{"id": "18690422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18690422", "title": "Arpège", "text": "Arpège\n\nArpège () is a 1927 perfume by Lanvin. It is considered to be one of the world's classic scents.\n\nThe fragrance has been referred to as the \"fragrance of 1000 flowers\" and its official name is a derivation of the musical term \"arpeggio\". In fact, the perfume contains some 60 floral essences. Like Chanel No.5, launched six years earlier, it is considered an aldehydic floral perfume.\n\nIt was created by perfumers André Fraysse and Paul Vacher for Jeanne Lanvin and presented to her musician daughter Marie-Blanche on her 30th birthday.\n\nThe original black bottle with a gold top was decorated with a gold illustration of Jeanne Lanvin and her daughter, created by French fashion illustrator Iribe.\n\nIn 1993, the perfume was reformulated by Hubert Fraysse, brother of André and founder of fragrance manufacturer Synarome.\n\nA special edition minaudière (evening bag) was launched in 2013 to mark the 85th birthday of the perfume.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31937838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31937838", "title": "Belen point", "text": "Belen point\n\nThe Belen point is an unfluted, lanceolate-shaped Paleoindian projectile point found in the central Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico. It is the second most prevalent Paleoindian point in the area after the Folsom point. It was named in the 1960s by Ele Baker after the town of Belen, New Mexico where the points were initially discovered.\n\nThe Belen point has not been dated, although it is known to be of the Paleoindian period and is likely similar in date to the Folsom point. It is believed that the Belen culture was active during the same period as that of the Folsom and campsites have been found which indicate that the cultures occupied the same locations. Although no examples of mixed campsites exist, multiple instances of sites appearing alongside each other have been observed. The Belen people used and manufactured tools of an identical nature to that of Folsom and other Paleoindian cultures such as scrapers and gravers all featuring points with ground lateral and proximal edges. The divergence between the artifacts of the Belen and Folsom peoples lies in the lithic material. Although, both used fine cryptocrystalline material, the Belen people used chert and jasper, locally sourced from the southeast of Belen, New Mexico, while Folsom used predominantly obsidian and chalcedony from Belen's northeast.\n"}
{"id": "1435179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1435179", "title": "Benoît-Constant Coquelin", "text": "Benoît-Constant Coquelin\n\nBenoît-Constant Coquelin (; 23 January 184127 January 1909), known as Coquelin aîné (\"Coquelin the Elder\"), was a French actor, \"one of the greatest theatrical figures of the age.\"\n\nCoquelin was born in Boulogne-sur-Mer, Pas-de-Calais. He was originally intended to follow his father's trade of baker (he was once called \"un boulanger manqué\" – \"a failed baker\" – by a hostile critic), but his love of acting led him to the Conservatoire, where he entered Régnier's class in 1859. He won the first prize for comedy within a year, and made his début on 7 December 1860 at the Comédie-Française as the comic valet, Gros-René, in Molière's \"Le Dépit amoureux\", but his first great success was as Figaro in \"The Barber of Seville\", in the following year. It was an honor for Coquelin to be a part of the Comédie-Française at such a young age. This company had already been in existence for around 150 years.\n\nHe was made \"sociétaire\" in 1864. There were 21 shares and they were divided among the lead actors, known as sociétaires. The sociétaires co-manage, choose plays, and share profits. When there was an opening caused by retirement, resignation, or death, it was filled by a member of the pensionnaires. And just four years after joining the Comédie-Française, Coquelin became one of the elite sociétaires. During the next twenty-two years he created at the Comédie Française the leading parts in forty-four new plays, including Théodore de Banville's \"Gringoire\" (1867), Paul Ferrier's \"Tabarin\" (1871), Émile Augier's \"Paul Forestier\" (1871), \"L'Étrangère\" (1876) by the younger Dumas, Charles Lomon's \"Jean Dacier\" (1877), Édouard Pailleron's \"Le Monde où l'on s'ennuie\" (1881), Erckmann's and Chatrian's \"Les Rantzau\" (1884).\n\nIn consequence of a dispute with the authorities over the question of his right to make provincial tours in France he resigned in 1886. Three years later, however, the breach was healed; and after a successful series of tours in Europe and the United States he rejoined the Comédie-Française as \"pensionnaire\" in 1890. During his time away from the Comédie he wrote his book \"Art and the Actor.\"\n\nIt was during this period that he took the part of Labussière, in the production of Victorien Sardou's \"Thermidor\", which was banned by the government after three performances. In 1892 he broke definitely with the Comédie-Française, and toured for some time through the capitals of Europe with a company of his own; in New York, for instance, he performed at Abbey's Theatre in 1894, playing the lead in \"Tartuffe\" (his son Jean played Orgon) and Mascarille in \"Les Précieuses ridicules\". In 1895 he joined the Renaissance theatre in Paris, and played there until he became director of the Théâtre de la Porte Saint-Martin in 1897. Here he won successes in Edmond Rostand's Cyrano de Bergerac (1897), which he repeated in the summer of 1898 at the Lyceum Theatre, London, Émile Bergerat's \"Plus que reine\" (1899), Catulle Mendès's \"Scarron\" (1905), and Alfred Capus and Lucien Descaves' \"L'Attentat\" (1906).\n\nIn 1900 Coquelin toured in America with Sarah Bernhardt, appeared on Broadway's Garden Theatre in a production of \"Cyrano de Bergerac\" (Bernhardt played Roxane). He made his only film, the duel scene from \"Cyrano de Bergerac\" with sound recording on phonograph cylinder (see also Sound film/Early steps). The film is thought to be the first ever made with both color and sound. On their return to France he continued with his old colleague to appear in \"L'Aiglon\", at the Théâtre Sarah Bernhardt. He was rehearsing for the creation of the leading part in Rostand's \"Chantecler\", which he was to produce, when he died suddenly in Paris in 1909. The \"New York Times\" printed an obituary, in which it described many tributes to the dead actor, including a visit by the personal secretary of the President of the Republic, Armand Fallières.\n\nCoquelin was an Officier de l'Instruction Publique and of the Legion of Honour. He published:\n\nHis brother, Ernest, and his son, Jean, were also actors.\n\n"}
{"id": "5365334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5365334", "title": "Catastrophe (drama)", "text": "Catastrophe (drama)\n\nIn drama, particularly the tragedies of classical antiquity, the catastrophe is the final resolution in a poem or narrative plot, which unravels the intrigue and brings the piece to a close. In comedies, this may be a marriage between main characters; in tragedies, it may be the death of one or more main characters. It is the final part of a play, following the protasis, epitasis, and catastasis.\n\nThe catastrophe is either simple or complex, for which also the fable and action are denominated. In a simple catastrophe, there is no change in the state of the main characters, nor any discovery or unravelling; the plot being only a mere passage out of agitation, to quiet and repose. This catastrophe is rather accommodated to the nature of the epic poem, than of the tragedy. \n\nIn a complex catastrophe, the main character undergoes a change of fortune, sometimes by means of a discovery, and sometimes without. The qualifications of this change are that it be probable and necessary: in order to be probable, it must be the natural result or effect of the foregoing actions, \"i.e.\" it must spring from the subject itself, or take its rise from the incidents, and not be introduced merely to serve a turn.\n\nThe \"discovery\" in a complex catastrophe must have the same qualifications as the catastrophe itself, of which it is a principal part: it must be both probable and necessary. To be probable, it must spring out of the subject itself; not affected by means of marks or tokens, rings, bracelets, or by a mere recollection, as is frequently done both in ancient and modern times. To be necessary, it must never leave the characters it concerns in the same sentiments they had before, but still produce either love or hatred, etc. Sometimes, the change consists in the discovery, sometimes it follows at a distance, and sometimes results immediately from it; the last was used, for example, in \"Oedipus Rex\".\n\nAmong critics, it has long been debated whether the catastrophe should always end happily, and favorably on the side of virtue, or not; \"i.e.\" whether virtue is always to be rewarded, and vice punished, in the catastrophe. Aristotle, for example, preferred a shocking catastrophe, rather than a happy one; in that regard, the moving of terror and pity, which is the aim of tragedy, is better effected by the former than the latter.\n\nRené Le Bossu, a 17th-century French critic, divides the catastrophe, at least with regards to epics, into the unravelling, or \"denouement\", and the finishing, or \"achievement\"; the latter of which he makes the result of the former, and to consist in the hero's passage out of a state of trouble and agitation, to rest and quiet. This period is but a point, without extent or duration; in which it differs from the former, which comprehends everything after the plot is laid. He adds, that there are several unravellings in a piece, each interconnected. The \"finishing\" is the end of the last unravelling.\n\nIn the twentieth century, J.R.R. Tolkien distinguished between what he called the \"catastrophe\" and the \"eucatastrophe\". The eucatastrophe is a classical catastrophe with an unexpected positive outcome for the protagonist. This term was coined to distance itself from the vernacular use of the word 'catastrophe' to signify disaster (which gave the term negative connotations in everyday usage).\n\n"}
{"id": "55991756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55991756", "title": "Claire Langhamer", "text": "Claire Langhamer\n\nClaire Louise Langhamer, FRHistS, is a social and cultural historian of modern Britain.\n\nAfter growing up in North Humberside, she attended the University of Manchester, graduating with a history degree in 1991. She subsequently completed her doctorate under the supervision of Dave Russell at the University of Central Lancashire; she was awarded her PhD in 1996 for her thesis \"Women and leisure in Manchester, 1920–c.1960\". In 1998, Langhamer started working as an academic at the University of Sussex and, as of 2017, is Professor of Modern British History there. She is also Director of Doctoral Studies in the School of History, Art History and Philosophy. As of 2017, she is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS).\n\nLanghamer's work has focused on the history of emotion, love, leisure and work in twentieth-century Britain, often in relation to the experiences of women. Alongside more than a dozen articles in peer-reviewed journals, Langhamer has published two books, \"Women's Leisure in England, 1920–1960\" (Manchester University Press, 2000) and \"The English in Love: The Intimate Story of an Emotional Revolution\" (Oxford University Press, 2013).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "885351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885351", "title": "Cotton mill", "text": "Cotton mill\n\nA cotton mill is a building housing spinning or weaving machinery for the production of yarn or cloth from cotton, an important product during the Industrial Revolution in the development of the factory system.\n\nAlthough some were driven by animal power, most early mills were built in rural areas at fast-flowing rivers and streams using water wheels for power. The development of viable steam engines by Boulton and Watt from 1781 led to the growth of larger, steam-powered mills allowing them to be concentrated in urban mill towns, like Manchester, which with neighbouring Salford had more than 50 mills by 1802.\n\nThe mechanisation of the spinning process in the early factories was instrumental in the growth of the machine tool industry, enabling the construction of larger cotton mills. Limited companies were developed to construct mills, and the trading floors of the cotton exchange in Manchester, created a vast commercial city. Mills generated employment, drawing workers from largely rural areas and expanding urban populations. They provided incomes for girls and women. Child labour was used in the mills, and the factory system led to organised labour. Poor conditions became the subject of exposés, and in England, the Factory Acts were written to regulate them.\n\nThe cotton mill, originally a Lancashire phenomenon, was copied in New England and later in the southern states of America. In the 20th century, North West England lost its supremacy to the United States, then to India and subsequently to China.\n\nIn the mid-16th century Manchester was an important manufacturing centre for woollens and linen and market for textiles made elsewhere. The fustian district of Lancashire, from Blackburn to Bolton, west to Wigan and Leigh and south towards Manchester, used flax and raw cotton imported along the Mersey and Irwell Navigation.\n\nDuring the Industrial Revolution cotton manufacture changed from a domestic to a mechanised industry, made possible by inventions and advances in technology. The weaving process was the first to be mechanised by the invention of John Kay's flying shuttle in 1733. The manually-operated spinning jenny was developed by James Hargreaves in about 1764 speeded up the spinning process. The roller spinning principle of Paul and Bourne became the basis of Richard Arkwright's spinning frame and water frame, patented in 1769. The principles of the spinning jenny and water frame were combined by Samuel Crompton in his spinning mule of 1779, but water power was not applied to it until 1792. Many mills were built after Arkwright's patent expired in 1783 and by 1788, there were about 210 mills in Great Britain. The development of cotton mills was linked to the development of the machinery they contained. By 1774, 30,000 people in Manchester were employed using the domestic system in cotton manufacture. Handloom weaving lingered into the mid-19th century but cotton spinning in mills relying on water power and subsequently steam power using fuel from the Lancashire Coalfield began to develop before 1800.\n\nThe first cotton mills were established in the 1740s to house roller spinning machinery invented by Lewis Paul and John Wyatt. The machines were the first to spin cotton mechanically \"without the intervention of human fingers\". They were driven by a single non-human power source which allowed the use of larger machinery and made it possible to concentrate production into organised factories. Four mills were set up to house Paul and Wyatt's machinery in the decade following its patent in 1738: the short-lived, animal-powered Upper Priory Cotton Mill in Birmingham in 1741; Marvel's Mill in Northampton operated from 1742 until 1764 and was the first to be powered by a water wheel; Pinsley Mill in Leominster probably opened in 1744 and operated until it burned down in 1754; and a second mill in Birmingham set up by Samuel Touchet in 1744, about which little is known, but which was sufficiently successful for Touchet later to seek the lease on the mill in Northampton. The Paul-Wyatt mills spun cotton for several decades but were not very profitable, becoming the ancestors of the cotton mills that followed.\n\nRichard Arkwright obtained a patent for his water frame spinning machinery in 1769. Although its technology was similar to that of Lewis Paul, John Wyatt, James Hargreaves and Thomas Highs, Arkwright's powers of organisation, business acumen and ambition established the cotton mill as a successful business model and revolutionary example of the factory system. Arkwright's first mill – powered by horses in Nottingham in 1768 – was similar to Paul and Wyatt's first Birmingham mill although by 1772 it had expanded to four storeys and employed 300 workers. In 1771, while the Nottingham mill was at an experimental stage, Arkwright and his partners started work on Cromford Mill in Derbyshire, which \"was to prove a major turning point in the history of the factory system\". It resembled the Paul-Wyatt water-powered mill at Northampton in many respects, but was built on a different scale, influenced by John Lombe's Old Silk Mill in Derby and Matthew Boulton's Soho Manufactory in Birmingham. Constructed as a five-storey masonry box; high, long and narrow, with ranges of windows along each side and large relatively unbroken internal spaces, it provided the basic architectural prototype that was followed by cotton mills and English industrial architecture through to the end of the 19th century.\n\nArkwright recruited large, highly disciplined workforces for his mills, managed credit and supplies and cultivated mass consumer markets for his products. By 1782 his annual profits exceeded £40,000, and by 1784 he had opened 10 more mills. He licensed his technology to other entrepreneurs and in 1782 boasted that his machinery was being used by \"numbers of adventurers residing in the different counties of Derby, Leicester, Nottingham, Worcester, Stafford, York, Hertford and Lancashire\" and by 1788 there were 143 Arkwright-type mills nationwide. The early mills were of light construction, narrow – about wide – and low in height, with ceiling heights of only 6–8 ft. The mills were powered by water wheels and lit by daylight. Mills were made by millwrights, builders and iron founders. By the end of the 18th century there were about 900 cotton mills in Britain, of which approximately 300 were large Arkwright-type factories employing 300 to 400 workers, the rest, smaller mills using jennies or mules, were hand- or horse-driven and employed as few as 10 workers.\n\nBefore 1780, only water power was available to drive large mills, but they were dependent on a constant flow of water and built in rural locations, causing problems of labour supply, transportation of materials and access to urban merchants for large mill-owners. Steam engines had been used to pump water since the invention of the atmospheric engine by Thomas Newcomen in 1712 and, starting with the engine installed at Arkwright's Haarlem Mill in Wirksworth, Derbyshire in 1780, were used to supplement the supply of water to the water wheels of cotton mills.\n\nIn 1781 James Watt registered a patent for the first rotative steam engine designed to \"give motion to the wheels of mills or other machines\". Concerns remained over the smoothness of the power supplied by a steam engine to cotton mills, where the regularity of the yarn produced was dependent on the regularity of the power supply, and it was not until 1785 at Papplewick, in Robinson's Mill near Nottingham that a steam engine was successfully used to drive a cotton mill directly. Boulton and Watt's engines enabled mills to be built in urban contexts and transformed the economy of Manchester, whose importance had previously been as a centre of pre-industrial spinning and weaving based on the domestic system. Manchester had no cotton mills until the opening of Arkwright's Shudehill Mill in 1783 and in 1789 Peter Drinkwater opened the Piccadilly Mill – the town's first mill to be directly powered by steam – and by 1800 Manchester had 42 mills, having eclipsed all rival textile centres to become the heart of the cotton manufacturing trade.\n\nWater continued to be used to drive rural mills but mills, driven by steam, were built in towns alongside streams or canals to provide water for the engine. Murrays' Mills alongside the Rochdale Canal, in Ancoats were powered by 40 hp Boulton and Watt beam engines.b Some were built as room and power mills, which let space to entrepreneurs. The mills, often 'L' or U-shaped, were narrow and multi-storeyed. The engine house, warehousing and the office were inside the mill, although stair towers were external. Windows were square and smaller than in later mills. The walls were of unadorned rough brick. Construction was sometimes to fireproof designs. The mills are distinguished from warehouses in that warehouses had taking-in doors on each storey with an external hoist beam. Only the larger mills have survived.\n\nMills of this period were from 25 to 68 m long and 11.5 m to 14 m wide. They could be eight storeys high and had basements and attics. Floor height varied from 3.3 to 2.75 m on the upper storeys.\n\nBoilers were of the wagon type; chimneys were square or rectangular, attached to the mill, and in some cases part of the stair column. The steam engines were typically low-pressure single-cylinder condensing beam engines. The average power in 1835 was 48 hp. Power was transmitted by a main vertical shaft with bevel gears to the horizontal shafts. The later mills had gas lighting using gas produced on site. The mules with 250–350 spindles were placed transversely to get as much light as possible.\n\nThe development of mills to mechanise the weaving process was more gradual partly because of the success of John Kay's 1733 invention of the flying shuttle, which increased the productivity of domestic hand loom weavers. Kay took out a patent for the application of water power to a Dutch loom in 1745 and opened a weaving factory in Keighley in 1750, but nothing is known of its success. A further attempt to mechanise the weaving process took place at Garrett Hall in Manchester in 1750 but was unsuccessful in enabling one worker to operate more than a single loom. The first feasible power loom was patented by Edmund Cartwright in 1785, although it was initially a primitive device it established the basic principle that would be used in powered weaving until the 20th century. In 1788 Cartwright opened Revolution Mill in Doncaster which was powered by a Boulton and Watt steam engine and had 108 power looms on three floors as well as spinning machinery, but it was not a commercial success and closed in 1790. A second mill using Cartwright's machinery, opened in Manchester in 1790 but was burned to the ground by hand loom weavers within two years. By 1803 there were only 2,400 power looms operating in Britain.\n\nIn the United States, the early horse-powered Beverly Cotton Manufactory was designed by Thomas Somers, who started construction and testing of the facility in 1787, finishing the factory's equipment in 1788. Experience from this factory led Moses Brown of Providence to request the assistance of a person skilled in water-powered spinning. Samuel Slater, an immigrant and trained textile worker from England, accepted Brown's proposal, and assisted with the design and construction of Slater Mill, built in 1790 on the Blackstone River in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. Slater evaded restrictions on emigration put in place to allow England to maintain its monopoly on cotton mills. Slater Mill resembled the Beverly Cotton Manufactory and a mill in Derbyshire in which he had worked.\n\nFrom 1825 the steam engine was able to power larger machines constructed from iron using improved machine tools. Mills from 1825 to 1865 were generally constructed with wooden beamed floors and lath and plaster ceilings. William Fairbairn experimented with cast iron beams and concrete floors. Mills were of red brick or sometimes local stone with a greater attention to decoration and the main gate was often highlighted with stone decoration. The stair columns were exterior to the main floors. During this period the mules got wider and the width of the bays increased. Specialised mill architects appeared. \nMills of this period were tall, narrow, and wide. They were commonly built with one or two wings to form an 'L' or 'U' shape. Brunswick Mill was a 28-bay mill, 6 storeys of 16 m by 92 m. Each self-acting spinning mule had 500 spindles. Single-storey north light weaving sheds were sometimes added to the mills. The looms caused vibrations that damaged the structure of multi-storey buildings, and specialised weaving mills became common. They were single-storey sheds with an engine house and offices, and preparation and warehousing in a two-storey ancillary building.\n\nLarge mills remained the exception during this period. In 1833 the largest mill was that of McConnel and Company in Ancoats, Manchester with 1,545 workers, but in 1841 there were still only 25 mills in Lancashire with 1,000 workers or more, and the number of workers in the average mill was 193.\n\nThe Lancashire boiler was patented in 1844, and the economiser in 1845. This can be seen as a square brick structure between the boiler house and the chimney. The engines were double compound upright beam engines of the type patented by McNaught in 1845. Each room in the mill would have line shafts suitable for the type of frame, connected by belt drives or gearing.\n\nIn 1860, there were 2650 cotton mills in the Lancashire region, employing 440,000 people. The workers, 90 per cent of whom were adults and 56 per cent females, were paid a total of ₤11.5 million per annum. The mills used 300,000 hp of power, of which 18,500 was generated by waterpower. The mills had 30,387,467 spindles and 350,000 power looms. The industry imported 1,390,938,752 lb of raw cotton a year. It exported 2,776,218,427 yards of cotton cloth and of twist and yarn. The total value of its exports was ₤32,012,380. \n\n1860 saw the end of this period of rapid growth. The Cotton Famine of 1861–1865 was a period when American long staple cotton became unavailable due to an American Civil War. After the war, the economics of the industry had changed, and a new larger mill was required.\n\nIn 1814 the Boston Manufacturing Company of New England established a \"fully integrated\" mill on the Charles River at Waltham, Massachusetts. Despite the ban on exporting technology from the UK, one of its proprietors, Francis Cabot Lowell, had travelled to Manchester to study the mill system and memorised some of its details. In the same year, Paul Moody built the first successful power loom in the US. Moody used a system of overhead pulleys and leather belting, rather than bevel gearing, to power his machines. The group devised the Waltham System of working, which was duplicated at Lowell, Massachusetts and several other new cities throughout the state. Mill girls, some as young as ten, were paid less than men, but received a fixed wage for their 73-hour week. They lived in company-owned boarding houses, and attended churches supported by the companies.\n\nIn the 1840s George Henry Corliss of Providence, Rhode Island improved the reliability of stationary steam engines. He replaced slide valves with valves that used cams. These Corliss valves were more efficient and more reliable than their predecessors. Initially, steam engines pumped water into a nearby reservoir that powered the water wheel, but were later used as the mill's primary power source. The Corliss valve was adopted in the UK, where in 1868 more than 60 mill engines were fitted with them.\n\nThe large steam-powered Bowreath Cotton Mills opened at Fort Gloster near Calcutta by British interests in the 1820s, using British women to impart machine-spinning skills to the local workforce. They closed down in 1837 but reopened with Dwarkanath Tagore as a major shareholder, and by 1840 lay at the centre of a major industrial complex powered by five steam engines, that included a twist mill, foundry and a rum distillery.\n\nJust before 1870, a mill was built by a joint-stock spinning company and this financial structure led to a new wave of mill construction. The phrase Oldham Limiteds describes these companies. Family-run firms continued to build, but grouped into associations such as the Fine Spinners' and Doublers' Association. Joseph Stott of Oldham perfected a method of fireproof floor construction using steel beams supporting brick vaults that in turn supported concrete floors that would support heavier equipment. Ring frames replaced mule frames; they were heavier and larger and were placed transversely, the floors became larger (up to wide) and higher to provide light. The bay size in a mill was defined by the positioning of machines. In an 1870 mill the bay was typically , and the brick vaults though there were variations.\n\nEngines were run at higher pressures and from 1875, powered horizontal shafts on each floor by means of ropes. This was a prominent change as a rope race had to be built running the height of the mill. The engine needed more space and the engine house, boiler house and economiser were external to the main mill. Mills continued to get bigger, and were sometimes paired; two mills being driven by one engine. Another change was the trend of having carding on one floor. To achieve this, the ground floor was extended outwards behind the mill often a full mill width. In a single mill, the crosswall divided the blowing room from the rest, as it was here that there was greatest risk of fire.\n\nMills became wider, Houldsworth Mill, Reddish (1865) was 35 m wide and accommodated 1200 spindle mules. It was of four storeys and had sixteen bays on each side of a central engine house; a double mill. The central block provided offices and warehousing. A mill had a range of ancillary buildings. Stair columns often extending above the mill and housed a water tank for the sprinkler system. The floors were higher allowing for taller windows. Accrington brick was used from 1890, decorated with yellow sandstone with moulded brick and terracotta features. Etched and stained glass was used in the offices. Mills were designed by specialist architects and architectural quality became a major consideration.\n\nThe power needed and provided to drive these mills was increasing. Beam engines were installed until the 1870s when horizontal engines took over. Abbey Mill Oldham (1876) needed 700 hp, Nile Mill (1896) needed 2500 hp. By the 1890, boilers produced 160 psi, and the triple expansion horizontals became standard. Chimneys were octagonal.\n\nFollowing the American Civil War, mills grew larger. They were built in the southern states of South Carolina, Alabama, and Mississippi where cheap labour and plentiful water power made operations profitable. Cotton could be processed into fabric where it grew, saving transportation costs. The mills were usually combination mills, (spinning and weaving) that were water powered and used a slow burn design technique. They used a belt and pulley drive system, and heavier ring frames rather than mules. At this point they only spun and wove coarse counts. The mills were mainly in open country and mill towns were formed to support them. New England mills found it increasingly difficult to compete, and as in Lancashire, went into gradual decline until bankrupted during the Great Depression. Cotton mills and their owners dominated the economy and politics of the Piedmont well into the 20th century. \n\nThe modern Indian mechanised textile industry was born in 1854, when a steam-powered mill was opened in Bombay by Cowasjee N. Davar.{ More followed: there were 10 by 1865 and 47 by 1875. By 1880 there were 58 mills in India employing 40,000 workers, with over 80% of them in the cities of Bombay and Ahmedabad.\n"}
{"id": "17179866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17179866", "title": "Cú Choigcríche Ó Cléirigh", "text": "Cú Choigcríche Ó Cléirigh\n\nCú Choigcríche Ó Cléirigh (fl. 1624–1664) was an Irish historian and genealogist, known in English as Peregrine O'Clery.\n\nÓ Cléirigh was a son of Diarmaid Ó Cléirigh, and thus a third-cousin once removed to Brother Mícheál Ó Cléirigh, whom he assisted in compiling the \"Annals of the Four Masters\".\n\nHowever, Paul Walsh believed him to be a son of Diarmad mac An Chosnamghaigh mac Concoigríche mac Diarmada Ó Cléirigh, who died in 1552. This Diarmaid was a brother of Tuthal (died 1512) and Giolla Riabhach (died 1527). Mícheál Ó Cléirigh was the son of Donnchaidh, a son of Uilliam son of Tuathail Ó Cléirigh, who died in 1512. The first modern-day editor of the annals, John O'Donovan, believed that Ó Cléirigh was the son of the poet and historian Lughaidh Ó Cléirigh, although this has since been disputed.\n\nAlong with Brother Mícheál, Ó Cléirigh transcribed the years 1332-1608 in the annals. The earliest copy of Lughaidh Ó Cléirigh's life of Aodh Ruadh Ó Domhnaill is in his handwriting. He also wrote a poem on Mary, sister of Red Hugh O'Donnell, who died in 1662, which is now among the Phillips Manuscripts at the National Library of Ireland.\n\nHe seems to have given material to Dubhaltach MacFhirbhisigh, which the latter inserted on page 299 of Leabhar na nGenealach\n\nHis own principal work is the compilation known as the O'Clery Book of Genealogies.\n\nHe died at Gortnaheltia, in the valley of Glenhest at the foot of Nephin Beg, overlooking Lough Beltra. He bequeathed his books to his sons Diarmaid and Seaán.\n\nIt is believed that Cú Choigcríche's descendants are the Cleary and Clarke families of Brackleagh, Glenhest, Burrishoole, County Mayo.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4051392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4051392", "title": "Deglobalization", "text": "Deglobalization\n\nDeglobalization or Deglobalisation is the process of diminishing interdependence and integration between certain units around the world, typically nation-states. It is widely used to describe the periods of history when economic trade and investment between countries decline. It stands in contrast to globalization, in which units become increasingly integrated over time, and generally spans the time between periods of globalization. While globalization and deglobalisation are antitheses, they are no mirror images\n\nThe term of deglobalization has derived from some of the very profound change in many developed nations, where trade as a proportion of total economic activity until the 1970s was below previous peak levels in the early 1910s. This decline reflects that their economies become less integrated with the rest of the world economies in spite of the deepening scope of economic globalization. At the global level only two longer periods of deglobalization occurred, namely in the 1930s during the Great Depression and 2010s, when following the Great Trade Collapse the period of the World Trade Slowdown set in. \n\nThe occurrence of deglobalization has strong proponents who have claimed the death of globalisation, but is also contested by leading academics such as Michael Bordo who argues that it is too soon to give a good diagnosis and Mervyn Martin who argues that US and UK policies are rational answers to essential temporary problems of even strong nations\n\nWhile as with globalization, deglobalization can refer to economic, trade, social, technological, cultural and political dimensions, much of the work that has been conducted in the study of deglobalization refers to the field of international economics.\n\nPeriods of deglobalization have mainly been seen as interesting comparators to other periods, such as 1850–1914 and 1950–2007, in which globalization had been the norm, given that globalization is the norm for most people and because the interpretation of the global economy has mainly been framed as inevitably increasing integration. Therefore, even periods of stagnant international interaction are often wrongly seen as periods of deglobalization. Recently scientists, have started to also compare the major periods of deglobalization in order to better understand drivers and consequences of this phenomenon. The two major phases of deglobalisation are not identical twins.The two phases of deglobalisation were equally triggered by a demand shock in the wake of a financial crisis. Both in the 1930s and in the 2000s the composition of trade was a second key determinant: manufacturing trade bore the brunt of the contraction. One important finding is that country experiences both during the Great Depression and Great Recession are very heterogeneous so that one-size-fits-all policies to counter negative impacts of deglobalization are inappropriate. In the 1930s, democracies supported free trade, and deglobalisation was driven by autocratic decisions to strengthen self-sufficiency. In the 2010s, political institutions are just as significant, but now democratic decisions such as the election of President Trump with an America First agenda and Brexit drive the deglobalisation process worldwide. Indeed, while the industrialised countries in the 2010s avoided the pitfalls of protectionism and deflation, they have experienced different political dynamics.\n\nAs with globalization, economic deglobalization can be measured in different ways. These centre around the four main economic flows:\nIt is generally not thought possible to measure deglobalization through lack of flows of technology, the fourth main flow. \nThose areas that are measurable do suggest other possible measures, including:\n\nThe multi-dimensional globalization index of KOF Swiss Economic Institute shows a clear break for economic globalization in 2009 in 2015 KOF observed for its overall index: \"The level of globalisation worldwide increased rapidly between 1990 and 2007 and has risen only slightly since the Great Recession. In 2015, globalisation decreased for the first time since 1975. The fall was due to the decline in economic globalisation, with social globalisation stagnating and political globalisation increasing slightly.\"\nOther indicators of deglobalization include the development of Foreign Direct Investment, that according to UNCTAD slipped further in 2017 and in stark contrast with production.\n\nTypically a reduction of the level of international integration of economies (and the world economy at large) are expected to exert second round effects related to four feedback mechanisms:\n\nDeglobalization has also been used as a political agenda item or a term in framing the debate on a new World economic order, for example by Walden Bello in his 2005 book \"Deglobalization\".\nOne of the prominent examples of deglobalization movement could be found in the United States of America, where the Bush and Obama administration instituted Buy American Act clause as party of massive stimulus package, which was designed to favor American-made goods over traded goods. Likewise, the EU has imposed new subsidies to protect their agricultural sectors for their own protection. These movements of deglobalization can be seen as the example of how developed nations react to the Financial crisis of 2007–08 through deglobalization movements.\nRecently a change in the pattern of anti-globalism has been observed: anti-globalism now has a strong foothold in the Global North and among right-wing (conservative) politicians, with much different attitudes in the Global South, particular among the BRICS countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2705429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2705429", "title": "Delphin Classics", "text": "Delphin Classics\n\nThe Delphin Classics was an edition of the Latin classics, intended to be comprehensive, which was originally created in the 17th century.\n\nThe 25 volumes were created in the 1670s for Louis, \"le Grand Dauphin\", heir of Louis XIV (\"Delphin\" is the adjective derived from \"dauphin\"), and were written in Latin. Thirty-nine scholars contributed to the series, which was edited by Pierre Huet with assistance from several co-editors, including Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet and Anne Dacier. Each work was accompanied by a Latin commentary, \"ordo verborum\", and verbal index. The editors added many notes and appendixes.\n\nThe original volumes each had an engraving of Arion and the Dolphin, accompanied by the inscription \"in usum serenissimi Delphini\" (for the use of the most serene Dauphin).\n\nBeginning in 1819 a series of Latin classics was published in England under the name Delphin Classics by Abraham John Valpy. This series was edited by George Dyer (poet), who produced 143 volumes. They are no longer current.\n\nThere is a reference to them in Part I, Chapter 5 of Thomas Hardy's \"Jude the Obscure\", where young Jude, trying to educate himself by reading while delivering bread from a horse and cart, \"plunge[s] into the simpler passages from Caesar, Virgil, or Horace [. . .] The only copies he had been able to lay hands on were old Delphin editions, because they were superseded, and therefore cheap. But, bad for idle school-boys, it did so happen that they were passably good for him.\"\n"}
{"id": "19792279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19792279", "title": "Diocletian window", "text": "Diocletian window\n\nDiocletian windows, also called thermal windows, are large semicircular windows characteristic of the enormous public baths (\"thermae\") of Ancient Rome. They have been revived on a limited basis by some classical revivalist architects in more modern times.\n\nDiocletian windows are large segmental arched windows (or other openings) which are usually divided into three lights (window compartments) by two vertical mullions. The central compartment is often wider than the two side lights on either side of it.\n\nDiocletian windows are named after the windows found in the Thermae (Baths) of Diocletian (AD 302) in Rome. (The Thermae is now the church of Santa Maria degli Angeli e dei Martiri.) The variant name, thermal window, also comes from their association with the Thermae of Diocletian.\n\nThis type of window was revived and used in Italy in the 16th century, especially by Andrea Palladio. Palladio and others incorporated an elongated Diocletian window in the form of an arched central light flanked by narrower, square-headed apertures. This combination became known as a Palladian, or Venetian, window.\n\nThe Diocletian window was much used in the early 18th century by the English architect Richard Boyle, 3rd Earl of Burlington, one of the originators of the English Palladian style, and by his followers.\n\nDiocletian windows continued to be used occasionally in large public buildings in the various devolutions of neoclassical architecture including the Beaux Arts movement (1880–1920).\n\n"}
{"id": "159387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159387", "title": "Dionysius of Halicarnassus", "text": "Dionysius of Halicarnassus\n\nDionysius of Halicarnassus (, , \"Dionysios son of Alexandros of Halikarnassos\"; c. 60 BCafter 7 BC) was a Greek historian and teacher of rhetoric, who flourished during the reign of Caesar Augustus. His literary style was Atticistic — imitating Classical Attic Greek in its prime.\n\nDionysius' opinion of the necessity of a promotion of paideia within education, from true knowledge of Classical sources, endured for centuries in a form integral to the identity of the Greek elite.\n\nHe was a Halicarnassian. At some time he moved to Rome after the termination of the civil wars, and spent twenty-two years studying Latin and literature and preparing materials for his history. During this period, he gave lessons in rhetoric, and enjoyed the society of many distinguished men. The date of his death is unknown. In the 19th century, it was commonly supposed that he was the ancestor of Aelius Dionysius of Halicarnassus.\n\nHis major work, entitled (, Roman Antiquities), embraced the history of Rome from the mythical period to the beginning of the First Punic War. It was divided into twenty books, of which the first nine remain entire, the tenth and eleventh are nearly complete, and the remaining books exist in fragments in the excerpts of the Roman emperor Constantine Porphyrogenitus and an epitome discovered by Angelo Mai in a Milan manuscript. The first three books of Appian, Plutarch's \"Life of Camillus\" and \"Life of Coriolanus\" also embody much of Dionysius.\n\nHis chief object was to reconcile the Greeks to the rule of Rome, by dilating upon the good qualities of their conquerors and also by arguing, using more ancient sources, that the Romans were genuine descendants of the older Greeks. According to him, history is philosophy teaching by examples, and this idea he has carried out from the point of view of a Greek rhetorician. But he carefully consulted the best authorities, and his work and that of Livy are the only connected and detailed extant accounts of early Roman history.\n\nDionysius was also the author of several rhetorical treatises, in which he shows that he has thoroughly studied the best Attic models:\n\nThe last two treatises are supplemented by letters to Gn. Pompeius and Ammaeus (two, one of which is about Thucydides).\n\n\"Dionysian imitatio\" is the literary method of imitation as formulated by Dionysius, who conceived it as the rhetorical practice of emulating, adapting, reworking, and enriching a source text by an earlier author.\n\nDionysius' concept marked a significant departure from the concept of \"mimesis\" formulated by Aristotle in the 4th century BC, which was only concerned with \"imitation of nature\" and not \"imitation of other authors.\" Latin orators and rhetoricians adopted Dionysius' method of \"imitatio\" and discarded Aristotle's \"mimesis\".\n\nDionysius is one of the primary sources for the accounts of the Roman foundation myth and the myth of Romulus and Remus. He was heavily relied upon for the later publications of Livy and Plutarch. He writes extensively on the myth, sometimes attributing direct quotations to its figures. The myth spans the first 2 volumes of his \"Roman Antiquities\", beginning with Book I chapter 73 and concluding in Book II chapter 56. \n\nDionysius claims that the twins were born to a vestal named Ilia Silvia (sometimes called Rea). Her family descends from Aeneas of Troy and the daughter of King Latinus of the Original Latin tribes. Procas, her grandfather had willed the throne to his son Numitor but he was later deposed by her uncle, Amulius. For fear of the threat that Numitor's heirs might pose, the king had Ilia's brother, Aegestus killed and blamed robbers. The truth about the crime was known by some, including Numitor, who feigned ignorance. Amulius then appointed Ilia to the Vestal priestesshood, where her vow of chastity would prevent her from producing any further male rivals. Despite this, she became pregnant a few years later, claiming to have been raped.\n\nThe different accounts of the twins' conception are laid out, but Dionysius declines to choose one over the others. The sources variously relate that it was a suitor, Amulius himself (in full armor to conceal his identity), or even the god Mars himself. The latter is supposed to have comforted Ilia by making her grieve, and telling her that she would bear twins whose bravery and triumphs would be unmatched. Ilia hid her pregnancy with claims of illness so as to avoid her vestal duties. Amulius suspected her and employed physicians and his wife to monitor her for signs of being with child. When he did discover the truth, she was placed under armed guard. After being informed of the delivery of the twins, Amulius suspected that she had in fact given birth to triplets. The third child had been concealed from the guards present. Ilia was either put to death, or kept secretly in a hidden dungeon for the rest of her life.\n\nCiting Fabius, Cincius, Porcius Cato, and Piso, Dionysius recounts the most common tale. The king orders the twins to be tossed into the Tiber. When his servants arrived at the riverbank, high waters had made it impossible to reach the stream. They left the twin's basket in a pool of standing water on the site of the ficus Ruminalis. After the waters of the Tiber had carried the twins away, their basket is overturned by a rock and they are dumped into the mud. A she-wolf finds them there and nurses them in front of her lair (the \"Lupercal\"). Plutarch places the Lupercal as at the foot of Palantine hill along the road to the Roman chariot grounds and was the source of a natural spring.\n\nThe twins were discovered by unnamed herdsmen, and when they arrive, the she-wolf calmly retreats into the cave. Faustulus, the man in charge of the royal abattoir, happened upon the scene. He had heard the story of Ilia's twin birth and the king's order, but never let on that he suspected the foundlings were one and the same. He persuaded the shepherds to allow him to take the boys home, and brought them to his wife, who had just delivered a stillborn child. Later, quoting Fabius' account of the overthrow of Amulius, Dionysius claims that Faustulus had saved the basket in which the boys had been abandoned. \n\nAs they grew, the boys exhibited the graces and behavior of the royal-born. They passed their days living as herdsmen in the mountains, spending many nights in huts of reeds and sticks.\n\norphan footnote.\n\nDionysius relates an alternate, \"non-fantastical\" version of Romulus and Remus' birth, survival and youth. In this version, Numitor managed to switch the twins at birth with two other infants. The twins were delivered by their grandfather to Faustulus to be fostered by him and his wife. Faustulus was descended from the first Greek colonists in Latium. He was the caretaker for Amulius' holdings around Palatine hill. He was persuaded to care for the twins by his brother Faustinus, who tended the kings herds on nearby Aventine hill.\n\nTheir adopted mother was Faustulus' wife Laurentia, a former prostitute. According to Plutarch, \"lupa\"(Latin for \"wolf\") was a common term for members of her profession and this gave rise to the she-wolf legend. The twins receive a proper education in the city of Gabii.\n\nAccording to Fabius, when the twins were 18, they became embroiled in a violent disputes with some of Numitor's herdsmen. In retaliation, Remus was lured into an ambush and capture while Romulus was elsewhere. In Aelius Tubero's version, the twins were taking part in the festivities of the Lupercalia, requiring them to run naked through the village when Remus, defenseless as he was, was taken prisoner by Numitor's armed men.\n\nAfter rounding up the toughest herdsmen to help him free Remus, Romulus rashly set out for Alba Longa. To avoid tragedy, Faustulus intercepted him and revealed the truth about the twins' parentage. With the discovery that Numitor was family, Romulus sets his sights on Amulius, instead. He and the rest of his village set out in small groups toward the city so that their arrival will go unnoticed by the guards. Meanwhile, after being turned over to Numitor to determine his punishment, Remus was told of his origins by the former king and eagerly joins with him in their own effort to topple Amulius. When Romulus joined them at Numitor's home, the three of them began to plan their next move.\n\nBack home, Faustulus had begun to worry about how the twins' claims will be heard in Alba. He decides to bolster them by bringing the basket in which they were abandoned to the city. He's stopped by suspicious guards at the gates and he and the basket are seen by none-other-than the servant who had taken them to the river those many years before. Under the questioning of the king, and after the king's insincere offers of benevolence toward his nephews, Faustulus, trying to protect Romulus and Remus, and escape the king's clutches, claimed he had been bringing the basket to the imprisoned Ilia at the twins request and that they were at the moment tending their flocks in the mountains.\n\nAmulius sent Faustulus and his men to find the boys. He then tried to trick Numitor into coming to the palace so that the former king could be kept under guard until the situation had been dealt with. Unfortunately for the king, the man he sent to lure Numitor into his clutches instead revealed everything that had happened at the palace.\n\nThe twins and their grandfather led their joint supporters to the palace, killed Amulius, and took control of the city.\n\nPlutarch continues the same alternate version of the twins' parentage and youth. After the boys had returned home from their studies in Gabii, Numitor has the twins attack his own herdsmen and drive off his own cattle to contrive a complaint against his brother. To placate him, Amulius ordered not only the twins to be brought to the palace for trial, but all the others who were present, as well. This is exactly what Numitor had hoped for. When Romulus and Remus arrived in Alba, their grandfather revealed their true identity and he, the twins and the other herdsmen joined forces to attack Amulius, apparently killing him.\n\nThe now re-installed King Numitor granted Romulus and Remus control over the area around where Rome would be founded, and sent some of Alba Longa's commoners and nobles along with them. These included volunteers as well as his enemies, and other troublemakers and fifty families of the descendants of the Greeks who had settled in Italy after the Trojan War. The commoners were given provisions, weapons, slaves and livestock.\n\nWanting to use competition to better complete the many tasks ahead of them, each twin took command of half of the new group of colonists and natives. Instead, the two groups each wanted their twin to be king. Eventually, both Romulus and Remus began to harbor their own ambitions of being the sole ruler of the new city. Things came to a head when a dispute broke out over the particular hill upon which Rome should be built. Romulus wanted to build on Palatine Hill for its significance to their childhood. Remus chose Aventine Hill for its strategic advantages. Finally, with no resolution in site, they took the matter to Numitor. He told each twin to stake out a spot on an appointed morning at dawn and wait for a \"bird omen\" from the gods to settle things.\n\nThey took his suggestion and the two brothers took their positions along with guard to prevent cheating. No birds appeared to Romulus, but he tried to trick Remus by sending a message that he should come to him right away. Ashamed, the messengers took their time, and while en route, Remus saw 6 vultures. The messengers brought Remus back to his brother and when they arrived, Romulus was asked what type of bird he had seen (apparently owing to the ruse). Unsure, Romulus was suddenly saved by the sudden arrival of 12 vultures. He dismissed his brother's query and declared himself the winner. Furious Remus refused to accept defeat. This reignited the conflict between them.\n\nOutwardly, each twin acknowledged the other's claim to having won: Remus by seeing the vultures first, and Romulus by seeing more of them. Privately, however, neither was willing to give in. An armed battle broke out between their followers resulting in deaths among both. Faustulus was so distraught over his inability to end the strife between his adopted sons that he threw himself into the middle of the fighting and was killed. Remus also fell. Romulus was devastated at his personal losses as well as the many suffered by the twins' followers. Only after the intervention of Laurentia was he able to return to the job of founding the city.\n\nOther sources who are unnamed by Plutarch claimed that despite his anger over Romulus' conduct during the contest of the augury, Remus conceded and the construction of the city began on Palatine Hill. Out of resentment, he derided the city's newly-built walls and demonstrated their ineffectiveness by leaping over them, saying that an enemy of Romulus could do the same. In response, Celer, the job's foreman, killed him on the spot with a blow to the head and implied that Remus himself had become his brother's enemy.\n\nBefore construction on the city began Romulus made sacrifices and received good omens, and he then ordered the populace to ritually atone for their guilt. The city's fortifications were first and then housing for the populace. He assembles the people and gives them the choice as to what type of government they want. After his address, which extols Bravery in war abroad, and moderation at home, and in which Romulus denies any need to remain in power, the people decide to remain a kingdom and ask him to remain its king. Before accepting he looks for a sign of the approval of the gods. He prays, and witnesses an auspicious lightning bolt, after which he declares that no king shall take the throne without receiving approval from the gods.\n\nHe divides Rome into 3 tribes, each selected a Tribune in charge of each. Each tribe was divided into 10 Curia, and each of those into smaller units. He divided the kingdoms land holdings between them. Plutarch suggests that Athenian institutions were the inspiration for Romulus' creation of the Patrician class from the wealthy and virtuous. All other Romans formed the Plebeian class. The Patricians were put in charge of religious, legal and civil institutions, while the Plebs were to be farmers, herders and \ntradesmen. Each curiae was responsible for provided soldiers in the event of war.\n\nTo maintain order, every pleb had the right to choose a Patrician in a system of patronage (\"clientela\"). All patrons (\"patronus\") were required to protect the rights and interests of those plebs (\"cliens\") beneath them. In return all plebs were required to support his patron in his endeavors and assist him when needed. It was illegal for either party to testify against one another or otherwise act against the interests of the other. Romulus then proceeded to establish the senate. Another act that Dionysius attributes to Greek influence. He selected 300 of the strongest and fittest among the nobles to become his personal bodyguard and messengers. The \"celeres\" were so-named either for their quickness, or, according to Valerius Antias, for their commander. These were the first Roman cavalry and were instrument in many Roman victories.\n\nRomulus then delimited the various powers of the institutions he had created. The Roman king was made the ultimate authority in all religious and legal matters. He would personally hear the cases of \"the greatest crimes\" but after reaching a decision, his opinion would be subject to approval by the people. He would be the commander in chief of the military in wartime.\n\nThe senate would have the power to decide any matter or issue brought to them by the king with a binding vote (attributed by Dionysius to the Lacedaemonians. The popular assemblies had the power to elect magistrates, pass laws and declare war at the king's discretion.\n\nRomulus passed laws meant to encourage child-rearing. He welcomed free men of any background to settle in the new city with promises of citizenship and an offer of protection from those from home who might be pursuing them. Immigrants flocked to Rome as a result. Rome would also benefit from their practice of sending colonists to newly conquered cities and allowing the subjugated to carry on as they had before. More common in the Greek world was to treat those they defeated harshly. Rome grew 10 times during Romulus' reign.\n\nIn an extensive exploration of the various, lurid traditions of the day, Dionysius effusively praises the manner in which Romulus' organized and established Rome's religious customs and practices. He attributes to the king everything from the founding of temples, to defining the sphere of individual gods, their festivals and the blessings they would each bestow. Among the Greek and native traditions, he kept only those he deemed worthy and rejected any that were too unseemly or otherwise unfit for Roman society.\n\nAccording to Terentius Varro, Romulus appointed a large number of Roman men and women to religious office during his reign. He also allowed the various curia to select their own. He adopted the Greek practice of appointing children to participate in the city's ceremonies. He established an office of augury, who would ensure the approval of the gods during all worship undertaken. Each curia was required to sacrifice and give offerings in a way so specified. He established budgets for religious practice in the city.\n\nAgain, Dionysius thoroughly describes the laws of other nations before contrasting the approach of Romulus and lauding his work. The Roman law governing marriage is, according to his \"Antiquities\" an elegant yet simple improvement over that of other nations, most of which he harshly derides. By declaring that wives would share equally in the possessions and conduct of their husband, Romulus promoted virtue in the former and deterred mistreatment by the latter. Wives could inherit upon their husband's birth. A wife's adultery was a serious crime, however, drunkenness could be a mitigating factor in determining the appropriate punishment. Because of his laws, Dionysius claims, not a single Roman couple divorced for the next 5 centuries. His laws governing parental rights, in particular those that allow fathers to maintain power over their adult children were an improvement over those of others.\n\nUnder the laws of Romulus, native-born free Roman's were limited to two forms of employment: farming and the army. All other occupations were filled by slaves or non-Roman labor.\n\nRomulus used the trappings of his office, to encourage compliance with the law. His court was imposing and filled with loyal soldiers and he was always accompanied by the 12 lictors appointed to be his attendants.\n\nAccording to Gnaeus Gellius, in Romulus' fourth year in power, the recently founded city of Rome, its population swollen with immigrants found itself surrounded by unfriendly neighbors and short of marriageable women. Romulus sought to solve both problems through intermarrying with the other cities in the region, but he was rebuffed. His solution having been approved by his grandfather, received the auspices of the gods, and the support of the senate began with the announcement of a spectacular festival and competitions to honor the god Neptune, and to which all of Rome's neighbors were welcome. They came from far and wide, sometimes entire families, to attend and participate.\n\nOn the king's signal, Romans began abducting the young women in attendance much to the shock and horror of their guests. Later, the women are brought before him where he assures them that he and the other men of Rome intend to honorably marry them and that they won't be sexually exploited in any way. This eases their fears.\n\nThe cities of Caenina, Crustumerium, and Antemnae petition Tatius, king of the Sabines to lead a joint attack in response to the kidnappings. Their goal was stymied by Rome's own diplomatic efforts and the other three cities eventually concluded that Tatius was delaying any action on purpose. They decided to attack Rome without the Sabines and their armies are defeated and their cities captured each in turn.\n\nThe wars that resulted from the mass abduction committed by the Romans came to a climax in an epic battle fought at the foot of the Capitoline Hill. After the Sabines had captured the Roman Citadel through guile, they occupied the most strategically important point in the city with the help, knowing or otherwise, of Tarpeia. After several skirmishes and minor engagements, the armies fought two pitched battles featuring valor and losses to both sides.\nIn the course of the battle, both sides found themselves on the verge of defeat, only to turn the tide back in the nick of time. Romulus himself was injured by a rock to the head. The fighting ceased only by the coming of dusk. Afterwards, the Sabine women, led by the noble Hersilia, convinced the two kings to make peace.\n\nAfter a ceasefire, the nations agreed to become a single kingdom under the joint rule of Romulus and Tatius. The city was expanded and its institutions were adjusted to accommodate the new increase in population and to demonstrate their mutual good will. The joint kingship lasted for four years until the death of Tatius. During this time they conquered the Camerini and made their city a Roman colony.\n\nThe two peoples are merged under a joint throne with Rome as the capital. The Sabines and Romans alike were then declared \"Quirites\", from the Sabine city of Cures. To honor the Sabine women, when Romulus divided the city into 30 local councils, he named them after the women. He also recruits three new units of knights and called them Ramnenses Tatiensis (from the two kings names).\n\nSome of Tatius' friends victimized some Laurentii and when the city sent ambassadors to demand justice, Tatius would not allow Romulus hand over the perpetrators over to them. A group of Sabines waylay the ambassadors as they sleep on the way home. Some escape and when word gets back to Rome, Romulus promptly turns the men respsonsible—including one of Tatius' family members—over to a new group of ambassadors. Tatius follows the group out of the city and frees the accused men by force. Later, while both kings are participating in a sacrifice in Lavinium he is killed in retribution.\n\nThe account of Licinius Macer recounts that Tatius was killed when he went alone to try and convince the victims in Lavinium to forgive the crimes committed. When they discovered he had not brought the men responsible with him, as the senate and Romulus had ordered, an angry mob stones him to death.\n\nAfter his rule had turned more dictatorial, Romulus met his end. Either through actions divine or earthly. According to some reports, Romulus is swept up into heaven, where he takes his place among the gods as Quirinus. Others point to the hands of the nobility, who had grown ever more resentful of their treatment by king.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26532555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26532555", "title": "Enemy Belligerent Interrogation, Detention, and Prosecution Act of 2010", "text": "Enemy Belligerent Interrogation, Detention, and Prosecution Act of 2010\n\nThe Enemy Belligerent Interrogation, Detention, and Prosecution Act of 2010 (S. 3081) is a bill introduced by United States Senator John McCain, sponsored by Joe Lieberman and eight other Republican senators. Its counterpart in the House is H.R. 4892, introduced by Howard McKeon (R-CA).\n\nIn introducing the bill on the Senate floor, McCain said:\nThis legislation seeks to ensure that the mistakes made during the apprehension of the Christmas Day bomber, such as reading him a Miranda warning, will never happen again and put Americans’ security at risk.\n\nAccording to the legal news service \"JURIST\" both the American Civil Liberties Union and Republican Senator Lindsey Graham expressed concerns over the proposed bill.\nAccording to the bill's official summary, the bill requires that any person who is arrested on suspicion of terrorism against the United States or its coalition partners be placed in military custody for the purposes of initial interrogation and determination of status as an \"unprivileged enemy belligerent\". Such determination is to be made within 48 hours.\n\nThe bill proceeds to define an \"unprivileged enemy belligerent\" as an individual who: \n\nThe bill authorizes the President to establish a \"high-value detainee interrogation group\" consisting of executive branch personnel with expertise in national security, terrorism, intelligence, interrogation, or law enforcement to perform the interrogation and status determination.\n\nThe bill defines that the paramount purpose of such interrogations is the protection of U.S. civilians and facilities through thorough and professional interrogation for intelligence purposes. It further prohibits the use of Department of Justice (DOJ) appropriated funds to prosecute an unprivileged enemy belligerent in an Article III court.\n\nFinally, the bill allows for the detention of a person who is deemed to be an unprivileged enemy belligerent without criminal charges or trial for the duration of hostilities against the United States or its coalition partners in which the individual has engaged or which the individual has purposely and materially supported.\n\nS.3081 was co-sponsored in the Senate by:\n\n"}
{"id": "38707343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38707343", "title": "Estonian Institute of Historical Memory", "text": "Estonian Institute of Historical Memory\n\nThe Estonian Institute of Historical Memory (Estonian: \"Eesti Mälu Instituut\") is an international organization with the aim to investigate international crimes and human rights violations committed by hostile regimes, research the totalitarian ideologies that created such regimes and inform the general public about the research results both in Estonia and internationally. With its research results and awareness-raising about the hostile regimes and ideologies of the past and the international crimes and human rights violations they committed, the foundation helps to take a stance against hostile regimes also in the 21 century. \n\nThe establishment of the Institute was initiated by the Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves in 2008. The Institute was established by Leon Glikman, Rein Kilk, Jaan Manitski, Tiit Sepp, Hannes Tamjärv and Indrek Teder. The aim of the Institute was set to give the Estonian citizens a comprehensive and objective overview of the state of human rights in Estonia during the Soviet occupation. \n\nIn its structure, the Estonian Institute of Historical Memory was similar to the Estonian International Commission for Investigation of Crimes Against Humanity (), founded by President Lennart Meri in 1998, which investigated the crimes against humanity committed in Estonia during the German and Soviet occupations based on the definitions for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes of the 1998 Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The Estonian Institute of Historical Memory surpasses the frames set upon the research of the Estonian International Commission for Investigation of Crimes Against Humanity and also collects data about such human rights violations committed during the Soviet occupation that are not crimes against humanity by legal definition. For this reason, The Estonian Institute of Historical Memory selected the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948 as the legal basis for its historical research. \n\nThe Institute has researched life during the Soviet time in detail and also supported collecting memories to define precisely and without ideological prejudices how and to which extent human rights were violated in Estonia. It is also the responsibility of the Institute to help Estonian citizens develop a better understanding of what they themselves or their parents and grandparents had to endure during the Soviet occupation.\n\nIn 2017, the Institute merged with the Unitas Foundation into a new organization that combines academic research concerning anti-human regimes (previously the responsibility of the Estonian Institute of Historical Memory) with awareness-raising (previously the responsibility of the Unitas Foundation). The new organization continues with the name \"The Estonian Institute of Historical Memory\".\n\nThe Institute is a member institution of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience. \n\n"}
{"id": "48249165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48249165", "title": "Exploring Solutions Past: the Maya Forest Alliance", "text": "Exploring Solutions Past: the Maya Forest Alliance\n\nExploring Solutions Past: the Maya Forest Alliance is a nonprofit organization focused on preserving the Maya forest as a cultural resource for global significance. Exploring Solutions Past suggests that environmentally based indigenous practices might improve contemporary problems such as conservation and resource abundance. This organization combines the efforts of different fields and groups of people in order to promote a more sustainable future.\n\nExploring Solutions Past: the Maya Forest Alliance was founded in 2000 and is based in Santa Barbara, California. The organization’s president, Anabel Ford is known for discovering the ancient Maya site of El Pilar, where Exploring Solutions Past focuses its work. Although most of organization’s actions take place in El Pilar and its surrounding regions, Ford’s vision for the organization is to embrace sustainable traditional practices from different cultures all over the world.\n\nExploring Solutions Past suggests that the Maya did not practice ecologically destructive agriculture, but instead were forest gardeners. The forest was treated as a garden of food and medicine. If the Maya treated the forest well enough for their civilization to survive for such a long period of time, then it’s possible that their traditional practices could improve sustainability practices today. Forest gardens could be a major food and medicinal resource as well as a means to conserve biodiversity and water in the area.\n\nExploring Solutions Past conducts projects under three categories: Archaeology Under the Canopy, Forest Garden Education, and the Bi-National Peace Park Initiative. These three projects combine efforts of different groups of people, who bring in their knowledge to contribute to the project.\n\nArchaeology Under the Canopy is a conservation strategy developed by Exploring Solutions Past president Anabel Ford. Ford suggests that forest surrounding ancient monuments serves as protection against destructive elements. Therefore, in order to conserve cultural history, the surrounding environment needs to be protected as well. This conservation strategy is used at El Pilar, which leads to a unique tourism experience. Visitors are able to see monuments within the context of its natural forest garden environment. Projects based on Archaeology Under the Canopy promote forest conservation in valuable ancient sites.\n\nEducation is one of the areas of focus for Exploring Solutions Past. Traditional forest gardening has survived by being passed down through generations. In order to promote sustainability on a much larger scale, forest gardeners have to pass their knowledge on to larger numbers of people. Exploring Solutions Past has teamed up with Maya farmers in the El Pilar Forest Garden Network to help spread the knowledge of traditional forest gardening.\n\nForest gardeners are able to further understand how their practices could benefit future generations and are seeing the importance of continuing their traditions. Ford and her team have also created a teacher’s guide for school teachers in the area to include forest gardening into their curriculum. Therefore, young students are able to understand the importance of forest gardening.\n\nExploring Solutions Past encourages the involvement of local communities not only to spread the goal of the organization, but to also improve the economic status of the local people. Anabel Ford's plans to increase the local interest in tourism and agriculture could benefit overall economic status of the regions surrounding El Pilar.\n\nOn October 21, 2008, a Memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed at the Santa Barbara Courthouse. This MoU established the Guatemalan government’s agreement to work with UCSB and the government of Belize to fund research and establish a peace park at El Pilar. El Pilar is located on the often disputed border between Belize and Guatemala. With the concerns for biodiversity and the increasing interest in tourism, both countries understood the significance of El Pilar. The potential benefits to both countries contributed to the establishment of El Pilar as the first binational peace park.\n\n"}
{"id": "3795633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3795633", "title": "Gavan McCormack", "text": "Gavan McCormack\n\nGavan McCormack is a researcher specializing in East Asia who is Emeritus Professor and Visiting Fellow, Division of Pacific and Asian History of the Australian National University. He is also a coordinator of an award-winning open access journal .\n\nMcCormack read Law and Arts at the University of Melbourne from 1955 to 1959. From 1960–62, he spent two years completing an MA in history. McCormack spent the 1962–1963 academic year at Osaka University of Foreign Studies (OUFS) where he took a Diploma in Japanese Language and Culture. From 1963–66, he read Chinese at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), taking a second. McCormack then spent two years completing a second MA at SOAS in Area Studies (Far East). From 1969 to 1974, he completed a PhD at SOAS. His thesis was \"Chang Tso-lin, the Mukden Military Clique, and Japan, 1920–1928: The Development and interrelationships of Chinese warlordism and Japanese imperialism in northeast China\". This was later published as a book.\n\nHis academic career took him to the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom, then to La Trobe University in Victoria, Australia and eventually the University of Adelaide in South Australia. In 1990, he was appointed Professor in Japanese at the Australian National University.\n\nMcCormack's main research interest is in \"modern Japanese (and East Asian) political, intellectual, and environmental history\". He has published widely, in academic and popular journals, on the \"liberation\" struggles in South East Asia. In more recent times he has become more interested in environmental issues and in 1996 published \"The Emptiness of Japanese Affluence\" which attacked Japanese economic success as a mirage based on environmental exploitation that posed the single greatest threat to stability in the region. He remains a trenchant critic of the Bush Presidency and the American government in general. He has claimed that the North Korean nuclear program is justified by belligerent American rhetoric.\n\nHe worked as visiting professor at Kobe University, Kyoto University, Ritsumeikan University, Tsukuba University, International Christian University, and Tokyo Institute of Technology.\n\nGavan McCormack had contributed as a guest editorial staff of the South Korean newspaper, Kyunghyang Shinmun from December 2007 to December 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "38607985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38607985", "title": "Gerald Stourzh", "text": "Gerald Stourzh\n\nGerald Stourzh (born 15 May 1929 in Vienna, Austria) is an Austrian historian who studies modern history, especially the history of North America, of Austria, of political ideas, of constitutions and especially of human rights. He taught, as a professor, at the Free University of Berlin from 1964 to 1969, and at the University of Vienna from 1969 until 1997, when he became professor emeritus.\n\nGerald Stourzh, born in Vienna in 1929, was the only child of Herbert and Helene Stourzh (née Anderle). His parents were both University graduates (the father Lutheran, the mother Catholic). Gerald himself is Lutheran. As R.G. Plaschka wrote about him in an encomium in 1991, \"there is something of his Lutheran ancestors, of his Lutheran heritage in him, when, confronted by a question of principle, he indicates, shrugging: Here I stand.\"\n\nHis mother, a practising gynecologist, had obtained her doctorate in 1915 when this was still quite unusual for a woman. His father had studied philosophy and made his living employed by the government of Lower Austria, but his real calling was that of a philosophical and political writer. As early as 1934, he wrote warningly about \"National Bestialism\", as he called National Socialism. After the \"Anschluss\" in 1940, the Gestapo started to investigate Herbert Stourzh, but his early death due to cancer in 1941 probably saved him from greater problems.\n\nAs Gerald Stourzh wrote in 2009, he owed two precious things to his parents: firstly the unconditional respect for scientific, mental pursuit in intellectual honesty, and secondly the unconditional respect for the human person, for the primacy of the single person versus super-individual entities: be it nation or social position or class or people or race.\n\nStourzh obtained his Matura at a Vienna Gymnasium in 1947. He then studied history for eight semesters, partly at the University of Vienna, partly at the University of Clermont-Ferrand in France and at the University of Birmingham in England. He was impressed by some of his teachers like Heinrich Benedikt or Hugo Hantsch, but influenced more by books (e.g., the books by Friedrich Meinecke and Josef Redlich). He obtained his degree Doctor of Philosophy at the University of Vienna in 1951 with a thesis in the field of the history of constitutions and of law, a field which remained his lifelong interest.\n\nIn 1951, he received an invitation - which he gladly accepted - by the political scientist Hans J. Morgenthau whom he had met before in Austria, to join him as a research assistant at the Center for the Study of American Foreign Policy of the University of Chicago, a center recently created by Morgenthau. As the only historian at this institute, Stourzh got the task of writing a book about Benjamin Franklin. After his official graduation (in absentia) at the University of Vienna, his position was upgraded to that of a research associate in the rank of instructor and later of assistant professor. Originally hired for a year, Stourzh eventually stayed in Chicago until 1958:- as a research associate until 1953, from 1953 to 1954 as William Rainey Harper Fellow in the Department of History, from 1954 to 1956 again as a research associate at the University, from 1956 to 1957 as a research associate at the American Foundation of Political Education, and in 1958 again at the University.\n\nDuring this time, and with Morgenthau's permission, Stourzh also studied history and political science at the University and in the \"Committee on Social Thought\", for example with professors Leo Strauss (seminar on Machiavelli), Friedrich von Hayek (seminars on Tocqueville and on liberalism), Quincy Wright (international relations) and Hans Rothfels (nationality problems in central Europe). He was especially impressed by the historian William T. Hutchinson, in whose seminar he wrote an essay about Charles A. Beard that was published in 1957.\n\nThe most important result of his Chicago years was the book \"Benjamin Franklin and American Foreign Policy\", that was published by the University of Chicago Press in the spring of 1954, before the author's 25th birthday. In 1955, this book received the prize of the American Institute of Early American History and Culture for the best book on early American history published in 1954. In the document accompanying the prize, it says, “...you have given us his [i.e, Franklin's] wisdom where he would most want us to have it, in our relation with the rest of the world. It is fitting that you, born and educated in Austria, should have crossed the Atlantic to teach this lesson.” In 1962, Stourzh submitted the book on Franklin as a habilitation thesis at the University of Vienna.\n\nIn addition to that, the Chicago years led to several publications by the American Foundation of Political Education, co-edited by Stourzh. By the time Stourzh returned to Vienna in June, 1958, he had finished the first version of a book on Alexander Hamilton which was, however, not accepted for publication by the editor due to conflicting reviews. In view of his new professional duties, this book was finished only several years later, during a research stay 1966/67 at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, and during his stay at the Free University of Berlin. The book was published as \"Alexander Hamilton and the Idea of Republican Government\" by Stanford University Press in 1970.\n\nAfter rejecting an invitation for a one-year guest professorship by the University of California, Berkeley, Stourzh returned to Vienna in 1958 to organize the newly created Austrian Association for Foreign Policy and International Relations; he was its general secretary until 1962. In 1962, Stourzh passed his habilitation and became Docent for Modern History at the University of Vienna. In the same year, upon a suggestion by Bruno Kreisky, he entered Austria's Federal Ministry for European and International Affairs, where he had the desk of the Council of Europe. In 1963, he received a call from the Free University of Berlin to become a professor of Modern History, especially American history, and to head, at the same time, the section for American history at the newly founded John F. Kennedy-Institute for North American Studies of that University. He accepted the call and remained at the Free University until 1969, with an interruption due to a research stay at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Princeton. In 1969, he became professor for Modern History at the University of Vienna, succeeding Friedrich Engel-Janosi. He has remained in that position until becoming professor emeritus in 1997.\n\nAlthough remaining in contact with his Anglo-American research topics due to many lectures in the United States and a research stay as an \"Overseas Fellow\" at Churchill College of the University of Cambridge in 1976, Stourzh's research activity now followed two lines: firstly, the problem of the nationalities within the Habsburg Monarchy, roughly between 1848 and 1918, the most important result being the book \"Die Gleichberechtigung der Nationalitäten in der Verfassung und Verwaltung Österreichs 1848-1918\" (\"The equality before law of the nationalities in constitution and administration of Austria, 1848 - 1918\"), published in 1985; and secondly, the genesis of the Austrian State Treaty and of Austrian neutrality, and the end of allied occupation of Austria. The main result was a history of the Austrian State Treaty, that has been growing from 1975 to 2005 in altogether five editions with different titles (see Publications). Since the Nineties, continuing earlier studies, Stourzh has been studying the history of human rights in the western world.\n\nIn 1967/68, he was a member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. Since a research stay in 1976, he has been Overseas Fellow of the Churchill College at the University of Cambridge.\n\nIn 1962, Stourzh married Christiane Klingsland, Doctor of law, in Vienna. She was a feminist and struggled for women's rights all her life. Three daughters came from this marriage: Verena, Theresa and Katharina. Christiane died in 2004. Since 2011, he has been married to Prof. Marie-Luise Deskovic (*8.8.1937 - †10.1.2016).\n\nGerald Stourzh is also an artist: his love of theater - that dates from his youth - brought him back on stage again: after 50 years, the same persons played the same piece (\"Der Zerrissene\" by Johann Nestroy) again, everyone acting the same part as before - this time for a caritative purpose. In his youth, as a cellist, he played chamber music with friends, and he also wrote an interpretation of the story \"La chute\" by Albert Camus.\n\nThis list, taken from the full list of publications, lists mainly English-language publications. For the (much larger) list of German publications, see the German Wikipedia article on Gerald Stourzh.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11046341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11046341", "title": "Hannah Landecker", "text": "Hannah Landecker\n\nHannah Landecker is an author and Professor of Sociology at UCLA. Her research interests are the social and historical study of biotechnology and life science, from 1900 to the present, the intersections of biology and technology, with a particular focus on cells, and the in vitro conditions of life in research settings. Hannah Landecker was Assistant Professor of Anthropology at Rice University through 2007. She was a visiting scholar at The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, Texas's Institute for Medical Humanities in 2004, where she worked on a project that examined the changing human relationship to living matter in an age of biotechnology. Through a history of the technical manipulation of living cells, she looked at how biological things, including those made with human tissues, have been turned into tools and commercial objects. She is also worked on developing new methods and curricula for teaching the history and social study of biotechnology to undergraduates. Dr. Landecker has degrees from the Program in Science, Technology and Society at MIT (PhD), and the University of British Columbia (BSc). Recent work includes looking at ways in which antibiotic resistance has become a key marker of the Anthropocene.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37159619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37159619", "title": "Herbert Lüthy", "text": "Herbert Lüthy\n\nHerbert Lüthy (1918-2002) was a Swiss historian and journalist. His book \"France Against Herself\", published in the mid-1950s, criticized French traditionalism.\n\nBorn in Basel, Herbert Lüthy attended school in Glarus and St. Gallen. He then studied at the universities of Paris, Geneva and Zürich, gaining a PhD in history in 1942. He became a journalist, writing for the \"St. Galler Tagblatt\" during World War II. From 1946 to 1958 he lived in Paris, writing for Melvin J. Lasky's magazine \"Der Monat\". He also wrote for \"Encounter\". In 1958 he became Professor of Education and History at ETH Zurich. In 1971 he moved to the University of Basel, retiring for health reasons in 1980. He died in Basel in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "59092468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59092468", "title": "Ian McGibbon", "text": "Ian McGibbon\n\nIan McGibbon (born 7 December 1947) is a New Zealand historian, specialising in military and political history of the 20th century. He has published several books on New Zealand participation in the First and Second World Wars. \n\nBorn on 7 December 1947 in Dannevirke, McGibbon was educated at Victoria University of Wellington. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in 1968, Honours the following year and in 1971, he graduated with a Masters of Arts degree with distinction, majoring in history.\n\nHis career as a historian began with an appointment in 1971 as the Defence Historian at the Ministry of Defence, where he worked for eight years. In 1979, he started work for the Department of Internal Affairs in the Historical Publications Branch. From 1982, he was the only staff member dealing with military history and produced the official history of New Zealand's involvement in the Korean War. In 1994 he earned a Doctor of Letters, also from Victoria University. He later was General Editor (War History) at the Ministry for Culture and Heritage. His primary area of interest is New Zealand military history and politics, with particular focus on 20th-century warfare.\n\nIn 1997 McGibbon was made an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit for his services to historical research. From 2010 to 2014, McGibbon was a participant in the Joint Historical and Archaeological Survey of the Anzac Battlefield, working alongside historians and archaeologists from Australia and Turkey; he edited \"Anzac Battlefield: A Gallipoli Landscape of War and Memory\", the resulting publication from the Cambridge University Press.\n\nMcGibbon's publications include:\n\nAuthor\n\nEditor\n"}
{"id": "56476686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56476686", "title": "Ina Zweiniger-Bargielowska", "text": "Ina Zweiniger-Bargielowska\n\nIna-Maria Zweiniger-Bargielowska, known professionally as Ina Zweiniger-Bargielowska, is a British-American academic historian specialising in 20th-century Britain. Since 2010, she has been Professor of History at the University of Illinois at Chicago.\n\nZweiniger-Bargielowska completed her undergraduate studies at Queen Mary College, University of London, graduating in 1985 with a first-class Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in history and politics; she then carried out doctoral studies at the University of Cambridge, which awarded her a doctorate (DPhil) in 1990 for her thesis entitled \"Industrial relationships and nationalisation in the South Wales coalmining industry\". Her supervisor was Barry Supple.\n\nFrom 1989 to 1990, Zweiniger-Bargielowska was a Research Fellow at the Institute of Historical Research, part of the University of London; she then spent three years as a Prize Research Fellow at Nuffield College, Oxford, before taking up a lectureship at the University of Wales, Aberystwyth, in 1993. In 2000, she was appointed Assistant Professor of History at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) and a year later became an Associate Professor there. In 2010, she was appointed Professor of History at UIC.\n\nZweiniger-Bargielowska's research focuses on 20th-century British history; she has written on the Conservative Party, rationing in the United Kingdom, female consumers and the body, lifestyle and public health. Her publications include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8451030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8451030", "title": "Indigenous Aryans", "text": "Indigenous Aryans\n\nThe Indigenous Aryans theory, also known as the Out of India theory (OIT), proposes that the Indo-European languages, or at least the Indo-Aryan languages, originated within the Indian subcontinent, as an alternative to the established migration model which proposes the Pontic steppe as the area of origin of the Indo-European languages. The indigenist view sees the Indo-Aryan languages as having a deep history in the Indian subcontinent, and being the carriers of the Indus Valley Civilization. This view proposes an older date than is generally accepted for the Vedic period, which is generally considered to follow the decline of Harappan culture.\n\nIt includes arguments against the Indo-Aryan migration theory, and arguments to re-date the Vedas and the presence of the Vedic people in accordance with traditional, Vedic-Puranic datings. The idea of \"Indigenous Aryans\" also implies a migration \"Out of India\" to Europe and Central Asia. This is contrary to the mainstream scholarly view, saying that the Indo-Aryan languages originated outside India.\n\nThe proposal has been entwined with political and religious arguments, since it is based on traditional and religious views on Indian history and its identity. There has also been resistance among some Indian scholars to the idea that Indian culture can be divided between external Indo-European and indigenous Dravidian elements, a division which is sometimes described as a legacy of colonial rule and a hindrance to Indian national unity. The debate mostly exists among the scholars of Hindu religion and the history and archaeology of India, whereas historical linguists nearly unanimously accept the migration model of Indic origins.\n\nThe standard view on the origins of the Indo-Aryans is the Indo-Aryan migration theory, which states that they entered north-western India at about 1500 BCE. An alternative view is the idea that the Aryans are indigenous to India, which challenges the standard view. In recent times the indigenous position has come to the foreground of the public debate.\n\nThe Indo-Aryan Migration theory posits the introduction of Indo-Aryan languages into South Asia through migrations of Indo-European-speaking people from the Pontic Steppes via Central Asia into the Levant (Mitanni), south Asia, and Inner Asia (Wusun and Yuezhi). It is part of the Kurgan-hypothesis/Revised Steppe Theory, which further describes the spread of Indo-European languages into western Europe via migrations of Indo-European speaking people.\n\nHistorical linguistics provides the main basis for the theory, analysing the development and changes of languages, and establishing relations between the various Indo-European languages, and the time frame wherein these languages developed. It also provides information about shared words, and the corresponding area of the origin of Indo-European, and the specific vocabulary which is to be ascribed to specific regions. The linguistic analyses and data are supplemented with archaeological data and anthropological arguments, which together provide a coherent model that is widely accepted.\n\nIn the model, the Yamna culture is the \"Urheimat\" of the Indo-Europeans, east of which emerged the Sintashta culture (2100–1800 BC), from which developed the Andronovo culture (1800–1400 BC). Andronovo culture interacted with the BMAC (2300–1700 BC) and, out of this interaction, developed the Indo-Iranians, which split into the Indo-Aryan and the Iranian branches around 1800 BC. The Indo-Aryans migrated to the Levant, northern India, and possibly Inner Asia.\n\nThe migration into northern India was not necessarily a large-scale immigration, but may have consisted of small groups, possibly of ethnically and genetically heterogeneous composition, who introduced their language and social system into the new territory. These are then emulated by larger groups of people, which become absorpted in the new language group. Witzel also notes that \"small-scale semi-annual\ntranshumance movements between the Indus plains and the Afghan and Baluchi highlands continue to this day.\"\n\nThe so-called \"Aryan Invasion theory\" is an outdated variant on this model. In the 1850s, Max Müller introduced the notion of two Aryan races, a western and an eastern one, who migrated from the Caucasus into Europe and India respectively. Müller dichotomized the two groups, ascribing greater prominence and value to the western branch. Nevertheless, this \"eastern branch of the Aryan race was more powerful than the indigenous eastern natives, who were easy to conquer.\" By the 1880s, his ideas had been \"hijacked\" by racist ethnologists. For example, as an exponent of race science, colonial administrator Herbert Hope Risley (1851 – 1911) used the ratio of the width of a nose to its height to divide Indian people into Aryan and Dravidian races, as well as seven castes.\n\nThe idea of an Aryan \"invasion\" was fueled after the discovery of the Indus Valley Civilisation, also called Harappan Civilisation. The Indus Valley Civilisation underwent decline at around the same period during which the Indo-Aryan migration occurred. This led to the idea that this migration was actually an aggressive invasion which caused the decline of the Harappan Civilisation. This argument was developed by the mid-20th century archaeologist Mortimer Wheeler, who interpreted the presence of many unburied corpses found in the top levels of Mohenjo-daro as the victims of conquests. He famously stated that the Vedic god \"Indra stands accused\" of the destruction of the Indus Civilisation.\n\nScholarly critics have since argued that Wheeler misinterpreted the evidence he found, and that the skeletons were better explained as hasty interments, not victims of a massacre. The theory has been discarded in mainstream scholarship since the 1980s, and replaced by much more sophisticated models.\n\nNevertheless, critics of the Indo-Aryan Migration theory use it to present the Indo-Aryan Migration theory as a variant of \"Aryan Invasion Theory\". According to Witzel, the invasion model was criticised by Indigenous Aryanists for its racist and colonialist undertones:\nThe \"Indigenist position\" started to take shape after the discovery of the Harappan Civilisation, which predates the Vedas. According to this alternative view, the Aryans are indigenous to India, the Indus Civilisation is the Vedic Civilisation, the Vedas are older than the second millennium BCE, there is no difference between the (northern) Indo-European part and the (southern) Dravidian part, and the Indo-European languages radiated out from a homeland in India into their present locations.\n\nThese ideas are based on the Puranas, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana, which contain lists of kings and genealogies, which are used for the traditional chronology of India's ancient history. \"Indigenists\" follow a \"Puranic agenda\", emphasizing that these lists go back to the fourth millennium BCE. Megasthenes, the Greek ambassador to the Maurya court at Patna at ca. 300 BCE, reported to have heard of a traditional list of 153 kings that covered 6042 years, beyond the traditional beginning of the Kaliyuga at 3102 BCE. The royal lists are based on Bardic traditions, and are derived from lists which were orally transmitted and constantly reshaped by the Sūta bards.\n\nThese lists are supplemented with astronomical interpretations, which are also used to reach an earlier dating for the Rg Veda. Along with this comes a redating of historical personages and events, in which the Buddha is dated to 1700 BCE or even 3139/8 BCE, and Chandragupta Maurya (c. 300 BCE) is replaced by Chandragupta, the Gupta king. Elst notes that\nThe Vedic Foundation gives a chronology of ancient India (\"Bharata\"), which starts in 3228 BCE with the descension of Bhagwan Krishna. The Mahabharata War is dated at 3139 BCE, while various dynasties are dated more than a millennium earlier, Gautama Buddha is dated at 1894-1814 BCE, and Jagadguru Shankaracharya at 509-477 BCE. These ideas provide a continues chronology of India, in contrast to the discontinuity between the Harappan end Vedic period:\nThe idea of \"Indigenous Aryanism\" fits into traditional Hindu ideas about their religion, namely that it has timeless origins, with the Vedic Aryans inhabiting India since ancient times. The Vedic Foundation states:\n\nMichael Witzel identifies three major types of \"Indigenous Aryans\" scenarios:\n\nKazanas adds a fourth scenario:\n\nThe idea of \"Indigenous Aryans\" is supported with specific interpretations of archaeological, genetic, and linguistic data, and on literary interpretations of the Rigveda. Standard arguments, both in support of the \"Indigenous Aryans\" theory, and in opposition the mainstream Indo-Aryan Migration theory, are:\n\nFor Aurobindo, an \"Aryan\" was not a person who belonged to a particular race, but a person who \"accepted a particular type of self-culture, of inward and outward practice, of ideality, of aspiration.\" He wanted to revive India's strength by reviving the Aryan strength and character. Aurobindo denied the historicity of a racial division in India between \"Aryan invaders\" and a native dark-skinned population. Nevertheless, he did accept two kinds of culture in ancient India, namely the Aryan culture of northern and central India and Afghanistan, and the un-Aryan culture of the east, south and west. Thus, he accepted the division of European historians between two types of cultural configurations.\n\nThe \"Out of India theory\" (OIT), also known as the \"Indian Urheimat theory,\" is the proposition that the Indo-European language family originated in Northern India and spread to the remainder of the Indo-European region through a series of migrations. It implies that the people of the Harappan civilisation were linguistically Indo-Aryans.\n\nKoenraad Elst, in his \"Update in the Aryan Invasion Debate\", investigates \"the developing arguments concerning the Aryan Invasion Theory\". Elst notes:\nEdwin Bryant also notes that Elst's model is a \"theoretical exercise:\"\nAnd in \"Indo-Aryan Controversy\" Bryant notes:\nKoenraad Elst summarises \"the emerging alternative to the Aryan Invasion Theory\" as follows.\nDuring the 6th millennium BC Proto-Indo-Europeans lived in the Punjab region of northern India. As the result of demographic expansion, they spread into Bactria as the Kambojas. The Paradas moved further and inhabited the Caspian coast and much of central Asia while the Cinas moved northwards and inhabited the Tarim Basin in northwestern China, forming the Tocharian group of I-E speakers. These groups were Proto-Anatolian and inhabited that region by 2000 BC. These people took the oldest form of the Proto Indo-European (PIE) language with them and, while interacting with people of the Anatolian and Balkan region, transformed it into a separate dialect. While inhabiting central Asia they discovered the uses of the horse, which they later sent back to the Urheimat. Later on during their history, they went on to occupy western Europe and thus spread the Indo-European languages to that region.\n\nDuring the 4th millennium BC, civilisation in India started evolving into what became the urban Indus Valley Civilization. During this time, the PIE languages evolved to Proto-Indo-Iranian. Some time during this period, the Indo-Iranians began to separate as the result of internal rivalry and conflict, with the Iranians expanding westwards towards Mesopotamia and Persia, these possibly were the Pahlavas. They also expanded into parts of central Asia. By the end of this migration, India was left with the Proto-Indo-Aryans. At the end of the Mature Harappan period, the Sarasvati river began drying up and the remainder of the Indo-Aryans split into separate groups. Some travelled westwards and established themselves as rulers of the Hurrian Mitanni kingdom by around 1500 BC (see Indo-Aryan superstrate in Mitanni). Others travelled eastwards and inhabited the Gangetic basin while others travelled southwards and interacted with the Dravidian people.\n\nIn books such as \"The Myth of the Aryan Invasion of India\" and \"In Search of the Cradle of Civilization\", Frawley criticises the 19th century racial interpretations of Indian prehistory, such as the theory of a conflict between invading Caucasoid Aryans and Dravidians. In the book \"In Search of the Cradle of Civilization\" (1995), Frawley along with Georg Feuerstein and Subhash Kak has rejected the Aryan Invasion Theory and supported the Out of India theory.\n\nBryant commented that Frawley's historical work is more successful in the popular arena, to which it is directed and where its impact \"is by no means insignificant\", rather than in academic study\nand that \"(Frawley) is committed to channelling a symbolic spiritual paradigm through a critical empirico rational one\".\n\nPseudo-archaeologist Graham Hancock (2002) quotes Frawley's historical work extensively for the proposal of highly evolved ancient civilisations prior to our current estimate of history, including in India. Kreisburg refers to Frawley's \"The Vedic Literature and Its Many Secrets\".\n\nThe \"Aryan Invasion Theory\" plays an important role in Hindu nationalism, which favors the idea of \"Indigenous Aryanism\". It has to be understood to the background of colonialism, and the task of nation-building in India.\n\nCuriosity and the colonial requirements of knowledge about the subject people led the officials of the East India Company to explore the history and culture of India in the late 18th century. When similarities between Sanskrit, Greek and Latin were discovered by William Jones, a suggestion of \"monogenesis\" (single origin) was formulated for these languages as well as their speakers. In the latter part of the 19th century, it was thought that language, culture and race were inter-related, and the notion of biological race came to the forefront The \"Aryan race,\" the presumed identity of Indo-European language speakers was prominent among such races, which was seen to be further subdivided into \"European Aryans\" and \"Asian Aryans,\" each with their own homelands.\n\nMax Mueller, who translated the Rigveda during 1849–1874, postulated an original homeland for all Aryans in central Asia, from where a northern branch was believed to have migrated to Europe and a southern branch came to India and Iran. The Aryans were fair-complexioned Indo-European speakers who conquered the dark-skinned \"dasas\" of India. The upper castes, particularly the Brahmins, were thought to be of Aryan descent whereas the lower castes and Dalits (\"untouchables\") were thought to be the descendents of \"dasas\".\n\nThe Aryan theory served to provide the colonised Indians with status and self-esteem, making them believe that they are of the same stock as the colonisers, linguistically and racially. However, Christian missionaries such as John Muir and John Wilson drew attention to the plight of lower castes, who they said were oppressed by the upper castes since the Aryan invasions. Jyotiba Phule argued that the \"dasas\" and \"sudras\" were indigenous people and the rightful inheritors of the land, whereas Brahmins were Aryan and alien.\n\nThe upper castes had their own uses for the Aryan theory. Keshab Chunder Sen saw the English rule in India as a \"reunion of parted cousins.\" The nationalist leader Bal Gangadhar Tilak endorsed the antiquity of \"Rigveda\", dating it to 4500 BC. He placed the homeland of the Aryans somewhere close to the North Pole. From there, Aryans were believed to have migrated south in the post-glacial age, branching into a European branch that relapsed into barbarism and an Indian branch that retained the original, superior civilisation.\n\nIn contrast to the mainstream views, the Hindu revivalist movements denied an external origin to Aryans. Dayananda Saraswati, the founder of the Arya Samaj (Society of Aryans), held that Vedas were the source of all knowledge that were revealed to the Aryans. The first man (an Aryan) was created in Tibet and, after living there for some time, the Aryans came down and inhabited India, which was devoid of any people earlier.\n\nThe Theosophical Society held that the Aryans were indigenous to India, but that they were also the progenitors of the European civilisation. The Society saw a dichotomy between the spiritualism of India and the materialism of Europe.\n\nThe Hindu nationalists, led by Savarkar and Golwalkar, eager to construct a Hindu identity for the nation, held that the original Hindus were the Aryans and that they were indigenous to India. There was no Aryan invasion and no conflict among the people of India. The Aryans spoke Sanskrit and spread the Aryan civilization from India to the west.\n\nLars Martin Fosse notes the political significance of \"Indigenous Aryanism\". He notes that \"Indigenous Aryanism\" has been adopted by Hindu nationalists as a part of their ideology, which makes it a \"political\" matter in addition to a scholarly problem. The proponents of Indigenous Aryanism necessarily engage in \"moral disqualification\" of Western Indology, which is a recurrent theme in much of the indigenist literature. The same rhetoric is being used in indigenist literature and the Hindu nationalist publications like the \"Organiser\".\n\nWitzel traces the \"indigenous Aryan\" idea to the writings of Savarkar and Golwalkar. Golwalkar (1939) denied any immigration of \"Aryans\" to the subcontinent, stressing that all Hindus have always been \"children of the soil\", a notion which according to Witzel is reminiscent of the \"blood and soil\" of contemporary fascism . Since these ideas emerged on the brink of the internationalist and socially oriented Nehru-Gandhi government, they lay dormant for several decades, and only rose to prominence in the 1980s.\n\nBergunder likewise identifies Golwalkar as the originator of the \"Indigenous Aryans\" notion, and Goel's Voice of India as the instrument of its rise to notability:\nRepercussions of the disagreements about Aryan origins have reached Californian courts with the Californian Hindu textbook case, where according to the Times of India historian and president of the Indian History Congress, Dwijendra Narayan Jha in a \"crucial affidavit\" to the Superior Court of California,\nMichael Witzel has severely criticised the \"Indigenous Aryans\" position:\nIn her review of Bryant's \"The Indo-Aryan Controversy\", which includes chapters by Elst and other \"indigenists\", Stephanie Jamison comments:\nSudeshna Guha, in her review of \"The Indo-Aryan Controversy\", notes that the book has serious methodological shortcomings, by not asking the question what exactly constitutes historical evidence. This makes the \"fair and adequate representation of the differences of opinion\" problematic, since it neglects \"the extent to which unscholarly opportunism has motivated the rebirth of this genre of 'scholarship'. Guha:\nAccording to Bryant, OIT proponents tend to be linguistic dilettantes who either ignore the linguistic evidence completely, dismiss it as highly speculative and inconclusive, or attempt to tackle it with hopelessly inadequate qualifications; this attitude and neglect significantly minimises the value of most OIT publications.\n\nFosse notes crucial theoretical and methodological shortcomings in the indigenist literature. Analysing the works of Sethna, Bhagwan Singh, Navaratna and Talageri, he notes that they mostly quote English literature, which is not fully explored, and omitting German and French Indology. It makes their works in various degrees underinformed, resulting in a critique that is \"largely neglected by Western scholars because it is regarded as incompetent.\"\n\nEdwin Bryant, a cultural historian, has given an overview of the various \"Indigenist\" positions in his PhD-thesis and two subsequent publications:\n\n\"The indigenous Aryan debate\" and \"The Quest for the Origins of Vedic Culture\" are reports of his fieldwork, primarily interviews with Indian researchers, on the reception of the \"Indo-Aryan Migration theory\" in India. \"The Indo-Aryan Controversy\" is a bundle of papers by various \"Indigenists\", including Koenraad Elst, but also a paper by Michael Witzel.\n\nAnother overview has been given by Thomas Trautmann:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52414308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52414308", "title": "Josine Blok", "text": "Josine Blok\n\nJosine Henriëtte Blok (born 9 June 1953) is a Dutch classical scholar. She has been a professor of Ancient History and Classical Civilisation at Utrecht University since 2001.\n\nBlok was born in Oegstgeest. She attended the gymnasium and subsequently studied history at the University of Groningen between 1971 and 1978. In October 1991, she obtained her PhD at Leiden University under professor , with a thesis titled: \"Amazones antianeirai. Interpretaties van de Amazonenmythe in het mythologisch onderzoek van de 19e en 20e eeuw en in archaïsch Griekenland\". In 2001, Blok was appointed professor at Utrecht University.\n\nIn 2003, Blok was awarded a Vici grant by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research for research on citizenship in Classical Athens. She was elected a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "43929365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43929365", "title": "Joyce Reynolds (classicist)", "text": "Joyce Reynolds (classicist)\n\nJoyce Maire Reynolds, FBA (born 18 December 1918) is a British classicist and academic, specialising in Roman historical epigraphy. She is an honorary fellow of Newnham College, Cambridge. She has dedicated her life to the study and teaching of Classics. Reynolds' most significant publications were texts from the city of Aphrodisias, including letters between Aphrodisian and Roman authorities.\n\nJoyce Reynolds was born in Highams Park, Greater London, 18 December 1918. Both her parents came from Walthamstow, her father, William Howe Reynolds, was a civil servant and her mother, Nellie Farmer, a school teacher. Joyce was educated at Walthamstow County Girls' school, and then St Paul's Girls School, where she won a scholarship. She studied Classics at Somerville College, Oxford, having been awarded an exhibition between 1937 and 1941. She graduated with a first class degree in 1944. During the war, from 1941 to 1946, Joyce worked as a temporary civil servant, first as an Assistant Principal at the Board of Trade, later Principal.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1979 Reynolds was Director of Studies in Classics at Newnham College, Cambridge and from 1957 to 1983 she was lecturer in Classics at the University of Cambridge. From 1983 to 1984 she was a Reader in the Epigraphy of the Roman World at the University of Cambridge and she remains an honorary fellow of Newnham College. In 1982 she was elected to the Fellowship of the British Academy.\n\nIn her nineties Joyce continues to work, playing a prominent role in the online publication of Inscriptions of Aphrodisias (available online) and Roman Tripolitania.\n\nShe is one of six British women born in 1918 or before featured in \"The Century Girls\", a book written by Tessa Dunlop to commemorate the 100th anniversary of women getting the vote in the United Kingdom, which occurred in 1918.\n\nIn 2004, Reynolds was awarded the Gold Medal of the Society of Antiquaries for distinguished services to archaeology.\n\nIn 2017, Reynolds was awarded the Kenyon Medal by the British Academy \"in recognition of a lifetime's contribution to the research and study of Roman epigraphy\". She is the first woman awarded this medal.\n\nShe received a Fellowship of Newnham College, Cambridge in 1951. She was awarded the Honorary degree of Doctor of Letters (D.Litt) from the University of Cambridge on 20 June 2018. She is also an Honorary Fellow of Somerville College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28176484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28176484", "title": "Katherine L. Gregory", "text": "Katherine L. Gregory\n\nRear Admiral Katherine Louise Gregory is the first female flag officer in the United States Navy Civil Engineer Corps (CEC). She assumed command of Naval Facilities Engineering Command (NAVFAC) Pacific on July 9, 2010, and took command of all NAVFAC as the highest-ranked civil engineer in the navy in 2012. In November 2015, RADM Gregory was succeeded by RADM Bret J. Muilenburg.\n\nKatherine L. Gregory is a native of St. Louis, Missouri. She attended Parkway North High School before graduating from the United States Naval Academy in 1982.\n\nGregory holds undergraduate and graduate degrees from the U.S. Naval Academy, the University of Southern California, and George Washington University. She has completed the Senior Executive Program at the London School of Business, is a registered professional engineer in the Commonwealth of Virginia, and is a qualified military parachutist and Seabee combat warfare officer.\n\nGregory's first assignment was in Yokosuka, Japan as the assistant Resident Officer In Charge of Construction (ROICC). From there she moved to Naples, Italy to serve as the engineering and planning officer.\n\nIn 1986 Gregory began her first tour with the Seabees, serving as a company commander, assistant operations officer and detachment officer in charge with Amphibious Construction Battalion One, homeported in Coronado, California. She then transferred to Washington, D.C., serving as a Seabee action officer at the Naval Facilities Engineering Command (NAVFAC) headquarters.\n\nIn 1991 Gregory moved to San Francisco, California, first as the resident officer in charge of construction, and then as the shore facility environmental compliance officer. She left the Bay Area for the Aleutian Islands to serve as the Naval Air Station Adak public works officer.\n\nIn 1995 Gregory returned to the Seabees, serving as the executive officer of Naval Mobile Construction Battalion 1 (NMCB-1), homeported in Gulfport, Mississippi, and deploying to the Western Pacific and the Mediterranean. After a tour in Washington D.C. as the chief of naval operations overseas bases planning & action officer, she went back to the Naval Construction Force, assuming command of NMCB-133, deploying throughout the Western Pacific and Mediterranean.\n\nIn 1999 Gregory reported to Naples, Italy as the officer in charge of construction, responsible for construction of a new support base and hospital. Her follow on tour was to Hawaii as the executive officer of Navy Public Works Center and NAVFAC Hawaii. Gregory then served as a Department of Defense corporate fellow, working with the Southern Company in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nIn May 2006, she assumed command of the 30th Naval Construction Regiment in Port Hueneme, California. She reported for duty as chief of staff at the First Naval Construction Division in Norfolk, Virginia, in July 2008. Gregory was promoted to the rank of rear admiral on June 1, 2010 and assumed command of NAVFAC Pacific, in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on July 9, 2010. NAVFAC Pacific is a command of approximately 4,000 military and civilian men and women who work for NAVFAC Pacific and its three Facilities Engineering Commands in Hawaii, Guam, and Japan.\n\nHer personal decorations include the Legion of Merit, Meritorious Service Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal.\n\nGregory was named Iowa State University's first senior vice president for university services in July 2016 and served until her resignation in November 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1029571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029571", "title": "Liang Qichao", "text": "Liang Qichao\n\nLiang Qichao (; Cantonese: \"Lèuhng Kái-chīu\"; 23 February 1873 – 19 January 1929), courtesy name Zhuoru, art name Rengong, was a Chinese scholar, journalist, philosopher, and reformist who lived during the late Qing dynasty and the early Republic of China. He inspired Chinese scholars with his writings and reform movements.\n\nLiang Qichao was born in a small village in Xinhui, Guangdong Province on February 23, 1873.\n\nLiang's father, Liang Baoying (梁寶瑛, Cantonese: \"Lèuhng Bóu-yīng\"; courtesy name Lianjian 蓮澗; Cantonese: \"Lìhn-gaan\"), was a farmer and local scholar, but a classical background that emphasized on tradition and education for ethnic rejuvenescence allowed him to be introduced to various literary works at six years old. By the age of nine, Liang started writing thousand-word essays and became a district-school student soon after.\n\nLiang had two wives: Li Huixian (李惠仙; Cantonese: \"Lléih Waih-sīn\") and Wang Guiquan (王桂荃; Cantonese: \"Wòhng Gwai-chyùhn\"). They gave birth to nine children, all of whom became successful individuals through Liang's strict and effective education. Three of them were scientific personnel at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, including Liang Sicheng, the prominent historian of Chinese architecture.\n\nLiang passed the \"Xiucai\" (秀才) degree provincial examination at the age of 11. In 1884, he undertook the arduous task of studying for the traditional governmental exams. At the age of 16, he passed the \"Juren\" (舉人) second level provincial exams and was the youngest successful candidate at that time.\n\nIn 1890, Liang failed in his \"Jinshi\" (進士) degree national examinations in Beijing and never earned a higher degree. He took the exams along with Kang Youwei, a famous Chinese scholar and reformist. According to one popular narrative of Liang's failure to pass the Jinshi, the examiner was determined to flunk Kang for his heterodox challenge to existing institutions, but since the exams were all anonymous, he could only presume that the exam with the most unorthodox views was Kang's. Instead, Kang disguised himself by writing an examination eight-legged essay espousing traditionalist ideas and passed the exam while Liang's paper was assumed to be Kang's and picked out to be failed.\n\nInspired by the book \"A short account of the maritime circuit\", Liang became extremely interested in western ideologies. After returning home, Liang went on to study with Kang Youwei, who was teaching at \"Wanmu Caotang\" (萬木草堂) in Guangzhou. Kang's teachings about foreign affairs fuelled Liang's interest in reforming China.\n\nIn 1895, Liang went to the capital Beijing again with Kang for the national examination. During the examination, he was a leader of the Gongche Shangshu movement. After failing to pass the examination for a second time, he stayed in Beijing to help Kang publish \"Domestic and Foreign Information\". He also helped to organise the Society for National Strengthening (強學會), where Liang served as secretary. For time, he was also enlisted by the governor of Hunan, Chen Baozhen to edit reform-friendly publications, such as the Hunan Daily (\"Xiangbao\" 湘報) and the Hunan Journal (\"Xiang xuebao\" 湘學報).\n\nAs an advocate of constitutional monarchy, Liang was unhappy with the governance of the Qing Government and wanted to change the status quo in China. He organized reforms with Kang Youwei by putting their ideas on paper and sending them to the Guangxu Emperor (reigned 1875–1908) of the Qing dynasty. This movement is known as the \"Wuxu Reform\" or the Hundred Days' Reform. Their proposal asserted that China was in need of more than \"self-strengthening\", and called for many institutional and ideological changes such as getting rid of corruption and remodeling the state examination system. Liang thus was a major influence in the debates on democracy in China.\n\nThis proposal soon ignited a frenzy of disagreement, and Liang became a wanted man by order of Empress Dowager Cixi, the leader of the political conservative faction who later took over the government as regent. Cixi strongly opposed reforms at that time and along with her supporters, condemned the \"Hundred Days' Reform\" as being too radical.\n\nIn 1898, the Conservative Coup ended all reforms, and Liang fled to Japan, where he stayed for the next 14 years. While in Tokyo he befriended the influential politician and future Japanese Prime Minister Inukai Tsuyoshi. In Japan, he continued to actively advocate the democratic cause by using his writings to raise support for the reformers’ cause among overseas Chinese and foreign governments. He continued to emphasize the importance of individualism, and to support the concept of a constitutional monarchy as opposed to the radical republicanism supported by the Tokyo-based \"Tongmeng Hui\" (the forerunner of the Kuomintang). During his time in Japan, Liang also served as a benefactor and colleague to Phan Boi Chau, one of Vietnam's most important anti-colonial revolutionaries.. \n\nIn 1899, Liang went to Canada, where he met Dr. Sun Yat-Sen among others, then to Honolulu in Hawaii. During the Boxer Rebellion, Liang was back in Canada, where he formed the \"Royalist Society\" (保皇會). This organisation later became the Constitutionalist Party which advocated constitutional monarchy. While Sun promoted revolution, Liang preached reform.\n\nIn 1900-1901, Liang visited Australia on a six-month tour which aimed at raising support for a campaign to reform the Chinese empire in order to modernise China through adopting the best of Western technology, industry and government systems. He also gave public lectures to both Chinese and Western audiences around the country. This visit coincided with the Federation of the six British colonies into the new nation of Australia in 1901. He felt this model of integration might well be copied in the diverse regions of China. He was feted by politicians, and met the first Prime Minister of Australia, Edmund Barton. He returned to Japan later that year.\n\nIn 1903, Liang embarked on an eight-month lecture tour throughout the United States, which included a meeting with President Theodore Roosevelt in Washington, DC, before returning to Japan via Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.\n\nThe Confucius descendant Duke Yansheng was proposed for replacing the Qing dynasty as Emperor by Liang Qichao.\n\nWith the overthrow of the Qing dynasty, constitutional monarchy became an increasingly irrelevant topic. Liang merged his renamed Democratic Party with the Republicans to form the new Progressive Party. He was very critical of Sun Yatsen's attempts to undermine President Yuan Shikai. Though usually supportive of the government, he opposed the expulsion of the Nationalists from parliament.\n\nIn 1915, he opposed Yuan's attempt to make himself emperor. He convinced his disciple Cai E, the military governor of Yunnan, to rebel. Progressive party branches agitated for the overthrow of Yuan and more provinces declared their independence. The revolutionary activity that he had frowned upon was utilised successfully. Besides Duan Qirui, Liang was the biggest advocate of entering World War I on the Allied side. He felt it would boost China's status and ameliorate foreign debts. He condemned his mentor, Kang Youwei, for assisting in the failed attempt to restore the Qing in July 1917. After failing to turn Duan and Feng Guozhang into responsible statesmen, he left politics.\n\nLin Yutang (林語堂) once called Liang \"the greatest personality in the history of Chinese journalism,\" while Joseph Levenson, author of \"Liang Ch'i-ch'ao and the Mind of Modern China\", described Liang as \"a brilliant scholar, journalist, and political figure.\"\n\nLiang Qichao was the \"most influential turn-of-the-century scholar-journalist,\" according to Levenson. Liang showed that newspapers and magazines could serve as an effective medium for communicating political ideas.\n\nLiang, as a historian and a journalist, believed that both careers must have the same purpose and \"moral commitment,\" as he proclaimed, \"by examining the past and revealing the future, I will show the path of progress to the people of the nation.\" Thus, he founded his first newspaper, called the \"Qing Yi Bao\" (清議報), named after a student movement of the Han dynasty.\n\nLiang's exile to Japan allowed him to speak freely and exercise his intellectual autonomy. During his career in journalism, he edited two premier newspapers, \"Zhongwai Gongbao\" (中外公報) and \"Shiwu Bao\" (時務報). He also published his moral and political ideals in \"Qing Yi Bao\" (清議報) and \"New Citizen\" (新民叢報).\n\nIn addition, he used his literary works to further spread his views on republicanism both in China and across the world. Accordingly, he had become an influential journalist in terms of political and cultural aspects by writing new forms of periodical journals. Furthermore, journalism paved the way for him to express his patriotism.\n\nLiang produced a widely read biweekly journal called \"New Citizen\" (\"Xinmin Congbao\" 新民叢報), first published in Yokohama, Japan on February 8, 1902.\nThe journal covered many different topics, including politics, religion, law, economics, business, geography and current and international affairs. In the journal, Liang coined many Chinese equivalents for never-before-heard theories or expressions and used the journal to help communicate public opinion in China to faraway readers. Through news analyses and essays, Liang hoped that the \"New Citizen\" would be able to start a \"new stage in Chinese newspaper history.\"\n\nA year later, Liang and his co-workers saw a change in the newspaper industry and remarked, \"Since the inauguration of our journal last year, there have come into being almost ten separate journals with the same style and design.\"\n\nLiang spread his notions about democracy as chief editor of the \"New Citizen Journal\". The journal was published without hindrance for five years but eventually ceased in 1907 after 96 issues. Its readership was estimated to be 200,000.\n\nAs one of the pioneers of Chinese journalism of his time, Liang believed in the \"power\" of newspaper, especially its influence over government policies.\n\nUsing newspapers and magazines to communicate political ideas: Liang realised the importance of journalism's social role and supported the idea of a strong relationship between politics and journalism before the May Fourth Movement, (also known as the New Culture Movement). He believed that newspapers and magazines should serve as an essential and effective tool in communicating political ideas. He believed that newspapers did not only act as a historical record, but was also a means to \"shape the course of history.\"\n\nPress as a weapon in revolution: Liang also thought that the press was an \"effective weapon in the service of a nationalist uprising\". In Liang's words, the newspaper is a “revolution of ink, not a revolution of blood.” He wrote, \"so a newspaper regards the government the way a father or elder brother regards a son or younger brother — teaching him when he does not understand, and reprimanding him when he gets something wrong.\" Undoubtedly, his attempt to unify and dominate a fast-growing and highly competitive press market has set the tone for the first generation of newspaper historians of the May Fourth Movement.\n\nNewspaper as an educational program: Liang was well aware that the newspaper could serve as an \"educational program\", and said, \"the newspaper gathers virtually all the thoughts and expressions of the nation and systematically introduces them to the citizenry, it being irrelevant whether they are important or not, concise or not, radical or not. The press, therefore, can contain, reject, produce, as well as destroy, everything.\"\n\nFor example, Liang wrote a well known essay during his most radical period titled \"The Young China\" and published it in his newspaper \"Qing Yi Bao\" (清議報) on February 2, 1900. The essay established the concept of the nation-state and argued that the young revolutionaries were the holders of the future of China. This essay was influential on the Chinese political culture during the May Fourth Movement in the 1920s.\n\nWeak press: However, Liang thought that the press in China at that time was quite weak, not only due to lack of financial resources and to conventional social prejudices, but also because \"the social atmosphere was not free enough to encourage more readers and there was a lack of roads and highways that made it hard to distribute newspapers\". Liang felt that the prevalent newspapers of the time were \"no more than a mass commodity\". He criticized that those newspapers \"failed to have the slightest influence upon the nation as a society\".\n\nLiang Qichao was both a traditional Confucian scholar and a reformist. Liang Qichao contributed to the reform in late Qing by writing various articles interpreting non-Chinese ideas of history and government, with the intent of stimulating Chinese citizens' minds to build a new China. In his writings, he argued that China should protect the ancient teachings of Confucianism, but also learn from the successes of Western political life and not just Western technology. Therefore, he was regarded as the pioneer of political fiction.\n\nLiang shaped the ideas of democracy in China, using his writings as a medium to combine Western scientific methods with traditional Chinese historical studies. Liang's works were strongly influenced by the Japanese political scholar Katō Hiroyuki, who used methods of social Darwinism to promote the statist ideology in Japanese society. Liang drew from much of his work and subsequently influenced Korean nationalists in the 1900s.\n\nLiang Qichao’s historiographical thought represents the beginning of modern Chinese historiography and reveals some important directions of Chinese historiography in the twentieth century.\n\nFor Liang, the major flaw of \"old historians\" () was their failure to foster the national awareness necessary for a strong and modern nation. Liang's call for new history not only pointed to a new orientation for historical writing in China, but also indicated the rise of modern historical consciousness among Chinese intellectuals. He advocated the Great Man theory in his 1899 piece, \"Heroes and the Times\" (, \"Yīngxióng yǔ Shíshì\"), and he also wrote biographies of European state-builders such as Otto von Bismarck, Horatio Nelson, Oliver Cromwell, Lajos Kossuth, Giuseppe Mazzini, and Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour; as well as Chinese men including Zheng He, Tan Sitong, and Wang Anshi.\n\nDuring this period of Japan's challenge in the First Sino-Japanese War (1894–95), Liang was involved in protests in Beijing pushing for an increased participation in the governance by the Chinese people. It was the first protest of its kind in modern Chinese history. This changing outlook on tradition was shown in the historiographical revolution () launched by Liang Qichao in the early twentieth century. Frustrated by his failure at political reform, Liang embarked upon cultural reform. In 1902, while in exile in Japan, Liang wrote \"The New Historiography\" (), which called on Chinese to study world history to understand China rather than just Chinese history. The article also attacked old historiographical methods, which he lamented focused on dynasty over state; the individual over the group; the past but not the present; and facts, rather than ideals.\n\nLiang was head of the Translation Bureau and oversaw the training of students who were learning to translate Western works into Chinese. He believed that this task was \"the most essential of all essential undertakings to accomplish\" because he believed Westerners were successful - politically, technologically and economically.\n\nPhilosophical Works: After escaping Beijing and the government crackdown on anti-Qing protesters, Liang studied the works of Western philosophers of the Enlightenment period, namely Hobbes, Rousseau, Locke, Hume and Bentham, translating them and introducing his own interpretation of their works. His essays were published in a number of journals, drawing interest among Chinese intellectuals who had been taken aback by the dismemberment of China's formidable empire at the hands of foreign powers.\n\nWestern Social and Political Theories: In the early 20th century, Liang Qichao played a significant role in introducing Western social and political theories in Korea such as Social Darwinism and international law. Liang wrote in his well-known manifesto, \"New People\" (新民說):\n\nLiang advocated reform in both the genres of poem and novel. The \"Collected Works from the Ice-Drinker's Studio\" (飲冰室合集) is his representative works in literature compiled into 148 volumes.\n\nLiang gained his idea of calling his work as \"Collected Works of Yinbingshi\" from a passage of Zhuangzi (《莊子•人間世》). It states that \"Every morning, I receive the mandate [for action], every evening I drink the ice [of disillusion], but I remain ardent in my inner mind\" (吾朝受命而夕飲冰，我其內熱與). As a result, Liang called his workplace as \"The Ice-drinker studio\" (Yinbingshi), and addressed himself as \"Yinbingshi Zhuren\" (飲冰室主人), literally \"Host of the Ice-drinker studio\", in order to present his idea that he was worrying about all the policial matters, so he would still try his best to reform the society by the effort of writings.\n\nLiang also wrote fiction and scholarly essays on fiction, which included \"Fleeing to Japan after failure of Hundred Days' Reform\" (1898) and the essay \"On the Relationship Between Fiction and the Government of the People\" (論小說與群治之關係,1902). These novels emphasized modernization in the West and the call for reform.\n\nIn the late 1920s, Liang retired from politics and taught at the Tung-nan University in Shanghai and the Tsinghua Research Institute in Peking as a tutor. He founded \"Chiang-hsüeh she\" (Chinese Lecture Association) and brought many intellectual figures to China, including Driesch and Tagore. Academically he was a renowned scholar of his time, introducing Western learning and ideology, and making extensive studies of ancient Chinese culture.\n\nDuring this last decade of his life, he wrote many books documenting Chinese cultural history, Chinese literary history and historiography. Liang reexamined the works of Mozi, and authored, amongst other works, \"The Political Thought of the Pre-Qing Period\", and \"Intellectual Trends in the Qing Period.\" He also had a strong interest in Buddhism and wrote numerous historical and political articles on its influence in China. Liang influenced many of his students in producing their own literary works. They included Xu Zhimo, renowned modern poet, and Wang Li, an accomplished poet and founder of Chinese linguistics as a modern discipline.\n\n\n\n\nLiang Sishun, Liang Sicheng, and Liang Sizhuang were borne by Li Huixian. Liang Siyong, Liang Sizhong, Liang Sida, Liang Siyi, Liang Sining, and Liang Sili were borne by Wang Guiquan.\n\nLiang's pedigree book was once lost with only one page left. The family members recreated the naming method by giving sixteen characters in a sequence, each generation following one. Liang didn't follow it by using ‘思’ to his children (the page's photocopy).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58743868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58743868", "title": "List of firefighting monuments and memorials", "text": "List of firefighting monuments and memorials\n\nThis is a list of firefighting monuments and memorials which provide notable commemoration of firefighters' contributions. It also includes some notable monuments and memorials to fire victims other than firefighters, such as the mass memorial to unknown victims of the 1871 Peshtigo fire, which caused the greatest loss of life of any fire in the United States. A number of the monuments and memorials are listed on historic registers such as, in the U.S., the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP).\n\n\n\n\nA 1986 stamp commemorated the Warsaw Fire Guard\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52792050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52792050", "title": "Mazal Holocaust Collection", "text": "Mazal Holocaust Collection\n\nThe Mazal Holocaust Collection is a Holocaust-related archive at the University of Colorado Boulder in Boulder, Colorado, U.S.\n\nThe Mazal Holocaust Collection is the largest privately owned Holocaust-related archive in the world. It comprises 500,000 items, including 20,000 books. Some of its items include aerial photographs of the Auschwitz concentration camp and transcripts of the Nuremberg Trials. Additionally, it includes old copies of \"Der Stürmer\", books of Holocaust denial, and material published by the American Nazi Party in the 1930s. As of March 2015, the full extent of the collection was unknown.\n\nThe collection was established by Harry W. Mazal, a businessman of Turkish-Jewish descent who was born in Mexico City, Mexico and subsequently lived in San Antonio, Texas. Mazal only found out he was Jewish as a teenager, and he began collecting documents related to the Holocaust then. His primary aim was to counter the discourse of Holocaust deniers. In 2011, Mazal discovered one of his employees was stealing and selling some of his collection; the thief was sentenced to eight years in prison in 2014.\n\nWith the help of Professor David Shneer, it has been based at the University of Colorado Boulder since January 2014. Students act as volunteers to categorize and digitalize the collection.\n"}
{"id": "1379502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1379502", "title": "Mir, Belarus", "text": "Mir, Belarus\n\nMir (; ; both meaning \"world\" and \"peace\"; but the name most likely originates from the name of the river the settlement is situated on) is a town in Kareličy (Карэлічы) raion, Hrodna Voblast, Belarus on the banks of Miranka River, about 85 kilometers southwest of the national capital, Minsk.\n\nPrior to 1939 the town was in Poland.\n\nMir village was founded sometime prior to 1345. It is home to a late medieval castle, which made the town the target of many attacks over the centuries. The town belonged to the Illinič family (Korczak coat of arms) first and then to the Radziwiłł family. It was destroyed by the Swedish forces in 1655 (Deluge) and again by the Swedes during the Great Northern War in 1706. In 1792, the Lithuanian division of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth army under Józef Judycki was routed by the invading Imperial Russian army corps under Boris Mellin (see Battle of Mir). During the Napoleonic invasion of Russia in 1812, Russian Imperial cavalry, artillery and cossack regiments ambushed and routed the Duchy of Warsaw 3 uhlan divisions (Battle of Mir (1812)). The retreating Russians, withdrawing east, abandoned the town and dynamited the castle. During the Middle Ages it was first located in the Principality of Polotsk, after the Battle on the river Nemiga in the Principality of Minsk, then was taken over by Kievan Rus' but after the Mongol Invasion the Rus' rule diminished and since 1242 Mir belonged to the expanding and dynamic Duchy of Lithuania.\n\nIn 1569, it became a part of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. From 1793, it was part of the Russian Empire (Partitions of Poland), returned to Poland in 1920, then occupied first by the Soviet Union in September 1939, from 1941 through 1944 by Nazi Germany, then again by the Soviet Union and remained within it as part of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic until 1991, when it became part of independent Belarus.\n\nMir was the site of two very famous horse fairs associated with Saint Nikolaus feast days, first held on May 9 and the second fair on December 6 each year. Both fairs lasted four weeks each and were very popular and well known throughout the country until 1939. Roma practically dominated the fairs as horse traders, and numerous Roma community thrived in the town until 1939. The fairs collapsed in 1941, when Nazi Germany invaded the Belorussian Soviet Republic and murdered the Roma people of Mir.\n\nMir's claim to fame in Jewish Diaspora history is that it was the original home of the Mir yeshiva which operated there intermittently from 1815 until the fall of Poland in 1939, when the invading communist Soviet Red Army and security forces pressured the school to close and relocate to then still free Lithuania. (Current incarnations of the yeshiva are located in Brooklyn, New York, Jerusalem and Modi'in Illit.)\n\nToday, Mir has little industry and is no longer an internationally renowned center of Jewish learning or Roma horse trade. Home to about 2,500 people, virtually none of whom are descended from the once thriving Jewish and Roma communities, its primary attraction is the Mir Castle as well as memorials erected by the Soviet government and various Jewish groups over the past half century. On the eve of World War II, some 2,400 Jews lived in Mir, about half of the town's population. All of them, except about 50 escapees, were murdered by the Germans in 1941. One of the escapees, Elia Miranski, reported in an interview given in 2013 that entire neighborhoods had been destroyed by the Germans and the town today is significantly smaller than it was; outlines of the former neighborhood streets can be seen on Google Earth to the northeast of the castle along the river.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8357020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8357020", "title": "Mirza Mehdi Khan Astarabadi", "text": "Mirza Mehdi Khan Astarabadi\n\nMirza Mehdi Khan Astarabadi (), also known by his title of Monshi-ol-Mamalek (), was the chief secretary, historian, biographer, advisor, strategist, friend and confidant of King Nader Shah Afshar (r. 1736-1747). He who wrote and accepted the different decisions and files related to the Empire.\n\nEven though Mirza Mehdi rose to become an eminent figure in 18th century Iran, not much is known about his life. A native of Astarabad (present-day Gorgan), he was the son of a certain Mohammad-Nasir, and he presumably spent his young life in Isfahan during the late Safavid period, where he practised to become a civil servant.\n\nDuring the reign of the last Safavid king, Sultan Husayn (r. 1696-1722), the Afghans attacked Iran. When military chief Nader Shah expelled the Afghans, Mirza Mehdi Khan supported him in the Safavid court. During his long service to Nader, he first functioned as \"head of the royal correspondance\" (\"Monshi-ol-Mamalek\"), until Nader's coronation at the Mugan plain in 1736. Afterwards, he became his official biographer and historiographer.\n\nDuring Nader's Dagestan campaign, he accompanied him. About Nader's disembarking he noted \"The banners that conquered the world are leaving Iran and heading to Dagestan\".\n\nIn early 1747, Astarabadi was sent as an ambassador to the Ottoman Empire together with Mostafa Khan Bigdeli Shamlu in order to ratify the Treaty of Kerden (1746). However, they had only reached Baghdad when the embassy learned about the death of Nader Shah, which forced them go back to Iran. Everything remains unknown regarding the fate of his subsequent career. He must have \"evidently\" retired from public life in order to be able to finish the philological and historical works which he had been compiling during his service to Nader.\n\nHe was the author of historical books such as \"Tarikh-e-Jahangoshay-e-Naderi\" (History of Nadir Shah's Wars), which is a book studied in the Yale University and has this presentation : « Tarikh-i Nadiri. A history of Nadir shah Afshar, who ruled Iran from 1736 to 1747, written in Persian by Mahdi Khan Astarabadi (d. 1759), his secretary and court historian ». This book was also the object of research in 1996 by United States Naval Academy. Mirza Mehdi Khan also wrote \"Dareh Nadareh\" and \"A Persian Guide to the Turkish Language\" in 1759 with an introduction of Sir Gerard Clauson.\nIn 1768, King Christian VII of Denmark visited England. He took with him the book of Nader Shah, written by Mirza Mehdi Khan Astarabadi and asked Sir William Jones (1746-1794), orientalist and specialist in the history of old India, to translate it into French. This, in turn, led to the publication of the (not entirely accurate) book, \"Histoire de Nader Chah\", in 1770. This translation by William Jones was then later translated into German and Georgian.\n\n"}
{"id": "542835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542835", "title": "Montreal Screwjob", "text": "Montreal Screwjob\n\nThe Montreal Screwjob (also called the Montreal Incident; French: \"Le Coup Tordu de Montréal\") was an infamous and controversial unscripted professional wrestling incident in which World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now World Wrestling Entertainment/WWE) owner Vince McMahon and WWF employees covertly manipulated the pre-determined outcome of the match between Bret Hart and Shawn Michaels at the 1997 Survivor Series. The pay-per-view (PPV) event was held on November 9, 1997, at the Molson Centre in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The manipulation – a \"shoot screwjob\" in professional wrestling parlance – occurred without Hart's knowledge and resulted in Hart, the reigning WWF World Heavyweight Champion, losing the title to Michaels in Hart's last match with the WWF before departing for rival promotion World Championship Wrestling (WCW). The \"screwjob\" is generally believed to be an off-screen betrayal of Hart, who was one of the WWF's longest-tenured and most popular performers at the time.\n\nHart won the WWF World Heavyweight Championship at SummerSlam in August 1997. A week prior to Survivor Series, Hart, who had performed for the WWF since 1984, signed a contract to perform with WCW beginning in December 1997. McMahon sought to prevent Hart from leaving the company as the champion, but Hart was unwilling to lose the title to Michaels – with whom he had a long feud both on-screen and off – at Survivor Series in his home country. Hart, Michaels, and McMahon came to an agreement where the Survivor Series match would end with a disqualification, which under normal rules would result in Hart retaining the title. Hart would then lose or forfeit the title at a later date. However, McMahon decided without Hart's knowledge that Michaels would win the title at Survivor Series. Accounts differ as to who exactly was involved in the plan and the extent of their involvement. The plan was executed when match referee Earl Hebner, on direct order from McMahon, ended the match as Michaels held Hart in the Sharpshooter submission hold, Hart's signature finishing move, even though Hart had not submitted. Michaels was declared the victor by submission and crowned as the new WWF World Heavyweight Champion.\n\nThe Montreal Screwjob has garnered a notorious legacy both on-screen and off, and was partly chronicled in the documentary film \"\" (1998). The far-reaching impact of the incident led to its adoption as a theme in matches and storylines of the WWF's \"Attitude Era\" and the creation of the character, \"\", the evil boss. Many wrestling fans, and several within the business, believe the entire incident was an elaborate work executed in collaboration with Hart. Nonetheless, Hart was ostracized from the WWF while McMahon and Michaels continued to receive angry responses from audiences for many years in Hart's home country of Canada. Hart and McMahon later reconciled, and Hart was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame on April 1, 2006. On the January 4, 2010 episode of \"WWE Raw\", Hart, in his first live appearance on WWE television since the 1997 Survivor Series, had a lengthy on-screen discussion with Michaels about the Montreal Screwjob and other events in their past, and agreed to call a truce, bringing closure to the incident after more than 12 years. Hart would defeat McMahon at WrestleMania 26 in a match built around lingering animosity from the Screwjob. Longtime industry writer Mike Johnson referred to the 1997 Survivor Series bout in which the Screwjob occurred as \"arguably the most talked-about match in the history of professional wrestling\".\n\nAt the time of the screwjob, Bret Hart was a 14-year veteran of the WWF, having started his career in the 1980s as one-half of the popular Hart Foundation tag team with his brother-in-law Jim Neidhart. After the team had two reigns as the WWF Tag Team Champions, Hart then achieved tremendous success as a singles performer in the 1990s, twice taking the Intercontinental Heavyweight Title, and then winning the WWF World Heavyweight Championship five times. Hart took a seven-month leave of absence from the company after WrestleMania XII, during which he negotiated both a new contract with the WWF and an offer from its rival, World Championship Wrestling. In October 1996, Hart declined a three-year, $8.4 million offer from WCW, opting to sign an unprecedented 20-year deal that he had been offered by McMahon, which promised to make him the highest-paid wrestler in the company and secure him a major role with the company management following his retirement. Both Hart and the WWF saw the contract as an expression of mutual loyalty.\n\nBy mid-1997, the WWF was facing financial difficulties due to stiff competition from WCW, which had become the largest professional wrestling promotion in the United States. At the same time, McMahon was planning to make the WWF a publicly traded company, a move which required him to minimize any long-term financial commitments.\n\nFor several months prior to Survivor Series, Hart and Shawn Michaels had several backstage arguments including a fight before a house show in Hartford, Connecticut (after Michaels had publicly accused Hart of having an affair with Sunny), which saw Michaels suspended for two months. After a show in San Jose, California on October 12, 1997, Hart claimed he spoke to Michaels about being professional and trusting one another in the ring. Hart allegedly said he would have no problem losing to Michaels if McMahon requested. Hart also claimed that when Michaels replied that he would never lose to Hart, Bret was shocked and became angry. This led to Hart's outright refusal to lose the WWF World Heavyweight Championship to Michaels at the pay-per-view event in Montreal, although in , Hart states to McMahon that he would happily drop the belt but not in Canada. However, in his own autobiography, Michaels refuted Hart's claim, saying that he would have cleanly lost to Hart had storylines demanded so (however others, including Jim Cornette in various shoot interviews, have often refuted this saying that they knew first hand that Michaels had no intention of jobbing to Hart). Michaels also pointed out that he had lost cleanly to Hart several times in the past, most notably in the WWF's first ever ladder match at a \"Wrestling Challenge\" taping on July 21, 1992, which would subsequently be made available on multiple Coliseum/WWE Home Video releases and in the main event of Survivor Series 1992. Michaels also lost to Hart in a Steel Cage match in December 1993.\n\nMcMahon believed he made the right choice in fighting for Hart to return, which kept him from joining rival WCW in 1996. However, by late 1997 the WWF's monetary problems were at an all-time high. McMahon began to defer payments to Hart, claiming that the WWF was in \"financial peril.\" At this time, McMahon reviewed the WWF's plans for the future, and saw the likes of Stone Cold Steve Austin, The Undertaker and D-Generation X leading what was to become \"The Attitude Era\". His plans included many stars, but not Hart; as such McMahon encouraged Hart to reopen negotiations with WCW.\n\nWhile Hart considered an offer from then-WCW President Eric Bischoff, McMahon informed Hart that the WWF would honor his contract if he chose to stay. However, when Hart talked to McMahon about future plans and storylines, he was disappointed by McMahon's response and what he considered lackluster suggestions. As seen in the documentary, \"\", Hart acknowledged around this time that his career had been sabotaged by nationalist changes to his character. Throughout 1997, \"The Hitman\" regularly criticized America and deemed it inferior to Canada, drawing the ire of American audiences and yet winning him the respect of WWF's sizable Canadian fan-base; this rendered Hart neither a definite hero nor a villain and left him unable to properly enter into feuds with other wrestlers. Hart had also been unhappy about McMahon's move towards more controversial subject matter, which the World Wrestling Federation would later call \"The Attitude Era\". Convinced that McMahon's future plans did not include him, Hart resigned from the WWF. He signed an agreement with WCW, which had just offered him a large $3 million per annum contract on November 1, 1997. McMahon was worried about the possibility of him entering WCW as the WWF World Heavyweight Champion. Hart asked McMahon if he would be mocked after leaving for WCW, as had occurred with other wrestlers who had transferred to WCW from the WWF; for example, in the previous year the WWF had made fun of Hulk Hogan and \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage in vignettes referring to them as \"The Huckster\" and \"The Nacho Man\", in addition to having Glenn Jacobs and Rick Bognar portray \"Diesel\" and \"Razor Ramon\", characters that Kevin Nash and Scott Hall had made famous before their 1996 departure from the WWF. McMahon assured him that nothing of the sort would happen. Despite this, on the night after the Montreal Screwjob on \"Monday Night Raw\", D-Generation X performed a segment mockingly re-enacting the match between Michaels and Hart, with a midget dressed as Bret.\n\nHart's imminent move to WCW created a tense situation, as he had won the WWF World Heavyweight Championship at SummerSlam 1997 from The Undertaker. Hart's WCW contract was scheduled to begin on December 5, one month after the WWF's annual Survivor Series event, which was to be held in Montreal. Shawn Michaels, the leader of the emerging stable D-Generation X had been booked into a main event title match with Hart. McMahon, anxious for Hart to give up the title, sought Hart's consent to job to Michaels. Hart didn't want to give up the title to a member of The Kliq (which included Michaels, Kevin Nash, Scott Hall, Hunter Hearst Helmsley and Sean Waltman), apparently standing up for the rest of the locker room. As part of their rivalry storyline, Michaels had repeatedly performed acts insulting the Canadian flag and Canadian fans, which had also upset Hart. Wrestling fans also knew of Hart's long-standing personal difficulty with Michaels—Hart had been angered at Michaels' forfeiture of the WWF World Heavyweight Championship in February 1997, which ruined plans for a Hart–Michaels rematch at WrestleMania 13 where Michaels was expected to lose the title to him. Hart also believed that Michaels had faked a knee injury and talked about major surgery just to get out of their planned match. While Michaels denied rumors that he did not want to lose to Hart, and indeed Hart wound up winning the title shortly after Michaels relinquished it, Hart felt certain that Michaels would not have offered a loss in return if he had been staying with the WWF. The two had been involved in a real fight after Michaels implied that Hart was having an affair with WWF valet Sunny. The recent storyline rivalry had also seen Michaels make insulting remarks about Hart's father Stu Hart, which had left Bret and others in the Hart family upset. McMahon's offering of an estimated $3 million contract to Hart in 1996 had reportedly also upset Michaels.\n\nMcMahon remained insistent about Hart dropping the title. The WWF owner was anxious over Hart pulling a move like that of former employee Debrah Miceli. Miceli, a veteran women's wrestler who has competed under the name Madusa for most of her career, performed as Alundra Blayze in the WWF in 1993 and 1995 and won the Women's Championship during her stay there. McMahon, however, had neglected to renew her contract when it expired and Miceli signed with WCW where she changed her ring name back to Madusa. When she made her first appearance on \"WCW Monday Nitro\", Madusa made fun of her time in the WWF and brought her title belt with her to the program, dumping it into a trash can. McMahon feared a repeat, despite claims from Bischoff (according to Hart's DVD biography) that legal issues between the WWF and WCW would prevent such a thing, and that he would rather have Hart join WCW with a \"clean slate\". Hart continued to refuse to drop the title to Michaels, offering to lose the title anywhere in the United States prior to \"Survivor Series\" or to surrender the title to McMahon on the episode of \"Monday Night Raw\" the day after \"Survivor Series\", in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. After several disagreements, McMahon, Michaels and Hart agreed to a proposal of a disqualification finish, which would be the result of a brawl between Hart's allies Owen Hart, Jim Neidhart, and Davey Boy Smith with Michaels's allies Triple H and Chyna, who would interfere in the match to aid Michaels. Hart would then lose or forfeit the title at a later date, as he was not due to start in WCW until December. Hart also asked for and obtained McMahon's permission for an opportunity to explain his actions, his heel character, praise McMahon and the WWF and thus leave on good terms with the company and the fans.\n\nAt some point in the days leading up to Survivor Series, however, McMahon began to reconsider that decision. Word of Hart's impending departure from the company had leaked to fans and wrestling news sources. McMahon was worried that allowing Hart to remain champion after the match at \"Survivor Series\" would cause problems and reckoned that Bischoff was still prone to doing anything he could to get under McMahon's skin and McMahon thought he would be likely to mention the signing of Hart to WCW on \"Nitro\" the following night (something Bischoff said would not have happened under normal circumstances). Furthermore, Bischoff would have a one-hour head start on McMahon due to \"Nitro\" going on the air live at 8 PM, which would have been more than enough time to announce Hart's WCW arrival. Therefore, McMahon felt, he needed to find a way to get the title off of Hart.\n\nOn November 8, 1997, one day before Survivor Series, McMahon met with Pat Patterson and Michaels in a hotel room in Montreal and planned the screwjob. It is unclear how many people knew of the impending screwjob, but McMahon's close aides Gerald Brisco and Sgt. Slaughter had been involved in the planning. Jim Ross has insisted that he did not know the screwjob would take place, although many, including various members of Hart's family, thought he was involved. In a radio interview, Ross also confirmed that Jerry Lawler also did not know that the screwjob would take place. Hart and Michaels had met with Pat Patterson to discuss the match setup and plan, during which Hart agreed to allow Michaels to put him into the Sharpshooter hold at a time when the referee would be unconscious, as Patterson suggested. The rest of the match was planned to proceed thus: Hart would grab Michaels' foot and reverse the hold, putting him in the Sharpshooter. Michaels would submit to the hold, but the referee would still be unconscious. Hart would let go of the hold to try to revive the referee, but Michaels would hit Hart with his finisher, Sweet Chin Music, and make the pin. A second referee would then run to the ring with Owen Hart, Jim Neidhart, and Davey Boy Smith following close behind. The second referee would start the count, but Owen and Davey Boy would break the pin. The original referee would then recover and start to make the count, but Hart would kick out, setting up about five more minutes of brawling that would result in a disqualification.\n\nIn his 1998 documentary \"Hitman Hart: Wrestling with Shadows\", Hart said that his fears were largely assuaged because he was close friends with referee Earl Hebner and trusted him implicitly. Asked by Hart, Hebner swore by his children that he would never double-cross Hart and that he would rather quit his job than participate in a screwjob. However, according to Michaels' account of the events in his 2005 autobiography, \"Heartbreak and Triumph: The Shawn Michaels Story\", Michaels himself informed Hebner of the plan only on Sunday evening, just as Survivor Series was about to commence. This contradicted what Hebner said on a 2003 edition of \"WWE Confidential\", claiming that he first knew of McMahon's plan only ten minutes before the match finished, and out of panic following the bell ringing, he ran out of the ring, through the crowd and remained in his hotel room for the night, refusing to speak to anyone.\n\nTensions and excitement were high as the wrestlers and officials congregated for Survivor Series. Hart was anxious over the match finish and had been warned of the prospect of a screwjob by his brother-in-law and Hart Foundation member Davey Boy Smith as well as Vader, who had experienced similar situations while wrestling in Japan. They advised Hart to be alert, not lie on his back for too long, kick out from pinfall counts immediately so as to avoid a fast count, and not allow himself to be placed in submission holds.\nThe Molson Centre in Montreal was sold out, with more than 20,000 fans in attendance. Rumors of Hart's imminent departure from WWF had leaked and consequently heightened the fan interest in the match. The mixed signals and a war of words between Hart, McMahon, Michaels and WCW further heightened anticipation. Emotions were also running high due to the Hart–Michaels rivalry and the \"U.S. vs. Canada\" storyline. While both men had been cordial with each other backstage, WWF officials ordered the deployment of a large number of company agents around the ring as a precaution if Hart decided to attack Michaels or McMahon in reaction to the double-cross. Highly unusual for any wrestling match, the deployment was explained on television as a necessary precaution in wake of the intense animosity between Hart's and Michaels' characters. There was also some legitimate concern that Michaels could be attacked during the planned in-crowd brawl, by fans angered at his actions of demeaning the Canadian flag. Michaels' entrance was greeted by loud booing and upon entering the ring, he proceeded to rub the Canadian flag against his crotch, picked his nose with it and later humped it—Michaels maintains that this flag desecration was actually suggested by Hart as an effective way to draw heat and emotion. The palpable anger of the fans was converted into raucous cheering as Hart entered the ring carrying the Canadian flag and wearing the championship belt. Hart, however, was visibly disturbed when segments of the crowd that were aware of his move to WCW jeered him with chants of \"You sold out!\" as the match progressed.\n\nOnce the match began, Hart and Michaels brought their performance outside the ring and into the crowd, while being followed by McMahon and WWF officials. As the climax of the match approached, the two wrestlers returned to the ring while WWF officials continued to order more personnel to ringside. Hart first became suspicious as to why Vince McMahon was not at the announcers' table to perform commentary, and why the on-screen commissioner Sgt. Slaughter was also standing at ringside with Vince McMahon. Nevertheless, the match continued. As planned, Michaels pushed Hebner in front of him as Hart jumped from the top turnbuckle, sending all three men to the canvas. Michaels and Hart both got up, but Michaels performed a rake on Hart's eye, sending Hart back to the mat. Michaels then proceeded to grab Hart's legs to execute the Sharpshooter maneuver. At this point, the match director was heard shouting instructions into his headset for Hebner to get up, but Hart did not notice anything amiss. Mike Chioda, the referee who was supposed to run in after Hebner went down, began yelling back that Hebner was not supposed to be up yet. Pat Patterson reacted in a similar way, and Owen Hart and Davey Boy Smith, who were waiting for their cues to run in, remained backstage in a state of confusion. Michaels was then seen by many viewers as having glanced at Hebner as he put Hart in the sharpshooter, which some saw as proof that he was in on the scheme. Contrary to their agreed plan, Michaels tightened the hold and refused to offer his own leg to Hart for the latter to break out of the hold. At that moment, Hebner got to his feet, looked toward timekeeper Mark Yeaton, and shouted, \"Ring the bell!\" McMahon then elbowed Yeaton hard and yelled, \"Ring the fucking bell!\" Yeaton rang the bell just as Hart reached forward and grabbed Michaels' leg, which broke the hold and caused Michaels to fall. Michaels' theme music then began playing and the ring announcer declared him the winner and the new WWF World Heavyweight Champion. Hebner had already exited the ring and was on his way out of the arena. After an initial moment of shock, Hart got to his feet, approached the apron where McMahon was standing and spat directly in his face, while Michaels feigned confusion. Michaels was ordered by McMahon to \"pick up the damn belt and get the hell out of here!\" Michaels left the arena with Brisco and Triple H and the broadcast signal cut off almost immediately after Michaels exited, with the last shot being a tight closeup of the Survivor Series logo above the entranceway. McMahon and most other WWF officials also quickly made their way backstage as an angry Hart smashed cameras, monitors, and ringside equipment. Fans in attendance also began to vent their fury on McMahon and WWF officials; a few even heaped garbage on them and some who were close enough pushed Michaels as he hurried backstage. Owen Hart, Neidhart and Davey Boy came out to the ring and had a conversation with Bret calming him down. Hart proceeded to finger trace \"W-C-W\" and \"I love you\" to the cheering fans before returning backstage.\n\nWhile much of the live Montreal audience immediately understood what had happened and responded angrily, television viewers had been left largely confused as Jim Ross promptly wrapped up the event on commentary and Survivor Series went off the air four minutes ahead of schedule with the parting image of Michaels holding the belt aloft as he disappeared backstage. Rumors and expressions of surprise and shock pervaded the Internet almost immediately after the match ended. Some observers considered it a creative and all-time great match finish. Observers of professional wrestling speculated whether the entire episode would result in WCW becoming the dominant promotion in Canada, where a large majority of fans had remained loyal to WWF, especially as the Hart family was working with the company.\n\nAs seen on Hart's documentary, Hart proceeded to the dressing rooms and questioned Michaels, who pleaded that he knew nothing about what had taken place and was equally outraged. McMahon locked himself in his office with Pat Patterson and other agents. Mark Calaway, known as The Undertaker, furious with McMahon, banged on the door. McMahon opened and was told he had to apologize to Hart. As recounted in Michaels' autobiography, he was told by McMahon not to say anything about the screwjob to anybody, because McMahon needed to have everyone think that it was only him involved. Michaels offered his assurance that he would not carry the title belt out the next day on \"Raw\" and would refuse to say anything derogatory about Hart. Hart proceeded to the dressing room to shower and change after discovering that McMahon, Brisco, and Remus had locked themselves in McMahon's office. When McMahon went to Hart's dressing room and tried to explain himself, Hart angrily rebuffed him and warned him to leave immediately or risk being punched. An altercation ensued, with Hart giving McMahon a single punch, dropping him to the floor. Although Vince's son, Shane McMahon, and Brisco struggled briefly with Hart and Davey Boy Smith, Hart told them to take McMahon and leave or risk similar consequences. Hart angrily asked McMahon if he was going to screw him on the pay he was still owed, to which a groggy McMahon replied in the negative. In the hallway outside the dressing rooms, Hart's then-wife Julie angrily confronted Triple H and others about the finish, but was escorted away by Owen Hart. McMahon had a black eye and a sprained ankle, which according to Bret Hart, was a result of his punch lifting Vince off the floor and Vince rolling his ankle once he landed. However, McMahon and Brisco have since stated on WWE Confidential that Brisco accidentally stepped on Vince's foot, which as he tried to get back to his feet immediately sprained his ankle and sent him back to the floor, from which he suffered a concussion, and referred to Brisco's action as a 'comedy.' Michaels and Triple H were later confronted and assailed by angry fans outside the Molson Centre and in the lobby of their hotel.\n\nWhile Jim Neidhart, Davey Boy Smith, and Owen Hart had flown out of Montreal with Bret, McMahon faced a major revolt in the WWF locker room. Most wrestlers were outraged at him and threatened to boycott \"Raw\" or leave the company altogether. McMahon addressed a meeting in an effort to mollify the wrestlers who had been outraged that a WWF veteran had been double-crossed by McMahon—many feared for their own future and were suspicious of McMahon. McMahon sought to explain that Hart had been disregarding the company's interests. By refusing to drop the title in Montreal, McMahon claimed Hart was jeopardizing the company's future by creating a potentially embarrassing situation that could affect its fortunes. The potential revolt was also quelled by Hart's counsel to wrestlers who asked him about boycotting \"Raw\" or leaving the company altogether. Hart advised them to fulfill their contractual obligations and not risk their own future over the episode. Both Sunny and Mick Foley did not attend the next night's \"Raw\" show, but returned to work after that due to their contract stipulations. Hart later commented in his autobiography that if Foley returned to WCW, he'd be committing career-suicide. Rick Rude, who was working there briefly as a story line manager for Michaels and was a real life friend of Hart's, called WCW and informed Eric Bischoff of what had transpired, and also returned to WCW two days after the events in Montreal mostly due to his disgust over Hart's treatment. Rude appeared on both \"WWF Raw is War\" and \"WCW Monday Nitro\" on November 17, 1997. A mustached Rude appeared on \"Nitro\", which was live, and proceeded to criticize Michaels, DX, and the WWF, calling the company the \"Titanic\" (a reference to Titan Enterprises, as WWF's parent company was then known, as the \"sinking ship\"). An hour later on \"Raw\" (which had been taped six days earlier), Rude then appeared with the full beard he'd been sporting during his return to the WWF. Of the Hart family, only Owen continued to work with the company, being unable to terminate his contract.\n\nAt the next night's \"Raw\" in Ottawa, Michaels appeared carrying the WWF title belt and performing a segment where he boasted before the audience of how he beat Hart with his own trademark move in his own country. McMahon gave a televised interview to commentator Jim Ross, explaining his version of events and making the now-infamous statement \"Vince McMahon didn't screw Bret Hart. I truly believe that Bret Hart... screwed Bret Hart.\" Michaels continued his mocking of Hart in the coming weeks, performed a skit badgering a midget dressed up as Hart.\n\nAs McMahon expected, WCW did address Hart and the aftermath of the screwjob on \"Nitro\" from the Mid-South Coliseum in Memphis that same night. Mike Tenay and Tony Schiavone strongly criticized McMahon and Michaels for their actions. The show started with Bischoff making reference to Hart's impending arrival in WCW and his punching McMahon in the face, and he then used his on-air persona as the mouthpiece for the New World Order to claim (kayfabe) that Hart was to join the nWo as soon as he could be signed to WCW. Hollywood Hogan, Kevin Nash, Scott Hall, and the rest of the nWo members stood with Canadian flags and sang the Canadian national anthem.\n\nWCW invoked the Screwjob again at Starrcade 1997, as Hart prevented Hogan from leaving with the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. He claimed that the referee Nick Patrick gave a fast count and that he would not allow Sting to be screwed. The result was what critics called an anti-climax as most had expected Sting to win cleanly on skill alone. At Starrcade 1999, the finish of the match between Goldberg and Hart was for guest referee Roddy Piper to \"ring the bell\" once Hart placed Goldberg in the Sharpshooter despite Goldberg not submitting.\n\nThe \"Montreal Screwjob\" remains one of the most high-profile double-crosses in the history of professional wrestling and the first heavily publicized professional wrestling double-cross since Wendi Richter lost the WWF Women's Championship to a masked Fabulous Moolah following a money dispute on November 25, 1985. It is perhaps the most controversial match in the history of the WWF, with the effects of its outcome being felt for over a decade later due to its notoriety and the infamous legacy it left in the company. Hart was ostracized by McMahon and later refused offers of induction to the WWF Hall of Fame. The Hart family expressed outrage with McMahon and WWF for their neglect and the lack of safety precautions that could have prevented Owen Hart's later accident and eventual death. The documentary \"Hitman Hart: Wrestling with Shadows\" included footage of McMahon's conversations with Hart in which he affirmed the planned disqualification finish and expressed determination for Hart to exit \"the right way\" and as amicably as possible—McMahon did not know that the conversation was being recorded. In the recordings, Hart refused to drop the title to Michaels.\n\nThe Montreal Screwjob's impact defined later storylines and rivalries. The WWF successfully tapped fan outrage at McMahon over the incident by creating the persona of \"Mr. McMahon\" — an authoritarian and arrogant heel boss who imposed his own will and authority on rebellious characters such as Stone Cold Steve Austin. Within the storylines, McMahon \"screwed\" such wrestlers in order to hand the title to the performer of his choice. The \"Bret screwed Bret\" line inspired promos that McMahon made during his feud with Austin. At , McMahon sat at ringside, placed strategically near the timekeeper, during Austin's title defense against Dude Love, which caused Austin to allude to the Montreal Screwjob during a promotional interview. At Survivor Series 1998—the first anniversary of the screwjob—McMahon's son Shane, a match referee, abandoned his on-screen rebellion against his father and allowed his father to screw Austin, by refusing to count Austin's pinfall against Mankind. The McMahons then double-crossed Mankind in his main event title match against The Rock later that night. Just as The Rock put the Sharpshooter hold on Mankind, McMahon called for the bell to be rung, even though Mankind did not submit. The Rock was declared the winner by submission and the new WWF Champion, fully re-enacting the Hart double-cross, this time with a switch between the respective face and heel characters.\n\nSince then, professional wrestling storylines, including some storylines written by WWE, continue to refer to the screwjob whenever a title match ends under controversial circumstances.\n\nWWF eventually surpassed its arch-rival WCW. With its business steadily declining and a corporate takeover of its parent company (Time Warner) by America Online, WCW was put up for sale and purchased by Vince McMahon in 2001, once again making WWF the single-largest wrestling company in North America. Bret Hart's entry into WCW had been hailed at the time as a major coup for the company, but it subsequently failed to utilize his popular appeal. Hart's active wrestling career ended in 2000 after he suffered a serious concussion during a match with Goldberg. After dropping the WWF title to Austin at WrestleMania XIV in 1998, Michaels was forced into retirement for four years due to a serious back injury. After a long period of rehabilitation, Michaels returned to the ring in 2002, and eventually retired in 2010 at WrestleMania 26, losing a Streak vs. Career match to The Undertaker in the show's main event, but came out of retirement eight years later in 2018.\n\nAfter weeks of speculation, WWE.com announced in late August 2005 that Hart and WWE had agreed to collaborate on a DVD project chronicling Hart's wrestling career. In subsequent interviews, Hart attributed his decision to his desire to be remembered for his storied career that spanned two decades. The project, which had been given the working title of \"Screwed: The Bret Hart Story\", was renamed \"\". In the 2005 DVD chronicling his career, both Hart and Bischoff denied that his holding the WWF title was a factor in WCW's desire to sign him. While McMahon claimed that there was mutual regret, Hart defended his actions and asserted that he stood by what he did. Hart was interviewed about the DVD and his career by Todd Grisham on the November 16, 2005 edition of \"Byte This!\", marking Hart's first appearance on WWE programming since the Montreal Screwjob.\n\nHart's refusal to lose to Michaels in Montreal has been criticized by others such as Ric Flair, who asserted that it was Hart's responsibility to drop the title belt of a company he was leaving (Flair himself was WCW champion when he left the company and signed with the WWF in 1991, even appearing on TV with the NWA/WCW belt, but also dropped the WWF Title to Hart on October 12, 1992 in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan at a house show). Hart, however, maintains that he was prepared to lose the title anywhere and to anyone, except to Michaels in Canada given that, during 1997, his \"Hitman\" character had been built up as a great Canadian hero. As his contract with WWF did not expire for four more weeks, Hart asserts that there was plenty of time and several other opportunities for him to drop the title. Several accounts claim that McMahon had originally proposed that Hart drop the title at December's pay-per-view in Springfield, Massachusetts, or at January's Royal Rumble in San Jose, California.\n\nAlthough Michaels expressed happiness at Hart's 2006 induction into the Hall of Fame, the Hart–Michaels relationship remained laced with antagonism. Michaels criticized Hart's behavior and conduct during his days in WWF in his 2005 autobiography, comparing the Screwjob to a \"mafia hit,\" and Hart has stated in his 2007 autobiography that he would \"never forgive\" Michaels. In interviews prior to the induction ceremony, Hart asserted that he would walk out from the ceremony if he saw Michaels anywhere on the WrestleMania 22 weekend. Michaels decided to leave the Hall of Fame ceremony early to avoid a possible scene. Hart did not appear at the WrestleMania show in a mini-ceremony with the other inductees, explaining in an interview that he had never intended to attend or appear at the show. Hart would later return to WWE television on the June 11, 2007 edition of \"Raw\", where he appeared in a taped promo spot mocking Mr. McMahon's \"appreciation night.\" While he was able to reconcile to a degree with McMahon, Hart had never reconciled with Michaels. In a November 17, 2008 radio interview, Hart mocked Michaels' version of the incident, saying, \"Shawn's this Christian today; and in his book, he wrote that Vince took a dive and that I never even hit him and I thought, 'This guy is such a liar'. I wonder what kind of Christian he is.\" Asked if he had seen or spoken to Michaels since 1997, Hart said, \"No. And I hope I never do... for his sake.\"\n\nHowever, in 2009 Bret Hart stated in an interview with Sky Sports that he will forgive Michaels, if Shawn apologizes first, saying \"For me I don't really have much issue with it anymore. If you asked me that up until probably about a year ago I'd have probably said something different. But I've cooled off a bit now. I don't want to carry it around anymore. If he wanted to apologize I would accept it. I'd move on but I wouldn't forget it.\" He also put over the Michaels-Undertaker match at WrestleMania XXV, saying he was proud of both men's efforts and that despite his personal feelings towards Michaels, he always had the utmost respect for his abilities. Similarly, Michaels has commended Hart's abilities, calling him a \"sheer joy\" to work with in the ring.\n\nOn the December 14, 2009 episode of \"Raw\", Vince McMahon came out to announce the nominees for Guest Host of the Year during the Slammy Awards. After announcing Bob Barker as the recipient of the award, McMahon asked guest host Dennis Miller who he would like to see as a \"Raw\" guest host. Miller said he would like to see his long-time favorite, Bret Hart. McMahon dismissed Miller's suggestion, reminding him that the last time Hart was in the WWE was when \"Bret screwed Bret,\" and that he likely would have no interest in hosting the show. Miller then asked the audience if they would like to see Hart as a guest host, to applause, but McMahon simply walked away. On December 16, Dave Meltzer of the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" reported that Hart had signed a four-month contract with WWE, and would debut as the guest host of \"Raw\" on January 4, 2010. On December 28, WWE.com confirmed that McMahon would be at \"Raw\" that night to address the rumors about Hart hosting the show. That night, McMahon confirmed that Hart will indeed be guest host on the January 4 episode of \"Raw\". A WWE.com article published shortly after the December 28 edition of \"Raw\" alluded to an \"almost guaranteed encounter between the WWE Chairman and the Hit Man.\"\n\nBret returned on the January 4, 2010 episode of \"Raw\", and promptly called out Michaels in order to bury the hatchet. Hart and Michaels then aired their grievances with one another while recognizing that their Ironman match at Wrestlemania XII ought to be the highlight of their relationship rather than the Montreal Screwjob. The pair shook hands and Michaels turned as if to deliver Sweet Chin Music, but instead chose to embrace Hart. While many cast doubts on the sincerity of their reconciliation, Hart has confirmed that it was indeed genuine, as did Michaels, and acknowledged that he felt that Michaels changed as a person, for the better. Later in the night, a storyline between Hart and McMahon began with the two appearing to have their own reconciliation only to have McMahon subsequently kick Hart in the gut: in real life, Hart and McMahon have been on slight speaking terms since 2002, when McMahon called Hart during his recovery from a stroke. The feud culminated in an encounter at WrestleMania 26, which saw Hart defeat McMahon in a match that involved the Hart family. After the match, Hart would continue to periodically work televised events for WWE.\n\nHart appeared on the September 10, 2012 episode of Raw at the Bell Centre in Montreal, marking his return for the first time to the same building where the Screwjob occurred, where he took part in an interview segment featuring John Cena and WWE Champion CM Punk. However, the episode was overshadowed by Jerry Lawler's real on-air heart attack earlier in the evening, from which he eventually made a full recovery. He also briefly appeared during the 2013 Royal Rumble, giving a pep talk to Alberto Del Rio before his World Heavyweight Champion title bout with Big Show. On the May 27, 2013 episode of Raw, it was named 'Bret Hart Appreciation Night'. Bret was pictured in the evening speaking to the likes of Kane, Daniel Bryan and Cena among others. At the end of the show, Michaels and Lawler handed him a plaque commemorating his career. The following week, Bret took part in 'WWE Inbox', a webshow held by WWE on its YouTube channel where Bret answered fans' Twitter questions.\n\nIn his 2005 autobiography \"Heartbreak and Triumph: The Shawn Michaels Story\", Michaels stated that it was Triple H's idea, while the sharpshooter spot had been suggested by Hart. \"We were talking things through, and Bret came up with this spot where I get him in the Sharpshooter and then he reverses it by pulling on my leg\". Indirectly corroborating this assertion is Hart's own testimony in his autobiography \"Hitman\", that \"Pat Patterson told me that he thought it would be a heckuva spot to let Shawn put me in the Sharpshooter and then reverse it on him,\" which would indicate that Patterson had initially proposed the \"Sharpshooter\" spot to Bret. However, in the same work, Hart also states, \"I found myself jostling with Jerry Brisco, who I would find out later was the one who had designed the whole Screwjob for Vince.\"\n\nAdding to this confusion, Vince Russo states in his book \"Forgiven\" that it was he who proposed the match's ending to McMahon: \"'Vince - we're making this way too difficult,' I said. 'Why don't we just do this? During the course of the match, let's have a spot where Shawn puts Bret in his own hold - the Sharpshooter. As soon as Shawn clamps it on, have the referee call for the bell as if Bret quit...'\". Jim Cornette, in his 2010 YouShoot Shoot Interview, denies Russo's claims of originating the screwjob, stating that Russo was not part of the meetings planning the screwjob at any time, appeared totally oblivious as to what had occurred while watching the event on a television backstage, and had to have the entire concept of a 'screwjob' explained to him. Cornette also told how he suggested Vince and creative have Ken Shamrock \"double-cross\" Hart for the title – as Hart was reportedly willing to drop the belt to anyone except Michaels – therefore unwittingly introducing the concept of a screwjob to McMahon and co.\n\nIn his book \"Heartbreak & Triumph\", Michaels states \"It was about seven o'clock when I walked into the locker room. There were only a few people in there and none were close to Earl. He was putting on his referee gear and I started to put my boots on. 'Earl, I need you to listen to me very carefully.' I was speaking very softly. 'We are doing a big swerve tonight. I am going to get Bret in the Sharpshooter and I need you to ring the bell.'\" However, Hebner states that Brisco was the person to tell him of the plan.\n\nMichaels states in \"Heartbreak & Triumph\" that during planning he was told \"'This cannot be discussed with anyone. Pat can't know, nobody can know about this but the three of us right now'\", \"We had the meeting, and as everyone was leaving, Vince asked me, Hunter, and Jerry Brisco, a longtime agent and close confidant of Vince's, to stay. We sat down and talked\", and \"Pat was in the room with us, and he had no idea what was going to happen. He had a strong relationship with Bret. He wouldn't have done it, and Vince knew that. That's why he didn't tell Pat...\". However, in Dave Meltzer's online account of events before, during, and after the Screwjob, he states \"Vince McMahon held a meeting at the hotel with Jim Ross, Jim Cornette, Pat Patterson and Michaels. Reports are that at least two of the aforementioned names looked extremely uncomfortable leaving the meeting\" which suggests that Patterson may in fact have been in on the Screwjob. This is corroborated by a Pro Wrestling Torch article from November 15, 1997 by Wade Keller which states, \"However, a two-hour meeting was held on the second floor of the Montreal Marriott on Saturday night with McMahon, Jim Ross, Pat Patterson, Jim Cornette, and Michaels. Bret was wrestling that night in Detroit. There is some belief that at this meeting McMahon proposed the idea of the finish to whoever of that group wasn't already in on it. Ross and Patterson entered the meeting in a good mood and when they were seen in the hotel lobby afterwards, were said to be irritable, forlorn, and shaken.\"\n\nIn addition, Hart states in \"Hitman\", that while conversing with Michaels: \"I added, 'I also want you to know that I have no problem dropping the belt to you if that's what Vince wants.' He glared back at me. 'I appreciate that, but I want you to know that I'm not willing to do the same for you.' And then he left. Jim [Neidhart] snorted, 'I can't believe that he just said that.' There was no way I could ever drop the belt to him now: he'd just shown complete disrespect not only to me, but to the position of champion...\" This exchange is confirmed in Dave Meltzer's account: \"During the meeting, Hart told Michaels that he'd be happy to put him over at the end of the run, but Michaels told Hart flat-out that he wouldn't return the favor. Michaels and Hart spoke again on the subject on 10/12 in San Jose, when once again Michaels told Hart that he wasn't going to do a job for him.\" Additionally, in \"Forgiven\" Vince Russo stated, \"Well - no surprise here - Bret refused to do the job (get pinned) for Shawn in Canada. Not because he was being unprofessional - but because according to Bret, Michaels had said that he wouldn't \"do business\" with him (the right thing for the company in the ring), due to the way he felt about him.\"\n\nMany wrestling fans, and several within the business, believe the Montreal Screwjob was a work, and that Hart was acting in collaboration with McMahon. Longtime pro wrestling journalist Bill Apter, along with industry veterans Kevin Nash, Scott Hall, Bam Bam Bigelow, Road Dogg, George Steele, Chris Kanyon, Steve Corino, Tony Mamaluke, Justin Credible, Paul Bearer, and Sunny, have gone on record saying they believe this to have been the case (Sunny reported that her former boyfriend, Chris Candido, also subscribed to this notion). Shawn Michaels recalled people saying that the screwjob \"had to be a work\", and claimed that McMahon \"took a dive\" and \"sold like he sells on TV\" when struck by Hart backstage following the incident.\n\nJerry Lawler, who served as ringside commentator for the match, found it plausible that Hart was working with McMahon. This position was shared by Hart's nephew Teddy Hart, as well as by his former colleagues Demolition (Ax and Smash), Road Warrior Animal, Steve Blackman and Sean Waltman. Waltman, who claimed to know Hart well, was bewildered as to how Hart could not have seen the screwjob coming \"a million miles away\", and felt there was a \"high possibility\" of the incident being a work. Waltman added that Hart would not have told anyone, including his wife, about his involvement, and deduced: \"I think [the screwjob] was so compartmentalized that the guys that were in on it don't even know who else was.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10222369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10222369", "title": "Muhammadu Junaidu", "text": "Muhammadu Junaidu\n\nMuhammadu Junaidu (1906 – 9 January 1997) was a Nigerian historian, writer and one of the foremost scholars on Fulani history and the Sokoto Caliphate. He was also a vizier or Waziri of Sokoto and was noted as a prolific writer.\n\nHe was born into an elite family, the Gidado family of Sokoto, which had produced a large number of viziers for the caliphate. As a youth, he was tutored by Islamic scholars and was gradually introduced to his family's advisory tradition. However, Junaidu was not tamed by the Sokoto environment and education, he wanted to learn more about other Islamic countries in Africa. He traveled to Sudan, Senegal, Saudi Arabia and a few other countries to study amongst other things their legal codes. After returning to Nigeria, he took to reading and writing, he wrote over 30 books, and over time was appointed Head of the Kadi School in 1942, a member of the Sultan's council from 1948, and a legal adviser to the Northern house of Chiefs after Nigeria;'s independence.\n\nHe is remembered today as a respected guardian of materials on the Sokoto caliphate and having one of the largest archives of pre-twentieth century West African correspondence. He was both reformer and believer in culture. He tried to present a suitable bridge between change and tradition through critical analysis of past norms and values and placing beneficial values in concord with mainstream or reformist education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38579941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38579941", "title": "Murad Meneshian", "text": "Murad Meneshian\n\nMurad Meneshian is a research chemist, journalist, translator, and researcher.\n\nOf Armenian descent, Meneshian is a research chemist who has worked for Abbott Laboratories, Zenith corporation, and Bell Laboratories at AT&T/Lucent technologies, where he received a patent. His articles have been published in the \"Proceedings of the Third International Symposium on Very Large Scale Integration Science and Technology\". He has engaged in many studies of Armenia and Mesopotamia. He has translated from Armenian to English Vaham Hampartsumian's Guighashkharh and is engaged in a study of the life and works of famed Armenian writer Raffi. For many years he has been a regular contributor to the \"Armenian Weekly\".\n\nHis book \"Raffi: the prophet from Payajuk\" has been awarded Book of the Week by the Armenian Weekly.\n\n"}
{"id": "7752415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7752415", "title": "Navarrese Company", "text": "Navarrese Company\n\nThe Navarrese Company (, ) was a company of mercenaries, mostly from Navarre and Gascony, which fought in Greece during the late 14th century and early 15th century, in the twilight of Frankish power in the dwindling remnant of the Latin Empire. \"Navarrese Company\" is an informal, modern, and somewhat inaccurate term for these soldiers.\n\nThe first Navarrese Company was formed to fight for Charles II of Navarre against Charles V of France. In 1366, after peace was made, the mercenaries were organised into a coherent company of soldiers under Louis, Count of Beaumont-le-Roger in his own right and Duke of Durazzo in right of his wife, Joanna. Louis was a brother of Charles of Navarre, who supported his endeavour to recapture lost Durazzo and the \"regnum Albaniae\". Charles of France likewise aided him with 50,000 ducats. \n\nIn 1372, the Navarrese ranks began to swell through the recruiting techniques of Enguerrand VII de Coucy, who was hired to form a force of 500 lances and 500 mounted archers, mostly from Gascony. Though these soldiers were recruited for service in Albania, they were first organised in Naples. In 1375 and 1376, many men from Navarre began enlisting and travelled directly to Albania to join their countrymen. The enrollment lists for those years have been preserved in Pamplona and reveal the important presence of many engineers. The total number of men which left Tortosa between February 1375 and June 1376 was in the thousands. They were paid thirty gold Aragonese florins a month. \n\nIn 1376, Louis and the Navarrese captured Durazzo, thus reestablishing the \"regnum Albaniae\". Louis died that same year, leaving the Navarrese unemployed. They put themselves under at the command of the Peter IV of Aragon early in 1377 and were formed as four companies, commanded by four captains: the Gascon Mahiot of Coquerel and Pedro de la Saga and the Navarrese Juan de Urtubia and Guarro. \n\nThe Navarrese entered Morea in the spring or early summer of 1378, some coming at the invitation of Gaucher of La Bastide, the Hospitaller prior of Toulouse and commandant in the Principality of Achaea and others probably at the bequest of Nerio I Acciaioli. Gaucher hired Mahiot and the remnant of the company for eight months during the captivity of the Grand Master Juan Fernández de Heredia. Meanwhile, Juan de Urtubia was in Corinth with a following of more than 100 soldiers. \n\nAfter leaving the service of the Hospital, the Company took up with James of Baux, the latest claimant to Achaea. Indeed, Mahiot and the Navarrese governed the entire Morea under the auspices of James of Baux. In 1379, Urtubia with a large force invaded Boeotia and sacked Thebes—then under the control of the Catalan Company—with the assistance of the archbishop of the city, Simon Atumano. At this point, the Navarrese Company takes on a different character. Some men who had served under Urtubia are with Mahiot in the Morea again. The Company organised itself as a viceregal power in Achaea under three captains: Mahiot, Pedro de San Superano, and Berard de Varvassa. For the next two years, the Navarrese governed Achaea and often hired itself out to the Hospital. \n\nWhen James of Baux succeeded to the imperial title of Constantinople, the Navarrese leaders received imperial titles for upholding his rights in Achaea. When James died in 1383, the Navarrese were the reigning power in Frankish Greece and it fell to them the responsibility of reorganising the state and securing a new prince. While the Navarrese refused to recognise the heirs of James without proof which was too costly to provide, they remained in power in Achaea and were licensed by the barons of the realm to negotiate the treaty of 26 July 1387 with the Republic of Venice. In 1386, Pedro de San Superano succeeded Mahiot as the Company's leader.\n\n"}
{"id": "1520354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1520354", "title": "Neil MacGregor", "text": "Neil MacGregor\n\nRobert Neil MacGregor, (born 16 June 1946) is a British art historian and former museum director. He was the editor of the \"Burlington Magazine\" from 1981 to 1987, then Director of the National Gallery, London, from 1987 to 2002, Director of the British Museum from 2002 to 2015, and is currently the founding director of the Humboldt Forum in Berlin. \n\nNeil MacGregor was born in Glasgow to two doctors, Alexander and Anna MacGregor. He was educated at Glasgow Academy and then read modern languages at New College, Oxford, where he is now an honorary fellow.\n\nThe period that followed was spent studying philosophy at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris (coinciding with the events of May 1968), and as a law student at Edinburgh University, where he received the Green Prize. Despite being called to the bar in 1972, MacGregor next decided to take an art history degree. The following year, on a Courtauld Institute (University of London) summer school in Bavaria, the Courtauld's director Anthony Blunt spotted MacGregor and persuaded him to take a master's degree under his supervision. Blunt later considered MacGregor \"the most brilliant pupil he ever taught\".\n\nFrom 1975 to 1981, MacGregor taught History of Art and Architecture at the University of Reading. He left to assume the editorship of \"The Burlington Magazine\". He oversaw the transfer of the magazine from the Thomson Corporation to an independent and charitable status.\n\nIn 1987 MacGregor became director of the National Gallery in London. During his directorship, MacGregor presented three BBC television series on art: \"Painting the World\" in 1995, \"Making Masterpieces\", a behind-the-scenes tour of the National Gallery, in 1997 and \"Seeing Salvation\", on the representation of Jesus in western art, in 2000. He declined the offer of a knighthood in 1999, the first director of the National Gallery to do so.\n\nMacGregor was made director of the British Museum in August 2002, at a time when that institution was £5 million in deficit. He has been lauded for his \"diplomatic\" approach to the post, though MacGregor rejects this description, stating that \"diplomat is conventionally taken to mean the promotion of the interests of a particular state and that is not what we are about at all\".\n\nHis tenure included many exhibitions that were more provocative than the museum had previously done or told stories from unique perspectives that were notably less Eurocentric than previous exhibits, including a project celebrating the Hajj. He similarly made comments that sparked debate, such as his claim that the ancient Persian empire was greater than Ancient Greece.\n\nIn 2010, MacGregor presented a series on BBC Radio 4 and the World Service entitled \"A History of the World in 100 Objects\", based on objects from the British Museum's collection.\n\nFrom September 2010 to January 2011 the British Museum lent the ancient Persian Cyrus Cylinder to an exhibition in Tehran. This was seen by at least a million visitors by the Museum's estimation, more than any loan exhibition to the United Kingdom had attracted since the \"Treasures of Tutankhamun\" exhibition in 1972.\n\nHolding his office during a period which has seen the Acropolis Museum constructed in Athens, he has consistently argued against returning the British Museum's controversially held sculptures from the Parthenon (the \"Elgin Marbles\") to Greece. A poll in 2014 suggested that more British people (37%) supported the marbles' restoration to Greece than opposed it (23%).\nHis predecessor as director David Mackenzie Wilson had also tried to justify the British Museum position during a live 1983 television encounter with Greek actress and Minister of Culture Melina Mercouri, an encounter subsequently viewed as embarrassing for the British Museum. On his part, MacGregor has stated that it is the British Museum's duty to \"preserve the universality of the marbles, and to protect them from being appropriated as a nationalistic political symbol\" and that \"there is no legal system in Europe that would challenge the [British Museum's] legal title\" to the works. The legal basis of various Ottoman documents, now lost and possibly non-existent, to which the British Museum has traditionally appealed in order to claim ownership of the Marbles is however increasingly subject to dispute. Under the directorship of MacGregor, \nthe Museum controversially rejected UNESCO mediation.\nIn supporting his case for ownership of the Parthenon Marbles, MacGregor has had to argue exclusively in English, as he can neither read nor speak Greek. In view of the increasing international pressures on Britain following Brexit, and the activity of the\nInternational Association for the Reunification of the Parthenon Sculptures, it is unclear for how much longer MacGregor's rejection of the case for repatriation will be tenable. In 2018, after MacGregor's term as Director ended, British Labour party leader Jeremy Corbyn vowed to repatriate the Marbles to Athens, if necessary overriding the British Museum trustees:\n\n\"As with anything stolen or taken from occupied or colonial possession – including artefacts looted from other countries in the past – we should be engaged in constructive talks with the Greek government about returning the sculptures.\"\nIn January 2008, MacGregor was appointed chairman of the World Collections programme, for training international curators at British museums. The exhibition \"The First Emperor\", focussing on Qin Shi Huang and including a small number of his Terracotta Warriors, was mounted in 2008 in the British Museum Reading Room. That year MacGregor was invited to succeed Philippe de Montebello as the Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. He declined the offer as the Metropolitan charges its visitors for entry and is thus \"not a public institution\".\n\nAs of 2015, MacGregor was paid a salary of between £190,000 and £194,999 by the British Museum, making him one of the 328 most highly paid people in the British public sector at that time. MacGregor retired from the post in December 2015 and was succeeded in Spring 2016 by Hartwig Fischer, director of the Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden.\n\nOn 8 April 2015, MacGregor announced his resignation as Director of the British Museum. It was announced that MacGregor would become founding director and head of the management committee of the Humboldt Forum in Berlin, and that he would make recommendations to the German government on how the future museum can draw on the resources of the Berlin collections to \"become a place where different narratives of world cultures can be explored and debated\". The three-member management committee also includes the co-directors, archaeologist Hermann Parzinger and art historian Horst Bredekamp.\n\nOne of MacGregor's proposals is to make the museum admission-free, based on the model of the British Museum.\n\nMacGregor has made many programmes for British television and radio. In the year 2000, he presented on television \"Seeing Salvation\", about how Jesus had been depicted in famous paintings. More recently, he has made important contributions on BBC Radio Four, including \"A History of the World in 100 Objects\" and, in 2012, a series of fifteen-minute programmes after The World at One called \"Shakespeare's Restless World\", discussing themes in the plays of William Shakespeare.\n\nAt the end of September 2014 UK domestic transmission started of his similarly formatted Talk Radio series \"Germany: Memories of a Nation\".\n\nIn 2017, MacGregor hosted a BBC Radio Four series \"Living with the Gods\", on faith and society, liaising with Sabyasachi Mukherjee, Director of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya in Mumbai, on the presentation of world cultures.\n\nMacGregor was listed in \"The Independent\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s 2007 list of \"most influential gay people\" and was single .\n\nOn 4 November 2010, MacGregor was appointed to the Order of Merit by Queen Elizabeth II. On 25 March 2013 MacGregor was appointed an Honorary Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) by the Governor-General of Australia Quentin Bryce, \"for service to promoting Australia and Australian art in the United Kingdom\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51897205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51897205", "title": "Nikolaos Kasomoulis", "text": "Nikolaos Kasomoulis\n\nNikolaos Kasomoulis (, 1795–1872) was a participant in the Greek Revolution of 1821, and one of the main historical sources about it.\n\nHe was born either in the village of Pisoderi, whence his family hailed, or in Kozani, and grew up in Siatista. His father Konstantinos was a merchant. As a youth, Nikolaos moved to Serres to expand the family business. There, in 1820, he joined the \"Filiki Etaireia\".\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the Greek War of Independence, Kasomoulis took part in the uprising in the region of Mount Olympus and Chalcidice, where he co-operated with the chieftain Diamantis Nikolaou. His father, who in the meantime had moved to Naoussa, was killed there during the sack of the town by the Ottomans in April 1822. Following the suppression of the revolution in Macedonia, Kasomoulis went to Thessaly with a band of men from Siatista, where he joined the forces of Nikolaos Stournaris and Georgios Karaiskakis. In 1826 he took part in the Third Siege of Missolonghi, along with his brothers Dimitrios and Georgios. He composed the written decision for attempting a final sortie, and was responsible for coordinating the actions of the various detachments participating in the sortie. During the sortie, his brother Dimitrios was mortally wounded.\n\nKasomoulis occupied various military positions under Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias and King Otto. In 1836, he participated in the suppression of the anti-Otto uprisings, during which his other brother, Georgios, was also killed. He received the rank of Colonel in the Royal Phalanx, but is commonly known as a general, a rank he never held. At an advanced age he settled in Stylida, where he died in 1872.\n\nKasmoulis is best known for his memoirs («Ενθυμήματα στρατιωτικά της Επαναστάσεως των Ελλήνων 1821-1833», \"Military Memoirs of the Revolution of the Greeks 1821-1833\"), originally written in 1832, and completed in 1842. In 1861, Kasomoulis completed them with a history of the Armatoloi, marking the first attempt at a comprehensive treatment of the Greek Revolution and its historical causes. As a historical source, Kasomoulis' memoirs rank among the most important works for the study of the Greek Revolution.\n"}
{"id": "2784456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2784456", "title": "R. C. Majumdar", "text": "R. C. Majumdar\n\nRamesh Chandra Majumdar (known as R. C. Majumdar; 4 December 1884 – 11 February 1980) was a historian and professor of Indian history.\n\nComing from a Baidya family, Majumdar was born in Khandarpara, Faridpur, Bengal Presidency, British India (now in Bangladesh) on 4 December 1884, to Haladhara Majumdar and Bidhumukhi. In 1905, he passed his Entrance Examination from Ravenshaw College, Cuttack. In 1907, he passed F.A. with first class scholarship from Surendranath College and joined Presidency College, Calcutta. Graduating in B.A.(Honours) and M.A. from Calcutta University in 1909 and 1911 respectively, he won the Premchand Roychand scholarship from the University of Calcutta for his research work in 1913.\n\nMajumdar started his teaching career as a lecturer at Dacca Government Training College. Since 1914, he spent seven years as a professor of history at the University of Calcutta. He got his doctorate for his thesis \"Corporate Life in Ancient India\". In 1921 he became professor of history in newly established University of Dacca. He also served, until he became its vice chancellor, as the head of the Department of History as well as the dean of the Faculty of Arts. Between 1924 and 1936 he was Provost of Jagannath Hall. Then he became the vice chancellor of that University, for five years from 1937 to 1942. From 1950, he was Principal of the College of Indology, Benares Hindu University. He was elected the general president of the Indian History Congress and also became the vice president of the International Commission set up by the UNESCO for the history of mankind.\n\nMajumdar started his research on ancient India. After extensive travels to Southeast Asia and research, he wrote detailed histories of Champa (1927), Suvarnadvipa (1929) and Kambuja Desa. On the initiative of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, he took up the mantle of editing a multi-volume tome on Indian history. Starting in 1951, he toiled for twenty six long years to describe the history of the Indian people from the Vedic Period to the present day in eleven volumes. In 1955, Majumdar establishes the College of Indology of Nagpur University and joined as principal. In 1958-59, he taught Indian history in the University of Chicago and University of Pennsylvania. He was also the president of the Asiatic Society (1966–68) and the Bangiya Sahitya Parishad (1968–69), also the Sheriff of Calcutta (1967–68).\n\nWhen the final volume of \"The History and Culture of the Indian People\" was published in 1977, he had turned eighty-eight. He also edited the three-volume history of Bengal published by Dacca University. His last book was \"Jivaner Smritidvipe\".\n\nWhen the Government of India set up an editorial Committee to author a history of the freedom struggle of India, he was its principal member. But, following a conflict with the then Education Minister Maulana Abul Kalam Azad on the Sepoy Mutiny, he left the government job and published his own book. \"The Sepoy Mutiny & Revolt of 1857\". According to him the origins of India's freedom struggle lie in the English-educated Indian middle-class and the freedom struggle started with the Banga Bhanga movement in 1905. His views on the freedom struggle are found in his book \"History of the Freedom Movement in India\". He was an admirer of Swami Vivekananda and Ramakrishna Paramahamsa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52749243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52749243", "title": "Salma Mardam Bey", "text": "Salma Mardam Bey\n\nSalma Mardam Bey ( ) is a Syrian writer and historian.\n\nMardam Bey was born in Syria into a family of Turkish origin. Her father, Jamil Mardam Bey, was the former Syrian Prime Minister. She studied in the Faculty of Oriental Studies at the University of Oxford, where her thesis was entitled \"Syria, 1939-45, as depicted by the Mardam Bey papers\".\n\nShe is renowned for publishing the memoirs of her father, Jamil Mardam Bey, dating from 1939 to 1945. Her first book was initially written in French entitled, \"La Syrie et la France: Bilan d'une equivoque, 1939-1945\" (1994), and then translated into English entitled, \"\"Syria's Quest for Independence, 1939-1945\" (1997). The book has also been translated into Arabic, entitled \"Awrak Jamil Mardam Bey\"\".\n"}
{"id": "49285260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49285260", "title": "Subjectification (linguistics)", "text": "Subjectification (linguistics)\n\nIn historical (or diachronic) linguistics, subjectification (also known as subjectivization or subjectivisation) is a language change process in which a linguistic expression acquires meanings that convey the speaker's attitude or viewpoint. This is a pragmatic-semantic process, which means that inherent as well as contextual meanings of the given expression are considered. Subjectification is realized in lexical and grammatical change. It is also of interest to cognitive linguistics and pragmatics (cf. Ronald Langacker and Elizabeth Traugott).\n\nFrom a synchronic perspective, subjectivity can be expressed in language in many ways. First of all, the subject is implied in discourse through any speech act. Subjectivity can also be expressed in many grammatical categories, such as person, valence, tense, aspect, mood, evidentials, and deictic expressions more generally.\n\nThe most prominent research on subjectification to date comes from linguists Elizabeth Traugott and Ronald Langacker. In Traugott's view, subjectification is a semasiological process in which a linguistic element's \"meanings tend to become increasingly based in the speaker's subjective belief state/attitude toward the proposition\". From Langacker's standpoint, \"an expression's meaning always comprises both subjectively and objectively construed elements, and it is individual conceptual elements within an expression's meaning that, over time, may come to be construed with a greater degree of subjectivity or objectivity\".\n\nTraugott also discusses \"intersubjectification\", alternatively calling subjectivity \"(inter)subjectivity\" and subjectification \"(inter)subjectification\". She writes,\n\nIn my view, subjectification and intersubjectification are the mechanisms by which:\n\nSubjectification occurs in conversation (through speech acts and has rhetorical aims, and thus implies some degree of intersubjectivity. Intersubjectification does so more blatantly through its \"development of meanings that explicitly reveal incipient design: the designing of utterances for an intended audience...at the discourse level\" and requires subjectification to occur in the first place.\n\nTraugott and Dasher schematize the process of subjectification elsewhere in the following cline:\n\nnon-subjective > subjective > intersubjective \n\nGrammaticalization is an associated process of language change in which \"lexical items and constructions come in certain linguistic contexts to serve grammatical functions, and once grammaticalized, continue to develop new grammatical functions\". The processes of subjectification and intersubjectification do not necessarily result in grammaticalization, but there is still a strong correlation between the two. As shown in the cline above, subjectification is theorized to be a unidirectional process; in other words, meanings tend to follow the path from left to right and do not develop in the reverse direction. Grammaticalization is likewise suggested to be a unidirectional phenomenon.\n\nTraugott proposes that the epistemic adverb \"evidently\", which initially meant 'from evidence, clearly' and later developed into a subjective adverb, underwent subjectification:\n"}
{"id": "3762849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3762849", "title": "Svat Soucek", "text": "Svat Soucek\n\nSvat Soucek (full name: Svatopluk Souček) is a compiler and author of works in relation to Central Asia, and Central Asian studies. He was born in Prague, Czech Republic. He has a PhD in Turkish and Arabic studies from Columbia University. He works in the Oriental Division of the New York Public Library. His works include \"Piri Reis and Turkish Mapmaking After Columbus\" (1996), \"A History of Inner Asia\" (2000), \"The Persian Gulf: Its Past and Present\" (2008), and \"The History of the Maritime Wars of the Turks\" (2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "23106095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23106095", "title": "Sykes Bleaching Company", "text": "Sykes Bleaching Company\n\nThe Sykes Bleaching Company was a cotton bleaching business established in Edgeley, near Stockport in 1792 which grew to become one of the largest bleaching enterprises in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe bleaching business was established in 1792 by William Sykes. Sykes had been born at Wakefield and had been active in the cloth industry at Halifax and Manchester. On 27 November 1792 an advertisement appeared in the Manchester Mercury to let land at Edgeley, Stockport, Cheshire as\nAn Eligible situation for Bleach Ground or Print Field in which there are a number of Fine White Sand Springs with a Rivulet capable of Turning Wash Wheels etc. The Grounds lie very contiguous to the populous Manufacturing Town of Stockport where Bleachers and Printers are both much wanted and every encouragement will be given to a good tenant\n\nWilliam Sykes took the land, first renting, but later purchasing it, and built a bleach works. To bleach cloth, it was repeatedly steeped in natural alkaline solutions derived from ash, called \"bucking\". It was then washed and exposed to sun and air by being hung out in the bleachfields (known as \"crofts\"). After being immersed in buttermilk, called ‘souring’ it received final washing, stretching and drying. The process could take up to eight months and with cloth in the open, a watchman was employed to guard Sykes crofts at night. Theft of cloth from a croft was an offence liable to capital punishment. Handloom weavers from Edgeley, Stockport, Adswood, Cheadle and Cheadle Hulme brought cloth to the works for bleaching and these were sold on to Manchester and London merchants. An early list of Sykes customers includes well-known names as Oldknow of Nottingham, Radcliffe of Stockport (a pioneer of the fine muslin industry) and Cadbury of Birmingham, a silk mercer and father of the founder of the well-known chocolate firm. The list also mentions names of customers as far afield as Boston, Massachusetts America and Messina Italy.\n\nWhen Sykes settled in Stockport, there were few trees in the area. As wood was needed in the drying process, he undertook extensive tree-planting on land which later became public property in Alexandra Park. He built a \"stately house\" Edgeley House, which was the home of the family for succeeding generations. The works were originally driven by water power, but in 1803 the works was provided with a 12 horse-power steam engine. By 1804 new chemical methods had been introduced using calcium hypochlorite which eliminated the need for grassing the cloth in the fields but required more water.\n\nEdmund Sykes succeeded his father in the business some time before 1809. In 1812, Luddite demonstrators attacked the works and threatened the Sykes family in their home until they were dispersed by the militia. Edmund Sykes employed Pickfords and other proprietors of stage-wagons to distribute the wares. In 1820, Edmund's younger brother Richard joined the business which was then carried on under the name of E & R Sykes. In 1828 Edmund Sykes retired from the business and went to live at Mansfield Woodhouse, Nottinghamshire. Under Richard Sykes' ownership, the business at Edgeley developed rapidly and every effort was made to modernise the plant. Wells were sunk including the \"Silver Well\" was sunk, and by 1830 these had quadrupled the water supply. Reservoirs were also built. These undertakings were of great value to people in the area in times of excessive drought. Richard Sykes also took a keen interest in public affairs. He was Justice of the Peace for Cheshire, Alderman for Stockport, and Mayor in 1850-1851. He was an active member of the Society of Bleachers. Sykes and Co were interested in the use of science in the bleaching industry, and their books include exhaustive tests made by them comparing different manufacturer's bleach. They also employed John Dalton, the chemist, as consultant on the quality of their water supply. Richard Sykes died in 1876 and his son Thomas Hardcastle Sykes succeeded to the business, undertaking speculative ventures at home and overseas.\n\nSykes became a limited liability company in 1892 but management remained in the family including Thomas Sykes' son, Alan, known as Jack. However, there was severe internal competition within the bleaching trade, which discouraged long-term investment, so the business did not develop the technical and scientific knowledge as much as foreign. As a result, the Bleacher's Association was created in June 1900, amalgamating around 60 businesses in bleaching and finishing of cotton goods. These were mainly in Lancashire to exploit the monopoly of water supply, but included some in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Jack Sykes became one of its original directors together with his cousin Frank Sykes, the son of Edmund. After the retirement of Thomas Sykes, Jack continued the management of the Edgeley works following the longer-term interests of the Association, through a cautious financial policy. After its formation, the Bleacher's Association continued to buy up its competitors and to make trade-sharing agreements with the Calico Printers and Bradford Dyers. Between 1901 and 1910 nine works were purchased and a further 21 works were purchased after World War I. The Association opened its new headquarters, Blackfriars House, in 1926, and its silver jubilee was commemorated by the publication of Jack Sykes's \"Concerning the Bleaching Industry\". However the success of the Bleacher's Association, in maintaining high profits on a declining volume of trade, could not last. Prices were reduced in 1928 and from then on trade was severely restricted by the long term decline in export of British textiles.\n"}
{"id": "34171222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34171222", "title": "Theristai", "text": "Theristai\n\nTheristai (, also known as \"Reapers\" or \"Harvesters\"), is a lost satyr play by Attic playwright Euripides. It was initially performed at the Dionysia in Athens in 431 BCE along with the tragedies \"Medea\", \"Philoctetes\" and \"Dictys\". The tetralogy finished in 3rd place, behind tetralogies by Euphorion (Aeschylus' son), who won 1st prize, and Sophocles.\n\nThe play was recorded as having been lost as early as 200 BCE by Aristophanes of Byzantium in his hypothesis for \"Medea\". No fragments have been assigned to Theristai. It has been suggested that this play may be an alternate title for Euripides' lost play \"Syleus\", for which several fragments are extant.\n"}
{"id": "34539158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34539158", "title": "Thiepval barracks bombing", "text": "Thiepval barracks bombing\n\nThe Thiepval Barracks bombing was a double car bomb attack carried out by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) on 7 October 1996. The bombs exploded inside Thiepval Barracks, the British Army headquarters in Northern Ireland. One British soldier was killed and 31 people were injured. This bombing was the first major attack on a military base in Northern Ireland since the ending of the IRA's ceasefire on 9 February 1996, when it exploded a large bomb in London's Docklands.\n\nThe Provisional IRA ended its 1994 ceasefire on 9 February 1996, when a massive truck bomb went off in the London Docklands area, resulting in two deaths and causing huge damage, especially around the South Quay railway station. The IRA strategy was to pressure the British government by bombing England, but without rejecting the peace process and without returning to full-scale operations. At first, there were no prospects of resuming the campaign in Northern Ireland, to defuse potential all-out sectarian violence. However, a series of successful police raids in England lead a decision by the IRA to restart its operations in Northern Ireland.\n\nOn 7 October 1996, two Provisional IRA operatives gained access to the base using forged passes based on the identity card of a former British soldier who had joined the IRA. They drove two car bombs several hundred yards into the Thiepval Barracks in Lisburn, which housed the British Army headquarters in Northern Ireland. The first car bomb detonated near a travel arrangement centre, injuring many people. When the wounded were moved to the military medical centre, the second car bomb detonated there, catching the victims of the first blast as well as the medical staff helping them. The medical centre was reduced to rubble. There was a lapse of 12 minutes between the first and the second blast. There were 31 injured, four of them seriously. A British soldier, Warrant Officer James Bradwell, died four days later of multiple wounds. He was the first soldier to be killed in Northern Ireland since 1994.\n\nThe attack coincided with the beginning of the Conservative Party conference in Bournemouth and a meeting between loyalist prisoners and members of the Progressive Unionist Party (PUP) in the Maze prison. The IRA claimed responsibility on 8 October, in a telephone call to RTÉ news in Dublin. The IRA statement said the target had been barracks personnel and said injuries to civilians were regretted. According to one source, the main security failure that allowed the IRA to penetrate the base was the external security checkpoints and cameras. At first, the RUC's main suspect was a man in his 40s \"with a black beard, dark hair and blackrimmed glasses\", although investigators thought it was a disguise. A north Belfast man was eventually charged for the bombing on 1 November 1996.\n\nSinn Féin leader Gerry Adams was reluctant to confirm whether or not the IRA was involved, and vowed for talks with the British government and the unionist parties. He warned however that \"There has been a protracted political vacuum here. If we don't fill that vacuum with real talks then it will be filled with the sort of serious incidents we saw yesterday\".\n\nJohn Bruton, then Taoiseach of the Republic of Ireland, called the bombing a \"cynical betrayal of the peace process\" by the IRA, while PUP leader David Ervine appealed to loyalists not to seek retaliation for the bombing. John Major, the British prime minister, made clear that \"the IRA would not bomb its way into the Stormont talks\".\n\nThe attack was seen as a confirmation that the IRA had given up any hope of achieving a political breakthrough until the next British general elections in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "904593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904593", "title": "Timeline of luminiferous aether", "text": "Timeline of luminiferous aether\n\nThe timeline of luminiferous aether (light-bearing aether) or ether as a medium for propagating electromagnetic radiation begins in the 18th century. The aether was assumed to exist for much of the 19th century—until the Michelson–Morley experiment returned its famous null result. Further experiments were in general agreement with Michelson and Morley's result. By the 1920s, most scientists rejected the aether's existence.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53911450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53911450", "title": "Timeline of the Trump presidency, 2017 Q2", "text": "Timeline of the Trump presidency, 2017 Q2\n\nThe following is a timeline of the presidency of Donald Trump during the second quarter of 2017. To navigate between quarters, see Timeline of the presidency of Donald Trump.\n\nReal GDP growth increased at an annual rate of 2.6%, up from a slow 0.7% in the preceding quarter. This was due to a smaller decrease in private inventory investment, an acceleration in PCE, and an upswing in federal government spending. These gains were offset by decreases in exports and fixed investments. On June 30, 2017 the US national debt stood at $19.84 trillion, representing a quarterly decline of approximately 0.01% and a decline of approximately 0.46% since President Trump's inauguration.\n\nAccording to FiveThirtyEight, President Trump concluded this quarter with an approval rating of 39.9%, representing a quarterly decline of 0.6%, and a decline of 5.6% since his inauguration.\n\n"}
{"id": "38472636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38472636", "title": "Tula (Mesoamerican site)", "text": "Tula (Mesoamerican site)\n\nTula is a Mesoamerican archeological site, which was an important regional center which reached its height as the capital of the Toltec Empire between the fall of Teotihuacan and the rise of Tenochtitlan. It has not been well studied in comparison to these other two sites, and disputes remain as to its political system, area of influence and its relations with contemporary Mesoamerican cities, especially with Chichen Itza. The site is located in the city of Tula de Allende in the Tula Valley, in what is now the southwest of the Mexican state of Hidalgo, northwest of Mexico City. The archeological site consists of a museum, remains of an earlier settlement called Tula Chico as well as the main ceremonial site called Tula Grande. The main attraction is the Pyramid of Quetzalcoatl which is topped by four, four metre high basalt columns carved in the shape of Toltec warriors. Tula fell around 1150, but it had significant influence in the following Aztec Empire, with its history written about heavily in myth. The feathered serpent god Quetzalcoatl is linked to this city, whose worship was widespread from central Mexico to Central America at the time the Spanish arrived.\n\nThe Tula site is important to the history of Mesoamerica, especially the central highlands of Mexico, but it is generally overshadowed by its predecessor Teotihuacan and one of its successors, Tenochtitlan. The name Tula is derived from the Nahuatl phrase Tollan Xicocotitlan, which means 'near the cattails'. However, the Aztecs applied the term Tollan to mean 'urban center', and it was also used to indicate other sites such as Teotihuacan, Cholula and Tenochtitlan. The inhabitants of Tula were called Toltecs, but that term was later broadened to mean an urban person, artisan or skilled worker. This was due to the high respect in which the indigenous peoples in the Valley of Mexico held the ancient civilization before the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire.\n\nWhat remains of the ancient city is located in the southwest of what is now the state of Hidalgo, 75 km north of Mexico City. Geographically, it is in the Tula River Valley, at the south end of the Mesquite Valley in a region that indigenous records called Teotlapan (land of the gods). This area has an elevation of between 2000 and 2200 meters above sea level, with a semi-arid climate. It has only three continuously flowing rivers and streams, the largest of which is the Tula River. There are also a number of arroyos that flow during the rainy season.\n\nThe modern archeological site consists of the ceremonial center of Tula Grande, an area called Tula Chico, the Jorge R. Acosta site museum and the Guadalupe Mastache Orientation center. The museum is at the entrance to the site and is named after one of the archeologists who worked on the site for years. The interior is organized into various sections and contains sculpted stone works as well as human remains. The Orientation center also contains a number of archeological pieces as well as posters and more explaining the site’s importance and relation to the rest of Mesoamerica.\n\nThe city is aligned at 17 degrees east of true north, similar to structures at Teotihuacan although the first village was aligned with true north between 700-900CE. The ceremonial center of the city is located on a limestone outcropping, with steep banks on three sides, making it defensible. War and sacrifice are prominent themes at the site with images representing warriors such as jaguars and coyotes as well as eagles eating human hearts. There are also images of serpents eating skeletal figures and skulls in various areas. The main structures of the ceremonial center include two pyramids, including with the atlas figures, two main Mesoamerican ballcourts and several large buildings, one with a series of columns which faced a large plaza. The main ceremonial area has a number of architectural innovations that indicate societal changes. The large central plaza has space for 100,000 people. On three sides, there are long meeting halls with ceilings supported by columns all facing the plaza with over 1000 meters of benches, which have stone reliefs depicting warriors and others in procession. The architecture indicates a change from rituals performed by only a few people in closed spaces to large ceremonies to be viewed by many. These ceremonies were dominated by warriors.\n\nThe major attraction of the site is Pyramid B also called the Pyramid of Quetzalcoatl or of the Morning Star. It is a five-tiered structure similar to the Temple of the Warriors at Chichen Itza. At the top of Pyramid B are four massive columns each carved in the likeness of Toltec warriors which once supported the roof of the temple on top of the pyramid. Each warrior figure is of basalt, four meters high, with an atlatl or spear thrower, incense, a butterfly shaped chest plate and a back plate in the shape of a solar disk. A large vestibule fronts the pyramid and connects it to nearby buildings. Today this vestibule and building (Building C) are a space filled with broken columns. Building C is better known as the Burnt Palace named after evidence that it was burned. This pyramid is also surrounded by the Coatepantli or serpent wall, which was later the inspiration for a similar structure in Tenochtitlan.\n\nThe earliest well-defined settlements in the Tula area appear around 400 BCE. Tula was probably settled by people of various ethnic backgrounds which may have included the Nonoalcas and the Chichimecas from the south and north respectively. The area probably was under the political control of Teotihuacan in the Epiclassic period, according to Teotihuacan designs found on Tula pottery. The area’s lime deposits were probably an important source for the plaster used in construction. At this time Tula was a small urban settlement with modest public architecture concentrated at Tula Chico (Small Tula). The constructions at Tula Chico are smaller than those in other Epiclassic sites, and was probably a minor player in the political and economic activity of the time. Tula Chico’s occupation is from 650 to 900. From 650 to 750, Tula Chico developed, and at its height spanned five to six km, parts of which may be buried under Tula Grande. The population was somewhere between 19,000 and 27,000 at its height. Tula Chico was abandoned between 850 and 900CE, and Tula Grande began to develop. After the decline of Teotihuacan, there was a power vacuum with city states dominating small regions. Tula ceramics change during this period, as styles and techniques come under new influences. At the same time, settlement patterns of the area significantly changed with occupation mostly on hilltops and high hillsides. Architecture and pottery show influence from the west and north, with some from the east, suggesting a multiethnic population.\n\nThe city rose to prominence after the fall of Teotihuacan and reached its height between 900 and 1150. Although Tula Grande (Big Tula) grew to be larger than anything contemporary with it, it never grew to the size of Teotihuacan. The city at its height probably covered 14km with a population of about 60,000 with another 20,000 to 25,000 in the surrounding 1000km, dominated by the ceremonial center of Tula Grande. Urban and rural house units indicated the importance of extended family groups but the scale of these seemed to have become smaller over time. Tula had defensive fortification at Las Ranas and Toluquilla against the Chichimecas. Its political sphere is thought to include most of the present state of Hidalgo, into the Valley of Mexico and possibly into the Toluca Valley and the Bajío. Much of this is done by comparison of ceramics but this can indicate political or economic influence.\n\nAt that time, Tula was a fertile region near obsidian mines and on an important trade route. Its economic base was agriculture and the mining and crafting of obsidian. It appears the craft was practiced by about half of the occupants, along with the working of travertine and ceramics, taking over this function from Teotihuacan. Tula probably did not rule an empire but may have ruled a regional state. Long range contacts are indicated by the appearance of ceramics from eastern Mesoamerica, grey-green plumbate from southern Guatemala and polychrome ceramics from Costa Rica. Tula probably traded obsidian in return. The socioeconomics of Tula society is thought to have consisted of a ruling elite class, a craftsmen class, a merchant class and a large number of farm workers. Most of the farm workers were outside Tula proper with most of the other classes in the city. Excavations in the area have found evidence of the cultivation of chili peppers, amaranth, squash and maguey along with corn and beans. A number of wild plants were harvested including mesquite beans and cactus fruit. There is evidence of domesticated turkey and dog. Irrigated corn was the most important crop with anywhere from 3000 to 10000 hectares cultivated. It may not have been enough to feed the large population. There is an unoccupied area varying from one to three km wide which was probably agricultural. It has been proposed that the area received more rainfall during the Classic period than now which may have allowed for more large scale agricultural production without irrigation.\n\nIt is probable that they had a form of hieroglyphic writing system, but no evidence exists except for an occasional glyph on a structure. \n\nTula did not last as long as other Mesoamerican dominions. Around 1000, there were problems created by the leeching of soil and the drying of the climate. This moved Chichimecas south from their drying homelands creating ethnic strife which eventually resulted in the city’s collapse. Many of the living quarters appear to have been abandoned by 1150. It is not known when the ceremonial center fell but it was burned and the pyramids destroyed. There is evidence of the ceremonial center being burned in the 12th century. Ethnohistoric sources mention other rulers and a king list was developed from them. The chronology dates the destruction of Tula around 1179 while under the rule of Ce Acatl Topilitzin. However this story has been disputed.\n\nAfter the end of Tula, the site was looted, but it continued to be occupied through the rest of the Mesoamerican period and on into the colonial period. According to Bernardino de Sahagún, craftspeople were still found in Tula at the time of the conquest including scribes, stonecutters, masons, feather workers, potters and more. \n\nThe site was determined to be that of Tollan and the Toltecs after ethnographic studies and archeological work from the 1950s to the 1970s. However, Tula is not well understood, especially in its relation to its predecessor of Teotihuacan and little has been published. No detailed archeological map of the city exists. Most studies have Tula remaining after the Epiclassic cities such as Teotihuacan collapsed, becoming the major power in the early post classic, but some archeologists dispute this, putting its height earlier with the other cities. Several misconceptions about the site include that it has no system of avenues, was relatively poor, had no walled residential complexes and had only small mound clusters. It did have a grid system but it had several major reorientations. Large residential complexes have been unearthed just outside the ceremonial center. The elite also had access to much of the finest handcrafted items then available in Mesoamerica. The size and nature of the city’s political sphere is in dispute. There are no written records and the archeological evidence is scant.\n\nThere is evidence of Tula influence in other parts of Mesoamerica, mostly seen in pottery in Tula and in other areas. One of the most debated questions is what, if any, relationship there might be between Tula and Chichén Itzá far to the south in the Yucatán Peninsula. The idea comes from the fact that there are similarities in various art and architectural styles. It is certain that neither could have conquered the other, but there is evidence that they may have been connected through trade networks.\n\nBy the time of the Spanish conquest, Quetzalcoatl, the feathered serpent deity was widely worshipped from what is now central Mexico down into Central America. The god is linked to a legendary ruler of Tula, Ce Acatl Quetzacoatl, who was often simply referred to as Quetzalcoatl. Mythological accounts surrounding the fall of Tula have this ruler succumbing to temptation by a dark deity named Tezcatlipoca, causing the destruction of the city. The fallen ruler then wanders to the Gulf Coast, immolates himself becoming the morning star (Venus) .\n\nThe history of the city remained important up through the Aztec Empire and is reported in the codices written after the Spanish conquest. However, most of these stories are heavy in myth. These tend to start with the Toltecs and the city of Tula, followed by the migration of the Mexica to the Valley of Mexico. The stories either portray Tula as a kind of paradise in which the inhabitants master the sciences and arts or a city filled with strife headed for a downfall. In these the last ruler, Quetzalcoatl, is a legendary being with archetypical qualities.\n\nMuch of Toltec history was lost when Izcoatl burned the history books after founding the Aztec Empire. The planning of Tula was adopted by some Aztec city-state rulers for their urban centers.\n"}
{"id": "22667774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22667774", "title": "Victor Schnirelmann", "text": "Victor Schnirelmann\n\nVictor Alexandrovich Schnirelmann (, b. 18 May 1949, Moscow; frequently spelled Shnirelman in his English-language publications) is a Russian historian, ethnologist and a member of Academia Europaea (since 1998). He is a senior researcher of N. N. Miklukho-Maklai Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology at the Russian Academy of Sciences and an author of over 300 works, including over 20 monographies on archaeology. Schnirelmann's main fields include the ideologies of nationalism in Russia and CIS, ethnocentrism and irredentism.\n\nSchnirelmann graduated from historical faculty at Moscow State University in 1971 and in 1977 upheld a thesis in the Ethnography Institute of Soviet Academy of Sciences. In 1990 he defended a thesis in Ethnology and Anthropology Institute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56070996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56070996", "title": "Westerwald Club", "text": "Westerwald Club\n\nThe Westerwald Club () or WWV was founded in 1888 in Selters in the German mountain range of Westerwald and has about 7,000 members in 40 branches. It acts as a local history society for the whole geographical region of the Westerwald. The main club supports and coordinates the activities of its branches and takes responsibility for wider tasks. It is entered in the club register of the Amtsgericht of Montabaur (VR 485). Its branches support the aims of the main club at local level through largely independent initiatives and events.\n\nThe motto of the Westerwald Club is \"Hui! Wäller? - Allemol!\" This slogan was chosen in a 1913 prize competition from over 60 entries. The winner was local poet and farmer, Adolf Weiß (1861–1938) from Mademühlen.\n\nThe meaning of the greeting was explained in his poem: \"Das Hui hat mich der Sturmwind gelehrt, wenn wild er über die Heide fährt, und „Wäller“ wir ja „allemol“ sind, wir trotzen dem Regen, dem Schnee und dem Wind ...\"\n\nThe Westerwald Club is a member of the Associations of German Alpine and Hiking Clubs and supports hiking and tourism. The main club offers multi-day walks through the Westerwald, as well as hiking holidays abroad. The branches organise regular walks and excursions.\n\nThe club waymarks and manages a hiking trail network over 2,300 km long, including the Druidensteig, the Limes Trail and the Westerwald Trail. Many branches maintain their local footpaths. The branches in Aßlar, Herborn and Wetzlar-Niedergirmes also have their own walking hostels, in which hikers may stay overnight at low cost. Walking hostels without accommodation are run by the branches in Blasbach, Dillenburg, Selters and Wißmar.\n\n\nThe following branches of the Westerwald Club have been awarded the Eichendorff-Plakette:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20495984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20495984", "title": "World War II in popular culture", "text": "World War II in popular culture\n\nThere is a wide range of ways in which people have represented World War II in popular culture. Many works were created during the years of conflict and many more have arisen from that period of world history.\n\nSome well-known examples of books about the war, like Nobel laureate Kenzaburō Ōe's \"Okinawa Notes,\" could only have been crafted in retrospect.\n\nThe years of warfare were the backdrop for art which is now preserved and displayed in such institutions as the Imperial War Museum in London and the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich.\n\nIconic memorials created after the war are designed as symbols of remembrance and as carefully contrived works of art.\n\nThe war also figures prominently in many thousands of novels and other works of literature, including many published in the 1990s and 2000s.\n\n\n\n\n\nSocial historians regard the works of popular culture from the World War II era as documents that mirror and define crucial issues and concerns during that time. Individual combatants and those on the home fronts during World War II experienced the war through newspaper reports, radio broadcasts, films, stage plays, books and popular music—all become noteworthy aspects of understanding the period and its impact on what happened afterward.\n\nWorld War II has provided material for many films, television programmes and books, beginning during the war. The film aspect had reached its peak by the 1960s, with films such as \"The Longest Day\" (which had been adapted from a book), \"The Great Escape\", \"Patton\" and \"Battle of Britain\". In the UK the actor Sir John Mills became particularly associated with war dramas, such as \"The Colditz Story\" (1954), \"Above Us the Waves\" (1955) and \"Ice Cold in Alex\" (1958), and was seen as the personification of Britain at war, conveying heroism and humility.\n\nMovies about World War II continued for the rest of the 20th century and into the 21st century, though less in number and included \"Schindler's List (1993 film)\", \" The boy in the Striped Pajamas (2009 film)\", \"The Thin Red Line\" (1998), \"Saving Private Ryan\" (1998), \"Flags of Our Fathers\" (2006) and \"Red Tails\" (2012) about the African American Air Fighter pilots of the Tuskegee Airmen. Movies and television programs about the war continued to be made into the 21st century, including the television mini-series \"Band of Brothers\", \"The Pacific\" and \"Dunkirk\". The majority of World War II films are portrayed from the Allied perspective (increasingly being limited to that of the Americans). Some exceptions include \"Das Boot\", \"Der Untergang\", \"Letters from Iwo Jima\", \"Stalingrad\", \"Joy Division\", and \"Cross of Iron\". World War II used to provide most of the material for the USA TV channel, the History Channel. Mel Brooks used the theme in the fictitious musical \"Springtime for Hitler\" and in his 1968 film and 2001 musical, \"The Producers\".\n\nA number of television comedy sitcoms are based on the war, e.g. \"Hogan's Heroes\" from America, which follows the actions of a group of Allied POWs involved in covert activities. Three British sitcoms from David Croft are \"'Allo 'Allo!\" which makes fun of the French Resistance forces; \"Dad's Army\" which satirizes the British Home Guard, an anti-invasion force of men who are old or in poor health so cannot join the forces; and \"It Ain't Half Hot Mum\" about a Forces Concert Party entertaining troops in India and Burma. In the sixth episode of Fawlty Towers, Basil Fawlty (played by John Cleese) bases his comical routine on the paramount need that he and his staff be polite and \"don't mention the War!\" to their German guests, a task in which he signally and repeatedly fails himself. In 2009, an anime adaptation of the webcomic was released and parodies the characters as countries and their transactions in the war through social adult issues.\n\nMany non-war-related TV shows in the USA, such as The Simpsons, South Park, Family Guy, The Looney Tunes Show and Seinfeld frequently make reference to World War II-related persons and subjects, such as Adolf Hitler, Franklin Roosevelt, battles during the war, The Holocaust and the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. During the war several Donald Duck shorts were also propaganda films.\n\nAlso, some films and TV series attempt to show and educate the future generation about the horror of racism and discrimination when taken into a national frenzy by making films based on the Holocaust and other German war crimes. Movies like Schindler's List, , Life Is Beautiful, The Devil's Arithmetic, The Pianist, The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas and many other films depict the hardship the Jews endured in Auschwitz and other concentration camps.\n\nDue to the still sensitive subject between China, Japan and Korea, the War in the Pacific and the Second Sino-Japanese War is hardly made into any historical war films intended for entertainment use in these countries. However, reference about the ongoing war as a background setting is heavily used as a setpiece to drive the storyline on. For example, Hong Kong martial arts films have used the \"cartoon villain\" portrayal of Japanese soldiers or generals being defeated by the Chinese lead character in an attempt to stop the Japanese from using biological weapons or stealing Chinese treasures (films like \"Fist of Fury\", \"Millionaire's Express\" and \"Fist of Legend\"). Some films that depict Japanese war crimes were also made, such as the controversial exploitation film \"Men Behind the Sun\".\n\nMore serious documentary style films have also been made such as the German made documentary \"Nanking\". However the depiction of the Defense of Sihang Warehouse was made in 1938, one year after the actual Battle of Shanghai, probably one of the earliest Sino-Japanese war film intended for entertainment and moral boosting propaganda. Also recently, to celebrate the Chinese Red Army first victory (out of two major battles the Communists actually fought) over the Japanese, a heavy-handed propaganda film that depict the Battle of Pingxingguan was made in 2005 to commemorate the 60th anniversary. However it was heavily criticised by the government of Taiwan, accusing the PRC government for hiding the truth by discrediting the Nationalist Revolutionary Army who took the brunt of the battles as it was they who did most of the fighting against the invaders in more than twenty battles. Actually, the PRC has made several films focusing on battles fought by Nationalist soldiers, such as the Battle of Taierzhuang and Battle of Kunlun Pass.\n\nSouth Korea, which still has strong anti-Japanese sentiments, recently made a TV series about the Japanese assassination of Empress Myeongseong and the unfair treatment of the Korean people; several films based on Kim Du-han as a freedom fighter were made.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTraditional board wargaming has replicated World War II from the tactical to the grand strategic levels. \"Axis & Allies\" and other such games continue to be popular. Avalon Hill and other wargame companies produced such complex games as \"Squad Leader\" and \"PanzerBlitz\" in the 1970s. Other popular World War II games still in production include Australian Design Group's \"World In Flames\" and Decision Games reproductions of SPI World War II games.\n\nWorld War II has also been replicated through miniatures tabletop wargaming. Games like \"Flames of War\", \"Command Decision\", \"Spearhead\", \"BlitzkriegCommander\" and others have become popular among historical miniature wargamers. A novelty is the upcoming of free internet based wargames in high quality such as \"Final Round\".\n\nOne relatively new development of the \"World War II media franchise\" is that of video games. They are an extremely lucrative aspect of the gaming industry, and many titles are usually released every year. Some established games series about World War II include \"Battlefield 1942\", \"Medal of Honor\", \"Call of Duty\", \"Close Combat\", \"Day of Defeat\", \"\", \"Brothers in Arms\", \"Wolfenstein 3D\", arguably the highest acclaimed Submarine simulator franchise so far - \"Silent Hunter\" \", the Commandos\" series, as well as the grand strategy game \"Hearts of Iron II\". An RTS game was released based on America's western campaign called \"Company of Heroes\". In 2001, a massively multiplayer online game MMORG \"World War II Online\" was introduced, and has thousands of players refighting the 1940 Western Europe campaign. There are however also much older games about the war, the arcade game \"1942\" being one of many examples.\n\nThe Soviet Union incurred the heaviest casualties in World War II, and its history gave rise to an impressive number of films, poetry and prose, both in Russian and in many other languages of the country. The cultural homage to the Soviet soldiers and victims of World War II has been brought for decades; films about the war are shot in modern-day Russia up to present day. \nA few pinnacles of the Soviet cinema dedicated to World War Two include:\nThe Cranes Are Flying by Mikhail Kalatozov, Ivan's Childhood by Andrei Tarkovsky, and The Alive and the Dead by Aleksandr Stolper. Elem Klimov's Come and See is widely considered to be one of the greatest war movies ever made.\n\nPoetry: \"the Cranes\" by the renowned Dagestani poet Rasul Gamzatov, \"Wait for me\" by Konstantin Simonov, \"I am Goya\" by Andrei Voznesensky, \"It has snowed for three days\" by Mustai Karim (a Bashkir poet).\n\nIn 1970, Ōe wrote in \"Okinawa Notes\" that members of the Japanese military had coerced masses of Okinawan civilians into committing suicide during the Allied invasion of the island in 1945. In 2005, two retired Japanese military officers sued Ōe for libel; and in 2008, the Osaka District Court dismissed the case because, as the judge explained, \"The military was deeply involved in the mass suicides\". Ōe commented succinctly by saying, \"The judge accurately read my writing.\"\n\nThe war has also influenced footballing (soccer) rivalries. Most notably, the subject of World War II is used as chants by fans of the English football team. One such chant is \"2 World Wars and 1 World Cup, do dah, do dah.\"\n\nCampaigns, battles and so on have been commemorated throughout the 20th century and into the 21st century, mostly by veterans of the war and people that lived through it. In 2004 the commemoration of the D-Day landings took place which included, for the first time, German veterans of the war. Later that year, the commemoration of the campaigns in Italy and the Netherlands also took place. The 60th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camp was commemorated in January 2005, while many other campaigns were also commemorated, as well as the end of the war in Europe and the Far East.\n\nWorld War II reenactments mainly reenact the military personal of the Allied powers or Axis powers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38081709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38081709", "title": "Yasuhiro Matsuda", "text": "Yasuhiro Matsuda\n\nMatsuda received his Ph.D. in law from Graduate School of Law at Keio University in Tokyo. He spent sixteen years in the National Institute for Defense Studies (NIDS), Japan Defense Agency (later, Ministry of Defense), as an assistant and a senior research fellow. He moved to the Institute of Oriental Culture of the University of Tokyo in 2008. He is specializing in political and diplomatic history of Asia, politics and foreign relations in the PRC and Taiwan, the Cross-Strait Relations, and Japan's foreign and security policies. He was a member of the Council on Security and Defense Capability in the New Era, the advisory group of the Prime Minister in 2010. He is the winner of the seventh Yasuhiro Nakasone Award of Excellence in 2011. He has published numerous books and articles in Japanese and English. His recent publication in English is “Taiwan in the China-Japan-US Triangle,” Gerald Curtis, Ryosei Kokubun, and Wang Jisi eds., Getting the Triangle Straight: Managing China-Japan-US Relations, New York: Japan Center for International Exchange, 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
