{"id": "26641622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26641622", "title": "Ahanta people", "text": "Ahanta people\n\nThe Ahantas are an Akan people Ahanta is also believed to have come from the Fante word \"hata\" which matches with \"yinda\" in Ahanta language which means to dry or warm oneself after being wet or cold but geographically, the true definition of Ahanta is the land between Pra and Ankobra rivers. The stretch of land between these two rivers is how far and wide the once prosperous and flourished kingdom of the Ahantas covered.\n\nThe country of Ahanta, in what is now the Western Region of the Republic of Ghana, comprised a regional power in the form of a confederacy of chiefdoms which had come in early contact with the European nations settling on the Gold Coast for the purpose of trade.\n\nThe Ahantas like their fellow Akan people migrated from the antique Akan kingdom of Bono state.\n\nIn 1656 signed the Treaty of Butre and agreed to become a protectorate of the Dutch. This treaty lasted until 1872. This ended up being one of the longest treaties signed between an African state and a European state. The relationship between the Ahanta and the Dutch was at times volatile. This includes when an Nzima chief, Gyan-Kɔne seized Groot Fort Freidrichsburg. Other incidents include one in 1837 when the king of Ahanta, Baidoo Bonsoe II (Badu Bonsu II), rebelled against the Dutch government, and killed several officers, including acting governor Tonneboeijer because of his dislike of how the Dutch operated in his region. He was later killed and had his head taken used for experiments at Leiden University Medical Center in The Netherlands. The head was returned in 2009 \n\nThe Ahanta people celebrate the Kundum festival. Kundum is a harvest festival and involves dancing, drumming, and feasting. It was in its original state a religious festival that was used to expel evil spirits from the town. Today, Kundum is celebrated as a way to preserve the culture of the Ahanta people and neighboring Nzema. The festival used to be one month long, but has been condensed to eight days.\n\nAhantas practice traditional African religion, Christianity, and Islam to a lesser extent.\n\nAhanta Apemenyimheneba Kwofie III\n"}
{"id": "37661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37661", "title": "Alfred Kinsey", "text": "Alfred Kinsey\n\nAlfred Charles Kinsey (; June 23, 1894 – August 25, 1956) was an American biologist, professor of entomology and zoology, and sexologist who in 1947 founded the Institute for Sex Research at Indiana University, previously known as the Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex, Gender, and Reproduction. He is best known for writing \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Male\" (1948) and \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Female\" (1953), also known as the Kinsey Reports, as well as the Kinsey scale. Kinsey's research on human sexuality, foundational to the field of sexology, provoked controversy in the 1940s and 1950s. His work has influenced social and cultural values in the United States, as well as internationally.\n\nAlfred Kinsey was born on June 23, 1894, in Hoboken, New Jersey, the son of Sarah Ann (née Charles) and Alfred Seguine Kinsey. He was the eldest of three children. His mother received little formal education; his father was a professor at Stevens Institute of Technology.\n\nKinsey's parents were poor for most of his childhood, often unable to afford proper medical care. This may have led to a young Kinsey receiving inadequate treatment for a variety of diseases including rickets, rheumatic fever, and typhoid fever. His health records indicate that Kinsey received suboptimal exposure to sunlight (often the cause of rickets, before milk and other foods were fortified with vitamin D) and lived in unsanitary conditions for at least part of his childhood. Rickets led to a curvature of the spine, which resulted in a slight stoop that prevented Kinsey from being drafted in 1917 for World War I.\n\nKinsey's parents were devout Christians. His father was known as one of the most devout members of the local Methodist church. Most of Kinsey's social interactions were with other members of the church, often as a silent observer, while his parents discussed religion. Kinsey's father imposed strict rules on the household, including mandating Sunday as a day of prayer and little else.\n\nAt age 10, Kinsey moved with his family to South Orange, New Jersey. Also at a young age, he showed great interest in nature and camping. He worked and camped with the local YMCA throughout his early years, and enjoyed these activities to such an extent that he intended to work for the YMCA after completing his education. Kinsey's senior undergraduate thesis for psychology, a dissertation on the group dynamics of young boys, echoed this interest. He joined the Boy Scouts when a troop was formed in his community. His parents strongly supported this (and joined as well) because the Boy Scouts was an organization that was based on the principles of Christianity. Kinsey worked his way up through the Scouting ranks to earn Eagle Scout in 1913, making him one of the earliest Eagle Scouts. Despite earlier disease having weakened his heart, Kinsey followed an intense sequence of difficult hikes and camping expeditions throughout his early life.\n\nIn high school, Kinsey was a quiet but hard-working student. While attending Columbia High School, he devoted his energy to academic work and playing the piano. At one time, Kinsey had hoped to become a concert pianist, but decided to concentrate on his scientific pursuits instead. Kinsey's ability to spend immense amounts of time deeply focused on study was a trait that would serve him well in college and during his professional career. He seems not to have formed strong social relationships during high school, but earned respect for his academic ability. While there, Kinsey became interested in biology, botany and zoology. Kinsey was later to claim that his high school biology teacher, Natalie Roeth, was the most important influence on his decision to become a scientist.\n\nKinsey approached his father with plans to study botany at college. His father demanded that he study engineering at Stevens Institute of Technology instead. At Stevens, he primarily took courses related to English and engineering, but was unable to satisfy his interest in biology. Kinsey was not successful there, and decided engineering was not a field he was good at. At the end of two years at Stevens, Kinsey gathered the courage to confront his father about his interest in biology and his intent to continue studying at Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine, where he majored in biology.\n\nIn the fall of 1914, Kinsey entered Bowdoin College, where he studied entomology under Manton Copeland, and was admitted to the Zeta Psi fraternity, in whose house he lived for much of his time at college. In 1916 Kinsey was elected to the Phi Beta Kappa society and graduated magna cum laude, with degrees in biology and psychology. Alfred Seguine Kinsey did not attend his son's graduation ceremony from Bowdoin, possibly as another sign of disapproval of his son's choice of career and studies.\n\nKinsey continued his graduate studies at Harvard University's Bussey Institute, which had one of the most highly regarded biology programs in the United States. It was there that Kinsey studied applied biology under William Morton Wheeler, a scientist who made outstanding contributions to entomology. Under Wheeler, Kinsey worked almost completely autonomously, which suited both men quite well.\n\nKinsey did his doctoral thesis on gall wasps, zealously collecting samples of the species. He traveled widely and took 26 detailed measurements of hundreds of thousands of gall wasps; his methodology was itself an important contribution to entomology as a science. In 1919, Kinsey was awarded a Sc.D. degree by Harvard University. In 1920 he published several papers under the auspices of the American Museum of Natural History in New York City, introducing the gall wasp to the scientific community and describing its phylogeny. Of the more than 18 million insects in the museum's collection, some 5 million are gall wasps collected by Kinsey.\n\nKinsey wrote a widely used high-school textbook, \"An Introduction to Biology\", which was published in October 1926. The book endorsed evolution and unified, at the introductory level, the previously separate fields of zoology and botany.\nKinsey co-authored \"Edible Wild Plants of Eastern North America\", published in 1943, with Merritt Lyndon Fernald. The original draft of the book was written in 1919–1920, while Kinsey was still a doctoral student at the Bussey Institute, and Fernald was working at the Arnold Arboretum.\n\nKinsey is widely regarded as the first major figure in American sexology; his research is cited as having paved the way for a deeper exploration into sexuality among sexologists and the general public, as well as liberating female sexuality. For example, Kinsey's work disputed the notions that women generally are not sexual and that female orgasms experienced vaginally are superior to clitoral orgasms. He initially became interested in different forms of sexual practices in 1933, after discussing the topic extensively with a colleague, Robert Kroc. Kinsey had been studying the variations in mating practices among gall wasps. During this time, he developed a scale measuring sexual orientation, now known as the Kinsey scale, which ranges from 0 to 6, where 0 is exclusively heterosexual and 6 is exclusively homosexual; a rating of X for \"no socio-sexual contacts or reactions\" was later added.\n\nIn 1935, Kinsey delivered a lecture to a faculty discussion group at Indiana University, his first public discussion of the topic, wherein he attacked the \"widespread ignorance of sexual structure and physiology\" and promoted his view that \"delayed marriage\" (that is, delayed sexual experience) was psychologically harmful. Kinsey obtained research funding from the Rockefeller Foundation, which enabled him to further study human sexual behavior. He published \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Male\" in 1948, followed in 1953 by \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Female\", both of which reached the top of the bestseller lists and turned Kinsey into a celebrity. These publications later became known as the Kinsey Reports. Articles about him appeared in magazines such as \"Time\", \"Life\", \"Look\", and \"McCall's\". The Kinsey Reports, which led to a storm of controversy, are regarded by many as a precursor to the sexual revolution of the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nKinsey's research went beyond theory and interview to include observation of and participation in sexual activity, sometimes involving co-workers. Kinsey justified this sexual experimentation as being necessary to gain the confidence of his research subjects. He encouraged his staff to do likewise, and to engage in a wide range of sexual activity, to the extent that they felt comfortable; he argued that this would help his interviewers understand the participants' responses. Kinsey filmed sexual acts which included co-workers in the attic of his home as part of his research; Biographer Jonathan Gathorne-Hardy explains that this was done to ensure the films' secrecy, which would have caused a scandal had it become public knowledge. James H. Jones, author of \"Alfred C. Kinsey: A Public/Private Life\", and British psychiatrist Theodore Dalrymple, among others, have speculated that Kinsey was driven by his own sexual needs.\n\nSome of the data published in the two \"Kinsey Reports\" books is controversial in the scientific and psychiatric communities, due to Kinsey's decision to interview volunteers who may not have been representative of the general population. University of Chicago sociology professor Edward Laumann also argued that Kinsey's work was focused on the biology of sex and lacked psychological and clinical information and analysis.\n\nKinsey collected sexual material from around the world, which brought him to the attention of U.S. Customs when they seized some pornographic films in 1956; he died before this matter was resolved legally. Kinsey wrote about pre-adolescent orgasms using data in tables 30 to 34 of the male volume, which report observations of orgasms in over three-hundred children aged from two months up to fifteen years. This information was said to have come from adults' childhood memories, or from parent or teacher observation. Kinsey said he also interviewed nine men who had sexual experiences with children, and who told him about the children's responses and reactions. Little attention was paid to this part of Kinsey's research at the time, but where Kinsey had gained this information began to be questioned nearly 40 years later. It was later revealed that Kinsey used data from a single pedophile and presented it as being from various sources. Kinsey had seen the need for participant confidentiality and anonymity as necessary to gain \"honest answers on such taboo subjects\". Years later, the Kinsey Institute said that the data on children in tables 31–34 came from one man's journal (started in 1917) and that the events concerned predated the Kinsey Reports.\n\nJones wrote that Kinsey's sexual activity influenced his work, that he over-represented prisoners and prostitutes, classified some single people as \"married\", and that he included a disproportionate number of homosexual men, which may have distorted his studies. While he has been criticized for omitting African-Americans from his research, his report on the human male includes numerous references to African-American participants. Historian Vern Bullough writes that the data was later reinterpreted, excluding prisoners and data derived from an exclusively gay sample, and the results indicate that it does not appear to have skewed the data. Kinsey may have over-represented homosexuals, but Bullough considers that this may have been because homosexual behavior was stigmatized and needed to be better understood. Paul Gebhard, who was Kinsey's colleague from 1946 to 1956 and who also succeeded Kinsey as Director of the Kinsey Institute following his death, attempted to justify Kinsey's work in the 1970s by removing some of the suspect data where Kinsey allegedly showed a bias towards homosexuality. After Gebhard recalculated the findings in Kinsey's work, he found only slight differences between the original and updated figures.\n\nKinsey, an atheist, married Clara Bracken McMillen in 1921. Their marriage ceremony, like his college graduation, was avoided by Alfred Sr. The couple had four children. Their first son, Donald, born in 1922, died from the acute complications of juvenile diabetes in 1927, just before his fifth birthday. Their first daughter, Anne, was born in 1924, followed by Joan in 1925, and then by their second son Bruce in 1928.\n\nKinsey was bisexual and, as a young man, would punish himself for having homoerotic feelings. He and his wife agreed that both could have sex with other people as well as with each other. He himself had sex with other men, including his student Clyde Martin.\n\nKinsey designed his own house, which was built in the Vinegar Hill neighborhood of Bloomington, Indiana, at 1320 First Street. There he practiced his deep interest in gardening.\n\nKinsey died on August 25, 1956, at the age of 62. The cause of his death was reported to be a heart ailment and pneumonia. The \"New York Times\" ran the following editorial on August 27, 1956:\n\nKinsey was buried at Rose Hill Cemetery in Bloomington.\n\nThe popularity of \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Male\" prompted widespread media interest in 1948. \"Time\" magazine declared, \"Not since \"Gone With the Wind\" had booksellers seen anything like it.\" A character called \"Dr. Kinsey\" appeared on the September 15, 1953 television episode of \"The Jack Benny Program\" as a bow-tied man interviewing a young woman on board a cruise ship that has left Hawaii. When \"Dr. Kinsey\" identifies himself to Jack Benny, Benny steps away in embarrassment. The first pop culture references to Kinsey appeared not long after the book's publication; Martha Raye [sold] a half-million copies of 'Ooh, Dr. Kinsey!'\" Cole Porter's song \"Too Darn Hot\", from the Tony Award–winning Broadway musical \"Kiss Me, Kate\", devoted its bridge to an analysis of the Kinsey report and the \"average man's favorite sport.\" In 1949 Mae West, reminiscing on the days when the word \"sex\" was rarely uttered, said of Kinsey, \"That guy merely makes it easy for me. Now I don't have to draw 'em any blueprints...We are both in the same business...Except I saw it first.\"\n\nThe publication of \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Female\" prompted more intensive news coverage: Kinsey appeared on the cover of the August 24, 1953, issue of \"Time\". The national news magazine featured two articles on the scientist, one focusing on his research, career and new book, the other on his background, personality, and lifestyle. In the magazine's cover portrait, \"Flowers, birds, and a bee surround Kinsey; the mirror-of-Venus female symbol decorates his bow tie.\" The lead article concluded with the following observation: \"'Kinsey ... has done for sex what Columbus did for geography,' declared a pair of enthusiasts ... forgetting that Columbus did not know where he was when he got there... Kinsey's work contains much that is valuable, but it must not be mistaken for the last word.\" That same year, Kinsey appeared as a character in an episode of the Jack Benny TV program (September 15, 1953), in which he and his research were written into a sketch about Benny's 'fantasy' about Marilyn Monroe, a guest on the program.\n\nThe early 2000s saw a renewed interest in Kinsey. In 2003 Theatre of NOTE produced the Steve Morgan Haskell play titled \"Fucking Wasps\" which followed Kinsey's life from childhood until death. Matt Sesow's paintings adorned the theater along with David Bickford playing piano live. Written and directed by Steve Morgan Haskell, \"Fucking Wasps\" received many accolades, including a Playwriting of the Year nomination from Backstage West. Premiering in 2003, the musical \"Dr. Sex\" focuses on the relationship between Kinsey, his wife, and their shared lover Wally Matthews (based on Clyde Martin). The play had a score by Larry Bortniker, a book by Bortniker and Sally Deering, and won seven Jeff Awards. It was produced off-Broadway in 2005. The 2004 biographical film \"Kinsey\", written and directed by Bill Condon, stars Liam Neeson as the scientist and Laura Linney as his wife. In 2004 T. Coraghessan Boyle's novel about Kinsey, \"The Inner Circle\", was published. The following year, PBS produced the documentary \"Kinsey\" in cooperation with the Kinsey Institute, which allowed access to many of its files. \"Mr. Sex\", a BBC radio play by Steve Coombes concerning Kinsey and his work, won the 2005 Imison Award.\n\nIn 2012 Kinsey was inducted into the Legacy Walk in Chicago, an outdoor public display which celebrates LGBT history and people.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46537235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46537235", "title": "Alingpo language", "text": "Alingpo language\n\nAlingpo (\"a55 le21 pho21\"; ; also called Yiqing 彝青 or Dry Yi 干彝) is a Loloish language of eastern Yunnan, China. Li, et al. (2011) classifies Alingpo as an Eastern Yi language similar to Nasu and Gepo.\n\nAlingpo is spoken by tens of thousands of people in Shizong County and Luoping County. In Shilin County, Alingpo is spoken in only one village, Yimeidu village 矣美堵村, by about 100 people. In Shilin County, Alingpo speakers are surrounded by Sani speakers.\n"}
{"id": "667636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667636", "title": "Anesthesia awareness", "text": "Anesthesia awareness\n\nAnesthesia awareness, also referred to as accidental awareness during general anaesthesia (AAGA) or unintended intra-operative awareness, is a potential complication occurring during general anesthesia where the intended state of complete unconsciousness is not maintained throughout the whole procedure. It can occur either because of failure to deliver sufficient anesthetic medication to the patient's body or because of individual patient factors that mean the patient is resistant to what would normally be an adequate dose of anesthetic medication.\n\nAwareness occurs when patients have anesthesia that is inadequate to keep them unconscious during an operation. The incidence of this anesthesia complication is variable and seems to affect 0.2% to 0.4% of patients according to the surgical setting carried out. This variation reflects the surgical setting as well as the physiological state of the patient. Thus, the incidence is 0.2% in general surgery, about 0.4% during caesarean section, between 1 and 2% during cardiac surgery and between 10% and 40% for anesthesia of the traumatized. The majority of these do not feel pain although around one third did, in a range of experience from a sore throat due to the endotracheal tube, to traumatic pain at the incision site. The incidence is halved in the absence of neuro-muscular blockade. In this situation, the patient may feel the pain or pressure of surgery, hear conversation, experience air hunger, or have difficulty breathing. The patient may be unable to communicate any distress because they have been given a muscle relaxant; without this, they can move and the anesthesiologists are alerted and provide more anesthetic drugs to render the patient unconscious again. If anesthesia awareness does occur, about 42% feel the pain of the operation, 94% experience panic or anxiety, and 70% experience lasting symptoms which may be psychological and may be physical or neurological. The quoted incidences are controversial as many cases of \"awareness\" are open to interpretation. These usually involve feeling severe pain, clear recall of the conversations of the operating room staff or suffocation. Some patients undergo sedation for smaller procedures such as biopsies and colonoscopies and are told they will be asleep, although in fact they are getting a sedation that may allow some level of awareness as opposed to a general anesthetic.\n\nIn some cases post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may arise after intraoperative awareness, causing the patient to require counseling for an extended period. Sometimes neurological and brain injuries caused during the operation are wrongly diagnosed and described as PTSD.\n\nThere are two states of consciousness that may be present:\nThe incidence of a state with both responses in diverse degrees is also possible. The drugs that induce paralysis would also prevent responding to commands.\n\nThe most traumatic case of anesthesia awareness is full consciousness during surgery with pain and explicit recall of intraoperative events. In less severe cases, patients may have only poor recollection of conversations, events, pain, pressure, or difficulty in breathing. Some cases of difficulty in breathing are caused by intubation errors and/or problems with the ventilator and a patient might be suffocating.\n\nThe experiences of patients who have experienced anesthesia awareness vary widely depending on why they became aware, whether they were paralyzed and patient responses and sequelae vary widely as well. It is unusual for someone having experienced awareness without pain or suffocation to suffer bad sequelae. The experience may be extremely traumatic for the patient or not at all depending on whether they could breathe and what errors were made.\n\nBecause the medical staff may not know if a person is unconscious or not, it has been suggested that the staff maintain the professional conduct that would be appropriate for a conscious patient.\n\nThere are various levels of consciousness. Wakefulness and general anesthesia are two extremes of the spectrum. Conscious sedation and monitored anesthesia care (MAC) refer to an awareness somewhere in the middle of the spectrum depending on the degree to which a patient is sedated. Awareness/wakefulness does not necessarily imply pain or discomfort. The aim of conscious sedation or monitored anesthetic care is to provide a safe and comfortable anesthetic while maintaining the patient's ability to follow commands.\n\nUnder certain circumstances, a general anesthetic, whereby the patient is completely unconscious, may be unnecessary and/or undesirable. For instance, with a cesarean delivery, the goal is to provide comfort with neuraxial anesthetic yet maintain consciousness so that the mother can participate in the birth of her child. Other circumstances may include, but are not limited to, procedures that are minimally invasive or purely diagnostic (and thus not uncomfortable). Sometimes, the patient's health may not tolerate the stress of general anesthesia. The decision to provide monitored anesthesia care versus general anesthesia can be complex involving careful consideration of individual circumstances and after discussion with the patient as to their preferences.\n\nPatients who undergo conscious sedation or monitored anesthesia care are never meant to be without recall. Whether or not a patient remembers the procedure depends on the type of medications used, the dosages used, patient physiology, and other factors. Many patients undergoing monitored anesthesia do not remember the experience.\n\nThe incidence of anesthesia awareness is higher and has more serious sequelae when muscle relaxants or neuromuscular-blocking drugs are used. This is because without relaxant the patient will move and the anesthesiologist will deepen the anesthesia.\n\nOne study has indicated this phenomenon occurs in about 1 or 2 per 1000 patients or 0.13%. There is conflicting data however as another study suggested it is a rare phenomenon, with an incidence of 0.0068% after review of their data from a patient population of 211,842 patients.\n\nPost operative interview by an anesthetist is common practice to elucidate if awareness occurred in the case. If awareness is reported a case review is immediately performed to identify machine, medication, or operator error.\n\nPatients who experience full awareness with explicit recall may have suffered an enormous trauma. Some patients experience post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), leading to long-lasting after-effects such as nightmares, night terrors, flashbacks, insomnia, and in some cases even suicide. Some cases of awareness alert the patient to intra-operative errors.\n\nA study from Sweden in 2002 attempted to follow up 18 patients for approximately 2 years after having been previously diagnosed with awareness under anesthesia. Four of the nine interviewed patients were still severely disabled due to psychiatric/psychological after-effects. All of these patients had experienced anxiety during the period of awareness, but only one had stated feeling pain. Another three patients had less severe, transient mental symptoms, although they could cope with these in daily life. Two patients denied any lasting effects from their awareness episode.\n\nThe biggest risk factor is anaesthesia performed by unsupervised trainees and the use of a medication that induces muscle paralysis, such as Suxamethonium. Under general anesthesia, the patient's muscles may be paralyzed in order to facilitate tracheal intubation, surgical exposure, and because the patient cannot breathe for him or herself mechanical ventilation must be used. The paralytic agent does not cause unconsciousness or take away the patient's ability to feel pain, but it does prevent the patient from breathing so they must be ventilated correctly.\n\nA fully paralyzed patient is unable to move, speak, blink the eyes, or otherwise respond to the pain. If neuromuscular blocking drugs are used this causes skeletal muscle paralysis and interferes with the functioning of the autonomic nervous system. The patient cannot signal their distress and they may not exhibit the signs of awareness that would be expected to be detectable by clinical vigilance.\n\nMany types of surgery do not require the patient to be paralyzed. A patient who is anesthetized but not paralyzed can move in response to a painful stimulus if the analgesia is inadequate. This may serve as a warning sign that the anesthetic depth is inadequate. Movement under general anesthesia does not imply full awareness but is a sign that the anesthesia is light. Even without the use of paralytics the absence of movement does not necessarily imply amnesia.\n\nFor certain operations, such as Caesarean section, or in hypovolemic patients or patients with minimal cardiac reserve, the anesthesia provider may aim to provide \"light anesthesia\" and should discuss this with the patient to warn them. During such circumstances, consciousness and recall may occur because judgments of depth of anesthesia are not precise. The anesthesia provider must weigh the need to keep the patient safe and stable with the goal of preventing awareness. Sometimes, it is necessary to provide lighter anesthesia in order to preserve the life of the patient. \"Light\" anesthesia means less drugs by the intravenous route or via inhalational means, leading to less cardiovascular depression (hypotension), but causing \"awareness\" in the anesthetized subject.\n\nHuman errors include repeated attempts at intubation during which the short-acting anesthesic may wear off but the paralysing drug has not, oesophageal intubation, inadequate drug dose, drug given by the wrong route or wrong drug given, drugs given in the wrong sequence, inadequate monitoring, patient abandonment, disconnections and kinks in tubes from the ventilator, and failure to refill the anesthetic machine's vaporizers with volatile anesthetic. Other causes of awareness include unfamiliarity with techniques used, e.g. intravenous anesthetic regimes, or inexperience. Most cases of awareness are caused by inexperience and poor anesthetic technique, which can be any of the above, but also includes techniques that could be described as outside the boundaries of \"normal\" practice. The American Society of Anesthesiologists recently released a Practice Advisory outlining the steps that anesthesia professionals and hospitals should take to minimize these risks. Other societies have released their own versions of these guidelines, including the Australian and New Zealand College of Anaesthetists.\n\nMachine malfunction or misuse may result in an inadequate delivery of anesthetic. Many Boyle's machines used in many hospitals have the oxygen regulator serving as a slave to the pressure in the nitrous oxide regulator, to enable the nitrous oxide cut-off safety feature. If nitrous oxide delivery suffers due to a leak in its regulator or tubing, an 'inadequate' mixture can be delivered to the patient, causing awareness. Many World War II vintage Boyle 'F' models are still functional and used in UK hospitals. Their emergency oxygen flush valves have a tendency to release oxygen into the breathing system, which when added to the mixture set by the anesthesiologist, can lead to awareness. This may also be caused by an empty vaporizer (or nitrous oxide cylinder) or a malfunctioning intravenous pump or disconnection of its delivery tubing. Patient abandonment, when the anesthesiologist leaves, causes some cases of awareness and death.\n\nTo reduce the likelihood of awareness, anesthetists must be adequately trained and supervised while still in training. Equipment that monitors depth of anesthesia, such as bispectral index monitoring, should not be used in isolation.\n\nVery rare causes of awareness include drug tolerance, or a tolerance induced by the interaction of other drugs. Some patients may be more resistant to the effects of anesthetics than others; factors such as younger age, obesity, tobacco smoking, or long-term use of certain drugs (alcohol, opiates, or amphetamines) may increase the anesthetic dose needed to produce unconsciousness but this is often used as an excuse for poor technique. There may be genetic variations that cause differences in how quickly patients clear anesthetics, and there may be differences in how the sexes react to anesthetics as well. In addition, anesthetic requirement is increased in persons with naturally red hair. Marked anxiety prior to the surgery can increase the amount of anesthesia required to prevent recall.\n\nThe risk of awareness is reduced by avoidance of paralytics unless necessary; careful checking of drugs, doses and equipment; good monitoring, and careful vigilance during the case. The Isolated Forearm Technique (IFT) can be used to monitor consciousness; the technique involves applying a tourniquet to the patient's upper arm before the administration of muscle relaxants, so that the forearm can still be moved consciously. The technique is considered a reference standard by which other means of assessing consciousness can be assessed.\n\nRecent advances have led to the manufacture of monitors of awareness. Typically these monitor the EEG, which represents the electrical activity of the cerebral cortex, which is active when awake but quiescent when anesthetized (or in natural sleep). The monitors usually process the EEG signal down to a single number, where 100 corresponds to a patient who is fully alert, and zero corresponds to electrical silence. General anesthesia is usually signified by a number between 60 and 40 (this varies with the specific system used). There are several monitors now commercially available. These newer technologies include the bispectral index (BIS), EEG entropy monitoring, auditory evoked potentials, and several other systems such as the SNAP monitor and the Narcotrend monitor.\n\nNone of these systems are perfect. For example, they are unreliable at extremes of age (e.g. neonates, infants or the very elderly). Secondly, certain agents, such as nitrous oxide, may produce anesthesia without reducing the value of the depth monitor. This is because the molecular action of these agents (NMDA receptor antagonists) differs from that of more conventional agents, and they suppress cortical EEG activity less. Thirdly, they are prone to interference from other biological potentials (such as EMG), or external electrical signals (such as electrosurgery). This means that the technology that will reliably monitor depth of anesthesia for every patient and every anesthetic does not yet exist.\n\nNew research has been carried out to test what people can remember after a general anesthetic in an effort to more clearly understand anesthesia awareness and help to protect patients from experiencing it. A memory is not one simple entity; it is a system of many intricate details and networks.\n\nMemory is currently classified under two main subsections.\n\nSome researchers are now formally interviewing patients postoperatively to calculate the incidence of anesthesia awareness. It is good practice for the anesthesiologist to visit the patient after the operation and check that the patient was not aware. Most patients who were not unduly disturbed by their experiences do not necessarily report cases of awareness unless directly asked. Many who are greatly disturbed report their awareness but anesthesiologists and hospitals deny it has happened. It has been found that some patients may not recall experiencing awareness until one to two weeks after undergoing surgery. It was also found that some patients require a more detailed interview to jog their memories for intraoperative experiences but these are only untraumatic cases. Some researchers have found that while anesthesia awareness does not commonly occur in minor surgeries, it may occur more frequently in more serious surgeries, and that it is good practice to warn of the possibility of awareness in those cases where it may be more likely.\n\nA number of mainstream cognitive psychologists have studied memory as a basic cognitive process under anesthesia.\n\nJohn F. Kihlstrom of the University of California, Berkeley is a cognitive psychologist and has contributed to a book on consciousness with a chapter on anesthesia.\n\nChantal Kerssens of Emory University in Atlanta was trained as a cognitive psychologist. Her research interests have been in memory function during anesthesia, in particular its relation to depth of sedation. She can be observed in a video lecture whose topic is: Neuroimaging Anesthetic Effect on Brain Networks.\n\nJackie Andrade of the Applied Psychology Group at University of Plymouth, U.K. has a special interest in \"Priming and awareness during anaesthesia\". She has written an article, \"Unconscious memory formation during anaesthesia\".\n\nPhil Merikle of the Department of Psychology, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada has written and published on the subject of \"Memory and Anaesthesia\". He coauthored a meta-analysis \"Consciousness and Cognition\".\n\nDaniel L. Schacter former Chair, Department of Psychology, Harvard University published a book chapter, in 1990, entitled: “Anesthesia, amnesia, and the cognitive unconscious” and a journal article entitled “Implicit and Explicit Memory Following Surgical Anesthesia”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46243187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46243187", "title": "Barbara Yu Ling", "text": "Barbara Yu Ling\n\nBarbara Lee (4 November 1933/1938 – 6 April 1997), who used the stage name Barbara Yu Ling, was a Singapore-born actress of stage, screen, and television who was based in Britain from the 1950s. One of the first Singaporean Chinese actresses to gain attention in Europe, she appeared in productions of \"Madame Butterfly\" and \"The World of Suzie Wong\". Among the films she appeared in were \"Count Dracula and His Vampire Bride\" (1973), and \"Hardware\" (1990). Her last film was \"Peggy Su!\" in 1997.\n\nLee was born in Singapore. Her father was a schoolteacher, and her mother died young. A protégée of Malcolm MacDonald, Britain's Commissioner-General to Southeast Asia, she worked as a teacher before moving to England in 1955 to study at London's Central School of Speech Training and Dramatic Art. MacDonald introduced Lee to Dame Sybil Thorndike, who aided Lee with her performing career. Her sister Dorothy Lee, who joined her in England, later became the wife and collaborator of illustrator Paul Goble.\n\nLee married British theatre producer Ian Albery in 1966; the couple had two sons before the marriage ended in divorce.\nShe died of cancer at her home in London on 6April 1997.\n\nLee's first major acting role was the BBC's 1957 television production of the opera \"Madame Butterfly\" as Suzuki, although the actors' singing was dubbed by professionals.\n\nIn 1966 she had a co-starring role with Jeffrey Hunter in the Hong Kong-shot film \"Strange Portrait\". She played a ballerina and girlfriend of the main character played by Hunter. The film was never released and is now believed lost. According to director Jeffrey Stone, the film was suppressed by the Hong Kong censors because of a scene in which Lee appeared partially nude.\n\nIn 1973 she had her most prominent film role, as cult leader Chin Yang in \"Count Dracula and His Vampire Bride\". Author Paul Meehan commented that stars Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing were \"ably assisted by the quirky portrayals of Freddie Jones and Barbara Yu Ling in supporting roles.\"\n\nIn the 1980s she played the part of May in the Australian Broadcasting Corporation / British Broadcasting Corporation co-production \"Tenko\", and appeared in \"Ping Pong\" (1986), the first film to be shot in London's Chinatown.\n\nIn 1990 she was in the Richard Stanley's science-fiction film \"Hardware\". Her final film appearance was a supporting role in 1997's \"Peggy Su!\", a romantic comedy about a Chinese teenager (played by Pamela Oei) and her family set in 1960s Liverpool, England.\n\nIn 1958 Lee toured Italy in the supporting cast of \"Sayonara Butterfly\", a parody of \"Madame Butterfly\" written by Marcello Marchesi, Renzo Punzoni and Italo Terzoli. \nShe co-starred with Tsai Chin in the British production of \"The World of Suzie Wong\" that ran at London's Prince of Wales Theatre from 1959–1961.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "718365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=718365", "title": "Berlinerisch dialect", "text": "Berlinerisch dialect\n\nBerlinerisch or Berlinisch is a dialect of German. It is not a dialect linguistically, but similar to Lausitzisch-neumärkisch and spoken in Berlin as well as the surrounding metropolitan area. It originates from a Brandenburgish variant. However, several phrases in Berlinisch are typical of and unique to the city, indicating the manifold origins of immigrants, among them the Huguenots from France.\n\nThe area of Berlin was one of the first to abandon East Low German as a written language (in the 16th century) and later also as a spoken language. This was the first dialect of Standard German with definite High German roots but a Low German substratum apparently formed (\"Berlinerisch\" may therefore be considered an early form of \"Missingsch\"). Only recently has this new dialect expanded into the surroundings which until then used East Low German.\n\nSince the 20th century, Berlinerisch has been a colloquial standard in the surrounding Brandenburg region. However, in Berlin proper, especially in the former West Berlin, the dialect is now seen more as a sociolect, largely through increased immigration and trends among the educated population to speak standard German in everyday life.\n\nOccasionally, the dialect is found on advertising.\n\nBerlinerisch pronunciation is similar to that of other High German varieties. Nevertheless, it maintains unique characteristics that set it apart from other variants. Most notable are the strong contraction trends over several words and the rather irreverent adaptation of foreign words and Anglicisms that are difficult to understand among Upper German speakers. Also, the letter g is pronounced as a y-sound ([j]). This is exemplified in the word for good, in which \"gut\" becomes \"jut\".\n\nBerlinisch grammar contains some notable differences from that of standard German. For instance, the accusative case and dative case are not distinguished. Similarly, conjunctions that are distinguished in standard German are not in Berlinisch. For example, in standard German, \"wenn\" (when / if) is used for conditional, theoretical, or consistent events and \"wann\" (when) is used for an events currently occurring or questions. There is no difference between the two in Berlinisch.\n\nGenitive forms are also replaced by prepositional accusative forms, some still with an inserted pronoun. For example, \"dem sein Haus\" (the his house) rather than the standard \"sein Haus\" (his house). Plural forms often add an additional -s, regardless of the standard plural ending.\n\nWords ending in \"-ken\" are often written (colloquially) and pronounced as \"-sken\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1494213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494213", "title": "British Red Cross", "text": "British Red Cross\n\nThe British Red Cross Society is the United Kingdom body of the worldwide neutral and impartial humanitarian network the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement. The society was formed in 1870, and is a registered charity with more than 32,500 volunteers and 3,500 staff. At the heart of their work is providing help to people in crisis, both in the UK and overseas. The Red Cross is committed to helping people without discrimination, regardless of their ethnic origin, nationality, political beliefs or religion.\n\nThe mission of the British Red Cross is to mobilise the power of humanity so that individuals and communities can prepare for, deal with and recover from a crisis, summed up by the strapline 'refusing to ignore people in crisis'. In fulfilling this mission, all volunteers and staff must abide by the seven fundamental principles of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, which are:\nThe British Red Cross also has four values, which guide the way they work. These are: \n\nThe British Red Cross was formed in 1870, just seven years after the formation of the international movement in Switzerland. This followed the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War (1870–1871), and a move across Europe to form similar societies. On 4 August 1870, after a public meeting, the 'British National Society for Aid to the Sick and Wounded in War' was formed. It assisted in providing aid to both warring armies in the Franco-Prussian War and subsequent 19th-century conflicts, under the protection of the Red Cross Emblem.\n\nIn 1905, 35 years after its formation, the society was reconstituted as the British Red Cross Society, and was granted its first Royal Charter in 1908 by King Edward VII. His consort, Queen Alexandra, became its president.\n\nFollowing the start of the Great War in 1914, the British Red Cross joined forces with the Order of St. John Ambulance to form the Joint War committee and Joint War Organisation. They pooled resources and formed Voluntary Aid Detachments (or VADs) with members trained in First Aid, Nursing, Cookery, Hygiene and Sanitation. These detachments all worked under the protection of the Red Cross, working in hospitals, rest stations, work parties and supply centres.\n\nThe Joint War Organisation also provided assistance at the front line, supplying the first motorised ambulances to the battlefields, which were significantly more efficient then the horse-drawn ambulances they replaced.\n\nThe Joint War Organisation was also active in setting up centres for recording the wounded and missing. Red Cross volunteers searched towns, villages and hospitals where fighting had occurred, noting names of the missing, the injured and the dead. This formed the basis of the international Message and Tracing service, still running today.\n\nAmongst the more innovative activities of the Red Cross in the war was the training of Airedale Terrier dogs to search for wounded soldiers on battlefields.\n\nIn 1919, after the cessation of hostilities, the League of the Red Cross (now the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent societies) was formed, and the role of national societies increased, with a shift of emphasis from wartime relief to focusing on \"the improvement of health, the prevention of disease and mitigation of suffering throughout the world\". \nThe British Red Cross stayed involved with blood transfusion past the formation of the National Blood Service and it retained an ancillary role until 1987.\n\nThe British Red Cross was instrumental in starting overseas societies through the Empire and Commonwealth, most of which are now independent national societies. \n\nIn 1924, the British Red Cross started its youth movement, helping to promote its values to a younger generation.\n\nAfter the declaration of war in 1939, the British Red Cross once again joined with St. John to form the Joint War Organisation, again affording the St. John volunteers protection under the Red Cross emblem.\n\nThe organisation once again worked in hospitals, care home, nurseries, ambulance units, rest stations and more, much of which was funded by the Duke of Gloucester's Red Cross and St John appeal, which had raised over £54 million by 1946.\n\nThe Red Cross also famously arranged parcels for prisoners of war, following the provisions of the third Geneva convention in 1929, which laid out strict rules for the treatment of PoWs. The Joint War Organisation sent standard food parcels, invalid food parcels, medical supplies, educational books and recreational materials to prisoners of war worldwide. During the conflict, over 20 million standard food parcels were sent.\n\nThe only part of the British Isles occupied by Germany, the Channel Islands, were helped avoid starvation with food parcels brought by the Red Cross ship SS Vega.\n\nThe immediate priorities for the British Red Cross following the war, were the huge number of displaced civilians caused by forced migration during the war. The Red Cross provided much relief for these people, including basic supplies, and helping to reunite people through the Messaging and Tracing Service. This work led to the provisions in the 1949 Fourth Geneva Convention to protect civilians caught up in war.\n\nSince then, the British Red Cross has provided relief to people worldwide, including during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, in Vietnam in 1976, Famine in Africa in the 1980s and the 1999 Armenia, Colombia earthquake. Whilst the society no longer sends its volunteers abroad, it is a leading contributor of delegates to the international red cross pool of emergency relief workers.\n\nBetween 1948 and 1967 the British Red Cross and the St Andrew's Ambulance Association jointly operated the Scottish Ambulance Service, under contract to the National Health Service. NHS Scotland took over full responsibility for the service in 1974.\n\nIn the UK, the society has been active at many major disasters, from the coal tip slide at Aberfan in 1966, the Lockerbie air disaster in 1988 to the London bombings in 2005, providing support on all levels, from front line medical provision, to running helplines for worried relatives and long term emotional care for the victims.\n\nIn July 2008, the society celebrated the 100th anniversary of the granting of the Royal Charter with a garden party at Buckingham Palace. The party was hosted by TRH The Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall.\n\nThe British Red Cross is recognised by the UK Government as one of three Voluntary Aid Societies, the other two being St John Ambulance and St Andrew's Ambulance Association. It is the sole Red Cross Society for the United Kingdom and the British Overseas Territories. The organisation is divided into three regions, then into operational areas, and then further into 'branches', which in most cases represent an administrative county. Services provided by the British Red Cross are thus able to be adapted, depending on the circumstances and needs of the local area.\n\n\"Overseas Branches\"are:\n\nBritish Virgin Islands Red Cross\n\nCayman Islands Red Cross\n\nTurks and Caicos Islands Red Cross\n\nMontserrat Red Cross\n\nAnguilla Red Cross\n\nBermuda Red Cross\n\nFalkland Islands Red Cross\n\nGibraltar Red Cross\n\nThe British Red Cross, as with all IFRC member societies, operate first and foremost an Emergency Response service, which supports the statutory and governmental Emergency services in times of crisis, in accordance with the duty of Red Cross and Red Crescent national societies to be auxiliaries in the humanitarian services of their governments.\n\nThe British Red Cross provides a wide range of services to assist the emergency services and statutory authorities, ranging from first aid support and distribution of aid during a crisis to managing a disaster appeal scheme and providing telephone support lines in its aftermath. Notably, all services of the British Red Cross can be utilised for the emergency response service, as the situation demands. For example, the therapeutic care service can provide support at a rest centre for survivors, while Ambulances can assist the NHS in caring for the injured.\n\nThe emergency response service has been present at most types of major emergency such as the London bombings, Manchester Arena bombing, Grenfell Tower fire, rail crashes, other fires, and floods. The British Red Cross operate this service throughout its territory, available 24 hours a day but, contrary to popular belief, does not send its volunteers abroad, as overseas disasters will be dealt with by the society in the country affected.\n\nIn addition to this core service, the British Red Cross operates in other areas, both at home and abroad as part of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement to help people in crisis:\n\nThe International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement is the largest provider of first aid in the world. The British Red Cross is possibly most recognised in the UK for its work as a leading provider of first aid at public events across the UK. Thousands of volunteers give care to the injured at events of all sizes including Premiership football games, concerts and large-scale running events such as the Race for Life and the Great North Run.\n\nThe training undertaken by Event First Aid Service volunteers varies, and advanced training is available to those volunteers who wish to undertake it, which includes rising to the level of Ambulance Crew, or even undertaking training to become a fully qualified Ambulance technician. The British Red Cross employ Paramedics but do not train them in-house. These ambulance crews undergo national standard training and examination and are then qualified to offer an advanced level of care to sick and injured patients. The training is of a sufficiently high standard, that in many areas, along with the other main medical service provider, St. John Ambulance, British Red Cross ambulance crews work on behalf of the NHS Ambulance Service during particularly busy times or whenever requested, responding to 999 calls from members of the public. Areas with regular British Red Cross ambulance support include the North East Ambulance Service and the South East Coast Ambulance Service.\n\nSpecialist units exist within the first aid provision including the Cycle Response Unit, which allows trained cyclists with enhanced first aid skills to access areas inaccessible to full ambulance vehicles. This was initially sponsored by Land Rover.\n\nThe British Red Cross is one of the leading providers of first aid training in the United Kingdom. It trains people both on a community and commercial basis. The commercial training teams run nationally recognised First aid courses specifically designed to provide skills for use at work. The British Red Cross have been running these courses for 25 years and over 120,000 people are trained each year. Courses range from a basic Emergency Life Support to a three-day First Aid at Work (FAW) course recognised by the Health and Safety Executive.\n\nOn a community basis, the British Red Cross also is well known as providing many first aid courses across the country to members of the public, as well as reaching out to schools, community groups and minority groups. One of the projects of the British Red Cross is \"Everyday First Aid\", which seeks to provide training to those who would not otherwise get the opportunity to undertake such training, such as people with disabilities.\n\nFirst aid training programmes delivered by the Red Cross are renowned for giving participants both the skills and confidence to use what they have learnt, with a combination of theoretical knowledge and practical sessions.\n\nFormerly known as Fire Victim Support, this service is one of the more recent to be started by the British Red Cross. Covering most, but not yet all, of the UK, the British Red Cross provide assistance at the request of the local Fire and Rescue Service to those in the immediate aftermath of emergencies such as a house fire or road traffic accident. Typically a team of two volunteers with a customised vehicle will respond to victims and provide them with shelter, food, first aid, clothing, toiletries, washing facilities and moral support. Volunteers will assist with the process of dealing with local authority housing departments or insurance companies to enable rehousing.\n\nIn addition, these teams are frequently called out to major incidents to provide support to the firefighters and other emergency services, from simply making refreshments available, to providing a confidential listening service for those members of the emergency services traumatised by what they have just seen.\n\nThey also are key in many Local Authorities' emergency plans and may be given the role of helping at or running Survivor reception centres, setting up Friends and Family reception centres and providing first aid at them, and sometimes the providing first aid at the incident site (such as during the London bombings on 7/7) – thus freeing up more highly trained Paramedics. The Red Cross also are able to set up a number of help lines in connection with major incidents.\n\nBritish Red Cross provides the public alongside some Hospital trusts to borrow a wheelchair for free. This operates throughout United Kingdom, including Northern Ireland. They nearly have 1,000 different offices that operate this service. This service is operated by the British Red Cross Health and Social Department.\n\nThis service provides a way of learning about and understanding the world – best thought of as a form of citizenship education. It is not religious or political, but is centrally concerned with our shared humanity. At the core of humanitarian action and thinking is a desire to contribute to saving lives and reducing suffering. Humanitarian education invites exploration of those actions and thoughts. Humanitarian Education helps students examine what motivates people, including themselves, and extends to other societies, times and cultures. It explores the wider issues, sometimes surprisingly complex, that arise when people help each other.\n\nThe British Red Cross provides educational resources for teachers and trained peer education volunteers. In September 2008 the British Red Cross launched an alternate reality game called Traces of Hope to help educate people about the work the Red Cross does in conflict areas and the effect war has on civilians.\n\nCare in the Home\nThe British Red Cross, in some areas, provides short-term care and support for people recently returned from hospital, or recently having suffered an injury which otherwise would result in a hospital or care facility admission. Volunteers enter peoples' homes and help them with the every day tasks which would otherwise be impossible or pose difficulty for them, such as shopping and getting prescriptions, helping them maintain their independence and dignity, while preparing them for living independently and offering companionship.\n\nThere is small Red Cross team working in the discharge lounge in A&E at Leighton Hospital who use their own cars to drive vulnerable patients home and settle them in. The following day they make a follow up – a phone call. If all is well, great. If not, they can refer on to the BRC’s Home from Hospital scheme that provides up to six weeks social support such as help with shopping and befriending. This is one of 26 similar services. There are 86 Home from Hospital services.\n\nWhile referrals for this service can come from health and social care professionals, people can also self-refer.\nTherapeutic care\nBritish Red Cross volunteers in the Therapeutic Care Service are also active in hospitals and other care settings, such as care homes, where they enter and give patients a therapeutic massage of the head, neck, shoulders and hands through the patient's clothing, to help relax them, particularly at stressful times, and encourage a sense of wellbeing. Referrals for this service usually come from healthcare professionals, but people can self-refer, as the service can also be provided at community meeting places and homes.\n\nCrisis intervention community support service\nThe Crisis intervention community support service which operates in Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire and Cheshire provides crisis emotional support and assists people in maintaining their independent living skills during a period of crisis. It helps to prevent admission to hospital or respite care by providing short, targeted interventions. The team in Nottingham team consists of 12 healthcare assistants. During 2014 it claimed that 748 admissions were avoided, which would have cost about £1.5m. The service costs the two local Clinical Commissioning Groups just under £250,000 a year to run.\n\nTransport Service\nThe British Red Cross provides a number of transport schemes to get people with limited access to transport, either with their own car or public transport, from place to place. Services can be provided by car or minibus, with an escort if appropriate, in order to help people lead a normal life, such as journeys for medical appointments and to shops. This includes in some areas 'Dial-a-Ride' schemes, where elderly or disabled people can phone and are transported by specially adapted minibus door to door.\n\nIn addition, the British Red Cross also provides, in some areas, ambulance transport, either seated or stretcher, between places of treatment, or for admissions and discharges of patients at hospital. This is operated by the trained ambulance crews also used for emergency ambulance provision.\n\nIn 2008 as part of their 60th Anniversary celebration land rover donated 60 freelander vehicles to the British Red Cross for use in the UK and around the world.\n\nSince 1989, the British Red Cross has provided a range of services to refugees, including managing a number of refugee reception centres nationwide. The work includes providing refugee orientation services and ensuring that life essentials, such as shelter and food are provided for. In cases of destitution, the British Red Cross can provide short-term emergency help, and advice on accessing other services. A peer befriending service also exists to provide help to vulnerable refugees, such as young people and women. The British Red Cross can also assist in cases of large-scale arrivals to the United Kingdom.\n\nAs of September 2008 the British Red Cross is a member of the European Council on Refugees and Exiles (ECRE).\n\nThis is another specialised international service, operated by the majority of national Red Cross and Red Crescent societies worldwide. Started to help the refugees of war, this service now extends to any person, who has lost touch with family through war or disaster. The global Red Cross and Red Crescent network uses local volunteers to find relations, put them back in touch, or simply pass messages.\n\nThe British Red Cross also provides this service to those separated by the Second World War.\n\nThis aspect hit the headlines when a volunteer famous for doing this work for 20 years was dismissed\n\nSince the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement is worldwide, there are volunteers in the nation affected that can provide help in disaster situations. However, the British Red Cross, in common with other national societies, sends paid personnel abroad, called \"delegates\", who have specialised skills such as in logistics, to assist the agencies in the aftermath of a major international disaster. This is in addition to resources the British Red Cross can provide, in co-operation with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.\n\nThe British Red Cross also provides assistance in recovery after the immediate post-disaster situation, helping prepare communities for future emergencies and facilitating long-term development.\n\nAs the largest charity of its type, it is also part of the UK Disasters Emergency Committee, which is a group of large charities who fund raise for major disasters, such as the Boxing day tsunami\n\nThe British Red Cross works closely with other Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to improve the health and care situation of vulnerable communities abroad.\n\nThe British Red Cross has been supporting HIV work internationally since the mid-1980s, for example in China, South Africa and Ethiopia. The charity helps combat Tuberculosis in Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan and Russia, including supporting programmes involved in raising awareness and supporting those affected in their homes. Furthermore, it supports water and sanitation activities in Zambia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Uganda, Ethiopia, Rwanda and Cambodia, by providing safer drinking water and sanitation facilities and educating populations.\n\nThe British Red Cross also supports programmes assisting healthcare in conflict areas, such as Iraq and Sudan.\n\nThe British Red Cross supports the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement's mission to fight the spread of HIV and AIDS worldwide. The society works with groups of young people to fight discrimination and stigma as well as reducing complacency about catching the disease. On World AIDS Day (1 December) 2007, the society launched an on-line campaign called \"HIV: What's the story?\" to target young people in the UK and overseas. The campaign also makes extensive use of social networking sites such as Facebook and Bebo.\n\nIn 2010 the British Red Cross carried out the following activities:\n\nAs a charity, the British Red Cross relies heavily on voluntary contributions from members of the public and organisations, in order to carry out its work. In addition, it does also make money from its commercial services, including First Aid Training (for the workplace), First aid provision at events and providing auxiliary crews to the ambulance services.\n\nWhilst personal donations are important, the scale of corporate donations can make a huge difference to the society, and initiatives such as being the Tesco charity of the year in 2007 make large contributions to central funds.\n\nEvery year, many events are held, including sponsored bike rides, walks and even skydives. Red Cross Appeal Week (formerly known as Red Cross Flag Week), is held annually in May, to coincide with the birthday of Red Cross founder, Henry Dunant. This is a week where staff and volunteers are asked to donate two hours to run street and private premises collections.\n\nThe British Red Cross helps to fund, and is aided with funds raised by, the national will-making scheme Will aid, in which participating solicitors waive their usual fee to write a basic will and in exchange invite the client to donate to charity.\n\nIn order to help boost support for the cause, the Red Cross has a number of celebrity ambassadors which include Angela Rippon, Michael Buerk, James McAvoy, David Bull, Josie d'Arby, Nancy Dell'Olio, Konnie Huq, Craig Gannon and Dougray Scott.\n\nThe British Red Cross runs a museum containing a variety of materials from its beginnings in 1870 to the present day. This museum is a member of The London Museums of Health & Medicine group. The collections include posters, photographs, badges worn by Society members, medals awarded to Society members, medical equipment and fundraising materials.\n\nThe collections can only be visited via a guided tour. Tours of the museum and archive collections must be booked in advance.\n\nThe British Red Cross sent a warning letter to the developers of the indie game 'Prison Architect' in 2016. The organisation claims that, by using red cross images on \"\"'Prison Architect' ambulances and paramedics, the game has violated the Geneva Conventions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24932233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24932233", "title": "Cracovia Club", "text": "Cracovia Club\n\nCracovia Club is a Polish Australian community organisation based in Bennett Springs, Western Australia.\n\nThe club was formed in 1950 at St Brigid's Parish Hall in Northbridge by members of the Perth Polish Australian community. The club was named Polish Sport Club Cracovia after the city of Kraków in Poland. It is a name shared by Polish football team Cracovia. The club was initially based in Perth before moving to premises in Barlee Street, Highgate in 1972. The club was based in Highgate until 1990 when it moved to its current location in Bennett Springs (then Beechboro).\n\nAssociation football played an important early part in the club's history. Much of the club's efforts were put into ensuring success. However through the years the sporting side of the club has become less prominent with more of a focus on community activities.\n\nThe club now has a team playing in the Football West Social Division 1.\n\nA number of sports have been played competitively by the Cracovia Club including netball, tennis and table tennis.\n"}
{"id": "54946266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54946266", "title": "Dadoba Pandurang", "text": "Dadoba Pandurang\n\nDadoba Pandurang (9 May 1814 – 17 October 1882) (Pune, Maharashtra,British India) was a social reformer and linguist from Bombay. He was born with the surname Tarkhadkar but he never used it in later life. He wrote extensively on religion and social reform as an opponent of rituals and caste, while supporting widow-remarriage and education for women. He was a brother of Atmaram Pandurang.\n\nPandurang studied at a local school for four years before going to private high school followed by studies at the Bombay Native School and Book Society. He was a recipient of a West Scholarship and studied at what became the Elphinstone and he learnt several languages including Portuguese, Persian and Sanskrit.\n\nIn 1830 he became a school teacher and in 1840 he moved to Surat. The headmaster at this school in Surat was Henry Green, a noted agnostic and free thinker who influenced Pandurang. From 1846 he served as acting superintendent of vernacular schools and in 1852 he was selected for the post of Deputy Collector and Magistrate at Ahmednagar. He moved to Thana in 1858 and retired in 1861 due to troubles with superiors. Pandurang's major contribution was a grammar of Marathi. \"Maharastra Bhasheche Vyakaran\" published in 1836 that went into seven editions during his lifetime. He also published a supplement in 1881. Other publications included \"Yashoda Pandurangi\" (1865), \"Dharam Vivechan\" (1868), \"Paramhamsik Bramhadharma\" (1880), \"\" (1878), \"The absurdity of the Holi Festival as it is now practised by the Hindus\" (1829), \"Shishubodh\" (posthumously published in 1884) and \"Vidhavasrumarjan\" (1857). He wrote \"Dharam Vivechan\" under the pen-name of \"Ek Jagadwasi Arya\".\n\nPandurang taught Sanskrit briefly at the Sir Jamshedjee Jeejeebhoy Zarthosti Madresa in 1871. In 1848, he founded and presided over the \"Upayukta Jnanprasarak Sabha\", a students' literary and scientific society which met to discuss various topics every alternate Thursday.\n"}
{"id": "49697447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49697447", "title": "Disability in Romania", "text": "Disability in Romania\n\nDisability in Romania has long being a problem, especially for children, as there is the institutionalization of children with disabilities in Romania, as it considered something that is shameful and must be hidden away.\n\n"}
{"id": "41943223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41943223", "title": "Disconnected youth", "text": "Disconnected youth\n\nDisconnected youth is a label in United States public policy debate for NEETs, young people \"Not in Education, Employment, or Training\". Measure of America's March 2017 report says disconnected youth (defined as aged 16 to 24) number 4.9 million in the United States, about one in eight of the age cohort. Disconnected youth are sometimes referred to as Opportunity Youth.\n\nEmphasis is placed upon this group because the years between the late teens and the mid-twenties are believed to be a critical period during which young people form adult identities and move toward independence. The effects of youth disconnection—limited education, social exclusion, lack of work experience, and fewer opportunities to develop mentors and valuable work connections—can have long-term consequences that snowball across the life course, eventually influencing everything from earnings and self-sufficiency to physical and mental health and marital prospects. Much discussion has been focused on how to reach these young people and connect them with broader social institutions in order to prevent these negative consequences.\n\nAnalysis has also examined the economic impact of youth disconnection. According to the Measure of America report, the average disconnected youth costs $37,450 a year in government services.\n\nThe term has gained increased usage in recent years among policy advocates and social science researchers, particularly after the Great Recession. After a decade of relatively stable rates, the rolls of the disconnected surged by over 800,000 young people between 2007 and 2010. The latest data indicates that the rate of youth disconnection has fallen to 12.3 percent, a significant drop from the 2010 post-recession high of 14.7 percent, or 5.8 million young people.\n\nA 2012 study by the Annie E. Casey Foundation found that \"the data show that the populations struggling the most to enter the workforce\nand stay in school today are youth who are less educated, come from low-income families and belong to a racial or ethnic minority.\"\n\nThe United States Department of Education defines disconnected youth as those aged 14 to 24 years old, but relies on calculations done for the 16-24 group by Measure of America. Some researchers have narrowed the definition of youth disconnection to exclude those above an income and education threshold, and those parenting with a connected spouse.\n\nThe two surveys commonly used to calculate youth disconnection are the American Community Survey (ACS) and the Current Population Survey (CPS). Each survey has its advantages; the ACS surveys people in \"group quarters\" and has a larger sample size, which allows demographic and geographic disaggregation of data, while the CPS is an older survey, including data from 1940 on.\n\nBelow is a list of United States metropolitan areas sorted by their rates of disconnected youth, as well as youth disconnection rates by race and ethnicity in metro areas where the population of that racial or ethnic group is sufficiently large for robust estimates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1222656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222656", "title": "Economy of Oceania", "text": "Economy of Oceania\n\nThe economy of Oceania comprises more than 14 separate countries and their associated economies.\n\nOn a total scale the region has approximately 34,700,201 inhabitants who are spread among 30,000 islands in the South Pacific bordered between Asia and the Americas. This region has a diverse mix of economies from the highly developed and globally competitive financial market of Australia to the much less developed economies that belong to many of its island neighbours. New Zealand is the only other developed country in the region, although the economy of Australia is by far the largest and most dominant economy in the region and one of the largest in the world.\n\n\"to be completed\"\n\nThe smallest Pacific nations rely on trade with Australia, New Zealand and the United States for exporting goods and for accessing other products.\n\nAustralia and New Zealand's trading arrangements are known as Closer Economic Relations. Australia and New Zealand, along with other countries, are members of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the East Asia Summit (EAS), which may become trade blocs in the future particularly EAS.\n\nBelow is a list of the currencies of Oceania, with exchange rates between each currency and both the \"Euro\" and \"US Dollars\" . Australian figures are accurate as of 19 April 2012.\n\n\"Table correct as of 28 February 2008, Australian figures correct as of 19 April 2012\"\n\nThe overwhelming majority of people living in the Pacific islands work in the service industry which includes tourism, education and financial services. Oceania's largest export markets include Japan, China, the United States and South Korea. The majority of people living in Australia and to a lesser extent, New Zealand work in mining, electrical and manufacturing sectors also.\n\nThe manufacturing of clothing is a major industry in some parts of the Pacific, especially Fiji, although this is decreasing.\n\nAustralia boasts the largest amount of manufacturing in the region. Producing cars, electrical equipment, machinery and clothes.\n\nTourism has become a large source of income for many in the Pacific; tourists come from Australia, New Zealand, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. Fiji currently draws almost half a million tourists each year; more than a quarter from Australia. This contributes $1 billion or more since 1995 to Fiji's economy but the Government of Fiji islands underestimate these figures due to invisible economy inside tourism industry.\n\nAgriculture and natural resources constitutes only 5% to 10% of Oceania's total jobs, but contributes substantially to export performance. The most populous two nations, Australia and New Zealand, are also the most developed and have majority service industries. This dilutes the data from the less developed Pacific Island nations who have major agricultural economies. Most of the Pacific countries (excluding Australia and New Zealand) the primary industry is agriculture. Many nations are still quintessentially agricultural; for example, 80% of the population of Vanuatu and 70% of the population of Fiji works in agriculture. The main produce from the pacific is copra or coconut, but timber, beef, palm oil, cocoa, sugar and ginger are also commonly grown across the tropics of the Pacific. Fishing provides a major industry for many of the smaller nations in the Pacific, although many fishing areas are exploited by other larger countries, namely Japan. Natural Resources, such as lead, zinc, nickel and gold, are mined in Australia and the Solomon Islands. Oceania's largest export markets include Japan, China, the United States, India, South Korea and the European Union.\n\nOceania's most populous nations, Australia and New Zealand, are both highly developed nations and are large international aid donors. These two wealthy nations share the region with less developed nations which still rely on foreign aid for development. In the 2007/08 financial year Australia provided $3.155 billion worth of official development assistance, of which $2.731 billion will be managed by AusAID. Every week, each Australian puts in around $2.40 to pay for Australia's aid program, amounting to around 1% of the Australian Federal Government expenditure compared to the 42% spent on social security and welfare.\n\nIn the Solomon Islands 50% of government spending is paid for by international donors; namely Australia, New Zealand, the European Union, Japan and the Republic of China (Taiwan).\n\nThis region consists of many trading relations because of the small amount of land and limited resources they have. Many have trading economies and are transitioning to a developed economy and infrastructure.\n\n"}
{"id": "3980641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3980641", "title": "Feminist school of criminology", "text": "Feminist school of criminology\n\nThe feminist school of criminology is a school of criminology developed in the late 1960s and into the 1970s as a reaction to the general disregard and discrimination of women in the traditional study of crime. Feminist criminologists note that the field of criminology has historically been dominated by men, leading to the development of criminological theories that focus on the male experience. This patriarchal domination is not unique to criminological theory, as it is also reflected in the criminal justice system which is cited as a gender institution itself. Both feminist criminologists, as well as criminologists that do not ascribe to this label, have argued that much of early criminological theory is both inherently biased and androcentric. Feminist criminology challenges mainstream criminology to no longer assume theories explaining male crime are equally valid for explaining crime committed by females. This practice is referred to as the \"generalizability problem\" (i.e. \"adding\" women to male knowledge, whereby the findings from research on men are generalized to women). By utilizing a feminist methodology, feminist criminologists work to address the \"gender ratio\" problem (i.e. why women are less likely than men to commit crime).\n\nThe feminist school of criminology was closely associated with the emergence of the Second Wave Feminism and it speaks with multiple viewpoints developed from different feminist writers. There is no one feminist criminology. Similar to feminist theory as a whole, there are debates within the field as to the cause of inequality that shape multiple perspectives within this branch of criminology. The feminist school of criminology emphasizes that the social roles of women are different from the roles of men, leading to different pathways toward deviance, crime, and victimization that are overlooked by other criminological theories. Early feminist criminologists noted the need for feminist criminology based on three areas in criminology where scholarship about women (in comparison to men) was sparse. These areas include women as criminal offenders, women as victims of crime, and women working in the field of criminal justice.\n\nCriminology is the study of crime and criminal justice, and it covers a multitude of topics, but according to those of the feminist school of criminology the principal theories of criminality have been developed from male subjects, have been validated on male subjects, and focus on male victimization. This 'sexism' in criminology also influences the sentencing, punishment, and imprisonment of women who are not expected to be criminals and, if they are, they may be described as 'mad, not bad'. The attribution of madness to women flows from the entirely outdated construct that women who conform are pure, obedient daughters, wives, and mothers who benefit society and men. If they dared to go against their natural biological traits of 'passivity' and a 'weakness of compliance', they must be mentally ill: a classic androcentric view which has been held by few academics in decades. Feminism operates within the existing social structures to examine the social, political, and economic experience of women and to devise strategies for achieving greater equality (via inequality) in women's roles. This involves considering how women came to occupy subservient roles, the nature of male privilege, and the means whereby the discourses that constitute the power of patriarchy can be redirected to transform society.\n\nAs it is, gender role expectations continue to define acceptable behaviors and attitudes for females and males; deviation from these expectations may result in a variety of societal sanctions ranging from verbal abuse to violence to incarceration. These roles are a powerful form of social\ncontrol maintained through informal and formal mechanisms. Heidensohn (1992, 2000) suggests a male-biased control theory:\nFurther, those of the feminist school of criminology claim that men are the dominant group and the standard of normality and have maintained inequality through control of the definition of deviance and of the institutions of social control. Naffine argues that women have been defined as different from men and, hence, inferior; that stigma has acted to deny them their full civil rights and access to societal resources (Naffine: 1996).\n\nFeminists waves may have brought greater liberation to women, but have not changed their pattern of crime. Women are still much less likely to commit crime; this includes both blue and white collar crime. Feminist criminology is conflict based calling for the downgrading of many dominant crime theories, as they were constructed without consideration for feminist viewpoints. Feminists now call for the inclusion of women into criminological teaching, research, theory and publications.\n\nMost criminological texts (from 19th century men) and discussions almost forgot about women as they were afforded little attention as they were grouped with juvenile delinquents and the mentally insane. Smart argues this grouping with the more neglected members of the criminal world was a reflection of the females role in the community; women had lacked \"civil and legal status\", therefore it was acceptable for women to be grouped with juvenile offenders and mentally challenged offenders. Smart continues by arguing that the study of criminology was always in reference to men, in reference to a male's rationality, motivation, alienation and his victim who was always male. The disqualification of women from the criminological field was evident in criminological texts as it was assumed the man could speak for her. In criminology, just as in society, man was the center of the universe and women were merely their complement.\n\nResearch methods are \"technique(s) for ... gathering data\" and are either quantitative or qualitative. It has been argued that methodology has been gendered (Oakley 1997; 1998), with quantitative methods traditionally being associated with words such as positivism, scientific, objectivity, statistics and masculinity, while qualitative methods have generally been associated with interpretivism, non-scientific, subjectivity and femininity. These associations have led some feminist researchers to criticize or even reject the quantitative approach, arguing that it is in direct conflict with the aims of feminist research, though other have argued that this rejection is merely because those feminist writers did not like the results of the quantitative analysis. It has been argued that qualitative methods are more appropriate for feminist research by allowing subjective knowledge (read untestable facts and assertions based on 'common knowledge'), and a more equal relationship between the researcher and the researched (Westmarland: 2001). The statistics generated by crime reporting show that fewer women commit crimes, and far fewer women are victims of crime, but there has been little research to explain this difference.\n\nCritique has been the essential tool for the production of feminist theory. Victorian America viewed women in accordance with inflexible ideals of femininity, and the male-dominated criminal courts were inhibited by notions of chivalry when required to apply justice to women whom cultural norms had determined to be \"pure, passive and dependent\", and whom, leading experts claimed, seldom committed crimes. Feminist criminology challenged 'malestream' criminology. Later, Otto Pollak (1950) claimed that men were socialised to treat women in a fatherly and protective manner. Female offenders were like their mothers and wives, and the male judiciary could not imagine them behaving in a criminal way. Women were therefore protected: their criminal activity was less likely to be detected, reported, prosecuted, or sentenced harshly. Chivalry had only positive effects on women who were essentially more deceitful than men, and were the instigators rather than the perpetrators of crime. This greater capacity for deceit may have come from the 'passive' role which, according to Pollack, women have to assume during sexual intercourse. Less flatteringly, \"The Criminality of Women\" also claimed that women prefer professions like maids, nurses, teachers, and homemakers so that they can engage in undetectable crime. He also thought women were especially subject to certain mental diseases like kleptomania and nymphomania.\n\nThe most investigated \"difference\" between the sexes was biological. Cesare Lombroso (1903) identified the female physiognomy thought most likely to determine criminal propensity. This was the new science of \"criminal anthropology\" matching the general fascination with Darwinism and physical anthropology, where scientists sought pathological and atavistic causes for criminal behaviour. While he credited criminal women as being stronger than men, the consequence was that prison would hardly affect them at all. Lombroso concluded true female criminals were rare and showed few signs of degeneration because they had \"evolved less than men due to the inactive nature of their lives\". Lombroso argued it was the females' natural passivity that withheld them from breaking the law, as they lacked the \nintelligence and initiative to become criminal.\n\nSigmund Freud theorized that all women experience penis envy and seek to compensate for this inferiority complex by being exhibitionistic and narcissistic, focusing on irrational and trivial matters instead of being interested in building a just civilisation. William I. Thomas (1907) published \"Sex and Society\" in which he argued that men and women possessed essentially different personality traits. Men were more criminal because of their biologically determined active natures. Women were more passive and less criminally capable. In \"The Unadjusted Girl\" (1923) he argued that women have a greater capacity to love than men and they suffer more when they do not receive social approval and affection. The \"unadjusted girls\" are those who use their sexuality in a socially unacceptable way to get what they want from life. The female criminal forgoes the conventional rewards of domesticity by refusing to accept prevailing modes of sexuality and seeks excitement, wealth, and luxury: a pursuit that may conflict with the interests of the social group as it also exercises the freedom to pursue similar goals.\n\nStrain theories are criticised by feminists as betraying a double standard. When male offenders commit a crime under certain conditions of opportunity blockage, their commission of crime is somehow seen as a \"normal\" or functional response. When women commit crime, Strain Theory views it as some sort of \"weakness\". Naffine (1987) probably represents the best example of this critique, but there are other critiques, such as the characterisation of females as \"helpmates\" or facilitators of crime in the Strain Theories of Albert K. Cohen, and Richard Cloward and Lloyd Ohlin.\n\nThe research methodology in Social Learning Theories, such as Edwin Sutherland's Differential Association Theory, is criticised for relying on male examples, using case studies of males only, and being a male-dominated perspective that glamorises the male criminal, or at least the sociable, gregarious, active, and athletic characteristics of the male criminal. Similarly, Social Control Theories, such as Hirschi's Social Bond Theory, focuses almost exclusively on social class at the expense of gender and race.\n\nAdler (1975) proposed that the emancipation of women during the 1970s increased economic opportunities for women and allowed women to be as crime-prone as men. While \"women have demanded equal opportunity in the fields of legitimate endeavours, a similar number of determined women have forced their way into the world of major crime such as white-collar crime, murder, and robbery\" (Adler, 1975: 3). She suggested that as women were climbing up the corporate business ladder, they were making use of their 'vocational liberation' to pursue careers in white-collar crime. However, feminism has made female crime more visible through increased reporting, policing and the sentencing of female offenders and, even then, the statistical base is small in comparison to men. Carlen (1985) argues that Adler's 'new female criminal' is cast as the 'biological female' who is essentially masculine. The 'new female' criminal turns out to be the 'old maladjusted masculine female' of traditional criminology, rejecting her proper feminine role such as institutionalising rather than incarcerating women who commit 'male' offences such as robbery, i.e. Adler's 'sisters in crime' appears to work within the frameworks of traditional criminology rather than a feminist one. For an examination of gender in crimes of violence, see Alder.\n\nA debate in the recent criminology literature has focused on the handling of female offenders as they are processed through the criminal justice system. There are two competing perspectives. The chivalry or paternalism hypothesis which echoes the perception of female inmates as victims, argues that women are treated more leniently than men at various stages of the supposedly male-dominated justice process as a function of the male desire to protect the weaker (Crew: 1991; Erez, 1992). The \"evil women\" hypothesis holds that women often receive harsher treatment than men in the criminal justice system and suggests that this different treatment results from the notion that criminal women have violated not only legal boundaries but also gender role expectations (Chesney-Lind, 1984; Erez, 1992). Simon (1975) predicted that the criminal justice system would start treating men and women offenders equally. There is mixed empirical evidence for this emancipation or liberation thesis, and some would say that absolutely no empirical evidence exists for it and the notion is discredited (Chesney-Lind & Pasko 2004). Sex differentials in sentencing are subject to a variety of interpretations, and not all feminists want the criminal justice system to treat women equally. It seems that women are not committing the \"big take\" offences like stock fraud and other white-collar crimes, or bank robberies. Instead, they are admitted to the justice system charged with committing different crimes. Wundersitz (1988) and Crew (1991) consider the chivalry and paternalism factors in the process.\n\nFarrington and Morris (1983) found some empirical evidence that women did receive less severe punishments, but female offenders are far more likely to be first-time offenders, and to have committed a less serious form of the relevant offence; they stole smaller or fewer items, used less violence, and so on. Prior history of offending, and seriousness of offence, are fundamental factors in determining severity of sentence, for any offender. Once these variables are entered into the equation, it is possible to conclude that female offenders are not being treated any differently from males in equivalent circumstances. However, the evidence does suggest that married women with a caring role are more likely to be treated leniently. Unmarried women or those in unconventional relationships tended to receive more harsh treatment, confirming a sentencing model based a cultural need to reinforce gender roles within a framework of heterosexual marriage or family life. Kruttschnitt (1982) investigated the link between economic independence, informal social control, and heavier sentences for women. In a study of convictions in a Californian population in the 1970s Kruttschnitt found that sentence may differ with the extent to which a woman is economically dependent upon someone else for her day-to-day existence: the more dependent she is, the less severe her disposition. Thus, the degree to which a female offender can be shown to be under informal social control may produce a lighter formal sentence.\n\nChapman (1980) studied the connection between labour force participation and, and revealed an increase in female criminal activity during times of economic hardship. The smallest increases in arrests coincided with periods of the greatest increase in economic activity with the most common offense being that of shop lifting. These findings would seem to support a theory of a relationship between employment and crime rather than that offered by the 'women's liberation thesis'. When times are good, the offending woman appears to stabilise rather than escalate. An absence rather than availability of employment opportunities (liberation thesis) would seem a more plausible explanation for increases in female crime. Naffine (1987: 99) believes the criminal woman's motive appears more rational and straight forward than manifesting her gender-role concerns or seeking to compete with the criminal male.\n\nCriminology texts usually do not cover the broad possibilities that may account for female criminality. A criticism of criminological explanations of female crime is its insistence on presuming the nature of females and their predisposition away from crime. Smart (1976:176) argues that this determinate model of female criminality assumes an \"inherent and natural distinction exists between the temperament, ability and conditionability of men and women\". Past studies of women have developed myths about female criminality; criminologists have explained female criminals as being more \"cruel and sinister than that of the male. She is described as unnatural, masculine\" (Burke 2001:162), and lacking the qualities that would make them reserved and obedient females. This approach has been criticised as it assumes any female that varies from the traditional female role is criminal or likely criminal and it assumes that there is a large and significant difference between men and women. Smart argues that the differences that exist between males and females are of little importance in the study of crime as the factors that cause crime are \"culturally determinate rather than a reflection of the natural qualities of the sexes\" (1976:176).\n\nFeminists have levelled complaints at this angle of criminology that assumes females are controlled by their biology and are incapable of thinking for themselves; feminists point out that while criminological thinking has surpassed the gloomy days of biological determinism and the predetermined actor model of crime, criminological explanations of female crime has not. Some criminologists suggest a link between \"hormonal changes in pregnancy, menstruation and female criminal behaviour\" and crime (Burke 2001:164). Furthermore, in criminal cases women have used defences such as post-natal depression as the reason for infanticide and other crimes. The reliance upon biological reasons for a female's criminality has reinforced societal views of the biologically criminal female. Society therefore, neglects to account for other reasons such as social and economic ones for a female's criminal act.\n\nFeminists argue criminological texts neglect the victimisation of women; the victimisation of women is forgotten:\nFeminists argue these figures would not be ignored if society was not so accepting of female exploitation. Domestic violence and rape are increasingly being reported, as they have been given greater significance and a deeper understanding by society. Past generations of women have suffered in silence due to the lack of importance the police and criminology have afforded women's victimisation.\n\nAnother criticism levied at criminology by feminists is the lack of interest given to women who are the silent sufferer whilst their male partner is in prison. Criminological studies generally focus on the prisoner and his relationship with the penal system, having little interest for the females concerns. Prisoner studies detail the anguish suffered by the imprisoned men who are separated from their families but we hear nothing of the suffering of the women and their families who are the other side of that relationship\".\n\nCarlen believes there are shortcomings in feminist theories of criminality. Carlen points to three key areas of female offending that feminist theory cannot explain; \n\n"}
{"id": "35021268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35021268", "title": "Gbetsu language", "text": "Gbetsu language\n\nGbətsu is a Plateau language of Nigeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "11201638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11201638", "title": "Gentleman of the Bedchamber", "text": "Gentleman of the Bedchamber\n\nGentleman of the Bedchamber was a title in the royal household of the Kingdom of England from the 11th century, later used also in the Kingdom of Great Britain.\n\nThere were always several holders of the office, who were invariably gentlemen and almost invariably peers, often important ones, as the regular access to the monarch which the role brought was the most valuable commodity of the courtier.\n\nThe duties of the office involved waiting on the King when he ate in private, helping him to dress, guarding the bedchamber and water closet, and providing companionship.\n\nFrom 1660 the office of first gentleman of the bedchamber was invariably combined with that of Groom of the Stool.\n\nOn average the number of Gentlemen varied around 12 but fluctuated from time to time. During the reign of James II there were only 8 and none were appointed during the reign of Queen Anne.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe term 'gentleman of the bedchamber' is generally used to translate the French \"Gentilhomme de la Chambre\", who would perform the duties of the Grand Chamberlain of France during his absence from court. He would oversee the King's entertainments and physicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "9285627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9285627", "title": "Haliya", "text": "Haliya\n\nHaliya () is an agricultural bonded laborer who works on another person's land. The literal meaning of Haliya is \"one who ploughs\". Haliyas can be found throughout Nepal. But the Haliya system in the far western hilly part of Nepal is considered a bonded labor system.\n\nAs of September 2008 the system has been abolished by the Nepalese government. The effectiveness of this abolition, however, has been questioned.\n\n"}
{"id": "50170369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50170369", "title": "Hasnain Lehri", "text": "Hasnain Lehri\n\nHasnain Lehri is a Award Winner Pakistani fashion model. He has won multiple awards as a best male model, Lehri received 4 consecutive awards at the Lux Style Awards (2015, 2016, 2017, 2018). Started his career in 2014 he has established himself as one of the leading models working with well-known brands and designers. Hasnain Lehri is rank as Pakistan’s Most Handsome Faces, was chosen as one of the Top 100 Sexiest Asian Men in a poll conducted by Eastern Eye in 2017. \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1021698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1021698", "title": "Incarceration in the United States", "text": "Incarceration in the United States\n\nIncarceration in the United States is one of the main forms of punishment and rehabilitation for the commission of felony and other offenses. The United States has the largest prison population in the world, and the highest per-capita incarceration rate. In 2016 in the US, there were 655 people incarcerated per 100,000 population. This is the US incarceration rate for adults or people tried as adults.\n\nAccording to the US Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), 2,220,300 adults were incarcerated in US federal and state prisons, and county jails in 2013 about 0.91% of adults (1 in 110) in the U.S. resident population. Additionally, 4,751,400 adults in 2013 (1 in 51) were on probation or on parole. In total, 6,899,000 adults were under correctional supervision (probation, parole, jail, or prison) in 2013 – about 2.8% of adults (1 in 35) in the U.S. resident population. In 2014, the total number of persons in the adult correctional systems had fallen to 6,851,000 persons, approximately 52,200 fewer offenders than at the year end of 2013 as reported by the BJS. About 1 in 36 adults (or 2.8% of adults in the US) were under some form of correctional supervision – the lowest rate since 1996. On average, the correctional population has declined by 1.0% since 2007; while this continued to stay true in 2014 the number of incarcerated adults slightly increased in 2014. In 2016, the total number of persons in U.S. adult correctional systems was an estimated 6,613,500. From 2007 to 2016, the correctional population decreased by an average of 1.2% annually. By the end of 2016, approximately 1 in 38 persons in the United States were in correctional institutions. \n\nIn addition, there were 54,148 juveniles in juvenile detention in 2013.\n\nAlthough debtor's prisons no longer exist in the United States, residents of some U.S. states can still be incarcerated for debt . The Vera Institute of Justice reported in 2015 that jails throughout the United States have become warehouses for the poor, the mentally ill and those suffering from addiction as such individuals lack the financial means or mental capacity to post bail.\n\nAccording to a 2014 Human Rights Watch report, \"tough-on-crime\" laws adopted since the 1980s, have filled U.S. prisons with mostly nonviolent offenders. This policy failed to rehabilitate prisoners and many were worse on release than before incarceration. Rehabilitation programs for offenders can be more cost effective than prison. According to a 2015 study by the Brennan Center for Justice, falling crime rates cannot be ascribed to mass incarceration. Conversely, Steven Levitt showed in a 2004 paper that at least 58% of the violent crime drop in the 1990s was due to incarceration.\n\nAccording to a 2016 analysis of federal data by the U.S. Education Department, state and local spending on incarceration has grown three times as much as spending on public education since 1980.\n\nThroughout the 1500s, the people of England considered idleness to be the cause of many crimes, and therefore found the solution to be creating workhouses as a system to rehabilitate criminals. Though many of the first people, especially in the foundation of these \"houses of correction\" were actually vagrants without homes. Later, in the 1700s, English philanthropists began to focus on the reform of convicted criminals in prisons, which they believed needed a chance to become morally pure in order to stop or slow crime. Since at least 1740, some of these philosophers began thinking of solitary confinement as a way to create and maintain spiritually clean people in prisons. As English people immigrated to North America, so did these theories of penology. \n\nSpanish colonizers also brought ideas on confinement. Spanish soldiers in St. Augustine, Florida built the first substantial prison.\n\nSome of the first structures built in English-settled America were jails, and by the 18th century, every English North American county had a jail. These jails served a variety of functions such as a holding place for debtors, prisoners-of-war, and political prisoners, those bound in the penal transportation and slavery systems, and of those accused-of but not tried for crimes. Sentences for those convicted of crimes were rarely longer than three months, and often lasted only a day. Poor citizens were often imprisoned for longer than their richer neighbors, as bail was rarely not accepted.\n\nIn 1841, Dorothea Dix discovered that prison conditions in the US were, in her opinion, inhumane. Prisoners were chained naked, whipped with rods. Others, criminally insane, were caged, or placed in cellars, or closets. She insisted on changes throughout the rest of her life. While focusing on the insane, her comments also resulted in changes for other inmates.\n\nIndividuals who violate state laws and/or territorial laws generally are placed in state or territorial prisons, while those who violate United States federal law are generally placed in federal prisons operated by the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP), an agency of the United States Department of Justice (USDOJ). The BOP also houses adult felons convicted of violating District of Columbia laws due to the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997.\n\nAs of 2004, state prisons proportionately house more violent felons, so state prisons in general gained a more negative reputation compared to federal prisons.\n\nIn 2016, almost 90% of prisoners were in state prisons; 10% were in federal prisons.\n\nAt sentencing in federal court, judges use a point system to determine which inmate goes into which housing branch. This helps federal law employees to determine who goes to which facility and to which punishing housing unit to send them. Another method to determine housing is the admission committees. In prisons, multiple people come together to determine to which housing unit an inmate belongs. People like the case manager, psychologist, and social worker have a voice in what is appropriate for the inmate.\n\nAt the beginning of 2008, more than 1 in 100 adults in the United States were in prison or jail. Total US incarceration peaked in 2008. Total correctional population (prison, jail, probation, parole) peaked in 2007. If all prisoners are counted (including juvenile, territorial, ICE, Indian country, and military), then in 2008 the US had around 24.7% of the world's 9.8 million prisoners.\n\nIn 2008, approximately one in every 31 adults (7.3 million) in the United States was either behind bars or being monitored (probation and parole). In recent decades the U.S. has experienced a surge in its prison population, quadrupling since 1980, partially as a result of mandatory sentencing that came about during the \"War on Drugs.\"\n\nAs of the 2007 Census of Juveniles in Residential Placement (CJRP), conducted by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, 86,927 youths were held in juvenile facilities.\n\nAs of 2009, the three states with the lowest ratios of imprisoned people per 100,000 population are Maine (150 per 100,000), Minnesota (189 per 100,000), and New Hampshire (206 per 100,000). The three states with the highest ratio are Louisiana (881 per 100,000), Mississippi (702 per 100,000) and Oklahoma (657 per 100,000).\n\nA 2005 report estimated that 27% of federal prison inmates are noncitizens, convicted of crimes while in the country legally or illegally. However, federal prison inmates account for six percent of the total incarcerated population; noncitizen populations in state and local prisons are more difficult to establish.\n\nMany legislatures continually have reduced discretion of judges in both the sentencing process and the determination of when the conditions of a sentence have been satisfied. Determinate sentencing, use of mandatory minimums, and guidelines-based sentencing continue to remove the human element from sentencing, such as the prerogative of the judge to consider the mitigating or extenuating circumstances of a crime to determine the appropriate length of the incarceration. As the consequence of \"three strikes laws,\" the increase in the duration of incarceration in the last decade was most pronounced in the case of life prison sentences, which increased by 83% between 1992 and 2003 while violent crimes fell in the same period.\n\nIn 2016, there were an estimated 1.2 million violent crimes committed in the United States. Over the course of that year, U.S. law enforcement agencies made approximately 10.7 million arrests, excluding arrests for traffic violations. In that year, approximately 2.3 million people were incarcerated in jail or prison.\n\nAs of September 30, 2009 in federal prisons, 7.9% of sentenced prisoners were incarcerated for violent crimes, while at year end 2008 of sentenced prisoners in state prisons, 52.4% had been jailed for violent crimes. In 2002 (latest available data by type of offense), 21.6% of convicted inmates in jails were in prison for violent crimes. Among unconvicted inmates in jails in 2002, 34% had a violent offense as the most serious charge. 41% percent of convicted and unconvicted jail inmates in 2002 had a current or prior violent offense; 46% were nonviolent recidivists.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2008, the state prison population increased by 159,200 prisoners, and violent offenders accounted for 60% of this increase. The number of drug offenders in state prisons declined by 12,400 over this period. Furthermore, while the number of sentenced violent offenders in state prison increased from 2000 through 2008, the expected length of stays for these offenders declined slightly during this period.\n\nIn 2016, about 200,000, under 16%, of the 1.3 million people in state jails, were serving time for drug offenses. 700,000 were incarcerated for violent offenses.\n\nViolent crime was not responsible for the quadrupling of the incarcerated population in the United States from 1980 to 2003. Violent crime rates had been relatively constant or declining over those decades. The prison population was increased primarily by public policy changes causing more prison sentences and lengthening time served, for example through mandatory minimum sentencing, \"three strikes\" laws, and reductions in the availability of parole or early release. 49% of sentenced state inmates were held for violent offenses.\n\nPerhaps the single greatest force behind the growth of the prison population has been the national \"War on Drugs\". The War on Drugs initiative expanded during the presidency of Ronald Reagan. President Reagan established the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986. According to the Human Rights Watch, legislation like this led to the extreme increase in drug offense imprisonment and \"increasing racial disproportions among the arrestees\". The number of incarcerated drug offenders has increased twelvefold since 1980. In 2000, 22 percent of those in federal and state prisons were convicted on drug charges. In 2011, 55.6% of the 1,131,210 sentenced prisoners in state prisons were being held for violent crimes (this number excludes the 200,966 prisoners being held due parole violations, of which 39.6% were re-incarcerated for a subsequent violent crime). Also in 2011, 3.7% of the state prison population consisted of prisoners whose highest conviction was for drug possession (again excluding those incarcerated for parole violations of which 6.0% were re-incarcerated for a subsequent act of drug possession).\n\nA 2002 study survey, showed that among nearly 275,000 prisoners released in 1994, 67.5% were rearrested within 3 years, and 51.8% were back in prison. However, the study found no evidence that spending more time in prison raises the recidivism rate, and found that those serving the longest time, 61 months or more, had a slightly lower re-arrest rate (54.2%) than every other category of prisoners. This is most likely explained by the older average age of those released with the longest sentences, and the study shows a strong negative correlation between recidivism and age upon release.\n\nWith around 100 prisoners per 100,000, the United States had an average prison and jail population until 1980. Afterwards it drifted apart considerably. The United States has the highest prison and jail population (2,121,600 in adult facilities in 2016), and the highest incarceration rate in the world (655 per 100,000 population in 2016). According to the World Prison Population List (11th edition) there were around 10.35 million people in penal institutions worldwide in 2015. The US had 2,173,800 prisoners in adult facilities in 2015. That means the US held 21.0% of the world's prisoners in 2015, even though the US represented only around 4.4 percent of the world's population in 2015,\n\nComparing other English-speaking developed countries, whereas the incarceration rate of the US is 655 per 100,000 population of all ages, the incarceration rate of Canada is 114 per 100,000 (as of 2015), England and Wales is 146 per 100,000 (as of 2016), and Australia is 160 per 100,000 (as of 2016). Comparing other developed countries, the rate of Spain is 133 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Greece is 89 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Norway is 73 per 100,000 (as of 2016), Netherlands is 69 per 100,000 (as of 2014), and Japan is 48 per 100,000 (as of 2014).\n\nA 2008 \"New York Times\" article, said that \"it is the length of sentences that truly distinguishes American prison policy. Indeed, the mere number of sentences imposed here would not place the United States at the top of the incarceration lists. If lists were compiled based on annual admissions to prison per capita, several European countries would outpace the United States. But American prison stays are much longer, so the total incarceration rate is higher.\"\n\nThe U.S. incarceration rate peaked in 2008 when about 1 in 100 US adults was behind bars. This incarceration rate exceeded the average incarceration levels in the Soviet Union during the existence of the Gulag system, when the Soviet Union's population reached 168 million, and 1.2 to 1.5 million people were in the Gulag prison camps and colonies (i.e. about 0.8 imprisoned per 100 USSR residents, according to numbers from Anne Applebaum and Steven Rosefielde). In \"The New Yorker\" article \"The Caging of America\" (2012), Adam Gopnik writes: \"Over all, there are now more people under 'correctional supervision' in America—more than six million—than were in the Gulag Archipelago under Stalin at its height.\"\n\nAccording to the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS) in 2013 black males accounted for 37% of the total male prison population, white males 32%, and Hispanic males 22%. White females comprised 49% of the prison population in comparison to black females who accounted for 22% of the female population. The imprisonment rate for black females (113 per 100,000) was 2x the rate for white females (51 per 100,000. Out of all ethnic groups, African Americans, Puerto Rican Americans, and American Indians have some of the highest rates of incarceration. Though, of these groups, the black population is the largest, and therefore make up a large portion of those incarcerated in US prisons and jails.\n\nHispanics (of all races) were 20.6% of the total jail and prison population in 2009. Hispanics comprised 16.3% of the US population according to the 2010 US census. The Northeast has the highest incarceration rates of Hispanics in the nation. Connecticut has the highest Hispanic-to-White incarceration ratio with 6.6 Hispanic males for every white male. The National Average Hispanic-to-White incarceration ratio is 1.8. Other states with high Hispanic-to-White incarcerations include Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and New York.\n\nUndocumented immigrants, usually Mexican nationals, also make up a substantial number of Hispanics incarcerated.\n\nIn 2010, adult black non-Hispanic males were incarcerated at the rate of 4,347 inmates per 100,000 U.S. residents. Adult white males were incarcerated at the rate of 678 inmates per 100,000 U.S. residents. Adult Hispanic males were incarcerated at the rate of 1,755 inmates per 100,000 U.S. residents. (For female rates see the table below.) Asian Americans have lower incarceration rates than any other racial group, including whites.\n\nThere is general agreement in the literature that blacks are more likely to commit violent crimes than are whites in the United States. Whether this is the case for less serious crimes is less clear. Black majority cities have similar crime statistics for blacks as do cities where majority of population is white. For example, white-plurality San Diego has a slightly lower crime rate for blacks than does Atlanta, a city which has black majority in population and city government.\n\nIn 2013, by age 18, 30% of black males, 26% of Hispanic males, and 22% of white males have been arrested. By age 23, 49% of black males, 44% of Hispanic males, and 38% of white males have been arrested. According to Attorney Antonio Moore in his Huffington Post article, \"there are more African American men incarcerated in the U.S. than the total prison populations in India, Argentina, Canada, Lebanon, Japan, Germany, Finland, Israel and England combined.\" There are only 19 million African American males in the United States, but collectively these countries represent over 1.6 billion people. Moore has also shown using data from the World Prison Brief & United States Department of Justice that there are more black males incarcerated in the United States than all women imprisoned globally. To give perspective there are just about 4 billion woman in total globally, there are only 19 million black males of all ages in the United States.\n\nIn 2013, there were 102,400 adult females in local jails in the United States, and 111,300 adult females in state and federal prisons. Within the US, the rate of female incarceration increased fivefold in a two decade span ending in 2001; the increase occurred because of increased prosecutions and convictions of offenses related to recreational drugs, increases in the severities of offenses, and a lack of community sanctions and treatment for women who violate laws. In the United States, authorities began housing women in correctional facilities separate from men in the 1870s.\n\nIn 2013, there were 628,900 adult males in local jails in the United States, and 1,463,500 adult males in state and federal prisons. In a study of sentencing in the United States in 1984, David B. Mustard found that males received 12 percent longer prison terms than females after \"controlling for the offense level, criminal history, district, and offense type,\" and noted that \"females receive even shorter sentences\nrelative to men than whites relative to blacks.\" A later study by Sonja B. Starr found sentences for men to be up to 60% higher when controlling for more variables. Several explanations for this disparity have been offered, including that women have more to lose from incarceration, and that men are the targets of discrimination in sentencing.\n\nThrough the juvenile courts and the adult criminal justice system, the United States incarcerates more of its youth than any other country in the world, a reflection of the larger trends in incarceration practices in the United States. This has been a source of controversy for a number of reasons, including the overcrowding and violence in youth detention facilities, the prosecution of youths as adults and the long term consequences of incarceration on the individual's chances for success in adulthood. In 2014, the United Nations Human Rights Committee criticized the United States for about ten judicial abuses, including the mistreatment of juvenile inmates. A UN report published in 2015 criticized the US for being the only nation in the world to sentence juveniles to life imprisonment without parole.\n\nAccording to federal data from 2011, around 40% of the nation's juvenile inmates are housed in private facilities.\n\nThe incarceration of youths has been linked to the effects of family and neighborhood influences. One study found that the \"behaviors of family members and neighborhood peers appear to substantially affect the behavior and outcomes of disadvantaged youths\".\n\nThe percentage of prisoners in federal and state prisons aged 55 and older increased by 33% from 2000 to 2005 while the prison population grew by 8%. The Southern Legislative Conference found that in 16 southern states, the elderly prisoner population increased on average by 145% between 1997 and 2007. The growth in the elderly population brought along higher health care costs, most notably seen in the 10% average increase in state prison budgets from 2005 to 2006.\n\nThe SLC expects the percentage of elderly prisoners relative to the overall prison population to continue to rise. Ronald Aday, a professor of aging studies at Middle Tennessee State University and author of \"Aging Prisoners: Crisis in American Corrections\", concurs. One out of six prisoners in California is serving a life sentence. Aday predicts that by 2020 16% percent of those serving life sentences will be elderly.\n\nState governments pay all of their inmates' housing costs which significantly increase as prisoners age. Inmates are unable to apply for Medicare and Medicaid. Most Departments of Correction report spending more than 10 percent of the annual budget on elderly care.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union published a report in 2012 which asserts that the elderly prison population has climbed 1300% since the 1980s, with 125,000 inmates aged 55 or older now incarcerated.\n\nTransgender adults and LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender) youth are disproportionately more likely than the general population to come into contact with the criminal justice system. According to the National Center for Transgender Equality, 16 percent of transgender adults have been in prison and/or jail, compared to 2.7 percent of all adults. It has also been found that 13–15 percent of youth in detention identify as LGBT, whereas an estimated 4-8 percent of the general youth population identify as such.\n\nThe reasons behind these disproportionate numbers are multi-faceted and complex. Poverty, homelessness, profiling by law enforcement, and imprisonment are disproportionately experienced by transgender and gender non-conforming people. LGBT youth not only experience these same challenges, but many also live in homes unwelcoming to their identities. This often results in LGBT youth running away and/or engaging in criminal activities, such as the drug trade, sex work, and/or theft, which places them at higher risk for arrest. Because of discriminatory practices and limited access to resources, transgender adults are also more likely to engage in criminal activities to be able to pay for housing, health care, and other basic needs.\n\nLGBT people in jail and prison are particularly vulnerable to mistreatment by other inmates and staff. This mistreatment includes solitary confinement (which may be described as \"protective custody\"), physical and sexual violence, verbal abuse, and denial of medical care and other services. According to the National Inmate Survey, in 2011–12, 40 percent of transgender inmates reported sexual victimization compared to 4 percent of all inmates.\n\nIn the United States, the percentage of inmates with mental illness has been steadily increasing, with rates more than quadrupling from 1998 to 2006. Many have attributed this trend to the deinstitutionalization of mentally ill persons beginning in the 1960s, when mental hospitals across the country began closing their doors. However, other researchers indicate that \"there is no evidence for the basic criminalization premise that decreased psychiatric services explain the disproportionate risk of incarceration for individuals with mental illness\".\n\nAccording to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, over half of all prisoners in 2005 had experienced mental illness as identified by \"a recent history or symptoms of a mental health problem\"; of this population, jail inmates experienced the highest rates of symptoms of mental illness at 60 percent, followed by 49 percent of state prisoners and 40 percent of federal prisoners. Not only do people with recent histories of mental illness end up incarcerated, but many who have no history of mental illness end up developing symptoms while in prison. In 2006, the Bureau of Justice Statistics found that a quarter of state prisoners had a history of mental illness, whereas 3 in 10 state prisoners had developed symptoms of mental illness since becoming incarcerated with no recent history of mental illness.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, one of the contributing factors to the disproportionate rates of mental illness in prisons and jails is the increased use of solitary confinement, for which \"socially and psychologically meaningful contact is reduced to the absolute minimum, to a point that is insufficient for most detainees to remain mentally well functioning\". Another factor to be considered is that most inmates do not get the mental health services that they need while incarcerated. Due to limited funding, prisons are not able to provide a full range of mental health services and thus are typically limited to inconsistent administration of psychotropic medication, or no psychiatric services at all. Human Rights Watch also reports that corrections officers routinely use excessive violence against mentally ill inmates for nonthreatening behaviors related to schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Inmates are often shocked, shackled and pepper sprayed.\n\nAlthough many argue that prisons have become the facilities for the mentally ill, very few crimes point directly to symptoms of mental illness as their sole cause. Despite the disproportionate representation of mentally ill persons in prison, a study by American Psychological Association indicates that only 7.5 percent of crimes committed were found to be directly related to mental illness. However, some advocates argue that many incarcerations of mentally ill persons could have been avoided if they had been given proper treatment, which would be a much less costly alternative to incarceration.\n\nMental illness rarely stands alone when analyzing the risk factors associated with incarceration and recidivism rates. The American Psychological Association recommends a holistic approach to reducing recidivism rates among offenders by providing \"cognitive–behavioral treatment focused on criminal cognition\" or \"services that target variable risk factors for high-risk offenders\" due to the numerous intersecting risk factors experienced by mentally ill and non-mentally ill offenders alike.\n\nTo prevent the recidivism of individuals with mental illness, a variety of programs are in place that are based on criminal justice or mental health intervention models. Programs modeled after criminal justice strategies include diversion programs, mental health courts, specialty mental health probation or parole, and jail aftercare/prison re-entry. Programs modeled after mental health interventions include forensic assertive community treatment and forensic intensive case management. It has been argued that the wide diversity of these program interventions points to a lack of clarity on which specific program components are most effective in reducing recidivism rates among individuals with mental illness.\n\nThe term \"school-to-prison-pipeline\", also known as the \"schoolhouse-to-jailhouse track\", is a concept that was named in the 1980s. The school-to-prison pipeline is the idea that a school's harsh punishments—which typically push students out of the classroom—lead to the criminalization of students' misbehaviors and result in increasing a student's probability of entering the prison system. Although the school-to-prison pipeline is aggravated by a combination of ingredients, zero-tolerance policies are viewed as main contributors.\n\nZero-tolerance policies are regulations that mandate specific consequences in response to outlined student misbehavior, typically without any consideration for the unique circumstances surrounding a given incident. Zero-tolerance policies both implicitly and explicitly usher the student into the prison track. Implicitly, when a student is extracted from the classroom, the more likely that student is to drop out of school as a result of being in class less. As a dropout, that child is then ill-prepared to obtain a job and become a fruitful citizen. Explicitly, schools sometimes do not funnel their pupils to the prison systems inadvertently; rather, they send them directly. Once in juvenile court, even sympathetic judges are not likely to evaluate whether the school's punishment was warranted or fair. For these reasons, it is argued that zero-tolerance policies lead to an exponential increase in the juvenile prison populations.\n\nThe national suspension rate doubled from 3.7% to 7.4% from 1973 to 2010. The claim that Zero Tolerance Policies affect students of color at a disproportionate rate is supported in the Code of Maryland Regulations study that found black students were suspended at more than double the rate of white students. This trend can be seen throughout numerous studies of this type of material and particularly in the south. Furthermore, between 1985 and 1989, there was an increase in referrals of minority youth to juvenile court, petitioned cases, adjudicated delinquency cases, and delinquency cases placed outside the home. During this time period, the number of African American youth detained increased by 9% and the number of Hispanic youth detained increased by 4%, yet the proportion of White youth declined by 13%. Documentation of this phenomenon can be seen as early as 1975 with the book \"School Suspensions: Are they helping children?\"\n\nThe BOP receives all prisoner transfer treaty inmates sent from foreign countries, even if their crimes would have been, if committed in the United States, tried in state, DC, or territorial courts. Non-US citizens incarcerated in federal and state prisons are eligible to be transferred to their home countries if they qualify.\n\nIn some, but not all, states' department of corrections, inmates reside in different facilities that vary by security level, especially in security measures, administration of inmates, type of housing, and weapons and tactics used by corrections officers. The federal government's Bureau of Prisons uses a numbered scale from one to five to represent the security level. Level five is the most secure, while level one is the least. State prison systems operate similar systems. California, for example, classifies its facilities from Reception Center through Levels I to V (minimum to maximum security) to specialized high security units (all considered Level V) including Security Housing Unit (SHU)—California's version of supermax—and related units. As a general rule, county jails, detention centers, and reception centers, where new commitments are first held while either awaiting trial or before being transferred to \"mainline\" institutions to serve out their sentences, operate at a relatively high level of security, usually close security or higher.\n\nSupermax prison facilities provide the highest level of prison security. These units hold those considered the most dangerous inmates, as well as inmates that have been deemed too high-profile or too great a national security risk for a normal prison. These include inmates who have committed assaults, murders, or other serious violations in less secure facilities, and inmates known to be or accused of being prison gang members. Most states have either a supermax section of a prison facility or an entire prison facility designated as a supermax. The United States Federal Bureau of Prisons operates a federal supermax, A.D.X. Florence, located in Florence, Colorado, also known as the \"Alcatraz of the Rockies\" and widely considered to be perhaps the most secure prison in the United States. A.D.X. Florence has a standard supermax section where assaultive, violent, and gang-related inmates are kept under normal supermax conditions of 23-hour confinement and abridged amenities. A.D.X. Florence is considered to be of a security level above that of all other prisons in the United States, at least in the \"ideological\" ultramax part of it, which features permanent, 24-hour solitary confinement with rare human contacts or opportunity to earn better conditions through good behavior.\n\nIn a maximum security prison or area (called high security in the federal system), all prisoners have individual cells with sliding doors controlled from a secure remote control station. Prisoners are allowed out of their cells one out of twenty four hours (one hour and 30 minutes for prisoners in California). When out of their cells, prisoners remain in the cell block or an exterior cage. Movement out of the cell block or \"pod\" is tightly restricted using restraints and escorts by correctional officers.\n\nUnder close security, prisoners usually have one- or two-person cells operated from a remote control station. Each cell has its own toilet and sink. Inmates may leave their cells for work assignments or correctional programs and otherwise may be allowed in a common area in the cellblock or an exercise yard. The fences are generally double fences with watchtowers housing armed guards, plus often a third, lethal-current electric fence in the middle.\n\nPrisoners that fall into the medium security group may sleep in cells, but share them two and two, and use bunk beds with lockers to store their possessions. The cell may have showers, toilets and sinks, but it's not a strictly enforced rule. Cells are locked at night with one or more correctional officers supervising. There is less supervision over the internal movements of prisoners. The perimeter is generally double fenced and regularly patrolled.\n\nPrisoners in minimum security facilities are considered to pose little physical risk to the public and are mainly non-violent \"white collar criminals\". Minimum security prisoners live in less-secure dormitories, which are regularly patrolled by correctional officers. As in medium security facilities, they have communal showers, toilets, and sinks. A minimum-security facility generally has a single fence that is watched, but not patrolled, by armed guards. At facilities in very remote and rural areas, there may be no fence at all. Prisoners may often work on community projects, such as roadside litter cleanup with the state department of transportation or wilderness conservation. Many minimum security facilities are small camps located in or near military bases, larger prisons (outside the security perimeter) or other government institutions to provide a convenient supply of convict labor to the institution. Many states allow persons in minimum-security facilities access to the Internet.\n\nResearch indicates that inmates who maintain contact with family and friends in the outside world are less likely to be convicted of further crimes and usually have an easier reintegration period back into society. Many institutions encourage friends and families to send letters, especially when they are unable to visit regularly. However, guidelines exist as to what constitutes acceptable mail, and these policies are strictly enforced.\n\nMail sent to inmates in violation of prison policies can result in sanctions such as loss of imprisonment time reduced for good behavior. Most Department of Corrections websites provide detailed information regarding mail policies. These rules can even vary within a single prison depending on which part of the prison an inmate is housed. For example, death row and maximum security inmates are usually under stricter mail guidelines for security reasons.\n\nThere have been several notable challenges to prison corresponding services. The Missouri Department of Corrections (DOC) stated that effective June 1, 2007, inmates would be prohibited from using pen pal websites, citing concerns that inmates were using them to solicit money and defraud the public. Service providers such as WriteAPrisoner.com, together with the ACLU, plan to challenge the ban in Federal Court. Similar bans on an inmate's rights or a website's right to post such information has been ruled unconstitutional in other courts, citing First Amendment freedoms. Some faith-based initiatives promote the positive effects of correspondence on inmates, and some have made efforts to help ex-offenders reintegrate into society through job placement assistance. Inmates' ability to mail letters to other inmates has been limited by the courts. Inmate correspondence with members of society is typically encouraged because of the positive impact it can have on inmates, albeit under the guidelines of each institution and availability of letter writers.\n\nThe non-governmental organization Human Rights Watch claims that prisoners and detainees face \"abusive, degrading and dangerous\" conditions within local, state and federal facilities, including those operated by for-profit contractors. The organization also raised concerns with prisoner rape and medical care for inmates. In a survey of 1,788 male inmates in Midwestern prisons by \"Prison Journal\", about 21% responded they had been coerced or pressured into sexual activity during their incarceration, and 7% that they had been raped in their current facility.\n\nIn August 2003, a \"Harper's\" article by Wil S. Hylton estimated that \"somewhere between 20 and 40% of American prisoners are, at this very moment, infected with hepatitis C\". Prisons may outsource medical care to private companies such as Correctional Medical Services (now Corizon) that, according to Hylton's research, try to minimize the amount of care given to prisoners in order to maximize profits. After the privatization of healthcare in Arizona's prisons, medical spending fell by 30 million dollars and staffing was greatly reduced. Some 50 prisoners died in custody in the first 8 months of 2013, compared to 37 for the preceding two years combined.\n\nThe poor quality of food provided to inmates has become an issue, as over the last decade corrections officials looking to cut costs have been outsourcing food services to private, for-profit corporations such as Aramark, A'Viands Food & Services Management, and ABL Management. A prison riot in Kentucky has been blamed on the low quality of food Aramark provided to inmates. A 2017 study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that because of lapses in food safety, prison inmates are 6.4 times more likely to contract a food-related illness than the general population.\n\nAlso identified as an issue within the prison system is gang violence, because many gang members retain their gang identity and affiliations when imprisoned. Segregation of identified gang members from the general population of inmates, with different gangs being housed in separate units often results in the imprisonment of these gang members with their friends and criminal cohorts. Some feel this has the effect of turning prisons into \"institutions of higher criminal learning.\"\n\nMany prisons in the United States are overcrowded. For example, California's 33 prisons have a total capacity of 100,000, but they hold 170,000 inmates. Many prisons in California and around the country are forced to turn old gymnasiums and classrooms into huge bunkhouses for inmates. They do this by placing hundreds of bunk beds next to one another, in these gyms, without any type of barriers to keep inmates separated. In California, the inadequate security engendered by this situation, coupled with insufficient staffing levels, have led to increased violence and a prison health system that causes one death a week. This situation has led the courts to order California to release 27% of the current prison population, citing the Eighth Amendment's prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment. The three-judge court considering requests by the \"Plata v. Schwarzenegger\" and \"Coleman v. Schwarzenegger\" courts found California's prisons have become criminogenic as a result of prison overcrowding.\n\nIn 2005, the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Cutter v. Wilkinson\" established that prisons that received federal funds could not deny prisoners accommodations necessary for religious practices.\n\nAccording to a Supreme Court ruling issued on May 23, 2011, California — which has the highest overcrowding rate of any prison system in the country — must alleviate overcrowding in the state's prisons, reducing the prisoner population by 30,000 over the next two years.\nSolitary confinement is widely used in US prisons, yet it is underreported by most states, while some don't report it at all. Isolation of prisoners has been condemned by the UN in 2011 as a form of torture. At over 80,000 at any given time, the US has more prisoners confined in isolation than any other country in the world. In Louisiana, with 843 prisoners per 100,000 citizens, there have been prisoners, such as the Angola Three, held for as long as forty years in isolation.\n\nIn 1999, the Supreme Court of Norway refused to extradite American hashish-smuggler Henry Hendricksen, as they declared that US prisons do not meet their minimum humanitarian standards.\n\nIn 2011, some 885 people died while being held in local jails (not in prisons after being convicted of a crime and sentenced) throughout the United States. According to federal statistics, roughly 4,400 inmates die in US prisons and jails annually, excluding executions.\n\nAs of September 2013, condoms for prisoners are only available in the U.S. State of Vermont (on September 17, 2013, the California Senate approved a bill for condom distribution inside the state's prisons, but the bill was not yet law at the time of approval) and in county jails in San Francisco.\n\nIn September 2016, a group of corrections officers at Holman Correctional Facility have gone on strike over safety concerns and overcrowding. Prisoners refer to the facility as a \"slaughterhouse\" as stabbings are a routine occurrence.\n\nPrior to the 1980s, private prisons did not exist in the U.S. During the 1980s, as a result of the War on Drugs by the Reagan Administration, the number of people incarcerated rose. This created a demand for more prison space. The result was the development of privatization and the for-profit prison industry.\n\nA 1998 study was performed using three comparable Louisiana medium security prisons, two of which were privately run by different corporations and one of which was publicly run. The data from this study suggested that the privately run prisons operated more cost-effectively without sacrificing the safety of inmates and staff. The study concluded that both privately run prisons had a lower cost per inmate, a lower rate of critical incidents, a safer environment for employees and inmates, and a higher proportional rate of inmates who completed basic education, literacy, and vocational training courses. However, the publicly run prison outperformed the privately run prisons in areas such as experiencing fewer escape attempts, controlling substance abuse through testing, offering a wider range of educational and vocational courses, and providing a broader range of treatment, recreation, social services, and rehabilitative services.\n\nAccording to Marie Gottschalk, a professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania, studies that claim private prisons are cheaper to run than public prisons fail to \"take into account the fundamental differences between private and public facilities,\" and that the prison industry \"engages in a lot of cherry-picking and cost-shifting to maintain the illusion that the private sector does it better for less.\" The American Civil Liberties Union reported in 2013 that numerous studies indicate private jails are actually filthier, more violent, less accountable, and possibly more costly than their public counterparts. The ACLU stated that the for-profit prison industry is \"a major contributor to bloated state budgets and mass incarceration – not a part of any viable solution to these urgent problems.\" The primary reason Louisiana is the prison capital of the world is because of the for-profit prison industry. According to \"The Times-Picayune\", \"a majority of Louisiana inmates are housed in for-profit facilities, which must be supplied with a constant influx of human beings or a $182 million industry will go bankrupt.\"\n\nIn Mississippi, a 2013 \"Bloomberg report\" stated that assault rates in private facilities were three times higher on average than in their public counterparts. In 2012, the for-profit Walnut Grove Youth Correctional Facility was the most violent prison in the state with 27 assaults per 100 offenders. A federal lawsuit filed by the ACLU and the Southern Poverty Law Center on behalf of prisoners at the privately run East Mississippi Correctional Facility in 2013 claims the conditions there are \"hyper-violent,\" \"barbaric\" and \"chaotic,\" with gangs routinely beating and exploiting mentally ill inmates who are denied medical care by prison staff. A May 2012 riot in the Corrections Corporation of America-run Adams County Correctional Facility, also in Mississippi, left one corrections officer dead and dozens injured. Similar riots have occurred in privatized facilities in Idaho, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Florida, California and Texas.\n\nSociologist John L. Campbell of Dartmouth College claims that private prisons in the U.S. have become \"a lucrative business.\" Between 1990 and 2000, the number of private facilities grew from five to 100, operated by nearly 20 private firms. Over the same time period the stock price of the industry leader, Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), which rebranded as CoreCivic in 2016 amid increased scrutiny of the private prison industry, climbed from $8 a share to $30. According to journalist Matt Taibbi, major investors in the prison industry include Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Fidelity Investments, General Electric and The Vanguard Group. The aforementioned \"Bloomberg report\" also notes that in the past decade the number of inmates in for-profit prisons throughout the U.S. rose 44 percent.\n\nControversy has surrounded the privatization of prisons with the exposure of the genesis of the landmark Arizona SB 1070 law. This law was written by Arizona State Congressman Russell Pearce and the CCA at a meeting of the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) in the Grand Hyatt in Washington, D.C. Both CCA and GEO Group, the two largest operators of private facilities, have been contributors to ALEC, which lobbies for policies that would increase incarceration, such as three-strike laws and \"truth-in-sentencing\" legislation. In face, in the early 1990s, when CCA was co-chair of ALEC, it co-sponsored (with the National Rifle Association) the so-called \"truth-in-sentencing\" and \"three-strikes-you're-out\" laws. Truth-in-sentencing called for all violent offenders to serve 85 percent of their sentences before being eligible for release; three strikes called for mandatory life imprisonment for a third felony conviction. Some prison officers unions in publicly run facilities such as California Correctional Peace Officers Association have, in the past, also supported measures such as three-strike laws. Such laws increased the prison population.\n\nIn addition to CCA and GEO Group, companies operating in the private prison business include Management and Training Corporation, and Community Education Centers. The GEO Group was formerly known as the Wackenhut Corrections division. It includes the former Correctional Services Corporation and Cornell Companies, which were purchased by GEO in 2005 and 2010. Such companies often sign contracts with states obliging them to fill prison beds or reimburse them for those that go unused.\n\nPrivate companies which provide services to prisons combine in the American Correctional Association, a 501(c)3 which advocates legislation favorable to the industry. Such private companies comprise what has been termed the prison–industrial complex. An example of this phenomenon would be the Kids for cash scandal, in which two judges in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, Mark Ciavarella and Michael Conahan, were receiving judicial kickbacks for sending youths, convicted of minor crimes, to a privatized, for-profit juvenile facility run by the Mid Atlantic Youth Service Corporation.\n\nThe industry is aware of what reduced crime rates could mean to their bottom line. This from the CCA's SEC report in 2010:\n\nMarie Gottschalk claims that while private prison companies and other economic interests were not the primary drivers of mass incarceration originally, they do much to sustain it today. The private prison industry has successfully lobbied for changes that increase the profit of their employers. They have opposed measures that would bring reduced sentencing or shorter prison terms. The private prison industry has been accused of being at least partly responsible for America's high rates of incarceration.\n\nAccording to The Corrections Yearbook, 2000, the average annual starting salary for public corrections officers was $23,002, compared to\n$17,628 for private prison guards. The poor pay is a likely factor in the high turnover rate in private prisons, at 52.2 percent compared to 16 percent in public facilities.\n\nIn September 2015, Senator Bernie Sanders introduced the \"Justice Is Not for Sale\" Act, which would prohibit the United States government at federal, state and local levels from contracting with private firms to provide and/or operate detention facilities within two years.\n\nAn August 2016 report by the U.S. Department of Justice asserts that privately operated federal facilities are less safe, less secure and more punitive than other federal prisons. Shortly after this report was published, the DoJ announced it will stop using private prisons. On February 23, the DOJ under Attorney General Jeff Sessions overturned the ban on using private prisons. According to Sessions, \"the (Obama administration) memorandum changed long-standing policy and practice, and impaired the bureau's ability to meet the future needs of the federal correctional system. Therefore, I direct the bureau to return to its previous approach.\" The private prison industry has been booming under the Trump Administration.\n\nAbout 18% of eligible prisoners held in federal prisons are employed by UNICOR and are paid less than $1.25 an hour. Prisons have gradually become a source of low-wage labor for corporations seeking to outsource work to inmates. Corporations that utilize prison labor include Walmart, Eddie Bauer, Victoria's Secret, Microsoft, Starbucks, McDonald's, Nintendo, Chevron Corporation, Bank of America, Koch Industries, Boeing and Costco Wholesale.\n\nIt is estimated that 1 in 9 state government employees works in corrections. As the overall U.S. prison population declined in 2010, states are closing prisons. For instance, Virginia has removed 11 prisons since 2009. Like other small towns, Boydton in Virginia has to contend with unemployment woes resulting from the closure of the Mecklenburg Correctional Center.\n\nIn September 2016, large, coordinated prison strikes took place in 11 states, with inmates claiming they are subjected to poor sanitary conditions and jobs that amount to forced labor and modern day slavery. Organizers, which include the Industrial Workers of the World labor union, assert it is the largest prison strike in U.S. history. \n\nStarting August 21, 2018, another prison strike, sponsored by Jailhouse Lawyers Speak and the Incarcerated Workers Organizing Committee, took place in 17 states from coast to coast to protest what inmates regard as unfair treatment by the criminal justice system. In particular, inmates objected to being excluded from the 13th amendment which forces them to work for pennies a day, a condition they assert is tantamount to \"modern-day slavery.\" The strike was the result of a call to action after a deadly riot occurred at Lee Correctional Institution in April of that year, which was sparked by neglect and inhumane living conditions.\n\nJudicial, police, and corrections costs totaled $212 billion in 2011 according to the U.S. Census Bureau. In 2007, around $74 billion was spent on corrections according to the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics.\n\nIn 2014, among facilities operated by the Federal Bureau of Prisons, the average cost of incarceration for federal inmates in fiscal year 2014 was $30,619.85. The average annual cost to confine an inmate in a residential re-entry center was $28,999.25.\n\nState prisons averaged $31,286 per inmate in 2010 according to a Vera Institute of Justice study. It ranged from $14,603 in Kentucky to $60,076 in New York.\n\nIn California in 2008, it cost the state an average of $47,102 a year to incarcerate an inmate in a state prison. From 2001 to 2009, the average annual cost increased by about $19,500.\n\nHousing the approximately 500,000 people in jail in the US awaiting trial who cannot afford bail costs $9 billion a year. Most jail inmates are petty, nonviolent offenders. Twenty years ago most nonviolent defendants were released on their own recognizance (trusted to show up at trial). Now most are given bail, and most pay a bail bondsman to afford it. 62% of local jail inmates are awaiting trial.\n\nTo ease jail overcrowding over 10 counties every year consider building new jails. As an example Lubbock County, Texas has decided to build a $110 million megajail to ease jail overcrowding. Jail costs an average of $60 a day nationally. In Broward County, Florida supervised pretrial release costs about $7 a day per person while jail costs $115 a day. The jail system costs a quarter of every county tax dollar in Broward County, and is the single largest expense to the county taxpayer.\n\nThe National Association of State Budget Officers reports: \"In fiscal 2009, corrections spending represented 3.4 percent of total state spending and 7.2 percent of general fund spending.\" They also report: \"Some states exclude certain items when reporting corrections expenditures. Twenty-one states wholly or partially excluded juvenile delinquency counseling from their corrections figures and fifteen states wholly or partially excluded spending on juvenile institutions. Seventeen states wholly or partially excluded spending on drug abuse rehabilitation centers and forty-one states wholly or partially excluded spending on institutions for the criminally insane. Twenty-two states wholly or partially excluded aid to local governments for jails. For details, see Table 36.\"\n\n, the cost of medical care for inmates was growing by 10 percent annually.\n\nAccording to a 2016 study by researchers at Washington University in St. Louis, the true cost of incarceration exceeds $1 trillion, with half of that falling on the families, children and communities of those incarcerated.\n\nIncreasing incarceration has a negative effect on crime, but this effect becomes smaller as the incarceration rate increases. Higher rates of prison admissions increase crime rates, whereas moderate rates of prison admissions decrease crime. The rate of prisoner releases in a given year in a community is also positively related to that community's crime rate the following year.\n\nA 2010 study of panel data from 1978 to 2003 indicated that the crime-reducing effects of increasing incarceration are totally offset by the crime-increasing effects of prisoner re-entry.\n\nWithin three years of being released, 67% of ex-prisoners re-offend and 52% are re-incarcerated, according to a study published in 1994. The rate of recidivism is so high in the United States that most inmates who enter the system are likely to reenter within a year of their release. Former inmate Wenona Thompson argues \"I realized that I became part of a cycle, a system, that looked forward to seeing me there. And I was aware that...I would be one of those people who fill up their prisons\".\n\nIn 1995, the government allocated $5.1 billion for new prison space. Every $100 million spent in construction costs $53 million per year in finance and operational costs over the next three decades. Taxpayers spend $60 billion a year for prisons. In 2005, it cost an average of $23,876 a year to house a prisoner. It takes about $30,000 per year per person to provide drug rehabilitation treatment to inmates. By contrast, the cost of drug rehabilitation treatment outside of a prison costs about $8,000 per year per person.\n\nThe effects of such high incarceration rates are also shown in other ways. For example, a person who has been recently released from prison is ineligible for welfare in most states. They are not eligible for subsidized housing, and for Section 8 they have to wait two years before they can apply. In addition to finding housing, they also have to find employment, but this can be difficult as employers often check for a potential employees Criminal record. Essentially, a person who has been recently released from prison comes into a society that is not prepared structurally or emotionally to welcome them back.\n\nIn \"The New Jim Crow\" in 2011, legal scholar and advocate Michelle Alexander contended that the U.S. incarceration system worked to bar black men from voting. She wrote \"there are more African Americans under correctional control -- in prison or jail, on probation or parole -- than were enslaved in 1850, a decade before the Civil War began\". Alexander's work has drawn increased attention through 2011 and into 2013.\n\nYale Law Professor, and opponent of mass incarceration James Forman Jr. has countered that 1) African Americans, as represented by such cities as the District of Columbia, have generally supported tough on crime policies. 2) There appears to be a connection between drugs and violent crimes, the discussion of which, he says, New Jim Crow theorists have avoided. 3) New theorists have overlooked class as a factor in incarceration. Blacks with advanced degrees have fewer convictions. Blacks without advanced education have more.\n\nIncarceration of an individual does not have a singular effect: it affects those in the individual's tight-knit circle as well. For every mother that is incarcerated in the United States there are about another ten people (children, grandparents, community, etc.) that are directly affected.  Moreover, more than 2.7 million children in the United States have an incarcerated parent. That translates to one out of every 27 children in the United States having an incarcerated parent.  This ripple effect on the individual's family amplifies the debilitating effect that entails arresting individuals. Given the general vulnerability and naivete of children, it is important to understand how such a traumatic event adversely affects children. The effects of a parent’s incarceration on their children have been found as early as three years old. Local and state governments in the United States have recognized these harmful effects and have attempted to address them through public policy solutions.\n\nThe effects of an early traumatic experience of a child can be categorized into health effects and behavioral externalizations. Many studies have searched for a correlation between witnessing a parent's arrest and a wide variety of physiological issues. For example, Lee et al. showed significant correlation between high cholesterol, Migraine, and HIV/AIDS diagnosis to children with a parental incarceration.  Even while adjusting for various socioeconomic and racial factors, children with an incarcerated parent have a significantly higher chance of developing a wide variety of physical problems such as Obesity, asthma, and developmental delays.  The current literature acknowledges that there are a variety of poor health outcomes as a direct result of being separated from a parent by law enforcement.  It is hypothesized that the chronic stress that results directly from the uncertainty of the parent's legal status is the primary influence for the extensive list of acute and chronic conditions that could develop later in life.  In addition to the chronic stress, the immediate instability in a child's life deprives them of certain essentials e.g. money for food, parental love that are compulsory for leading a healthy life. Though most of the adverse effects that result from parental incarceration are regardless of whether the mother or father was arrested, some differences have been discovered. For example, males whose father have been incarcerated display more behavioral issues than any other combination of parent/child. \n\nThere has also been a substantial effort to understand how this traumatic experience manifests in the child's mental health and to identify externalizations that may be helpful for a diagnosis. The most prominent mental health outcomes in these children are Anxiety disorder, Depression (mood), and Posttraumatic stress disorder(PTSD).  These problems worsen in a typical positive feedbackloop without the presence of a parental figure. Given the chronic nature of these diseases, they can be detected and observed at distinct points in a child's development, allowing for ample research. Murray et al. have been able to isolate the cause of the expression of Anti-social behaviours specific to the parental incarceration.  In a specific case study in Boston by Sack, within two months of the father being arrested, the adolescent boy in the family developed severe aggressive and antisocial behaviors.  This observation is not unique; Sack and other researchers have noticed an immediate and strong reaction to sudden departures from family structure norms. These behavioral externalizations are most evident at school when the child interacts with peers and adults. This behavior leads to punishment and less focus on education, which has obvious consequences for future educational and career prospects. \n\nIn addition to externalizing undesirable behaviors, children of incarcerated parents are more likely to be incarcerated compared to those without incarcerated parents. More formally, transmission of severe emotional strain on a parent negatively impacts the children by disrupting the home environment. Societal stigma against individuals, specifically parents, who are incarcerated is passed down to their children. The children find this stigma to be overwhelming and it negatively impacts their short- and long-term prospects.\n\nThere are four main phases that can be distinguished in the process of arresting a parent: arrest, sentencing, incarceration, and re-entry. Re-entry is not relevant if a parent is not arrested for other crimes. During each of these phases, solutions can be implemented that mitigate the harm placed on the children during the process. While their parents are away, children rely on other caretakers (family or friends) to satisfy their basic need. Solutions for the children of incarcerated parents have identified caretakers as a focal point for successful intervention.\n\nOne in five children witness their parent arrested by authorities, and a study interviewing 30 children reported that the children experienced Flashbulb Memories and Nightmares associated with the day their parent was arrested. These single, adverse moments have long-reaching effects and policymakers around the country have attempted to ameliorate the situation. For example, the city of San Francisco in 2005 implemented training policies for its police officers with the goal of making them more cognizant of the familial situation before entering the home. The guidelines go a step further and stipulate that if no information is available before the arrest, that officers ask the suspect about the possibility of any children in the house. San Francisco is not alone: New Mexico passed a law in 2009 advocating for child safety during parental arrest and California provides funding to agencies to train personnel how to appropriately conduct an arrest in the presence of family members. Extending past the state level, the Department of Justice has provided guidelines for police officers around the country to better accommodate for children in difficult family situations. \n\nDuring the sentencing phase, the judge is the primary authority in determine if the appropriate punishment, if any. Consideration of the sentencing effects on the defendant’s children could help with the preservation of the parent-child relationship. In a law passed in 2014, Oklahoma requires judges to inquire if convicted individuals are single custodial parents, and if so, authorize the mobility of important resources so the child’s transition to different circumstances is monitored. The distance that the jail or prison is from the arrested individual’s home is a contributing factor to the parent-child relationship. Allowing a parent to serve their sentence closer to their residence will allow for easier visitation and a healthier relationship. Recognizing this, the New York Senate passed a bill in 2015 that would ensure convicted individuals be jailed in the nearest facility.\n\nWhile serving a sentence, measures have been put in place to allow parents to exercise their duty as role models and caretakers. The state of New York (state) allows newborns to be with their mothers for up to one year. Studies have shown that parental, specifically maternal, presence during a newborn’s early development are crucial to both physical and cognitive development. Ohio law requires nursery support for pregnant inmates in its facilities. California also has a stake in the support of incarcerated parents, too, through its requirement that women in jail with children be transferred to a community facility that can provide pediatric care. These regulations are supported by the research on early child development that argue it is imperative that infants and young children are with a parental figure, preferably the mother, to ensure proper development. This approach received support at the federal level when then-Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates instituted several family-friendly measures, for certain facilities, including: improving infrastructure for video conferencing and informing inmates on how to contact their children if they were placed in the foster care system, among other improvements. \n\nThe last phase of the incarceration process is re-entry back into the community, but more importantly, back into the family structure. Though the time away is painful for the family, it does not always welcome back the previously incarcerated individual with open arms. Not only is the transition into the family difficult, but also into society as they are faced with establishing secure housing, insurance, and a new job.  As such, policymakers find it necessary to ease the transition of an incarcerated individual to the pre-arrest situation. Of the four outlined phases, re-entry is the least emphasized from a public policy perspective. This is not to say it is the least important, however, as there are concerns that time in a correctional facility can deteriorate the caretaking ability of some prisoners. As a result, Oklahoma has taken measurable strides by providing parents with the tools they need to re-enter their families, including classes on parenting skills.\n\nThough the effects on caregivers of these children vary based on factors such as the relationship to the prisoner and his or her support system, it is well-known that it is a financial and emotional burden to take care of a child. In addition to taking care of the their nuclear family, caregivers are now responsible for another individual who requires attention and resources to flourish. Depending on the relationship to the caregiver, the transition to a new household may not be easy for the child. The rationale behind targeting caregivers for intervention policies is to ensure the new environment for the children is healthy and productive. The federal government funds states to provide counseling to caretaking family members to alleviate some of the associated emotional burden. A more comprehensive program from Washington (state) employs \"kinship navigators\" to address caretakers' needs with initiatives such as parental classes and connections to legal services.\n\nFelony records greatly influence the chances of people finding employment. Many employers seem to use criminal history as a screening mechanism without attempting to probe deeper. They are often more interested in incarceration as a measure of employability and trustworthiness instead of its relation to any specific job. People who have felony records have a harder time finding a job. The psychological effects of incarceration can also impede an ex-felon's search for employment. Prison can cause social anxiety, distrust, and other psychological issues that negatively affect a person's reintegration into an employment setting. Men who are unemployed are more likely to participate in crime which leads to there being a 67% chance of ex-felons being charged again. In 2008, the difficulties male ex-felons in the United States had finding employment lead to approximately a 1.6% decrease in the employment rate alone. This is a loss of between $57 and $65 billion of output to the US economy.\n\nAlthough incarceration in general has a huge effect on employment, the effects become even more pronounced when looking at race. Devah Pager performed a study in 2003 and found that white males with no criminal record had a 34% chance of callback compared to 17% for white males with a criminal record. Black males with no criminal record were called back at a rate of 14% while the rate dropped to 5% for those with a criminal record. Black men with no criminal background have a harder time finding employment than white men who have a history of criminal activity. While having a criminal record decreases the chance of a callback for white men by 50%, it decreases the callback chances for black men by 64%.\n\nWhile Pager's study is greatly informative, it does lack some valuable information. Pager only studied white and black males, which leaves out women and people of other races. It also fails to account for the fact that applying for jobs has largely shifted from applying in person to applying over the Internet. A study done by Scott H. Decker, Cassia Spohn, Natalie R. Ortiz, and Eric Hedberg from Arizona State University in 2014 accounts for this missing information. This study was set up similarly to the Pager study, but with the addition of female job applicants, Hispanic job applicants, and online job applications. Men and women of white, black, and Hispanic ethnicities account for 92% of the US prison population.\n\nThe results of Arizona State University study were somewhat different from Pager's study, but the main finding was expected: Incarceration decreased the chances of getting employed. For females submitting applications online and in-person, regardless of criminal history, white women received the most amount of callbacks, roughly 40%. Hispanic women followed up with a 34% callback rate. Black women had the lowest rate at 27%. The effects of incarceration on female applicants in general were that females with a prison record were less likely to receive a callback compared to females without a prison record. The significant exceptions are white women applying in person and Hispanic women with a community college degree applying online.\n\nFor males submitting applications online and in-person, regardless of criminal history, Hispanic males received the most amount of callbacks, roughly 38%. White males followed up with a 35% callback rate. Black males had the lowest rate at 27%. The effects of incarceration on male applicants applying in-person was that males with a prison record were less likely than males without a prison record to receive a callback. However, the effects of incarceration on male applicants applying online were nearly nonexistent. In fact, the study found that \"there was no effect of race/ethnicity, prison record, or community college [education] on men's success in advancing through the [online] hiring process\". The Arizona State University study also had results that contradicted Pager's study. It found that white males with a prison record did not have a higher callback rate than black males (and Hispanic males) without a prison record. Hispanic men without a prison record had a 40% higher callback rate than white males with a prison record, and black men without a prison record had a 6% higher callback rate than white males without a prison record.\n\nMass incarceration cannot be remedied in a short length of time, because each prisoner serves a separate sentence, the average length of sentences has risen over the last 35 years and public support for prison reform is still relatively low. Decriminalizing drugs has been suggested by libertarians and advocated for by socialists, but remains a remote political option. Additional parole and probation can be facilitated with enhanced electronic monitoring, though monitoring is expensive. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld prisoner releases to relieve California's unconstitutional prison conditions in \"Brown v. Plata,\" long-standing litigation wherein the federal courts intervened as they have done in most states through the years.\n\nThere is also the Prison abolition movement which calls for the immediate elimination and reduction of both public and private prisons. Angela Davis is a popular advocate for the prison abolition movement and has outlined how organizations like G4S, the third largest private corporation just behind McDonald's and Foxconn, make a huge profit from privatized prisons across the globe. Socialists have been a major advocate for abolition of prisons and argues that capitalism has led to the creation of prisons as well as mass-incarceration by pointing to G4S which profits from locking up other people behind bars and segregating lands in other countries, as well as enforcing borders and deporting immigrants. Angela Davis explains many of these views and how to implement reforms based on rehabilitation over incarceration.\n\nThere is greater indication that education in prison helps prevent reincarceration. Many people inside prisons lack education. Dropout rates are seven times greater for children in impoverished areas than those who come from families of higher incomes. This is due to the fact that many children in poverty are more likely to have to work and care for family members. People in prisons generally come from poverty creating a continuous cycle of poverty and incarceration.\n\nHigh rates of incarceration may be due to sentence length, which is further driven by many other factors. Shorter sentences may even diminish the criminal culture by possibly reducing re-arrest rates for first-time convicts. The U.S. Congress has ordered federal judges to make imprisonment decisions \"recognizing that imprisonment is not an appropriate means of promoting correction and rehabilitation.\"\n\nCritics have lambasted the United States for incarcerating a large number of non-violent and victimless offenders; half of all persons incarcerated under state jurisdiction are for non-violent offenses, and 20% are incarcerated for drug offenses (in state prisons; federal prison percentages are higher). \"Human Rights Watch believes the extraordinary rate of incarceration in the United States wreaks havoc on individuals, families and communities, and saps the strength of the nation as a whole.\" The population of inmates housed in prisons and jails in the United States exceeds 2 million, with the per capita incarceration population higher than that officially reported by any other country. Criminal justice policy in the United States has also been criticized for a number of other reasons. In the 2014 book \",\" journalist Matt Taibbi argues that the expanding disparity of wealth and the increasing criminalization of those in poverty have culminated in the U.S. having the largest prison population \"in the history of human civilization.\" The scholars Michael Meranze and Marie Gottschalk contend that the massive \"carceral state\" extends far beyond prisons, and distorts democracy, degrades society, and obstructs meaningful discourse on criminal punishment. A December 2017 report by Philip Alston, the U.N. Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, asserted that the justice system throughout the U.S. is designed to keep people mired in poverty and to generate revenue to fund the justice system and other governmental programs.\n\nSome scholars have linked the ascent of neoliberal, free market ideology in the late 1970s to mass incarceration. Sociologist Loïc Wacquant postulates the expansive prison system has become a political institution designed to deal with an urban crisis created by welfare state retrenchment and economic deregulation, and that this \"overgrown and intrusive penal state\" is \"deeply injurious to the ideals of democratic citizenship.\" Academic and activist Angela Davis argues that prisons in the U.S. have \"become venues of profit as well as punishment;\" as mass incarceration has increased, the prison system has become more about economic factors than criminality. Professor of Law at Columbia University Bernard Harcourt contends that neoliberalism holds the state as incompetent when it comes to economic regulation but proficient at policing and punishing, and that this paradox has resulted in the expansion of penal confinement. According to \"The Routledge Handbook of Poverty in the United States\", \"neoliberal social and economic policy has more deeply embedded the carceral state within the lives of the poor, transforming what it means to be poor in America.\"\n\nAnother possibly cause for this increase of incarceration since the 1970s could be the \"war on drugs,\" which started around that time. More elected prosecutors were favored by voters for promising to take more harsh approaches than their opponents, such as locking up more people.\n\nReporting at the annual meeting of the American Sociological Association (August 3, 2008), Becky Pettit, associate professor of sociology from the University of Washington and Bryan Sykes, a UW post-doctoral researcher, revealed that the mammoth increase in the United States's prison population since the 1970s is having profound demographic consequences that affect 1 in 50 Americans. Drawing data from a variety of sources that looked at prison and general populations, the researchers found that the boom in prison population is hiding lowered rates of fertility and increased rates of involuntary migration to rural areas and morbidity that is marked by a greater exposure to and risk of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and HIV or AIDS.\n\nGuilty plea bargains concluded 97% of all federal cases in 2011.\n\n, two state prison systems, Alabama and South Carolina, segregated prisoners based on their HIV status. On December 21, U.S. District Court Judge Myron Thompson ruled in a lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) on behalf of several inmates that Alabama's practice in doing so violated federal disabilities law. He noted the state's \"outdated and unsupported assumptions about HIV and the prison system's ability to deal with HIV-positive prisoners.\"\n\nOn August 12, 2013, at the American Bar Association's House of Delegates meeting, Attorney General Eric Holder announced the \"Smart on Crime\" program, which is \"a sweeping initiative by the Justice Department that in effect renounces several decades of tough-on-crime anti-drug legislation and policies.\" Holder said the program \"will encourage U.S. attorneys to charge defendants only with crimes \"for which the accompanying sentences are better suited to their individual conduct, rather than excessive prison terms more appropriate for violent criminals or drug kingpins…\" Running through Holder's statements, the increasing economic burden of over-incarceration was stressed. , the Smart on Crime program is not a legislative initiative but an effort \"limited to the DOJ's policy parameters.\"\n\nThe procedural use of strip searches and cavity searches in the prison system has raised human rights concerns.\n\nIn relation to popular culture, mass incarceration has become a popular issue in the Hip-Hop community. Artists like Tupac Shakur, NWA, LL Cool J, and Kendrick Lamar have written songs and poems that condemn racial disparities in the criminal justice system, specifically the practice of police officers targeting African Americans. By presenting the negative implications of mass incarceration in a way that is widespread throughout popular culture, rap music is more likely to impact younger generations than a book or scholarly article would. Hip hop accounts of mass incarceration are based on victim-based testimony and are effective in inspiring others to speak out against the corrupt criminal justice system.\n\nIn addition to references in popular music, mass incarceration has also played a role in modern film. For example, Ava DuVernay's Netflix film \"13th,\" released in 2017, criticizes mass incarceration and compares it to the history of slavery throughout the United States, beginning with the provision of the 13th Amendment that allows for involuntary servitude \"as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted.\" The film delivers the staggering message that mass incarceration could be equated to the post-Civil War Jim Crow Era.\n\nThe fight against mass incarceration has also been a part of the larger discourse in the 21st century movement for Black Lives. #BlackLivesMatter, a progressive movement created by Alicia Garza after the death of Trayvon Martin, was designed as an online platform to fight against anti-black sentiments such as mass incarceration, police brutality, and ingrained racism within modern society. According to Garza, \"Black Lives Matter is an ideological and political intervention in a world where Black lives are systematically and intentionally targeted for demise. It is an affirmation of Black folks' contributions to this society, our humanity, and our resilience in the face of deadly oppression.\" This movement has focused on specific racial issues faced by African Americans in the justice system including police brutality, ending capital punishment, and eliminating \"the criminalization and dehumanization of Black youth across all areas of society.\" \n\nThe Federal Bureau of Prisons, a division of the United States Department of Justice, is responsible for the administration of United States federal prisons.\n\nImprisonment by the state judicial systems has steadily diminished since 2006 to 2012, from 689,536 annually to 553,843 annually.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53163514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53163514", "title": "IndigenousX", "text": "IndigenousX\n\nIndigenousX is an Aboriginal owned and operated independent media company founded in 2013 by Luke Pearson. IndigenousX began as a rotating Twitter account showcasing diverse Indigenous Australian experiences and perspectives. Kath Viner approached IndigenousX with an opportunity to collaborate with The Guardian when she was editor of Guardian Australia. The account has been called \"one of Australia's leading online platforms featuring true representations of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander voices\", and highlighted for its influential role in public debate and the example it sets in the evolution of news media. The weekly host of the Twitter account has an article published within the IndigenousX column in \"Guardian Australia\".\n\nPast IndigenousX hosts include social justice commissioner Mick Gooda, activist Amy McQuire, academic Marcia Langton, blogger Celeste Liddle, rapper Adam Briggs, former elite rugby union player Mark Ella, former Olympian and government minister Nova Peris, lawyer John Paul Janke, and actor Miranda Tapsell.\n\nA spinoff account, IndigenousXca, covers First Nations, Inuit and Métis experiences in Canada. Operated by Chelsea Vowel, IndigenousXca was instrumental in raising issues around prominent author Joseph Boyden's claimed Indigenous heritage,\n\n"}
{"id": "19887263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19887263", "title": "Innovative Technology Experiences for Students", "text": "Innovative Technology Experiences for Students\n\nFunded by the National Science Foundation, the Innovative Technology Experiences for Students and Teachers (ITEST) program was established in 2003 to address the looming shortage of technology workers in the United States. ITEST engages students and teachers in authentic, hands-on learning experiences in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (commonly referred to as 'STEM' or 'SET' [more common in the U.K.]).\n\nAs of early 2012, the program is in its ninth year. Over 195 individual projects across 43 states have been funded. It has impacted:\n\nThe ITEST Learning Resource Center (ITEST LRC) at Education Development Center assists the projects in building bridges between formal and informal learning by facilitating an inclusive community of practice. Findings and lessons learned are shared nationally to improve policy and practice. Visit the website with the link below, or view a 2-page overview (Snapshot).\n\n(1) https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=5467\n(2) http://itestlrc.edc.org/\n(3) http://itestlrc.edc.org/sites/itestlrc.edc.org/files/Snapshot_2012_Final.pdf\n"}
{"id": "54443966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54443966", "title": "Intonjane", "text": "Intonjane\n\nIntonjane is a Xhosa rite of passage into womanhood practiced in the Eastern Cape of South Africa. The ritual takes place after a girl has had her first period. This ritual is symbolic of a girl’s sexual maturity and ability to conceive. It is through this ritual that girls are taught about socially accepted behaviours of Xhosa women, while also encouraging them not to have sex before marriage. \nThe origins of the name \"intonjane\" is associated with the life cycle of a stick insect. At the end of its larval stage, caterpillars encase themselves in a little grass-like mat cocoon where till it is ready to emerge as an adult. During these months, trees have these grassy cocoons that Xhosa people refer to as \"ntonjane\". The kind of grass that the girl sits on during the ritual, called inxkopho, bears a resemblance to the cocoons encasing of the caterpillars on the tree, hence the name \"intonjane\". The intonjane ritual takes three to six weeks, and several events take place during that period.\n\nWhen the girl has had her first menstruation, she notifies her mother, who in turn informs her father, who then calls on a traditional gathering called ibhunga. Jewellery made from grass is placed around her neck and waist as a symbol of her coming to age.\nThe \"ibhunga\" gathering is marked by the making of \"umqombothi webhunga\" (traditional beer). It is during this event that the girl is informed that she is going to attend the \"intonjane\" ceremony. She then wears a necklace made from a string of a live ox’s tail hair, referred to as \"ubulunga\". The necklace is a symbol of fertility and that the girl is ready to accept marriage proposals.\n\nIt is then that the girl goes into seclusion with \"amakhankatha\" (assistants) and her aunt. This seclusion is referred to as \"umngeno\" as it is the day that the initiate goes into isolation. The first week is marked by the initiate being placed behind a curtain without any of her clothes, apart from a black doek, and inkciyo, a beaded skirt that serves as a garment covering the pubic area. Her body is painted with white ochre, representing contact with the ancestral spirits and seclusion from tribal life.\n\nAfter the first or second evening, a goat is slaughtered by the father or the men of the family. After slaughtering the goat, a young man is selected to roast a piece of meat called ‘isiphika’. Once the meat is roasted, a sharpened stick is used to pick it up and the meat is given to the initiate, who is not allowed to eat it using her hands. Her assistants are not allowed to eat it with their hands.\n\nAfter \"umngenandlini\", on the fourth day or any even numbered day after the seclusion of the initiate, a ceremony that simulates a marriage ceremony is held. The reason why \"umtshato\" must be held on an even numbered day is that the even number is symbolic of two families in a marriage union.\n\nThis ritual is marked by the slaughtering of an ox, the right shoulder of the ox, called \"umshwamo\", is placed into the chosen special hut from the girl's homestead for the night. The following day, one of \"amakhankatha\" cooks the meat and the meat is eaten using the same stick that was used when eating the goat meat from umngenandlini. This ritual is a three-day celebration where the public is witness to the girl’s new role as woman.\n\nThis is an event marked by the disposal of the initiate’s sanitary towels or whatever she used during her period. It is after the disposal that the girl and her \"amakhankatha\" must burn the stick that they have been using to eat the meat. The initiate and her assistants look for a place to burn the stick. Then one of her assistants ties the stick to the bunch of grass they have chosen to use as tinder and burns it. After the fire, the initiate and her assistants disperse the ashes everywhere. This is symbolic of the ending of the initiate’s childhood stage and the beginning of her journey into womanhood. After dispersing of the ashes, the girls run home. However, the initiate must run fast and be ahead of her assistants because if they catch up to her, she will have to stay in the hut for an extended period.\n\nBefore the end of the girl’s seclusion, a party is thrown for all the women in the village. This event is referred to as \"umngqungqo\". Women are clad in bright-coloured clothing and beads during this event. In the morning after the last day of the party, the initiate goes to the river to wash the white ochre and it is replaced by the yellow one referred to as \"umdike\". The initiate and her assistants wear new clothes upon their return from the river. It is then that celebrations continue, to mark the end of the \"intonjane\" ritual.\n\n"}
{"id": "11404977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11404977", "title": "Japanese Canadians", "text": "Japanese Canadians\n\nThe term Nikkei (日系) was coined by sociologists and encompasses all of the world's Japanese immigrants across generations. Japanese descendents living overseas have special names for each of their generations. These are formed by combining one of the Japanese numerals with the Japanese word for generation (\"sei\" 世):ada:\n\nThe first Japanese settler in Canada was Manzo Nagano, who lived in Victoria, British Columbia in 1877 (a mountain in the province was named after him in 1977). The first generation, or Issei, mostly came to Vancouver Island, the Fraser Valley and Rivers Inlet from fishing villages on the islands of Kyūshū and Honshū between 1877 and 1928. Since 1967, the second wave of immigrants were usually highly educated and resided in urban areas.\n\nUntil 1948, Japanese-Canadians—both \"Issei\" and Canadian-born \"Nisei\"—were denied the right to vote. Those born in the 1950s and 1960s in Canada are mostly Sansei, third generation. Sansei usually have little knowledge of the Japanese language. Over 75% of the \"Sansei\" have married non-Japanese. \"Nisei\" and \"Sansei\" generally do not identify themselves as fully Japanese, but as Canadians first, who happen to be of Japanese ancestry.\n\nThe younger generation of Japanese-Canadians born in the late 20th century are mostly \"Yonsei\", fourth generation. Many \"Yonsei\" are of mixed racial descent. According to Statistics Canada's 2001 census of population information, Japanese-Canadians were the Canadian visible minority group most likely to marry or live common-law with a non-Japanese partner. Out of the 25,100 couples in Canada in 2001 which had one Japanese person, only 30% had two partners of Japanese descent and 70% included one non-Japanese partner. As of 2001, 65% of Canada's Japanese population was born in Canada.\n\nIn 1942, the federal government used the War Measures Act to brand Japanese Canadians enemy aliens and categorized them as security threats. There were 20,881 Japanese placed in internment camps and road camps in British Columbia; prison of war camps in Ontario; and families were also sent as forced labourers to farms throughout the prairies. Three-quarters of them were Canadian [technically British subjects, as were all Canadians, since Canadian citizenship did not exist prior to 1947]. A parallel situation occurred in the United States. (See Japanese American internment.)\n\nThe property and homes of Japanese Canadians living in the province of British Columbia were seized and sold off without consent in 1943. The funds were used to pay for their internment. They also had to \"pay rent\" for living in the internment shacks they were assigned. In 1945, after the war, as part of the continued effort to remove all Japanese Canadians from British Columbia, Prime Minister MacKenzie King's cabinet used Orders-in-Council to extend the powers of the War Measures Act and Japanese Canadians give two \"options\": to either be relocated to another province, i.e. \"East of the Rockies\", or to go \"back\" to Japan (though most were born in Canada and had never been to Japan). After organized protests by against their treatment, they were finally given the right to vote in 1949. Mobility restrictions were lifted in 1949.\n\nIn the late 1970s and 1980s, documents on the Japanese Canadian internment were released, and redress was sought by the National Association of Japanese Canadians, an organization representing Japanese Canadians nationally that was headed by Art Miki from Winnipeg. In 1986, it was shown that Japanese Canadians lost $443 million during the internment. There were 63% of Canadians who supported redress and 45% who favoured individual compensation. On September 22, 1988, the National Association of Japanese Canadians succeeded in negotiating a redress settlement with the government at the time, under the leadership of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. The settlement included $21,000 for each individual directly affected, that was, by 1993, almost 18,000 survivors. The federal government also provided a community endowment fund to assist in rebuilding the community, which is run by the National Association of Japanese Canadians. In addition, to address the more systemic racism that led to the plan and later justifications of the effort to remove \"all people of Japanese racial origin\" from Canadian territory, the redress settlement included the establishment of the Race Relations Foundation and challenges to the War Measures Act. The Prime Minister also offered a formal apology in the House of Commons and the certificate of acknowledgement of injustices of the past, which was sent to each Japanese Canadian whose rights had been stripped, incarcerated, dispossessed and forcibly displaced.\n\nHoshū jugyō kō (Japanese supplementary schools) for instruction of the Japanese language include those in Calgary, Edmonton, Halifax, London, Montreal, Ottawa, Saskatoon, Toronto, and Vancouver.\n\nWith teachers from Japan:\n\nWithout teachers from Japan:\n\nJapanese Canadian population by province and territory in Canada in 2016 according to Statistics Canada:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nhttp://generalfinecraft.com/gallery-artists/2d-painting-drawing-printmaking-illustration/norman-takeuchi/\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10823418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10823418", "title": "Journal of Water Resources Planning and Management", "text": "Journal of Water Resources Planning and Management\n\nThe Journal of Water Resources Planning and Management is a monthly scientific journal of engineering published by the American Society of Civil Engineers since 1993. The journal covers the development of methods, theories, and applications to current administrative, economic, engineering, planning, and social issues as they apply to water resources management. It publishes papers on analytical, experimental, and numerical methods with regard to the investigation of physical or conceptual models related to these issues. It also publishes technical notes, book reviews, and forum discussions. The journal requires the use of the metric system, but allows for authors to also submit their papers in other systems of measure in addition to the SI system.\n\nThe current editor in chief is David W. Watkins, Jr. (Michigan Tech University).\n\n"}
{"id": "518100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=518100", "title": "Language demographics of Quebec", "text": "Language demographics of Quebec\n\nThis article presents the current language demographics of the Canadian province of Quebec.\n\nThe complex nature of Quebec's linguistic situation, with individuals who are often bilingual or multilingual, requires the use of multiple terms in order to describe the languages which people speak.\n\n\nAmong the ten provinces of Canada, Quebec is the only one whose majority is francophone. Quebec's population accounts for 23.9% of the Canadian population, and Quebec's francophones account for about 90% of Canada's French-speaking population.\n\nEnglish-speaking Quebecers are a large population in the Greater Montreal Area, where they have built a well-established network of educational, social, economic, and cultural institutions. There are also historical English-speaking communities in the Eastern Townships, the Ottawa Valley, the Laurentians (such as Ste. Agathe des Monts, Ste. Adolphe de Howard, Arundel, Lachute, Mont Tremblant) and the Gaspé Peninsula. By contrast, the population of Quebec City, the second-largest city in the province, is almost exclusively francophone. Overall in the province the proportion of native English speakers dropped significantly between 1951 and 2001, from 13.8% to 8% in 2001, while it has since stabilized.\n\nThe remaining 13% of the population, known as allophones, are native speakers of more than 30 different languages. With the exception of Aboriginal peoples in Quebec (the Inuit, Huron,Mohawks, Iroquois, Abenaki, Montagnais, Cree, Innu, Ojibway etc.), the majority are products of recent immigration and often come to adopt either English or French as home languages.\n\nOf the population of 7,903,001 counted by the 2011 census, 7,815,955 completed the section about language. Of these, 7,663,120 gave singular responses to the question regarding their first language. The languages most commonly reported were the following:\n\nNumerous other languages were also counted, but only languages with more than 2,000 native speakers are shown.(Percentages shown are the ratio between the number of singular responses and the number of total responses.)\n\nAll figures are rounded to 0.01%.\n\nThere are today three distinct territories in the Greater Montreal Area: the metropolitan region, Montreal Island, and Montreal, the city. (The island and the city were coterminous for a time between the municipal merger of 2002 and the \"demerger\" which occurred in January 2006.)\n\nQuebec allophones account for 9% of the population of Quebec. The vast majority of them (88%) reside in Greater Montreal. Anglophones are also concentrated in the region of Montreal (80% of their numbers).\n\nFrancophones account for 65% of the total population of Greater Montreal, anglophones 12.6% and allophones 20.4%. On the island of Montreal, the francophone majority dropped to 46.96% by 2011, a net decline since the 1970s owing to francophone outmigration to more affluent suburbs in Laval and the South Shore (fr. \"Rive-Sud\") and an influx of allophone immigrants. The anglophones account for 16.64% of the population and the allophones 35.24%.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, the rate of bilingualism (the percentage of the population that said they had knowledge of both English and French) is at 42.6 per cent in 2011, up from 40.6 per cent in 2006. (It is at 17.5 in Canada overall)\n\nAt 1.74 children per woman, Quebec's 2008 fertility rate was above the Canada-wide rate of 1.59, and had increased for five consecutive years. However, it remained below the replacement fertility rate of 2.1. This contrasts with its fertility rates before 1960, which were among the highest of any industrialized society. Although Quebec is home to only 23.9% of the population of Canada, the number of international adoptions in Quebec is the highest of all provinces of Canada. In 2001, 42% of international adoptions in Canada were carried out in Quebec.\n\nIn 2003, Quebec accepted some 37,619 immigrants. A large proportion of these immigrants originated from francophone countries and countries that are former French colonies. Countries from which significant numbers of people immigrate include Haiti, Congo-Brazzaville, Lebanon, Morocco, Rwanda, Syria, Algeria, France and Belgium. Under the Canada-Quebec Accord, Quebec has sole responsibility for selecting most immigrants destined to the province (see related article, Immigration to Canada).\n\nInterprovincial migration, especially to Ontario, results in a net loss of population in Quebec. The numbers of French-speaking Quebecers leaving the province tend to be similar to the number entering, while immigrants to Quebec are more likely to leave. Outmigration has most affected the English-speaking minority in Quebec, accounting for its population being significantly reduced since the 1970s.\n\n\nThere are two sets of language laws in Quebec, which overlap and in various areas conflict or compete with each other: the laws passed by the Parliament of Canada and the laws passed by the National Assembly of Quebec.\n\nSince 1982, both parliaments have had to comply with the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which constitutionalized a number of fundamental human rights and educational rights of minorities in all provinces (education is a provincial jurisdiction in Canada). Prior to this, Quebec was effectively the sole province required constitutionally to finance the educational needs of its linguistic minority. Ontario and Quebec are both required to finance schools for their principal religious minorities (Roman Catholic in Ontario, Protestant in Quebec), but only in Quebec is the minority almost completely composed of speakers of the minority language. (Quebec also provided English schools for anglophone Roman Catholics.) In 1997, an amendment to the constitution allowed for Quebec to replace its system of denominational school boards with a system of linguistic school boards.\n\nThe federal language law and regulations seek to make it possible for all Canadian anglophone and francophone citizens to obtain services in the language of their choice from the federal government. Ottawa promotes the adoption of bilingualism by the population and especially among the employees in the public service.\n\nIn contrast, the Quebec language law and regulations promote French exclusively as the common public language of all Quebecers. Although Quebec currently respects most of the constitutional rights of its anglophone minority, it took a series of court challenges to enforce. The government of Quebec promotes the adoption and the use of French and limits the presence of English. This is to counteract the trend towards the anglicization of the population of Quebec.\n\nThe following table shows summary data on the language shifts which have occurred in Quebec between 1971, year of the first Canadian census asking questions about home language, and 2001 :\n\nThe second column starting on the left shows the number of native speakers of each language, the third shows the number of speakers using it at home.\n\nThe fourth column shows the difference between the number of speakers according to home language and those who speak it as mother tongue.\n\nThe fifth column shows the quotient of the division between the number of home language speakers and the native speakers.\n\nUntil the 1960s, the francophone majority of Quebec had only very weak assimilation power and, indeed, did not seek to assimilate non-francophones. Although the quantity of non-francophones adopted French throughout history, the pressure and, indeed, consensus from French-language and English-language institutions was historically towards the anglicization, not francization, of allophones in Quebec. Only a high fertility rate allowed the francophone population to keep increasing in absolute numbers in spite of assimilation and emigration. In the early 1960s, with the rise of irreligion, the fertility rate of the Quebecois began declining in a manner consistent with most Western societies, and some in Quebec's francophone majority feared the beginning of a demographic collapse: unlike the anglophone sphere, the francophone sphere was not assimilating allophones, and lower fertility rates were therefore much more determinative.\nQuebec's language legislation has tried to address this since the 1960s when, as part of the Quiet Revolution, French Canadians chose to move away from Church domination and towards a stronger identification with state institutions as development instruments for their community. Instead of repelling non-Catholic immigrants from the French-language public school system and towards the Protestant-run English system, for instance, immigrants would now be encouraged to attend French-language schools. The ultimate quantifiable goal of Quebec's language policy is to establish French as Quebec's common public language.\n\nRecent census data show that goal has not been reached as successfully as hoped. After almost 30 years of enforcement of the Charter of the French Language, approximately 49% of allophone immigrants – including those who arrived before the Charter's adoption in 1977 – had assimilated to English, down from 71% in 1971, but still considerably more than anglophones' overall share of the province's population. This leads some Quebecers, particularly those who support the continued role of French as the province's common public language, to question whether the policy is being implemented successfully. The phenomenon is linked to the linguistic environments which cohabit Montreal – Quebec's largest city, Canada's second-largest metropolitan area, and home to a number of communities, neighbourhoods, and even municipalities in which English is the de facto common language. The anglophone minority's capacity to assimilate allophones and even francophones has therefore compensated to a large extent for the outmigration of anglophones to other provinces and even to the United States.\n\nA number of socio-economic factors are thought to be responsible for this reality. They include: the historic role of the English language in Canada and the U.S.; its growing influence in the business and scientific world; the perceived advantages of learning English that result from this prominence and which are particularly appealing to allophones who have yet to make a linguistic commitment; the historic association of English with immigrant Quebecers and French with ethnic French-Canadian Québécois, which plays into linguistic and identity politics; and the post-industrial clustering of anglophones into Montreal and away from regional communities. These factors go not only to allophone immigrants' direct linguistic assimilation, but also their indirect assimilation through contact with the private sector. Although the Charter of the French language makes French the official language of the workplace, the socio-economic factors cited here also often make English a requirement for employment, especially in Montreal, and to a lesser extent outside of it, notably in Canada's National Capital Region, bordering Ontario, and in the Eastern Townships, particularly Sherbrooke.\n\nThe result is a largely bilingual workforce. Francophones are often compelled to learn English to find employment (particularly in the Montreal area), while anglophones in the province are pressured to do the same with French, and allophones are asked to learn both. Census data adjusted for education and professional experience show that bilingual francophones had a greater income than bilingual anglophones by the year 2000.\n\nIn 2001, 29% of Quebec workers declared using English, either solely (193,320), mostly (293,320), equally with French (212,545) or regularly (857,420). The proportion rose to 37% in the Montreal metropolitan area, where bilingualism is common. Outside Montreal, on the other hand, the proportion of anglophones has shrunk to 3% of the population and, except on the Ontario and U.S. borders, struggles to maintain a critical mass to support educational and health institutions – a reality that only immigrants and francophones usually experience in the other provinces. Unilingual anglophones are however still on the decline because of the higher English-French bilingualism of the community's younger generations.\n\nNot all analysts are entirely comfortable with this picture of the status of the English language in Quebec. For example, a more refined analysis of the Census data shows that a great deal of anglicization continues to occur in the communities traditionally associated with the English-language group, e.g., the Chinese, Italian, Greek and Indo-Pakistani groups. Nevertheless, a majority of new immigrants in every census since 1971 have chosen French more often than English as their adopted language. Statistics Canada's 2011 National Household Survey of Canada reported that for the first time in modern history, the first official language of more than half of Quebec immigrants was French. Those who spoke French as their first official language formed 51.1% of all immigrants to the province, while an additional 16.3% spoke both French and English; among those who immigrated to the province between 2006 and 2011, the proportion who spoke French as their first official language was 58.8%.\n\nAboriginal peoples in Quebec are a heterogeneous group of about 71,000 individuals, who account for 9% of the total population of Aboriginal peoples in Canada. Approximately 60% of those are officially recognized as \"Indians\" under the federal Indian Act. Nearly half (47%) of this population in Quebec reported an Aboriginal language as mother tongue, the highest proportion of any province. The following table shows the demographic situations of Aboriginal peoples in Quebec:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1444447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1444447", "title": "List of Chinese administrative divisions by ethnic group", "text": "List of Chinese administrative divisions by ethnic group\n\nThe list below outlines the distribution of the nationalities of China among provinces and province-level entities of the People's Republic of China (P.R.C.) according to the census of 2000. The provinces and province-level entities are listed by region. The classification of ethnic groups follows the official classification of the PRC.\n\nSome ethnic groups, for instance, Mosuo people, although classified as Nakhi, do not regard themselves as part of any of the 56 groups identified by the PRC government. Some scholars made hypothesis that they are descendants of Mongols.\n\nTaiwan is completely under the administration of the Republic of China, is excluded from this list. Please refer to Demographics of Taiwan for more information. The two special administrative regions (S.A.R.) of the P.R.C., namely Hong Kong and Macau, are not part of mainland China are also excluded. Please refer to Demographics of Hong Kong and Demographics of Macau.\n\nAutonomous regions are marked with an asterisk (*).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53268245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53268245", "title": "Moctezuma's Table", "text": "Moctezuma's Table\n\nMoctezuma's table refers to both the place and the manner in which the Aztec emperor (Tlatoani) ate his food. Important chronologists were witnesses to this daily ritual. One of these, Bernal Díaz del Castillo, extrapolated in his book, \"The True History of the Conquest of New Spain (Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España),\" how the Mexicas specific protocols and etiquette were passed down from one generation to the next. The abundance of typical meals that were found in this daily banquet are largely reflected in today's Mexican cuisine. Moctezuma's table represents more than just Aztec cuisine and the perfection of great eating (buen comer) because it also demonstrates the prerogative that was required to create them. Trade routes and agreements with civilizations bordering Aztec territory were essential in order to have the most delicious and fresh ingredients.\n\nAnother chronologist, Fray Francisco de Aguilar, mentions some of the typical meals that were served in this spectacular ritual. A legend exists that Moctezuma II also enjoyed various types of meat, human flesh among them. It is said that he ate the flesh of slaves, youth, women, and children etc. depending on which god the sacrifice was directed towards. Typical food that continues to be part of Mexican culture could be identified from his meals as well, such as: cacao (cocoa), maize, tomato and a large variety of spices (such as vanilla) etc. Among other typical meals were found:\n\nAztec cuisine\n\nMexican cuisine\n\nMoctezumas II\n"}
{"id": "39080038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39080038", "title": "Mohammad Ibraheem Khwakhuzhi", "text": "Mohammad Ibraheem Khwakhuzhi\n\nUstad Mohammad Ibraheem Khwakhuzhi () son of Dur Mohammad Khan Baloch (descendant of Khan of Kalat Mir Muhammad Nasir Khan I) was born on 28 February 1920 in Malajat district of Kandahar province, Afghanistan.\nHis son Gharzai Khwakhuzhi is an active politician in Afghan government and his grandson Gharanai Khwakhuzhi is an Afghan Foreign Service Officer at Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.\n\nMohammad Ibraheem Khwakhuzhi started his primary schooling at age 6 and after his baccalaureate in 1936 he attended Teachers Training College finishing it successfully in 1938.\nIn 1942 he managed to get a diploma in Education and Literature followed by a degree in Journalism in 1962.\nAfter graduation he started his teaching career as principle of Ahmad Shah Baba High School in Kandahar and later on as the teacher of literature at Habibia High School.\nHis first poem was published in 1934 (at the age of 14) in Tolo-e-Afghan newspaper.\n\nMohammad Ibraheem Khwakhuzhi started his political career with the establishment of Weesh Zalmyan (Awakened Youth) movement in 1947 where he was amongst the founding members of the movement from Kandahar province.\nMr. Zarmalwal mentions him in one of his articles which states;\n\nIn 1950 Weesh Zalmyan movement came under a crackdown of the government for its liberal and modernized demands and Mohammad Ibraheem Khwakhuzhi who was then director of Education in Kandahar Province, became the first member of the movement to be arrested.\nGhulam Gelani Khan writes about this in a topic in Mohammad Alam Buserkai’s book called “Weesh Zalmyan” where he states;\nLater in mid 60s he joined the Progressive Democratic Party of Afghanistan under the leadership of Late. Mohammad Hashim Maiwandwal.\n\nAfter Khwakhuzhi was released he was forced to leave Kandahar province, therefore, he settled in Kabul and started his public service career in the Government of Afghanistan.\nHis performed his service for the government in the following order:\nIn 1956, he was assigned as a skilled member of Pashto Academy \nIn 1957, as the Head of Broadcast Monitoring of Radio Afghanistan \nIn 1959, as the deputy director of Radio Afghanistan \nIn 1960, as the deputy director of Afghan Theater (Pohane Nandare) as well as teacher of History in Naderia High School \nIn 1961, he was selected as a member of Afghan-China Friendship Association \nIn 1963, he was assigned as the Director General of Literature at the Ministry of Publications (then) \nIn 1966, as the Director General of the Book Publication in the Ministry of Culture \nIn 1967, as the President of Public Libraries of Afghanistan \nIn 1969, he was selected as a member of the Afghan National Committee for UNESCO \nIn 1971, as the Director General of Virtue of Pashtu Language at the Academy of Sciences \nIn 1973, he was invited by Shah Faisal to visit Saudi Arabia and during his visit he also completed a pilgrimage \"(Hajj)\" to Mecca. \nIn the same year after the regime change and Daoud Khan coming to power, Khwakhuzhi was required to retire from public service.\n\nAfter his retirement, Khwakhuzhi returned to reciting poems writing, and teaching, including teaching Tafsir of Quran at Qala-e-Fatehullah mosque, Kabul. \nOn 24 October 1992, due to long-standing diabetes and cardiovascular disease, he died in Kabul and was buried in Shuhada-e-Saliheen, Kabul.\n\nDuring his life Mohammad Ibraheem Khwakhuzhi was rewarded by the Government of Afghanistan for his service with the following honors:\n\nHe left behind nine books consisting of poems, stories and philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "3069166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3069166", "title": "Movember", "text": "Movember\n\nMovember (a portmanteau of the Australian-English diminutive word for moustache, \"mo\", and \"November\") is an annual event involving the growing of moustaches during the month of November to raise awareness of men's health issues, such as prostate cancer, testicular cancer, and men's suicide. The Movember Foundation runs the Movember charity event, housed at Movember.com. The goal of Movember is to \"change the face of men's health.\"\n\nBy encouraging men (whom the charity refers to as \"Mo Bros\") to get involved, Movember aims to increase early cancer detection, diagnosis and effective treatments, and ultimately reduce the number of preventable deaths. Besides annual check-ups, the Movember Foundation encourages men to be aware of family history of cancer and to adopt a healthier lifestyle.\n\nSince 2004, the Movember Foundation charity has run Movember events to raise awareness and funds for men's health issues, such as prostate cancer and depression, in Australia and New Zealand. In 2007, events were launched in Ireland, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, El Salvador, Spain, the United Kingdom, Israel, South Africa, Taiwan and the United States. As of 2011, Canadians were the largest contributors to the Movember charities of any nation. In 2010, Movember merged with the testicular cancer event Tacheback.\n\nIn 2012, the Global Journal listed Movember as one of the world's top 100 NGOs (non-government organization).\n\n\"Seven Nightly News\" aired a story in 1999 including a group of young men in Adelaide, South Australia who coined the term \"Movember\" and the idea of growing moustaches for charity throughout the month of November. In the news report, members of the Adelaide-based \"Movember Committee\" explained how they came up with the idea for Movember one night in the pub. The group started with 80 men from Adelaide and soon became a nationwide phenomenon. They also aimed to raise money for the RSPCA through selling T-shirts in what they termed \"Growing whiskers for whiskers\".\n\nIn 2004, an unrelated group in Melbourne, Victoria organised an event where 30 men would grow a moustache for 30 days in order to raise awareness for prostate cancer and depression in men. This group would later become the Movember Foundation charity.\n\nThe Movember Foundation has since raised $174-million worldwide, after spreading to South Africa and Europe, reaching North America in 2006. In 2010, participants in the United States alone raised over $7.5 million. In 2012, 1.1 million people signed up to participate, raising upwards of $95 million.\n\nThe charity launched The Moscars in 2010, an online global user-submitted video contest that helps Movember participants showcase their involvement in the movement. Submissions cannot be longer than 4 minutes each, and prizes can be won in several categories.\n\nIn 2012, head judge Stan Lee awarded the Moscar to South Africa's comedy duo Derick Watts & The Sunday Blues for their video, \"The Movember Song\", a parody of Carly Rae Jepsen's hit \"Call Me Maybe\".\n\nThe International Man of Movember is chosen from 21 national winners all over the world to wear the crown and be the face of Movember for a whole year. Each national Man of Movember winner is voted in at that particular country's main Gala Parté, held at the end of November, by both judges and fans.\n\nThe very first champion was Mark Knight from London in 2010. South Africa's Anton Taylor won the title in 2011, and in 2012 it was Chris Thwaites from New Zealand who won the coveted sash. 2013 saw Sweden's Tom Rickard crowned.\n\nIn November 2007, at Scots College in Wellington, New Zealand, several graduating students were banned from end-of-year prizes for growing moustaches and the college threatened to ban a senior student from their NCEA examinations (official secondary school qualification) for growing a moustache during November.\n\nIn 2007, the Movember Foundation events were featured on Australian tabloid current affairs program \"Today Tonight\", which accused the foundation of spending a disproportionate amount on running costs and high salaries for its directors. The financial summary of the Australian 2008 Movember campaign listed campaign costs (administration and fundraising) as being 8% of the total amount raised. In 2007, campaign costs were listed as 9% of total amount raised.\n\nIn 2011, Google Chrome partnered with Movember to create a video. The video featured real participants, and how they utilize the web and Movember.com to raise awareness and funds for the cause. The video generated well over 1.1 million views. It featured the Handsome Furs song \"Repatriated.\" \n\nIn 2010 and 2011, Movember partnered with TOMS to create limited edition Movember shoes for those participating.\n\nIn 2011, Qantas supported Movember by painting a moustache and \"Movember.com\" on one of its airplanes.\n\nIn 2011, the world's largest sandcastle Mo was built on Bondi Beach, in Sydney, New South Wales.\n\nA 2012 Movember video featuring \"Parks and Recreation\" star Nick Offerman was one of the top 10 most watched charity videos of the year, with 1.9 million views. Offerman made additional sketches for Movember 2013.\n\nSince 2012, Royal Mail has supported the Movember campaign and created a special postmark featuring a moustache.\n\nIn November 2013, the UK National Trust authorised the temporary placement of a huge grass moustache to the Cerne Abbas Giant, the UK's largest chalk hill figure. The moustache added to the giant. was wide and deep according to the designer but both the National Trust and the BBC reported it as being ,\n\nIn 2015 Carlsberg Group beer brand made special Movember beer beauty accessories to look after mustaches and beard.\n\nMany high-profile athletes, celebrities, and dignitaries have supported the Movember Foundation, including Australian World Champion surfer Mick Fanning; author, columnist, and presenter Samantha Brett; \"Today\" sports presenter Cameron Williams; ex-\"Big Brother\" housemate Ryan Fitzgerald; Queensland cricket all-rounder Andrew Symonds; and several AFL players. NHL \"tough guy\" George Parros, alongside Bill McCreary, shaved his moustache to participate in the 2010 Movember event.\n\nIn 2009, many of the Australian rugby union team players were seen sporting moustaches during the Autumn Test Series. 2009 F1 World Champion Jenson Button started his support for Movember by showing off his blond moustache at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.\n\nIndian cricketers Ravindra Jadeja and Shikhar Dhawan support this cause too.\n\nIn 2010, some of the Montreal Canadiens were seen sporting moustaches during the month of November, with a video appearing on the Canadiens homepage, thus confirming the worldwide spread of Movember.\n\n2011 Movember Ambassadors included Foster the People,\nMorgan Spurlock, George Parros of the Anaheim Ducks,\nSnoop Dogg,\nKevin Connolly,\nBrody Jenner,\nMatt Leinart,\nBloomberg TV's Matt Miller,\nMr. Clean,\nUFC Lightweight Champ Frankie Edgar, and \nPhilip Bloom.\n\nSouth Africa's ambassador for Movember is rapper Jack Parow.\n\nMovember is regularly supported by sporting organisations and celebrities in New Zealand, with names such as national rugby captain Richie McCaw actively involved in supporting the charity.\n\nSince 2004, the Movember Foundation charity has used Movember to raise awareness and funds for men's health issues in Australia and New Zealand. Monetary proceeds go toward the Prostate Cancer Foundation of Australia, the Cancer Society and Mental Health Foundation of New Zealand, and Beyond Blue.\n\nIn 2007, the Foundation launched campaigns in Canada (funds raised go to the Prostate Cancer Research Foundation of Canada), Spain (FEFOC), the United Kingdom Prostate Cancer UK, and the United States (the Prostate Cancer Foundation and the Livestrong Foundation). In the US, Movember's men's health partners are The Prostate Cancer Foundation and LIVESTRONG.\n\nIn 2008, the Movember Foundation started the event in the Republic of Ireland. The beneficiary in that country is Action Prostate Cancer, an initiative of the Irish Cancer Society.\n\nA non-foundation Movember event has been held in the Cayman Islands by a \"MOvember Committee\" since 2006. The event has been sponsored by CML Offshore Recruitment and raises funds for the Cayman Islands Cancer Society.\n\nPlayers in Football Manager 2015 grow moustaches during the month of November.\n\nFIFA 14 Ultimate Team features a Movember Cup.\n\nSony released a moustache sticker intended to be placed on the front of the DualShock 4 controller in support of Movember.\n\nIn November 2012, four Movember themed games were released as Google Chrome web apps.\n\nWarframe also released a movember special with new mustaches each week for the players to equip on their frames in 2015\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12281071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12281071", "title": "Muhammad Abdullah Ghazi", "text": "Muhammad Abdullah Ghazi\n\nMaulana Muhammad Abdullah Ghazi (Urdu:)Son of (Ghazi Muhammad), was born on June 1, 1935 - died October 17, 1998, born in the far-flung village of Rajanpur, Basti-Abdullah into the family of farmer but his father was socially active that got him in trouble many times and was arrested by British and sentenced to 8 years. In jail he became religious and motivated Abdullah to enrolled into a local madrassa at the age of 7 and later he moved to Karachi for further study. In accordance with his father's wish, he dedicated himself to study and graduated from Jamia Uloom-ul-Islamia in Banori-town Karachi.he was appointed as the first Imam of the Lal Masjid in 1966. He created many seminaries in Pakistan and the first time in Pakistan, he introduced a female madrassa education system and created Pakistan's first female seminary Jamia Hafsa. In 1997 he was appointed as Chairman of Ruet-e-Hilal committee till his assassination 1998. He had good relations with other sects and non-Muslims. His biographer, Riaz Mansoor, states He was considered to be a patriotic and had good ties with the military and many politicians He was very close with Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq.\n\nDuring the Soviet war in Afghanistan (1979–1989), the Red Mosque played a major role in recruiting and training Mujahideen to fight alongside the Afghan Mujahideen against Soviet troops. A few months before his assassination,\nIn 1998, Moulana Abdullah with Moulana Zahoor Ahmad Alwi, Qari Saeed-ur-Rehman and some other scholars, toured Afghanistan. Maulana took his rebellious son (Abdul Rashid Ghazi) specially with him. This delegation met Mullah Omar ,Osama Bin Laden. and Dr Ayman Al Zawahiri\n\nHis biographer, Riaz Mansoor, states That Maulana had a routine every day whereby he would walk to a seminary for giving lectures (7 km away from the Red-Mosque). On the day of his assassination he walked to his Madrassa Jamia Ul Ulom al Islamia al Faridia Also Known As The Al Faridia University and returned by car at noon. As he got out of the car, his elder son Maulana Maulana Abdul Aziz Ghazi approached him and spoke to him. When Moulana approached his house, a man standing in front of the door walked towards him and pulled out a gun and opened fire until the magazine was empty, badly injuring Moulana. Afterwards, he fired at Abdul-aziz, who barely escaped death. The assassin escaped with the help of an accomplice waiting outside in a car. Moulana Abdullah died of his injuries on the way to the hospital.\n\nDue to lack of trust in Pakistan's legal system, his elder son refused to lodged FIR, but his younger son, Abdul Rashid Ghazi lodged the FIR and the police investigated the case. After a relentless effort, a man was arrested and afterwards, during the ID parade, an eye witness identified the assassin. However, he was released the next day without reason. Abdul Rashid Ghazi protested against the release and warned the police of legal action if the suspect was not arrested soon. With Ghazi increasing pressure on police, a military officer asked Ghazi to withdraw the case or face the fate of his father.According to his friend, this was turning point in Ghazi's life, and he became disillusioned him with system.\n\nIn 2005, A Biography Was Released Detailing Maulana's Life Under The Name Hayat Shaheed E Islam By Riaz Munsoor\n\n"}
{"id": "2062592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062592", "title": "Musée Chappuis-Fähndrich", "text": "Musée Chappuis-Fähndrich\n\nThe Musée Chappuis-Fähndrich, located in Develier, Canton of Jura, Switzerland, houses a large collection of objects from everyday life in the region during the period 1650 to 1950.\n\nThe collection, assembled by Marc Chappuis and his wife, and housed in a barn, consists of housewares, farm tools, devotional items, and other objects used in farm life, local crafts, and religious worship over a period of three hundred years. There are cast iron skillets, ceramic pots, wooden toys, and leather harnesses, many of them purchases from local second hand shops or gifts of nearby farmers.\n\nThe museum is private and open by appointment only.\n\n"}
{"id": "24131016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24131016", "title": "Nouveau poor", "text": "Nouveau poor\n\n\"Nouveau pauvre\" (\"new poor\"), refers to a person who had once owned considerable wealth, but has now lost all or most of it. This term is generally used to emphasize that the individual was previously part of a higher socioeconomic rank, and that such wealth that provided the means for the acquisition of goods or luxuries is currently unobtainable. These people may or may not actually be poor, but compared to their previous rank, it seems as if they are.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36060144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36060144", "title": "Panni (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Panni (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe term \"Balailzai (Panni)\" refers to a Pashtun tribe in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Another name for the tribe of Panni is Balailzai. Like other Pashtuns, they have Eastern Iranian genetic and ethnolinguistic heritage. They descended from Gharghasht, one of Qais Abdur Rashīd's sons. Most are settled in parts of Pakistan or Afghanistan, such as Karachi, Quetta, Musakhail, Dera Ismail Khan, Mardan, Peshawar, Panian, Haripur, Kabul, Tank, Kohat, while there are some communities in the United States, United Kingdom, and other Western countries. They were, at one point in time, were holding main posts in the Government especially during the rule of Bahlol Lodhi. After his reign ended, they scattered and migrated to various parts of the Indian subcontinent and the Middle East. Panni's are migrated to South India . Panni are Nawab of Kurnool and Nawab of the Carnatic which rule in Mughal Empire. Most of the Panni's are settled in Pakistan.\n\nPanni Naghar, Devi and Babai were real brothers. All tribes are present in Baluchistan(Pakistan) and Afghanistan. The Balailzai tribe were camel and horse breeders entered in India with Bahlol Lodi's army and remained in glory as long as Lodi ruled . That's why the population of Lodi, Naghar and Balailzai is less as compared to other Pashtun tribes in Baluchistan and Afghanistan. When Lodi was defeated by Mughals, the Balailzai started selling horses/camels. Later on they settled in different places of India, like Karachi, Quetta, Musakhail, Dera Ismail Khan, Mardan, Peshawar, Panian, Kabul, Tank, Kohat, Khanozai, Ziarat Rode Malazai, Gulistan, Ajram, Kandahar, Harnai, Kohlu, Sibi, Sindh and Panjab Gurani in District Rothak, Rajestan and Hyderabad. Their mother tongue is Pashtu. Balailzai are living in village name Kohi near Musakhail bazaar, in Wazirstan, Pakistan while Afghanistan majority of migratory Afghan tribes are known as Kochi. The chief of Panni Pashtuns are Barozai living in Sibi and Musakhail. \n\nThose who belong to or hail from the Panni tribe are settled in Panian, Karachi, Quetta, Musakhail,Mandokhail Dera Ismail Khan, Mardan, Peshawar, Kabul, Tank, Kohat. Panni's are also known as Pannai, Pani, Balailzai and Panezai. The Panezai is the biggest clan among Snatia, who live in Khanozai, Ziarat Rode Malazai, Gulistan, Ajram, Kandahar, Harnai and Quetta. The Tareen historically are the second largest tribe in Baluchistan. \n\nPashtun tribes, are divided into four supertribal confederacies: the Arbanee (Sarabani), Betanee (Baitani), Ghrghashta, and Karlanee (Krai, Kerlani). Balailzai come under the Gharghasht tribe.Now a day Barozai Tribe is calling himself as chief of panni , they actually based from sangan village and displaced and migrated to Sibi. \n\n"}
{"id": "76393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76393", "title": "Participatory economics", "text": "Participatory economics\n\nParticipatory economics, often abbreviated parecon, is an economic system based on participatory decision making as the primary economic mechanism for allocation in society. In the system the say in decision-making is proportional to the impact on a person or group of people. Participatory economics is a form of decentralized economic planning and socialism involving the common ownership of the means of production. It is a proposed alternative to contemporary capitalism and centralized planning. This economic model is primarily associated with political theorist Michael Albert and economist Robin Hahnel, who describe participatory economics as an anarchist economic vision.\n\nThe underlying values that parecon seeks to implement are equity, solidarity, diversity, workers' self-management and efficiency (defined as accomplishing goals without wasting valued assets). The institutions of parecon include workers' and consumers' councils utilizing self-managerial methods for making decisions, balanced job complexes, remuneration based on individual effort, and participatory planning.\n\nA primary proposition of parecon is that everyone should have a say in decisions proportionate to the degree to which they are affected by them. This principle is often referred to as \"self-management\". In parecon, it constitutes a replacement for the mainstream economic conception of economic freedom, which Albert and Hahnel argue by its very vagueness has allowed it to be abused by capitalist ideologues.\n\nA main goal of socialism is to create a society without classes or hierarchy, and traditional socialist thinking identifies classes based on ownership of the means of production (in capitalism, those are the capitalist class and the proletarian class). However, Albert and Hahnel identify a third class created by the particular division of labor. Some tasks and jobs are more desirable than others; also some are more empowering. Hahnel and Albert argue that empowering jobs, such as accounting or management, provide access to information and skills to formulate ideas and plans for decision making, while other jobs, such as cleaning, do not provide these. Thus workers with disempowering jobs can at best ratify proposals by empowered workers, and have little reason to participate in collective decision making. Workers with empowering jobs are a third class, \"coordinator class\" that does not own the means of production but has more power than menial workers. This class exists in current and past capitalist, socialist and cooperative economies. Coordinator jobs include political office, management, law, medicine, accounting, research.\n\nTo distribute work equitably and empower all workers in decisions in their workplace, in participatory economics each worker does tasks, which, taken together, result in an average desirability and average empowerment among all workers.\n\nAlbert and Hahnel argue that it is inequitable and ineffective to compensate people on the basis of luck (e.g. skills or talents that owe to their birth or heredity), or by virtue of workers' productivity (as measured by the \"value\" of the goods they produce). Therefore, the primary principle of participatory economics is to reward workers for their effort and sacrifice. For example, mining work—which is dangerous and uncomfortable—would be more highly paid than office work for the same amount of time, thus allowing the miner to work fewer hours for the same pay, and the burden of highly dangerous and strenuous jobs to be shared among the populace.\n\nAdditionally, participatory economics would provide exemptions from the compensation for effort principle. People with disabilities who are unable to work, children, the elderly, the infirm and workers who are legitimately in transitional circumstances, can be remunerated according to need. However, every \"able\" adult has the obligation to perform some socially useful work as a requirement for receiving reward. However, everyone would be entitled to free health care, education, skills training, and the freedom to choose between various democratically structured workplaces with balanced jobs balanced for desirability and empowerment.\n\nThe starting point for the income of all workers in a participatory economy is an equal share of the social product. From this point, incomes for personal expenditures and consumption rights for public goods can be expected to diverge by small degrees, reflecting the choices that individuals make in between work and leisure time, and the level of danger and difficulty of a job as judged by their immediate workplace peers.\n\nThe archetypal workplace democracy model, the Wobbly Shop was pioneered by the Industrial Workers of the World, in which the self-managing norms of grassroots democracy were applied.\n\nWhile many types of production and consumption may become more localised under participatory economics, the model does not exclude economies of scale.\n\nHahnel has also written a detailed discussion of parecon's desirability compared to capitalism with respect to incentives to innovate. In capitalism, patent laws, intellectual property rights and barriers to market entry are institutional features that reward individual innovators while limiting the use of new technologies. Hahnel notes that, in contrast, \"in a participatory economy all innovations will immediately be made available to all enterprises, so there will never be any loss of static efficiency.\". Innovation is sometimes the outcome of cumulative creativity, which pareconomists believe may not be legitimately attributed to individuals.\n\nParticipatory planning is the allocation mechanism in a participatory economy, and is meant to provide a workable alternative to market competition and centralized planning. The planning procedure is conceived as an iterative process in which, (1) production proposals made by workers councils and (2) consumption proposals made by individuals and their neighborhood councils, are submitted and revised through multiple rounds of pricing updates until the process converges on a feasible plan for the upcoming year.\n\nThe process begins when the facilitation board (see below) announces a list of indicative prices for each final consumer good, as well as for each capital good, natural resource, and category of labor that is available to society. These indicative prices are calculated to reflect the estimated opportunity costs for producing various goods and services, and incorporate both social costs and pollution impacts. In response to this list of prices, individuals draft an annual consumption plan for goods/services they wish to consume in the coming year, and also meet in their neighborhood councils to deliberate and democratically arrive at a plan for the consumption of public goods (e.g. obtaining resources to build a public playground). As workers, individuals also meet in their workplaces to determine what outputs they will produce and what inputs they will consume in the production process, as well as how much they would each like to work. Thus, workers and consumers (as well as any federations of workers or consumers) submit their initial requests to the facilitation board, which aggregates this information.\n\nBecause the conclusion of the first round of this process will almost certainly not be a workable plan, the facilitation board proceeds to update the list of indicative prices for each good up or down, in proportion to the excess demand and supply for each, so that the updated prices reflect a more accurate estimate of the social opportunity costs of each item. The announcement of updated indicative prices then initiates the second round of the planning process, in which consumers and workers revise and resubmit their proposals in light of the new information. In particular, consumption proposals in which the individual's proposed effort rating does not warrant the proposed level of consumption will need to be adjusted, so that the individual will either have to reduce his/her consumption requests, shift them to less costly products, or increase his/her projected work-hours for the coming year. Other consumers may discover that their initial proposals were too modest, and can revise their consumption upwards, if they choose, or they can revise their projected effort rating downwards by proposing to work fewer hours and increasing leisure time.\n\nProduction proposals are also summarized and evaluated on a quantitative basis, in this case by the ratio of social benefits to social costs. (The social benefit part of the ratio is calculated by multiplying the proposed quantity of outputs from a workplace by their indicative prices, adding negative prices for any proposed pollution emissions and summing. The social costs are calculated by multiplying the quantity of requested inputs by their indicative prices and summing.) Proposals with a benefits-to-cost ratio below one will need to make adjustments in order to gain approval in the next round, either by switching to a less polluting technology, producing a more socially desirable set of outputs, or using less costly inputs.\n\nAfter receiving the revised proposals, the facilitation board once again updates the list of indicative prices. After several rounds of this revision and re-submission process, the result is convergence to a feasible plan in which workers and consumers are able to accomplish the activities that they detailed in their final submissions. Even after a feasible plan is achieved, flexible mid-year revisions of consumer/worker proposals can also be incorporated into the planning process.\n\nIn academic work, Albert and Hahnel (1991) prove that participatory planning arrives at a Pareto optimum, and does so under less restrictive assumptions than markets; that is, participatory planning is Pareto optimal even though it incorporates both public goods and externalities, whereas markets do not achieve Pareto optimality with these two assumptions).\n\nA feature of participatory planning which differs from other modes of democratic planning is that all deliberation on proposals occurs within councils, but does not take place between councils. That is, under parecon, a feasible economic plan is constructed due to an iterative adjustment of prices (participatory planning) based on councils' self-activity proposals, rather than owing to a procedure of deliberation among delegates across workplaces/industries. This is potentially desirable by cutting down on the meeting time and bureaucratic burdens needed to converge on an annual plan.\n\nIn a proposed participatory economy, key information relevant to converging on an economic plan would be made available by Iteration Facilitation Boards (IFBs), which, based on proposals from worker/consumer councils and economic data, present indicative prices and economic projections at each round of the planning process.\n\nThe IFB has no decision-making authority. In theory, the IFB's activity can consist mainly of computers performing the (agreed upon) algorithms for adjusting prices and forecasts, with little human involvement.\n\nRobin Hahnel has argued that \"participatory planning is not central planning\", stating \"The procedures are completely different and the incentives are completely different. And one of the important ways in which it is different from central planning is that it is incentive compatible, that is, actors have an incentive to report truthfully rather than an incentive to misrepresent their capabilities or preferences.\" Unlike historical examples of central planning, the parecon proposal advocates the use and adjustment of price information reflecting marginal social opportunity costs and benefits as integral elements of the planning process. Hahnel has argued emphatically against Milton Friedman's a priori tendency to deny the possibility of alternatives:\n\nFriedman assumes away the best solution for coordinating economic activities. He simply asserts \"there are only two ways of coordinating the economic activities of millions—central direction involving the use of coercion—and voluntary cooperation, the technique of the marketplace.\" [...] a participatory economy can permit all to partake in economic decision making in proportion to the degree they are affected by outcomes. Since a participatory system uses a system of participatory planning instead of markets to coordinate economic activities, Friedman would have us believe that participatory planning must fall into the category of \"central direction involving the use of coercion.\"\n\nAlbert and Hahnel have voiced detailed critiques of centrally-planned economies in theory and practice, but are also highly-critical of capitalism. Hahnel claims \"the truth is capitalism aggravates prejudice, is the most inequitable economy ever devised, is grossly inefficient—even if highly energetic—and is incompatible with both economic and political democracy. In the present era of free-market triumphalism it is useful to organize a sober evaluation of capitalism responding to Friedman's claims one by one.\"\n\nMainstream economists largely acknowledge the problem of externalities but believe they can be addressed either through Coasian bargaining or the use of Pigovian taxes—extra taxes on goods that have externalities. According to economic theory, if Pigovian taxes are set so that the after-tax cost of the goods is equal to the social cost of the goods, the direct cost of production plus cost of externalities, then quantities produced will tend toward a socially optimal level. Hahnel observes, \"more and more economists outside the mainstream are challenging this assumption, and a growing number of skeptics now dare to suggest that externalities are prevalent, and often substantial\". Or, as E.K. Hunt put it: externalities are the rule rather than the exception, and therefore markets often work as if they were guided by a \"malevolent invisible foot\" that keeps kicking us to produce more of some things, and less of others than is socially efficient.\"\n\nAs long as a market economy is in place, Albert and Hahnel favour Pigovian taxes over other solutions to environmental problems such as command and control, or the issuance of marketable permits. However, Hahnel, who teaches ecological economics at American University, argues that in a market economy businesses try to avoid the \"polluter pays principle\" by shifting the burden of the costs for their polluting activities to consumers. In terms of incentives he argues this might be considered a positive development because it would penalize consumers for \"dirty\" consumption. However it also has regressive implications since tax incidence studies show that ultimately it would be poor people who would bear a great deal of the burden of many pollution taxes. \"In other words, many pollution taxes would be highly regressive and therefore aggravate economic injustice.\" He therefore recommends that pollution taxes be linked to cuts in regressive taxes such as social security taxes.\n\nHahnel argues that Pigovian taxes, along with associated corrective measures advanced by market economists, ultimately fall far short of adequately or fairly addressing externalities. He argues such methods are incapable of attaining accurate assessments of social costs:\n\nMarkets corrected by pollution taxes only lead to the efficient amount of pollution and satisfy the polluter pays principle if the taxes are set equal to the magnitude of the damage victims suffer. But because markets are not incentive compatible for polluters and pollution victims, markets provide no reliable way to estimate the magnitudes of efficient taxes for pollutants. Ambiguity over who has the property right, polluters or pollution victims, free rider problems among multiple victims, and the transaction costs of forming and maintaining an effective coalition of pollution victims, each of whom is affected to a small but unequal degree, all combine to render market systems incapable of eliciting accurate information from pollution victims about the damages they suffer, or acting upon that information even if it were known.\n\nAdvocates of parecon say the intention is that the four main ingredients of parecon be implemented with a minimum of hierarchy and a maximum of transparency in all discussions and decision-making. This model is designed to eliminate secrecy in economic decision-making, and instead encourage friendly cooperation and mutual support. This avoidance of power hierarchies puts parecon in the libertarian socialist political tradition. Stephen Shalom has produced a political system meant to complement parecon, called parpolity.\n\nAlthough parecon falls under left-wing political tradition, it is designed to avoid the creation of powerful intellectual elites or the rule of a bureaucracy, which is perceived as the major problem of the economies of the communist states of the 20th century. In their book \"Looking Forward\" Albert and Hanhel termed this situation 'coordinatorism'. Parecon advocates recognize that monopolization of empowering labor, in addition to private ownership, can be a source of class division. Thus, a three-class view of the economy (capitalists, coordinators, and workers) is stressed, in contrast to the traditional two-class view of Marxism. The coordinator class, emphasized in parecon, refers to those who have a monopoly on empowering skills and knowledge, and corresponds to the doctors, lawyers, managers, engineers, and other professionals in present economies. Parecon advocates argue that, historically, Marxism ignored the ability of coordinators to become a new ruling class in a post-capitalist society.\n\nParticipatory economics is not in itself intended to provide a general political system, clearly its practical implementation would depend on an accompanying political system.\n\nAlbert and Hahnel stress that parecon is only meant to address an alternative economic theory and must be accompanied by equally important alternative visions in the fields of politics, culture and kinship. The authors have also discussed elements of anarchism in the field of politics, polyculturalism in the field of culture, and feminism in the field of family and gender relations as being possible foundations for future alternative visions in these other spheres of society. Stephen R. Shalom has begun work on a participatory political vision he calls \"par polity\". Both systems together make up the political philosophy of Participism.\n\nDavid Schweickart suggests participatory economics would be undesirable even if it was possible, accusing it of being: \n\na system obsessed with comparison (Is your job complex more empowering than mine?), with monitoring (You are not working at average intensity, mate—get with the program), with the details of consumption (How many rolls of toilet paper will I need next year? Why are some of my neighbors still using the kind not made of recycled paper?)\n\nParticipatory economics would create a large amount of administrative work for individual workers, who would have to plan their consumption in advance, and a new bureaucratic class. Proponents of parecon argue that capitalist economies are hardly free of bureaucracy or meetings, and a parecon would eliminate banks, advertising, stock market, tax returns and long-term financial planning. Albert and Hahnel claim that it is probable that a similar number of workers will be involved in a parecon bureaucracy as in a capitalist bureaucracy, with much of the voting achieved by computer rather than meeting, and those who are not interested in the collective consumption proposals not required to attend.\n\nCritics suggest that proposals require consideration of an unfeasibly large set of policy choices, and that lessons from planned societies show that peoples' daily needs cannot be established well in advance simply by asking people what they want. Albert and Hahnel note that markets themselves hardly adjust prices instantaneously, and suggest that in a participatory economy facilitation boards could modify prices on a regular basis. According to Hahnel these act according to democratically decided guidelines, can be composed of members from other regions and are impossible to bribe due to parecon's non-transferable currency. However, Takis Fotopoulos argues that \"no kind of economic organisation based on planning alone, however democratic and decentralised it is, can secure real self-management and freedom of choice.\"\n\nParecon might reduce efficiency in the workplace. For one, expert and exceptional workers (e.g. exceptional surgeons and scientists) would not be performing their tasks full-time. Participatory economics would expect them to share in \"disempowering work\" and would not offer opportunities to seek additional compensation for their high ability or finding solutions to problems. In a lecture at Willamette University in Oregon in 2015, Hahnel responded to this criticism by explaining that these jobs could be filled by machines, which are underutilized in capitalist economic systems due to the lowered rates of profit, and also division of labor wouldn't exist under a participatory economic system as much as it does under capitalism, so people wouldn't always have the same jobs.\n\nTheodore Burczak argues that it is impossible for workers to give the unbiased assessments of the \"largely unobservable\" characteristics of effort proposed as the basis for salary levels, and the absence of market exchange mechanisms likewise makes calculating social costs of production and consumption impossible.\n\nIn 2012, the International Organization for a Participatory Society was founded advocating for a participatory society including participatory economics, also referred to as participism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11960442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11960442", "title": "Peak coal", "text": "Peak coal\n\nThe term Peak coal is used to refer to the point in time at which coal production and consumption reaches its maximum, after which, it is assumed, production and consumption will decline steadily. The term was originally used in connection with M. King Hubbert's Hubbert peak theory, in which the finite nature of the resource determines a constraint on production. However, since the expansion of renewable energy particularly in electricity generation, the term is now commonly used with reference to a peak in coal demand, which may already have occurred.\n\nAccording to M. King Hubbert's Hubbert peak theory, peak coal is the point in time at which the maximum global coal production rate is reached, after which, according to the theory, the rate of production will enter a terminal decline. Coal is a fossil fuel formed from plant matter over the course of millions of years. It is a finite resource and thus considered to be a non-renewable energy source.\n\nThere are two different possible peaks: one measured by mass (i.e. metric tons) and another by energy output (i.e. petajoules). The world average heat content per mass of mined coal rose from 8,020 BTU/lb. in 1989 to 9,060 BTU/lb. in 1999. Since 1999, the world average heat content of mined coal has been fairly steady, and was 9,030 BTU/lb. in 2011.\n\nThe estimates for global peak coal extraction vary wildly. Many coal associations suggest the peak could occur in 200 years or more, while scholarly estimates predict the peak to occur as soon as the immediate future. Research in 2009 by the University of Newcastle in Australia concluded that global coal extraction could peak sometime between the present and 2048. A 2007 study by the German Energy Watch Group predicted that global peak coal extraction may occur sometime around 2025 at 30 percent above the 2005 rate.\n\nThe contemporary concept of peak coal follows from Hubbert peak theory, which is most commonly associated with peak oil. Hubbert concluded that each oil region and nation has a bell-shaped depletion curve. However, this question was originally raised by William Stanley Jevons in his book The Coal Question in 1865.\n\nHubbert noted that United States coal extraction grew exponentially at a steady 6.6% per year from 1850 to 1910. Then the growth leveled off. He concluded that no finite resource could sustain exponential growth. At some point, the rate of extraction will have to peak and then decline until the resource is exhausted. He theorized that extraction rate plotted versus time would show a bell-shaped curve, declining as rapidly as it had risen. Hubbert used his observation of the US coal extraction to predict the behavior of peak oil.\n\nThe Hubbert linearization using yearly production rates has weaknesses for peak coal calculation, as the signal-to-noise ratio is inferior with coal mining data compared to oil extraction. As a consequence, Rutledge uses cumulative production for linearization. By this method the estimated ultimate recovery results in a stable fit for active coal regions. The ultimate production for world coal is estimated to be 680 Gt, of which 309 Gt have already been produced.\nHowever, in 2013 the World Coal Association reported that two different estimates of coal reserves remaining were 1038 and 861 Gt.\n\nAlthough reserves of coal remain abundant, consumption of coal has declined in many countries. In 2016 Scotland closed its last coal-fired power plant. This decline has resulted from the replacement of coal-fired electricity by gas and renewable energy, along with the decline of the steel industry in some countries. As a result, the term \"peak coal\" is now used primarily to refer to a peak and subsequent decline in global and national coal consumption. In 2016 experts estimated that China, the world's largest coal consumer, reached peak coal in 2013, and that the world may have passed peak coal. However, in 2017, for the first time in four years, demand for coal rose.\n\nAs of 2015, China accounted for 50.0 percent of world coal consumption. Chinese coal consumption fell in 2014 and 2015. The last previous decline in Chinese coal consumption had been in 1997 and 1998. While consumption in China and the United States declined in 2015, that of India continued to rise and, in 2015, India surpassed the United States and became the world's second-largest consumer of coal.\n\nAs of 2011, the top coal-extracting countries were China (46% of world extraction), United States (13%), India (7.8%), Australia (5.4%), and Indonesia (4.9%). Four out of five of these largest coal-extracting countries, the exception being the United States, had experienced significant increases in coal extraction over the previous decade.\n\nThe People's Republic of China is the world’s largest coal extractor and has the third largest reserves after Russia and the United States. The Energy Watch Group predicted that the Chinese extraction will peak around 2015 in their 2007 report, and then revised that to 2020 in their March 2013 report. The EWG also predicts that the recent steep rise in extraction will be followed by a steep decline after 2020. Another study puts the peak at 2027. The US Energy Information Administration projects that China coal extraction will continue to rise until 2030.\n\nAlthough Hubbert's analysis in 1956 projected total extraction to peak in about 2150, records show that extraction reached an energy peak in 1998 and a tonnage peak in 2008.\n\nUS coal extraction peaked during World War I, then declined sharply during the depression years of the 1930s. Coal extraction peaked again in the 1940s, then declined during the 1950s. Then coal extraction revived, and was on a nearly continual increasing trend from 1962 to 2008, exceeding the previous peaks. Extraction in 2008 was a record 1.17 billion short tons. High-BTU anthracite coal peaked in 1914; and declined from 44 million tons in 1950 to 1.6 million tons in 2007. Bituminous coal extraction has also been declining since 1990. The gap has been taken up by large increases in subbituminous coal extraction. Comprehensive analysis of historical trends in US coal extraction and reserve estimates, along with a possible future outlook, was published in scientific journals on coal geology in 2009.\n\nIn 1956, Hubbert estimated that US coal extraction would peak in about the year 2150. In 2004, Gregson Vaux used the Hubbert model to predict peak US coal extraction in 2032. In 2014, a model published in the \"International Journal of Coal Geology\" forecast a U.S. raw tonnage peak from between 2009 and 2023, with the most likely year of the peak in 2010.\n\nOver the years, the average energy content per ton of coal mined in the US has declined as mining shifts to coals of lower rank. Although the tonnage of coal mined in the United States reached its latest peak in 2008, the peak in terms of coal energy content occurred in 1998, at 598 Millions of metric tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe); by 2005 this had fallen to 576 Mtoe, or about 4% lower.\n\nAustralia has substantial coal resources, mostly brown coal. It is responsible for almost 40% of global coal exports worldwide, and much of its current electricity is generated from coal-fired power stations. There are tentative plans to very slowly phase out coal electricity generation in favor of gas, although these plans are still a topic of much debate in Australian politics.\n\nLong-term plans for coal in Australia include large-scale export of brown coal to large developing nations such as China and India. Other groups such as the Australian Greens, suggest that coal be left in the ground to avoid its potential combustion either in Australia or in importer nations.\n\nResearch in 2009 by the University of Newcastle in Australia concluded that Australian coal extraction could peak sometime after 2050. While the Australian Coal Association (ACA) optimistically estimates that Australia's identified black coal resources could last more than 200 years based on rate of extraction in 2007. This does not account for brown coal stocks.\n\nAccording to calculations conducted for the Hunter Community Environment Centre in Newcastle, the Australian state of New South Wales 10,600 million tonnes of coal reserves would be exhausted by 2042, based on current industry growth and extraction rates of about 3.2 per cent a year.\n\nCoal output peaked in 1913 in Britain at 287 Mt and now accounts for less than one percent of world coal extraction. 2007 extraction was around 15 Mt.\n\nAccording to the Earth Watch Group, Canadian coal extraction peaked in 1997.\n\nGermany hit peak hard coal extraction in 1958 at 150 million tons. In 2005 hard coal extraction was around 25 million tons.\nTotal coal extraction peaked in 1985 at 578 million short tons, declined sharply in the early 1990s following German reunification, and has been nearly steady since 1999. Total coal extraction in 2005 was 229 million short tons, four percent of total world extraction.\n\nIn 2010, Tadeusz Patzek (chairman of the Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering at the University of Texas at Austin) and Greg Croft, predicted that coal production would peak in 2011 or shortly thereafter, and decline so quickly as to nearly eliminate the contribution of coal to climate change. Patzek said: \"Our ability to produce this resource at 8 billion tons per year, in my mind, is a dream,\" However, world coal production exceeded 8 billion tons per year in 2012 (8.2 billion), 2013 (8.19 billion), and 2014 (8.085 billion).\n\nM. King Hubbert's 1956 projections from the world extraction curve estimated that world coal production would peak at approximately six billion metric tons per year at about the year 2150.\n\n\"Coal: Resources and Future Production\", published on 5 April 2007 by the Energy Watch Group (EWG) found that global coal extraction could peak in as few as 15 years. However, the graphs in their 2013 report show a peak in 2020. Reporting on this, Richard Heinberg also notes that the date of peak annual energetic extraction from coal will likely come earlier than the date of peak in quantity of coal (tons per year) extracted as the most energy-dense types of coal have been mined most extensively.\n\n\"The Future of Coal\" by B. Kavalov and S. D. Peteves of the Institute for Energy (IFE), prepared for European Commission Joint Research Centre, reached conclusions similar to those of Energy Watch Group, and stated that \"coal might not be so abundant, widely available and reliable as an energy source in the future\". Kavalov and Peteves did not attempt to forecast a peak in extraction.\nThe US Energy Information Administration projects world coal consumption to increase through 2035.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12785668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12785668", "title": "Pensions in Chile", "text": "Pensions in Chile\n\nThe Chile Pension system (Spanish: \"Sistema Previsional\") refers to old-age, disability and survivor pensions for workers in Chile. The pension system was changed by José Piñera, during Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, on November 4, 1980 from a PAYGO-system to a fully funded capitalization system run by private sector pension funds. Many critics and supporters see the reform as an important experiment under real conditions, that may give conclusions about the impact of the full conversion of a PAYGO-system to a capital funded system. The development was therefore internationally observed with great interest. Under Michelle Bachelet's government the Chile Pension system was reformed again.\n\nA social security system was introduced in Chile in the 1920s, which included a PAYGO pension system. By 1973 the funding of the pension fund was low, though 73% of all Chilean workers paid into the system. The reason for this was that almost all workers contributed only the statutory minimum contribution, and many successfully evaded pension contributions. The poor payment record is attributed primarily to the fact that individual contributions had little correlation with anticipated pension benefits.\n\nOn November 4, 1980, under the leadership of José Piñera, Secretary of Labor and Pensions under Augusto Pinochet with the collaboration of his team of Chicago Boys, the PAYGO pension system was changed to a capital funded system run by investment funds. José Piñera had the idea of privatizing the pension system for the first time when reading the book Capitalism and Freedom from Milton Friedman There have been implemented several (private) pension funds the so-called \"Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones\" (AFPs). For all citizens who are legally defined as workers, employers must pay a proportion of the earnings to a pension fund. Workers who had already paid in the old system, got an option to continue to pay into the old system. But the statutory minimum contribution to the new private pension funds was set 11% lower than the contributions to the old pension system, therefore most workers changed to the new pension system.\n\nChilean military that implemented the new AFP system excluded themselves from it keeping obtaining their pensions from the Caja de Previsión de la Defensa Nacional. The pensions of the military are substantially higher than those of the rest of Chileans, being most often similar to the income they have during active service. However, differently from what a regular, society-wide, PAYGO system would operate, military pensions go to a small section of the population and are financed by all of the taxpayers in the country.\n\nThe Chilean workers yearly contributions in the private pension fund are amounting to about 3.5% of gross domestic product. The pension payments from the pension funds are still relatively low, mainly because yet just a few depositors have reached the retirement age. Until 2008 the private pension funds have accumulated capital of an amount of 52.77% of gross domestic product.\n\nThe establishment and the operation of the private pension funds are regulated by law. For example any pension fund must deposit minimum reserves. The types of investments that are permitted are defined by law. The compliance of the private pension funds are supervised by a government regulator, the \"Superintendencia de AFP,\" now called \"Superintendencia de Pensiones\".\n\nThere are government guarantees for the following cases:\n\nThe government pays a fixed amount as social assistance for those citizens who are not even entitled to minimum pension, the \"Pensiones Asistenciales\" (PASIS). But the provided amount of money is usually not nearly big enough to cover all people in need. \n\nBecause of the conversion from the PAYGO to the funded system until the year 2045 there will arise conversion costs. Because the contributions are made almost entirely in the new system, there are almost no more payments into the old system. The difference between the remaining contributions and the pensions that have to be paid out have to be financed by the Chilean government. These conversion costs are a big burden for the government budget:\nAll workers and employees must pay into the system. Mandatory contributions amount to 10% of the monthly income, the part of the monthly income that exceeds $2,800 U.S. (60 UF) is non-contributory. Self-employed individuals may contribute voluntarily, and salaried workers can also enhance their pension through additional voluntary contributions. The Chilean armed forces and police do not contribute in the workers pension system but participate in a separate PAYGO system.\n\nThe pension contributions are income tax deductible. The worker can choose one of six private pension administrators and change at will and also choose from among five funds (A to E, with A being the riskiest).\n\nThe pension funds are privately administered. The amount of administrative costs are not regulated by law. But there is two years obligation for a new affiliated to be included in a single found, selected by public bidding, based in the level of administrative costs. The user contribute to his pension with a contribution of 10% of income. In addition, the user pays administrative costs in the order of 1% of income. The user don´t pay any cost while unemployed.\n\nThe performance of the Chilean pension funds is not very good compared with the performance of private pension funds of developed countries, but that performance is partly attributed to special factors.. The amount of administrative costs is considered a problem of the Chilean pension system.\n\nIn addition to or instead of the regular private pension workers may be entitled to state aid:\n\nRetired workers whose private pensions are below a defined level are entitled to minimum pension \"(Garantía de Pensión Mínima).\" In this case, the government pays an additional pension.\n\nPeople who have paid in nothing or contributed less than 20 years may get social assistance, the \"Pensiones Asistenciales (PASIS)\". But the Pensiones Asistenciales are paid from a fixed budget that is usually not big enough to cover everyone in need.\n\nThe number of workers who actually pay into the pension system decreased from 64% in 1980 (before the reform) to 58% by 2006 According to Patricio Navia an Diego Portales University professor, most people perceive the costs of pensions and the pensions themselves as unfair. Therefore they try to evade pension contributions.\n\nAndras Uthoff, the director of the \"Social Development Division\" of the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLAC) states that the reformed Chilean pension system does not work with the reformed Chilean labor market because only a small percentage of workers are able to finance meaningful pensions.\n\nAccording to the projection of Berstein, Larrain and Pino Rios from the year 2005 (based on data from the period 1981 - 2003) the kind of pensions to expect are predicted as following:\n\nSebastián Piñera, the brother of José Piñera and later president of Chile, said during the presidential candidacy in 2006:\n\nUnder the Bachelet government, the pension system was reformed again in the year 2008. Andrés Velasco, the leading economic adviser to the government, addressed the two main problems as the coverage of the population and the amount of the administrative costs. Too many people are outside the pension system, and capital accumulation by using the pension funds is quite expensive The reform follows a recommendation by the World Bank, who has found in the 1980 pension system a strong redistributive component at the expense of low paid or occasionally unemployed workers. A big part of the Chilean population is not able to finance meaningful pensions, because many workers are not able to regularly contribute a higher amount of money. Additionally many workers have difficulties to achieve the 20 years of contributions to at least qualify for minimum pension. Since the pension funds charge high fixed administrative costs per insured person and only a small portion of the administrative costs depend on the amount of the capital account, capital accumulation by pension funds is very unprofitable for workers with lower incomes. The World Bank therefore recommended that the minimum pension and the Pensiones Asistenciales should be abolished and instead introduced a public risk pooling device financed by VAT tax revenue.\n\nThe reform includes mainly the following points:\n\n\n\n\"Supporting pension reform:\"\n\"Critical of pension reform:\"\n"}
{"id": "23443310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23443310", "title": "Polygamy in Burundi", "text": "Polygamy in Burundi\n\nPolygamy is illegal in Burundi and the nation does not recognize polygamous marriages under civil law or customary law. A 1993 amendment to the Code of Person and Family officially abolished polygamy in the country. Even still, the practice is still present in Burundi and has reportedly increased rather than decreased, mainly due to recent conflicts and crises.\n"}
{"id": "25793849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25793849", "title": "Public holidays in Oman", "text": "Public holidays in Oman\n\nThe following is a list of public holidays in Oman.\n"}
{"id": "21098470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21098470", "title": "SOPHIA (European Foundation for the Advancement of Doing Philosophy with Children)", "text": "SOPHIA (European Foundation for the Advancement of Doing Philosophy with Children)\n\nSOPHIA is a European Foundation for the Advancement of Doing Philosophy with Children. It is an open European cooperative organization for educators and philosophers working with the subject of philosophy with children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1355850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1355850", "title": "Stasov", "text": "Stasov\n\nStasov (sometimes spelt Stassov; ) is a quintessential family of Russian intelligentsia. It included \n\n"}
{"id": "1446512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1446512", "title": "Teen Challenge", "text": "Teen Challenge\n\nTeen Challenge (now named \"Adult & Teen Challenge\") is a worldwide network of Christian faith-based corporations intended to help teenagers, adults, and families with problems such as substance abuse or self-destructive behavior. It was founded by David Wilkerson in 1960. U.S. headquarters are located in Ozark, Missouri. It has over 1,000 centers worldwide.\n\nThe ministry that would later become Teen Challenge (and in 2017 changed to \"Adult & Teen Challenge\") was founded in 1960 by David Wilkerson, an Assemblies of God pastor who left a rural Pennsylvania church to work on the street among teenage gang members and socially marginalized people in New York City and who, perhaps, is best known for later authoring The Cross and the Switchblade and founding Times Square Church. Teen Challenge started its first residential program in December 1960, in a house of Brooklyn.\n\nIn 1973, 15 years after the ministry began, Teen Challenge established a national headquarters.\n\nIn 1995, Global Teen Challenge was founded to assist the growing number of Teen Challenges starting up outside the US, but struggling to acquire the necessary resources and training.\n\nIn 2017, the organization officially changed its name to Adult & Teen Challenge, to eliminate confusion in regard to the fact that the organization not only works with teenagers but also works with adults in its addiction treatment centers.\n\nThe official Statement of Purpose of Adult and Teen Challenge is, \"To provide youth, adults and families with an effective and comprehensive Christian faith-based solution to life-controlling problems, such as substance abuse, in order to become productive members of society. By applying biblical principles, Teen Challenge endeavors to help people become mentally-sound, emotionally-balanced, socially-adjusted, physically-well, and spiritually-alive.\"\n\nWhile the residential model continue to be the primary service of Teen Challenges around the world, an increasing number of community small groups and other non-residential models are also used.\n\nAdult and Teen Challenge USA is an independent 501(c)3 nonprofit headquartered in Ozark, Missouri. Its current President is Joe Batluck. Though self-governing, it also exists as a department of the U.S. Missions division of the Assemblies of God USA. The US network consisting of ~85 501(c)3 corporations representing ~200 residential programs.\n\nAdult and Teen Challenge USA maintains accreditation standards, curriculum, training and resources to all Teen Challenge organizations within the United States and Puerto Rico.\n\nEach individual US corporation is self-governing, though TC USA does require a minimum set of accreditation standards be met to be able to function as an \"Adult and Teen Challenge\" affiliate.\n\nGlobal Teen Challenge is an independent 501(c)3 nonprofit headquartered in Columbus, Georgia.\n\nThe mission of Global Teen Challenge is to assist with the development of new centers outside the US, but they also provide resources and training to the existing programs.\n\nIn 2017, Global Teen Challenge is in 110 countries representing 1100 programs.\n\nGlobal Teen Challenge is divided into regions with a director or representative for each region. \nRegional directors are listed at https://globaltc.org/meet-our-team/\n\nPrograms have a general duration of 12 months.\n\nThe ATC-USA Board of Directors approved a \"Phase\" system to explain core structures of Teen Challenge. All centers of any Phase are expected to be involved in Phase 1. The phase ministry is as follows:\n\n\nAnother major component of the Adult and Teen Challenge structure is the curriculum created by Dave Batty. This is known as the \"Group Studies for New Christians\" and the \"Personal Studies for New Christians\".\n\nIn 1973, Archie Johnston compared results of Teen Challenge with that of a transactional analysis approach at a Terminal Island Federal Correctional Institution therapeutic community, and with a third group who received no treatment.\n\nWhile the numbers of subjects was small (17 in each group), he found evidence to support his recommendation that, while Teen Challenge was an \"effective\" treatment (with a drug recidivism rate after 29 months of 32%), Transactional Analysis was a \"very effective\" treatment (with a comparable 16% rate), suggesting that perhaps the lower recidivism rates were a result of TA changing the addiction concept of the self-image more thoroughly and at a slower pace. He hoped that Teen Challenge would incorporate some psychotherapy into their treatment model.\n\nA Wilder Research study of 154 former residents who graduated between 2007 and 2009 reported that:\n\n\nAaron Bicknese tracked down 59 former Teen Challenge students in 1995, in order to compare them with a similar group of addicts who had spent one or two months in a hospital rehabilitation program. His results, part of his PhD dissertation, were published in \"The Teen Challenge Drug Treatment Program in Comparative Perspective\" \n\nBicknese found that Teen Challenge graduates reported returning to drug use less often than the hospital program graduates. His results also showed that Teen Challenge graduates were far more likely to be employed, with 18 of the 59 working at Teen Challenge itself, which relies in part on former clients to run the program.\n\nMuch of these results were to Teen Challenge's benefit, and the high success rates (up to 86%) he found have been quoted in numerous Teen Challenge and Christian Counseling websites.\n\nAccording to a 2001 New York Times item, some social scientists complain that the 86 percent success rate of Teen Challenge disregards the people who dropped out during the program, even though most other such programs also count only those who complete their program. Since Teen Challenge is a longer term program, often lasting up to a year, more people do pull out than do in programs that are a few days to a few weeks long. So, counting dropouts could also fail to show the true effectiveness of the program, since those individuals didn't complete the program and gain the full effectiveness of it. Teen Challenge reports that in the program's first four-month phase, 25 to 30 percent typically drop out, and in the next eight months, 10 percent more leave. In their testimony before the United States House Committee on Ways and Means, Texas Freedom Network Education Fund, have claimed that the much-quoted success rates \"dramatically distort the truth\", due to the lack of reference to the drop-out rate. Doug Wever, author of, \"The Teen Challenge Therapeutic Model\" has stated, \"I would respectfully suggest that the Texas Freedom Network's position here is overstated in that it's not unusual at all for the research design of effectiveness studies to look only at graduates; therefore the outcomes of these independent studies do provide a legitimate and dramatic basis for comparison given the results. At the same time, Teen Challenge must be careful to communicate what has actually been measured.\"\n\nIn 1995, auditors from the Texas Commission for Alcohol and Drug Abuse (TCADA) demanded that Teen Challenge obtain state licensing and employ state-licensed counselors. As a result, (then) Governor George W. Bush publicly defended Teen Challenge and pursued alternative licensing procedures for faith-based organizations. \"“Teen Challenge should view itself as a pioneer in how Texas approaches faith-based programs. I’ll call together people, ask them to make recommendations... licensing standards have to be different from what they are today,”\" then-Governor Bush said.\n\nBush then created a state Task Force on Faith-Based Programs, to identify and lift regulatory barriers for faith-based social service providers. The task force included J. Herbert Meppelink, the Executive Director of South Texas Teen Challenge. The resultant 1997 and 1999 Texas legislation exempted Faith-Based Programs, such as Teen Challenge, from state licensing and the health, safety and quality of care standards that accompany that licensing.\n\nLater, when Bush became US president, Teen Challenge was cited in public policy debates as an example of why such programs merit the federal funding of faith-based organizations. Its documented success rates played a role in the establishment of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives in 2001.\n\nConversely, such funding has come under attack through comments by John Castellani, the former President of Teen Challenge USA, during a House Government Reform subcommittee, examining the efficacy of religious social service providers. During the hearing, Castellani said Teen Challenge does not hire non-Christians as employees and, when asked if the group takes non-Christians as clients, he said yes, and boasted that some Jews who finish his Teen Challenge program become \"completed Jews.\" Critics of faith-based funding cite this as an example of how religious intolerance could be publicly funded. (The \"completed Jews\" phrase has been used by some Christians and Messianic Jews to refer to people who previously followed Judaism and have become believers in Yeshua (Jesus).\n\n"}
{"id": "9050559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9050559", "title": "Tepetlaoztoc", "text": "Tepetlaoztoc\n\nTepetlaoztoc or Tepetlaoxtoc (Nahuatl for \"tepetate-cave place\", ) is an archaeological site located in the Central Mexico plateau region of Mesoamerica, which was an Aztec/Nahua settlement during the Late Postclassic period of Mesoamerican chronology, with an occupancy continuing through the Colonial period. The site is situated in the Valley of Mexico, to the northeast of Texcoco.\n\nIn the 1970s the area was relatively undeveloped, and one could, on aerial photographs, still discern the 16th century field lines and irrigation system drawn in the Codex of Santa María Asunción (manuscript in the Biblioteca Nacional) and the Codex Vergara. Likewise one could locate many of the aldeas that were tributary to Tepetlaoztoc, and still find the wall bases of their houses. By the time of William T. Sanders's work in the 1990s, development had largely destroyed these remnants.\n"}
{"id": "56932378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56932378", "title": "Types of prostitution in modern Japan", "text": "Types of prostitution in modern Japan\n\nProstitution in modern Japan is made illegal by article 3 of the of 1956. However, the definition of prostitution is strictly limited to coitus with an 'unspecified person'. This means that the sale of numerous acts such as oral sex, anal sex, mammary intercourse and other non-coital sex acts is legal. The , also known as the \"Law to Regulate Adult Entertainment Businesses\", amended in 1985, 1999 and 2005, regulates these businesses.\n\nSince sexual intercourse for money is officially prohibited, the sex industry in Japan has developed into a variety of forms. Soaplands are bath houses where customers are soaped up and serviced by staff. Fashion health shops and pink salons are notionally massage or esthetic treatment parlors; image clubs are themed versions of the same. Call girls operate via delivery health services. Freelancers can get in contact with potential customers via \"deai sites\" (Internet dating sites), and the actual act of prostitution is legally called \"enjo kōsai\" or \"compensated dating\" to avoid legal trouble.\n\n, also known as \"shutchō health\" (出張ヘルス) or by the abbreviation \"deriheru\" (デリヘル), is a form of prostitution in Japan similar to fashion health, \"health\" being a term for sexual services. The difference being that the brothel has no premises and is essentially a call girl (or \"escort service\") with women being dispatched to their customers' homes or to hotels.\n\nOutcall call girl businesses distribute advertising handouts to home and apartment mailboxes, telephone booths, restrooms and the like in big cities in Japan. There are also numerous websites to find these businesses or other similar businesses.\n\n, or health for short, is a form of massage parlor which circumvents Japanese anti-prostitution laws by offering a range of services that stop short of sexual intercourse.\n\nFashion-health clubs can be found in all large cities in Japan and are easy to spot because of their bright flashing lights and garish decor. Often advertised as \"health clubs\", they may confuse foreigners unfamiliar with the activities inside. These clubs usually post pictures of their so-called masseuses near the entrance; however, sometimes faces and eyes are censored with pixellation or black strips. Some club entrances feature caricatured depictions of the services provided.\n\nAn , or , is a type of brothel in Japan similar to fashion health parlors. They differ in that image clubs are themed along popular sexual fantasies such as an office, a doctor's surgery, a classroom, or a train carriage. The prostitutes themselves, whose activities are usually limited to oral sex, wear exaggerated costumes appropriate to the setting and the desire of the customer. Image clubs simulating molestation of female train passengers became popular in the wake of stricter enforcement of laws against groping on trains.\n\nImage clubs may offer itemized pricing for particular services such as taking instant photographs, removing a woman's underwear or taking it home. Women working at image clubs are paid around 30,000 to 35,000 yen per day and may make more than 1 million yen per month.\n\nA , or \"\" for short, is a type of brothel in Japan which specialises in oral sex.\n\nPink salons skirt laws against prostitution by serving food, operating without showers or private rooms, and limiting the services provided to fellatio. There may also be additional activities such as fingering the \"companion\" and sumata. They exist all over Japan and women who work in them may service a dozen or more men per shift.\n\n, or \"sōpu\", is a Japanglish word constructed from the two English words \"soap\" and \"land\" and is part of Japan's nighttime entertainment industry, also known as Mizu shōbai. \n\nThere are various kinds of soaplands, and they are usually located in complexes with varying numbers of soaplands. Well-known complexes are located in Susukino in Sapporo, Yoshiwara and Kabukicho in Tokyo, Kawasaki, Kanazuen in Gifu, Ogoto in Shiga, and Fukuhara in Kobe, Sagaminumata in Odawara, and Nakasu in Fukuoka, but there are many other areas, especially in \"onsen\" (\"hot springs\") towns. Although the main clientele for soaplands are males, there are also a few soaplands specifically for female clients. Prices for a session at a soapland vary depending on location, time of day, rank of provider, and length of the session.\n\nAlthough any sex between 'unspecified persons' is prohibited, it is not between 'specified persons' (acquaintances). In his book, “Fuzoku Eigyo Torishimari” (“Control of Sex Business Operations”), Kansai University professor Yoshikazu Nagai, documents that Soaplands exploit this to provide intercourse. The customers pay an entry fee to 'use the bathing facilities' and a separate fee to the masseuse. Whilst the massage takes place, the two become 'acquainted' so any paid sexual services that follow are not viewed as prostitution as defined by the law. This interpretation of the law has been in use since the 1960s.\n\nSoaplands began when explicit prostitution in Japan became illegal in 1958, as a simple form of bath where women washed men's bodies. They were originally known as \"toruko-buro\", meaning Turkish bath. Following a 1984 campaign by Turkish scholar Nusret Sancaklı (, ) denouncing the use of this name for brothels, the new name \"soapland\" was the winning entry in a nationwide contest to rename them.\n\n (sometimes known in the West as a \"pussyjob\") is a Japanese term for a non-penetrative sex act popular in Japanese brothels. It is a form of frottage performed by a female sex worker upon a male client. The sex worker rubs the client's penis with her thighs (intercrural sex) and labia majora. The goal is to stimulate ejaculation without penile-vaginal penetration. This activity circumvents the of 1956, which prohibits sexual intercourse for money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6015678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6015678", "title": "U.S.–Japan Status of Forces Agreement", "text": "U.S.–Japan Status of Forces Agreement\n\nU.S.–Japan Status of Forces Agreement (formally, the \"Agreement under Article VI of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between Japan and the United States of America, Regarding Facilities and Areas and the Status of United States Armed Forces in Japan\") is an agreement between Japan and the United States signed on 19 January 1960 in Washington, the same day as the revised U.S.-Japan Security Treaty. It is a status of forces agreement (SOFA) as stipulated in article VI of that treaty, which referred to \"a separate agreement\" governing the \"use of [...] facilities and areas [granted to the U.S.] as well as the status of United States armed forces in Japan\". It replaced the earlier \"U.S.-Japan Administrative Agreement\" that governed such issues under the original 1951 security treaty.\n\nThe SOFA has become a major political issue following instances of violent crimes allegedly committed by servicemembers. Although the Japanese court system has jurisdiction for most crimes committed by American servicemembers in Japan, there are exceptions if the American was \"acting in official duty,\" or if the victim was another American. In those cases the American system has jurisdiction, unless it is voluntarily waived.\n\nAdditionally, some idiosyncrasies of the agreement create areas of perceived privilege for American servicemembers. For instance, because the SOFA exempts most U.S. military members from Japanese visa and passport laws, past incidents occurred in which U.S. military members were transferred back to the U.S. before facing charges in Japanese courts. Furthermore, the agreement requires that if a U.S. servicemember is suspected of a crime but is not captured outside of a base by the Japanese authorities, the U.S. authorities are to retain custody until the servicemember is formally indicted by the Japanese. Although the agreement also requires U.S. cooperation with Japanese authorities with investigations, the Japanese authorities often object that they still do not have regular access to question or interrogate U.S. servicemembers, making it difficult for Japanese prosecutors to prepare cases for indictment. This is exacerbated by the unique nature of Japanese pre-indictment interrogations, which are focused on eliciting a confession as a prerequisite for indictment, are often conducted without a lawyer, and can last as long as 23 days. Given the difference between this interrogation system and the system in the U.S., the U.S. has argued that the extraterritoriality granted its military members under the SOFA is necessary to afford them the same rights that exist under the U.S. criminal justice system. However, since the 1995 Okinawan rape incident, the U.S. has agreed to favorably consider handing over suspects in serious cases such as rape and murder before they have been charged. On 16 January 2017, Japan and the U.S. \"signed a supplementary agreement to limit and clarify the definition of the civilian component protected under the Status of Forces Agreement.\" This agreement came after the 2016 rape and murder of an Okinawa woman, allegedly by a civilian contract worker employed at the U.S. Kadena Air Base in Okinawa Prefecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31606384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31606384", "title": "Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau", "text": "Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau\n\nThe Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau are an indigenous people of Brazil, living in the state of Rondônia.\n\nThey live in six villages on the borders of Terra Indigena Uru-Eu-Uaw-Uaw, which is shared by three sub-groups, the Amondawa, Jupaú, and Uru Pa In, as well as the Jurureí, Parakua, and two uncontacted tribes whose names are not known.\n\nThey are also known as the Amondauas, Bocas-negras, Bocas-pretas, Cabeça-vermelha, Cautários, Sotérios, Urupain, as well as Jupaú, Black-Mouths, Red-Heads, Urueu-Wau-Wau.\n\nThe Uru-Eu-Uaw-Uaw came into contact with non-Natives, specifically the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) in 1981, which was followed by a loss of population. In 1981, there were 250 Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau people, but only 89 in 1993. Diseases and violent attacks by outsiders have killed them. Rubber harvesters fought FUNAI's outlines of Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau lands. In 1991, one of the world's largest known tin deposits was discovered in Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau lands.\n\nAfter 1993 their population began increasing again. The Terra Indigena Uru-Eu-Uaw-Uaw was established by the Brazilian government to protect the tribes and only Indians can legally live in the indigenous territory; however, loggers and miners have regularly invaded their lands. Missionaries are active among the Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau, and an NGO called Kanindé is trying to fight outside influences and assimilationists on the Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau.\n\nThe Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau speak the Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau language, a Tupi–Guarani language, Subgroup IV. The language is also known as Uru-Eu-Uau-Uau, Eru-Eu-Wau-Wau, Ureuwawau, or Kagwahiva, and its ISO 639-3 language code is \"urz\".\n\nThe Uru-Eu-Uaw-Uaw are hunter-gatherers. They use a poison made from tree bark on their arrows when hunting tapir and other game. They are known for their distinctive tattoos around their mouths made from \"genipapo\", a black vegetal dye.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19835614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19835614", "title": "Venezuelans", "text": "Venezuelans\n\nVenezuelan people are people identified with Venezuela. Venezuelans are predominantly Roman Catholic and speak Spanish. The majority of Venezuelans are the result of a mixture of Europeans, Africans and Amerindians. Approximately 51.6% of the population are Mestizos of mixed European, African and Amerindian ancestry, and 43.6% of Venezuelans identify as European or Middle Eastern. An additional 3.6% identify as Black/African-descendants, while 3.2% identify as Amerindians.\n\nPre-Columbian times, is a historical stage where various immigrant groups begin to move the current Americas, at which writing was not used, thus being difficult to find evidence of the people who began to populate this land. However, archaeological excavations are the evidences that establish certain periods that were taking place on the continent.\n\nIn the case of Venezuela, probably the man first appeared 16,000 years ago, this due to migration flows from other indigenous cultures of America, from the south to the Amazon, from the west through Los Andes and north by the Caribbean Sea.\n\nThere are four periods of diversity that develop in the current Venezuela, which also entering a new period, it did not mean the end of the previous.\n\nThe first migrations to the continent were probably from East Asia to 15,000 years. C. These early migrants (called forth by the generic name \"Indians\") came at first to be located in North America, later moving to the territory of present Venezuela. Now for their offspring, it was clear verify the Asian features on their faces that will adapt to the climate and lifestyle.\n\nDuring this period, various mammals were disappearing by climatic changes already beginning to take place from 5000 years ago, so the population in the mainland, starts to move towards the coast and spread to some nearby islands, trying to find new feeding alternatives.\n\nOn August 2, 1498 (516 years), Christopher Columbus, and the Spanish colonizers ships, landed for the first time in American mainland and did so in the current Venezuelan territory. With the rapid colonization process despite small local indigenous rebellions, the Spaniards manage to conquer the territory, beginning during this period the most significant crossbreeding process that will define later the social profile of the country.\n\nWith the passage of time, and the introduction of the African continent, a third race, the Africans, started to integrate into the population, creating heterogeneity in the faces of the society of the time.\n\nDuring colonial centuries in Venezuela began to settle the \"peninsular whites\", coming directly from the Iberian Peninsula and which were those who held positions in the crown, representing only 15% of the population. Another group of whites who were born in Venezuela were originally called \"Creole\", representing 20% of the population: they were mostly from the Canary Islands and they worked mainly in petty trade. The other two smaller groups were the original inhabitants and indigenous blacks brought from Africa: they were about 5% of the population. Soon the original groups started to have interbreedings and this created a process of \"fusion\" between the different racial groups: The \"brown\" were descendants of the unions between Whites, Indians and Blacks and by the 18th century were the largest racial and social group being more than 60% of the population.\n\nThis process is currently responsible for the majority of Venezuelans who are of mixed race.\n\nThe country has a diverse population that reflects its rich history and the people that have lived here since antiquity to the present. The historic amalgam of different principal groups form the basis of the current demographics of Venezuela: the European immigrants, the Amerindian peoples, African, Asian, Middle Eastern and other recent immigrants.\n\nMany of the indigenous peoples were absorbed by the mixed population, but the remaining 500,000 currently represent more than 85 different cultures.\n\nEuropean immigrants were mainly Spanish colonists, but another large and growing number are descendants of Europeans (Portuguese, Italians, Germans and Americans) who migrated to the region in mid-twentieth century during the oil growth in the country. Small numbers are descendants of French, English and Polish, as they emigrated during World War II and the Cold War.\n\nBlack Africans were brought as slaves, mostly coastal lowlands, beginning early in the sixteenth century and continuing into the nineteenth century. Other immigrant populations are Asian and Middle East, particularly Lebanon, Syria and the Arab world, some Jews from southern Spain, Israel and Central European nations, East Asians like Chinese and Japanese, Dominicans, Haitians, Cubans, Peruvians, Argentinians, Uruguayans, Chileans, Ecuadorians and Colombians, this being the greatest social impact due to a large number of displaced individuals who entered the Venezuelan territory during the armed conflict in that country; which generated a high supply of labor, personnel and domestic economy informal.\n\nCurrently, according to the critic D'Ambrosio and other academics, about 51.6% of Venezuelans are mestizos (called \"Criollos\": the 40% of them are with mostly white features, 20% with mostly black features and 10% with mostly Indians features), 45% are white, 2% are black and 1% Indians.\n\nNotably, according to these scholars, is the fact that virtually there are no pure blacks in Venezuela, including those with the darkest skin, found especially in the area of Barlovento. Most of which being limited to black Venezuelans who descend from recent immigrants. Virtually the same is also said for both white Venezuelans and indigenous Venezuelans.\n\nIn addition, according to a genetic autosomal DNA study conducted in 2008 by the University of Brasilia (UNB), the composition of the population of Venezuela is: 60.60% European, 23% of Native American contribution and 16% of Africa's contribution.\n\nThe population of approximately 28 million people (in 2011) \nmade Venezuela the sixth-most populous country in Latin America (after Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, Argentina and Peru). Approximately more than one million (4-6% of the total population) are living in other countries.\n\nMore than ninety percent of the Venezuelans live in urban areas – a figure significantly higher than the world average. The literacy rate (98 percent) in Venezuela is also well above the world average, and the rate of population growth slightly exceeds the world average. A large proportion of Venezuelans are young, largely because of recent decreases in the infant mortality rate. While 30 percent of the people are 14 years old or younger, just 4 percent are aged 65 or older.\n\nThe country has a diverse population that reflects its colorful history and the peoples that have resided there throughout. The historic amalgam of the different main groups forms the basics of Venezuela's current demographics: European immigrants, Amerindian peoples, Africans, Asians, Middle Easterners and other recent immigrants.The autosomal DNA genetic composition of population in Venezuela, is 60.60% of European contribution, 23% of indigenous contribution, and 16.30% of African contribution.\n\nMany of the indigenous peoples were absorbed into the Mestizo population, because of the heavy mixture of European and African people. They represent over half of the country's population (about 51.6%).\n\nThe European immigrants were mostly Spanish colonists, but a high number of other Europeans brought by the past high growth from Portuguese, Italian, and German immigrants to the region in the middle 20th century by the Petroleum Growth, and in much smaller numbers French, English, Polish, Russian, Greek, Scandinavian, Romanian, Ukrainian and Hungarian communities immigrated during the Second World War and the Cold War. 300,000 Italians and an equal numbers of Spaniards immigrated in the 1940s and 1950s, and earlier who were fleeing from the Spanish Civil War (1930s).\n\nThey are concentrated though almost half of Venezuela's land area that lies north of the Orinoco (where the 95% vast majority of Venezuelans live), principally in important urban areas like Greater Caracas, Maracaibo, Maracay, Valencia, Lecheria, Barquisimeto/Cabudare, Colonia Tovar, Punto Fijo; the Andean States, Margarita Island and Araya Peninsula. They represent almost half of the population (43.6%).\n\nBlack Africans were brought as slaves, mostly to the coastal lowlands, beginning early in the 16th century, and continuing into the mid 19th century. \nAlthough they are located in almost the entire country, the Black and African population are concentrated in places where they used to be slaves and worked as farm hands on subsistence farms of plantains, cocoa, tobacco, sugar cane and cotton in the Aroa Valley, Litoral varguense, Eastern Falcon state; Gibraltar, Bobures and Palmarito in the Sur del Lago Region; and in areas where slaves would run away during Colonial Venezuela and formed cumbes, communities in mountainous and isolated areas, such as, the Sierra de Falcón, Barlovento Region (Acevedo, Andrés Bello, Brión, Buroz and Páez municipalities), Ocumare de La Costa, Choroní; El Callao and Paria Peninsula (where Afro-Trinidadian also migrated); and through Los Llanos, well dispersed in small to decent percents. They represent 3.6% of the population.\n\nBefore the Spanish colonization of the region that would become the country of Venezuela, the territory was the home to many different indigenous peoples. Today more than fifty different indigenous ethnic groups inhabit Venezuela. Most of them speak languages belonging to the Arawakan, Cariban, and Chibchan languages families. Pure indigenous Amerindians comprise around 2 percent of the population. There are 101 languages listed for Venezuela in the Ethnologue database, of which 80 are spoken today as living languages. Today, they're mostly located south of the Orinoco, in the Guayana Region, an area that covers half of the country but the population represents just around 2% of Venezuelans; other important regions where they're located are on Zulia state, Apure state, the Eastern Region and Orinoco Delta.\n\nArab immigration to Venezuela started as early as the 19th and 20th centuries. They came mostly from Lebanon, Syria, and Palestine. They are mostly located in the most important urban areas and Margarita Island, representing around 5% of the population in Venezuela.\n\nIsrael has been chosen by many Venezuelan Jews, along with the United States and other countries.\n\nAccording to the Venezuelan Institute of Statistics, about one million Venezuelans have Syrian origins and more than 20,000 Venezuelans are registered in the Venezuelan Embassy in Damascus. Other sources stated that there is around 60,000 Syrian-Venezuelans living in Syria. More than 200,000 people from the Sweida area carry Venezuelan citizenship and most are members of Syria's Druze sect, who immigrated to Venezuela in the past century.\n\nThe largest sub-groups are immigrants or descendants of immigrants from Mainland China, India, Japan and Korea. The first wave of immigrants began in 1847 and consisted of mainly Cantonese immigrants; then the second wave during beginning of the 1940s and 1950s, consisted of Chinese and Japanese immigrants; reaching a peak in the mid-1970s in connection with the oil boom, where Korean and Indian immigrants (mostly Indo-Caribbeans) formed a new group to the country. Asian people represent around 1% of the Venezuelan population.\n\nThe Chinese in Venezuela are the 4th largest diaspora in the Americas.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, 88.3 percent of the population is Christian, primarily Roman Catholic (71%), 17 percent Protestant, and the remaining 0.03 percent Mormons (LDS Church). The Venezuelans without religion are 9% (atheist 2%, agnostic or indifferent 6% and doesn't know/doesn't respond 1% ), almost 3% of the population follow other religions (1% of them are of santeria).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "102668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102668", "title": "Viridian design movement", "text": "Viridian design movement\n\nThe Viridian Design Movement was an aesthetic movement focused on concepts from bright green environmentalism. The name was chosen to refer to a shade of green that does not quite look natural, indicating that the movement was about innovative design and technology, in contrast with the \"leaf green\" of traditional environmentalism. The movement tied together environmental design, techno-progressivism, and global citizenship. It was founded in 1998 by Bruce Sterling, a postcyberpunk science fiction author. Sterling always remained the central figure in the movement, with Alex Steffen perhaps the next best-known. Steffen, Jamais Cascio, and Jon Lebkowsky, along with some other frequent contributors to Sterling's Viridian notes, formed the Worldchanging blog. Sterling wrote the introduction to Worldchanging's book (\"Worldchanging: A Users Guide for the 21st Century\"), which (according to Ross Robertson) is considered the definitive volume on bright green thinking. Sterling formally closed the Viridian movement in 2008, saying there was no need to continue its work now that bright green environmentalism had emerged.\n"}
{"id": "30847681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30847681", "title": "Warming center", "text": "Warming center\n\nA warming center is a short-term emergency shelter that operates when temperatures or a combination of precipitation, wind chill, wind and temperature become dangerously inclement. Their paramount purpose is the prevention of death and injury from exposure to the elements. This may include acute trauma from falling objects such as trees, or injury to extremities due to frostbite. A more prevalent emergency which warming centers seek to prevent is hypothermia, the risk for which is aggravated by factors such as age, alcohol consumption, and homelessness.\n\nThus warming centers are frequently directed to the circumstances of persons who are \"unsheltered\" due to a personal state of homelessness and who, for one reason or another, do not utilize existing homeless shelters. In other circumstances, centers serve stranded motorists or, during cold-weather power outages, homeowners and tenants.\n\nIn some cases, when cold snaps threaten wildlife, they are created and operated to protect endangered wild animals. Cold blooded animals such as turtles are particularly vulnerable as are their hatchlings. Emergency shelters vary in policy on pets, companions, or domesticated animals, although service animals may be admitted even when other animals are prohibited. During large scale disasters, there are frequently separate locations including a safe place for horses. \n\nWhile they are in some cases directly affiliated with existing homeless shelter operations, warming centers are more frequently housed in different locations. Due to zoning, special use permit, and fire code restrictions, homeless shelters and day centers serving homeless populations are often legally constrained from exceeding authorized capacity. Not infrequently, existing shelters are engaged with ongoing negotiations with neighbors who in some cases take a NIMBY (\"not in my backyard\") attitude toward existing operations. Any increase in capacity can become politicized, despite the exigencies of spikes in cold temperature days, particularly when cold or rainy weather is routine.\n\nThus, they need to secure alternative sites unless restrictions are waived due to extreme or otherwise unusual weather. Such waivers may be either on a one-time basis, or pursuant to memorandum of understanding (MOU's) with relevant agencies; however, existing shelter sites are typically at the highest level of use compatible with neighborhood character and the political balance of power. Few warming center sites appear to be utilizing the same building as routine homeless shelter operations, and the preponderance of them do situate in alternative sites.\n\nWhen not using existing shelters under MOU's or other legal instruments relaxing ordinary legal restrictions, venues of operation frequently involve coalitions of non-profit entities which own or operate suitable real estate. These include churches and community organizations but also may involve special purpose institutional real estate such as national guard armories.\n\nSome municipalities designate existing public facilities as warming centers during extreme cold weather. Examples include senior centers, public libraries, and police stations.\n\nWarming centers are generally opened for only a few days at a time based on the conditions of the area, although some are open for specific portion of the year when weather conditions are adverse.\n\nThe city of Chicago opens its shelters from December 1 to March 1 each year, as well as any other times the temperature drops below freezing.\n\nThe city of Portland, Oregon, uses a more complex formula to determine when to open shelters; factors include wet or dry conditions, the night's predicted low, the three-day trend of lows, sustained wind speed, and whether snow is on the ground or predicted to fall.\n\nActivation is generally a centralized decision based upon what is termed either an algorithm, or, in other jurisdictions, an Activation Trigger. Lane County, Oregon utilizes an elaborate system of tiered readiness levels in collaboration with the American Red Cross. They refer to these levels as their \"alert status\", ranging from fair weather OUTLOOK status to STANDBY,WATCH and finally ACTIVATE.\n\nOnce a center has been sited, staffed and the volunteer phone tree has been activated, it is required to connect with the populations it intends to reach and persuade them to come in. A significant population is resistant to interaction with perceived \"authorities\" and others may not have sufficient contact with the system of care to be adequately aware of their options. A recent trend promoted by organizations such as Common Ground is to piggy back vulnerability indexes and site data onto HUD-mandated enumeration studies. One of the benefits hoped for with regard to those projects is that there will be better opportunities to promote the warming center option to vulnerable populations.\n\nCenters often coordinate with outside programs. For communication of the availability of open centers, many coordinate with the Federally mandated 2-1-1 or the 3-1-1 phone information system. Street newspapers are generally published weekly or less frequently, which makes them useful only for general information such as contact numbers and locations.\n\nFor transportation to centers, some offer free transportation, in some cases for persons being released from jail into conditions of inclement weather.\nIn blizzard conditions, snowmobile enthusiasts have been mobilized.\n\nOnce opened and populated, they typically offer only the most bare-bones of service: a cot and perhaps a bowl of hot soup. They are generally operated with one or more experienced professional staff person, due to the difficulties which untrained volunteers might encounter in dealing with the clientele. Often, users of warming centers are persons who are not participating in routine homeless shelter services due to disciplinary exclusions or non-compliance with behavioral policies. In order to distinguish mere oddness from behavioral disorders which might disrupt the ability of other persons to obtain service, professional staff is the preferred alternative to all -volunteer personnel.\n\nOthers utilizing Warming Centers are persons who are not in the shelter system for an array of reasons not necessarily associated with pathology. They may personally be in transit but not prepared financially or otherwise to contend with unanticipated weather conditions. Others may be locals who are eligible for but decline to stay in shelters due to objections to policies and procedures.\n\nWarming centers frequently are opened as a response to the occurrence of hospitalizations dues to hypothermia when unsheltered persons are discovered in extreme exposure-related trauma or mortality.\n\nThey seem to go back as far as 1945, when used in Berlin at the conclusion of World War II. Clothing and blankets were allowed for under the air lift plans and an extensive plan was developed for public \"warming centers.\"\n\nIn more recent times, U.S. warming centers are proliferating as a means to serve the unsheltered homeless during temperature and rainfall spikes. Such cohorts may not have access to year-round homeless shelters due to supply and demand imbalance, or may simply be uninterested in nightly access during mild weather, but some observers note that others may be unable to comply with conditions for use. According to Detroit socialist writer Naomi Spencer, they serve also as \"a last resort for homeless people to find respite from the cold, especially those with drug addictions, mental illness, or criminal backgrounds, who may not meet requirements imposed by some homeless shelters or religious charity operations.\"\nOthers, including straight edge, DIY, or anarchist-identified persons who may choose to live \"off-the-grid\", without facing exclusion from quotidian shelters due to sobriety issues.\n\nOthers simply find shelters too regimented, too much like jail: newspaperman Mike Hendricks quotes a former resident of an unauthorized homeless encampment named Crow, who said that \"some guys would sooner do what they want and not be told what to do.\"\n\nTom Brown's Field Guide to City and Suburban Survival contains chapters on shelters and heating. He also outlines means of creating a personal warming center by using ATM access cards. His recommendations have been circulated by Chicago's urban community activist Chrisdian Wittenburg including instructions on building a makeshift stove and a plethora of collaborative cultural projects.\n\nPerception of the importance and priority of warming centers varies. At one extreme, their under-utilization or minimal level of service is characterized as unfriendly. During the blizzard of February 2011, the City of Ottawa, Illinois did not have established warming centers, and an \"ad hoc\" facility was established. Users were required to bring their own food and blankets, drawing fire for the \"have-nots...can all freeze to death...here in the friendly city.\" In Detroit, failure to disburse Community Development Block Grants resulted in a situation where people slept in plastic chairs or \"in cold hallways\".\n\nAt the other end of the continuum, critics have expressed skepticism that the churches and other facilities utilized for warming centers are appropriate and capable of handling the clientele. Another contention is that assisting homeless people \"enables\" them to continue a lifestyle which is problematic.\n\nBut advocates of warming centers have similarly noted that they tend to maintain the status quo by not addressing structural factors, but their emphasis is that too little rather than too much is done to help the needy. Sue Murphy is the administrative director of Interfaith Action of Evanston, Illinois, which has a daytime center for a time slot during which overnight shelters are closed to clients. She states that warmth and snacks \"is not nearly enough...what we need is a place where they can go the whole winter. Her concerns are seconded by Sue Loellebach of Connections for the Homeless, who laments the paucity of warm refuge during daylight hours, but rejects that and even extended-stay shelters as inadequate and that they perpetuate the status quo.\n\n"}
{"id": "9328671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9328671", "title": "Whitney Cross", "text": "Whitney Cross\n\nWhitney Rogers Cross (1913–1955), a mid-20th-century historian, is still well known in certain American academic circles as the author of \"The Burned-over District: The Social and Intellectual History of Enthusiastic Religion in Western New York, 1800 – 1850\" (Cornell University Press, 1950).\n\nCross was born in Rochester, New York in 1913. After completing an M.A. in History at the University of Rochester, he taught high school in Painted Post, New York from 1936 to 1939, when he left to enter a graduate program at Harvard University. Cross’s teachers at Harvard included Perry Miller, widely considered to be one of the inventors of the sub-discipline now commonly referred to as intellectual history; Frederick Merk, a social historian influenced by the “frontier hypothesis” of Frederick Jackson Turner; and Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr., whose pioneering work in both social history and women’s history shaped a generation of scholars. While working on his dissertation with Schlesinger, Cross served as the first head of the Local and Regional History Collection at Cornell University. After completing his degree in 1945, he held teaching positions at Connecticut College for Women, at Smith College, and at West Virginia University. He died in 1955.\n\n\"The Burned-over District\" asserts that during the first half of the nineteenth century, the inhabitants of the western third of New York State showed themselves to be atypically willing to give themselves over to various “isms,” including revivalism, Mormonism, Millerism, spiritualism, AntiMasonic agitation, abolitionism, feminism, and experiments in communal living. Whether this area was in fact unusually hospitable to revivalism and social reform movements is now considered to be open to question, but this is beside the point. It was Cross’s methodology and the contours of his argument that struck his readers as innovative and worthy of imitation. Basically, Cross used materials commonly associated with local or regional history—demographic data, commercial records, and eyewitness accounts from relatively obscure individuals—to argue that the social environment constructed in this area at this time made the inhabitants more willing and more likely than most Americans of this era to pursue both their own improvement and the improvement of society as a whole. The book was reprinted in paperback as recently as 2006.\n\nJudith Wellman, “Crossing over Cross: Whitney Cross’s \"Burned-Over District\" as Social History” (\"Reviews in American History\" 17:1 (March 1989), 159 – 174).\n"}
{"id": "16711582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16711582", "title": "Women in Argentina", "text": "Women in Argentina\n\nThe status of women in Argentina has changed significantly following the return of democracy in 1983; and they have attained a relatively high level of equality. In the Global Gender Gap Report prepared by the World Economic Forum in 2009, Argentine women ranked 24th among 134 countries studied in terms of their access to resources and opportunities relative to men. They enjoy comparable levels of education, and somewhat higher school enrollment ratios than their male counterparts. They are well integrated in the nation's cultural and intellectual life, though less so in the nation's economy. Their economic clout in relation to men is higher than in most Latin American countries, however, and numerous Argentine women hold top posts in the Argentine corporate world; among the best known are Cris Morena, owner of the television production company by the same name, María Amalia Lacroze de Fortabat, former CEO and majority stakeholder of Loma Negra, the nation's largest cement manufacturer, and Ernestina Herrera de Noble, director of Grupo Clarín, the premier media group in Argentina.\n\nArgentine women, however, continue to face numerous systemic challenges common to those in other nations. Domestic violence in Argentina is a serious problem, as are obstacles to the timely prosecution of rape, the prevalence of sexual harassment, and a persistent gender pay gap, among other iniquities.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century, the Spanish crown ruled the region now encompassed by the modern countries of Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay, via the viceroyalty of Rio de la Plata, with the capital in Buenos Aires. With the Napoleonic invasion of Spain in 1808, areas of the viceroyalty rose in revolt. \n\nOne of the participants in the wars for independence was Juana Azurduy, who is honored now by both Bolivia and Argentina as contributing to independence. In 2009, Argentine President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner promoted Azurduy to the rank of general in the Argentine army from lieutenant colonel. The Argentine army named an infantry regiment based in the northern region of Salta as \"Generala Juana Azurduy.\" In June 2014, President Fernández de Kirchner unveiled the new Argentine 10-peso note with the image of Azurduy.\n\nArgentina in the early nineteenth century had few cities, but the port of Buenos Aires grew from a backwater of the Spanish empire into a major port in the late eighteenth century. Rural areas in Argentina were sparsely populated by the indigenous Mapuche and gauchos, mixed race men on horseback who hunted free-range cattle for their hides and to make dried beef. Non-indigenous women on the vast Argentine pampas were few, and depicted in art as vulnerable to abduction by \"barbarian\" Indians.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Fanny Edelman, a Communist leader who was part of the International Brigades in defense of the Second Spanish Republic, became an international figure representing Communism and Feminism. She participated to the creation of the Women's Union of Argentina in 1937, and in 1972 she became head of the Women's International Democratic Federation. She was honorary president of the Communist party of Argentina until her death in 2011.\n\nFollowing President Juan Perón's enactment of women's suffrage in 1949, First Lady Evita Perón led the Peronist Women's Party until her death in 1952, and helped enhance the role of women in Argentine society. Women played a significant role as both supporters and opponents of the National Reorganization Process, Argentina's last dictatorship, in the late 1970s, and the establishment of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, an advocacy group led by mothers of the disappeared, was done by Azucena Villaflor de Vicenti and, mostly, other women, on the rationale that they would be less likely to be the targets of repression (Villaflor de Vicenti and her fellow founders were murdered by the regime in 1977). Women's rights in Argentina progressed in significant ways following the return of democracy in 1983. President Raúl Alfonsín signed laws in 1987 both limiting \"Patria potestas\" (the latitude given to a father regarding his treatment of fellow household members, particularly children) and legalizing divorce, helping resolve the legal status of 3 million adults living in legal separation. The Argentine quota law signed by President Carlos Menem in 1991 provides that one-third of the members of both houses of congress must be women, a goal achieved through balanced election slates. As of 2006, there were 29 women in the 72-seat Senate, 86 women in the 257-seat Argentine Chamber of Deputies, two female Supreme Court justices, and three women in the presidential cabinet. The President of Argentina, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner was elected in 2007; the runner-up in the crowded field was also a woman, Elisa Carrió.\n\nWith regard to the organization of family life, Argentina has a history of social conservatism, and the influence of Catholicism in Argentina has been very strong throughout the 20th century. In Argentina, divorce was legalized only in 1987, and the legalization was the result of a struggle between different governments and conservative groups, mostly connected to the Catholic Church, that lasted a whole century. In 1987, President Raúl Alfonsín was successful in passing the divorce law, following a ruling of the Supreme Court. The new law also provided for gender equality between the wife and husband. By 1987, when divorce was legalized, only three other Latin American countries prohibited divorce (Paraguay and Colombia, which legalized it 1991, and Chile which legalized it in 2004). Adultery was decriminalized in 1995. Also, a new \"Civil and Commercial Code\", modernizing family law, came into force in August 2015.\n\nViolence against women is a serious problem in Argentina. Amnesty International reported in February 2012 that a woman died every two days as a result of domestic violence in Argentina. The civil society organization La Casa del Encuentro reported that between January and September 2013, 209 women died as a result of domestic or gender-based violence.\n\nIn 2009, Argentina enacted \"Ley de protección integral para prevenir, sancionar y erradicar la violencia contra las mujeres en los ámbitos en que desarrollen sus relacion es interpersonales [Ley 26.485]\" (The Comprehensive Law on the Prevention, Punishment and Elimination of Violence against Women in their Interpersonal Relations [Law 26.485]).\n\nIn November 2012, the Congress passed an anti femicide law imposing stricter penalties on perpetrators who kill their spouses, partners, or children as a consequence of gender based violence.\n\nAccording to the Human Rights Watch’s 2018 world report, 254 femicides were reported, but only 22 convictions were done in 2016.\n\nWhile individual prostitution is legal in Argentina, the promotion, facilitation, or forcing of people into prostitution is illegal. Argentina is a source, transit, and destination country for sex trafficking of women. Sex trafficking victims often come from Paraguay and the Dominican Republic.\n\nSexual harassment in the public sector is prohibited and is subject to disciplinary or corrective measures. In some jurisdictions, such as Buenos Aires City, sexual harassment may lead to the abuser’s dismissal, but in others, such as in Santa Fe Province, the maximum penalty is five days in prison.\n\nThe law prohibits rape, including spousal rape; but the need for proof, either in the form of clear physical injury or the testimony of a witness, has often presented difficulties in prosecuting such crimes. Women’s rights advocates have accused the police, hospitals, and courts of hostile attitudes against victims of sexual violence.\n\nThe 2009 law on violence against women (Law 26.485) has comprehensive provisions against sexual violence, including sexual violence within marriage (in particular Article 5(3)).\n\nBefore a change in law in 1999, sexual offenses were classified as \"Offences against honesty\", and the concept of \"honest woman\" appeared in certain sexual crimes. Act No. 25,087 of 1999 (\"Ley N° 25.087\") reformed the legislation, and changed its name to \"Offences against sexual integrity\".\n\nAlthough since the 1869 enactment of the Argentine Civil Code, all citizens are considered equal, and the Constitution of Argentina also states at Section 16 that \"The Argentine Nation admits neither blood nor birth prerogatives: there are neither personal privileges nor titles of nobility. All its inhabitants are equal before the law, and admissible to employment without any other requirement than their ability. Equality is the basis of taxation and public burdens\", women often encounter economic discrimination and hold a disproportionately higher number of lower-paying jobs. Approximately 70 percent of women employed outside the home work in unskilled jobs, although more women than men hold university degrees. According to a 2007 study by the Foundation for Latin American Economic Research (FIEL), men earned 5 percent more than women for equivalent full-time work in the Greater Buenos Aires area, and earned 21 percent more than women for equivalent part-time work, an imbalance explicitly prohibited by law: prison terms of up to three years can be issued for discrimination based on gender.\n\nAbortion in Argentina remains prohibited, and is legal only in cases of rape, or where the life of the mother is in danger. The Argentine Penal Code 846, moreover, was amended in 2008 to place stricter sanctions against women who seek an abortion, as well as any medical staff involved in the act. These limitations notwithstanding, an estimated 500,000 abortions are performed annually in Argentina (compared to around 700,000 live births), resulting in at least 10,000 hospitalizations due to complications (estimates vary widely) and around 100 deaths (a third of all maternal mortality).\n\nTraditionally, access to contraceptives has long been discouraged by a succession of Argentine governments, which instead rewarded large families with subsidies rising disproportionately with the seventh child. Although Argentine women have long had among Latin America's lowest birth rates (averaging 2.3 births per woman in recent years), the policy has tended to encourage higher birth rates in the lowest strata of society (including women least able to afford large families). Contraceptives are widely used by sexually active Argentine women, as condoms are by Argentine men, and a variety of birth control products can be obtained freely in pharmacies; the Argentine government began their free distribution in 2003. In general, couples and individuals have the right to decide freely the number, spacing, and timing of children, and have access to information and reproductive health services. The law requires the government to provide free contraceptives.\n\nTraditionally, politics was seen a male domain. The legal and social roles of women in Argentina were mostly dictated by the Spanish Law (which itself was based on Roman law) and by the Catholic Church. As such, women were subordinated first to their fathers and then to their husbands. Today, however, women have a notable presence in Argentinian politics, and they make up more than a third of the parliament. Argentina had two female presidents: Isabel Martínez de Perón and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner.\n\nThe National Council of Women carries out programs to promote equal social, political, and economic opportunities for women. The council worked with the special representative for international women's issues, the Ministry of Labor, and union and business organizations to form the Tripartite Committee on Equal Opportunity for Men and Women in the Workplace, which seeks to foster equal treatment and opportunities for men and women in the job market.\n\nIn 1985, Argentina ratified the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). In 1994, the National Constituent Convention incorporated the ratification of the CEDAW into the text of the new constitution. During the 1990s, some laws began to tackle domestic violence, by empowering police agencies and provincial judicial authorities to establish preventive measures. Although the Government of Argentina ratified the Inter-American Convention on the Prevention, Punishment and Eradication of Violence Against Women in 1996 (enacted in the 1994 Convention of Belem do Pará), not all Argentine provinces have promulgated regulations for its application. Despite the creation in 1985 of the Women's Department under the auspices of the Office of the President, provincial delegations or Women's Sections still have not been established throughout the entire nation.\n\n\n\nPortrait of typical woman from Argentina\n"}
{"id": "31100024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31100024", "title": "York Club", "text": "York Club\n\nThe York Club is a private social club that was incorporated on November 22, 1909. It is located at 135 St. George Street in The Annex neighbourhood of central Toronto, Ontario, Canada, close to the University of Toronto.\n\nThe club's building was originally constructed in 1889 as a residence for businessman George Gooderham Sr. (1830–1905) and his large family, taking nearly three years to complete. The home was designed in the Romanesque Revival style by architect David Roberts Jr., who also designed the Gooderham Building downtown.\n\nAfter George Gooderham Sr. died in May 1905, at the age of 75, his widow Harriet Gooderham (\"née\" Dean) sold the house and moved to a smaller home at 224 St. George Street. The York Club has owned the building since 1910.\n\n"}
