{"id": "54170944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54170944", "title": "Airfair (mobile app)", "text": "Airfair (mobile app)\n\nAirfair is a mobile travel application that checks flights and shows whether a traveler is owed compensation.\n\nAirFair was developed in 2016 by Allay Logic Ltd; a Newcastle-based tech-company.\n\nAirfair offers a free, no obligation flight check to see if compensation is owed. The app can reveal how much the person is owed within minutes whether the flight was delayed, cancelled or the traveler is refused boarding.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "14004021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14004021", "title": "Anovo", "text": "Anovo\n\nAnovo (formerly A Novo) is a computer services company based in Beauvais, France. It was founded in 1987, went public in 1999, and is currently a member of the CAC Small.\n\nIt won in the category 'Service and Repair' of the Mobile News Awards four years in a row, from 2007 to 2010.\n\nAs of November 2017, they have a score of 1.6 out of 10 on the TrustPilot ratings site, with 86% of reviewers giving the company the lowest possible rating. \n\n"}
{"id": "11438601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11438601", "title": "Battery indicator", "text": "Battery indicator\n\nA battery indicator (also known as a battery gauge) is a device which gives information about a battery. This will usually be a visual indication of the battery's state of charge. It is particularly important in the case of a battery electric vehicle.\n\nSome automobiles are fitted with a battery condition meter to monitor the starter battery. This meter is, essentially, a voltmeter but it may also be marked with coloured zones for easy visualization. \n\nMany newer cars no longer offer voltmeters or ammeters; instead, these vehicles typically have a light with the outline of an automotive battery on it. This can be somewhat misleading as it may be confused for an indicator of a bad battery when in reality it indicates a problem with the vehicle's charging system. \n\nAlternatively, an ammeter may be fitted. This indicates whether the battery is being charged or discharged. In the adjacent picture, the ammeter is marked \"Alternator\" and the symbols are \"C\" (charge) and \"D\" (discharge). \n\nBoth ammeters and voltmeters individually or together can be used to assess the operating state of an automobile battery and charging system.\n\nA battery indicator is a feature of many electronic devices. In mobile phones, the battery indicator usually takes the form of a bar graph - the more bars that are showing, the better the battery's state of charge.\n\nComputers may give a signal to users that an internal standby battery needs replacement. Portable computers using rechargeable batteries generally give the user some indication of the remaining operating time left on the battery. A Smart Battery System uses a controller integrated with an interchangeable battery pack to provide a more accurate indication of the state of battery charge. \n\nBatteries that are part of a system, such as computer batteries, can have their properties checked and logged in operation to assist in determining remaining charge. A real battery can be modeled as an ideal battery with a specified EMF, in series with an internal resistance. As a battery discharges, the EMF may drop or the internal resistance increase; in many cases the EMF remains more or less constant during most of the discharge, with the voltage drop across the internal resistance determining the voltage supplied. Determining the charge remaining in many battery types not connected to a system that monitors battery use is not reliably possible with a voltmeter. In battery types where EMF remains approximately constant during discharge, but resistance increases, voltage across battery terminals is not a good indicator of capacity. A meter such as an equivalent series resistance meter (ESR meter) normally used for measuring the ESR of electrolytic capacitors can be used to evaluate internal resistance. ESR meters fitted with protective diodes cannot be used, a battery will simply destroy the diodes and damage itself. An ESR meter known not to have diode protection will give a reading of internal resistance for a rechargeable or non-rechargeable battery of any size down to the smallest button cells which gives an indication of the state of charge. To use it, measurements on fully charged and fully discharged batteries of the same type can be used to determine resistances associated with those states.\n\nThe cost of an ESR meter makes it uneconomic for measuring battery voltages as its only function, but a meter used for cheeking capacitors can take on the additional duty.\n\n"}
{"id": "6782238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6782238", "title": "Bob Pease", "text": "Bob Pease\n\nRobert Allen Pease (August 22, 1940 – June 18, 2011) was an analog integrated circuit design expert and technical author. He designed several very successful \"best-seller\" integrated circuits, many of them in continuous production for multiple decades. These include the LM331 voltage-to-frequency converter, and the LM337 adjustable negative voltage regulator (complement to the LM317).\n\nPease was born on August 22, 1940 in Rockville, Connecticut. He attended Northfield Mount Hermon School in Massachusetts, and subsequently obtained a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (BSEE) degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1961.\n\nHe started work in the early 1960s at George A. Philbrick Researches (GAP-R). GAP-R pioneered the first reasonable-cost, mass-produced operational amplifier (op-amp), the K2-W. At GAP-R, Pease developed many high-performance op-amps, built with discrete solid-state components.\n\nIn 1976, Pease moved to National Semiconductor Corporation (NSC) as a designer and applications engineer, where he began designing analog monolithic integrated circuits, as well as design reference circuits using these devices. He had advanced to staff scientist by the time of his departure in 2009. During his tenure at NSC, he began writing a popular continuing monthly column called \"Pease Porridge\" in \"Electronic Design\" about his experiences in the world of electronic design and application.\n\nTHOR-LVX (photo-nuclear) microtron Advanced Explosives contraband Detection System: \"A Dual-Purpose Ion-Accelerator for Nuclear-Reaction-Based Explosives-and SNM-Detection in Massive Cargo\" was the last project he was designing for.\n\nPease was the author of eight books, including \"Troubleshooting Analog Circuits\", and held 21 patents.\n\nHis other interests included hiking and biking in remote places, and working on his old Volkswagen Beetle, which he often mentioned in his columns. Pease's writing was \"strongly opinionated, but he could communicate with a wry sense of humor that endeared him to readers whether they agreed with him or not\".\n\nPease was killed in the crash of his 1969 Volkswagen Beetle, on June 18, 2011. He was leaving a gathering in memory of Jim Williams, who was another well-known analog circuit designer, a technical author, and a renowned staff engineer working at Linear Technology. Pease was 70 years old, and was survived by his wife, two sons, and three grandchildren. The sudden death of Pease triggered a small flood of remembrances and tributes from fellow technical writers, practicing engineers, and electronics hardware hacking enthusiasts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2191884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2191884", "title": "CAVNET", "text": "CAVNET\n\nCAVNET was a secure military forum which became operational in April 2004. A part of SIPRNet, it allows fast access to knowledge acquired on the ground in combat.\n\nIt was used in Iraq, and helps US military forces against the insurgents' adaptive tactics by providing data laterally and on a broader scale than with traditional reports.\n\nThe data shared between patrols on \"The Net\" (as is it is sometimes referred to by soldiers) has already played a crucial role to dismantle grenade-traps hidden behind posters of Moqtada al-Sadr that US soldiers often rip down.\n\n"}
{"id": "19068374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19068374", "title": "CLidar", "text": "CLidar\n\nThe CLidar is a scientific instrument used for measuring particulates (aerosols) in the lower atmosphere. CLidar stands for camera lidar, which in turn is a portmanteau of \"light\" and \"radar\". It is a form of remote sensing and used for atmospheric physics. \n\nIn this technique a very wide-angle lens images light scattered from a laser beam onto a CCD (Charge-coupled device) camera. The camera is positioned hundreds of meters away from the (usually vertically-pointed) laser beam. The geometry of the CLidar is shown in the figure. It is important in the analysis that the optics, the wide-angle lens in this case, accurately maps equal angles onto an equal number of pixels throughout the 100 degree field-of-view.\n\nIn the second figure, an image from the CCD camera is shown which is analyzed by adding up the individual pixels at each altitude.The camera was 122 meters from the vertically pointed, circularly-polarized laser beam. The beam is brighter near the ground due to near-ground aerosols. A bright spot due to a cloud can be seen near the top of the beam. The beam was positioned diagonally on the CCD array to use the space more effectively. A lighthouse and power pole can also be seen in the image.\n\nThe CLidar technique has the advantage over the lidar technique of being able to measure all the way to the ground. The signal strength is also much more constant than a lidar signal which can change by many orders of magnitude. It has very high altitude resolution in the lower atmosphere. The instrument components are typically simpler than those in the lidar also. \n\nDisadvantages include poor altitude resolution in the upper atmosphere, difficulty designing optics that gathers substantial amounts of light, and a loss in noise rejection (signal-to-noise ratio).\n\n"}
{"id": "42297141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42297141", "title": "Capacity loss", "text": "Capacity loss\n\nCapacity loss or capacity fading is a phenomenon observed in rechargeable battery usage where the amount of charge a battery can deliver at the rated voltage decreases with use.\n\nIn 2003 it was reported the typical range of capacity loss in lithium-ion batteries after 500 charging and discharging cycles varied from 12.4% to 24.1%, giving an average capacity loss per cycle range of 0.025–0.048% per cycle.\n\n"}
{"id": "36395576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36395576", "title": "Carbon Recycling International", "text": "Carbon Recycling International\n\nCarbon Recycling International - CRI hf. (CRI) is an Icelandic limited liability company which has developed a technology designed to produce renewable methanol from carbon dioxide and hydrogen, using water electrolysis or, alternatively, hydrogen captured from industrial waste gases. The technology is trademarked by CRI as Emissions-to-Liquids (ETL) and the renewable methanol produced by CRI is trademarked as Vulcanol. In 2011 CRI became the first company to produce and sell liquid renewable transport fuel produced using only carbon dioxide, water and electricity from renewable sources. \n\nCRI, incorporated in 2006, was founded by Fridrik Jonsson, Art Shulenberger, Oddur Ingolfsson, and KC Tran. In addition to Icelandic individuals and funds, investors include Canadian multinational methanol supplier and distributor Methanex and Chinese multinational automotive manufacturing company Geely.\n\nCRI's first commercial scale plant, the George Olah Plant (named after George Andrew Olah, the 1994 Nobel Prize Laureate in chemstiry), was completed in 2011. CRI is currently working on several new projects in parallel, including in a EU Horizon 2020 research programme funded MefCO2 consortium to build a renewable methanol demonstration plant in Germany and in the FreSME consortium to build a renewable methanol demonstration plant in Sweden. \n\nRenewable methanol can be used as a fuel, chemical feedstock or blended with gasoline. Fuels which are produced partially or fully from methanol include biodiesel, dimethyl ether or oxymethylene ether, as well as synthetic gasoline from the Mobil methanol-to-gasoline (MTG) process. Gasoline blends range from 3% methanol, which is allowed in European standard gasoline, to 56% methanol, a blend for flexible fuel vehicles. CRI has run fleet tests with a range of lower blends and higher blend options in cars from different manufacturers, including 100% methanol in special flexible fuel vehicles manufactured by Geely. Renewable methanol is compatible with internal combustion engines as well as methanol fuel cells. \n\nProduction of renewable methanol does not depend on agricultural resources, as hydrogen and carbon dioxide are the primary inputs. CRI's emissions-to-liquids production process is based on three main modules, carbon dioxide purification, hydrogen generation and the methanol synthesis and purification system. The catalytic conversion process from hydrogen and carbon dioxide occurs in one step, while production of methanol from fossil fuels, such as natural gas or coal, involves several reforming steps to obtain syngas followed by the catalytic step. \n\nThe George Olah Plant, or the GO Plant, has a name-plate capacity of 5 million liters per year. It is located close to the Blue Lagoon spa facility and HS Orka's Svartsengi power station. The plant can capture and utilize around 10% of the carbon dioxide emitted by the Svartsengi power station.\n\nThe European Union's renewable energy directive recognizes renewable methanol as a renewable transport fuel from non-biological sources, which means that it can be used as an advanced renewable transport fuel under the EU's renewable fuel blending mandates.\n\nCarbon dioxide is a major cause of global warming. By removing carbon dioxide from industrial emissions, CRI's process helps to mitigate climate change. Renewable methanol burns cleanly as a fuel and substituting renewable methanol for gasoline and diesel fuels reduces urban emissions of particulate matter, sulphur oxides (SOx) and nitrous oxides (NOx).\n\nCRI's process can also be used to store energy in the form of methanol, especially in cases where the energy source is intermittent. For example, wind and solar power are intermittently available. Methanol is also a good energy carrier. As a liquid fuel it is easier and cheaper to store and transport than hydrogen or methane.\n\nCRI plans to implement standardized CSPs (commercial scale plants), each with a capacity of at least 50,000 tons of methanol production per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2336845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336845", "title": "Chemical Agent Resistant Coating", "text": "Chemical Agent Resistant Coating\n\nChemical Agent Resistant Coating is a paint commonly applied to military vehicles to provide protection against chemical and biological weapons.\n\nThe surface of the paint is engineered to be easily decontaminated after exposure to chemical warfare and biological warfare agents. The paint is also resistant to damage and removal by decontaminating solutions. Two-component systems (e.g. epoxy or polyester-based) are often employed. This coating is described in MIL-DTL-53072E.\n\nAs of 2018, the U.S. Army Research Laboratory (ARL) led research and development activity for CARC and was the approving authority of CARC products for the Department of Defense (DoD).\n\nSince 1985, U.S. Army Regulation 750-1 mandated the use of CARC systems on all tactical equipment. Regulations mandated the hardening of equipment (i.e. ground support equipment, tactical wheeled vehicles, and aircraft) against the impacts of chemical attacks and subsequent cleaning agents following contamination. These same regulations were followed by the Marine Corps and Air Force.\n\nAs of 1985, most military vehicles and equipment were painted with camouflaged CARCs. These topcoats produced a non-porous finish that acted as a protectant against radioactive, biological and chemical contamination. CARC repelled chemical by preventing absorption, with chemicals beading up on the finish surface where they could be washed away.\n\nCARC coatings were also used by government contractors who refurbish vehicles and parts for the U.S. military. Examples included Light Armored Vehicles (LAVs), High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicles (HMMWV), generators, containers and shelter exteriors.\n\nSolvent-borne CARCs were developed in the early 1980s. The impetus for CARC development was the need to protect costly military equipment. Operation Desert Storm further increased concern of the potential for chemical attacks.\n\nSince 2000, high-performance water-reducible CARCs were commonly used. These materials met DoD’s VOC objective of 1.8 lb/gal and contained no hazardous air pollutants.\n\nThe impetus for improved CARC formulations was to reduce the cost of material degradation for the DoD. An improved topcoat was composed to have 44% primary pigments and inorganic extenders, 24% resins, 30% solvent, and 2% additives. Formulations changed from inorganic to polymeric-based extenders in to enhance the protective features of the topcoat and reduce the cost of material degradation. Additionally, air pollution regulations required reformulation of the coating’s solvent content to reduce the emission of hazardous air pollutants.\n\nAs of 2000, two different CARC topcoats included:\n\n1) One-component, moisture-cure urethane (MCU): MCU CARCs cured in a two-stage process where water and isocyanate groups combined to produce a cured paint film. The materials were designed for resistance to windblown dust, sand and chemical agents. An improvement to solvent-borne polyurethanes, MCU materials offered both lower levels of volatile organic compounds and elimination of hazardous air pollutants.\n\n2) Two-component, high-performance, water-reducible polyurethane: Waterbased CARCs, most commonly used by the military, were composed of water-reducible polyurethane resins, marking the first time a water-based two-component CARC was commercially available. This formulation eliminated several solvents, including methyl isobutyl ketone, toluene and xylene. Citation\n"}
{"id": "6135863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6135863", "title": "Claas Cougar", "text": "Claas Cougar\n\nThe Claas Cougar is a self-propelled mower produced by the German agricultural machinery manufacturer Claas. The mower, which is named after the cougar, a large American cat, was first presented in 2003. Due to its maximum cutting width of it is classified as the largest self-propelled mower in the world.\n\nThe base model \"Cougar 1400\" is available in different equipment variants. Generally the 4WD machine has four large wheels of equal size, it has a four-wheel steering system and also features crab steering mode. The special purpose tractor-like vehicle has a travel length of , and a travel height of about . Its road transport width depends on tire dimensions, and takes up from just .\n\nThe machine has a Daimler (Chrysler)/Mercedes-Benz OM 457 LA 6-cylinder diesel engine with a maximum output of . The fuel tank can hold up to of diesel fuel. The Cougar's weight is – depending on equipment and the amount of loaded fuel – approximately . The machine operates at speeds up to , or up to while moving between fields on roads.\n\nFive pendulum suspended mowing units are fitted to every Claas Cougar, a triple combination at the front and one outrigger unit on each side in the middle of the machine. The two side mowers are mounted on telescoping booms between the axles. Each mowing unit can be individually controlled and maneuvered up, down, left, and right in order to mow narrow plots or smaller areas with less than five mowers, to adjust the mowers to uneven ground, and to help the operator avoid encountering obstacles. Additionally the Cougar is equipped with active hydropneumatic mower unit balancing, and the two outrigger units are equipped with hydraulic collision protection devices; they automatically swing back when they meet with obstacles. \n\nWith its five mowers the Claas Cougar can cut at widths up to , and it has a working capacity of up to per hour.\n\nTo fold the mower decks for transport and to unfold them into operating position Claas uses a special hydraulic folding design. For road transport the Cougar's cab is rotated 180°, so that the lifted and folded front and side mowers are located at the vehicle's rear then. Both, folding and cab rotating operations, are automatically managed and can easily be activated by the driver from within the cab. They only take a few seconds or minutes.\nThe cab is air-conditioned and has airride seats, each window has its own wiper. \n\nThe \"Cougar 1400\", equipped with five Claas disc mower units per default, was first presented at Agritechnica 2003 in Germany and was awarded \"Machine of the Year\" there. At SIMA 2005 in Paris, it was awarded a silver medal.\n\nIn 2006, Claas presented a Cougar 1400 fitted with five flail mowers (mulching units) instead of disc mowers. The machine has a working width of then, and can be used e.g. for mulching corn stubble. The flail mower supplier Spearhead Machinery (based in Salford Priors, England) calls the combination \"Trident 12600 HD\". This naming follows other models of their \"Trident\" range of flail mowers. The five Trident decks for the Cougar have a weight of .\n\nAlso, Claas added roller conditioners to the Cougar lineup. The mowing units of the \"Cougar 1400RC\" are equipped with roller conditioners, whereas the mowers of the \"Cougar 1400C\" have tine (roller) conditioners.\n\nThe Claas Cougar was featured in season 10 of the UK television magazine Fifth Gear, on October 30, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "732746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732746", "title": "Conductive polymer", "text": "Conductive polymer\n\nConductive polymers or, more precisely, intrinsically conducting polymers (ICPs) are organic polymers that conduct electricity. Such compounds may have metallic conductivity or can be semiconductors. The biggest advantage of conductive polymers is their processability, mainly by dispersion. Conductive polymers are generally not thermoplastics, \"i.e.\", they are not thermoformable. But, like insulating polymers, they are organic materials. They can offer high electrical conductivity but do not show similar mechanical properties to other commercially available polymers. The electrical properties can be fine-tuned using the methods of organic synthesis and by advanced dispersion techniques.\n\nPolyaniline was first described in the mid-19th century by Henry Letheby, who investigated the electrochemical and chemical oxidation products of aniline in acidic media. He noted that reduced form was colourless but the oxidized forms were deep blue.\n\nThe first highly-conductive organic compounds were the charge transfer complexes. In the 1950s, researchers reported that polycyclic aromatic compounds formed semi-conducting charge-transfer complex salts with halogens. In 1954, researchers at Bell Labs and elsewhere reported organic charge transfer complexes with resistivities as low as 8 ohms-cm. In the early 1970s, researchers demonstrated salts of tetrathiafulvalene show almost metallic conductivity, while superconductivity was demonstrated in 1980. Broad research on charge transfer salts continues today. While these compounds were technically not polymers, this indicated that organic compounds can carry current. While organic conductors were previously intermittently discussed, the field was particularly energized by the prediction of superconductivity following the discovery of BCS theory.\n\nIn 1963 Australians B.A. Bolto, D.E. Weiss, and coworkers reported derivatives of polypyrrole with resistivities as low as 1 ohm·cm. cites multiple reports of similar high-conductivity oxidized polyacetylenes. With the notable exception of charge transfer complexes (some of which are even superconductors), organic molecules were previously considered insulators or at best weakly conducting semiconductors. Subsequently, DeSurville and coworkers reported high conductivity in a polyaniline. Likewise, in 1980, Diaz and Logan reported films of polyaniline that can serve as electrodes.\n\nWhile mostly operating in the quantum realm of less than 100 nanometers, \"molecular\" electronic processes can collectively manifest on a macro scale. Examples include quantum tunneling, negative resistance, phonon-assisted hopping and polarons. In 1977, Alan J. Heeger, Alan MacDiarmid and Hideki Shirakawa reported similar high conductivity in oxidized iodine-doped polyacetylene. For this research, they were awarded the 2000 Nobel Prize in Chemistry \"for the discovery and development of conductive polymers.\" Polyacetylene itself did not find practical applications, but drew the attention of scientists and encouraged the rapid growth of the field. Since the late 1980s, organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) have emerged as an important application of conducting polymers.\n\nLinear-backbone \"polymer blacks\" (polyacetylene, polypyrrole, polyindole and polyaniline) and their copolymers are the main class of conductive polymers. Poly(p-phenylene vinylene) (PPV) and its soluble derivatives have emerged as the prototypical electroluminescent semiconducting polymers. Today, poly(3-alkylthiophenes) are the archetypical materials for solar cells and transistors.\n\nThe following table presents some organic conductive polymers according to their composition. The well-studied classes are written in bold and \"the less well studied ones are in italic\".\n\nConductive polymers are prepared by many methods. Most conductive polymers are prepared by oxidative coupling of monocyclic precursors. Such reactions entail dehydrogenation:\nThe low solubility of most polymers presents challenges. Some researchers add solubilizing functional groups to some or all monomers to increase solubility. Others address this through the formation of nanostructures and surfactant-stabilized conducting polymer dispersions in water. These include polyaniline nanofibers and PEDOT:PSS. In many cases, the molecular weight of conductive polymers are lower than conventional polymers such as polyethylene. However, in some cases, the molecular weight need not be high to achieve the desired properties.\n\nThe conductivity of such polymers is the result of several processes. For example, in traditional polymers such as polyethylenes, the valence electrons are bound in sp hybridized covalent bonds. Such \"sigma-bonding electrons\" have low mobility and do not contribute to the electrical conductivity of the material. However, in conjugated materials, the situation is completely different. Conducting polymers have backbones of contiguous sp hybridized carbon centers. One valence electron on each center resides in a p orbital, which is orthogonal to the other three sigma-bonds. All the p orbitals combine with each other to a molecule wide delocalized set of orbitals. The electrons in these delocalized orbitals have high mobility when the material is \"doped\" by oxidation, which removes some of these delocalized electrons. Thus, the conjugated p-orbitals form a one-dimensional electronic band, and the electrons within this band become mobile when it is partially emptied. The band structures of conductive polymers can easily be calculated with a tight binding model. In principle, these same materials can be doped by reduction, which adds electrons to an otherwise unfilled band. In practice, most organic conductors are doped oxidatively to give p-type materials. The redox doping of organic conductors is analogous to the doping of silicon semiconductors, whereby a small fraction silicon atoms are replaced by electron-rich, \"e.g.\", phosphorus, or electron-poor, \"e.g.\", boron, atoms to create n-type and p-type semiconductors, respectively.\n\nAlthough typically \"doping\" conductive polymers involves oxidizing or reducing the material, conductive organic polymers associated with a protic solvent may also be \"self-doped.\"\n\nUndoped conjugated polymers state are semiconductors or insulators. In such compounds, the energy gap can be > 2 eV, which is too great for thermally activated conduction. Therefore, undoped conjugated polymers, such as polythiophenes, polyacetylenes only have a low electrical conductivity of around 10 to 10 S/cm. Even at a very low level of doping (< 1%), electrical conductivity increases several orders of magnitude up to values of around 0.1 S/cm. Subsequent doping of the conducting polymers will result in a saturation of the conductivity at values around 0.1–10 kS/cm for different polymers. Highest values reported up to now are for the conductivity of stretch oriented polyacetylene with confirmed values of about 80 kS/cm. Although the pi-electrons in polyacetylene are delocalized along the chain, pristine polyacetylene is not a metal. Polyacetylene has alternating single and double bonds which have lengths of 1.44 and 1.36 Å, respectively. Upon doping, the bond alteration is diminished in conductivity increases. Non-doping increases in conductivity can also be accomplished in a field effect transistor (organic FET or OFET) and by irradiation. Some materials also exhibit negative differential resistance and voltage-controlled \"switching\" analogous to that seen in inorganic amorphous semiconductors.\n\nDespite intensive research, the relationship between morphology, chain structure and conductivity is still poorly understood. Generally, it is assumed that conductivity should be higher for the higher degree of crystallinity and better alignment of the chains, however this could not be confirmed for polyaniline and was only recently confirmed for PEDOT, which are largely amorphous.\n\nDue to their poor processability, conductive polymers have few large-scale applications. They have promise in antistatic materials and they have been incorporated into commercial displays and batteries, but there have been limitations due to the manufacturing costs, material inconsistencies, toxicity, poor solubility in solvents, and inability to directly melt process. Literature suggests they are also promising in organic solar cells, printing electronic circuits, organic light-emitting diodes, actuators, electrochromism, supercapacitors, chemical sensors and biosensors, flexible transparent displays, electromagnetic shielding and possibly replacement for the popular transparent conductor indium tin oxide. Another use is for microwave-absorbent coatings, particularly radar-absorptive coatings on stealth aircraft. Conducting polymers are rapidly gaining attraction in new applications with increasingly processable materials with better electrical and physical properties and lower costs. The new nano-structured forms of conducting polymers particularly, augment this field with their higher surface area and better dispersability. Research reports showed that nanostructured conducting polymers in the form of nanofibers and nanosponges, showed significantly improved capacitance values as compared to their non-nanostructured counterparts.\n\nWith the availability of stable and reproducible dispersions, PEDOT and polyaniline have gained some large-scale applications. While PEDOT (poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene)) is mainly used in antistatic applications and as a transparent conductive layer in form of PEDOT:PSS dispersions (PSS=polystyrene sulfonic acid), polyaniline is widely used for printed circuit board manufacturing – in the final finish, for protecting copper from corrosion and preventing its solderability. Moreover, Polyindole is also starting to gain attention for various applications due to its high redox activity, thermal stability, and slow degradation properties than competitors polyaniline and polypyrrole.\nElectroluminescence is light emission stimulated by electric current. In organic compounds, electroluminescence has been known since the early 1950s, when Bernanose and coworkers first produced electroluminescence in crystalline thin films of acridine orange and quinacrine. In 1960, researchers at Dow Chemical developed AC-driven electroluminescent cells using doping. In some cases, similar light emission is observed when a voltage is applied to a thin layer of a conductive organic polymer film. While electroluminescence was originally mostly of academic interest, the increased conductivity of modern conductive polymers means enough power can be put through the device at low voltages to generate practical amounts of light. This property has led to the development of flat panel displays using organic LEDs, solar panels, and optical amplifiers.\n\nSince most conductive polymers require oxidative doping, the properties of the resulting state are crucial. Such materials are salt-like (polymer salt), which diminishes their solubility in organic solvents and water and hence their processability. Furthermore, the charged organic backbone is often unstable towards atmospheric moisture. The poor processability for many polymers requires the introduction of solubilizing or substituents, which can further complicate the synthesis.\n\nExperimental and theoretical thermodynamical evidence suggests that conductive polymers may even be completely and principally insoluble so that they can only be processed by dispersion.\n\nMost recent emphasis is on organic light emitting diodes and organic polymer solar cells. The Organic Electronics Association is an international platform to promote applications of organic semiconductors. Conductive polymer products with embedded and improved electromagnetic interference (EMI) and electrostatic discharge (ESD) protection have led to both prototypes and products. For example, Polymer Electronics Research Center at University of Auckland is developing a range of novel DNA sensor technologies based on conducting polymers, photoluminescent polymers and inorganic nanocrystals (quantum dots) for simple, rapid and sensitive gene detection. Typical conductive polymers must be \"doped\" to produce high conductivity. As of 2001, there remains to be discovered an organic polymer that is \"intrinsically\" electrically conducting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1226927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1226927", "title": "Digital currency", "text": "Digital currency\n\nDigital currency (digital money, electronic money or electronic currency) is a type of currency available in digital form (in contrast to physical, such as banknotes and coins). It exhibits properties similar to physical currencies, but can allow for instantaneous transactions and borderless transfer-of-ownership. Examples include virtual currencies and cryptocurrencies and central bank issued money accounted for in a computer database (including digital base money). Like traditional money, these currencies may be used to buy physical goods and services, but may also be restricted to certain communities such as for use inside an online game or social network.\n\nDigital currency is a money balance recorded electronically on a stored-value card or other devices. Another form of electronic money is network money, allowing the transfer of value on computer networks, particularly the Internet. Electronic money is also a claim on a private bank or other financial institution such as bank deposits.\n\nDigital money can either be centralized, where there is a central point of control over the money supply, or decentralized, where the control over the money supply can come from various sources.\n\nIn 1983, a research paper by David Chaum introduced the idea of digital cash. In 1990, he founded DigiCash, an electronic cash company, in Amsterdam to commercialize the ideas in his research. It filed for bankruptcy in 1998. In 1999, Chaum left the company.\n\nIn 1997, Coca-Cola offered buying from vending machines using mobile payments. After that PayPal emerged in 1998. Other systems followed suit, such as e-gold, but it faced issues because it was used by criminals and was closed by U.S Department of Justice in 2005. In 2008, bitcoin was introduced, which marked the start of digital currencies.\n\nOrigins of digital currencies date back to the 1990s Dot-com bubble. One of the first was E-gold, founded in 1996 and backed by gold. Another known digital currency service was Liberty Reserve, founded in 2006; it lets users convert dollars or euros to Liberty Reserve Dollars or Euros, and exchange them freely with one another at a 1% fee. Both services were centralized, reputed to be used for money laundering, and inevitably shut down by the U.S. government. Q coins or QQ coins, were used as a type of commodity-based digital currency on Tencent QQ's messaging platform and emerged in early 2005. Q coins were so effective in China that they were said to have had a destabilizing effect on the Chinese Yuan currency due to speculation. Recent interest in cryptocurrencies has prompted renewed interest in digital currencies, with bitcoin, introduced in 2008, becoming the most widely used and accepted digital currency.\n\nAccording to the European Central Bank's 2015 \"Virtual currency schemes – a further analysis\" report, virtual currency is a digital representation of value, not issued by a central bank, credit institution or e-money institution, which, in some circumstances, can be used as an alternative to money. In the previous report of October 2012, the virtual currency was defined as a type of unregulated, digital money, which is issued and usually controlled by its developers, and used and accepted among the members of a specific virtual community.\n\nAccording to the Bank for International Settlements' November 2015 \"Digital currencies\" report, it is an asset represented in digital form and having some monetary characteristics. Digital currency can be denominated to a sovereign currency and issued by the issuer responsible to redeem digital money for cash. In that case, digital currency represents electronic money (e-money). Digital currency denominated in its own units of value or with decentralized or automatic issuance will be considered as a virtual currency.\n\nAs such, bitcoin is a digital currency but also a type of virtual currency. Bitcoin and its alternatives are based on cryptographic algorithms, so these kinds of virtual currencies are also called cryptocurrencies.\n\nMost of the traditional money supply is bank money held on computers. This is also considered digital currency. One could argue that our increasingly cashless society means that all currencies are becoming digital, but they are not presented to us as such.\n\nCurrency can be exchanged electronically using debit cards and credit cards using electronic funds transfer at point of sale.\n\nA number of electronic money systems use contactless payment transfer in order to facilitate easy payment and give the payee more confidence in not letting go of their electronic wallet during the transaction.\n\nA cryptocurrency is a type of digital asset that relies on cryptography for chaining together digital signatures of asset transfers, peer-to-peer networking and decentralization.\nIn some cases a proof-of-work or proof-of-stake scheme is used to create and manage the currency.\n\nCryptocurrencies allow electronic money systems to be decentralized. The first and most popular system is bitcoin, a peer-to-peer electronic monetary system based on cryptography.\n\nA virtual currency has been defined in 2012 by the European Central Bank as \"a type of unregulated, digital money, which is issued and usually controlled by its developers, and used and accepted among the members of a specific virtual community\". The US Department of Treasury in 2013 defined it more tersely as \"a medium of exchange that operates like a currency in some environments, but does not have all the attributes of real currency\". The key attribute a virtual currency does not have according to these definitions, is the status as legal tender.\n\nSince 2001, the European Union has implemented the E-Money Directive \"on the taking up, pursuit and prudential supervision of the business of electronic money institutions\" last amended in 2009. Doubts on the real nature of EU electronic money have arisen, since calls have been made in connection with the 2007 EU Payment Services Directive in favor of merging payment institutions and electronic money institutions. Such a merger could mean that electronic money is of the same nature as bank money or scriptural money.\n\nIn the United States, electronic money is governed by Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code for wholesale transactions and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act for consumer transactions. Provider's responsibility and consumer's liability are regulated under Regulation E.\n\nVirtual currencies pose challenges for central banks, financial regulators, departments or ministries of finance, as well as fiscal authorities and statistical authorities.\n\nOn March 20, 2013, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued a guidance to clarify how the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act applied to persons creating, exchanging, and transmitting virtual currencies.\n\nIn May 2014 the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) \"warned about the hazards of bitcoin and other virtual currencies\".\n\nIn July 2014, the New York State Department of Financial Services proposed the most comprehensive regulation of virtual currencies to date, commonly called BitLicense. Unlike the US federal regulators it has gathered input from bitcoin supporters and the financial industry through public hearings and a comment period until 21 October 2014 to customize the rules. The proposal per NY DFS press release “sought to strike an appropriate balance that helps protect consumers and root out illegal activity\". It has been criticized by smaller companies to favor established institutions, and Chinese bitcoin exchanges have complained that the rules are \"overly broad in its application outside the United States\".\n\nAs of 2016, over 24 countries are investing in distributed ledger technologies (DLT) with $1.4bn in investments. In addition, over 90 central banks are engaged in DLT discussions, including implications of a central bank issued digital currency.\nIn March 2018, the Marshall Islands became the first country to issue their own cryptocurrency and certify it as legal tender; the currency is called the \"sovereign\".\n\nCanada\n\nThe Bank of Canada have explored the possibility of creating a version of its currency on the blockchain.\n\nThe Bank of Canada teamed up with the nation’s five largest banks — and the blockchain consulting firm R3 — for what was known as Project Jasper. In a simulation run in 2016, the central bank issued CAD-Coins onto a blockchain similar Ethereum. The banks used the CAD-Coins to exchange money the way they do at the end of each day to settle their master accounts.\n\nChina\n\nA deputy governor at the central bank of China, Fan Yifei, wrote that \"the conditions are ripe for digital currencies, which can reduce operating costs, increase efficiency and enable a wide range of new applications\". According to Fan Yifei, the best way to take advantage of the situation is for central banks to take the lead, both in supervising private digital currencies and in developing digital legal tender of their own.\n\nDenmark\n\nThe Danish government proposed getting rid of the obligation for selected retailers to accept payment in cash, moving the country closer to a \"cashless\" economy. The Danish Chamber of Commerce is backing the move. Nearly a third of the Danish population uses MobilePay, a smartphone application for transferring money.\n\nEcuador\n\nA law passed by the National Assembly of Ecuador gives the government permission to make payments in electronic currency and proposes the creation of a national digital currency. \"Electronic money will stimulate the economy; it will be possible to attract more Ecuadorian citizens, especially those who do not have checking or savings accounts and credit cards alone. The electronic currency will be backed by the assets of the Central Bank of Ecuador\", the National Assembly said in a statement. In December 2015, Sistema de Dinero Electrónico (\"electronic money system\") was launched, making Ecuador the first country with a state-run electronic payment system.\n\nGermany\n\nThe German central bank is testing a functional prototype for the blockchain technology-based settlement of securities and transfer of centrally-issued digital coins.\n\nNetherlands\n\nThe Dutch central bank is experimenting with a bitcoin-based virtual currency called “DNBCoin”.\n\nIndia\n\nUnified Payments Interface (UPI) is an instant real-time payment system developed by National Payments Corporation of India facilitating inter-bank transactions. The interface is regulated by the Reserve Bank of India and works by instantly transferring funds between two bank accounts on a mobile platform.\nUPI is built over Immediate Payment Service(IMPS) for transferring funds. Being a digital payment system it is available 24*7 and across public holidays. Unlike traditional mobile wallets, which takes a specified amount of money from user and stores it in its own accounts, UPI withdraws and deposits funds directly from the bank account whenever a transaction is requested. It uses Virtual Payment Address (a unique ID provided by the bank), Account Number with IFS Code, Mobile Number with MMID (Mobile Money Identifier), Aadhaar Number, or a one-time use Virtual ID. An UPI-PIN (UPI Personal Identification number that one creates on the UPI app of the bank) is required to confirm each payment.\n\nRussia\n\nGovernment-controlled Sberbank of Russia owns Yandex.Money – electronic payment service and digital currency of the same name.\nRussia’s President Vladimir Putin has signed off on regulation of ICOs and cryptocurrency mining by July 2018.\n\nSouth Korea\n\nSouth Korea plans national digital currency using a Blockchain. The chairman of South Korea’s Financial Services Commission (FSC), Yim Jong-yong, announced that his department will \"Lay the systemic groundwork for the spread of digital currency.\" South Korea has already announced plans to discontinue coins by the year 2020.\n\nSweden\n\nSweden is in the process of replacing all of its physical banknotes, and most of its coins by mid-2017. However, the new banknotes and coins of the Swedish krona will probably be circulating at about half the 2007 peak of 12,494 kronor per capita. The Riksbank is planning to begin discussions of an electronic currency issued by the central bank to which \"is not to replace cash, but to act as complement to it\". Deputy Governor Cecilia Skingsley states that cash will continue to spiral out of use in Sweden, and while it is currently fairly easy to get cash in Sweden, it is often very difficult to deposit it into bank accounts, especially in rural areas. No decision has been currently made about the decision to create \"e-krona\". In her speech, Skingsley states: \"The first question is whether e-krona should be booked in accounts or whether the ekrona should be some form of a digitally transferable unit that does not need an underlying account structure, roughly like cash.\" Skingsley also states: \"Another important question is whether the Riksbank should issue e-krona directly to the general public or go via the banks, as we do now with banknotes and coins.\" Other questions will be addressed like interest rates, should they be positive, negative, or zero?\n\nSwitzerland\n\nIn 2016, a city government first accepted digital currency in payment of city fees. Zug, Switzerland, added bitcoin as a means of paying small amounts, up to , in a test and an attempt to advance Zug as a region that is advancing future technologies. In order to reduce risk, Zug immediately converts any bitcoin received into the Swiss currency.Swiss Federal Railways, government-owned railway company of Switzerland, sells bitcoins at its ticket machines.\n\nUK\n\nThe Chief Scientific Adviser to the UK government advised his Prime Minister and Parliament to consider using a blockchain-based digital currency.\n\nThe chief economist of Bank of England, the central bank of the United Kingdom, proposed abolition of paper currency. The Bank has also taken an interest in bitcoin. In 2016 it has embarked on a multi-year research programme to explore the implications of a central bank issued digital currency. The Bank of England has produced several research papers on the topic. One suggests that the economic benefits of issuing a digital currency on a distributed ledger could add as much as 3 percent to a country's economic output. The Bank said that it wanted the next version of the bank’s basic software infrastructure to be compatible with distributed ledgers.\n\nUkraine\n\nThe National Bank of Ukraine is considering a creation of its own issuance/turnover/servicing system for a blockchain-based national cryptocurrency. The regulator also announced that blockchain could be a part of a national project called \"Cashless Economy\".\n\nGovernment attitude dictates the tendency among established heavy financial actors that both are risk-averse and conservative. None of these offered services around cryptocurrencies and much of the criticism came from them.\n\nThe first mover among these has been Fidelity Investments, Boston based Fidelity Digital Assets LLC will provide enterprise-grade custody solutions, a cryptocurrency trading execution platform and institutional advising services 24 hours a day, seven days a week designed to align with blockchain's always-on trading cycle\". It will work with Bitcoin and Ethereum with general availability scheduled for 2019.\n\nHard electronic currency does not have the ability to be disputed or reversed when used. It is nearly impossible to reverse a transaction, justified or not. It is very similar to cash. Advantages of this system include it being cheaper to operate, and transactions are instantaneous. Western Union, KlickEx and Bitcoin are examples of this type of currency.\n\nSoft electronic currencies are the opposite of hard electronic currencies. Payments can be reversed. Usually, when a payment is reversed there is a \"clearing time.\" This can take 72 hours or more. Examples of soft currencies are PayPal and any type of credit card. A hard currency can be \"softened\" with a third party service.\n\nMany existing digital currencies have not yet seen widespread usage, and may not be easily used or exchanged. Banks generally do not accept or offer services for them. There are concerns that cryptocurrencies are extremely risky due to their very high volatility and potential for pump and dump schemes. Regulators in several countries have warned against their use and some have taken concrete regulatory measures to dissuade users. The non-cryptocurrencies are all centralized. As such, they may be shut down or seized by a government at any time. The more anonymous a currency is, the more attractive it is to criminals, regardless of the intentions of its creators. \"Forbes\" writer Tim Worstall has written that the value of bitcoin is largely derived from speculative trading. Bitcoin has also been criticised for its energy inefficient SHA-256-based proof of work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46465963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46465963", "title": "Global Entrepreneurs Network", "text": "Global Entrepreneurs Network\n\nGlobal Entrepreneurs Network (@GEN) was the world's first web hosting and e-commerce hosting provider, founded by Thomas Heimann in 1994. The company merged in late 1998 with Sage Network (later Interliant - INIT).\n\nEarly History\n\nThomas Heimann was an early online entrepreneur marketing his \"Computer Profits\" and \"All-in-One Electronic Marketing Kit\" which were two products that taught entrepreneurs how to use Usenet/News Groups for online marketing. He came to the realization that the World Wide Web would become the \"Great Equalizer\" and de facto platform for online commerce. In his attempts to set up a web presence for his own marketing business he realized that the few companies that were selling web servers and offering web related services to businesses at the time were simply too expensive for entrepreneurs and small businesses, with the least expensive solution cobbled together at the time costing in excess of $5,000.00.\n\nIn late 1994 Thomas met (online) Rich Skrenta, an engineer with Novel at the time, and the two discussed what it would take to provide simple web hosting and email solutions, as well as domain registration services, and the two reached an arrangement that gave birth to the Global Entrepreneurs Network (GEN). GEN – using the initial domain of Entrepreneurs.net – purchased a Unix Server to be hosted by Rich Skrenta in his basement, and GEN would pay Rich Skrenta a one-time fee of $50 for every domain registered and account set up on the server. Rich wrote a number of Perl scripts to automate domain registration and account setup, and Global Entrepreneurs Network officially opened doors as a membership organization offering two membership plans: Standard Membership at $49/month or $249/year and full-service membership at $99/month or $895/year. Each membership plan included a domain registration, with 5 email addresses and a 5 MB website for standard members and unlimited email addresses and 100 MB website for full-service members.\n\nSince the domain registration process at the time was entirely free, GEN became the first company to offer free domain registration via a web-based order form that in turn connected to the scripts Rich Skrenta created to automate the registration process with InterNIC.\n\nOriginally GEN was started in Thomas Heimann's two-bedroom apartment with a handful of early day employees, most of which worked 'practically free' just for the excitement of being part of something \"big\". In late 1995 GEN was able to secure a sublease at below markt rates for class A office space at 100 N Tampa Street in downtown Tampa, where the company would remain for the next two years.\n\n\nIn 1995 GEN hired Raymond Karrenbauer, who became instrumental in designing the first Microsoft IIS-based web server farm, which was a strategic decision that led to GEN becoming the first web hosting provider to offer Microsoft Frontpage hosting in 1996 upon Microsoft's launch of the product, with its $9.95/month Start Smart Frontpage hosting plan.\n\nIn 1996 GEN reached an agreement with America Online (AOL) and created an 'All in One' eBusiness CD ROM that provided Internet access via AOL, combined with online signup for GEN's hosting services and MS Frontpage software. GEN would introduce the eBusiness CD ROM and its various other programs at the 2007 CEBIT in Hannover Germany.\n\nIn 1998 GEN reached an agreement with iMall, at the time the leading provider of online mall services, and CardService to facilitate online storefronts and credit card processing for its full-service membership customers.\n\nGEN was at the time the world's largest web hosting and ecommerce provider, with over 35,000 customers and domains hosted in over 50 countries. GEN maintained offices in Cologne, Germany, as well as outside of Canberra, Australia, in addition to its Florida headquarters.\n\n\n\nIn late 1998, GEN International, Inc (GEN - Global Entrepreneurs Network) was acquired by/merged with Sage Networks, which later renamed to Interliant, prior to its IPO.\n\nA late archive of GEN's website can be found at: https://web.archive.org/web/19990125090109/http://home.gen.com/\n"}
{"id": "17610070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17610070", "title": "Ida Henrietta Hyde", "text": "Ida Henrietta Hyde\n\nIda Henrietta Hyde (September 8, 1857 – August 22, 1945) was an American physiologist known for developing a micro-electrode powerful enough to stimulate tissue chemically or electronically, yet small enough to inject or remove tissue from a cell. Ida was never married and agnostic in her religious standing. She retired at the age in 63 in the year 1920. After her retirement, Ida traveled to several places, including Switzerland, Austria, Egypt, India, and several locations in Germany. On August 22, 1945 Ida Hyde died of a cerebral hemorrhage.\n\nBorn in Davenport, Iowa, Ida was one of four children to Meyer and Babette (Lowenthal) Heidenheimer, German immigrants from Württemberg. The surname Hyde was taken after their arrival in the United States. Ida's father was a merchant that worked out of home and who left the family on one of his trips, leaving Babette to care for the children. In order to keep the family afloat, they moved to Chicago, where Babette took in jobs of cleaning and mending until she was able to start a prosperous business.All of the children were able and sent to public school and became educated middle class individuals, with the intention of Ida’s only brother Ben, to attend university.\n\nIn 1871, the family home was destroyed in the Great Fire of Chicago, which destroyed the family business as well. Without any form of income, Ida as the oldest daughter, entered the work force at age 14 as a milliner's apprentice. Because of her age, older than that of her siblings, much of the burden of supporting the family fell on her. She brought in a large portion of the family income, and even paid for her only brother's education at the University of Illinois. Over time, she rose in her occupation to the job of saleslady. Her experience in the clothing store proved to be valuable later in life because of her ability to fashion her own clothing with minimal supplies.\n\nAt the store where she worked, Hyde chanced upon an English version of Ansichten der Natur (View of Nature) by Alexander von Humboldt. It was from this work that her love of biology was born. In addition, it spurred her toward continuing her education, which she did by attending night classes at the Chicago Athenaeum during 1875–76 in spite of her parent's objections. Her further educational studies came to her while she was visiting her brother at his university and chanced upon meeting several women working in academia. She was able to pass her entrance exams for the College Preparatory School and later entered the same university as her brother.\n\nIda began studying at the University of Illinois at the age of 24, but her study was cut short when her brother became sick in 1882 and she had to attend to him. She also used all of her savings for just one year of education. However, she passed the county teacher's exam and, three years later, the Chicago teacher's exams, and for the next seven years she worked as a teacher of second- and third-graders within the Chicago public school system. Her biological pursuits still were still expressed in her attempts to work nature studies into the public school system. She saved money to put towards her tuition, remaining focused on her goal of attaining a college degree.\n\nIn 1888 she was finally able to return to the collegiate scene at the age of 31. She enrolled at Cornell University and earned her Bachelor of Arts degree in just three years. She was then offered a biology scholarship at Bryn Mawr College. She accepted and began under the tutelage of Jacques Loeb and Thomas Hunt Morgan. As an assistant att Woods Hole Biological Laboratory, she conducted research on the nervous system of jellyfish. She produced many detailed drawings and descriptions of the nerve cells. In 1893, Hyde received a European Fellowship from the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, which would later become the American Association of University Women.\n\nIda’s results from the research at Woods Hole is said to have helped motivate Dr. Goette in inviting her to come to University of Strasbourg in 1893, to work with him even as no woman had done previously. Hyde, during her attendance at Strasbourg, was the first woman in Germany to have ever petitioned to matriculate for an advanced degree in natural science or mathematics. At the time it was necessary to petition the government and get permission from the faculty. Before this process went fully into motion Ida withdrew her attempts. It is said that the large number of people who spoke out against Ida going through with the petition is what was the cause of that decision, and that Heidelberg University would be a better place to gain her degree.\n\nIda received her Ph.D. at Heidelberg University, Germany at age 39 after many frustrating obstacles presented because of her gender. She was required to go beyond the work of an average student to receive her degree, and became the third woman to graduate with a doctorate there. The main problem in obtaining her degree was that her teaching professor, Wilhelm Kühne, disliked the thought of allowing a woman to work under him. But her accomplishments eventually surmounted his opposition and she passed the doctoral examinations with honor in February 1896 and became the first woman to receive a doctorate from this institution. Her thesis project examined the physiological development of jellyfish (Hydromedusa).\n\nIda researched at several other institutions before going to the University of Kansas including University of Berne 1896, and Radcliffe College 1897. After she started working at KU, Hyde also studied at Rush Medical College over several summers to receive her M. D. in 1911.\n\nIn the course of Ida’s seven years of teaching she was involved in establishing the “Science in the Schools” program in Chicago’s public school system. This program helped to introduce Nature Studies into these school, where Ida was even known for sharing her own teaching methods with the other educators.\n\nFollowing completion of her doctorate, she was invited to Naples, Italy as the Investigator of Residence at the Naples Zoological Station, a prestigious post. She continued work on marine invertebrate physiology, until moving to the University of Bern, Switzerland to work with Dr. Kronecker on muscle physiology. She became the first woman admitted to do research at Harvard Medical School under W.T. Porter. While continuing her research, she also furthered her education and medical training at Harvard. Hyde remained an educator as well, teaching classes at preparatory schools and at Woods Hole during the summer.\n\nShe was hired as an Associate Professor by the University of Kansas in 1899 and founded the Department of Physiology, also serving as its first Chairman of the Department of Physiology, where she worked for 22 years.\n\nOver her career, Hyde's research covered the nervous, circulatory, and respiratory systems of vertebrates and invertebrates, and explored the effects of narcotics, caffeine, and alcohol on the body. Also in through the course of her work she noted the differences in the effects of music on the cardiovascular system in athletes, musicians, and farmers and caffeine being the cause of decreased efficiency in physical work. She was the first women elected into the American Society of Physiologists in 1902, and was its only female member until 1913.\n\nHyde was a researcher and professor, but also an inventor and innovator. She developed instruments for monitoring physiological parameters in a marine animal that could be used in seawater. Her most well-known invention was an intracellular micropippette electrode. Dr. Hyde had observed that electrolytes in high concentrations affect processes of cell division, leading to her noting of the minute differences in electrical potential within cells. In order to understand how these nerve and muscle cells work, she needed to be able to stimulate the cells properly and be able to record the results of the change in the currents of the individual cells occurring. Ida’s microelectrode can be used for stimulating cells at the micro level while recording electrical activity within the cell without disturbing the cellular wall. This device was a revolutionary invention in neurophysiology and the study of contractile nerve tissue, however, the micro electrode was never officially attributed to Ida as being its first inventor.\n\nThough Dr. Hyde’s possible microelectrode invention was reported in 1921, several others also created electrodes similar to Ida’s, while scientific historians, like G. Kass-Simon have accredited Hyde’s invention as being the original and revolutionary. Another microelectrode was supposedly invented another time, about twenty years after Ida was said to have made her version of this invention, by Judith Graham and Ralph W. Gerard from the University of Chicago. Then in the 1950s, Gerard was nominated for a Nobel Prize, because of his developed model of the microelectrode.\n\n\nIda Hyde lectured on multiple occasions within and outside of the University of Kansas.With the aid of area physicians, she established a program of public medical examination of school children for communicable diseases such as tuberculosis and spinal meningitis. Though she was not a true medical professional, she was elected to membership in the Kansas Medical Society because of her expertise in the knowledge and control of infectious diseases. And in 1918 she was appointed State Chairman of the Kansas Women’s Committee on Health, Sanitation and National Defense. A notable proportion of the lectures Ida held in her career were on hygiene and spreadable diseases. Dr. Hyde spoke openly about human sexuality and its involvement in the spread of disease, as well as being an open promoter of public health education.\n\nHyde repeatedly encountered barriers to her education and career due to her gender, and pressed for more equal access and treatment of women in academia throughout her life. When she was denied the right to enroll in Strassburg University because of her gender, she went to Heidelberg University. Although she was allowed to matriculate, the university's medical school did not permit women, and the faculty denied her entry to physiology lectures or laboratories. Fortunately, her male colleagues shared their lecture notes, and after intense study she passed her doctoral examinations with honor. She wrote about her difficulties in a revealing account in the AAUW Journal entitled \"Before Women Were Human Beings\".\n\nAfter returning to America, Hyde enlisted the help of many fellow women academics and wealthy female benefactors to create a fund to support women in science. The Naples Table Association became a source of both financial aid and professional support for women in scientific research, with 36 women benefiting from the program. In 1927, she established a scholarship at the University of Kansas (KU) for women pursuing careers in the sciences, and endowed the Ida H. Hyde International Fellowship with the Association of American University Women (AAUW). On the campus of KU, she pushed for toilet facilities in the science buildings; these buildings were built with only restrooms provided for men, assuming there would be no need for women's facilities. She repeatedly pressed the university for equal pay and worked in the community to increase the opportunities for women in diverse professions.\n\n"}
{"id": "16095144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16095144", "title": "Imperial Typewriter Company", "text": "Imperial Typewriter Company\n\nThe Imperial Typewriter Company was a British manufacturer of typewriters based in Leicester, England.\n\nThe company was founded by Hidalgo Moya, an American-Spanish engineer who lived in England. After first building the Moya typewriter, he set up the Imperial Typewriter Company in Leicester in 1911 with local businessmen John Gordon Chattaway, William Arthur Evans and Joseph Wallis Goddard. It stopped manufacturing typewriters when electric models and then word processors and personal computers became popular, causing typewriter sales to fall.\n\nThe company was acquired by Litton Industries in 1966, and gradually introduced Royal Typewriter Company models largely assembled from parts shipped from Hartford, Connecticut, United States. In May 1974, Asian workers at the Imperial Typewriter Company in Leicester went on strike over unequal bonus payments and discrimination in promotion. The shop stewards committee and Transport & General Workers Union branch refused their support, but the strikers stayed on strike for almost 14 weeks. The manufacture of typewriters ceased at Leicester and Hull in 1975.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48707898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48707898", "title": "List of Valmet products", "text": "List of Valmet products\n\nThis is a list of Valmet products. The Valmet Corporation is a developer and supplier of technologies, automation systems and services for the pulp, paper and energy industries but Valmet’s history as an industrial operator stretches back over 200 years. This list concentrates mainly on the historical products while the new products are described in the main article.\n\nBetween 1958 and 1991 Valmet produced a large number of locomotives, diesel multiple units and electric multiple units for the Finnish State Railways, as well as a number of trams for Helsinki City Transport.\n\nDiesel locomotives - Valmet made first locomotives in co-operation with Lokomo and Tampella for USSR and after that locomotives for VR\n\n\nDiesel trains and railbuses (Dm3 ja Dm4, Dm6 ja Dm7, Dm8, Dm9)\n\nValmet made electrical multiple units with Strömberg for VR (Sm1 and Sm2, and for Helsinki metro M100 trains).\n\nValmet made trams with Strömberg for HKL years 1973–1975 and 1983–1987.\n\n\nValmet's airplane products came from Valtion lentokonetehdas. Valmet designed and made Valmet L-70 Vinka and Valmet L-90 Redigo. It also designed the Tuuli III and L-89 Turbovinha. It also had a license to make Fouga Magister, Saab Draken and BAe Hawk.\n\nThe products were later moved to Patria Finavitec Oy and Patria company's Patria Aviation Oy.\n\nMain tasks were the assembly and licence production of Fouga Magister trainers, Saab Draken fighters and BAe Hawk trainers. The Tampere factory was closed in the 1960s and main part of the aircraft factory became the facility at Kuorevesi.\n\nDomestically-designed aircraft included the Valmet Vihuri in the 1950s, the Valmet Vinka in the late 1970s and the Valmet Redigo in the mid-1980s.\n\nA line of military trainer aircraft for the Finnish Air Force developed and manufactured by Valmet include the L-70 Vinka and L-90 Redigo.\n\nAfter the Finnish state privatized Valmet in 1996, the aviation division was detached and integrated into Finnish defense industries, Patria, as Patria Finavitec. The military part is mostly state-owned but EADS owns 27 per cent of Patria.\n\nThis period started with the assembly of F/A-18 Hornet fighter aircraft and NH90 helicopters. Civilian work increased in the form of participating in design and manufacture of parts for Airbus aircraft, most notably A380 spoilers.\n\n\nIn 1968 Valmet and Saab started a company called Saab-Valmet. It had a car factory in Uusikaupunki and it produced mainly Saab cars. The factory is now Valmet Automotive.\n\nValmet made paper mill machinery and process control equipment. \"Valtion tykkitehdas\" produced artillery pieces for the Finnish Army along with Tampella AB industries. After World War II production switched to paper mills.\n\nPaper machines production technology was made in Rautpohja fun factory by Uolevi Konttinen, Olavi Miekk-oja and a technician. Unlike for many other gun factories it was easier for Valmet to change their products. The first two paper machines were made for Metalexport to Poland in 1953. In 1969 it made an agreement to make paper and cardboard machines with Tampella and Wärtsilä.\n\nValmet concentrated to make paper machines for making paper for newspapers, magazines and bags. The companies had a common marketing organization.\n\nMetso Paper had a company in China's Xi'an with a local partner. The company was called Metso Paper Technology (Xi'an) Co. Ltd. It is now called Valmet Paper Technology (Xi'an) Co. Ltd.\n\nValmet first made tractors for Finland. In the beginning of 1960's Valmet made a tractor factory to Brazil and later one in Tanzania. Valmet took over Volvo BM's tractor production in the 1980s. In 1994 Valmet sold the Valmet (tractor) to Sisu Auto which Partek bought in 1997. Partek came part of Kone in 2002. It sold the tractors to AGCO Corporation. The company makes tractors in Äänekoski's Suolahti factory. In 2001 they took Valtra trademark into use. Originally Valtra was a product name of Valmet's products.\n\nValmet's machines for forestry were also moved from Sisu Auto, Partek and Kone. Kone sold them to Japanese Komatsu in 2003. Komatsu Forest makes forest machines in Sweden and United States and discontinued the Valmet labelled products in the beginning of 2011.\n\n\n\nValtion Kivääritehdas was merged into Valmet in 1951. The firearms developed by Valmet include the Rk 62, mod. 78 7.62×51, M82 and the RK 95 TP.\n\nThe company also manufactured trolleybuses, between 1948 and 1960, but the total number built was only 52, comprising 23 for Helsinki and 29 for Tampere.\n\nValmet dockyards were merged with Wärtsilä yards to form Wärtsilä Marine. After the bankruptcy the company re-emerged as Masa Yards, later becoming Aker Finnyards and subsequently Aker Yards.\n\n"}
{"id": "9249236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9249236", "title": "List of WiMAX networks", "text": "List of WiMAX networks\n\nA list of WiMAX networks worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176883", "title": "Major appliance", "text": "Major appliance\n\nA major appliance, or domestic appliance, is a large machine in home appliance used for routine housekeeping tasks such as cooking, washing laundry, or food preservation. An appliance is different from a plumbing fixture because it uses electricity or fuel.\n\nMajor appliances differ from small appliances because they are bigger and not portable. They are often considered fixtures and part of real estate and as such they are often supplied to tenants as part of otherwise unfurnished rental properties. Major appliances may have special electrical connections, connections to gas supplies, or special plumbing and ventilation arrangements that may be permanently connected to the appliance. This limits where they can be placed in a home.\n\nMany major appliances are made of enamel-coated sheet steel which, in the middle 20th century, was usually white. The term white goods in contrast to brown goods, is also used, primarily where British English is spoken, although definitions for the term \"white goods\" can differ. In the United States, the term \"white goods\" can also refer to linens. In New Zealand \"whiteware\" may be used, elsewhere a term from pottery.\nSince major appliances in a home consume a significant amount of energy, they have become the objectives of programs to improve their energy efficiency in many countries. Energy efficiency improvements may require changes in construction of the appliances, or improved control systems.\n\nIn the early days of electrification, many major consumer appliances were made by the same companies that made the generation and distribution equipment. While some of these brand names persist to the present day, even if only as licensed use of old popular brand names, today many major appliances are manufactured by companies or divisions of companies that specialize particular appliances.\n\nMajor appliances may be roughly divided as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "5987739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5987739", "title": "Marching line", "text": "Marching line\n\nMarching lines are a pair of lines drawn on the glass of a compass, and arranged at 45 degrees to each other. These are an essential component in hiking through the wilderness. Most modern compasses have adjustable luminous marching lines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26699451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26699451", "title": "Mechanophilia", "text": "Mechanophilia\n\nMechanophilia (or mechaphilia) is a paraphilia involving a sexual attraction to machines such as bicycles, motor vehicles, helicopters, ships, and aeroplanes. \n\nMechanophilia is treated as a crime in some nations with perpetrators being placed on a sex-offenders' register after prosecution. Motorcycles are often portrayed as sexualized fetish objects to those who desire them.\n\nMechanophilia has been used to describe important works of the early modernists, including in the \"Eccentric Manifesto\" (1922), written by Leonid Trauberg, Sergei Yutkevich, Grigori Kozintsev and othersmembers of the Factory of the Eccentric Actor, a modernist avant-garde movement that spanned Russian futurism and constructivism.\n\nThe term has entered into the realms of science fiction and popular fiction.\n\nScientifically, in \"BiophiliaThe Human Bond with Other Species\" by Edward O. Wilson, Wilson is quoted describing mechanophilia, the love of machines, as \"a special case of biophilia\", whereas psychologists such as Erich Fromm would see it as a form of necrophilia.\n\nDesigners such as Francis Picabia and Filippo Tommaso Marinetti have been said to have exploited the sexual attraction of automobiles.\n\nCulturally, critics have described it as \"all pervading\" within contemporary Western society and that it seems to overwhelm our society and all too often our better judgement. Although not all such uses are sexual in intent, the terms are also used for specifically erotogenic fixation on machinery and taken to its extreme in hard core pornography as \"Fucking Machines\". This mainly involves women being sexually penetrated by machines for male consumption, which are seen as being the limits of current sexual biopolitics.\n\nArse Elektronika, an annual conference organized by the Austrian arts-and-philosophy collective monochrom, has propagated a DIY/feminist approach to sex machines.\n\nAuthors have drawn a connection between mechanophilia and masculine militarisation, citing the works of animator Yasuo Ōtsuka and Studio Ghibli.\n\nIn 2008, an American named Edward Smith admitted to 'having sex' with 1000 cars.\n\nIn 2013, a British man was caught having sex with his Land Rover in public.\n\nThe French film La Grande Bouffe includes a scene of a man and a car copulating, to fatal effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15850112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15850112", "title": "Melon ball", "text": "Melon ball\n\nMelon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller that varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters (about 3/8 inch to 1 inch). They are generally used in fruit salad.\n\nA melon baller, formally called a Parisienne scoop, is a small spoon-like tool used to cut round- or oval-shaped sections of melon, known as melon balls, by pressing them into the melon's flesh and rotating. It can also be used to cut other soft fruit and ice cream. The diameter of a melon baller's bowl varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters (about 3/8 inch to 1 inch), and it is typically made of stainless steel with a handle of wood, metal, or hard plastic. Some varieties have the handle in the middle and a different-sized bowl on each end, and the bowl typically has a small hole in the middle to allow air and juice through. It is more commonly known as a prepping utensil. Melon ballers can be used for a variety of melons; like watermelon, cantaloupe, or honeydew. They typically are multifunctional utensils.\n\n"}
{"id": "24503294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24503294", "title": "Michael Aldrich", "text": "Michael Aldrich\n\nMichael Aldrich (22 August 1941 – 19 May 2014) was an English inventor, innovator and entrepreneur. In 1979 he invented online shopping to enable online transaction processing between consumers and businesses, or between one business and another, a technique known later as e-commerce. In 1980 he invented the Teleputer, a multi-purpose home infotainment centre that was a fusion of PC, TV and Telecom networking technologies. In 1981 he developed the concept of interactive broadband local loop cable TV for mass market consumer telecommunications.\n\nAldrich had a 38-year career in the IT industry, 20 years of which were spent as CEO of an international computer company, Redifon/Rediffusion/ROCC Computers. He retired as CEO in 2000 and became non-executive Chairman (2000-2014). He also worked for Honeywell (now Groupe Bull) and Burroughs Corporation (now Unisys).\n\nAside from his inventions and innovations, he is known for his pro bono public service. He was an IT adviser to British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 1981-86, IT adviser to the Confederation of British Industry January 1982-December 1983, President of the Institute of Information Scientists 1984-85, and Chairman of the Tavistock Institute of Human Relations 1989-99. He has had a long, formal association with the University of Brighton in various capacities since 1982.\n\nMichael Aldrich was born on 22 August 1941 in Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire, England. He went to school at Clapham College in London and, in 1959, he won a scholarship to the University of Hull to study History. He became engaged to Sandy Kay Hutchings, a student at Hull Art College, originally named Hull School of Art, in 1960, and they married in 1962, just prior to his graduation. They had four children and were grandparents to eight grandchildren.\n\nAldrich spent 15 years with Honeywell and Burroughs in the UK in various sales and marketing roles, where he became known as an innovator, before joining the Board of Redifon in 1977.\n\nIn 1979, Aldrich invented online shopping by connecting a modified domestic TV to a real-time transaction processing computer via a domestic telephone line. The intellectual basis for his system was his view that videotex, the modified domestic TV technology with a very simple menu-driven human–computer interface, was a 'new, universally applicable, participative communication medium-the first since the invention of the telephone.' This enabled 'closed' corporate information systems to be opened to 'outside' correspondents not just for transaction processing but also for messaging [e-mail] and information retrieval and dissemination [later known as e-business.] His language of 'impacts competitive trading position', 'using IT for competitive advantage', 'externalises labour costs', etc. became commonplace in the management consultancy industry later in the 1980s. These ideas fed into the Business Process Reengineering strategies of the 1990s. His concept of information technology as a mass communications medium is a driver for the contemporary IT industry. His definition of the new mass communications medium as 'participative' [interactive, many-to-many] was fundamentally different to the traditional definitions of mass communication and mass media and a precursor to the social networking on the Internet 25 years later.\n\nIn March 1980 he launched Redifon's Office Revolution. The Revolution was that corporate computer information systems had hitherto been in-house.From hereon consumers, customers, agents, distributors,suppliers and service companies would be connected on-line to the corporate systems and business would be transacted electronically in real-time.\n\nDuring the 1980s he designed, manufactured, sold, installed, maintained and supported many online shopping systems, using videotex technology. These systems which also provided voice response and handprint processing pre-date the Internet and the World Wide Web, the IBM PC, and Microsoft MS-DOS, and were installed mainly in the UK by large corporations.\n\nIn 1980 he invented a system he called the 'Teleputer' by connecting a modified 14-inch colour television to a plinth containing a Zilog Z80 microprocessor running a modified version of the CP/M operating system and a chip set containing a modem, character generator and auto-dialler. The Teleputer of 1980's operate as a stand-alone colour PC (at a time when computer screens were mainly mono-chromatic), with a full complement of application software and network with other computers via dial-up or leased lines. The system included two 360 KB floppy disks (later a 20 MB Hard disk), a keyboard and a printer. The name 'Teleputer' later became synonymous with the fusion of computers, telecommunications and television in a single device. There were plans to add video-disks which at the time, in prototype form, were 12 inches. In many ways the Teleputer was the first home media centre concept.\n\nAlthough the Teleputer had been conceived for mass market home use, it was put into production for business use with the TV tuner removed. There was no consumer electronics market for it (at the time the consumer electronics market was just waking up to the VCR) but it was relatively easy to cost-justify the Teleputer for business networking. It was widely used in the UK and, because a Cyrillic version was made, in the then USSR.\n\nThe Teleputer was often used with the Online Shopping systems. Most computer systems by their nature are transient but many of Aldrich's systems were transformative. A number were recorded for posterity and case studies have survived. The world's first recorded Business-to-Business (B2B) Online Shopping system was Thomson Holidays[1981] The world's first recorded Business-to-Consumer (B2C) online shopping system was Gateshead SIS/Tesco[1984] The world's first recorded online home shopper was Mrs Jane Snowball, 72, of Gateshead, England in May 1984. The Gateshead system had an Online Shopping Basket [later renamed Online Shopping Trolley] invented by Aldrich's colleague John Phelan.\n\nSome of the most interesting B2B applications in the surviving case studies were in the auto industry. Peugeot-Talbot (1981), then trading as Talbot Motors, installed a system for dealers to locate and adopt both a new car from the manufacturer or a used car from other dealers. Ford (1982) installed systems with ISPs in Brentwood England and Valencia Spain that permitted dealers in many European countries to buy new cars from Ford or transfer existing new cars from other dealers' lots. General Motors[1985] used systems for selling truck spares. The Nissan[1984] systems were truly revolutionary. They combined car purchase by the dealer from the manufacturer (known in the industry as 'adoption') with car sale and financing to the consumer. The Nissan systems networked credit ratings from outside agencies (mainly UAPT Infolink 1985) and finance provision from either Nissan or other suppliers in real-time as part of the complete consumer purchasing transaction. This is the world's first recorded B2C online shopping for high value consumer durables and a model for the complex internet-based online shopping transactions for consumer durables that followed 20 years later. The Nissan system was copied by other credit rating and finance companies at the time but these systems appear to have been supplied by Aldrich's company under confidentiality agreements and no record is extant.\n\nAldrich's systems directly changed the holiday, retail, auto, finance and credit ratings industries. Online shopping was an important development for electronic commerce. E-commerce changed the way the world does business. Both of his B2C systems in Gateshead and Bradford were shopping and information services. Bradford Centrepoint [1987] even ran a news service at one point. These systems were pioneering pre-internet systems.\n\nAldrich's original intention had been to develop a consumer electronics market for IT systems linked to a concept for broadband interactive information processing and cable TV distribution. He had a particular schema for a wired community. He campaigned successfully to change the law in the UK to permit new cable TV technology.\n\nAldrich articulated and broadcast the ubiquitous business and social potential of his mass communications medium concept of IT and created systems to realise that dream, sold and installed them, and created satisfied clients. Well known in the 1980s in the UK, he was all but forgotten 20 years later. His ideas were copied, plagiarised and patented in the 1990s without acknowledgement. Thomson Holidays reverse-engineered his system (the sincerest form of homage in the computer business) and in the peer-reviewed 1988 report used his language while virtually air-brushing his contribution. For online shopping he produced both the system and the business rationale for using it. The tie between his online shopping systems and the innovative information systems he created is the concept that videotex was a new, mass communications medium. That was the giant conceptual leap from the world of EDP to modern IT, emancipating computing from corporate information centres, and a precursor to the development of the Apple Mac and Microsoft Windows approaches to universal human/computer interface design for PCs and the Apple iPhone 3G. \n\nThe three areas of his work in consumer electronics—online shopping/Teleworking/Telebanking, Home Information Centres and broadband cable TV—and his book, papers and UK Government reports represent a significant contribution to the development of contemporary IT mass communications, consumer information and transaction systems, electronic commerce and e-business. Aldrich's ideas are the basis for Internet home shopping.In June 2011 an ICM Poll in the UK voted Aldrich's date of birth as the 7th most important date in the history of the internet. In April 2012 the UK Intellectual Property Office [formerly the UK Patents Office] nominated Aldrich for a public poll to identify the UK Visionary Innovator to celebrate World IP Day on 26 April. He came 4th in the Poll. There are currently gaps in the surviving records held at the Aldrich Library and it is likely that further information and illumination will be forthcoming in due course because of new academic and patent interest.\n\nHe was also an innovator in other areas of computer and information technology including large-scale data capture, mixed media scanning, minicomputer networking, voice response and handprint processing. He patented the world's first static signature recognition system in 1984. He founded ROCC Computers in 1984 after a management buy-out of Rediffusion Computers. The company traded mainly in the UK and Eastern Europe.\n\nIn the 20 years from 1978 to 1998, Michael Aldrich and his team undertook many high-profile projects which in many ways created the company's reputation. A number of case studies have survived. It was not unusual for the times that there were high-profile IT projects; what was unusual was that a small UK IT company of 500–700 people became involved in high profile, high value, high risk and technically difficult projects. What is even more unusual is that there is no evidence to suggest that the projects were anything but very successful.\nThe first project for which evidence survives was to provide a system to automatically read handprinted timesheets for the nationalised railway, British Rail with over 100,000 employees, to complete the weekly payroll.[1978]. Regional centres were established throughout the UK. Scanners were used to read timesheets and for other applications. The systems were used for many years.\nThe largest project was the Siberian Gas Pipeline for Gazprom[1981-83] where 46 computer systems with 1200 terminals and 240 Teleputers were networked to provide logistics support for the operation of the pipeline. Every aspect of the project was fraught with difficulties,\nincluding political, technical, environmental, technical support, economic and resourcing problems. Some 1500 Russian hardware and software specialists were trained. The system was the most advanced IT system then installed in the USSR. It was used for many years.\nThe largest European project was the Ford Europe system [1981-83] for dealers to locate and adopt a car, an online shopping system for dealers in the UK and much of Europe networking to systems based in the UK and Valencia, Spain. The system was used for nearly two decades. The largest UK project, apart from the Inland Revenue [the UK IRS], was the pricing of over 334 million medical prescriptions per annum for the Prescription Pricing Authority[1981-83][now NHS Prescription Services], part of the UK's single provider health system.These systems were used throughout the UK for a decade or more. The most politically sensitive project was probably the cattle passport system for the British Cattle Movement Service to address the BSE[mad cow disease] crisis in 1998. There were hundreds of other projects.\nThe legacy of these projects is somewhat perverse. Leading-edge technology was seen to work well and to be reasonably easy to implement. It may have encouraged others to take risks that were not always justifiable. The 1990s onwards in the UK saw a succession of big, failed IT projects.\n\nMichael Aldrich became a Fellow of the British Computer Society in 1984 and he was made a Chartered Fellow in 2004. In 1986 he was invited to become a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute, the UK's elite management leadership organization. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals. In 2002 he was awarded an Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters by the University of Brighton for services to Information Technology.\nMichael Aldrich was invited to address an invited audience including British Royalty on 23 March 1983 in Edinburgh, Scotland to mark the 25th Anniversary of the founding of the British Computer Society. The speech was titled 'Computers in the Community.'\nIn 1987 Michael Aldrich was made a Freeman of the City of London,England. He became a Founder Member of the Company of Information Technologists which became a Chartered City Livery in 1992. The Company's membership consists of senior IT professionals.He is a Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists.\n\nIn 1981, at the beginning of the IT age, the British Government assembled a team of six UK IT experts, on a \"pro bono\" basis, to provide high-level advice to the government. This team was known as the Information Technology Advisory Panel. It reported to Prime Minister Mrs Margaret Thatcher and was located in the Cabinet Office adjacent to 10 Downing Street in London, England. In its five-year existence it produced three reports for publication by the government. Little else is known about its activities.\nMichael Aldrich was a member of the team for the whole term of its existence. He wrote a seminal paper on re-cabling the UK with local loop broadband cable and paying for it without government subsidy by distributing cable television alongside data and telephone services. The panel then wrote a report, published it and the government subsequently changed the law to legalise such systems. By 2007, 12 million UK homes were passed by these high-speed broadband links.\nThe second report concerned the emerging software and information business and, among other issues, identified the potential power of providers who might control both content and electronic delivery. The third report was a long-range forecast of the potential effects of IT on schools and teaching and it predicted powerful PCs on school desks. The Panel was disbanded in 1986.\n\nMichael Aldrich became a member of the Council of the Tavistock Institute of Human Relations[TIHR] in 1988 and was elected Chairman in 1989, a post he held for a decade. TIHR was then located at the Tavistock Clinic hospital in Hampstead, London, England. The TIHR was spun out of the Tavistock Clinic as a charity in 1947. The Tavistock Clinic is a centre of excellence for studying and addressing the clinical behaviour of individuals. The TIHR is focussed on group behaviour.\nIn 1988 the TIHR had an illustrious history at the forefront of the social and psychological\nsciences but was somewhat in the shadows of the world-famous founding fathers who had once worked there or indeed were still working there. These people were approaching retirement and\nthe TIHR needed to renew itself. The transition of the TIHR was to take nearly two decades.\nThe 1989-99 period was characterised by the physical relocation of the TIHR from the Tavistock Clinic in Hampstead to its own building in London's City financial district; the stabilisation of the Institute's finances;the 50th Anniversary[1997] celebration that saluted the past achievements while embracing future challenges; the publication of the Tavistock Anthology which served to draw an elegant line under the TIHR's previous achievements; and the development of new lines of research by a talented younger team.\nMichael Aldrich left the Council in 1999. He remains a member of the Tavistock Association.\n\nMichael Aldrich first became involved with the then Brighton Polytechnic in 1977 when he was sponsoring student employees for degrees in electronic engineering and computer science. Under the sponsorship, employees were paid to attend college full-time for degrees. In 1982 he joined the governing body of the college, became Chairman and then Founding Chairman of the University of Brighton. In all he served 17 years on the governing body of the institution, 11 years as Chairman[1987-1998]. He retired from the Board of Governors in 1999. In 1990 he was responsible for appointing Professor [later Sir] David Watson as the first Vice-Chancellor[1990-2005]. A particularly talented leadership team developed the new university and for 1999 the University was declared 'University of the Year' by the London 'Sunday Times' newspaper. In 1992, Aldrich became Founding Chairman of the University's Foundation a fundraising body. The Aldrich family has been a longtime benefactor of the University. In 1995 Michael and wife Sandy began the Aldrich Collection of Contemporary Art which, by 2009, had grown to more than 300 works dating back over 100 years. The works have been created mainly by former students and artist professors at the University's highly rated Faculty of Art. The works are also held in web-accessible digitised form to provide a permanent virtual gallery. In 1996 the University named its new business, bio-sciences, engineering and technology library the 'Aldrich Library.' In 2002 Aldrich relinquished the chairmanship of the Foundation and remained a Trustee. In 2008, Michael Aldrich agreed to donate his IT papers for the period 1977-2000, the Aldrich Archive, to the University for teaching, learning, scholarship and research. Much of the first part of the archive which relates to technology and events has been digitised and is web-accessible. The second phase of the archive project was launched in 2010. It will gather and digitise material relating to the people who built and used the systems.\n\nIn November 2010 the University of Brighton Business School announced that it would be using the Aldrich Archive for teaching and research.A Michael Aldrich Prize would be awarded to the outstanding e-commerce student on merit each year. The first awards were made in the Summer of 2011.\n\nAldrich died on 19 May 2014.\n\nMichael Aldrich was a prolific writer of magazine articles, conference papers and speeches.\nSome have survived. Some are available from commercial publishers. Many have been lost or destroyed.\n"}
{"id": "410778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410778", "title": "Micromachinery", "text": "Micromachinery\n\nMicromachines are mechanical objects that are fabricated in the same general manner as integrated circuits. They are generally considered to be between 100 nanometres to 100 micrometres in size, though that is debatable. The applications of micromachines include accelerometers that detect when a car has hit an object and trigger an airbag. Complex systems of gears and levers are another application.\n\nThe fabrication of these devices is usually done by two techniques, surface micromachining and bulk micromachining. To do bulk micromachining, the region needed is highly doped with boron and the unwanted silicon is etched in liquid silicon etches. This technique is termed an etchstop as the doping of boron produces an unetchable layer/pattern.\n\nMost micromachines act as transducers; in other words, they are either sensors or actuators.\n\nSensors convert information from the environment into interpretable electrical signals. One example of a micromachine sensor is a resonant chemical sensor. A lightly damped mechanical object vibrates much more at one frequency than any other, and this frequency is called its resonance frequency. A chemical sensor is coated with a special polymer that attracts certain molecules, such as those found in anthrax, and when those molecules attach to the sensor, its mass increases. The increased mass alters the resonance frequency of the mechanical object, which is detected with circuitry.\n\nActuators convert electrical signals and energy into motion of some kind. The three most common types of actuators are electrostatic, thermal, and magnetic. Electrostatic actuators use the force of electrostatic energy to move objects. Two mechanical elements, one that is stationary (the stator) and one that is movable (the rotor) have two different voltages applied to them, which creates an electric field. The field competes with a restoring force on the rotor (usually a spring force produced by the bending or stretching of the rotor) to move the rotor. The greater the electric field, the farther the rotor will move. Thermal actuators use the force of thermal expansion to move objects. When a material is heated, it expands an amount depending on material properties. Two objects can be connected in such a way that one object is heated more than the other and expands more, and this imbalance creates motion. The direction of motion depends on the connection between the objects.\nThis is seen in a \"heatuator\", which is a U-shaped beam with one wide arm and one narrow arm. When a current is passed through the object, heat is created. The narrow arm is heated more than the wide arm because they have the same current density. Since the two arms are connected at the top, the stretching hot arm pushes in the direction of the cold arm. Magnetic actuators used fabricated magnetic layers to create forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10948234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10948234", "title": "Microthermoforming", "text": "Microthermoforming\n\nMicrothermoforming is the abbreviation for microscopic or microscale thermoforming, or, more precisely, for thermoforming of microproducts or microstructure products. Microstructure products means products that have structures in the micrometre range and have their technical function provided by the shape of the microstructure [1]. Thermoforming [2] in turn means shaping of heated and therefore softened semi finished products in the form of thermoplastic polymer films or plates with their edges fixed by three-dimensional stretching. Shaping is carried out mainly by forming the films or plates into female moulds (negative forming) or over male moulds (positive forming). While the other polymer microreplication processes such as micro injection moulding or (vacuum) hot embossing are primary forming processes where forming occurs already in a molten, liquid phase of the heated polymer material, microthermoforming is a secondary forming process where forming occurs in a strongly softened, but still solid phase of the heated polymer.\n\nMoulds for polymer microreplication in general and in particular for microthermoforming can be fabricated by various methods such as mechanical micromachining, lithographic based methods in combination with electroplating (see also the so-called 'LIGA' process) and wet or dry etching. And they can be fabricated of various materials such as metal, silicon and glass.\n\nFor several years now, at Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), a pressure or high pressure (thermo)forming process is used to fabricate film microchips for capillary electrophoresis (CE) [3–5] and for three-dimensional cell cultivation [6–8]. The process is derived from the macroscopic trapped sheet forming process [2]. This is a simple variation of vacuum or pressure forming without prestretching, i.e. a single stage forming, into a female mould with heating of the plastic sheet using a contact heating plate inside the forming station. The forming air is supplied via through holes in the heating plate. Still in a laboratory scale process, diverse thermoplastic films also from biodegradable polymers such as polycaprolactone (PCL) with thicknesses typically between 20 and 100 µm are thermoformed. This is performed with gas pressures up to 5 MPa into mechanically micromachined cavities of plate shaped micromoulds from brass.\n\nFirst examples of processes coming near to something that could be called 'microthermoforming' originate from the second half of the nineties. So, in 1993, dome shaped polymer microstructures for use in electrical membrane switches were fabricated [9]. This was done between a mating upper and lower metal emboss die with a concave and a convex detail, respectively, first in a hot, then in a second cold press. And in 1999, corrugated sheet like polymer microstructures for use e.g. in electrostatic actuators were fabricated [10]. This was also done between heated tools and counter tools, namely in discontinuous processes between stamps or in continuous processes between rollers. Partly, the counter tool was a soft one in the form of a thicker, unpatterned film or plate made from an easily deformable, e.g. elastomeric material which is able to assume the shape of the hard, metallic tool. In 2006, at the School of Polymer, Textile and Fiber Engineering (PTFE) of the Georgia Institute of Technology (GIT), the same technology approach was used to fabricate similar corrugated sheet like structures in a so-called 'rubber-assisted hot embossing process' [11].\n\nThe microthermoforming process including its products can have all the advantageous properties of the powerful macroscopic production process. Moreover, the thermoformed microparts have additional, specific properties appearing only in microscale dimensions and resulting from their unusual morphology. Thermoformed e.g. microfluidic structures have free standing microcavities such as channels and reservoirs and they are thin walled partly in the range of a few micrometers. Specific properties of thermoformed microparts are, amongst others, their high flexibility, their small volume and mass, their low thermal resistance and heat capacity, and their low light absorbance and background fluorescence. Morphology and properties of these microparts now can result in improved or even new, so far unthought of applications.\n\nCompared to the other microreplication processes, in microthermoforming, modifications of the film to be formed remain preserved beyond the forming step due to the already mentioned material coherence during this secondary forming process. This enables surface and bulk modification and functionalisation of the three-dimensionally formed films or membranes, namely as highly resolved micro- and nanopatterns, and all side, i.e. on hardly accessible side walls and even behind undercuts. Thus, e.g. thermoformed chips for three-dimensional cell cultivation can be provided with pores, cell adhesion patterns [6–8], surface topologies and electrodes [12].\n\nFuture application fields for microthermoforming are expected to be\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47090538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47090538", "title": "Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (Myanmar)", "text": "Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (Myanmar)\n\nThe Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (; abbreviated MCIT) administers Myanmar's communications and information technology policies. The ministry was formerly known as the Ministry of Communications, Posts and Telegraphs.\n\nThe Ministry was organized as Ministry of Transport and Communication by Htin Kyaw's Cabinet in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37531432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37531432", "title": "Ministry of Information (Serbia)", "text": "Ministry of Information (Serbia)\n\nThe Ministry of Information of the Republic of Serbia () was the ministry in the Government of Serbia. The Ministry of Information merged into the Ministry of Culture on 25 January 2001.\n"}
{"id": "28277535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28277535", "title": "Ministry of Information and Communications Technology of Iran", "text": "Ministry of Information and Communications Technology of Iran\n\nThe Ministry of Information and Communications Technology , or Ministry of ICT () established in 1908, is responsible for postal services, telephones and information technology in the Islamic Republic of Iran.\n\nLaying out and implementing policies pertaining to post and communications are among the functions of the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology, which is also in charge of issuing import licenses for certain communication apparatus and parts thereof.\n\nPost in Iran was in the form of \"Bureau\" before 1876 and all postal affairs have been done by this Bureau. Because of some success in that year, the \"Bureau\" was changed to the Ministry by the command of Naser-aldin Shah. By this command, Amin-almolk, the Minister of tasks and council, was elected for executing this ministry. After a year, in 1877, he resigned the Ministry of tasks and council to have more time for supervising the affairs of the new ministry. During the following years, this ministry was executed by Amin-almolk, as the minister and Mirza Rahim as the deputy.\nIn 1882, a lithographed booklet named \"the Tariff of the Great Post Office of Iran\" was published. There were some maps from all of the telegram offices, post offices, pony post roads and post network in that time in this booklet. According to the content of the booklet, in Iran there were 7 main and 5 secondary post lines.\nAfter this year, it seems to have no major revision in that Bureau or Ministry of the Post but in its organizational and structural form. After the presidency of Amir Kabir, new revolutions appeared in the post of Iran. The posts of the Imperialists\" activities were in suspension and the postmen did the post affairs fast and accurate according to the Amir\"s discipline. \nPost attained a new organization in 1906. Telegraph bureau was attached to the Post and the Ministry of Post and Telegraph formed. The first telephone patent assigned to Basir-ol-mamalek in 1900 and thus telephone worked in Tehran. In 1929, the Ministry of Post and Telegraph offered a proposal to the parliament for purchasing the stocks of Telephone Company. Then the Ministry of Post and Telegraph and Telephone was formed by pronouncing the permission and purchasing the stocks of Telephone Company in the end of ………, \nAfter this year multilateral development had been done in this ministry till 2003. There were several subsidiary company and center which developed many evolutions and spread the communication situations by their ability and activity in post and telecommunication fields. \nSimultaneous with passing the Bill of duties and responsibilities and renaming the ministry from \"Ministry of P.T.T\" to \"Ministry of I.C.T\" in 2003 by the parliament, and according to the structural reform of T.C.I, the new collection of laws, tasks and authorizations of this ministry was codified.\nThus 3 companies: Data Communication Company - renamed to I.C.T in 2005- T.I.C and M.C.I were established beside T.C.I.\nSome of the evolutions are establishing T.C.I and I.R.I Post Company as well as organizing two organizations named I.S.A and C.R.A, and also establishing two councils named \"High Council of IT\" and \"Space Council\". \n\nMinisters of the Revolution\n\n1. Dr. Mohammad Eslami: He worked as the Minister of P.T.T in the transitional government.\n2. Dr. Seyed Mahmoud Ghandi: He was appointed the dean of the Telecommunication College and then as the Minister of PTT by the council of the revolution.On 28.6.1981, he and 72 other officials were martyred at the Islamic Republic Party Central Office by an assassins attack.\n3. Seyed Morteza Nabavi: He was appointed the Financial – Administrative Deputy of the Telecommunications Company of Iran in 1980 and then as the Minister of P.T.T.\n4. Seyed Mohammad Gharazi: At 1981 he was appointed as the Minister of Petroleum and from 1985 to 1997 as the Minister of P.T.T.\n5. Dr. Mohammad Reza Aref: From 1997 to 2000 he was the Minister of P.T.T.\n6. Nasr-o-allah Jahangard: He was the supervisor of the Ministry of P.T.T from June to September of 2000.\n7. Dr. Seyed Abdollah Mirtaheri: He was appointed as the supervisor of the Ministry of P.T.T. from September 2000 to January 2001.\n8. Dr. Seyed Ahmad Motamedi: He was appointed as the Minister of I.C.T from January 2001 to September 2005.\n9. Dr. Mohammad Soleimani: He was the Minister of I.C.T from September 2005 to September 2009.\n10. Reza Taghipour: From September 2009 to……..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32611510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32611510", "title": "Mixlink", "text": "Mixlink\n\nMixlink (Mixlink II) is a computer used with Agfa scales. It was developed to facilitate calculation of color mixes.\n\nMixlink contains the Intel 80386 processor with the clock rate which may be set to either 9.2 or 33 MHz. The RAM size is 640 kB. The HDD function is served by the built-in flash memory that has the size of approximately 800 kB. Mixlink has the monochrome display.\n\nMixlink is also staffed with CD drive and floppy drive.\n\nMixlink was intended to be used with the supplied floppy and CD disk, which provided the system environment (\"operating system\") and the application to be used for calculating color mixes. However, it is possible to install and run MS-DOS on Mixlink.\n\nCurrently, Mixlink computers are not used; their functions may solely be performed by personal computers (PCs).\n"}
{"id": "8648241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8648241", "title": "Modulation error ratio", "text": "Modulation error ratio\n\nThe modulation error ratio or MER is a measure used to quantify the performance of a digital radio (or digital TV) transmitter or receiver in a communications system using digital modulation (such as QAM). A signal sent by an ideal transmitter or received by a receiver would have all constellation points precisely at the ideal locations, however various imperfections in the implementation (such as noise, low image rejection ratio, phase noise, carrier suppression, distortion, etc.) or signal path cause the actual constellation points to deviate from the ideal locations. \n\nTransmitter MER can be measured by specialised equipment, which demodulates the received signal in a similar way to how a real radio demodulator does it. Demodulated and detected signal can be used as a reasonably reliable estimate for the ideal transmitted signal in MER calculation.\n\nAn error vector is a vector in the I-Q plane between the ideal constellation point and the point received by the receiver. The Euclidean distance between the two points is its magnitude.\n\nThe modulation error ratio is equal to the ratio of the root mean square (RMS) power (in Watts) of the reference vector to the power (in Watts) of the error. It is defined in dB as:\n\nwhere P is the RMS power of the error vector, and P is the RMS power of ideal transmitted signal.\n\nMER is defined as a percentage in a compatible (but reciprocal) way:\n\nwith the same definitions.\n\nMER is closely related to error vector magnitude (EVM), but MER is calculated from the average power of the signal. MER is also closely related to signal-to-noise ratio. MER includes all imperfections including deterministic amplitude imbalance, quadrature error and distortion, while noise is random by nature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6835186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6835186", "title": "Monoblock LNB", "text": "Monoblock LNB\n\nA monoblock (or monobloc) LNB is a type of low-noise block downconverter used in communications satellite reception, this dual LNB is the simplest solution to achieve multifeed reception for two satellites.\n\nThis design consists of two independent LNBs in a single case. The two LNBs can be automatically addressed with any DiSEqC 1.0 or higher receiver. In some cases, they can also be addressed with ToneBurst/MiniDiSEqC. However, they are only available for satellites with a fixed 3 degree, 4.3° or 6° spacing. In Europe, for example, there are monoblock single, twin and quad LNBs for the K band, which have a pre-defined spacing of 6 degrees (for Astra 19.2°E/Hot Bird 13°E). \n\nIn March 2007, a new type of monoblock, called the Duo LNB was introduced by CanalDigitaal in the Netherlands for the simultaneous reception of Astra 19.2°E/Astra 23.5°E with a spacing of just 4.3 degrees. Unlike most other monoblocks, the Duo LNB was intended for use with 60 cm dishes (most monoblocks require a larger, 80 cm or 1 m dish). The Duo LNB is available in twin and quad versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "27613051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27613051", "title": "National Payments Corporation of India", "text": "National Payments Corporation of India\n\nNational Payments Corporation of India (NPCI, ) is an umbrella organisation for operating retail payments and settlement systems in India.\n\nFounded in 2008, NPCI is a not-for-profit organisation registered under section 8 of the Companies Act 2013. The organisation is owned by\na consortium of major banks, and has been promoted by the country's central bank, the Reserve Bank of India. \nThe NPCI was incorporated in December 2008 and the Certificate of Commencement of Business was issued in April 2009. The authorised capital has been pegged at and paid-up capital is .\n\nPresently, there are ten core promoter banks (State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Union Bank of India, Bank of India, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Citibank and HSBC). The Board consists of Biswamohan Mahapatra as the Non Executive Chairman, Nominees from Reserve Bank of India and Nominees from ten core promoter banks. Dilip Asbe is the current managing director and chief executive officer of NPCI after A. P. Hota, who retired from the post on August 10, 2017.\n\nThe corporation service portfolio now and in the future include:\n\nRuPay is a domestic card scheme of India. The card has Magnetic stripe (for Backward compatibility), EMV chip.The RuPay card is now accepted at all the ATMs, Point-of-Sale terminals and most of the online merchants in the country. More than 300 cooperative banks and the Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) in the country have also issued RuPay ATM cards.\n\nRupay Contactless is a contactless payment technology feature that allows cardholders to wave their card in front of contactless payment terminals without the need to physically swipe or insert the card into a point-of-sale device.\n\nBHIM is a mobile app act as Client software for Unified Payments Interface.\n\nUnified Payments Interface is a real-time interbank payment system for sending or receiving money. It is integrated with more than 120 banks in India and consumers can participate in P2P transfer as long as they both have an account in one of the registered banks. To initiate fund transfer, users have to use any UPI supporting Android or iOS app, link their bank accounts and generate BHIM UPI PIN. Funds can be transferred via the following methods: \n\nOnce the fund transfer is initiated, money is debited from payer's bank account and deposited in the recipient's bank account in real-time. This system works 24x7, including weekends and bank holidays.\n\nIntegrated bill payment system, \nThe Bharat bill payment system is a Reserve Bank of India (RBI) conceptualised system driven by National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). It is a one-stop ecosystem for payment of all bills providing an interoperable and accessible “Anytime Anywhere” bill payment service to all customers across India with certainty, reliability and safety of transactions.\n\nBharat BillPay has multiple modes of payment and provides instant confirmation of payment via an SMS or receipt. It offers myriad bill collection categories like electricity, telecom, DTH, gas, water bills etc. through a single window. In future biller categories may be expanded to include insurance premium, mutual funds, school fees, institution fees, credit cards, local taxes, invoice payments, etc. An effective mechanism for handling consumer complaints has also been put in place to support consumer regarding any bill related problems in Bharat BillPay\n\nDifferent Payment Channels\nBharat BillPay transaction can be initiated through multiple payment channels like Internet, Internet Banking, Mobile, Mobile-Banking, POS (Point of Sale terminal), Mobile Wallets, MPOS (Mobile Point of Sale terminal), Kiosk, ATM, Bank Branch, Agents and Business Correspondents, by just looking at the Bharat BillPay logo\n\nDifferent Payment Modes\nBharat BillPay facilitates myriad payment modes enabling bill payments. The payment modes options facilitated under the ecosystem are Cards (Credit, Debit and Prepaid), NEFT Internet Banking, UPI, Wallets, Aadhar based Payments and Cash.\n\nImmediate Payment Service is a real time inter bank payment system.\n\nUSSD channel of Unified Payments Interface.\n\nA centralised clearing service that aims at providing interbank high volume, low value transactions that are repetitive and periodic in nature.\n\nCTS is based on a cheque truncation or online image-based cheque clearing system where cheque images and magnetic ink character recognition \n(MICR) data are captured at the collecting bank branch and transmitted electronically.\n\nNetwork of shared automated teller machines in India.\n\nA network of Micro ATM using Aadhaar authentication.\n\nA common QR code built for ease of payments\n\nBHIM Aadhaar pay is an Aadhaar based payments interface which allows real time payments to Merchants using Aadhaar number of Customer &authenticating him/her through his/her bio metrics.\n\nFASTag is a device that employs Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology for making toll payments directly while the vehicle is in motion. FASTag (RFID Tag) is affixed on the windscreen of the vehicle and enables a customer to make the toll payments directly from the account which is linked to FASTag.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50371504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50371504", "title": "Out of the Fiery Furnace", "text": "Out of the Fiery Furnace\n\nOut of the Fiery Furnace is a seven-part documentary series which was completed for ABC television in Australia in 1985. The series traces the discovery and use of metals, minerals, and energy resources through time and was shown in over twenty countries. It was produced by Robert Raymond, was written by Robert Raymond and Michael Charlton and was directed by Chris McCullough. Supported by the Rio Tinto group (via CRA Services Ltd) it consisted of seven episodes, each an hour in duration. Australian nuclear power advocate Ian Hore-Lacy was closely involved with the production.\n\n\nOut of the Fiery Furnace premiered in the USA in 1986. In 1986 the series was used by the University of Pennsylvania as a teaching aid and was available to other American institutions via the PBS Adult Learning Center. It continued to air on television in the USA through the late 1980s (often during prime time) and early 1990s including on cable channel TLC in 1993 and 1994.\n"}
{"id": "56948790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56948790", "title": "PC Perspective", "text": "PC Perspective\n\nPC Perspective (often shortened to PCPer) is a web site dedicated to news and reviews of personal computing and gaming hardware. PC Perspective specializes in hardware that is most relevant to home users and enthusiasts. The site also has an active online community, two weekly podcasts, and founder Ryan Shrout is the co-host of TWiT.tv's This Week in Computer Hardware. \n\nPC Per was founded by Ryan Shrout in 2004. Shrout previously ran the AMD motherboard centric Amdmb.com, Athlonmb.com, and K7M.com websites. \n\nPC Perspective was originally located at pcperspective.com, but quickly moved to pcper.com.\n\nThe PCPer website publishes news and reviews of consumer computing and gaming hardware, which has been highlighted in Forbes, PC World, Ars Technica, and Anandtech. At the editor's discression, products with exceptional reviews may be given Silver, Gold, or Editor's Choice awards. PCPer has also been noted for purchasing professional level products in order to infer the performance of consumer products based on the same microarchitecture, and livestreaming benchmarking of new products.\n\nThe PCPer website also hosts a leaderboard of suggested components for computers at various price points.\n\nPCPer also partnered with Polygon in 2016 on the construction and evaluation of computers for virtual reality gaming.\n\nDue to consulting done by some PCPer staff on products, some PCPer reviews include disclosure statements describing the consulting and review relationship and any potential conflict of interest.\n\nPCPer hosts a weekly podcast discussing the weeks technology news and reviews. Video podcasts have been produces since at least 2010, with a successful Indiegogo fundraising campaign supporting production equipment.. PCPer also began in July 2017 to host a weekly video series answering reader's questions, after reaching a set support level on Patreon.\n\nRyan Shrout is the regular co-host of TWiT.tv's This Week in Computer Hardware with Patrick Norton with other PCPer editors co-hosting as-well.\n\nFounder Ryan Shrout is also a consultant, analyst for MarketWatch and contributor to EE Times, and CNBC, and other publications; often discussing technology related news. Shrout has also co-hosted The Tech Analysts podcast, discussing technology topics, with Patrick Moorehead since 2017.\n"}
{"id": "5177225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5177225", "title": "Plasma cleaning", "text": "Plasma cleaning\n\nPlasma cleaning is the removal of impurities and contaminants from surfaces through the use of an energetic plasma or dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) plasma created from gaseous species. Gases such as argon and oxygen, as well as mixtures such as air and hydrogen/nitrogen are used. The plasma is created by using high frequency voltages (typically kHz to >MHz) to ionise the low pressure gas (typically around 1/1000 atmospheric pressure), although atmospheric pressure plasmas are now also common.\n\nIn plasma, gas atoms are excited to higher energy states and also ionized. As the atoms and molecules 'relax' to their normal, lower energy states they release a photon of light, this results in the characteristic “glow” or light associated with plasma. Different gases give different colors. For example, oxygen plasma emits a light blue color.\n\nA plasma’s activated species include atoms, molecules, ions, electrons, free radicals, metastables, and photons in the short wave ultraviolet (vacuum UV, or VUV for short) range. This 'soup', which incidentally is around room temperature, then interacts with any surface placed in the plasma.\n\nIf the gas used is oxygen, the plasma is an effective, economical, environmentally safe method for critical cleaning. The VUV energy is very effective in the breaking of most organic bonds (i.e., C–H, C–C, C=C, C–O, and C–N) of surface contaminants. This helps to break apart high molecular weight contaminants. A second cleaning action is carried out by the oxygen species created in the plasma (O, O, O, O, O, O, ionised ozone, metastable excited oxygen, and free electrons). These species react with organic contaminants to form HO, CO, CO, and lower molecular weight hydrocarbons. These compounds have relatively high vapor pressures and are evacuated from the chamber during processing. The resulting surface is ultra-clean. In Fig. 2, a relative content of carbon over material depth is shown before and after cleaning with excited oxygen .\n\nIf the part to be treated consists of easily oxidized materials such as silver or copper, inert gases such as argon or helium are used instead. The plasma activated atoms and ions behave like a molecular sandblast and can break down organic contaminants. These contaminants are again vapourised and evacuated from the chamber during processing.\n\nMost of these by-products are small quantities of gases such as carbon dioxide and water vapor with trace amounts of carbon monoxide and other hydrocarbons.\n\nWhether or not organic removal is complete can be assessed with contact angle measurements. When an organic contaminant is present, the contact angle of water with the device will be high. After the removal of the contaminant, the contact angle will be reduced to that characteristic of contact with the pure substrate.\n\nIf a surface to be treated is coated with a patterned conductive layer (metal, ITO) deposited on it, treatment by a direct contact with plasma (capable for contraction to microarcs) could be destructive. In this case, cleaning by neutral atoms excited in plasma to metastable state can be applied. Results of the same applications to surfaces of glass samples coated with Cr and ITO layers are shown in Fig. 3.\nAfter treatment, the contact angle of a water droplet is decreased becoming less than its value on the untreated surface. In Fig. 4, the relaxation curve for droplet footprint is shown for glass sample. A photograph of the same droplet on the untreated surface is shown in Fig. 4 inset. Surface relaxation time corresponding to a data shown in Fig. 4 is about 4 hours.\n\nPlasma ashing is the process in which plasma cleaning is performed for the sole purpose of removing carbon. Plasma ashing is always done with O gas.\n"}
{"id": "3421115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3421115", "title": "Rodrig Goliescu", "text": "Rodrig Goliescu\n\nRodrig Goliescu (1882–1942) was a Romanian inventor, engineer, and Lieutenant, who built the \"avioplan\", the first airplane with a tubular fuselage.The model, with a length of 1.2 m was successfully tested in 1909, having a take off angle of 30 degrees. The originality of this aircraft was the shape of the fuselage, designed for minimum drag and acting as a tube fan, similar to the way the modern vertical take off aircraft and helicopters are designed. This shape reduced drag and increased the efficiency of the propeller. Helped by the Minister of Education, Spiru Haret, who also helped Aurel Vlaicu, in 1909 he went to France to acquire an engine for his aircraft. In Paris he sent a survey \"Laws of air dynamics\" to the French Academy, study that was published in \"La France automobile et aérienne\" magazine, on 15 May 1909. Goliescu patented his invention in France (patent no. 402329). In the same year he learned to fly and he built an updated version of his aircraft, this time in full size. The aircraft had a half cylinder fuselage, but still the air from the propeller flowed through as in the first model. He flies with his aircraft for the first time, in November 1909, on Juvisy airfield, near Paris, and he reaches an altitude of about 50 m. It was for the first time to fly an aircraft with a tubed propeller.\n\nAfter his flights, only in 1932, the Italian engineer Luigi Stipa will build an aircraft with a \"barrel fuselage\" under the name of Stipa-Caproni but the concept will reach its dedication after the Second World War, being successfully implemented in helicopters like SA-365 Dauphin, RAH-66 Comanche or the new X-35 fighter.\n\nBetween 1932 and 1936, he flight tested his \"Aviocoleopter\", the first vertical take-off and landing aircraft.\n\n"}
{"id": "1168930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168930", "title": "Roll-away computer", "text": "Roll-away computer\n\nA roll-away computer is an idea introduced as part of a series by Toshiba in 2000, which aimed to predict the trends in personal computing five years into the future. Since its announcement, the roll-away computer has remained a theoretical device.\n\nA roll-away computer is a computer with a flexible polymer-based display technology, measuring 1 mm thick and weighing around 200 grams.\n\nThe first one is the Toshiba DynaSheet, named in homage to the Dynabook, an influential 1970s vision of the future of computers. The Dynasheet will feature wireless Gigabit Ethernet for LAN environments as well as 4 Mbit/s Bluetooth-V and UMTS-3 connectivity for mobile roaming in most of the countries of the world.\n\nFlexible and rollable displays started entering the market in 2006 (see electronic paper).\n\nThe R&D department of Seiko Epson has demonstrated a flexible active-matrix LCD panel (including the pixel thin film transistors and the peripheral TFT drivers), a flexible active-matrix OLED panel, the world's first flexible 8-bit asynchronous CPU (ACT11)—which uses the world's first flexible SRAM.\n\nUniversity of Tokyo researchers have demonstrated flexible flash memory.\n\nLG Corporation has demonstrated an 18-inch high-definition video display panel that can roll up into a 3 cm diameter tube.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9282401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9282401", "title": "Science and inventions of Leonardo da Vinci", "text": "Science and inventions of Leonardo da Vinci\n\nLeonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) was an Italian polymath, regarded as the epitome of the \"Renaissance Man\", displaying skills in numerous diverse areas of study. Whilst most famous for his paintings such as the \"Mona Lisa\" and the \"Last Supper\", Leonardo is also renowned in the fields of civil engineering, chemistry, geology, geometry, hydrodynamics, mathematics, mechanical engineering, optics, physics, pyrotechnics, and zoology.\n\nWhile the full extent of his scientific studies has only become recognized in the last 150 years, he was, during his lifetime, employed for his engineering and skill of invention. Many of his designs, such as the movable dikes to protect Venice from invasion, proved too costly or impractical. Some of his smaller inventions entered the world of manufacturing unheralded. As an engineer, Leonardo conceived ideas vastly ahead of his own time, conceptually inventing the parachute, an improved version of the helicopter, an armored fighting vehicle, the use of concentrated solar power, a calculator, a rudimentary theory of plate tectonics and the double hull . In practice, he greatly advanced the state of knowledge in the fields of anatomy, astronomy, civil engineering, optics, and the study of water (hydrodynamics).\n\nLeonardo's most famous drawing, the \"Vitruvian Man\", is a study of the proportions of the human body, linking art and science in a single work that has come to represent Renaissance Humanism.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci (April 15, 1452 – May 2, 1519) was born the illegitimate son of Messer Piero, a notary, and Caterina, a peasant woman. His early life was spent in the region of Vinci, in the valley of the Arno River near Florence, firstly with his mother and in later childhood in the household of his father, grandfather and uncle Francesco.\n\nHis curiosity and interest in scientific observation were stimulated by his uncle Francesco, while his grandfather's keeping of journals set an example which he was to follow for most of his life, diligently recording in his own journals both the events of the day, his visual observations, his plans and his projects. The journals of Leonardo contain matters as mundane as grocery lists and as remarkable as diagrams for the construction of a flying machine.\n\nIn 1466, Leonardo was sent to Florence to the workshop of the artist Verrocchio, in order to learn the skills of an artist. At the workshop, as well as painting and drawing, he learnt the study of topographical anatomy. He was also exposed to a very wide range of technical skills such as drafting, set construction, plasterworking, paint chemistry, and metallurgy.\nAmong the older artists whose work stimulated Leonardo's scientific interest was Piero della Francesca, then a man in his 60s, who was one of the earliest artists to systematically employ linear perspective in his paintings, and who had a greater understanding of the science of light than any other artist of his date. While Leonardo's teacher, Verrocchio, largely ignored Piero's scientifically disciplined approach to painting, Leonardo and Domenico Ghirlandaio, who also worked at Verrocchio's workshop, did not. Two of Leonardo's earliest paintings, both scenes of the \"Annunciation\" show his competent understanding of the linear perspective.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci was profoundly observant of nature, his curiosity having been stimulated in early childhood by his discovery of a deep cave in the mountains and his intense desire to know what lay inside. His earliest dated drawing, 1473, is of the valley of the Arno River, where he lived. It displays some of the many scientific interests that were to obsess him all his life, in particular geology and hydrology.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, the study of art and science was not perceived as mutually exclusive; on the contrary, the one was seen as informing upon the other. Although Leonardo's training was primarily as an artist, it was largely through his scientific approach to the art of painting, and his development of a style that coupled his scientific knowledge with his unique ability to render what he saw that created the outstanding masterpieces of art for which he is famous.\n\nAs a scientist, Leonardo had no formal education in Latin and mathematics and did not attend a university. Because of these factors, his scientific studies were largely ignored by other scholars. Leonardo's approach to science was one of intense observation and detailed recording, his tools of investigation being almost exclusively his eyes. His journals give insight into his investigative processes.\n\nA recent and exhaustive analysis of Leonardo as a scientist by Fritjof Capra argues that Leonardo was a fundamentally different kind of scientist from Galileo, Newton, and other scientists who followed him, his theorizing and hypothesizing integrating the arts and particularly painting. Capra sees Leonardo's unique integrated, holistic views of science as making him a forerunner of modern systems theory and complexity schools of thought.\n\nLeonardo kept a series of journals in which he wrote almost daily, as well as separate notes and sheets of observations, comments and plans. He wrote and drew with his left hand, and most of his writing is in mirror script, which makes it difficult to read. Much has survived to illustrate Leonardo's studies, discoveries and inventions.\n\nOn his death, his writings were left mainly to his pupil Melzi with the apparent intention that his scientific work should be published. This did not take place in Melzi's lifetime, and the writings were eventually bound in different forms and dispersed. Some of his works were published as a \"Treatise on Painting\" 165 years after his death.\n\nLeonardo illustrated a book on mathematical proportion in art written by his friend Luca Pacioli and called \"De divina proportione\", published in 1509. He was also preparing a major treatise on his scientific observations and mechanical inventions. It was to be divided into a number of sections or \"Books\", Leonardo leaving some instructions as to how they were to be ordered. Many sections of it appear in his notebooks.\n\nThese pages deal with scientific subjects generally but also specifically as they touch upon the creation of artworks. In relating to art, this is not science that is dependent upon experimentation or the testing of theories. It deals with detailed observation, particularly the observation of the natural world, and includes a great deal about the visual effects of light on different natural substances such as foliage.\n\nLeonardo wrote:\n\nBegun at Florence, in the house of Piero di Braccio Martelli, on the 22nd day of March 1508. And this is to be a collection without order, taken from many papers which I have copied here, hoping to arrange them later each in its place, according to the subjects of which they may treat. But I believe that before I am at the end of this [task] I shall have to repeat the same things several times; for which, O reader! do not blame me, for the subjects are many and memory cannot retain them [all] and say: ‘I will not write this because I wrote it before.’ And if I wished to avoid falling into this fault, it would be necessary in every case when I wanted to copy [a passage] that, not to repeat myself, I should read over all that had gone before; and all the more since the intervals are long between one time of writing and the next.\n\nLeonardo wrote:\n\nThe lights which may illuminate opaque bodies are of 4 kinds. These are; diffused light as that of the atmosphere; And Direct, as that of the sun; The third is Reflected light; and there is a 4th which is that which passes through [translucent] bodies, as linen or paper etc.\n\nFor an artist working in the 15th century, some study of the nature of light was essential. It was by the effective painting of light falling on a surface that \"modelling\", or a three-dimensional appearance was to be achieved in a two-dimensional medium. It was also well understood by artists like Leonardo's teacher, Verrocchio, that an appearance of space and distance could be achieved in a background landscape by painting in tones that were less in contrast and colors that were less bright than in the foreground of the painting. The effects of light on solids were achieved by trial and error, since few artists except Piero della Francesca actually had accurate scientific knowledge of the subject.\n\nAt the time when Leonardo commenced painting, it was unusual for figures to be painted with extreme contrast of light and shade. Faces, in particular, were shadowed in a manner that was bland and maintained all the features and contours clearly visible. Leonardo broke with this.\nIn the painting generally titled \"The Lady with an Ermine\" (about 1483) he sets the figure diagonally to the picture space and turns her head so that her face is almost parallel to her nearer shoulder. The back of her head and the further shoulder are deeply shadowed. Around the ovoid solid of her head and across her breast and hand the light is diffused in such a way that the distance and position of the light in relation to the figure can be calculated.\n\nLeonardo's treatment of light in paintings such as \"The Virgin of the Rocks\" and the \"Mona Lisa\" was to change forever the way in which artists perceived light and used it in their paintings. Of all Leonardo's scientific legacies, this is probably the one that had the most immediate and noticeable effect.\n\nLeonardo wrote:\n\n...to obtain a true and perfect knowledge ... I have dissected more than ten human bodies, destroying all the other members, and removing the very minutest particles of the flesh by which these veins are surrounded, ... and as one single body would not last so long, since it was necessary to proceed with several bodies by degrees, until I came to an end and had a complete knowledge; this I repeated twice, to learn the differences...\n\nLeonardo began the formal study of the topographical anatomy of the human body when apprenticed to Andrea del Verrocchio. As a student he would have been taught to draw the human body from life, to memorize the muscles, tendons and visible subcutaneous structure and to familiarise himself with the mechanics of the various parts of the skeletal and muscular structure. It was common workshop practice to have plaster casts of parts of the human anatomy available for students to study and draw.\n\nIf, as is thought to be the case, Leonardo painted the torso and arms of Christ in \"The Baptism of Christ\" on which he famously collaborated with his master Verrocchio, then his understanding of topographical anatomy had surpassed that of his master at an early age as can be seen by a comparison of the arms of Christ with those of John the Baptist in the same painting.\n\nIn the 1490s he wrote about demonstrating muscles and sinews to students:\n\nRemember that to be certain of the point of origin of any muscle, you must pull the sinew from which the muscle springs in such a way as to see that muscle move, and where it is attached to the ligaments of the bones.\n\nHis continued investigations in this field occupied many pages of notes, each dealing systematically with a particular aspect of anatomy. It appears that the notes were intended for publication, a task entrusted on his death to his pupil Melzi.\n\nIn conjunction with studies of aspects of the body are drawings of faces displaying different emotions and many drawings of people suffering facial deformity, either congenital or through illness. Some of these drawings, generally referred to as \"caricatures\", on analysis of the skeletal proportions, appear to be based on anatomical studies.\n\nAs Leonardo became successful as an artist, he was given permission to dissect human corpses at the hospital Santa Maria Nuova in Florence. Later he dissected in Milan at the hospital Maggiore and in Rome at the hospital Santo Spirito (the first mainland Italian hospital). From 1510 to 1511 he collaborated in his studies with the doctor Marcantonio della Torre.\n\nI have removed the skin from a man who was so shrunk by illness that the muscles were worn down and remained in a state like thin membrane, in such a way that the sinews instead of merging in muscles ended in wide membrane; and where the bones were covered by the skin they had very little over their natural size.\n\nIn 30 years, Leonardo dissected 30 male and female corpses of different ages. Together with Marcantonio, he prepared to publish a theoretical work on anatomy and made more than 200 drawings. However, his book was published only in 1680 (161 years after his death) under the heading \"Treatise on painting\".\n\nAmong the detailed images that Leonardo drew are many studies of the human skeleton. He was the first to describe the double S form of the backbone. He also studied the inclination of pelvis and sacrum and stressed that sacrum was not uniform, but composed of five fused vertebrae. He also studied the anatomy of the human foot and its connection to the leg, and from these studies, he was able to further his studies in biomechanics.\n\nLeonardo was a physiologist as well as an anatomist, studying the function of the human body as well as examining and recording its structure. He dissected and drew the human skull and cross-sections of the brain, transversal, sagittal, and frontal. These drawings may be linked to a search for the \"sensus communis\", the locus of the human senses, which, by Medieval tradition, was located at the exact physical center of the skull.\n\nLeonardo studied internal organs, being the first to draw the human appendix and the lungs, mesentery, urinary tract, reproductive organs, the muscles of the cervix and a detailed cross-section of coitus. He was one of the first to draw a scientific representation of the fetus in the intrautero.\n\nLeonardo studied the vascular system and drew a dissected heart in detail. He correctly worked out how heart valves ebb the flow of blood yet he did not fully understand circulation as he believed that blood was pumped to the muscles where it was consumed. In 2005 a UK heart surgeon, Francis Wells, from Papworth Hospital Cambridge, pioneered repair to damaged hearts, using Leonardo's depiction of the opening phase of the mitral valve to operate without changing its diameter allowing an individual to recover more quickly. Wells said \"Leonardo had a depth of appreciation of the anatomy and physiology of the body - its structure and function - that perhaps has been overlooked by some.\"\n\nLeonardo's observational acumen, drawing skill, and the clarity of depiction of bone structures reveal him at his finest as an anatomist. However, his depiction of the internal soft tissues of the body are incorrect in many ways, showing that he maintained concepts of anatomy and functioning that were in some cases millennia old, and that his investigations were probably hampered by the lack of preservation techniques available at the time. Leonardo's detailed drawing of the internal organs of a woman reveal many traditional misconceptions.\n\nLeonardo's study of human anatomy led also to the design of an automaton which has come to be called Leonardo's robot, was probably made around the year 1495 but was rediscovered only in the 1950s.\n\nLeonardo not only studied human anatomy, but the anatomy of many other animals as well. He dissected cows, birds, monkeys and frogs, comparing in his drawings their anatomical structure with that of humans. On one page of his journal Leonardo drew five profile studies of a horse with its teeth bared in anger and, for comparison, a snarling lion and a snarling man.\n\nI have found that in the composition of the human body as compared with the bodies of animals, the organs of sense are duller and coarser... I have seen in the Lion tribe that the sense of smell is connected with part of the substance of the brain which comes down the nostrils, which form a spacious receptacle for the sense of smell, which enters by a great number of cartilaginous vesicles with several passages leading up to where the brain, as before said, comes down.\n\nIn the early 1490s Leonardo was commissioned to create a monument in honour of Francesco Sforza. In his notebooks are a series of plans for an equestrian monument. There are also a large number of related anatomical studies of horses. They include several diagrams of a standing horse with the angles and proportions annotated, anatomical studies of horses' heads, a dozen detailed drawings of hooves and numerous studies and sketches of horses rearing.\n\nHe studied the topographical anatomy of a bear in detail, making many drawings of its paws. There is also a drawing of the muscles and tendons of the bear's hind feet.\nOther drawings of particular interest include the uterus of a pregnant cow, the hindquarters of a decrepit mule and studies of the musculature of a little dog.\n\nLeonardo wrote:\n\nAll the branches of a tree at every stage of its height when put together are equal in thickness to the trunk [below them].\n\nThe science of botany was long established by Leonardo's time, a treatise on the subject having been written as early as 300 BCE. Leonardo's study of plants, resulting in many beautiful drawings in his notebooks, was not to record in diagramatic form the parts of the plant, but rather, as an artist and observer to record the precise appearance of plants, the manner of growth and the way that individual plants and flowers of a single variety differed from one another.\n\nOne such study shows a page with several species of flower of which ten drawings are of wild violets. Along with a drawing of the growing plant and a detail of a leaf, Leonardo has repeatedly drawn single flowers from different angles, with their heads set differently on the stem.\n\nApart from flowers the notebooks contain many drawings of crop plants including several types of grain and a variety of berries including a detailed study of bramble. There are also water plants such as irises and sedge. His notebooks also direct the artist to observe how light reflects from foliage at different distances and under different atmospheric conditions.\n\nA number of the drawings have their equivalents in Leonardo's paintings. An elegant study of a stem of lilies may have been for one of Leonardo's early Annunciation paintings, carried in the hand of the Archangel Gabriel. In both the Annunciation pictures the grass is dotted with blossoming plants.\n\nThe plants which appear in both the versions of \"The Virgin of the Rocks\" demonstrate the results of Leonardo's studies in a meticulous realism that makes each plant readily identifiable to the botanist.\n\nAs an adult, Leonardo had only two childhood memories, one of which was the finding of a cave in the Apennines. Although fearing that he might be attacked by a wild beast, he ventured in driven \"by the burning desire to see whether there might be any marvelous thing within.\"\n\nLeonardo's earliest dated drawing is a study of the Arno Valley, strongly emphasizing its geological features. His notebooks contain landscapes with a wealth of geological observation from the regions of both Florence and Milan, often including atmospheric effects such as a heavy rainstorm pouring down on a town at the foot of a mountain range.\n\nIt had been observed for many years that strata in mountains often contained bands of sea shells. Conservative science said that these could be explained by the Great Flood described in the Bible. Leonardo's observations convinced him that this could not possibly be the case.\n\nAnd a little beyond the sandstone conglomerate, a tufa has been formed, where it turned towards Castel Florentino; farther on, the mud was deposited in which the shells lived, and which rose in layers according to the levels at which the turbid Arno flowed into that sea. And from time to time the bottom of the sea was raised, depositing these shells in layers, as may be seen in the cutting at Colle Gonzoli, laid open by the Arno which is wearing away the base of it; in which cutting the said layers of shells are very plainly to be seen in clay of a bluish colour, and various marine objects are found there.\n\nThis quotation makes clear the breadth of Leonardo's understanding of geology, including the action of water in creating sedimentary rock, the tectonic action of the Earth in raising the sea bed and the action of erosion in the creation of geographical features.\n\nIn Leonardo's earliest paintings we see the remarkable attention given to the small landscapes of the background, with lakes and water, swathed in a misty light. In the larger of the Annunciation paintings is a town on the edge of a lake. Although distant, the mountains can be seen to be scored by vertical strata. This characteristic can be observed in other paintings by Leonardo, and closely resembles the mountains around Lago di Garda and Lago d'Iseo in Northern Italy. It is a particular feature of both the paintings of \"The Virgin of the Rocks\", which also include caverns of fractured, tumbled, and water-eroded limestone.\n\nIn the early 16th century maps were rare and often inaccurate. Leonardo produced several extremely accurate maps such as the town plan of Imola created in 1502 in order to win the patronage of Cesare Borgia. Borgia was so impressed that he hired him as a military engineer and architect. Leonardo also produced a map of Chiana Valley in Tuscany, which he surveyed, without the benefit of modern equipment, by pacing the distances. In 1515, Leonardo produced a map of the Roman Southern Coast which is linked to his work for the Vatican and relates to his plans to drain the marshland.\n\nRecent research by Donato Pezzutto suggests that the background landscapes in Leonardo’s paintings depict specific locations as aerial views with enhanced depth, employing a technique called cartographic perspective. Pezzutto identifies the location of the \"Mona Lisa\" to the Val di Chiana, the \"Annunciation\" to the Arno Valley, the \"Madonna of the Yarnwinder\" to the Adda Valley and \"The Virgin and Child with St Anne\" to the Sessia Valley.\n\nLeonardo wrote:\n\nAll the branches of a water [course] at every stage of its course, if they are of equal rapidity, are equal to the body of the main stream.\n\nAmong Leonardo's drawings are many that are studies of the motion of water, in particular the forms taken by fast-flowing water on striking different surfaces.\n\nMany of these drawings depict the spiralling nature of water. The spiral form had been studied in the art of the Classical era and strict mathematical proportion had been applied to its use in art and architecture. An awareness of these rules of proportion had been revived in the early Renaissance. In Leonardo's drawings can be seen the investigation of the spiral as it occurs in water.\n\nThere are several elaborate drawings of water curling over an object placed at a diagonal to its course. There are several drawings of water dropping from a height and curling upwards in spiral forms. One such drawing, as well as curling waves, shows splashes and details of spray and bubbles.\n\nLeonardo's interest manifested itself in the drawing of streams and rivers, the action of water in eroding rocks, and the cataclysmic action of water in floods and tidal waves. The knowledge that he gained from his studies was employed in devising a range of projects, particularly in relation to the Arno River. None of the major works was brought to completion.\n\nThe earth is not in the centre of the Sun’s orbit nor at the centre of the universe, but in the centre of its companion elements, and united with them. And any one standing on the moon, when it and the sun are both beneath us, would see this our earth and the element of water upon it just as we see the moon, and the earth would light it as it lights us.\n\nClaims are sometimes made that Leonardo da Vinci was an alchemist. He was trained in the workshop of Verrocchio, who according to Vasari, was an able alchemist. Leonardo was a chemist in so much as that he experimented with different media for suspending paint pigment. In the painting of murals, his experiments resulted in notorious failures with the \"Last Supper\" deteriorating within a century, and the \"Battle of Anghiari\" running off the wall. In Leonardo's many pages of notes about artistic processes, there are some that pertain to the use of silver and gold in artworks, information he would have learned as a student.\n\nLeonardo's scientific process was based mainly upon observation. His practical experiments are also founded in observation rather than belief. Leonardo, who questioned the order of the solar system and the deposit of fossils by the Great Flood, had little time for the alchemical quests to turn lead into gold or create a potion that gave eternal life.\n\nLeonardo said about alchemists:\n\nThe false interpreters of nature declare that quicksilver is the common seed of every metal, not remembering that nature varies the seed according to the variety of the things she desires to produce in the world.\n\nOld alchemists... have never either by chance or by experiment succeeded in creating the smallest element that can be created by nature; however [they] deserve unmeasured praise for the usefulness of things invented for the use of men, and would deserve it even more if they had not been the inventors of noxious things like poisons and other similar things which destroy life or mind.\"\"\n\nAnd many have made a trade of delusions and false miracles, deceiving the stupid multitude.\n\nThe art of perspective is of such a nature as to make what is flat appear in relief and what is in relief flat.\n\nDuring the early 15th century, both Brunelleschi and Alberti made studies of linear perspective. In 1436 Alberti published \"della Pittura\" (\"On Painting\"), which includes his findings on linear perspective. Piero della Francesca carried his work forward and by the 1470s a number of artists were able to produce works of art that demonstrated a full understanding of the principles of linear perspective. \n\nLeonardo studied linear perspective and employed it in his earlier paintings. His use of perspective in the two Annunciations is daring, as he uses various features such as the corner of a building, a walled garden and a path to contrast enclosure and spaciousness.\n\nThe unfinished \"Adoration of the Magi\" was intended to be a masterpiece revealing much of Leonardo's knowledge of figure drawing and perspective. There exists a number of studies that he made, including a detailed study of the perspective, showing the complex background of ruined Classical buildings that he planned for the left of the picture. In addition, Leonardo is credited with the first use of anamorphosis, the use of a \"perspective\" to produce an image that is intelligible only with a curved mirror or from a specific vantage point.\n\nLeonardo wrote:\n\nThose who are in love with practice without knowledge are like the sailor who gets into a ship without rudder or compass and who never can be certain whether he is going. Practice must always be founded on sound theory, and to this Perspective is the guide and the gateway; and without this nothing can be done well in the matter of drawing.\n\nWhile in Milan in 1496 Leonardo met a traveling monk and academic, Luca Pacioli. Under him, Leonardo studied mathematics. Pacioli, who first codified and recorded the double entry system of bookkeeping, had already published a major treatise on mathematical knowledge, collaborated with Leonardo in the production of a book called \"De divina proportione\" about mathematical and artistic proportion. Leonardo prepared a series of drawings of regular solids in a skeletal form to be engraved as plates. \"De divina proportione\" was published in 1509.\n\nAll the problems of perspective are made clear by the five terms of mathematicians, which are:—the point, the line, the angle, the superficies and the solid. The point is unique of its kind. And the point has neither height, breadth, length, nor depth, whence it is to be regarded as indivisible and as having no dimensions in space.\n\nVasari in \"Lives of the Artists\" says of Leonardo:\n\nHe made designs for mills, fulling machines and engines that could be driven by water-power... In addition he used to make models and plans showing how to excavate and tunnel through mountains without difficulty, so as to pass from one level to another; and he demonstrated how to lift and draw great weights by means of levers, hoists and winches, and ways of cleansing harbours and using pumps to suck up water from great depths.\n\nLeonardo was a master of mechanical principles. He utilized leverage and cantilevering, pulleys, cranks, gears, including angle gears and rack and pinion gears; parallel linkage, lubrication systems and bearings. He understood the principles governing momentum, centripetal force, friction and the aerofoil and applied these to his inventions. His scientific studies remained unpublished with, for example, his manuscripts describing the processes governing friction predating the introduction of Amontons' Laws of Friction by 150 years.\n\nIt is impossible to say with any certainty how many or even which of his inventions passed into general and practical use, and thereby had impact over the lives of many people. Among those inventions that are credited with passing into general practical use are the strut bridge, the automated bobbin winder, the rolling mill, the machine for testing the tensile strength of wire and the lens-grinding machine pictured at right. In the lens-grinding machine, the hand rotation of the grinding wheel operates an angle-gear, which rotates a shaft, turning a geared dish in which sits the glass or crystal to be ground. A single action rotates both surfaces at a fixed speed ratio determined by the gear.\n\nAs an inventor, Leonardo was not prepared to tell all that he knew:\n\nHow by means of a certain machine many people may stay some time under water. How and why I do not describe my method of remaining under water, or how long I can stay without eating; and I do not publish nor divulge these by reason of the evil nature of men who would use them as means of destruction at the bottom of the sea, by sending ships to the bottom, and sinking them together with the men in them. And although I will impart others, there is no danger in them; because the mouth of the tube, by which you breathe, is above the water supported on bags of corks.\n\nLeonardo's study of the motion of water led him to design machinery that utilized its force. Much of his work on hydraulics was for Ludovico il Moro. Leonardo wrote to Ludovico describing his skills and what he could build:\n\n…very light and strong bridges that can easily be carried, with which to pursue, and sometimes flee from, the enemy; and others safe and indestructible by fire or assault, easy and convenient to transport and place into position.\n\nAmong his projects in Florence was one to divert the course of the Arno, in order to flood Pisa. Fortunately, this was too costly to be carried out. He also surveyed Venice and came up with a plan to create a movable dyke for the city's protection against invaders.\n\nIn 1502, Leonardo produced a drawing of a single span 240 m (720 ft) bridge as part of a civil engineering project for Ottoman Sultan Beyazid II of Istanbul. The bridge was intended to span an inlet at the mouth of the Bosphorus known as the Golden Horn. Beyazid did not pursue the project, because he believed that such a construction was impossible. Leonardo's vision was resurrected in 2001 when a smaller bridge based on his design was constructed in Norway.\n\nLeonardo's letter to Ludovico il Moro assured him:\n\nWhen a place is besieged I know how to cut off water from the trenches and construct an infinite variety of bridges, mantlets and scaling ladders, and other instruments pertaining to sieges. I also have types of mortars that are very convenient and easy to transport... when a place cannot be reduced by the method of bombardment either because of its height or its location, I have methods for destroying any fortress or other stronghold, even if it be founded upon rock. ...If the engagement be at sea, I have many engines of a kind most efficient for offence and defence, and ships that can resist cannons and powder.\n\nIn Leonardo's notebooks there is an array of war machines which includes a vehicle to be propelled by two men powering crank shafts. Although the drawing itself looks quite finished, the mechanics were apparently not fully developed because, if built as drawn, the vehicle would never progress in a forward direction. In a BBC documentary, a military team built the machine and changed the gears in order to make the machine work. It has been suggested that Leonardo deliberately left this error in the design, in order to prevent it from being put to practice by unauthorized people. Another machine, propelled by horses with a pillion rider, carries in front of it four scythes mounted on a revolving gear, turned by a shaft driven by the wheels of a cart behind the horses.\n\nLeonardo's notebooks also show cannons which he claimed \"to hurl small stones like a storm with the smoke of these causing great terror to the enemy, and great loss and confusion.\" He also designed an enormous crossbow. Following his detailed drawing, one was constructed by the British Army, but could not be made to fire successfully. In 1481 Leonardo designed a breech-loading, water cooled cannon with three racks of barrels allowed the re-loading of one rack while another was being fired and thus maintaining continuous fire power. The \"fan type\" gun with its array of horizontal barrels allowed for a wide scattering of shot.\n\nLeonardo was the first to sketch the wheel-lock musket c. 1500 AD (the precedent of the flintlock musket which first appeared in Europe by 1547), although as early as the 14th century the Chinese had used a flintlock 'steel wheel' in order to detonate land mines.\n\nWhile Leonardo was working in Venice, he drew a sketch for an early diving suit, to be used in the destruction of enemy ships entering Venetian waters. A suit was constructed for a BBC documentary using pigskin treated with fish oil to repel water. The head was covered by a helmet with two eyeglasses at the front. A breathing tube of bamboo with pigskin joints was attached to the back of the helmet and connected to a float of cork and wood. When the scuba divers tested the suit, they found it to be a workable precursor to a modern diving suit, the cork float acting as a compressed air chamber when submerged.\nHis inventions were very futuristic which meant they were very expensive and proved not to be useful.\n\nIn Leonardo's infancy a hawk had once hovered over his cradle. Recalling this incident, Leonardo saw it as prophetic.\n\nAn object offers as much resistance to the air as the air does to the object. You may see that the beating of its wings against the air supports a heavy eagle in the highest and rarest atmosphere, close to the sphere of elemental fire. Again you may see the air in motion over the sea, fill the swelling sails and drive heavily laden ships. From these instances, and the reasons given, a man with wings large enough and duly connected might learn to overcome the resistance of the air, and by conquering it, succeed in subjugating it and rising above it.\n\nThe desire to fly is expressed in the many studies and drawings. His later journals contain a detailed study of the flight of birds and several different designs for wings based in structure upon those of bats which he described as being less heavy because of the impenetrable nature of the membrane. There is a legend that Leonardo tested the flying machine on Monte Ceceri with one of his apprentices, and that the apprentice fell and broke his leg. Experts Martin Kemp and Liana Bortolon agree that there is no evidence of such a test, which is not mentioned in his journals.\n\nOne design that he produced shows a flying machine to be lifted by a man-powered rotor. It would not have worked since the body of the craft itself would have rotated in the opposite direction to the rotor.\n\nWhile he designed a number of man powered flying machines with mechanical wings that flapped, he also designed a parachute and a light hang glider which could have flown.\n\nThe viola organista was an experimental musical instrument invented by Leonardo da Vinci. It was the first bowed keyboard instrument (of which any record has survived) ever to be devised.\n\nLeonardo's original idea, as preserved in his notebooks of 1488–1489 and in the drawings in the Codex Atlanticus, was to use one or more wheels, continuously rotating, each of which pulled a looping bow, rather like a fanbelt in an automobile engine, and perpendicular to the instrument's strings.\n\nIn the late 20th century, interest in Leonardo's inventions escalated. There have been many projects which have sought to turn diagrams on paper into working models. One of the factors is the awareness that, although in the 15th and 16th centuries Leonardo had available a limited range of materials, modern technological advancements have made available a number of robust materials of light-weight which might turn Leonardo's designs into reality. This is particularly the case with his designs for flying machines.\n\nA difficulty encountered in the creation of models is that often Leonardo had not entirely thought through the mechanics of a machine before he drew it, or else he used a sort of graphic shorthand, simply not bothering to draw a gear or a lever at a point where one is essential in order to make a machine function. This lack of refinement of mechanical details can cause considerable confusion. Thus many models that are created, such as some of those on display at Clos Luce, Leonardo's home in France, do not work, but would work, with a little mechanical tweaking.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "329099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329099", "title": "Secret decoder ring", "text": "Secret decoder ring\n\nA secret decoder ring (or secret decoder) is a device which allows one to decode a simple substitution cipher - or to encrypt a message by working in the opposite direction.\n\nAs inexpensive toys, they have been often used as promotional items by retailers, radio and television programs from the 1930s through to the current day.\nDecoders, whether badges or rings, are a fun way for children to tap into a common fascination with encryption, ciphers, and secret codes, and are used to send hidden messages back and forth to one another.\n\nSecret decoders are generally circular scales, descendants of the cipher disk developed in the 15th century by Leon Battista Alberti. Rather than the complex polyalphabetic Alberti cipher method, the decoders for children invariably use simple Caesar cipher substitutions.\n\nThe most well-known example started in 1934 with the Ovaltine company's sponsored radio program \"Little Orphan Annie\". The fan club's member's handbook included a simple substitution cipher with a resulting numeric cipher text. This was followed the next year with a membership badge or pin that included a cipher disk - enciphering the letters A-Z to numbers 1-26. Similar badges and pocket decoders continued with the \"Captain Midnight\" radio and television programs.\n\nNone of these early decoders were in the form of finger rings, but \"secret compartment\" rings were common radio program premiums and in the early 1960s secret decoder rings appeared - notably in conjunction with the \"Jonny Quest\" television program sponsored by PF Shoes. A later, less ornate, decoder ring was offered by Kix Cereals. and the men's magazine \"Oui\" offered a Captain Jet Decoder Ring- and in 2000 Ovaltine offered a Secret Decoder Ring to be worn on the finger which used their traditional A-Z to 1-26 scheme.\n\nOvaltine and other companies that marketed early decoders to children often included \"secret messages\" on their radio shows aimed at children. These could be decoded for a preview of the next episode of the show.\n\nThe film \"A Christmas Story\" (1983)\ndepicts the \"Little Orphan Annie\" radio show transmitting a secret message that deciphered to: \"Be sure to drink your Ovaltine.\" This, however, is incorrect. Although the announcer instructed the listeners to set their decoder rings to \"B-2\", thus indicating that the letter \"B\" (the first letter in the supposedly decoded message) was represented by the number \"2\", the first code number in the message was not \"2\". As Ralphie decodes the message, his pin is clearly set on \"B-12\".\n\nDecoder rings are mentioned by Arnold Schwarzenegger's character in Last Action Hero.\n\n"}
{"id": "24645104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24645104", "title": "Selex ES Falco", "text": "Selex ES Falco\n\nThe Falco (English: hawk) is a tactical unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) designed and produced by Selex ES (now Leonardo formerly Leonardo-Finmeccanica and Finmeccanica, originally by Galileo Avionica of Italy). The UAV is designed to be a medium-altitude, medium-endurance surveillance platform capable of carrying a range of payloads, including several types of high resolution sensors. A larger variant, the Falco EVO, is capable of carrying larger payloads is also available. Neither system is designed to carry weapons, The launch customer, Pakistan, reportedly wanted the Falco armed, a request that Italy rejected.\n\n\nThe Falco UAV System comprises:\n\nThe Falco UAV is long, high, has a wingspan and a top speed of . A maximum altitude of around and endurance of up to 14 hours can be attained. As well as providing the Falco air vehicle, Selex ES offers a range of sensors, including EOST 46 electro-optical/infrared turret, Gabbiano 20 multi-mode surveillance radar and the PicoSAR radar. The latter is a compact, active \"e-scan\" radar providing synthetic aperture radar imagery and ground moving target indication. When used in conjunction with change detection software, the PicoSAR can be a powerful counter-IED tool. The Falco can also carry the SAGE electronic warfare suite for accurate direction-finding, classification and geo-location of emitters.\n\nThe Falco EVO System has a payload capacity of up to 100 kg and an extended endurance of up to 18 hours.\n\nFalco is the only tactical UAS entirely developed in Europe to have been exported and used in operations. Elbit of Israel has also ordered the Selex ES Gabbiano radar for the Hermes 450 and 900 UAVs, for long-range surveillance cover over land or sea, with applications including synthetic aperture radar (SAR) and inverse SAR imagery modes. Selex ES has not commented on operators but the Falco has been reported as being acquired by the following countries:\n\nIt has been deployed by Pakistan's military, after the purchase of 24 planes, to the Swat Valley, and a partnership is planned between Selex Galileo partner and the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex, a state-owned defense manufacturer, to produce the Falco in Pakistan. The Falco does not carry armaments and has no strike capability. The U.S. has refused to sell Pakistan its more advanced UAVs over concerns about \"sensitive data\". The word Falco means hawk in Italian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13224789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13224789", "title": "Sextant (astronomical)", "text": "Sextant (astronomical)\n\nSextants for astronomical observations were devices depicting a sixth of a circle, used primarily for measuring the positions of stars. They are of significant historical importance, but have been replaced over time by transit telescopes, astrometry techniques, and satellites such as Hipparcos.\n\nThere are two types of astronomical sextants, mural instruments and frame-based instruments.\n\nThe first known mural sextant was constructed in Ray, Iran, by Abu-Mahmud al-Khujandi in 994. To measure the obliquity of the ecliptic, al-Khujandī invented a device that he called al-Fakhri sextant (al-suds al Fakhrī), a reference to his patron, Buwayhid ruler, Fakhr al Dawla (976-997). This instrument was a sixty-degree arc on a wall aligned along a meridian arc (north-south line). Al Khujandi’s instrument was larger than previous instruments; it had a radius of about twenty meters. The main improvement incorporated in al-Fakhri sextants over earlier instruments was bringing the precision of reading to seconds while older instruments could only be read in degrees and minutes. This was confirmed by al-Birūni, al-Marrākushī and al-Kāshī. Al-Khujandī used his device to measure the sun's angle above the horizon at the summer and winter solstices; these two measurements allow computation of the latitude of the sextant's location and the obliquity of the ecliptic.\n\nUlugh Beg constructed a Fakhri Sextant that had a radius of 40.4 meters, the largest instrument of its type in the 15th century. Housed in the Ulugh Beg Observatory, the sextant had a finely constructed arc with a staircase on either side to provide access for the assistants who performed the measurements.\n\nA sextant based on a large metal frame had an advantage over a mural instrument in that it could be used at any orientation. This allows the measure of angular distances between astronomical bodies.\n\nThese instruments differ substantially from a navigator's sextant in that the latter is a reflecting instrument. The navigator's sextant uses mirrors to bring the image of the sun, moon or a star to the horizon and measure the altitude of the object. Due to the use of the mirrors, the angle measured is twice the length of the instrument's arc. Hence, the navigator's sextant measures 120° on an arc with an included angle of 60°. By comparison, the astronomical sextants are large and measure angles directly — a 60° arc will measure at most 60°.\n\nThese large sextants are made primarily of wood, brass or a combination of both materials. The frame is heavy enough to be stiff and provide reliable measures without flexural changes in the instrument compromising the quality of the observation. The frame is mounted on a support structure that holds it in position while in use. In some cases, the position of the sextant can be adjusted to allow measurements to be made with any instrument orientation. Owing to the size and weight of the instrument, attention was paid to balancing it so that it could be moved with ease.\n\nObservations were typically made with an alidade, though newer versions could use a telescope. In some cases, a system of counter-weights and pulleys were used to allow the observer to manipulate the instrument in spite of its size.\n\nThese instruments were used in much the same way as smaller instruments, with effort possibly scaled due to the size. Some of the instruments might have needed more than one person to operate.\n\nIf the sextant is permanently fixed in position, only the position of the alidade or similar index need be determined. In that case, the observer moved the alidade until the object of interest is centered in the sights and then reads the graduations marked on the arc.\n\nFor instruments that could be moved, the process was more complex. It was necessary to sight the object with two lines. The edge of the instrument would typically be supplied with sights and the instrument was aligned with one of the two objects of interest. The alidade was then aligned with the second object as well. Once each object was centred in one set of sights, the reading could be taken. This could be a challenge for a moving star observed with a very large instrument as a single person might not be able to confirm both sights with ease; an assistant was a great benefit. The illustration of the Hevelius instrument to the right shows how two persons would use such a sextant: his wife Elisabetha is aligning the instrument while Johannes sets the alidade.\n\n"}
{"id": "8998322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8998322", "title": "Sokha", "text": "Sokha\n\nIn Russia, Finland, and a few nearby countries, a sokha (, ) is a light wooden ard, consisting of two body ards, with their parallel beams forming the two shafts for a single horse-drawn tillage implement with two socket shares (рассоха). In later types the double body is combined into one wooden board. Chronicles and other literary sources show that the sokha was in use in Russia at least since the 13th century. It originated from northern Russia, e.g., around Novgorod.\n\nThe sokha adapts the body ard to a single-animal harness following the pattern of a shaft-drawn cart and adds a spade-like component that turned over the soil. (On ploughs the curved mouldboard both cuts and turns the soil.) Other design features can vary depending on local building custom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2459057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2459057", "title": "Spin polarization", "text": "Spin polarization\n\nSpin polarization is the degree to which the spin, i.e., the intrinsic angular momentum of elementary particles, is aligned with a given direction. This property may pertain to the spin, hence to the magnetic moment, of conduction electrons in ferromagnetic metals, such as iron, giving rise to spin-polarized currents. It may refer to (static) spin waves, preferential correlation\nof spin orientation with ordered lattices (semiconductors or insulators).\n\nIt may also pertain to beams of particles, produced for particular aims, such as polarized neutron scattering or muon spin spectroscopy. Spin polarization of electrons or of nuclei, often called simply magnetization, is also produced by the application of a magnetic field. Curie law is used to produce an induction signal in Electron spin resonance (ESR or EPR) and in Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR).\n\nSpin polarization is also important for spintronics, a branch of electronics. Magnetic semiconductors are being researched as possible spintronic materials.\n\nThe spin of free electrons is measured either by a LEED image from a clean wolfram-crystal (SPLEED) or by an electron microscope composed purely of electrostatic lenses and a gold foil as a sample. Back scattered electrons are decelerated by annular optics and focused onto a ring shaped electron multiplier at about 15°. The position on the ring is recorded. This whole device is called a Mott-detector. Depending on their spin the electrons have the chance to hit the ring at different positions. 1% of the electrons are scattered in the foil. Of these 1% are collected by the detector and then about 30% of the electrons hit the detector at the wrong position. Both devices work due to spin orbit coupling.\n\nThe circular polarization of electromagnetic fields is due to spin polarization of their constituent photons.\n\nIn the most generic context, spin polarization is any alignment of the components of a non-scalar\n(vectorial, tensorial, spinor) field with its arguments, i.e., with the nonrelativistic three spatial or\nrelativistic four spatiotemporal regions over which it is defined. In this sense, it also includes\ngravitational waves and any field theory that couples its constituents with the differential\noperators of vector analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "18578040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18578040", "title": "Staged combustion", "text": "Staged combustion\n\nStaged combustion is a method for reducing nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions from combustion. There are two methods - air staged supply and fuel staged supply. Applications include boilers and rocket engines.\n\n\n\nStaged combustion dates back to the hot bulb engine of the 1890s. The first stage of combustion occurred inside the hot bulb and the hot gases were then forced out into the cylinder, where they mixed with additional air, and the second stage of combustion took place. At this time, staged combustion was used because it was a convenient method of ignition and it is unlikely that there would have been much concern about air pollution. A modern application of the principle is the Stratified charge engine, in which a rich mixture is ignited by a spark and the resulting flame-front ignites the weaker mixture elsewhere in the cylinder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "262663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262663", "title": "Tampon", "text": "Tampon\n\nA tampon is a feminine hygiene product designed to absorb the menstrual flow by insertion into the vagina during menstruation. Once inserted correctly a tampon is held in place by the vagina and expands as it soaks up menstrual blood. The majority of tampons sold are made of rayon, or a blend of rayon and cotton. Tampons are available in several absorbency ratings. \n\nThe average woman may use approximately 11,400 tampons in her lifetime (if she uses only tampons rather than other products). \n\nSeveral countries regulate tampons as medical devices. In the United States, they are considered to be a Class II medical device by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). They are sometimes used for hemostasis in surgery.\n\nTampon design varies between companies and across product lines in order to offer a variety of applicators, materials and absorbencies. There are two main categories of tampons based on the way of insertion - digital tampons inserted by finger and applicator tampons. Tampon applicators may be made of plastic or cardboard, and are similar in design to a syringe. The applicator consists of two tubes, an \"outer\", or barrel, and \"inner\", or plunger. The outer tube has a smooth surface to aid insertion and sometimes comes with a rounded end that is petaled.\n\nThe two main differences are in the way the tampon expands when in use; applicator tampons generally expand axially (increase in length), while digital tampons will expand radially (increase in diameter). Most tampons have a cord or string for removal. The majority of tampons sold are made of rayon, or a blend of rayon and cotton. Organic cotton tampons are made from only 100% cotton.\n\nTampons are available in several absorbency ratings, which are consistent across manufacturers in the U.S.:\n\nAbsorbency ratings outside the US may be different. The majority of non-US manufacturers use absorbency rating and Code of Practice recommended by EDANA (European Disposals and Nonwovens Association).\n\nA piece of test equipment referred to as a Syngina (short for synthetic Vagina) is usually used to test absorbency. The machine uses a condom into which the tampon is inserted, and synthetic menstrual fluid is fed into the test chamber.\n\nToxic shock syndrome was named by Dr. James K.Todd in 1978. Dr. Philip M. Tierno Jr., Director of Clinical Microbiology and Immunology at the NYU Langone Medical Center, helped determine that tampons were behind toxic shock syndrome (TSS) cases in the early 1980s. Tierno blames the introduction of higher-absorbency tampons in 1978, as well as the relatively recent decision by manufacturers to recommend that tampons can be worn overnight, for increased incidences of toxic shock syndrome. However, a later meta-analysis found that the absorbency and chemical composition of tampons are not directly correlated to the incidence of toxic shock syndrome, whereas oxygen and carbon dioxide content is associated more strongly.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration suggests the following guidelines for decreasing the risk of contracting TSS when using tampons:\n\nCases of tampon-connected TSS are extremely rare in the United States.. A study by Tierno also determined that all cotton tampons were less likely to produce the conditions in which TSS can grow, this was done using a direct comparison of 20 brands of tampons including conventional cotton/rayon tampons and 100% organic cotton tampons from Natracare. In fact Dr Tierno goes as far to state that \"The bottom line is that you can get TSS with synthetic tampons but not with an all-cotton tampon.\" \n\nSea sponges are also marketed as menstrual hygiene products. A 1980 study by the University of Iowa found that commercially sold sea sponges contained sand, grit, and bacteria. Hence, sea sponges could also potentially cause toxic shock syndrome.\n\nTampons are currently being used and tested to restore and/or maintain the normal microbiota of the vagina to treat bacterial vaginosis. Some of these are available to the public but come with disclaimers. The efficacy of the use of these probiotic tampons has not been established.\n\nEcological impact varies according to disposal method (whether a tampon is flushed down the toilet or placed in a garbage bin - the latter is the recommended option). Factors such as tampon composition will likewise impact sewage treatment plants or waste processing. The average woman may use approximately 11,400 tampons in her lifetime (if she uses only tampons rather than other products). Tampons are made of cotton, rayon, polyester, polyethylene, polypropylene, and fiber finishes. Aside from the cotton, rayon and fiber finishes, these materials are not bio-degradable. Organic cotton tampons are biodegradable, but must be composted to ensure they break down in a reasonable amount of time. Rayon was found to be more biodegradable than cotton .\n\nEnvironmentally friendly alternatives to using tampons are the menstrual cup, reusable sanitary pads, menstrual sponges and reusable tampons. Menstrual cups are silicone cups that are worn inside the vagina to collect the fluid. Reusable sanitary pads are similar to disposable sanitary pads, but differ in the sense that they can be washed and used as many times as needed by the owner. For women who cannot or don't want to use a menstrual cup, but like internal products, sea sponges inserted like tampons may be a good option. These can also be washed out and reused and when they lose their absorbency can be composted. Some women have also made reusable tampons, often pieces of knit or crocheted fabric that are rolled up and inserted into the vagina, and later washed, dried and reused. These alternatives are environmentally friendly because they are reusable, and in some cases compostable, so they contribute less waste to landfills.\n\nAlternatives also include reusable absorbent underwear.\n\nThe Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm carried out a life cycle assessment (LCA) comparison of the environmental impact of tampons and sanitary pads. Their “cradle to grave” assessment of the raw material extraction, transportation, production, use and waste management stages took three main impact categories into consideration: human health, ecosystem quality and resource use. They found that the main environmental impact of the products was in fact caused by the processing of raw materials, particularly LDPE (low density polyethelene) – or the plastics used in the backing of pads and tampon applicators, and cellulose production. As production of these plastics requires a lot of energy and creates long-lasting waste, the main impact from the life cycle of these products is fossil fuel use, though the waste produced is significant in its own right.\nWomen have used tampons during menstruation for thousands of years. In her book \"Everything You Must Know About Tampons\" (1981), Nancy Friedman writes, \"There is evidence of tampon use throughout history in a multitude of cultures. The oldest printed medical document, Papyrus Ebers, refers to the use of soft papyrus tampons by Egyptian women in the 15th century BCE. Roman women used wool tampons. Women in ancient Japan fashioned tampons out of paper, held them in place with a bandage, and changed them 10 to 12 times a day. Traditional Hawaiian women used the furry part of a native fern called hapu'u; and grasses, mosses and other plants are still used by women in parts of Asia.\"\n\nR. G. Mayne defined a tampon in 1860 as: \"a less inelegant term for the \"plug\", whether made up of portions of rag, sponge, or a silk handkerchief, where plugging the \"vagina\" is had recourse to in cases of hemorrhage.\"\n\nDr. Earle Haas patented the first modern tampon, Tampax, with the tube-within-a-tube applicator. Gertrude Schulte Tenderich (née Voss) bought the patent rights to her company trademark Tampax and started as a seller, manufacturer, and spokesperson in 1933. Tenderich hired women to manufacture the item and then hired two sales associates to market the product to drugstores in Colorado and Wyoming; and nurses to give public lectures on the benefits of the creation; and was also instrumental in inducing newspapers to run advertisements.\n\nIn 1945, Tampax presented a number of studies to prove the safety of tampons. A 1965 study by the Rock Reproductive Clinic stated that the use of tampons \"has no physiological or clinical undesired side effects\". \n\nDuring her study of female anatomy, German gynecologist Dr. Judith Esser-Mittag developed a digital-style tampon, which was made to be inserted without an applicator. In the late 1940s, Dr. Carl Hahn, together with Heinz Mittag, worked on the mass production of this tampon. Dr. Hahn sold his company to Johnson and Johnson in 1974.\n\nSeveral political statements have been made in regards to tampon use. In 2000, a 10% goods and services tax (GST) was introduced in Australia. While lubricant, condoms, incontinence pads and numerous medical items were regarded as essential and exempt from the tax, tampons continue to be charged GST. Prior to the introduction of GST, several states also applied a luxury tax to tampons at a higher rate than GST. Specific petitions such as \"Axe the Tampon Tax\" have been created to oppose this tax, although no change has been made.\n\nIn the UK, tampons are subject to value added tax (VAT) at a reduced rate of 5%, as opposed to the standard rate of 20% applied to the vast majority of products sold in the country. The relevant EU legislation was finally changed in 2016. In March 2016, Parliament created legislation to eliminate the tampon VAT. It was expected to go into effect by April 2018 but did not do so. On the 3rd October 2018, new EU VAT rules that will allow the UK to stop taxing sanitary products were approved by the European Parliament. \n\nIn Canada, the federal government has removed the Goods and services tax (GST) and Harmonized sales tax (HST) from tampons and other feminine hygiene products as of July 1st, 2015.\n\nHistorically, the word \"tampon\" originated from the medieval French word \"tampion\", meaning a piece of cloth to stop a hole, a \"stamp\", \"plug\", or \"stopper\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2649262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2649262", "title": "Trencadís", "text": "Trencadís\n\nTrencadís (), also known as pique assiette, broken tile mosaics, bits and pieces, memoryware, and shardware, is a type of mosaic made from cemented-together tile shards and broken chinaware. Glazed china tends to be preferred, and glass is sometimes mixed in as well, as are other small materials like buttons and shells. Artists working in this form may create random designs, pictorial scenes, geometric patterns, or a hybrid of any of these.\n\nAlthough as a folk art the method itself may be centuries old, the two most commonly used terms are both of modern origin. Trencadís, a Valencian term that means 'chopped', is the name for this method as it was revived in early 20th century Valencian modernism and Catalan modernism, while pique assiette is a more general name for the technique that comes from the French language. In French, pique assiette ('plate thief') is a term for a scrounger or sponger, and thus as a name for this mosaic technique, it refers to the recycled or 'scrounged' nature of the materials.\n\nTraditional mosaics, such as classical Roman floors, are made up of individual tesserae, usually small cubes that are uniformly shaped and designed for their intended use. Trencadís differs in that the tesserae are nonuniform pieces broken from tiles and chinaware originally made for other uses. Trencadís is thus a form of bricolage, found object art, or recycled art.\n\nThere are two main methods for trencadís. In the first, an initial design is drawn up and the ceramic fragments are carefully fitted into the design; in this case, the mosaic is only cemented together once all of the fragments have been placed. Alternatively, an artist may spontaneously arrange fragments without a prior design; here the success of the finished work depends greatly on their improvisation skills.\n\nThe Valencian architec Demetrio Ribes used trencadís extensively for decoration in the hall of Valencia North Station in 1907.\n\nThe Catalan modernist architects Antoni Gaudí and Josep Maria Jujol used trencadís in many projects, among which Barcelona's Parc Güell (1900–1914) is probably the most famous. Gaudí's first use of this technique was at the Güell Pavilions, where the sinuous architecture forced him to break the tiles in order to cover the curved surfaces.\n\nGaudí tended to create patterns with his trencadís work, and he leaned towards brightly colored glazed ceramic shards. He often used discarded pieces of ceramic tile collected from the factory Pujol i Bausis located in Esplugues de Llobregat, as well as pieces of white ceramic from broken cups and plates discarded by other Spanish manufacturers.\n\nIn France, the term pique assiette is most closely associated with Raymond Edouard Isadore (1900–1964) a French graveyard sweeper and folk artist. Starting in the late 1930s, he spent 30 years covering both the inside and outside of his house as well as his furniture and his garden walls with mosaics. He found his materials in the surrounding fields and quarries, in the public dump, and at auctions. This habit of scavenging earned him the nickname \"pique assiette\" later shortened to \"picassiette\".\n\nIsadore, a very religious man, created many of his mosaic scenes with Christian personages and symbols. He also built a \"sweeper's throne\" and a \"sweeper's tomb\" covered in pique assiette. As the mosaics expanded, the project became more widely known, and in 1954, Pablo Picasso visited Isadore's house. Today, the house is a tourist attraction near Chartres known as \"Maison Picassiette\".\n\nThe Watts Towers in Los Angeles were built over a period of 30 years by Simon Rodia, a construction worker and tile mason. Begun in 1921, the 17 interconnected towers were decorated with fragments of porcelain, tile, glass, seashells and other found objects. Rodia built them without a premade plan, using damaged pieces from local tile companies and materials scavenged by neighborhood children.\n\nA contemporary example is the Bridge of the Dragon, which crosses the Guadaíra River at Alcalá de Guadaíra. The bridge's support structure emulates a dragon's body and is covered in trencadís. Designed by engineer José Luis Manzanares, it was directly inspired by Gaudí's dragon fountain in Parc Güell.\n\nA related form is the memory jug, an American folk art form that memorializes the dead. The memory jug is a vessel with a mosaic-like surface decoration of glass and ceramic shards, seashells, trinkets, coins and other small objects, especially objects associated with a specific dead person. Most known examples date back no further than the early 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "30547031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30547031", "title": "U.S. Army hand and arm signals", "text": "U.S. Army hand and arm signals\n\nHand and arm signals for United States Army use were first laid down in Field Manual 21-60. They were superseded in Training Circular 3-21.60. \n\nHand and Arm signals are one of the most common forms of communication used by United States Army soldiers or group of soldiers when a radio silence is in effect or if the soldiers need to remain undetected.\n\nThrough the use of these signals military leaders, such as team leaders, squad leaders and platoon leaders, are able to keep command and control (C2) over their particular element. All new recruits are taught to use the proper hand and arm signals found in the FM. However, it is not uncommon for units to adopt and/or create their own signals. These signals ultimately become known as SOP or standard operating procedure.\n\nVisual signals are any means of communication that require sight and can be used to transmit prearranged messages rapidly over short distances. This includes the devices and means used for recognition and identification of friendly forces.\n\nThere are a number of ways that visual communication can be executed. The most common types are: hand and arm signals, flags, pyrotechnic, chemical-lights and ground-to-air signals. It must be known that soldiers and units are not limited to this select list. Soldiers are only limited in their choice of visual communication by their initiative and imagination, as well as the ability of others to understand what they are trying to convey.\n\nLike all other types of signals, visual signals do have their downfalls and limitations. The first limitation one can see is the range and reliability. Within this limitation, visual communication can become greatly disrupted during periods of poor visibility or when the terrain restricts clear observation. The second limitation one can see is misunderstanding. Many units do not follow specific Army doctrine (FM), but rather adopt their own SOP's. With thousands of different units, it is highly likely that unit SOP's will begin to overlap and cross each other. The third limitation one can see is how vulnerable visual signals are to enemy interception; thus allowing the enemy to use our own signals for deception purposes.\n\n\nPatrolling is conducted by many types of units. Infantry units patrol in order to conduct combat operations. Other units patrol for reconnaissance and security. Successful patrols require clearly understood communication signals among members of a patrol.\n\n"}
{"id": "18744344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18744344", "title": "Virgo Consortium", "text": "Virgo Consortium\n\nThe Virgo Consortium was founded in 1994 for Cosmological Supercomputer Simulations in response to the UK's High Performance Computing Initiative. Virgo developed rapidly into an international collaboration between a dozen scientists in the UK, Germany, Netherlands, Canada, United States and Japan\n\nThe largest nodes are the Institute for Computational Cosmology in the UK and the Max Planck Institute for Astrophysics in Germany. Other nodes exist in the UK, Netherlands, Canada, USA and Japan.\n\nThe science goals are to carry out state-of-the-art cosmological simulations with research areas in:\n\n\n\nThis N-body simulation used more than 10 billion particles to trace the evolution of the matter distribution in a cubic region of the Universe over 2 billion light-years on a side. The first results that were published in 2005 in an issue of Nature, shows how comparing such simulated data to large observational surveys can improve the understanding of the physical processes underlying the buildup of real galaxies and black holes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30832164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30832164", "title": "Weighting pattern", "text": "Weighting pattern\n\nA weighting pattern for a linear dynamical system describes the relationship between an input formula_1 and output formula_2. Given the time-variant system described by\nthen the output can be written as\nwhere formula_6 is the weighting pattern for the system. For such a system, the weighting pattern is formula_7 such that formula_8 is the state transition matrix.\n\nThe weighting pattern will determine a system, but if there exists a realization for this weighting pattern then there exist many that do so.\n\nIn a LTI system then the weighting pattern is:\nwhere formula_10 is the matrix exponential.\n\n"}
{"id": "11261843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11261843", "title": "Wycombe Museum", "text": "Wycombe Museum\n\nWycombe Museum (aka Wycombe Local History and Chair Museum) is a free local museum located in the town of High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, England. It is run by Wycombe Heritage and Arts Trust, as of 1 December 2016. It was previously run by Wycombe District Council.\n\nThe museum is located in Castle Hill House on Priory Avenue. It is situated in an 18th-century house on a medieval site, and surrounding the museum are Victorian gardens. The museum presents exhibitions the history of the local area, including the furniture industry, especially chair-making. There are also displays of Windsor chairs, lace, art and natural history.\n\nThe museum collections include:\n\n\nThe museum was mentioned in \"Gavin & Stacey\", written by James Corden who was raised in the area.\n\n"}
