{"id": "39402922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39402922", "title": "2012 Dharmapuri violence", "text": "2012 Dharmapuri violence\n\nOn November 7, 2012, over 200 houses were torched in Natham, old and new Kondampatti and Annanagar Dalit colonies in Dharmapuri district, Tamil Nadu. When a Vanniyar girl from Sellankottai village, and a Dalit boy, from the neighbouring Dalit colony of Natham, fled due to parental opposition to get married, a caste panchayat held on the morning of November 7 by leaders from both communities ruled that the girl be returned to her family. Distraught at her decision to stay with her husband, her father, who worked at a cooperative bank, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself. The discovery of his body later that day is said to have provoked a 1,500-strong mob to rampage through Natham and two smaller Dalit settlements, Kondampatti and Anna Nagar, where it set ablaze over 200 houses, damaged at least 50 others, and allegedly looted valuables and cash worth lakhs of rupees. The mob rampaged for four hours and was brought under control after arrest of 90 men and an additional deployment of 1000 policemen.\n\nWhile Ramadoss, belonging to PMK party, had rubbished allegations that his party orchestrated the incident, many Dalits believe otherwise. Also, his party is said to have fomented tension between Vanniyars and Dalits by publicly condemning marriages between the two. However, there is no evidence that the PMK played any role in the attack.\n\nMany of the victims had blamed the fecklessness of the police and the district administration as this was a planned incident where a caste mob had been mobilised from 22 neighbouring villages. Though around 300 policemen were present on the spot anticipating trouble, they failed to control the violent gathering as the mob was eight times higher than the number of deployed forces. The Sub-inspector of Police, belonging to same caste of boy, and the constables responsible for maintaining peace in the area have since been transferred or suspended.\n\nThe population of Vanniyars, an intermediate caste inhabiting parts of northern Tamil Nadu, is estimated at 12-13per cent, while the Adidravidas (Dalits) constitute about 11.5 per cent. With the collapse of Naxalism, the people, once monolithic in their opposition to untouchability and discrimination, were now lured by caste identities and the promise of power. Thus began a disquieting era where Dalits were made vulnerable by radicalised groups and Vanniyars turned sanctimonious about their perceived position in society. So, there were regularly clashes between the Vanniyars and Dalits. In April 2012, Pattali Makkal Katchi party MLA, Kaduvetti Guru incited caste fanaticism when he asked the members of community to kill men from other community who marry Vanniyar community women at a Vanniyar youth meeting held in Mamallapuram.\n\nAs many as 268 dwellings of Dalits (of the Adi Dravida community) near Naikkankottai in Dharmapuri district were torched by the higher-caste group. The victims have alleged that ‘systematic destruction’ of their properties and livelihood resources has taken place. Around 1500 who were homeless after the incident were put up in a ground nearby and were provided food and clothing and also sanctioned Rs 50,000 as relief from Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The affected people staged a fast demanding Chief Minister to visit the affected areas and to increase compensation.\n\n It also blamed the state government for not taking enough steps to restore normalcy or implementing relief measures.\n\n\nThe Tamil Nadu government transferred the probe from local police to Crime Branch CID. More than 90 persons were arrested and cases were filed against over 200 people. The Madras High Court has stated the incident as serious and instructed the state authorities to submit a status report and the counter affidavit on that date. A PIL was filed seeking the suspension of District collector and Superintendent of police for inaction. On 3 December 2012, The district collector told the court that adequate relief measures were provided to victims and steps have been taken to maintain law and order in the area. The Superintendent of Police said cases have been registered and 142 people have been arrested. High Court termed the relief insufficient and ordered the state to provide a relief of 7.32 crore. A fresh PIL was filed asking for effective monitoring of offenses under SC-ST act and transfer the probe to CBI. The petition was posted along with the other petitions in the case. Tamil Nadu govt then declared solatium to individuals were ready to the tune of 7.32 crore as per court order. On Feb 9 2013, 91 people including some of whom who were falsely arrested for passing by near the violence area were let off and asked to appear before the CBCID. On March 29, the high court gave bail to 28 accused in the case.\n"}
{"id": "39900327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39900327", "title": "2013 Republican Guard headquarters clashes", "text": "2013 Republican Guard headquarters clashes\n\nOn the morning of 8 July 2013 at the Republican Guard headquarters in Cairo, Egypt there was a clash between protesters seeking the return of deposed President Mohamed Morsi, and the military, who were protecting the institution. At least 51 protesters seeking the return of Morsi to power were killed and more than 435 injured in the clashes, in what has been deemed as a massacre by the Muslim Brotherhood and those opposed to the recent coup d'état. Amnesty International has condemned the military's disproportionate use of force, with a spokesperson stating, \"Even if some protesters used violence, the response was disproportionate and led to the loss of life and injury among peaceful protesters.\"\n\nAccording to some witnesses, the military opened fire without provocation towards the end of morning prayers, immediately using live ammunition and shooting to kill. Gehad El-Haddad, the Muslim Brotherhood's spokesman, claimed that the military opened fire at the protesters while they were praying in front of the Republican Guard and staging a peaceful sit-in. One witness claimed that protestors had their backs to the Republic Guard building, as they were praying towards Mecca. Others claimed that the incident was after prayers. Some protestors claimed that police officer Mohamed el-Mesairy was sheltering in his parked car when he was killed by military gunfire striking the car.\n\nAccording to the military, a \"terrorist group\" tried to storm the Republican Guard headquarters and that it had retaliated by opening fire at the attackers. A military spokesman reported that an officer was killed and six troops were injured before adding that 42 troops were injured and eight were in critical condition. An amateur video recording showed people holding guns from the side of the protesters during daylight.\n\nPreliminary investigations showed that the crime scene contained firearms, ammunition, Freedom and Justice Party membership cards, explosives that contained pieces of glass, smoke grenades and a document that contained a list of names with monetary values next to it.\n\nThe army said it had arrested over 200 people, with \"large quantities of firearms, ammunition and Molotov cocktails\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54069873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54069873", "title": "3-Arylpropiolonitriles", "text": "3-Arylpropiolonitriles\n\n3-Arylpropiolonitriles (APN) belong to a class of electron-deficient alkyne derivatives substituted by two electron-withdrawing groups – a nitrile and an aryl moieties. Such activation results in improved selectivity towards highly reactive thiol-containing molecules, namely cysteine residues in proteins. APN-based modification of proteins was reported to surpass several important drawbacks of existing strategies in bioconjugation, notably the presence of side reactions with other nucleophilic amino acid residues and the relative instability of the resulting bioconjugates in the blood stream. The latter drawback is especially important for the preparation of targeted therapies, such as antibody-drug conjugates.\n\nThe synthesis of 3-arylpropiolonitriles has been the subject of several studies. The most elaborated and often used approach is based on MnO2-mediated free radical oxidation of the corresponding propargylic alcohols obtained using Sonogashira coupling of the corresponding iodo-derivative in the presence of ammonia (Figure 1).\n\nIn bioconjugation (forming a stable covalent link between a biomolecule and a functional payloads, such as fluorescent dyes, cytotoxic agents, or tracers), linking of the payload was classically achieved using maleimide heterobifunctional reagents (for example, see SMCC). However, when administered into living organisms, maleimide-containing bioconjugates were found to be relatively unstable and lose the payload in the blood circulation due to reversibility of the addition reaction between maleimide moiety and cysteine residue of a protein (retro Michael addition). Due to increased stability of bioconjugates obtained with analogous APN-based payloads (a schematic reaction is shown in the Figure 2 below), their use is often preferable when high selectivity and biostability are especially important: namely for the preparation of antibody−drug conjugates and other biologics. Standard procedure for APN protein labeling consists in incubation of a protein containing free cysteine residues with an APN-functionalized probe in PBS buffer at pH 7.5-9.0 at room temperature for 2–12 hours, followed by an optional step of purification of the resulting bioconjugate using size exclusion chromatography or ultrafiltration.\n"}
{"id": "41732281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41732281", "title": "Abu Ali Fana-Khusrau", "text": "Abu Ali Fana-Khusrau\n\nAbu Ali Fana-Khusrau (Persian: ابو علی فنا-خسرو), was the son of the Buyid ruler Abu Kalijar. After the fall of the Buyid Empire in 1055, Abu Ali spent the rest of his life residing at Naubandajan in Fars, where he became an honored figure among the Seljuq sultans. He died in 1094, and was given an honorable funeral.\n"}
{"id": "43051670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43051670", "title": "Alexios Aspietes", "text": "Alexios Aspietes\n\nAlexios Aspietes (, ) was a Byzantine governor and military leader who was captured by the Bulgarians, and led an anti-Bulgarian rebellion at Philippopolis in 1205, being acclaimed emperor by the citizens.\n\nA member of the Aspietes family, of noble Armenian origin, Alexios Aspietes was probably a relative of the generals Michael Aspietes and Constantine Aspietes, who were active in the late 12th century. Alexios Aspietes first appears in 1195, when he was governor of the town of Serres, and was ordered by Emperor Alexios III Angelos to march against the Bulgarian–Vlach rebellion of the brothers Peter and Ivan Asen. In the event, in the summer or autumn of the same year, Aspietes and his army were defeated by the rebels, who took many prisoners, including Aspietes himself.\n\nAspietes disappears from record for the next decade but was apparently released from captivity since in 1205 he is mentioned as being in Philippopolis (modern Plovdiv in Bulgaria). In the aftermath of the crushing victory by the Bulgarian tsar Kaloyan over the forces of the Latin Empire at the Battle of Adrianople on 14 April, the mostly Byzantine Greek citizenry of Philippopolis rose up in opposition to the imminent conquest of their city by Kaloyan, and proclaimed Aspietes as emperor. Kaloyan immediately turned his army on the city, and after a brief resistance, the inhabitants were forced to surrender on terms in June. Kaloyan, however, enraged by the Greeks' collusion with the Latins, did not keep his word and executed the city's leaders, including Aspietes who, according to Niketas Choniates, was first left hanging upside down before being dismembered and thrown into a ravine to be eaten by the vultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "25324226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25324226", "title": "Anti-aging movement", "text": "Anti-aging movement\n\nThe anti-aging movement is a social movement devoted to eliminating or reversing aging, or reducing the effects of it. A substantial portion of the attention of the movement is on the possibilities for life extension, but there is also interest in techniques such as cosmetic surgery which ameliorate the effects of aging rather than delay or defeat it.\n\nTwo popular proponents of the anti-aging movement include Ray Kurzweil, who says humanity can defeat aging through the advance of technology, and Aubrey De Grey, who says that the human body is a very complicated machine and thus, can be repaired indefinitely. Other scientists and significant contributors to the movement include molecular biologists, geneticists, and biomedical gerontologists such as Gary Ruvkun, Cynthia Kenyon, and Arthur D. Levinson. However, figures in the gerontology community in 2003 tried to distance their research from the perceived pseudoscience of the movement.\n\nAnti-aging medicine has become a budding and rapidly growing medical specialty as physicians who initially sought treatment for themselves have received training and certification in its practice by organizations such as the American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine (A4M).\n\nCentral to anti-aging medicine is administration of human growth hormone. Clinical studies have shown that low-dose growth hormone (GH) treatment for adults with GH deficiency changes the body composition by increasing muscle mass, decreasing fat mass, and increasing bone density and muscle strength. It also improves cardiovascular parameters (i.e. decrease of LDL cholesterol) and affects the quality of life without significant side effects. However, it is also said to have potentially dangerous side-effects when used in injectable form, if proper protocols are not followed. It is not approved for use in healthy aging patients, though many have been using it for this reason for decades now. That restriction is sidestepped by means of a diagnosis of some injury, organic condition, or adult growth hormone deficiency which supposedly has resulted in reduced secretion of the hormone.\n\nAdministration of estrogen and other hormones such as progestin were popularized by the 1966 book \"Feminine Forever\" by Robert A. Wilson. However, the increase of the use of estrogen was shown to be associated with an increased risk of cancer. Later, in 2002, research into the long-term effects of estrogen on post-menopausal women, the Women’s Health Initiative, produced evidence that there were serious side effects. Physicians who prescribe the hormones now prescribe low doses of the drugs. Research into the long-term effects of hormone replacement therapy is continuing, with a 2017 Cochrane systematic review concluding that long-term use may decrease the risk of bone fractures or postmenopausal osteoporosis, but increase the risk of stroke, heart attacks, endometrial cancer, and breast cancer. Hormone therapy is generally only recommended for postmenopausal women who are at a high risk of osteoporosis when non-hormonal treatments are not suitable. Hormone therapy is not suitable or advised for treating cardiovascular disease, dementia, or for preventing cognitive decline in postmenopausal women. The risks of long-term hormonal therapy for women under 50 years of age have not been determined.\n\nBiogerontology is a scientific discipline which has the same area of interest but, as a branch of gerontology, takes a more conservative approach.\n\nA substantial fraction of older people, taking their cue from alternative medicine, purchase and use herbal supplements and other products which promise relief from the incidents and dangers of aging. Some products are not effective while others hold promise.\n\nThere are at least two opposite views on the prospects of anti-aging research and development. One group states that there is a great deal of over-heated rhetoric in use with respect to life extension with over-optimistic projections on the part of its advocates. They also claim that there is little evidence that any significant breakthrough has been made, or is on the horizon. Some state that, this is largely due to a current lack of funding or interest in the issue. A study of the common supplements and hormone treatments used published in 2006 in the \"Cleveland Clinic Journal of Medicine\" showed that none of them are effective with respect to extending life.\nAnother group notices that recent scientific successes in rejuvenation and extending the lifespan of model animals (mice 2.5 times, yeast and nematodes 10 times) and discovery of variety of species (including humans of advanced ages) having negligible senescence give hope to achieve negligible senescence (cancel ageing) for younger humans, reverse ageing, or at least significantly delay it. Moreover, stopping or delaying aging should be a focus of the modern science and medicine since ageing is the major cause of mortality in the world.\n\nThough some scientists think curing aging is impossible, there are some criticisms of both the time frame life extensionists envision (the first, perhaps somewhat crude, treatments within the next several decades, or at least before the beginning of the 22nd century) and of whether curing aging is even desirable. Common criticisms of the idea of life extension are fears it will cause the world to be more overpopulated; however De Grey counters that by saying that since menopause would also be delayed, women could wait longer to have children and thus, the rate of growth would actually \"decline\" as a result. Also, the slowly growing population would buy centuries of time to figure out new places to live, such as space colonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "57285800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57285800", "title": "Antonio Foscarini", "text": "Antonio Foscarini\n\nAntonio Foscarini (c. 1570 in Venice – April 22, 1622) belonged to the Venetian nobility and was Venetian ambassador to Paris and later to London . He was the third son of Nicolò di Alvise of the family branch of San Polo and Maria Barbarigo di Antonio. In 1622 he was sentenced to death for high treason by the Council of Ten and executed.\n\nTen months later, the same council rehabilitated Antonio Foscarini and explicitly informed the European courts of his posthumous exoneration, and the revocation of the guilty verdict and death sentence. Notwithstanding the about turn, mystery still remains as to why an art-loving nobleman was embroiled in a Venetian tale of political intrigue, that involved factional infighting, institutional disputes between Church and State, and religious hostilities over Protestantism and Catholicism at the beginning of the Thirty Years' War, that led to the death of an innocent man.\n\nAntonio Foscarini had two brothers, Alvise (1560–1617) and Girolamo (1561–1580), and three sisters, Caterina, Agnesina, and Luca Contarini. The Foscarini family lost a substantial part of their wealth, from the Ottoman–Venetian War (1570–1573) and only the sons received financial support. His father Nicolò died in 1575, and his mother died in 1582, probably by suicide.\n\nAntonio studied in Padua, where he made several lifelong friendships. From 1590 he and his remaining brother Alvise led the household, and in 1592 they agreed to share the considerable fortune of about 70,000 ducats that remained. The family property included estates in Padua, Mestrino, Verona and Venice, including the family home in San Polo. In 1595 Foscarini gained a seat in the Grand Council and in September 1597 was elected to the 'Savio agli Ordini', - the lowest level in the council of ministers the 'Collegio' - where he was witness to the factional infighting between 'conservatives' and 'innovators', the two opposing groups of the nobility. He became a supporter of the 'innovator' Paolo Sarpi.\n\nFoscarini began his political career as an envoy to the court of Henry IV of France in 1601 and was present at the king's marriage to Maria de Medici. On May 26, 1607 he was appointed as ambassador to France but did not assume the role until February the next year. In July 1610 he was made ambassador to England, but here too he delayed taking up the position until May 4 of the following year.\n\nThese delays in taking up his two appointments formed part of the accusations against him during his two trials, but it was found that he otherwise behaved fittingly. Accusations that he dressed poorly and was stingy were not trivial matters in the estates society. His opposition to the Pope and the Jesuit order was no secret.\n\nIn February 1615 his secretary, Giulio Muscorno, denounced Foscarini before the Council of Ten, accusing him of selling state secrets to Spain. When Muscorno returned to Venice in March, his replacement, Giovanni Rizzardo, was requested to secretly gather evidence against Foscarini. Foscarini was arrested on his arrival in Venice in December. Three years later he was released without charge and formally absolved on July 30, 1618. In London between January 1616 and June 1617 his successor as ambassador to England, Gregorio Barbarigo, and his secretary Lionello, had searched in vain for evidence against him. In 1620 Foscarini was elected to the senate.\n\nIn 1621, Alethea Howard, Countess of Arundel, reached Venice. She was the granddaughter of Elizabeth of Hardwick, a goddaughter of Queen Elizabeth I, and wife of Thomas Howard, 21st Earl of Arundel, a leading person at the court of King James I of England. Foscarini was a friend of the art-loving couple from London and visited the pair at the Palazzo Mocenigo on the Grand Canal where they were staying.\n\nOn April 8, 1622 Foscarini was arrested leaving the Senate. The Council of Ten accused him of meeting with ministers of foreign powers, both in Venice and abroad, and of betraying in words and in writing the most intimate secrets of the Republic. Foscarini was accused of disclosing state secrets to the secretary of Emperor Ferdinand II and to the nuncio of the Pope at the Arundel residence. The agents of the State Inquisition, Domenico and Girolomo Vano were the key witnesses. These, in turn, had received their information from Gian Battista, the servant of the Spanish Ambassador.\n\nSir Henry Wotton, England's ambassador to Venice, wrote to Arundel that the Senate would declare her an 'unwanted person' and advised her to leave the city immediately. Instead, she hurried to Wotton and requested an audience with Doge Antonio Priuli. She threatened the ambassador, whom she suspected of being involved in the action of the Council of Ten to call for her removal. In fact, she was not only admitted to the Doge, but he assured her that no one wanted to banish her, and promised to restore the honor of Foscarini by writing to London. Six months later she left Venice, bestowed with gifts from the Doge.\n\nThe account of the advocate Andrea Querini: The case against Foscarini was preceded by about twelve processes of small consequence that began with letters from England in 1605 written to the Supreme Tribunal by his secretary Giulio Muscorno. Foscarini was said to have incurred the hatred of the King and Court by imprudent discourse to the detriment of public affairs. He wrote to defend himself and Muscorno replied that he went in danger of his life from the ambassador. Subsequently, Foscarini was accused of corresponding with foreigners, and the greater part of the process turned upon this, but in the absence of real proof, only a caution was issued. In 1622, informers declared to the tribunal to have repeatedly seen Foscarini talking with the Spanish ambassador under a certain 'sottoportico in Canareggio'. When questioned Foscarini did not deny the place or the hour but the person and the fact. A presumption of his guilt being established, he was condemned. Giovan Battista Nani describes these events in his \"Historia della Republica Veneta,\" published in the latter half of the century, but his account contains inaccuracies, as Foscarini's arrival in England was after the beginning of May, 1611 and Muscorno's letters were sent in 1613.\n\nDespite the assurances of the Doge given earlier to the Countess Arundel, Foscarini was convicted on April 22. He was strangled in jail and his body was, in the manner usual for those convicted of high treason, hung head down between the pillars in the Piazzetta. Before being so hung, his body had been dragged along the ground, from morning to dusk by one leg.\n\nMeanwhile, one of the inquisitors was suspicious and had interrogated the Spanish servant further, whereby he confessed to not having seen Foscarini in the Spanish ambassador's house. Girolamo, who had received a salary on May 23 for services not mentioned, and Domenico Vano, were both summoned and interviewed in August. They confessed to a conspiracy to discredit Foscarini, but the redacted court records reveal no motive, nor who may have been behind the conspiracy.\n\nThe Vano pair were convicted but before they were executed, the Foscarini nephews, Nicolò and Girolamo Foscarini, had petitioned the Council of Ten for further interrogation to reveal any co-conspirators, but this was declined. The English ambassador suspected this suggested either the statements of the convicted were of no value, or there were reasons of state.[1]\n\nOn 16 January 1623, ten months after the Council of Ten had convicted Antonio Foscarini of high treason, he was exonerated of all charges by the same council.[2]\n\nThe prosecutors were brought before the State Inquisition and the Council of Ten. The latter publicly acknowledged their error. Copies of the corresponding letters were sent to the Foscarini family and to all the estates in Europe.\n\nFoscarini was exhumed and reburied with a state funeral. A statue was erected in the Foscarini Chapel in the church of San Stae on the Grand Canal. The Doge Marco Foscarini (1762-1763), a descendant of Antonio's brother Alvise, praised the Council of Ten for revoking its earlier judgment.\n\nAntonio Foscarini was a follower of the so-called 'Giovani', a group in the Venetian nobility with sympathy for the Protestant rulers who supported them during the Thirty Years' War. When Foscarini was an ambassador to London, he made friends with Sir Henry Wotton (later to become British ambassador to Venice) and formed a formal alliance with England.\n\nIn addition, Venice had drawn the consequences in a lawsuit since 1605 and banished Theatines, Capuchins and Jesuits from its dominion. In return, the Pope had imposed on 17 April 1606, the Interdict on Venice. When this was abolished in 1607, the Jesuits were not allowed to return. The Venetian Republic challenged Papal authority and mistrusted the Jesuit order, with its strong Spanish ties. Venice resented Spanish power and her league with Florence, Milan and Naples. Savoy was the only other Italian state not subject to Spanish supremacy. Paolo Sarpi led an anti-papal group, opposing temporal privileges of the Pope.\n\nThe conflict between the 'Giovani' (the boys), and their opponents, 'Il Vecchi', (the ancients), also Papists was an important background to Foscarini's conviction. Until the death of Doge Leonardo Donato (1606-1612), 'the boys' dominated, but until 1631 they had intermittent influence.\n\nThe Habsburgs, leaders of the Counter-Reformation forces, involved Venice in a war under the leadership of Archduke Ferdinand, who in 1617 entered into the Treaty of Madrid. The Spanish Viceroy in Naples, the Duke of Osuna, refused to surrender. While his ships attacked Venetian merchants in the Adriatic, rumors circulated in Venice that the Spanish embassy was forming a core of supporters against the city. Many Venetians gathered before the embassy and the courts condemned more than a hundred men for treason. Three Spaniards were executed immediately.\n\nThe coup attempt sparked strong anti-Spanish sentiment in Venice even among pro-papal groups. Significantly Giambattista Bragadino, a member of the impoverished nobility, the so-called Barnabotti, having confessed to contact with the Spanish ambassador, was also executed. With the crowd surrounding the embassy, the Spanish Ambassador, the Marquess of Bedmar, decided to leave the city.\n\nThe denunciation of Antonio Foscarini by his secretary Giulio Muscarno, and subsequent arrest in 1615 had come in the midst of this crisis. He was eventually acquitted of selling information to the Spaniards but only after three years in detention. Muscarno was stripped of his office and sentenced to two years in prison.\n\nFoscarini's second denunciation in 1622 may have arisen from first indictment, his Protestant sympathies, the antipathy of his secretary Muscarno, or the general fear of Spain's intrigue, but which of these, is impossible to ascertain.\n\nSince 1310 the Council of the Ten dealt with cases of high treason. For both important dates, the day of the conviction (22 April 1622) and day of the rehabilitation (16 January 1623), the composition of the Council of the Ten is known. This Council of Ten, which had six councilors in addition to the Doge, consisted of ten senators, although a total of 17 men participated at the meetings. From their circle these determined three administrators of state, or 'Avogadori di Commun', one of whom would be a council of the Doge, the other two were elected by the senators. The three 'Avogadori' retained numerous informers, informants and henchmen, paid for from their own cash funds, and kept no records. The senate election to the Council were for one year terms, but the term commencement dates varied, so the Council composition changed monthly, but gradually.\n\nDoge Antonio Priuli, Alvise Contarini, Francesco Molin and Battista Nani were all possible Papists, but the number of Papist members of the Council in 1622 cannot be determined.\n\nIn 1623, the presidents, (Capi), were Anzolo da Mosto, Marcantonio Mocenigo and Nicolò Contarini. According to Sarpi, Contarini was one of the brains of the Giovani, and Mocenigo supported them. Only Battista Nani, the third to sign the rehabilitation, was not one of them. Nani had been in the Council of Ten at the time of the sentencing of 1622, but had been one of four who voted for imprisonment and not execution.\n\nVincenzo Dandolo, like Nani, was present at both sessions. He was an old acquaintance of Contarini and probably owed him his Senate seat, and they had fought together in the Gradisca War 1615-1617. He had sought the harshest condemnation, and in 1623, voted for rehabilitation.\n\nWhether the 'Giovani' and 'Papalisti' rivalry was behind the execution and rehabilitation is unknown. In 1622 Foscarini was so discredited that Paolo Sarpi had publicly declined the 100 ducats from the legacy of Foscarini, provided in his Will, on the eve of the execution for Sarpi's prayers. Sarpi may have rejected the inheritance in the belief of his guilt, or he may have feared for himself and his group.\n\n"}
{"id": "3073163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3073163", "title": "Association of Professional Futurists", "text": "Association of Professional Futurists\n\nThe Association of Professional Futurists (APF) is a global community of futurists advancing professional foresight. It was founded in 2002 to validate the competencies of emerging futurists, and to enhance their professional excellence. As analysts, speakers, managers or consultants, APF's credentialed members cultivate strategic foresight for their organizations and clients. APF represents the professional side of the futures movement, while long-standing groups such as the World Futures Studies Federation, the World Future Society or The Millennium Project, represent its academic, popular, and activists expressions, respectively.\n\nAPF emerged as a network of practicing futurists who were utilizing futures studies methods. As the field approached the year 2000, it began to renew old calls and issue new ones to raise its internal standards in regards to ethics, competencies, and quality of work. While few felt that futurists--an occupational interest group at best--might become a full-fledged recognized profession via certification, the nine members of APF's founding board, including Peter Bishop, Jennifer Jarratt, Andy Hines, and Herb Rubenstein felt that foresight professionals should lead the global discussion about professional futures practice, encourage the use of futures and foresight in strategic decision making, and offer services, resources and training for foresight professionals to advance their skills and knowledge.\n\nThe Association of Professional Futurists has over 500 individual members from 40 countries, including authors and speakers, such as Clem Bezold, Sohail Inayatullah, Thomas Frey, Alexandra Levit, Richard Slaughter, and Amy Webb. Beyond individuals, it has renowned organizational members, such as Arup Foresight, CSIRO/Data61, the Foresight Alliance, the Institute for the Future-Palo Alto, Institute for Futures Research-Stellenbosch, Kantar Foresight, Kairos Futures, Kedge, Leading Futurists LLC, OCAD University, Shaping Tomorrow, and Tamkang University.\n\nInstead of \"certifying\" members through coursework, professional futurists chose a pathway to \"credential\" its members, based on peer-review assessment of their competencies. APF Professional Membership is conferred following a portfolio review to those who can, at the minimum, document performance in two of seven professional standards: consulting, organizational function, postgraduate degree, certificate program, speaking, teaching or writing. Full Members may use the appellation of \"APF\" after their name. Besides its Full Member program, APF also offers Provisional, Associate, and Student Memberships.\n\nInstitutions or individuals that are looking for help to expand their capacity to anticipate and influence the future, may search APF's Find a Futurist membership directory.\n\nAPF Annual gatherings have been a key activity since its founding. The first gathering was an \"Applied Futures Summit\" in Seattle in April 2002 at which founders agreed to formally establish the Association. The second gathering was in Austin, TX focused on \"The Future of Futures,\" employing a scenario planning approach to explore the next decade of the field. Each subsequent gathering has focused on a particular topic, such as Design Thinking in Pasadena, CA, or the Future of Virtual Reality in Las Vegas, NV, Global Health in Seattle, WA, or Blockchain Futures in Brisbane, Australia.\n\nAPF hosts shorter \"Pro Dev\" workshops preceding larger conferences, in addition to annual gatherings. As a digital learning platform, APF members also conduct various events online, ranging from Twitterchats, to webinars, to day-long learning festivals that address topics as diverse as the future of museums to the future of machine intelligence. \n\nAPF's flagship publication for members is its \"Compass\" newsletter, published quarterly since 2003. The \"Compass\" features: recaps of APF events, articles on future trends, methodology salons, book reviews, plus member news and promotions. Non-members may view special themed or conference editions.\n\nHelping raise professionalism of futurists has been a perennial pursuit of the APF. In 2016, after three appointed studies over nine years, APF released a Foresight Competency Model, a product of 23 members from 4 continents that mapped the personal, academic, workplace, and technical competencies that futurists draw upon to support their work as consulting, organizational or academic futurists.\n\nThe Foresight Competency Model addresses the basic question of what one ought to be capable of doing as a professional futurist. At the center of the model is a circle of six foresight competencies: Framing, Scanning, Futuring, Designing, Visioning, and Adapting.\n\nThe Foresight Competency Model also defined sector competencies for different types of foresight professionals, such as consulting or organizational futurists, at the entry, associate, and senior career level. The origins of the Foresight Competency Model arose from previous taxonomies of futures research methods that offered guidelines for carrying out successful strategic foresight, developed over four decades.\n\nAPF's members annually select and recognize significant futures works. The first awards were announced in 2008. The ten 'most significant futures works' in 2008 included Peter Schwartz's \"The Art of the Long View\", Wendell Bell's \"Foundations of Futures Studies: Human Science for a New Era\", Bertrand de Jouvenel's \"L'Art de la Conjecture (The Art of Conjecture)\", and Ray Kurzweil's \"The Age of Spiritual Machines\". Each year's APF award winners are listed at Futures studies#Books.\n\nAPF also has an annual student recognition program in which universities offering undergraduate, Masters and/or PhDs in foresight and futures studies can submit up to three student works that the instructor(s) considers to be of exceptional quality in terms of originality, content and contribution to the field. Annual APF student recognition award winners are posted online. \n\nAs is the intention of many associations, APF has sought to improve the image and performance of the field. APF's credentialed members have written for and are cited in various journals and magazines such as \"Wired\", \"Fast Company\", \"Futures\", \"Technological Forecasting and Social Change\", \"Foresight\", \"World Futures Review\", \"The Futurist Journal,\" and the \"Journal for Futures Studies\".\n\nAPF is led by an international board of nine futurists from 4 continents along with key volunteers. It is incorporated in the State of Delaware, and is formed as a 501(c)(6) business league. It is considered exempt by the IRS as it is not organized for profit. APF's Twitter feed is @profuturists\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54341162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54341162", "title": "Automated negotiation", "text": "Automated negotiation\n\nAutomated negotiation is a form of interaction in systems that are composed of multiple autonomous agents, in which the aim is to reach agreements through an iterative process of making offers. Automated negotiation can be employed for many tasks human negotiators regularly engage in, such as bargaining and joint decision making. The main topics in automated negotiation revolve around the design of protocols and strategies.\n\nThrough digitization, the beginning of the 21st century has seen a growing interest in the automation of negotiation and e-negotiation systems, for example in the setting of e-commerce. This interest is fueled by the promise of automated agents being able to negotiate on behalf of human negotiators, and to find better outcomes than human negotiators.\n\nExamples of automated negotiation include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1747820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1747820", "title": "Boy in the Box (Philadelphia)", "text": "Boy in the Box (Philadelphia)\n\nThe \"Boy in the Box\" is the name given to an unidentified murder victim, 3 to 7 years old, whose naked, battered body was found in a cardboard box in the Fox Chase section of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on February 25, 1957. He is also commonly called \"America's Unknown Child.\" His identity has never been discovered, and the case remains open.\n\nIn February 1957, the boy's body, wrapped in a plaid blanket, was found in the woods off Susquehanna Road in Fox Chase, Philadelphia. The naked body was inside a cardboard box which had once contained a bassinet of the kind sold by J. C. Penney. The boy's hair had been recently cropped, possibly after death, as clumps of hair clung to the body. There were signs of severe malnourishment, as well as surgical scars on the ankle and groin, and an L-shaped scar under the chin.\n\nThe body was first discovered by a young man who was checking his muskrat traps. Fearing that the police would confiscate his traps, he did not report what he had found. A few days later, a college student spotted a rabbit running into the underbrush. Knowing that there were animal traps in the area, he stopped his car to investigate and discovered the body. He too was reluctant to have any contact with the police, but he did report his find the following day.\n\nThe police received the report and opened an investigation on February 26, 1957. The dead boy's fingerprints were taken, and police at first were optimistic that he would soon be identified. However, no one ever came forward with any useful information.\n\nThe case attracted massive media attention in Philadelphia and the Delaware Valley. \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" pressed 400,000 flyers depicting the boy's likeness, which flooded the area, and were included with every gas bill in Philadelphia. The crime scene was combed over and over again by 270 police academy recruits, who discovered a man's blue corduroy cap, a child's scarf, and a man's white handkerchief with the letter \"G\" in the corner; all clues that led nowhere. The police even went so far as to distribute a postmortem photograph of the boy fully dressed and in a seated position, as he may have looked in life, in the hopes it may lead to a clue. Despite the publicity and sporadic interest throughout the years, the boy's identity is still unknown. The case remains unsolved to this day.\n\nOn March 21, 2016, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children released a facial reconstruction of the victim and added him onto their database.\n\nIn August 2018 Barbara Rae-Venter, the genetic genealogist who helped to identify the Golden State Killer using a DNA profiling technique, stated that she was using the same method to try to identify the boy in the box.\n\nMany tips and theories have been advanced in the case. Although most of these have been dismissed, two theories have generated considerable interest among the police and media, and they have been extensively investigated.\n\nThis theory concerns a foster home that was located approximately 1.5 miles (2.5 km) from the site of the body.\n\nIn 1960, Remington Bristow, an employee of the medical examiner's office who doggedly pursued the case until his death in 1993, contacted a New Jersey psychic, who told him to look for a house that matched the foster home. When the psychic was brought to the Philadelphia discovery site, she led Bristow directly to the foster home.\n\nUpon attending an estate sale at the foster home, Bristow discovered a bassinet similar to the one sold at J. C. Penney. He also discovered blankets hanging on the clothes line that were similar to the one in which the boy's body had been wrapped. Bristow believed that the boy belonged to the stepdaughter of the man who ran the foster home, and that they disposed of his body so the stepdaughter would not be exposed as an unwed mother. He theorized that the boy's death had been an accident.\n\nDespite this circumstantial evidence, the police were not able to find many definite links between the Boy in the Box and the foster family.\n\nIn 1998, Philadelphia police lieutenant Tom Augustine, who is in charge of the investigation, and several members of the Vidocq Society (a group of retired policemen and profilers), interviewed the foster father and the stepdaughter (whom he had married). The foster home investigation was closed.\n\nAnother theory was brought forward in February 2002 by a woman identified only as \"Martha.\" Police considered \"Martha\"'s story to be plausible but were troubled by her testimony, as she had a history of mental illness. \"M\" claimed that her abusive mother had \"purchased\" the unknown boy (whose name was Jonathan) from his birth parents in the summer of 1954. Subsequently, the boy was subjected to extreme physical and sexual abuse for two and a half years. One evening at dinner, the boy vomited up his meal of baked beans and was given a severe beating, with his head slammed against the floor until he was semiconscious. He was then given a bath, during which he died. These details matched information known only to the police, as the coroner had found that the boy's stomach contained the remains of baked beans and that his fingers were water-wrinkled.\n\n\"M\"'s mother then cut the boy's distinctive long hair (accounting for the unprofessional haircut which police noted in their initial investigation) in an effort to conceal his identity. \"M\"'s mother then forced \"M\" to assist her in dumping the boy's body in the Fox Chase area. \"M\" went on to say that as they were preparing to remove the boy's body from the trunk of a car, a passing male motorist pulled alongside to inquire whether they needed help. \"M\" was ordered to stand in front of the car's license plate to shield it from view while the mother convinced the would-be Good Samaritan that there was no problem. The man eventually drove off. This story corroborated confidential testimony given by a male witness in 1957, who said that the body had been placed in a box previously discarded at the scene.\n\nIn spite of the outward plausibility of \"M\"'s confession, police were unable to verify her story. Neighbors who had access to \"M\"'s house during the stated time period denied that there had been a young boy living there and dismissed \"M\"'s claims as \"ridiculous.\"\n\nForensic artist Frank Bender developed a theory that the victim may have been raised as a girl. The child's unprofessional haircut, which appeared to have been performed in haste, was the basis for the scenario, as well as the appearance of the eyebrows having been styled. Bender later released a sketch of the unidentified child with long hair, reflecting the strands found on the body.\n\nIn 2016, two writers, one from Los Angeles, California (Jim Hoffmann) the other from New Jersey (Louis Romano) explained that they believed they had discovered a potential identity from Memphis, Tennessee and requested that DNA be compared between the family members and the child. The lead was originally discovered by a Philadelphia man (who introduced Romano and Hoffmann to each other) and then developed and presented, with the help of Hoffmann, to the Philadelphia Police Department and the Vidocq Society in early 2013. In December 2013, Romano became aware of the lead and agreed to help the man from Philadelphia and Hoffmann to personally obtain the DNA from this particular family member in January 2014 - which was sent quickly to the Philadelphia Police Department. Local authorities confirmed that they would investigate the lead, yet they stated that they would need to do more research on the circumstances surrounding the link to Memphis before comparing DNA. In October 2017 the PPD confirmed, through DNA (retrieved by the PPD through the Memphis PD), that the Memphis man and the Fox Chase boy found in the box, were most definitely related.\n\nThe Boy in the Box was originally buried in a potter's field. In 1998, his body was exhumed for the purpose of extracting DNA, which was obtained from enamel on a tooth. He was reburied at Ivy Hill Cemetery in Cedarbrook, Philadelphia, which donated a large plot. The coffin, headstone, and funeral service were donated by the son of the man who had buried the boy in 1957. There was significant public attendance and media coverage at the reburial. The grave has a large headstone bearing the words \"America's Unknown Child.\" City residents keep the grave decorated with flowers and stuffed animals.\n\nThe story was profiled in the television series \"America's Most Wanted\" on October 3, 1998, and on July 12, 2008. The television series \"Cold Case\", \"\", and \"\" have all used fictionalized accounts of the Boy in the Box case. Reporter Mitch Blacher of NBC 10 Philadelphia aired an investigative piece on \"NBC 10 Investigators\" on March 2, 2016 entitled, \"New Theory on Decades-Old 'Boy in the Box' Cold Case.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "727357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727357", "title": "Brownie points", "text": "Brownie points\n\nBrownie points in modern usage are a hypothetical social currency, which can be acquired by doing good deeds or earning favor in the eyes of another, often one's superior.\n\nA popular etymology is an allusion to the merit badges or six points earned by Brownies (junior Girl Guides/Girl Scouts) for carrying out good deeds. Brownies were named after a kind of mythological elf that does helpful things around the house.\n\nA popular marketing practice employed by many stores in post-World War II US was the distribution of stamps with each purchase. The number of stamps given out varied with the amount of the purchase. These stamps were collected by customers and later redeemed for household gifts. The earliest of these stamps were brown in color and known as \"brown stamps\" or \"brown points\". The relationship between a purchase and the collection of these \"brown points\" equated with doing a good thing (supporting the local vendor) and getting a bonus (the valuable stamps). Purportedly, the collection of these \"brownie points\" eventually evolved into the modern usage. The term Browniepoints is still used as a marketing practice in business today by a New Zealand power company and also used by a gift service.\n\nAnother proposed etymology is that the term derives from the name of a 19th-century American railroad superintendent, George R. Brown who, in 1886, devised what was then an innovative system of merits and demerits for railroad employees on the Fall Brook Railway in New York state. Accounts of his system were published in railroad journals, and adopted by many leading U.S. railroads. American railroad employees soon began referring colloquially to \"brownie points\", and at some point, the term entered the general vocabulary.\n\nIn the 1930s, The Curtis Publishing Company, published several magazines, including the \"Saturday Evening Post\" and the \"Ladies Home Journal\". These magazines were distributed to subscribers through a delivery network that used youths, primarily boys, to go around to the individual houses. The boys received a small commission but, in return for meeting certain sales targets, they could also receive company scrip, comprising green and brown vouchers. These vouchers were usually known as \"greenies\" and \"brownies\". Five greenies equalled one brownie. The greenies and brownies could be redeemed against goods from the company's catalogue.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" conjectures that this expression could also have derived from U.S. military slang for sycophants, \"brown-nosers\", while also mentioning the popular etymology that derives it from the awards system of the Brownies. The term \"brownie\" in the sense of \"brown-noser\" was in use in the 1940s. It has been suggested that the term was given impetus though its coincidence with related scatological slang.\n\nThe earliest published citation given in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" dates from 1963 (when it was reported in the journal \"American Speech\"), but the term is in fact somewhat older. Its frequent appearance in newspapers in the 1950s date back to the earliest known usage in 1951, where a man in the \"Los Angeles Times\" speaks of earning favor with his wife in terms of brownie points.\n\n"}
{"id": "17580984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17580984", "title": "Cedarlane Laboratories", "text": "Cedarlane Laboratories\n\nCedarlane is a Canadian private corporation headquartered in Burlington, Ontario, Canada, that manufactures and distributes life science research products. Cedarlane's manufactured products include monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, cell separation media, complement for tissue typing, and immunocolumns. Cedarlane is an ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 13485:2003 registered company. Cedarlane has become a multi-national corporation with over 100 employees in Canada and the United States. The two main locations are in Burlington, Ontario, Canada and coincidentally, in Burlington, North Carolina, US.\n\nIn recent years, Cedarlane has partnered with a number of charitable Canadian organizations to raise funding for cancer research, economically impoverished children, men's health initiatives and much more. Cedarlane has partnered with the likes of the Canadian Cancer Society, Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation, SickKids Foundation, and others.\n\nIn 2017, Cedarlane will celebrate its 60th anniversary after being founded in 1957 by Richard Course.\n\nCedarlane was incorporated in 1975 by three Canadian researchers originating from the University of Toronto and Ontario Cancer Institute; Dr. S. Abrahams, Dr. A.J. Farmilo and R.C. Course.\n\nIn 2006, Cedarlane opened a branch office in Burlington, North Carolina, in the United States.\n\nIn July 2007, Cedarlane became the exclusive distributor of ATCC products in Canada. In November, Cedarlane acquired CELLutions Biosystems Inc., a company founded by the University of Toronto Innovations Foundation.\n\nCedarlane sells density-gradient cell separation media under the Lympholyte trade name.\n\nCedarlane offers cell line platforms and various marker details (under CELLutions™) for academic and commercial research programs.\n\nCedarlane also distributes over 5 million products on behalf of more than 1400 global Life Science manufacturing companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "50217755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50217755", "title": "Childbirth in Nepal", "text": "Childbirth in Nepal\n\nThis article provides a background on Nepal as a whole, with a focus on the nation's childbearing and birthing practices. While modern Western medicine has disseminated across the country to varying degrees, different regions in Nepal continue to practice obstetric and newborn care according to traditional beliefs, attitudes, and customs.\n\nIndigenous Nepali theories of illness differ from that of the modern Western world. They do not believe in the germ theory; instead, they believe that illness is caused by malevolent powers that enter the body, disturbing the normal balance and creating sickness. It is up to the healer (\"dhami-jhankris\") to try to release the malevolent power that is causing disease and restore balance in the body system to make it function normally again. These indigenous beliefs are similar to the faith healing traditions still practiced today. Faith healing is based on the belief that illness is due to attacks by different types of spirits. The healers must identify the type of spirit and make an offering to appease the spirit or forcibly remove the spirit with a spirit bone (usually a human femur). These rituals often include colorful costumes, chanting, singing, dancing and drumming, as well as a sacrifice of a rooster or a black goat. These ceremonies are done by \"dhami-jhankri\" (shamans), \"pandit-lama-gubhaju-pujari\" (priests of different ethnic and religious groups), and \"jyotishi\" (astrologers).\n\nThere are two other main healing traditions in Nepal, namely Ayurveda, Tibetan medicine, and faith healing. Ayurveda is based on the tridosha theory of disease, where the three doshas, or humors, are \"vata\" (wind), \"pitta\" (gall) and \"kapha\" (mucus). Disturbance is the equilibrium of these humors results in disease. The traditional healers can be divided into faith healers and medical providers. The medical providers include \"Baidhya-Kabiraj\", who use elixirs, metal preparations and herbs to treat illness, and \"Jadi-butiwala\", who only use herbs for treatment. Tibetan medicine (\"gso ba rig pa\") is based on the belief that the physical world, including our bodies, are a product of our individual perception and it is the mind that brings on illness to the body. The Tibetan medical practitioners, \"Amchis\", help direct the patient towards increased self-awareness to restore balance and harmony between the body and the forces of the universe.\n\nThe current total population sex ratio in Nepal is 0.98 males/female. Female life expectancy at birth in Nepal in 68.92 years, compared to 66.18 years for males. The fertility rate is 2.24 children born per woman, and the birth rate is 20.64 births per 1,000 people. The mother's mean age at first birth is 20.1 years old. 49.7% of the population use contraception. It is unclear what the abortion rate is in the country, likely because it is considered taboo so women are less likely to report it.\n\nMaternal mortality rates have dropped significantly from 539 per 100,000 live births in 1996 to 258 deaths per 100,000 live births in 2015. For this achievement, the country has been honored at the 2010 Millennium Development Goals Review Summit. Leading causes of maternal mortality are postpartum hemorrhage (46%), obstructed labor (16%), complications of pregnancy induced hypertension and eclampsia (14%), and puerperal sepsis (12%) in 2015. 67% of maternal mortality occurs at home, 11% occurs at a health facility and 11% occur on the way to a health facility. 90% maternal deaths occur in a rural setting.\n\nThere has been an increase in the percentage of births attended by skilled personnel (doctors, nurses, midwives), from 4% in 1990 to 53% in 2015. Skilled birth attendance (SBA) in the urban setting is 72.7%, compared to 32.3% in the rural setting. SBA among the poorest 20% of the population is 10.7%, whereas among the richest 20% of the population, it is 81.5%. 58.3% of women attend at least one antenatal visit, and 50.1% attend at least 4 visits per pregnancy.\n\nThe under-5 mortality rate has dropped from 142 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 42 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2012. Infant mortality (under-1) is 39.14 deaths per 1,000 live births. Neonatal mortality rate is 24 per 1,000 live births.\n\nAccording to UNICEF, 58.3% of women have at least one antenatal care visit and 50.1% have at least four visits. However, other studies have shown coverage in rural communities to be as little as 29% and upwards of 79% in more urban areas. On average, each session lasts about 10 minutes with an emphasis on health education and counseling. Physical examinations and blood pressure measurements were also performed in 85-95% of cases, but biochemical tests including urine analysis and sero-testing for syphilis were not always performed. The main topics discussed during the visit ranged from nutrition, personal hygiene, and general reassurance that “everything is all right”. Fortunately, 76% of women were informed of signs of pregnancy complications. Similarly, taking a woman's history focused solely on the current pregnancy rather than including questions about possible previous experiences. As such, complications were never asked nor were they consistently followed up with referral practices in the rural communities. Luckily, preventative interventions have vastly improved over the past two decades. Eight in ten women now take iron supplements during pregnancy. Though improvements can be made as only 55% took intestinal parasite drugs.\n\nWithin the past two decades, the government and NGOs have come together to tackle the low prenatal care rates in an effort to improve maternal and child morbidity and mortality outcomes. One such tactic, the Safe Motherhood Initiative, is providing financial incentives for pregnant mothers to come to their prenatal care check-ups. These types of programs pay anywhere from 500 and 1,500 Nepali Rupees or $5 - $10 USD, depending on the region. Other incentives include providing free services for maternal related issues and having a 24-hour delivery service. Through the national increase on funding of these particular health concerns, there have been large improvements concerning the 5th Millennium Development Goal (as evidenced under Health Statistics).\n\nHowever, modern medicine continues to struggle against the traditions upon which antenatal care has previously been done. Excluding geographical access, some other reasons quoted for non-use of maternity services include: cultural barriers, perceived low quality of care, perceived discrimination of rural people, and lack of perceived health gain. Many pregnant women feel threatened, unaware, or uneducated about the benefits that a prenatal check-up could bring. For some, the risk-benefit of one day of work and one day of prenatal check-ups is the deciding factor. For example, a woman who works in the agricultural fields may feel it is worth sacrificing a whole day's work in order to seek antenatal care, especially in the absence of a mother-in-law's perceived concern regarding the pregnancy.\n\nThus, this feeling of “going through it alone” is paramount throughout the entire childbirth experience. Even if women are anxious about the birth outcome (survival or death), they emphasized that it was something they had no control over, believing birth is in God's hand. As such, pregnancy and birth needed no preparation. Due to the societal expectation of women as bearers of children and careers of the family, the practice of giving birth traditionally (i.e. vaginally) was safe and even empowering for women if done in a \"goth\" (small out-building near the main house or lower section of the main house for animals). Similarly, losing a child was an unfortunate but expected part of continuous pregnancy and childbirth in these villages. Infertility and death was also prevalent and reasoned to be because the gods were angry with them for committing a very serious sin. This natural process conflicts with the medical model and many hospitals and health centers have to negotiate with these local cultural and spiritual beliefs before providing care to these women.\n\nOverall, women do not prepare much for birth. Especially if they are delivering alone, they will not have the time nor the funds to adequately prepare for labor and delivery. They will, however, work right up until the onset of labor. This is mainly due to the deeply entrenched gender roles that women must do household labor. Even if husbands wished to help lighten the workload, they are unable to do so. This constant movement provides added stress and contributes to the already lacking nutritional status of these women, further increasing the risk for poor birth outcomes.\n\nAs for the birth location, families will sometimes help clear an animal shed in anticipation of labor. Generally, this means moving the animals to another place, sweeping up the dung and dirt, laying down clean dry grass or hay, and covering it with a plastic sheet or blanket.\n\nOn the health care professional side, some traditional birth attendants and skilled professionals will have a pre-made pregnancy kit ready. Inside contains gloves, a small piece of soap, five squares of gauze, a small blade, three pieces of string, a small plastic sheet, and a sandwich-sized bag. However, this practice is not consistently among TBAs as one study found only 2% used them consistently and correctly.\n\nThere are several extrinsic factors that affect the quality and quantity of prenatal care among Nepalese women. The highest predictor is related to location and socio-economic status. While most people live in rural areas (83.4%), they are at a higher risk for stillbirth, childhood malnutrition, chronic energy deficiency among women, and generally poorer maternal and mortality outcomes. This is partially due to the lack of financial resources prevalent to devote to maternal care, but also partially due to the resources available within the community to tackle this health topic. For example, 40% of the water is from an unprotected source. Similarly, 35% have an open sanitary facility as a designated location for elimination and 35% cook in the living area of dwelling. These are risk factors for infection and respiratory issues that only increase in women who are pregnant. Furthermore, 78% of women are laborers and 55% of women considered their work to be of a moderate workload. These jobs increase the strain on a pregnant mother's health by losing energy that is not being adequately compensated by dietary intake, using an upright posture that may diminish uterine blood flow and affect supply of oxygen and nutrients to fetus, and adding mental stress related to maternal work outside the home that may affect intrauterine growth and gestational duration. Along with the personal behavior of 30% who are smokers and 7.6% who consume alcohol, these women are at a very high risk for complications.\n\nPredominately, labor takes place within the home. Though 90% live within 5 km of a health facility, women choose to labor and birth wherever the livestock is kept because of social concepts of deities, cleanliness, and sin. Essentially, cultural and spiritual traditions say the household deity will get angry if it takes place in the home because periods of menstruation and childbirth are considered to be polluted days. If it is does not take place in the animal shed but in the home instead, the woman must perform rituals to ask for forgiveness from the deity. Regardless, health problems may result by not following the rules of the house. Families also prefer the animal shed because it is easier to clean the shed before and after the delivery than any ground floor due to the lack of any artificial flooring. This allows family members to dig up and throw out any blood-contaminated soil or mud after the delivery procedure.\n\nAs for the hospital/health centers, women will only go in an absolute emergency. Some common reasons they deem necessary include: prolonged labor, retained placenta, and excessive bleeding. Most recently, women are coming more and more to these medical facilities for the financial incentive rather than for the care and monitoring provided. Overall, pregnant mothers feel uncomfortable in a hospital because it is too cold, they are not well acquainted with the staff, no relatives are allowed to stay for the delivery, and it is not convenient for them. Furthermore, they believe TBAs are more experienced anyway. However, those who live in central, urban areas are more likely to go to a hospital or health center due to increased awareness and increased resources available to them.\n\nNepalese women largely believe the whole birth process is a part of life and of God's plan. As such, labor begins when God deems it so. A common saying, “Jun Bela Bela Unhi Bela Chela” means that childbirth will occur on its own time, hence no attendance is needed. However, estimated length of labor is largely determined based on prior experiences and stories of the mother-in-law and other close female family members.\n\nExtrinsic factors dictating how and where labor occurs is largely based on personal behavior (i.e. prior experiences and personal beliefs). Some prior experiences include: cesarean delivery, vaginal birth, and satisfaction with a traditional birth attendant or other health professional. As for personal beliefs, women of Chhetri or Thakuri ethnicity and more illiterate, older, and of higher parity were more likely to follow high-risk birth practices especially if the husband was also illiterate. Once again, education, socioeconomic status, access to healthcare, and transportation were other extrinsic factors that changed the course of labor and subsequently, birth. As for the labor process itself, women commonly eat cumin seed soup and drink glucose water while sleeping and moving to the women's liking. Particular breathing is not emphasized as much as helping a woman through whatever emotions she is feeling. Sexual activity is not prevalent during this time.\n\nDuring the first stage of labor, the birth-attendant may start using a mustard-oil massage on the woman's abdomen, hands, feet, and head. This not only helps the mother with the pain, but it also helps show the child through the birth canal. During the second stage of labor, the birth-attendant may provide pressure on the woman's rectum with her thumb as the woman pushes. Medical management of pain is rarely found in home births, but analgesia (i.e. epidural) is prevalent in the hospitals. Touch, in the form of massage, is the main means of pain management in the more rural settings.\n\nWomen often birth alone or with the help of female relatives or traditional midwives. One study found that 56% of all Nepalese births are assisted only by relatives and friends. However, they are likely untrained and will use unsafe delivery practices like cutting the cord with unclean razor blades or tying them dirty ties and smearing cow dung or ash onto the cord.\n\nThus many birthing mothers pray for a simple labor due to the lack of health professional assistance nearby. Some reasons cited for not having skilled attendance at antenatal and delivery care include: transportation problems, lack of knowledge about service benefits, distance to the healthcare facility, and user fees. Some extrinsic factors influencing the presence of skilled attendance include: socio-demographic (age, education, residential area) and economic status. 31% of those who had unskilled attendance had no antenatal visit or care. Luckily, the lack of people in the birthing room means there is a dark, calm atmosphere for the baby to come into.\n\nReasons for wanting a solo home birth include: wanting a natural process, going through a polluted period, and increased self-confidence doing it alone. The idea of self-confidence and not needing anybody else is most strongly prevalent among multiparous women, having already done it previously without any help.\n\nPreviously, husbands have been unable to support women during childbirth due to cultural tradition deeming it solely the woman's responsibility. However, the capital of Nepal has recently allowed husbands to support their wives during childbirth in the hospitals. This can be attributed to the increasing trend towards a nuclear family, migration to the capital, a busy lifestyle, and exposure to educated couples and foreign ideologies that has shifted family dynamics from the relatives to just the couple themselves. Especially considering the husbands have the final say in medical decisions, this will better equip them to understand the situation prior to having to make difficult decisions concerning her health and the baby's.\n\nSupportive behavior has typically been very limited due to the common belief that their “deity will get angry if they touch the polluted woman”. Depending on the region, this polluting period presents at different stages of labor and birth. For some, it commences right when the membrane ruptures, but for others it occurs right when the child is separated from the mother. This polluting period continues into the postpartum period, where seclusion may be present for up to 6–15 days post-birth. This cultural belief in separation makes it very hard for many women to call traditional birth attendants to help. According to one TBA, “they call sometimes [only] because no one wants to touch the women during and after the delivery”. Similarly, another TBA stated that a woman was nearly in shock after a placenta had not been expelled two hours post-birth because nobody was willing to touch her to help. However, in many rural villages other women will come support by providing food, water, and massage support. This differs greatly from the medical practice found in hospitals where supportive behavior is more medical intervention. In this case, the cultural beliefs are still prevalent and must be negotiated on a family by family basis.\n\n36% of births are assisted by a skilled provider (doctor, nurse, or midwife). Another 11% are assisted by a traditional birth attendant. The former option is much more common in urban areas (73%) than in rural areas (32%). Health services that involved first-level health workers were more common in hospital deliveries compared with home deliveries.\n\nMaternity services in first-line units (antenatal care and delivery care) were provided by staff nurses that had three years of training and auxiliary nurse midwives that had training for 18 months. In primary health centers, there were auxiliary nurse midwives and in health posts and subhealth posts there are maternal child health workers with 10 weeks training. For traditional birth attendants, training widely varies and can best be categorized into training and non-training. 18% of the overall TBAs in Nepal are untrained and the rest were trained. Differences among TBAs arose in clean delivery practices (i.e. hand-washing practices) and standardized identifiers for maternal complications like excessive bleeding, prolonged labor, and retained placenta.\n\nPrimarily, the locus of decision making power lies with the husband in rural communities. If the husband is not present, it falls to the next male figurehead present (father-in-law, father, brother, etc.). As mentioned previously, this is difficult because many times the husband does not watch the labor and birth and is uneducated about maternal health. Therefore, they are largely uninformed when making decisions about transportation, access, and procedures for mother and baby.\n\nHowever, up to two-thirds of women in urban areas report they have sole or joint decision-making power over their own health care. Oldest women and those from the wealthiest families are most likely to participate in these decisions, especially in the Central Hill, Mid-western Hill, and Eastern Terai areas. Some factors influencing a woman's ability to make her own decisions regarding healthcare include: higher education, more decision-making power in a household, and higher income.\n\nJust over one-third (35%) of births in Nepal occur in health facilities. They most commonly occur in Eastern terai (50%) and Western terai (48%) regions. One may go to a private or public hospital or clinic, but costs are generally higher at private ones. The remaining two-thirds of births occur at home due to the aforementioned belief in the natural process and lack of perceived need for a health facility service. Home births are skewed in areas of rural regions (67%) compared with urban areas (28%) due to various factors including access, cost, and awareness of delivery care. On the other hand, birthing centers are starting to increase, but are still rarely used currently. UNICEF has supported the establishment of 12 birthing centres in Humla as one of many plans to increase access to women in more rural, remote villages in Nepal.\n\nWhile there is no specific position preferred for the first stage of labor, the woman often alternates from sitting to standing to walking to sleeping. As for the second stage of labor, the woman is prone on the hands and knees. This allows the TBA to put pressure on the woman's rectum with her thumb while the woman pushes. In addition, it results in easier childbirth and prevents perineal tearing. Mothers who birth alone also like it because it is easy and does not require assistance from others.\n\nThe most commonly used instruments for cord cutting include a sickle, knife, bamboo stick, and razor. These instruments are rarely washed thoroughly before and after being implemented. If placental delivery is not occurring, some methods used to remove the placenta include procedures that require internal manipulation. This can be anything from pulling on the umbilical cord to inducing choking or vomiting in the mother. Once the placenta is removed and cut, mustard oil and turmeric are often used for cord dressing. Depending on the ethnic backgrounds, different customs are applied for the disposal of the placenta. Some believe that if the placenta touches the soil, or if an animal eats the placenta, the child will fall ill. So many tend to bury the placenta or throw it into thick bamboo bushes.\n\nAs mentioned previously, food and drink is provided during labor with soup or glucose water. Oil massages are given as psychological/emotional support while relaxing the muscles. Personal behavior differs where it comes to positioning and pain management, though it largely is influenced by family members and location/type of services provided.\n\nThe population-based caesarean section rate is around 4.6%, but varies greatly depending on the region. Higher cesarean rates are prevalent in more urban populations, due to proximity of health services and hospitals while lower rates are found in more rural rates. The most common complications are prolonged or obstructed labors, placenta retention, and immediate postpartum hemorrhage. Prolonged or obstructed labor is beyond the skills of mothers and TBAs, though many try attempting internal manipulation without proper cleaning and without wearing a glove. Mothers may request an abdominal massage, oil on head, soup to drink, or perform rituals of worship to speed up the process. In placenta retention, most attendants will wait up to 1–2 hours before various measures are implemented. Some measures include abdominal massage, induction of vomiting, fundal pressure, cord traction, and manual removal. To induce vomiting, someone sticks hair or finger down her throat. Sometimes, water or soup of bitter herbs is given to the mother to drink. For immediate postpartum hemorrhage, TBAs describe a hard mass in the lower abdomen following delivery that they massage and squeeze. Others refer the case without delay due to the risk. However, in both cases foods like millet puwa (millet flour, cumin seed, pepper, clove, cinnamon and coriander) and mustard oil are mixed with turmeric.\n\nAs mentioned previously, the C-section rate is 4.6% as of 2012. According to one study, the zonal hospital was equipped with 75% of the essential equipment and drugs based on a 22 item reference list. At a home birth, the midwife/nurse equipment and instruments are the only technology typically used (which are the ones found in the safe delivery kits).\n\nThe postpartum period begins right after the baby's birth and can last up to 6 months, during which time the mother's body undergoes significant changes to return to its prepregnant state. It can be divided up to 3 phases: acute period (first 6–12 hours after delivery), subacute period (2–6 weeks), and delayed postpartum period (last up to 6 months). This delineation of the postpartum period is based on modern Western medicine, and is not specific to Nepal.\n\nOver two-thirds of births occur at home in Nepal and they go through the postpartum period at home as well. However, when these “home” births often occur in the \"goth,\" or the cowshed, because they believe that the mother is impure during delivery and postpartum and can pollute the people and objects in the house. It can also upset the household deities, which may manifest as sickness or complications for the mother or baby. For some women, they may stay on the straw on the floor of the shed for 20 or more days after childbirth, after which they are allowed to go inside the house. For those who deliver in health facilities, it is unclear how soon after delivery they return home.\n\nDuring the initial few days after birth, the mother is not allowed to receive any guests. After this period, the family hosts a ceremony (\"machu bu benkyu\") between the fourth and twelfth day after birth, during which time the baby is introduced to the father and the rest of the extended family. Congratulations and gifts are accepted and the baby is ceremoniously massaged in mustard oil and its eyes outlined in \"gajal\" (soot from an oil lamp and butter) to protect its eyes.\n\nAll food is prepared by other female members of the family or the maid; the mother is not allowed to cook during the postpartum period. Nepali mothers eat a very specific diet of \"jhol\" (bitter tasting buttery chicken broth) and specifically cooked meat and vegetables, which are to help with recovery and production of nutritious breast milk. They also drink restorative ayurvedic remedies and food low in salt to help flush out excess water in the tissues. The mothers strictly adhere to this diet for at least 2 months.\n\nNepali mothers are secluded with their babies right after delivery because they are considered polluted. This is called the \"sutkeri\" period and lasts three to eleven days. It is believed that this seclusion is necessary because the mother and baby are vulnerable to evil spirits and disease. This also provides the time for mother and baby to bond. After this seclusion period, the father of the baby and the mother in law often make decisions regarding the mobility of the woman.\n\nDuring the postpartum period, the mother is massaged to encourage shrinking of the uterus and stimulate production and flow of breastmilk. This is initially done by the midwife, and later passed on to a family member.\n\nAmong indigenous Newar cultures, new mothers go on a traditional postnatal holiday two weeks after the birth. They leave the home of their in-laws for the first time and enjoy two or more months of rest and pampering by other women. They are not allowed to work at home or in the farmlands during this time. Instead, she enjoys daily massages and sunbathing. This period of rest allows the mother to completely recover physically and mentally, adjust to hormonal changes and to her new role as a mother.\n\nIn one study, they found that fewer than 20% of postpartum women initiated contraceptive use within 6 months of return of fecundity, and the percentage slowly increased to 34% by the 12th month. The methods of contraception used include injectables (40%), condoms (16%), traditional methods (16%), oral contraceptive pills (15%), female sterilization (10%), IUDs (3%) and implants (2%). Factors that increased the likelihood of contraceptive initiation after birth included women reporting autonomy in household decision making, use of contraception prior to pregnancy, ages 25–34 (compared to ages 15–24), and high wealth and education status.\n\nAnother study found that women who received postpartum counseling immediately after birth were more likely to use contraception than those who received counseling 3 months after birth or no counseling at all.\n\nPostnatal care is a vital part of maternal and newborn care because life-threatening complications can occur following delivery. Only 30.1% of women receive postnatal checkup within 2 days of delivery, and 45% of mothers and 32% of their babies receive some postnatal care within the first week of delivery. This care is usually provided by a nurse or midwife. Factors that make it more likely for women to receive postnatal care are delivery in a health facility, living in an urban area, living in Terai region, higher socioeconomic status and higher level of education.\n\nIn a study of Nepalese women done in 2015, postpartum depressive symptoms were found among 30% of women. Mothers aged 20 to 29 years, did not have a history of pregnancy-induced health problems or subjective feelings of stress were less likely to have depressive symptoms than mothers who were older or did not those problems or feelings of stress. Other significant factors associated with postpartum depression include husband's alcoholism, polygamy, previous depression, multiparity, smoking and depression during pregnancy.\n\nThe newborn period begins when the baby delivered. It is not specified when this period ends. The mother is the main caregiver of the baby. In some households, they hire a \"didi\" (maid).\n\nUpon delivery in home births, the umbilical cord is either cut with a razor blade provided in the clean home delivery kits distributed in Nepal, or with a kitchen knife or household sickle, which isn’t normally sterilized. The umbilical stump is left undressed or sometimes dressed with oil. The baby is then wrapped in old but cleaned cloth. Most babies are bathed (92%) and wrapped (94%) within an hour of birth. 59% of infants born outside of health facilities were wiped prior to the placenta being delivered.\n\nBecause of Nepal's rich historic, cultural and religious background, there are many traditions and rituals that its people practice.\n\nIn the Kathmandu Valley, the indigenous Newar people practice life-cycle rituals as rites of passage for both mother and newborn. Right after birth, the mother is secluded in a dark room with her baby. She cannot bathe, comb her hair, or look in the mirror. Food without salt is brought to the mother. The \"aji\" (midwife) comes to not only provide postpartum care, but also to perform \"machu bu benkyu\", the baby's first life-cycle rite to receive the blessings of Chwaasa Ajima, the Goddess of childbirth. Without the blessings of the Goddess, the baby may suffer from endless crying bouts and failure to thrive. This ritual is conducted between four and twelve days after birth, and is a way to formally introduce the newborn to its father and the rest of the family. It also marks the end of the mother's confinement period. During this ceremony, the baby is bathed in plain water and massaged with mustard oil. It is then wrapped in a clean scrap of cotton sari. At the end of the ritual, the baby is massaged in oil, its eyes outlined with \"gajal\" (soot from an oil lamp and butter), and its forehead marked with a black tika. The \"gajal\" is believed to beautify and clear the baby's eyes. This is how the baby is formally accepted as a member of the family.\n\nAnother ceremony common in Nepalese culture is \"nuwaran\", which is when the child is named. An astrologer providers a letter based on the baby's time of birth, and its name must begin with that letter. The astrologer also determines the number of syllables in the name. This usually occurs on the 8th day after birth for a girl, and 9th day for a boy.\n\nBreastfeeding is the norm is Nepal, with 98% of children ever breastfed. 44.5% of mothers initiated breastfeeding within an hour of delivery. The rate of exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months is 69.6% and rate of breastfeeding at age 2 is 92.6%. The median duration of exclusive breastfeeding is 4.2 months, while for any breastfeeding, in addition to complementary foods, is 33.6 months.\n\n\"Pashni\" is the rice feeding ceremony that occurs on the 5th month after birth for a girl and 6th month for a boy. The child is fed rice pudding by family members from a silver bowl with a silver spoon. With this ceremony, the child is no longer exclusively breastfed and can eat mashed food. The specific auspicious time for this ceremony is determined by an astrologer.\n\nAfter the baby is born, it is kept in a dark, quiet room with its mother for several days. The baby is massaged from the first day onwards to recreate an environment similar to the womb. The massage occurs twice a day as it is believed to have healing effects on the baby and reduce typical infant complaints like colics.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization (WHO), fewer than 20% of Nepalese males are circumcised.\n\nThe under-5 mortality rate has dropped from 142 per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 42 deaths in 2012. Infant mortality (under-1) is 39.14 deaths per 1,000 live births. Neonatal mortality rate is 24 per 1,000 live births.\n\nMortality rates are much higher in rural (55 deaths per 1,000 live births) than urban (38 deaths per 1,000 live births) areas. It is also higher in the northern Mountain Regions and the Far-western region. The median birth interval in Nepal is 36 months, which reduces the risk of infant death. However, 21% of infants are born less than 2 years after the previous birth, which increases the risk of under-5 mortality.\n\nChildren's nutritional status has improved over the years in Nepal, but the rates of malnutrition continue to be high. 41% of children under 5 in 2011 were stunted as a result of malnutrition, with higher concentrations in rural areas (42%) than urban areas (27%) and in the Western mountain (60%) than in Central hill and Eastern terai (31%). Percent of stunting has declined since 2001, when 57% of children under 5 were too short for their age. 29% of children under 5 were underweight in 2011, compared to 43% in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "46572604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46572604", "title": "Cortical modem", "text": "Cortical modem\n\nA cortical modem is a type of brain machine interface that specifically inject images directly into the visual cortex by way of a direct neural interface (DNI) chip. The true breakthrough goal lies in the information transfer speed. Both computers and the human brain can transfer information at incredible speeds, and the real bottleneck in the field of brain-computer interaction is the lack of data transfer speeds between the two.\n\n"}
{"id": "47006707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47006707", "title": "David Youngren", "text": "David Youngren\n\nDavid Youngren (born September 23, 1962) is a Sweden-born speaker, author, former pastor and film producer based out of San Diego, California. Before moving to the United States in 2005, Youngren served as the founding Pastor of World Harvest Church and Senior Pastor of Niagara Celebration Church, and was the President of World Harvest Bible College, Open Bible Faith Fellowship and Harvest International Ministries.\n\nYoungren has staged Christian festivals in India, Russia, Albania, Ukraine, Tanzania and South Africa. Youngren claims to have experienced healing from cluster headaches during meditation in 2006 that led him on an evolving spiritual journey and a new direction in his life and career. Youngren founderd Juma's World, formerly SaveAfricaNow, a charity that helps orphaned children in Tanzania.\n\nYoungren immigrated to Canada from Sweden in 1981 to attend college, and subsequently began full time Christian ministry, primarily in Canada in 1986. He would later travel to Russia, Africa, India and South America for large-scale outreaches.\n\nYoungren founded World Harvest Bible College and World Harvest Church in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada. Youngren served World Harvest Church as pastor for almost nine years.\n\nYoungren served a one-year term as president of Open Bible Faith Fellowship Canada in 2003 before moving to San Diego.\n\nIn 2006 Youngren began SaveAfricaNow and produced the documentary film “Africa Sing Me Your Song.” Youngren screened the film to audiences in 2007 and 2008.\n\nIn 2012 Youngren released “The Story” which follows a group of volunteers as they travel to Tanzania to help orphans whose parents have died of AIDS.\n\nIn January 2012 Youngren founded Gracewave Church in San Diego.\n\nYoungren hosted a radio program and a television program called “Life Without Limits.”\n\n"}
{"id": "39834502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39834502", "title": "Death of Sarah Guyard-Guillot", "text": "Death of Sarah Guyard-Guillot\n\nSarah \"Sasoun\" Guyard-Guillot (); (September 12, 1981 – June 29, 2013) was a French acrobat and aerialist who fell to her death during a performance of the Cirque du Soleil show \"Kà\" at MGM Grand in Las Vegas, Nevada, on June 29, 2013.\n\n\"Kà\" is a Cirque du Soleil show that plays at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas, Nevada. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\" the show \"may well be the most lavish production in the history of Western theater [and] is surely the most technologically advanced.\" It features a 360 degree rotating stage and 86 cast members. The stage does not have a permanent floor; it has several moving platforms that appear to float.\n\nGuyard-Guillot's fall was the second accident to halt a performance in less than a week. On June 26, 2013, a cast member suffered a minor concussion after slipping from a slack rope during a preview performance of \"\". Previously, two cast members were seriously injured during a 2007 performance of \"Zumanity\". In 2009, an acrobat died during a trampoline training accident.\n\nSarah Guyard-Guillot was born in Paris, France, and began her circus career in childhood. She graduated from the Annie Fratellini Art & Circus Academy. She worked as an acrobat and aerialist for 22 years. In 2006, Guyard-Guillot joined the cast of \"Kà\" as it opened at the MGM Grand. She ran a circus school class for children in Las Vegas called Cirquefit. She was formerly married to Mathieu Guyard, another \"Kà\" performer. At the time of her death, Guyard-Guillot's two daughters were 5 and 8.\n\nDuring the final battle scene of \"Kà\", the stage is oriented vertically and performers use harnesses attached to cables to move about. During this scene at the 9:30 pm show on June 29, 2013, Guyard-Guillot was hoisted up the side of the stage to a height of at least (some eyewitnesses said it may have been over ). According to an eyewitness, she \"then just plummeted down.\" Her harness apparently slipped free from its safety wire, causing her to fall into a pit, out of the audience's view. A spokesperson confirmed that the harness itself remained on Guyard-Guillot during her fall. \"Initially, a lot of people in the audience thought it was part of the choreographed fight,\" said an eyewitness. \"But you could hear screaming, then groaning, and we could hear a female artist crying from the stage.\" After her fall, the show was quickly stopped and a recording asked the audience to leave and said refunds would be offered. The other performers watched helplessly as they dangled in the air, before being lowered to safety, one by one.\n\nGuyard-Guillot died in the ambulance on the way to the hospital. She was pronounced dead at 11:43 pm. Guyard-Guillot's death was the first on-stage accident resulting in death in Cirque du Soleil's 30-year history. She is survived by her two children. She was 31 at the time of her death.\n\nOn July 2, 2013, the Clark County Coroner's office said Guyard-Guillot fell around , which is almost twice the distance reported initially. She died of blunt force trauma.\n\nAn official statement by Cirque du Soleil read, \"The entire Cirque du Soleil family is deeply saddened by the accidental death of Sarah (Sasoun) Guyard ... Our thoughts are with her family and the entire Cirque du Soleil family.\" Company founder Guy Laliberté said he was \"heartbroken\", and remarked, \"We are all completely devastated with this news ... [Guyard-Guillot] has been an integral part of our Cirque du Soleil tight family. We are reminded, with great humility and respect, how extraordinary our artists are each and every night.\" A memorial website was quickly flooded with condolences.\n\nPerformances of \"Kà\" were put on hold indefinitely. On July 14, 2013, it was announced that performances of the show (in a modified form) would resume on July 16, 2013, and that a full schedule would be resumed on July 23, 2013. The first performance was dedicated to Guillot-Guyard, who was described as \"an exceptional artist\". A formal investigation into Guyard-Guillot's death was launched by Nevada OSHA. John Fudenberg of the Clark County Coroner’s office, who worked with OSHA on the investigation, said, \"There is certainly safety apparatus that is used during any Cirque du Soleil show, and I know that company is very safety-conscious. We have to make sure we inspect the safety harnesses ... Our priority is to find out how this happened.\" The investigation was expected to take up to six months.\n\nOn October 29, 2013, the Nevada Occupational Safety and Health Administration (NVOSHA) issued six citations totaling $25,000 in fines and penalties for Cirque du Soleil Nevada, and three citations totaling $7,000 for the MGM Grand. Cirque du Soleil appealed the citations and in November 2013 all but one of the violations issued against Cirque du Soleil in the incident were withdrawn by agency investigators.\n\n"}
{"id": "20389237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20389237", "title": "Engineering informatics", "text": "Engineering informatics\n\nEngineering Informatics is an engineering discipline combining information technology (IT) – or informatics – with engineering concepts; It is an interdisciplinary scientific area focusing on the application of advanced computing, information and communication technologies to engineering; The study of use of information and the design of information structures that facilitate the practice of engineering and of designed artifacts that embody and embed information technology and science to achieve social, economic and environmental goals. Given this perspective, the rest of the introduction identifies different strands of concepts that inform and support the evolution of engineering informatics as a distinct discipline that lives at the interface between engineering and informatics, in the same vein as bioinformatics, geoinformatics, medical informatics, and other applied disciplines.\n\nComputer-aided design (CAD), intelligent CAD, engineering analysis, collaborative design support, computer-aided engineering, and product life-cycle management are some of the terms that have emerged over the past decades of computing in engineering. Codification and automation of engineering knowledge and methods have had major impact on engineering practice. The use of computers by engineers has consistently tracked advancements in computer and information sciences. Computing, algorithms, computational methods, and engineering have increasingly intertwined themselves as developments in theory and practice in both disciplines influence each other. Therefore, it is now time to begin using the term “engineering informatics” to cover the science of the information that flows through these processes.\n\nInformatics, with origins in the German word \"\"Informatik\" referring to automated information processing, has evolved to its current broad definition. The rise of the term informatics can be attributed to the breadth of disciplines that are now accepted and envisioned as contributing to the field of computing and information sciences. A common definition of informatics adopted by many departments/schools of informatics comes from the University of Edinburgh: \"the study of the structure, behavior, and interactions of natural and artificial computational systems that store, process and communicate information.\"” Informatics includes the science of information, the practice of information processing, and the engineering of information systems.\n\nThe history of engineering and computers shows a trend of increasing sophistication in the type of engineering problems being solved. Early CAD was primarily geometry driven (using mathematics and computer science). Then came the engineering use of AI, driven by theories of cognitive science and computational models of cognition (logic and pattern based). More recently, models of collaboration and representation and acquisition of collective knowledge have been introduced, driven by fields of social sciences (ethnography, sociology of work) and philosophy.\n\nInformation technology and sciences to have both created the need for, and play a role in, facilitating the management of complex sociotechnical processes. Information is context specific and its engineering is an integral part of any exchange among people and machines. Thus, informatics is the process of:\nEngineering informatics is a reflective task beyond the software/hardware that supports engineering; it is a cross-disciplinary perspective on the nature of collective intellectual work. It thereby becomes critical that a consciousness of the use of languages and their implications in the storage and retrieval of information in a work community be addressed as part of any information engineering task.\n\nThe role informatics plays in engineering products and services has become significant in the past decades. Most of the development has happened in an ad hoc manner, as can be expected. Techniques appeared in computer science and in programming practice; these techniques get used in engineering as is. Early computing in engineering was limited due to the capacities of computers. Computational power and telecommunications systems have started to converge, resulting in the possibilities of untethered connections and exchange of information that was just a distant dream in the early computing days. These developments have made the problems of distance less onerous and allow for global design, manufacturing, and supply chains. However, the problem of managing a global supply chain still is a daunting task with numerous incompatibilities in information exchange and coordination.\n\nThe problem of integrating entire sets of industries in a flexible and ad hoc manner is still a dream especially for small-scale industries within the larger global environment. For this dream to become a reality, standards become critical. With technology evolving continuously, the task of creating information standards for varieties of exchanges from the syntactic to the semantic is a challenge yet to be resolved.\n\nComputer scientists or engineers by themselves cannot solve engineering informatics problems or the processes required to manage information in the context of engineered systems—it has to be a collaborative effort. The lack of skills among computer scientists in engineering and engineers in computing has led to problems bridging the disciplines. What pedagogical stance can help prepare students to deal with the complexities that are inherent in the task of engineering informatics? The culture of learning has to encourage the appreciation of diversity at the same time looking for the core essence and canonical nature of the experiences. While the products of today are increasingly designed for variety, we still have not mastered this process conceptually, let alone are we preparing our students. The fundamental characteristic of engineering informatics is that it is applicable at local levels of decision making in a design process as well as at the holistic level of product management and organizational design.\n\nNowadays, people are entering an era of networks where different infrastructural networks can be connected through information networks. The information network can connect the manufacturing network to the design and supply chain network in almost real time using information systems that include sensors and ID tags. One’s imagination is the limit in this integrative power of information networks. It is this new complex world that we need to teach students, among other things, the ability to reflect on the information they use and how to handle this information, what it means to use (or not) computational tools, the need to create tools at different scales of inquiry and across disciplines, and how to view one’s own discipline from an engineering informatics point of view.\n\nIt encompasses engineering technology areas in:\n\nEngineering Informatics is a field of undergraduate study in some universities and polytechnics:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20525067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20525067", "title": "Friedhelm Konietzka", "text": "Friedhelm Konietzka\n\nFriedhelm \"Timo\" Konietzka (2 August 1938 – 12 March 2012) was a German football striker and manager. He earned his nickname \"Timo\" due to a supposed resemblance to the Soviet commander Semyon Timoshenko.\n\nKonietzka was born in Lünen, Province of Westphalia, and started his football career at his hometown club VfB 08 Lünen. In his youth (for five years since the age of 14) he worked in a coal mine. Max Merkel, coach of Borussia Dortmund at that time, discovered his talent when Konietzka was 20 and included him in the Dortmund squad. Together with fellow striker Jürgen Schütz, he formed the most dangerous attack of the Oberliga West. Konietzka played a total of 100 Bundesliga matches for Borussia Dortmund and TSV 1860 Munich and scored 72 goals, being the second best scorer of the league from 1964–1966 in the process. He was also capped nine times (three goals) for Germany between 1962 and 1965. Despite Konietzka's fine goalscoring record in the German league, German national team manager Sepp Herberger thought of him as too inconsistent, which could be one of the reasons Konietzka never featured regularly for the national side. On 24 August 1963, Konietzka scored the first goal in the Bundesliga for Borussia Dortmund against Werder Bremen in the first minute (at 16:59 German time, as the game had started slightly earlier than scheduled).\n\nHe won the German championship with Dortmund against 1. FC Köln in the last final before the introduction of the Bundesliga in 1963.\n\nKonietzka earned his place in football history books when he scored the very first goal of the newly founded Bundesliga in the first minute of a match between SV Werder Bremen and Borussia Dortmund on 24 August 1963. His biggest successes as a player were a DFB-Pokal title with Dortmund in 1965 and championship titles with Dortmund in 1963 and TSV 1860 Munich in 1966.\n\nHis coaching career included stints with Borussia Dortmund, Bayer Uerdingen, FC Zürich, BSC Young Boys and Grasshopper Club Zürich. He won three Swiss championships with FC Zürich between 1974 and 1976 and reached the semifinal of the 1976–1977 European Cup, where his Zürich side was knocked out by Liverpool F.C.. As coach of BSC Young Boys he twice reached the final of the Swiss Cup between 1978 and 1980.\n\nKonietzka's wife is named Claudia. He took Swiss citizenship in 1988. With help of euthanasia-organisation Exit International, he chose to end his life at the age of 73 in Brunnen, Canton of Schwyz. He had been suffering from cancer prior to his death on 12 March 2012.\n\n\nBorussia Dortmund\n\nTSV 1860 München\n\nFC Zürich\n\n"}
{"id": "42970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42970", "title": "Future history", "text": "Future history\n\nA future history is a postulated history of the future and is used by authors of science fiction and other speculative fiction to construct a common background for fiction. Sometimes the author publishes a timeline of events in the history, while other times the reader can reconstruct the order of the stories from information provided therein.\n\nThe term appears to have been coined by John W. Campbell, Jr., the editor of \"Astounding Science Fiction\", in the February 1941 issue of that magazine, in reference to Robert A. Heinlein's \"Future History\". Neil R. Jones is generally credited as the first author to create a future history.\n\nA set of stories which share a backdrop but are not really concerned with the sequence of history in their universe are rarely considered future histories. For example, neither Lois McMaster Bujold's \"Vorkosigan Saga\" nor George R. R. Martin's 1970s short stories which share a backdrop are generally considered future histories. Standalone stories which trace an arc of history are rarely considered future histories. For example, Walter M. Miller Jr.'s \"A Canticle for Leibowitz\" is not generally considered a future history.\n\nEarlier, some works were published which constituted \"future history\" in a more literal sense—i.e., stories or whole books purporting to be excerpts of a history book from the future and which are written in the form of a history book—i.e., having no personal protagonists but rather describing the development of nations and societies over decades and centuries.\n\nSuch works include:\n\n\n\nUnlike alternate history, where alternative outcomes are ascribed to past events, future history postulates certain outcomes to events in the writer's present and future.\n\nThe essential difference is that the writer of alternate history is in possession of knowledge of the actual outcome of a certain event, and that knowledge influences also the description of the event's alternate outcome. The writer of future history does not have such knowledge, such works being based on speculations and predictions current at the time of writing—which often turn out to be wildly inaccurate.\n\nFor example, in 1933 H. G. Wells postulated in \"The Shape of Things to Come\" a Second World War in which Nazi Germany and Poland are evenly matched militarily, fighting an indecisive war over ten years; and Poul Anderson's early 1950s Psychotechnic League depicted a world undergoing a devastating nuclear war in 1958, yet by the early 21st century managing not only to rebuild the ruins on Earth but also engage in extensive space colonization of the Moon and several planets. A writer possessing knowledge of the actual swift collapse of Poland in World War II and the enormous actual costs of far less ambitious space programs in a far less devastated world would have been unlikely to postulate such outcomes. \"\" was set in the future and featured developments in space travel and habitation which have not occurred on the timescale postulated.\n\nA problem with future history science fiction is that it will date and be overtaken by real historical events, for instance H. Beam Piper's future history, which included a nuclear war in 1973, and much of the future history of \"Star Trek\". Jerry Pournelle's \"CoDominium\" future history assumed that the Cold War would end with the United States and Soviet Union establishing a co-rule of the world, the CoDominium of the title, which would last into the 22nd Century—rather than the Soviet Union collapsing in 1991. \n\nThere are several ways this is dealt with. One solution to the problem is when some authors set their stories in an indefinite future, often in a society where the current calendar has been disrupted due to a societal collapse or undergone some form of distortion due to the impact of technology. Related to the first, some stories are set in the very remote future and only deal with the author's contemporary history in a sketchy fashion, if at all (e.g. the original \"Foundation\" Trilogy by Asimov). Another related case is where stories are set in the near future, but with an explicitly allohistorical past, as in Ken MacLeod's \"Engines of Light\" series.\n\nIn other cases, such as the \"Star Trek\" universe, the merging of the fictional history and the known history is done through extensive use of retroactive continuity. In yet other cases, such as the \"Doctor Who\" television series and the fiction based on it, much use is made of secret history, in which the events that take place are largely secret and not known to the general public.\n\nAs with Heinlein, some authors simply write a detailed future history and accept the fact that events will overtake it, making the sequence into a \"de facto\" alternate history.\n\nLastly, some writers formally transform their future histories into alternate history, once they had been overtaken by events. For example, Poul Anderson started The Psychotechnic League history in the early 1950s, assuming a nuclear war in 1958—then a future date. When it was republished in the 1980s, a new foreword was added explaining how that history's timeline diverged from ours and led to war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1508301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508301", "title": "Futures studies", "text": "Futures studies\n\nFutures studies (also called futurology) is the study of postulating possible, probable, and preferable futures and the worldviews and myths that underlie them. In general, it can be considered as a branch of the social sciences and parallel to the field of history. Futures studies (colloquially called \"futures\" by many of the field's practitioners) seeks to understand what is likely to continue and what could plausibly change. Part of the discipline thus seeks a systemic and pattern-based understanding of past and present, and to determine the likelihood of future events and trends.\n\nUnlike the physical sciences where a narrower, more specified system is studied, futures studies concerns a much bigger and more complex world system. The methodology and knowledge are much less proven as compared to natural science or even social science like sociology and economics. There is a debate as to whether this discipline is an art or science and sometimes described by scientists as pseudoscience.\n\nFutures studies is an interdisciplinary field, studying past and present changes, and aggregating and analyzing both lay and professional strategies and opinions with respect to future. It includes analyzing the sources, patterns, and causes of change and stability in an attempt to develop foresight and to map possible futures. Around the world the field is variously referred to as futures studies, strategic foresight, futuristics, futures thinking, futuring, and futurology. Futures studies and strategic foresight are the academic field's most commonly used terms in the English-speaking world.\n\nForesight was the original term and was first used in this sense by H.G. Wells in 1932. \"Futurology\" is a term common in encyclopedias, though it is used almost exclusively by nonpractitioners today, at least in the English-speaking world. \"Futurology\" is defined as the \"study of the future.\" The term was coined by German professor Ossip K. Flechtheim in the mid-1940s, who proposed it as a new branch of knowledge that would include a new science of probability. This term may have fallen from favor in recent decades because modern practitioners stress the importance of alternative and plural futures, rather than one monolithic future, and the limitations of prediction and probability, versus the creation of possible and preferable futures.\n\nThree factors usually distinguish futures studies from the research conducted by other disciplines (although all of these disciplines overlap, to differing degrees). First, futures studies often examines not only possible but also probable, preferable, and \"wild card\" futures. Second, futures studies typically attempts to gain a holistic or systemic view based on insights from a range of different disciplines, generally focusing on the STEEP categories of Social, Technological, Economic, Environmental and Political. Third, futures studies challenges and unpacks the assumptions behind dominant and contending views of the future. The future thus is not empty but fraught with hidden assumptions. For example, many people expect the collapse of the Earth's ecosystem in the near future, while others believe the current ecosystem will survive indefinitely. A foresight approach would seek to analyze and highlight the assumptions underpinning such views.\n\nAs a field, futures studies expands on the research component, by emphasizing the communication of a strategy and the actionable steps needed to implement the plan or plans leading to the preferable future. It is in this regard, that futures studies evolves from an academic exercise to a more traditional business-like practice, looking to better prepare organizations for the future.\n\nFutures studies does not generally focus on short term predictions such as interest rates over the next business cycle, or of managers or investors with short-term time horizons. Most strategic planning, which develops operational plans for preferred futures with time horizons of one to three years, is also not considered futures. Plans and strategies with longer time horizons that specifically attempt to anticipate possible future events are definitely part of the field. As a rule, futures studies is generally concerned with changes of transformative impact, rather than those of an incremental or narrow scope.\n\nThe futures field also excludes those who make future predictions through professed supernatural means.\n\nJohan Galtung and Sohail Inayatullah argue in \"Macrohistory and Macrohistorians\" that the search for grand patterns of social change goes all the way back to Ssu-Ma Chien (145-90BC) and his theory of the cycles of virtue, although the work of Ibn Khaldun (1332–1406) such as \"The Muqaddimah\" would be an example that is perhaps more intelligible to modern sociology. Early western examples include Sir Thomas More’s “Utopia,” published in 1516, and based upon Plato’s “Republic,” in which a future society has overcome poverty and misery to create a perfect model for living. This work was so powerful that utopias have come to represent positive and fulfilling futures in which everyone’s needs are met.\n\nSome intellectual foundations of futures studies appeared in the mid-19th century. Isadore Comte, considered the father of scientific philosophy, was heavily influenced by the work of utopian socialist Henri Saint-Simon, and his discussion of the metapatterns of social change presages futures studies as a scholarly dialogue.\n\nThe first works that attempt to make systematic predictions for the future were written in the 18th century. \"Memoirs of the Twentieth Century\" written by Samuel Madden in 1733, takes the form of a series of diplomatic letters written in 1997 and 1998 from British representatives in the foreign cities of Constantinople, Rome, Paris, and Moscow. However, the technology of the 20th century is identical to that of Madden's own era - the focus is instead on the political and religious state of the world in the future. Madden went on to write \"The Reign of George VI, 1900 to 1925\", where (in the context of the boom in canal construction at the time) he envisioned a large network of waterways that would radically transform patterns of living - \"Villages grew into towns and towns became cities\".\n\nIn 1845, Scientific American, the oldest continuously published magazine in the U.S., began publishing articles about scientific and technological research, with a focus upon the future implications of such research. It would be followed in 1872 by the magazine Popular Science, which was aimed at a more general readership.\n\nThe genre of science fiction became established towards the end of the 19th century, with notable writers, including Jules Verne and H. G. Wells, setting their stories in an imagined future world.\n\nAccording to W. Warren Wagar, the founder of future studies was H. G. Wells. His \"Anticipations of the Reaction of Mechanical and Scientific Progress Upon Human Life and Thought: An Experiment in Prophecy\", was first serially published in \"The Fortnightly Review\" in 1901. Anticipating what the world would be like in the year 2000, the book is interesting both for its hits (trains and cars resulting in the dispersion of population from cities to suburbs; moral restrictions declining as men and women seek greater sexual freedom; the defeat of German militarism, the existence of a European Union, and a world order maintained by \"English-speaking peoples\" based on the urban core between Chicago and New York) and its misses (he did not expect successful aircraft before 1950, and averred that \"my imagination refuses to see any sort of submarine doing anything but suffocate its crew and founder at sea\").\n\nMoving from narrow technological predictions, Wells envisioned the eventual collapse of the capitalist world system after a series of destructive total wars. From this havoc would ultimately emerge a world of peace and plenty, controlled by competent technocrats.\n\nThe work was a bestseller, and Wells was invited to deliver a lecture at the Royal Institution in 1902, entitled \"The Discovery of the Future\". The lecture was well-received and was soon republished in book form. He advocated for the establishment of a new academic study of the future that would be grounded in scientific methodology rather than just speculation. He argued that a scientifically ordered vision of the future \"will be just as certain, just as strictly science, and perhaps just as detailed as the picture that has been built up within the last hundred years to make the geological past.\" Although conscious of the difficulty in arriving at entirely accurate predictions, he thought that it would still be possible to arrive at a \"working knowledge of things in the future\".\n\nIn his fictional works, Wells predicted the invention and use of the atomic bomb in \"The World Set Free\" (1914). In \"The Shape of Things to Come\" (1933) the impending World War and cities destroyed by aerial bombardment was depicted. However, he didn't stop advocating for the establishment of a futures science. In a 1933 BBC broadcast he called for the establishment of \"Departments and Professors of Foresight\", foreshadowing the development of modern academic futures studies by approximately 40 years.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century future works were often shaped by political forces and turmoil. The WWI era led to adoption of futures thinking in institutions throughout Europe. The Russian Revolution led to the 1921 establishment of the Soviet Union’s Gosplan, or State Planning Committee, which was active until the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Gosplan was responsible for economic planning and created plans in five year increments to govern the economy. One of the first Soviet dissidents, Yevgeny Zamyatin, published the first dystopian novel, \"We\", in 1921. The science fiction and political satire featured a future police state and was the first work censored by the Soviet censorship board, leading to Zamyatin’s political exile.\n\nIn the United States, President Hoover created the Research Committee on Social Trends, which produced a report in 1933. The head of the committee, William F. Ogburn, analyzed the past to chart trends and project those trends into the future, with a focus on technology. Similar technique was used during The Great Depression, with the addition of alternative futures and a set of likely outcomes that resulted in the creation of Social Security and the Tennessee Valley development project.\n\nThe WWII era emphasized the growing need for foresight. The Nazis used strategic plans to unify and mobilize their society with a focus on creating a fascist utopia. This planning and the subsequent war forced global leaders to create their own strategic plans in response. The post-war era saw the creation of numerous nation states with complex political alliances and was further complicated by the introduction of nuclear power.\n\nProject RAND was created in 1946 as joint project between the United States Army Air Forces and the Douglas Aircraft Company, and later incorporated as the non-profit RAND corporation. Their objective was the future of weapons, and long-range planning to meet future threats. Their work has formed the basis of US strategy and policy in regard to nuclear weapons, the Cold War, and the space race.\n\nFutures studies truly emerged as an academic discipline in the mid-1960s. First-generation futurists included Herman Kahn, an American Cold War strategist for the RAND Corporation who wrote \"On Thermonuclear War\" (1960), \"Thinking about the unthinkable\" (1962) and \"The Year 2000: a framework for speculation on the next thirty-three years\" (1967); Bertrand de Jouvenel, a French economist who founded Futuribles International in 1960; and Dennis Gabor, a Hungarian-British scientist who wrote \"Inventing the Future\" (1963) and \"The Mature Society. A View of the Future\" (1972).\n\nFuture studies had a parallel origin with the birth of systems science in academia, and with the idea of national economic and political planning, most notably in France and the Soviet Union. In the 1950s, the people of France were continuing to reconstruct their war-torn country. In the process, French scholars, philosophers, writers, and artists searched for what could constitute a more positive future for humanity. The Soviet Union similarly participated in postwar rebuilding, but did so in the context of an established national economic planning process, which also required a long-term, systemic statement of social goals. Future studies was therefore primarily engaged in national planning, and the construction of national symbols.\n\nBy contrast, in the United States, futures studies as a discipline emerged from the successful application of the tools and perspectives of systems analysis, especially with regard to quartermastering the war-effort. The Society for General Systems Research, founded in 1955, sought to understand cybernetics and the practical application of systems sciences, greatly influencing the U.S. foresight community. These differing origins account for an initial schism between futures studies in America and futures studies in Europe: U.S. practitioners focused on applied projects, quantitative tools and systems analysis, whereas Europeans preferred to investigate the long-range future of humanity and the Earth, what might constitute that future, what symbols and semantics might express it, and who might articulate these.\n\nBy the 1960s, academics, philosophers, writers and artists across the globe had begun to explore enough future scenarios so as to fashion a common dialogue. Several of the most notable writers to emerge during this era include: sociologist Fred L. Polak, whose work \"Images of the Future\" (1961) discusses the importance of images to society’s creation of the future; Marshall McLuhan, whose \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\" (1962) and \"Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man\" (1964) put forth his theories on how technologies change our cognitive understanding; and Rachel Carson’s \"The Silent Spring\" (1962) which was hugely influential not only to future studies but also the creation of the environmental movement.\n\nInventors such as Buckminster Fuller also began highlighting the effect technology might have on global trends as time progressed.\n\nBy the 1970s there was an obvious shift in the use and development of futures studies; it’s focus was no longer exclusive to governments and militaries. Instead, it embraced a wide array of technologies, social issues, and concerns. This discussion on the intersection of population growth, resource availability and use, economic growth, quality of life, and environmental sustainability – referred to as the \"global problematique\" – came to wide public attention with the publication of \"Limits to Growth\", a study sponsored by the Club of Rome which detailed the results of a computer simulation of the future based on economic and population growth. Public investment in the future was further enhanced by the publication of Alvin Toffler’s bestseller \"Future Shock\" (1970), and its exploration of how great amounts of change can overwhelm people and create a social paralysis due to “information overload.”\n\nInternational dialogue became institutionalized in the form of the World Futures Studies Federation (WFSF), founded in 1967, with the noted sociologist, Johan Galtung, serving as its first president. In the United States, the publisher Edward Cornish, concerned with these issues, started the World Future Society, an organization focused more on interested laypeople.\n\nThe first doctoral program on the Study of the Future, was founded in 1969 at the University Of Massachusetts by Christoper Dede and Billy Rojas.The next graduate program (Master's degree) was also founded by Christopher Dede in 1975 at the University of Houston–Clear Lake. Oliver Markley of SRI (now SRI International) was hired in 1978 to move the program into a more applied and professional direction. The program moved to the University of Houston in 2007 and renamed the degree to Foresight. The program has remained focused on preparing professional futurists and providing high-quality foresight training for individuals and organizations in business, government, education, and non-profits. In 1976, the M.A. Program in Public Policy in Alternative Futures at the University of Hawaii at Manoa was established. The Hawaii program locates futures studies within a pedagogical space defined by neo-Marxism, critical political economic theory, and literary criticism. In the years following the foundation of these two programs, single courses in Futures Studies at all levels of education have proliferated, but complete programs occur only rarely. In 2012, the Finland Futures Research Centre started a master's degree Programme in Futures Studies at Turku School of Economics, a business school which is part of the University of Turku in Turku, Finland.\n\nAs a transdisciplinary field, futures studies attracts generalists. This transdisciplinary nature can also cause problems, owing to it sometimes falling between the cracks of disciplinary boundaries; it also has caused some difficulty in achieving recognition within the traditional curricula of the sciences and the humanities. In contrast to \"Futures Studies\" at the undergraduate level, some graduate programs in strategic leadership or management offer masters or doctorate programs in \"strategic foresight\" for mid-career professionals, some even online. Nevertheless, comparatively few new PhDs graduate in Futures Studies each year.\n\nThe field currently faces the great challenge of creating a coherent conceptual framework, codified into a well-documented curriculum (or curricula) featuring widely accepted and consistent concepts and theoretical paradigms linked to quantitative and qualitative methods, exemplars of those research methods, and guidelines for their ethical and appropriate application within society. As an indication that previously disparate intellectual dialogues have in fact started converging into a recognizable discipline, at least six solidly-researched and well-accepted first attempts to synthesize a coherent framework for the field have appeared: 's \"Why Futures Studies?\", James Dator's \"Advancing Futures Studies\", Ziauddin Sardar's \"Rescuing all of our Futures\", Sohail Inayatullah's \"Questioning the future\", Richard A. Slaughter's \"The Knowledge Base of Futures Studies\", a collection of essays by senior practitioners, and Wendell Bell's two-volume work, \"The Foundations of Futures Studies\".\n\nSome aspects of the future, such as celestial mechanics, are highly predictable, and may even be described by relatively simple mathematical models. At present however, science has yielded only a special minority of such \"easy to predict\" physical processes. Theories such as chaos theory, nonlinear science and standard evolutionary theory have allowed us to understand many complex systems as contingent (sensitively dependent on complex environmental conditions) and stochastic (random within constraints), making the vast majority of future events unpredictable, \"in any specific case\".\n\nNot surprisingly, the tension between predictability and unpredictability is a source of controversy and conflict among futures studies scholars and practitioners. Some argue that the future is essentially unpredictable, and that \"the best way to predict the future is to create it.\" Others believe, as Flechtheim, that advances in science, probability, modeling and statistics will allow us to continue to improve our understanding of probable futures, while this area presently remains less well developed than methods for exploring possible and preferable futures.\n\nAs an example, consider the process of electing the president of the United States. At one level we observe that any U.S. citizen over 35 may run for president, so this process may appear too unconstrained for useful prediction. Yet further investigation demonstrates that only certain public individuals (current and former presidents and vice presidents, senators, state governors, popular military commanders, mayors of very large cities, etc.) receive the appropriate \"social credentials\" that are historical prerequisites for election. Thus with a minimum of effort at formulating the problem for statistical prediction, a much reduced pool of candidates can be described, improving our probabilistic foresight. Applying further statistical intelligence to this problem, we can observe that in certain election prediction markets such as the Iowa Electronic Markets, reliable forecasts have been generated over long spans of time and conditions, with results superior to individual experts or polls. Such markets, which may be operated publicly or as an internal market, are just one of several promising frontiers in predictive futures research.\n\nSuch improvements in the predictability of individual events do not though, from a complexity theory viewpoint, address the unpredictability inherent in dealing with entire systems, which emerge from the interaction between multiple individual events.\n\nFuturology is sometimes described by scientists as pseudoscience.\n\nIn terms of methodology, futures practitioners employ a wide range of approaches, models and methods, in both theory and practice, many of which are derived from or informed by other academic or professional disciplines [https://books.google.com/books?id=ILJ_pfMgLqsC&pg=PA242&lpg=PA242&dq=futurists+borrow+from+other+disciplines&source=bl&ots=ycoWOEgcIS&sig=J-Nv6SzqAv-DLsGc7608ZuPyV5I&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwi31u3GgMHSAhXpj1QKHUxBCOAQ6AEIIzAA#v=onepage&q=futurists%20borrow%2 <nowiki>[1]</nowiki>], including social sciences such as economics, psychology, sociology, religious studies, cultural studies, history, geography, and political science; physical and life sciences such as physics, chemistry, astronomy, biology; mathematics, including statistics, game theory and econometrics; applied disciplines such as engineering, computer sciences, and business management (particularly strategy).\n\nThe largest internationally peer-reviewed collection of futures research methods (1,300 pages) is Futures Research Methodology 3.0. Each of the 37 methods or groups of methods contains: an executive overview of each method’s history, description of the method,\nprimary and alternative usages, strengths and weaknesses, uses in combination with other methods, and speculation about future evolution of the method. Some also contain appendixes with applications, links to software, and sources for further information.\n\nGiven its unique objectives and material, the practice of futures studies only rarely features employment of the scientific method in the sense of controlled, repeatable and verifiable experiments with highly standardized methodologies. However, many futurists are informed by scientific techniques or work primarily within scientific domains. Borrowing from history, the futurist might project patterns observed in past civilizations upon present-day society to model what might happen in the future, or borrowing from technology, the futurist may model possible social and cultural responses to an emerging technology based on established principles of the diffusion of innovation. In short, the futures practitioner enjoys the synergies of an interdisciplinary laboratory.\n\nAs the plural term “futures” suggests, one of the fundamental assumptions in futures studies is that the future is plural not singular.[http://www.futures.hawaii.edu/publications/futures-studies/DatorFuturesStudies.pdf <nowiki>[2]</nowiki>] That is, the future consists not of one inevitable future that is to be “predicted,” but rather of multiple alternative futures of varying likelihood which may be derived and described, and about which it is impossible to say with certainty which one will occur. The primary effort in futures studies, then, is to identify and describe alternative futures in order to better understand the driving forces of the present or the structural dynamics of a particular subject or subjects. The exercise of identifying alternative futures includes collecting quantitative and qualitative data about the possibility, probability, and desirability of change. The plural term \"futures\" in futures studies denotes both the rich variety of alternative futures, including the subset of preferable futures (normative futures), that can be studied, as well as the tenet that the future is many.\n\nAt present, the general futures studies model has been summarized as being concerned with \"three Ps and a W\", or possible, probable, and preferable futures, plus wildcards, which are low probability but high impact events (positive or negative). Many futurists, however, do not use the wild card approach. Rather, they use a methodology called Emerging Issues Analysis. It searches for the drivers of change, issues that are likely to move from unknown to the known, from low impact to high impact.\n\nIn terms of technique, futures practitioners originally concentrated on extrapolating present technological, economic or social trends, or on attempting to predict future trends. Over time, the discipline has come to put more and more focus on the examination of social systems and uncertainties, to the end of articulating scenarios. The practice of scenario development facilitates the examination of worldviews and assumptions through the causal layered analysis method (and others), the creation of preferred visions of the future, and the use of exercises such as backcasting to connect the present with alternative futures. Apart from extrapolation and scenarios, many dozens of methods and techniques are used in futures research (see below).\n\nThe general practice of futures studies also sometimes includes the articulation of normative or preferred futures, and a major thread of practice involves connecting both extrapolated (exploratory) and normative research to assist individuals and organizations to model preferred futures amid shifting social changes. Practitioners use varying proportions of collaboration, creativity and research to derive and define alternative futures, and to the degree that a “preferred” future might be sought, especially in an organizational context, techniques may also be deployed to develop plans or strategies for directed future shaping or implementation of a preferred future.\n\nWhile some futurists are not concerned with assigning probability to future scenarios, other futurists find probabilities useful in certain situations, such as when probabilities stimulate thinking about scenarios within organizations [https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/2870/f9cef0b618c480312802fbb78e49bd69fa83.pdf <nowiki>[3]</nowiki>]. When dealing with the three Ps and a W model, estimates of probability are involved with two of the four central concerns (discerning and classifying both probable and wildcard events), while considering the range of possible futures, recognizing the plurality of existing alternative futures, characterizing and attempting to resolve normative disagreements on the future, and envisioning and creating preferred futures are other major areas of scholarship. Most estimates of probability in futures studies are normative and qualitative, though significant progress on statistical and quantitative methods (technology and information growth curves, cliometrics, predictive psychology, prediction markets, crowdvoting forecasts, etc.) has been made in recent decades.\n\nFutures techniques or methodologies may be viewed as “frameworks for making sense of data generated by structured processes to think about the future”. There is no single set of methods that are appropriate for all futures research. Different futures researchers intentionally or unintentionally promote use of favored techniques over a more structured approach. Selection of methods for use on futures research projects has so far been dominated by the intuition and insight of practitioners; but can better identify a balanced selection of techniques via acknowledgement of foresight as a process together with familiarity with the fundamental attributes of most commonly used methods.\n\nFuturists use a diverse range of forecasting methods including:\n\n\nFuturists use scenarios – alternative possible futures – as an important tool. To some extent, people can determine what they consider probable or desirable using qualitative and quantitative methods. By looking at a variety of possibilities one comes closer to shaping the future, rather than merely predicting it. Shaping alternative futures starts by establishing a number of scenarios. Setting up scenarios takes place as a process with many stages. One of those stages involves the study of trends. A trend persists long-term and long-range; it affects many societal groups, grows slowly and appears to have a profound basis. In contrast, a fad operates in the short term, shows the vagaries of fashion, affects particular societal groups, and spreads quickly but superficially.\n\nSample predicted futures range from predicted ecological catastrophes, through a utopian future where the poorest human being lives in what present-day observers would regard as wealth and comfort, through the transformation of humanity into a posthuman life-form, to the destruction of all life on Earth in, say, a nanotechnological disaster.\n\nFuturists have a decidedly mixed reputation and a patchy track record at successful prediction. For reasons of convenience, they often extrapolate present technical and societal trends and assume they will develop at the same rate into the future; but technical progress and social upheavals, in reality, take place in fits and starts and in different areas at different rates.\n\nMany 1950s futurists predicted commonplace space tourism by the year 2000, but ignored the possibilities of ubiquitous, cheap computers. On the other hand, many forecasts have portrayed the future with some degree of accuracy. Current futurists often present multiple scenarios that help their audience envision what \"may\" occur instead of merely \"predicting the future\". They claim that understanding potential scenarios helps individuals and organizations prepare with flexibility.\n\nMany corporations use futurists as part of their risk management strategy, for horizon scanning and emerging issues analysis, and to identify wild cards – low probability, potentially high-impact risks. Every successful and unsuccessful business engages in futuring to some degree – for example in research and development, innovation and market research, anticipating competitor behavior and so on.\n\nIn futures research \"weak signals\" may be understood as advanced, noisy and socially situated indicators of change in trends and systems that constitute raw informational material for enabling anticipatory action. There is some confusion about the definition of weak signal by various researchers and consultants. Sometimes it is referred as future oriented information, sometimes more like emerging issues. The confusion has been partly clarified with the concept 'the future sign', by separating signal, issue and interpretation of the future sign.\n\nA weak signal can be an early indicator of coming change, and an example might also help clarify the confusion. On May 27, 2012, hundreds of people gathered for a “Take the Flour Back” demonstration at Rothamsted Research in Harpenden, UK, to oppose a publicly funded trial of genetically modified wheat. This was a weak signal for a broader shift in consumer sentiment against genetically modified foods. When Whole Foods mandated the labeling of GMOs in 2013, this non-GMO idea had already become a trend and was about to be a topic of mainstream awareness.\n\n\"Wild cards\" refer to low-probability and high-impact events, such as existential risks. This concept may be embedded in standard foresight projects and introduced into anticipatory decision-making activity in order to increase the ability of social groups adapt to surprises arising in turbulent business environments. Such sudden and unique incidents might constitute turning points in the evolution of a certain trend or system. Wild cards may or may not be announced by weak signals, which are incomplete and fragmented data from which relevant foresight information might be inferred.\nSometimes, mistakenly, wild cards and weak signals are considered as synonyms, which they are not. One of the most often cited examples of a wild card event in recent history is 9/11. Nothing had happened in the past that could point to such a possibility and yet it had a huge impact on everyday life in the United States, from simple tasks like how to travel via airplane to deeper cultural values. Wild card events might also be natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, which can force the relocation of huge populations and wipe out entire crops to completely disrupt the supply chain of many businesses. Although wild card events can’t be predicted, after they occur it is often easy to reflect back and convincingly explain why they happened.\n\nA long-running tradition in various cultures, and especially in the media, involves various spokespersons making predictions for the upcoming year at the beginning of the year. These predictions sometimes base themselves on current trends in culture (music, movies, fashion, politics); sometimes they make hopeful guesses as to what major events might take place over the course of the next year.\n\nSome of these predictions come true as the year unfolds, though many fail. When predicted events fail to take place, the authors of the predictions often state that misinterpretation of the \"signs\" and portents may explain the failure of the prediction.\n\nMarketers have increasingly started to embrace futures studies, in an effort to benefit from an increasingly competitive marketplace with fast production cycles, using such techniques as trendspotting as popularized by Faith Popcorn.\n\nTrends come in different sizes. A mega-trend extends over many generations, and in cases of climate, mega-trends can cover periods prior to human existence. They describe complex interactions between many factors. The increase in population from the palaeolithic period to the present provides an example.\n\nPossible new trends grow from innovations, projects, beliefs or actions that have the potential to grow and eventually go mainstream in the future.\n\nVery often, trends relate to one another the same way as a tree-trunk relates to branches and twigs. For example, a well-documented movement toward equality between men and women might represent a branch trend. The trend toward reducing differences in the salaries of men and women in the Western world could form a twig on that branch.\n\nWhen a potential trend gets enough confirmation in the various media, surveys or questionnaires to show that it has an increasingly accepted value, behavior or technology, it becomes accepted as a bona fide trend. Trends can also gain confirmation by the existence of other trends perceived as springing from the same branch. Some commentators claim that when 15% to 25% of a given population integrates an innovation, project, belief or action into their daily life then a trend becomes mainstream.\nBecause new advances in technology have the potential to reshape our society, one of the jobs of a futurist is to follow these developments and consider their implications. However, the latest innovations take time to make an impact. Every new technology goes through its own life cycle of maturity, adoption, and social application that must be taken into consideration before a probable vision of the future can be created.\n\nGartner created their Hype Cycle to illustrate the phases a technology moves through as it grows from research and development to mainstream adoption. The unrealistic expectations and subsequent disillusionment that virtual reality experienced in the 1990s and early 2000s is an example of the middle phases encountered before a technology can begin to be integrated into society.\n\nEducation in the field of futures studies has taken place for some time. Beginning in the United States of America in the 1960s, it has since developed in many different countries. Futures education encourages the use of concepts, tools and processes that allow students to think long-term, consequentially, and imaginatively. It generally helps students to:\nThorough documentation of the history of futures education exists, for example in the work of Richard A. Slaughter (2004), David Hicks, Ivana Milojević to name a few.\n\nWhile futures studies remains a relatively new academic tradition, numerous tertiary institutions around the world teach it. These vary from small programs, or universities with just one or two classes, to programs that offer certificates and incorporate futures studies into other degrees, (for example in planning, business, environmental studies, economics, development studies, science and technology studies). Various formal Masters-level programs exist on six continents. Finally, doctoral dissertations around the world have incorporated futures studies. A recent survey documented approximately 50 cases of futures studies at the tertiary level.\n\nThe largest Futures Studies program in the world is at Tamkang University, Taiwan. Futures Studies is a required course at the undergraduate level, with between three and five thousand students taking classes on an annual basis. Housed in the Graduate Institute of Futures Studies is an MA Program. Only ten students are accepted annually in the program. Associated with the program is the \"Journal of Futures Studies\".\n\nThe longest running Future Studies program in North America was established in 1975 at the University of Houston–Clear Lake. It moved to the University of Houston in 2007 and renamed the degree to Foresight. The program was established on the belief that if history is studied and taught in an academic setting, then so should the future. Its mission is to prepare professional futurists. The curriculum incorporates a blend of the essential theory, a framework and methods for doing the work, and a focus on application for clients in business, government, nonprofits, and society in general.\n\nAs of 2003, over 40 tertiary education establishments around the world were delivering one or more courses in futures studies. The World Futures Studies Federation has a comprehensive survey of global futures programs and courses. The Acceleration Studies Foundation maintains an annotated list of primary and secondary graduate futures studies programs.\n\nOrganizations such as Teach The Future also aim to promote future studies in the secondary school curriculum in order to develop structured approaches to thinking about the future in public school students. The rationale is that a sophisticated approach to thinking about, anticipating, and planning for the future is a core skill requirement that every student should have, similar to literacy and math skills.\n\nSeveral corporations and government agencies utilize foresight products to both better understand potential risks and prepare for potential opportunities. Several government agencies publish material for internal stakeholders as well as make that material available to broader public. Examples of this include the US Congressional Budget Office long term budget projections, the National Intelligence Center, and the United Kingdom Government Office for Science. Much of this material is used by policy makers to inform policy decisions and government agencies to develop long term plan. Several corporations, particularly those with long product development lifecycles, utilize foresight and future studies products and practitioners in the development of their business strategies. The Shell Corporation is one such entity. Foresight professionals and their tools are increasingly being utilized in both the private and public areas to help leaders deal with an increasingly complex and interconnected world.\n\nDesign and futures studies have many synergies as interdisciplinary fields with a natural orientation towards the future. Both incorporate studies of human behavior, global trends, strategic insights, and anticipatory solutions.\n\nDesigners have adopted futures methodologies including scenarios, trend forecasting, and futures research. Design thinking and specific techniques including ethnography, rapid prototyping, and critical design have been incorporated into in futures as well. In addition to borrowing techniques from one another, futurists and designers have joined to form agencies marrying both competencies to positive effect. The continued interrelation of the two fields is an encouraging trend that has spawned much interesting work.\n\nThe Association for Professional Futurists has also held meetings discussing the ways in which Design Thinking and Futures Thinking intersect and benefit one another.\n\nImperial cycles represent an \"expanding pulsation\" of \"mathematically describable\" macro-historic trend. The List of largest empires contains imperial record progression in terms of territory or percentage of world population under single imperial rule.\n\nChinese philosopher K'ang Yu-wei and French demographer Georges Vacher de Lapouge in the late 19th century were the first to stress that the trend cannot proceed indefinitely on the definite surface of the globe. The trend is bound to culminate in a world empire. K'ang Yu-wei estimated that the matter will be decided in the contest between Washington and Berlin; Vacher de Lapouge foresaw this contest between the United States and Russia and estimated the chance of the United States higher. Both published their futures studies before H. G. Wells introduced the science of future in his \"Anticipations\" (1901).\n\nFour later anthropologists—Hornell Hart, Raoul Naroll, Louis Morano, and Robert Carneiro—researched the expanding imperial cycles. They reached the same conclusion that a world empire is not only pre-determined but close at hand and attempted to estimate the time of its appearance.\n\nAs foresight has expanded to include a broader range of social concerns all levels and types of education have been addressed, including formal and informal education. Many countries are beginning to implement Foresight in their Education policy. A few programs are listed below:\n\nBy the early 2000s, educators began to independently institute futures studies (sometimes referred to as futures thinking) lessons in K-12 classroom environments. To meet the need, non-profit futures organizations designed curriculum plans to supply educators with materials on the topic. Many of the curriculum plans were developed to meet common core standards. Futures studies education methods for youth typically include age-appropriate collaborative activities, games, systems thinking and scenario building exercises.\n\nWendell Bell and Ed Cornish acknowledge science fiction as a catalyst to future studies, conjuring up visions of tomorrow. Science fiction’s potential to provide an “imaginative social vision” is its contribution to futures studies and public perspective. Productive sci-fi presents plausible, normative scenarios. Jim Dator attributes the foundational concepts of “images of the future” to Wendell Bell, for clarifying Fred Polak’s concept in Images of the Future, as it applies to futures studies. Similar to futures studies’ scenarios thinking, empirically supported visions of the future are a window into what the future could be. Pamela Sargent states, “Science fiction reflects attitudes typical of this century.” She gives a brief history of impactful sci-fi publications, like The Foundation Trilogy, by Isaac Asimov and Starship Troopers, by Robert A. Heinlein. Alternate perspectives validate sci-fi as part of the fuzzy “images of the future.” However, the challenge is the lack of consistent futures research based literature frameworks. Ian Miles reviews The New Encyclopedia of Science Fiction,” identifying ways Science Fiction and Futures Studies “cross-fertilize, as well as the ways in which they differ distinctly.” Science Fiction cannot be simply considered fictionalized Futures Studies. It may have aims other than “prediction, and be no more concerned with shaping the future than any other genre of literature.” It is not to be understood as an explicit pillar of futures studies, due to its inconsistency of integrated futures research. Additionally, Dennis Livingston, a literature and Futures journal critic says, “The depiction of truly alternative societies has not been one of science fiction’s strong points, especially” preferred, normative envisages.\n\nSeveral governments have formalized strategic foresight agencies to encourage long range strategic societal planning, with most notable are the governments of Singapore, Finland, and the United Arab Emirates. Other governments with strategic foresight agencies include Canada's Policy Horizons Canada and the Malaysia's Malaysian Foresight Institute.\n\nThe Singapore government's Centre for Strategic Futures (CSF) is part of the Strategy Group within the Prime Minister's Office. Their mission is to position the Singapore government to navigate emerging strategic challenges and harness potential opportunities. Singapore’s early formal efforts in strategic foresight began in 1991 with the establishment of the Risk Detection and Scenario Planning Office in the Ministry of Defence. In addition to the CSF, the Singapore government has established the Strategic Futures Network, which brings together deputy secretary-level officers and foresight units across the government to discuss emerging trends that may have implications for Singapore.\n\nSince the 1990s, Finland has integrated strategic foresight within the parliament and Prime Minister’s Office. The government is required to present a “Report of the Future” each parliamentary term for review by the parliamentary Committee for the Future. Led by the Prime Minister’s Office, the Government Foresight Group coordinates the government’s foresight efforts. Futures research is supported by the Finnish Society for Futures Studies (established in 1980), the Finland Futures Research Centre (established in 1992), and the Finland Futures Academy (established in 1998) in coordination with foresight units in various government agencies.\n\nIn the United Arab Emirates, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, Vice President and Ruler of Dubai, announced in September 2016 that all government ministries were to appoint Directors of Future Planning. Sheikh Mohammed described the UAE Strategy for the Future as an \"integrated strategy to forecast our nation’s future, aiming to anticipate challenges and seize opportunities\". The Ministry of Cabinet Affairs and Future(MOCAF) is mandated with crafting the UAE Strategy for the Future and is responsible for the portfolio of the future of UAE.\n\nForesight is also applied when studying potential risks to society and how to effectively deal with them. These risks may arise from the development and adoption of emerging technologies and/or social change. Special interest lies on hypothetical future events that have the potential to damage human well-being on a global scale - global catastrophic risks. Such events may cripple or destroy modern civilization or, in the case of existential risks, even cause human extinction. Potential global catastrophic risks include but are not limited to hostile artificial intelligence, nanotechnology weapons, climate change, nuclear warfare, total war, and pandemics.\n\nSeveral authors have become recognized as futurists. They research trends, particularly in technology, and write their observations, conclusions, and predictions. In earlier eras, many futurists were at academic institutions. John McHale, author of \"The Future of the Future\", published a 'Futures Directory', and directed a think tank called \"The Centre For Integrative Studies\" at a university. Futurists have started consulting groups or earn money as speakers, with examples including Alvin Toffler, John Naisbitt and Patrick Dixon. Frank Feather is a business speaker that presents himself as a pragmatic futurist. Some futurists have commonalities with science fiction, and some science-fiction writers, such as Arthur C. Clarke, are known as futurists. In the introduction to \"The Left Hand of Darkness\", Ursula K. Le Guin distinguished futurists from novelists, writing of the study as the business of prophets, clairvoyants, and futurists. In her words, \"a novelist's business is lying\".\n\nA survey of 108 futurists found that they share a variety of assumptions, including in their description of the present as a critical moment in an historical transformation, in their recognition and belief in complexity, and in their being motivated by change and having a desire for an active role bringing change (versus simply being involved in forecasting).\n\nThe Association for Professional Futurists recognizes the Most Significant Futures Works for the purpose of identifying and rewarding the work of foresight professionals and others whose work illuminates aspects of the future.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6152995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6152995", "title": "Guruvayur Keshavan", "text": "Guruvayur Keshavan\n\nGajarajan Guruvayur Keshavan (died 2 December 1976) is perhaps the most famous and celebrated temple elephant in Kerala, India. Keshavan was donated to the Guruvayur Hindu temple by the royal family of Nilambur on 4 January 1922 . It is a common Hindu custom in Kerala to capture elephants either as calves or young adults from the wild and to donate them to the deity of the temple as an offering. Guruvayur temple has in excess of 50 elephants.\n\nStanding over 3.4 meters tall, Keshavan was known for his devout behavior. Keshavan died on 2 December 1976, aged 72, which happened to be Guruvayur Ekadasi, considered a very auspicious day. He fasted for the entire day and dropped down facing the direction of the temple with his trunk raised as a mark of prostration. The anniversary of his death is still celebrated in Guruvauyur. Many elephants line up before the statue and the chief elephant garlands it. Keshavan was conferred the unique title \"Gajarajan\" (Elephant King), by the Guruvayoor Devaswom.\n\nThe Guruvayoor Devaswom erected a life-size statue of Keshavan in its precincts as tribute to the services he rendered to the presiding deity of the temple. Its tusks, along with a majestic portrait of the elephant, can be still seen adorning the entrance to the main temple enclosure. Its life is the subject of the 1977 Malayalam feature film \"Guruvayur Kesavan\", released the year after his death. The film was directed by Bharathan, starring M. G. Soman, Adoor Bhasi, Sankaradi, Bahadoor, Jayabharathi, Vennira Aadai Nirmala (ushakumari), Veeran, Oduvil Unnikrishnan, junior sheela, M S Nambudiri, N Govindankutty, Paravoor Bharathan and Manavalan Joseph zoomed by Ashok Kumar (cinematographer). The story of Guruvayoor Kesavan was later portrayed in a television serial on Surya TV, (2009—2010)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38751684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38751684", "title": "Helmet jellyfish", "text": "Helmet jellyfish\n\nThe helmet jellyfish (\"Periphylla periphylla\") is a luminescent, red-colored jellyfish of the deep sea, belonging to the order Coronatae of the phylum Cnidaria. It is the only species in the monotypic genus \"Periphylla.\"\n\n\"P. periphylla\" represents an exception, very rarely found in the phylum \"Cnidaria\": the medusae do not go through a polyp stage, thus presenting a \"holopelagic\" life cycle. The medusae strew fertilized eggs in open water and these develop directly into medusae, whose development rests entirely upon the egg's high yolk supply. The ephyra stage common among other jellyfish is not observed in \"P. periphylla\".\n\nThe jellyfish is found in depths up to 7,000 m and is adapted to its dark environment. A weight of up to a ton per square centimeter presses upon the animals, which live in deep sea.\n\nAt night the helmet jellyfish leaves the depths and swims up toward its food, plankton. With full stomach it turns from the surface back to the depths. Other deep-sea inhabitants feed upon its faeces.\n\nHelmet jellyfish reach a body size of up to 30 cm. They consist 90% of water, the rest being tissue and gelatinous mass, which give the animals their form. They light themselves from within by means of bioluminescence, the red flashes serving as a signal amongst themselves. Between their marginal lobes sit small sense bulbs, by which the helmet jelly can distinguish between light and dark; they have been observed to avoid light.\n\nThe helmet jelly is found in every ocean of the world, as well as in the Norwegian fjords and in the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nIn many fjords of Norway the helmet jelly has proliferated since the 1970s. It has become a competitor of fish for food and is thereby also a threat for the fishing industry. These jellyfish should have been deprived of their own food basis by displacement of almost all other sea creatures, yet the medusae swarms still live.\n\nThe cause is being studied at this time by marine biologist Ulf Båmstedt. Also not far from Bergen, in the Lurefjord, helmet jellies have proliferated. The objective is to find a possible explanation for the new mass development. The ecology and population dynamics will be investigated by Norwegian and American work groups. The ontogeny, in particular the development of pigmentation, luminescence, food absorption and sense capacity, will be researched in a Hamburg work group.\n"}
{"id": "23360425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23360425", "title": "Human Lunar Return study", "text": "Human Lunar Return study\n\nNASA began its \"Human Lunar Return study\" in September 1995 to identify ways it could conduct future human spaceflight missions to the Moon. The final Human Lunar Return (HLR) briefing took place on August 7, 1996. The study was seen as laying \"the foundation for human space activity over the next three decades.\"\n\nThe study called for a mission lasting 16 days, 10 of which would be spent on the lunar surface. The study baselined a lightweight architecture including an open-cockpit lunar lander weighing including fuel. The lunar habitat was designed to have an inflatable hull and was scheduled to be delivered in advance of the crew. To protect against cosmic rays and a possible solar particle event, the hull of the lunar habitat to be at minimum thick and filled with either water or polyethylene. Components and crew for the mission would have been transported to the International Space Station (ISS) by two Space Shuttle flights. The HLR schedule called for the first mission to depart from the ISS in August 2001. One of the primary goals of the mission was to bring of payload from the lunar surface back to earth to be studied.\n\nThe projected cost of the mission over the five year development timeline ranged between $2.5 and $4 billion. The mission required two shuttle and three Proton launches to land two astronauts and a small habitat structure at Aristarchus crater.\n\n"}
{"id": "26096048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26096048", "title": "Infestation", "text": "Infestation\n\nInfestation is the state of being invaded or overrun by pests or parasites. It can also refer to the actual organisms living on or within a host.\n\nIn general, the term \"infestation\" refers to parasitic diseases caused by animals such as arthropods (i.e. mites, ticks, and lice) and worms, but excluding conditions caused by protozoa, fungi, bacteria, and viruses, which are called infections.\n\nInfestations can be classified as either external or internal with regards to the parasites' location in relation to the host.\n\nExternal or ectoparasitic infestation is a condition in which organisms live primarily on the surface of the host (though porocephaliasis can penetrate viscerally) and includes those involving mites, ticks, head lice and bed bugs.\n\nAn internal (or endoparasitic) infestation is a condition in which organisms live within the host and includes those involving worms (though swimmer's itch stays near the surface).\n\nMedically, the term \"infestation\" is often reserved only for external ectoparasitic infestations while the term \"infection\" refers to internal endoparasitic conditions.\n"}
{"id": "27351197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27351197", "title": "Inversion (evolutionary biology)", "text": "Inversion (evolutionary biology)\n\nIn evolutionary developmental biology, inversion refers to the hypothesis that during the course of animal evolution, the structures along the dorsoventral (DV) axis have taken on an orientation opposite that of the ancestral form.\n\nInversion was first noted in 1822 by the French zoologist Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, when he dissected a crayfish (an arthropod) and compared it with the vertebrate body plan. The idea was heavily criticised, but periodically resurfaced, and is now supported by some molecular embryologists.\n\nAs early as 1822, the French zoologist Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire noted that the organization of dorsal and ventral structures in arthropods is opposite that of mammals. Five decades later, in light of Darwin's theory of \"descent with modification\", German zoologist Anton Dohrn proposed that these groups arose from a common ancestor which possessed a body plan similar to that of modern annelids with a ventral nerve cord and dorsal heart. Whereas this arrangement is retained in arthropods and other protostomes, in chordate deuterostomes, the nerve cord is located dorsally and the heart ventrally. The inversion hypothesis was met with scornful criticism each time it was proposed, and has periodically resurfaced and been rejected. However, some modern molecular embryologists suggest that recent findings support the idea of inversion.\n\nIn addition to the simple observation that the dorsoventral axes of protostomes and chordates appear to be inverted with respect to each other, molecular biology provides some support for the inversion hypothesis. The most notable piece of evidence comes from analysis of the genes involved in establishing the DV axis in these two groups. In the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\", as well as in other protostomes, the β-type transforming growth factor (TGF-β) family member \"decapentaplegic\" (\"dpp\") is expressed dorsally and is thought to suppress neural fate. On the ventral side of the embryo, a \"dpp\" inhibitor, \"short gastrulation\" (\"sog\"), is expressed, thus allowing nervous tissue to form ventrally. In chordates, the \"dpp\" homolog BMP-4 is expressed in the prospective ventral (non-neural) part of the embryo while several \"sog\"-like BMP inhibitors (Chordin, Noggin, Follistatin) are expressed dorsally.\n\nOther patterning genes also show conserved domains of expression. The neural patterning genes \"vnd\", \"ind\", \"msh\", and \"netrin\" are expressed in the \"Drosophila\" ventral nerve cells and midline mesectoderm. The chordate homologs of these genes, NK2, Gsh1/2, Msx1/3, and Netrin, are expressed in the dorsal neural tube. Furthermore, the tinman/Nkx2-5 gene is expressed very early in cells that will become the heart in both \"Drosophila\" (dorsally) and chordates (ventrally).\n\nAdditional support comes from work on the development of the polychaete annelid \"Platynereis dumerilii\", another protostome. Even more so than \"Drosophila\", its pattern of central-nervous-system development is strikingly similar to that of vertebrates, but inverted. There is also evidence from left-right asymmetry. Vertebrates have a highly conserved Nodal signaling pathway that acts on the left side of the body, determining left-right asymmetries of internal organs. Sea urchins have the same signaling pathway, but it acts on the right side of the body. It was even shown that an opposing right-sided signal for regulating left-right asymmetry in vertebrates, i.e. BMP signaling pathway, is activated on the left side of the sea urchin larva, suggesting an axial inversion during evolution from basal deuterostome to chordate such like amphioxus. Because in amphioxus, Nodal signaling pathway is on the left side of the embryo, which is the same situation as vertebrates. Sea urchins, like other echinoderms, have radially-symmetric adults, but bilaterally-symmetric larvae. Since sea urchins are deuterostomes, this suggests that the ancestral deuterostome shared its orientation with protostomes, and that dorsoventral inversion originated in some ancestral chordate.\n\nThere is evidence that invertebrate chordates are also inverted. Ascidian larvae have a dorsal mouth, as one would expect from inversion. The amphioxus has an odd feature: its mouth appears on the left side and migrates to the ventral side. Biologist Thurston Lacalli speculates that this may be a recapitulation of the migration of the mouth from the dorsal to the ventral side in a protochordate.\n\nSome biologists have proposed that the Hemichordates (specifically the Enteropneusta) may represent an intermediate body plan in the evolution of the \"inverted\" state of the chordates. Though they are considered deuterostomes, the dorsoventral axis of hemichordates retains features of both protostomes and chordates. For example, enteropneusts have an ectodermally-derived dorsal nerve cord in the collar region which has been proposed to be homologous to the chordate neural tube. However, they also have a ventral nerve cord and a dorsal contractile vessel similar to protostomes. Furthermore, the relative positions other \"intermediate\" structures in hemichordates, such as the hepatic organs and ventral pygochord, which has been proposed to be homologous to the chordate-defining notochord, are retained but inverted. Nübler-Jung and Arendt argue that the principal innovation in the chordate lineage was the obliteration of the mouth on the neural side (as in hemichordates, arthropods, and annelids) and the development of a new mouth on the non-neural ventral side.\n\nWhile the idea of dorsoventral axis inversion appears to be supported by morphological and molecular data, others have proposed alternative plausible hypotheses (reviewed in Gerhart 2000). One assumption of the inversion hypothesis is that the common ancestor of protostomes and chordates already possessed an organized central nervous system located at one pole of the dorsoventral axis. Alternatively, this ancestor may have possessed only a diffuse nerve net or several bundles of nervous tissue with no distinct dorsoventral localization. This would mean that the apparent inversion was simply a result of concentration of the central nervous system at opposite poles independently in the lineages leading to protostomes and chordates. Lacalli (1996) suggested a scenario in which the ancestor had a single opening to the digestive system, and that the neural and non-neural mouths arose independently in protostomes and chordates, respectively. By this hypothesis, there is no need for inversion.\n\nMartindale and Henry propose a ctenophore-like ancestor with a concentrated nerve cord and two anal pores on opposite sides of the animal in addition to a terminal gut opening. If one of these pores became the mouth in protostomes and the other became the mouth in deuterostomes, this would also preclude inversion. Another alternative, proposed by von Salvini-Plawen, states that the ancestor had a two-part nervous system - one part concentrated, the other diffuse. The nervous systems of protostome and deuterostome descendants of this ancestor may have arisen independently from these two distinct parts.\n\nAxial twist theories propose that not the whole body, but only the anterior region of the head is inverted. \nThese theories by Kinsbourne and de Lussanet & Osse also explain the presence of an optic chiasm in vertebrates and the contralateral organization of the forebrain. One of these theories is supported by developmental evidence and even explains the asymmetric organization of the heart and bowels.\n\n"}
{"id": "15814736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15814736", "title": "JaJuan Dawson", "text": "JaJuan Dawson\n\nJaJuan Latroy Dawson (November 5, 1977 – July 12, 2015) was a wide receiver in the NFL from 2000 to 2002. He played for the Cleveland Browns and Houston Texans. He was drafted by the Browns in the 3rd Round of the 2000 NFL Draft with the 79th overall pick.\n\nHe was a 1995 graduate of H.L. Bourgeois High School in Gray, Louisiana. He played collegiately at Tulane University, alongside future NFL quarterbacks Shaun King and Patrick Ramsey. He also played in an offensive system under then OC Rich Rodriguez in 1997 and 1998.\n\nDawson was reported to have fallen overboard while on a boating trip with family on July 12, 2015. Reports surfaced that he drowned in Lavon Lake, Texas, and his body was recovered on July 14. Dawson was not wearing a lifejacket.\n\n\nIn 2001, he had 22 catches for 281 yards and 1 touchdown while playing for the Cleveland Browns. He joined the Houston Texans in 2002 and had 21 catches for 286 yards.\n"}
{"id": "18693961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18693961", "title": "José Francisco de Peralta", "text": "José Francisco de Peralta\n\nIn 1822, Costa Rica elected Peralta to represent it in the First Constituent Congress of the Mexican Empire, but he did not attend the Congress, because he did not receive instruction from the municipal council of Cost Rican until September, too late to arrive before Iturbide abolished the Congress in October. In 1825, he was elected Deputy for Costa Rica to the Congress of the Federal Republic of Central America, a post which he held until 1826, during which he participated in the legislation of several important laws, including the annexation of the Partido de Nicoya to Costa Rica.\n\nFrom 1827 to 1828 Peralta was a Deputy for Ujarrás in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Costa Rica, and in November, 1829, he was elected to represent Costa Rica in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Central America. From 1832 to 1833 he was the Deputy for Santa Cruz, Costa Rica in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Costa Rica. Peralta served as President of the Assembly from September 1832 to February 1833 and from July 1833 to September 1833.\n\nIn 1835, Peralta participated in the Costa Rican civil war, the \"Guerra de la Liga\" () against Head of State Braulio Carrillo Colina. For this reason, his property was seized by the state and he had to flee in exile.\n\nPeralta had been an enthusiastic admirer of General Francisco Morazán Quesada, who he honored during the general's stay in Cartago, Costa Rica in 1834. Peralta was one of the most prominent supporters of the government of General Francisco Morazán, who rose to power on 12 April 1842. As a result, Peralta was elected Deputy for Cartago to the Constituent Assembly convened by Morazán, which began on 10 July 1842 in San José, Costa Rica. Peralta was named President of the Assembly. Among the legislative projects that he pushed were the creation of the college San Luis Gozaga in Cartago, which would not actually open until 1869.\n\nPeralta died in Cartago on 16 September 1844, after an accident riding a horse. He left an important bequest for the foundation of a school for the children of Cartago, an institution which retains his name today. In the city a bust in honor of Peralta was unveiled in 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "923502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923502", "title": "List of International Space Station spacewalks", "text": "List of International Space Station spacewalks\n\nInternational Space Station spacewalks are major events in the building and maintaining of the orbital laboratory. Spacewalks are performed to install new components to the International Space Station (ISS), to re-wire systems, modules, and equipment, and to monitor, install, and retrieve scientific experiments.\n\nDue to the complexity of building a station in space, space agencies train astronauts extensively, preparing them to encounter surprises during spacewalks, teaching them how to assemble special tools and equipment, and carefully coordinating every activity during spacewalks. From 1998 to 2005, thirty-seven space shuttle missions were scheduled to assemble, outfit and begin experiments and research aboard the station.\n\nThe initial spacewalk to begin the assembly of the International Space Station was held on December 7, 1998, following the launch of the first section of the station, \"Zarya\", from Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan, on November 20, 1998. The spacewalk attached the U.S.-built \"Unity\" node to \"Zarya\". The longest spacewalk was performed on March 11, 2001, when STS-102 crew members Susan J. Helms and James S. Voss conducted a full spacewalk, and then returned to the airlock, but remained in their suits ready to exit the airlock again in case the robotics operations ran into problems. The total time for that spacewalk was eight hours and fifty-six minutes.\n\nAs of August 16, 2018, there have been 212 spacewalks devoted to assembly and maintenance of the International Space Station totaling 1327 hours and 17 minutes. As of May 12, 2017, there have been 200 spacewalks totaling 1247 hours and 55 minutes. As of March 2, 2011, a total time of 973 hours and fifty-three minutes has been spent in extra-vehicular activity (EVA), with 127 of these EVAs performed from station airlocks, totaling 787 hours and twenty-eight minutes in spacewalk time from the station itself. Twenty-eight spacewalks have been performed from a shuttle, ninety-three from the Quest Joint Airlock, thirty-two from the \"Pirs\" docking compartment, and two from the transfer compartment at the forward end of the \"Zvezda\" Service Module.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki><br>\n<nowiki>^</nowiki><br>\n†<br>\n‡<br>\n<br>\n Scott D. Tingle\n15:34\n23:47\n12:00\n17:57\n13:33\n19:43\n11:39\n18:10\n12:06\n18:55\n\nThe astronauts also swapped out a camera assembly on the starboard truss of the station used to film NASA TV and closed an aperture door on the CATS experiment outside the Japanese Kibo module in preparation for disposal on SpaceX CRS 15 and replacement by its successor, ECOSTRESS. Get aheads involved relocating an adjustable grapple bar to the S1 Truss and securing the Flex Hose Rotary Coupler in preparation for replacement on the next spacewalk. During the spacewalk Feustel beat Jerry Ross, his STS 125 crewmate Dr. John Grunsfeld, Fyoder Yurchikhin, and Peggy Whitson to become third on the list of all time space walkers. <ref>\n"}
{"id": "21970547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21970547", "title": "Léon Aelter", "text": "Léon Aelter\n\nLéon Aelter (born 6 January 1890) was a male sprinter from Belgium.\n\nAelter competed for his home nation at the 1912 Summer Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden. He finished third in his heat in the 200 metres, failing to qualify for the following round. He finished second in his heat in the 100 metres qualifying, qualifying for the semi final, which he was unable to finish.\n\n"}
{"id": "2671056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2671056", "title": "Metastability in the brain", "text": "Metastability in the brain\n\nIn the field of computational neuroscience, the theory of metastability refers to the human brain’s ability to integrate several functional parts and to produce neural oscillations in a cooperative and coordinated manner, providing the basis for conscious activity.\n\nMetastability, a state in which signals (such as oscillatory waves) fall outside their natural equilibrium state but persist for an extended period of time, is a principle that describes the brain’s ability to make sense out of seemingly random environmental cues. In the past 25 years, interest in metastability and the underlying framework of nonlinear dynamics has been fueled by advancements in the methods by which computers model brain activity.\n\nEEG measures the gross electrical activity of the brain that can be observed on the surface of the skull. In the metastability theory, EEG outputs produce oscillations that can be described as having identifiable patterns that correlate with each other at certain frequencies. Each neuron in a neuronal network normally outputs a dynamical oscillatory waveform, but also has the ability to output a chaotic waveform. When neurons are integrated into the neural network by interfacing neurons with each other, the dynamical oscillations created by each neuron can be combined to form highly predictable EEG oscillations.\n\nBy identifying these correlations and the individual neurons that contribute to predictable EEG oscillations, scientists can determine which cortical domains are processing in parallel and which neuronal networks are intertwined. In many cases, metastability describes instances in which distal parts of the brain interact with each other to respond to environmental stimuli.\n\nIt has been suggested that one integral facet of brain dynamics underlying conscious thought is the brain’s ability to convert seemingly noisy or chaotic signals into predictable oscillatory patterns.\n\nIn EEG oscillations of neural networks, neighboring waveform frequencies are correlated on a logarithmic scale rather than a linear scale. As a result, mean frequencies in oscillatory bands cannot link together according to linearity of their mean frequencies. Instead, phase transitions are linked according to their ability to couple with adjacent phase shifts in a constant state of transition between unstable and stable phase synchronization. This phase synchronization forms the basis of metastable behavior in neural networks.\n\nMetastable behavior occurs at the high frequency domain known as 1/f regime. This regime describes an environment in which a noisy signal (also known as pink noise) has been induced, where the amount of power the signal outputs over a certain bandwidth (its power spectral density) is inversely proportional to its frequency.\n\nNoise at the \"1/f\" regime can be found in many biological systems – for instance, in the output of a heartbeat in an ECG waveform—but serves a unique purpose for phase synchrony in neuronal networks. At the \"1/f\" regime, the brain is in the critical state necessary for a conscious response to weak or chaotic environmental signals because it can shift the random signals into identifiable and predictable oscillatory waveforms. While often transient, these waveforms exist in a stable form long enough to contribute to what can be thought of as conscious response to environmental stimuli.\n\nThe dynamical system model, which represents networks composed of integrated neural systems communicating with one another between unstable and stable phases, has become an increasingly popular theory underpinning the understanding of metastability. Coordination dynamics forms the basis for this dynamical system model by describing mathematical formulae and paradigms governing the coupling of environmental stimuli to their effectors.\n\nThe so-named HKB model is one of the earliest and well-respected theories to describe coordination dynamics in the brain. In this model, the formation of neural networks can be partly described as self-organization, where individual neurons and small neuronal systems aggregate and coordinate to either adapt or respond to local stimuli or to divide labor and specialize in function.\n\nIn the last 20 years, the HKB model has become a widely accepted theory to explain the coordinated movements and behaviors of individual neurons into large, end-to-end neural networks. Originally the model described a system in which spontaneous transitions observed in finger movements could be described as a series of in-phase and out-of-phase movements.\n\nIn the mid-1980s HKB model experiments, subjects were asked to wave one finger on each hand in two modes of direction: first, known as out of phase, both fingers moving in the same direction back and forth (as windshield wipers might move); and second, known as in-phase, where both fingers come together and move away to and from the midline of the body. To illustrate coordination dynamics, the subjects were asked to move their fingers out of phase with increasing speed until their fingers were moving as fast as possible. As movement approached its critical speed, the subjects’ fingers were found to move from out-of-phase (windshield-wiper-like) movement to in-phase (toward midline movement).\n\nThe HKB model, which has also been elucidated by several complex mathematical descriptors, is still a relatively simple but powerful way to describe seemingly-independent systems that come to reach synchrony just before a state of self-organized criticality.\n\nIn the last 10 years, the HKB model has been reconciled with advanced mathematical models and supercomputer-based computation to link rudimentary coordination dynamics to higher-order processes such as learning and memory.\n\nThe traditional EEG is still useful to investigate coordination between different parts of the brain. 40 Hz gamma wave activity is a prominent example of the brain’s ability to be modeled dynamically and is a common example of coordination dynamics. Continuous study of these and other oscillations has led to an important conclusion: analyzing waves as having a common signal phase but a different amplitude leads to the possibility that these different signals serve a synergistic function.\n\nSome unusual characteristics of these waves: they are virtually simultaneous and have a very short onset latency, which implies that they operate faster than synaptic conduction would allow; and that their recognizable patterns are sometimes interrupted by periods of randomness. The latter idiosyncrasy has served as the basis for assuming an interaction and transition between neural subsystems. Analysis of activation and deactivation of regions of the cortex has shown a dynamic shift between dependence and interdependence, reflecting the brain's \"metastable\" nature as a function of a coordinated dynamical system.\n\nfMRI, large-scale electrode arrays, and MEG expand upon the patterns seen in EEG by providing visual confirmation of coordinated dynamics. The MEG, which provides an improvement over EEG in spatiotemporal characterization, allows researchers to stimulate certain parts of the brain with environmental cues and observe the response in a holistic brain model. Additionally, MEG has a response time of about one millisecond, allowing for a virtually real-time investigation of the active turning-on and -off of selected parts of the brain in response to environmental cues and conscious tasks.\n\nA developing field in coordination dynamics involves the theory of social coordination, which attempts to relate the DC to normal human development of complex social cues following certain patterns of interaction. This work is aimed at understanding how human social interaction is mediated by metastability of neural networks. fMRI and EEG are particularly useful in mapping thalamocortical response to social cues in experimental studies.\n\nA new theory called the phi complex has been developed by J. A. Scott Kelso and fellow researchers at Florida Atlantic University to provide experimental results for the theory of social coordination dynamics. In Kelso's experiments, two subjects were separated by an opaque barrier and asked to wag their fingers; then the barrier was removed and the subjects were instructed to continue to wag their fingers as if no change had occurred. After a short period, the movements of the two subjects sometimes became coordinated and synchronized (but other times continued to be asynchronous). The link between EEG and conscious social interaction is described as Phi, one of several brain rhythms operating in the 10 Hz range. Phi consists of two components: one to favor solitary behavior and another to favor interactive (interpersonal) behavior. Further analysis of Phi may reveal the social and interpersonal implications of degenerative diseases such as schizophrenia—or may provide insight into common social relationships such as the dynamics of alpha and omega-males or the popular bystander effect describing how people diffuse personal responsibility in emergency situations depending on the number of other individuals present.\n\nA second theory of metastability involves a so-called dynamic core, which is a term to loosely describe the thalamocortical region believed to be the integration center of consciousness. The dynamic core hypothesis (DCH) reflects the use and disuse of interconnected neuronal networks during stimulation of this region. A computer model of 65,000 spiking neurons shows that neuronal groups existing in the cortex and thalamus interact in the form of synchronous oscillation. The interaction between distinct neuronal groups forms the dynamic core and may help explain the nature of conscious experience. A critical feature of the DCH is that instead of thinking binarily about transitions between neural integration and non-integration (i.e., that the two are either one or the other with no in-between), the metastable nature of the dynamic core can allow for a continuum of integration.\n\nOne theory used to integrate the dynamic core with conscious thought involves a developing concept known as neural Darwinism. In this model, metastable interactions in the thalamocortical region cause a process of selectionism through re-entry (a phenomenon describing the overall reciprocity and interactivity between signals in distant parts of the brain through coupled signal latency). Neuronal selectivity involves mechanochemical events that take place pre- and post-natally whereby neuronal connections are influenced by environmental experiences. The modification of synaptic signals as it relates to the dynamic core provides further explanation for the DCH.\n\nDespite growing evidence for the DCH, the ability to generate mathematical constructs to model and predict dynamic core behavior has been slow to progress. Continued development of stochastic processes designed to graph neuronal signals as chaotic and non-linear has provided some algorithmic basis for analyzing how chaotic environmental signals are coupled to enhance selectivity of neural outgrowth or coordination in the dynamic core.\n\nThe global workspace hypothesis is another theory to elucidate metastability, and has existed in some form since 1983. This hypothesis also focuses on the phenomenon of re-entry, the ability of a routine or process to be used by multiple parts of the brain simultaneously. Both the DCH and global neuronal workspace (GNW) models involve re-entrance, but the GNW model elaborates on re-entrant connectivity between distant parts of the brain and long-range signal flow. Workspace neurons are similar anatomically but separated spatially from each other.\n\nOne interesting aspect of the GNW is that with sufficient intensity and length over which a signal travels, a small initiation signal can be compounded to activate an \"ignition\" of a critical spike-inducing state. This idea is analogous to a skier on the slope of a mountain, who, by disrupting a few blocks of ice with his skis, initiates a giant avalanche in his wake. To help prove the circuit-like amplification theory, research has shown that inducing lesions in long-distance connections corrupts performance in integrative models.\n\nA popular experiment to demonstrate the global workspace hypothesis involves showing a subject a series of backward-masked visual words (e.g., \"the dog sleeps quietly\" is shown as \"ylteiuq speels god eht\") and then asking the subject to identify the forward \"translation\" of these words. Not only did fMRI detect activity in the word-recognition portion of the cortex, but additionally, activity is often detected in the parietal and prefrontal cortices. In almost every experiment, conscious input in word and audition tasks shows a much wider use of integrated portions of the brain than in identical unconscious input. The wide distribution and constant signal transfer between different areas of the brain in experimental results is a common method to attempt to prove the neural workspace hypothesis. More studies are being conducted to determine precisely the correlation between conscious and unconscious task deliberation in the realm of the global workspace.\n\nAlthough the concept of metastability has been around in Neuroscience for some time, the specific interpretation of metastability in the context of brain operations of different complexity has been developed by Andrew and Alexander Fingelkurts within their model of Operational Architectonics of brain–mind functioning. Metastability is basically a theory of how global integrative and local segregative tendencies coexist in the brain. The Operational Architectonics is centered on the fact that in the metastable regime of brain functioning, the individual parts of the brain exhibit tendencies to function autonomously at the same time as they exhibit tendencies for coordinated activity. In accordance with Operational Architectonics, the synchronized operations produced by distributed neuronal assemblies constitute the metastable spatial-temporal patterns. They are metastable because intrinsic differences in the activity between neuronal assemblies are sufficiently large that they each do their own job (operation), while still retaining a tendency to be coordinated together in order to realize the complex brain operation.\n\nIn addition to study investigating the effects of metastable interactions on traditional social function, much research will likely focus on determining the role of the coordinated dynamic system and the global workspace in the progression of debilitating diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, stroke, and schizophrenia. Undoubtedly, spatiotemporal imaging techniques such as MEG and fMRI will elaborate on results already gleaned from analysis of EEG output.\n\nAn interest in the effect of a traumatic or semi-traumatic brain injury (TBI) on the coordinated dynamical system has developed in the last five years as the number of TBI cases has risen from war-related injuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "47645891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47645891", "title": "Michael Huggins", "text": "Michael Huggins\n\nMichael Huggins (born 1957) is the American founder and Executive Director of Transformation Yoga Project, a non-profit organization teaching yoga and mindfulness as a tool for personal change in the lives of people within drug and alcohol rehabilitation facilities, the criminal justice system, community transitional centers and VA hospitals.\n\nHuggins began practicing yoga in 2002 to counteract chronic back pain. In 2010 he became a registered yoga teacher with a 200-Hour Level certification from Power Yoga Works recognized by Yoga Alliance. Later that year he trained with Street Yoga to teach yoga and mindfulness to at-risk youth and vulnerable populations. He has since trained at the Kripalu Yoga Center, Omega Institute for Holistic Studies, the Prison Yoga Project, Power Yoga Works, and other organizations to gain additional skills as a teacher, including for incarcerated populations and veterans.\n\nHuggins studied Accounting at Villanova University and received an MBA from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He has worked as a Senior Auditor at Arthur Andersen and Co., Manager of Treasury Operations for Kenner Parker Toys, Vice President of Administration for Town & County Corp., CFO/COO for Spectra Science, President and COO for Synthes, Inc., CEO for Scient’x, and most recently as a Consultant for MDH Advisors.\n\nIn July 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice charged Synthes and a subsidiary with various offenses relating to a bone cement regulated by the federal government as a medical device. The government also charged four company executives, including Michael Huggins, with a strict liability misdemeanor offense. After pleading guilty to the strict liability misdemeanor charge, Huggins was sentenced in November 2011 to a nine-month prison term, a $100,000 fine, and three months of supervised release following his release from custody.\n\nIn 2010, Huggins began working with community organizations to provide yoga to at-risk youth, and as after-school programming for young people. During his first weeks in prison Huggins began teaching yoga and guided meditation to his fellow inmates. The popularity of his teaching spurred him to train fellow inmates as teachers also. After his release from prison, Huggins attended a Prison Yoga Project training course and soon after began returning to prisons as a volunteer yoga instructor. Huggins found that yoga could be a therapy and build emotional tools against the traumas of living in prison as well as the traumas that came before incarceration, such as homelessness, drug abuse, and domestic violence. In 2013, Huggins founded Transformation Yoga Project as a non-profit organization with a mission to train and provide teachers with yoga and mindfulness techniques that specifically support people with traumatic or addictive backgrounds in an effort to heal, build emotional stability, and reduce the stresses of imprisoned, rehabilitative, post-traumatic, or transitional living circumstances. Transformation Yoga Project encourages the yoga teachers it trains to embrace seva, the religious concept of serving selflessly. The goals of Transformation Yoga Project include curbing recidivism rates by enabling inmates to heal, develop greater maturity, and create positive growth for themselves. Many within prison administrations embrace yoga and mindfulness programs because of the benefits to the inmate populations during and after incarceration.\n\nTransformation Yoga Project runs programs in numerous facilities including at the State Correctional Institute at Graterford, the Philadelphia Prison System’s Cambria Community Center, the Montgomery County Youth Detention Center, the Montgomery County Youth Shelter, the Delaware County Juvenile Detention Center, the Federal Detention Center in Philadelphia, the Kirkbride Center for recovery, Gaudenzia house, the Divine Light Recovery House, the ODDAT Synergy House, and at the Veterans Hospital in Coatesville, Pennsylvania.\n\nHuggins works with several non-profit organizations in a variety of capacities, including sharing yoga with at-risk and traumatized populations throughout the country. He has partnered with Prison Yoga Project to train yoga teachers. He sits on the Board of Directors of Liberation Prison Yoga, a non-profit organization founded by Anneke Lucas, to prepare yoga teachers with trauma-conscious methods for incarcerated people. He has also volunteered with the United Way of Chester County and Open Hearth where he taught career development workshops for the underprivileged.\n"}
{"id": "1108774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108774", "title": "Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma", "text": "Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma\n\nMitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation is a Japanese pharmaceuticals company, a subsidiary of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation. was formed in 2001 from the merger of Mitsubishi-Tokyo Pharmaceuticals and Welfide Corporation. On October 1, 2007 Tanabe Seiyaku Co., Ltd. merged with Mitsubishi Pharma to form Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma. \n\nMitsubishi Tanaba Pharma is a member of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFJ) keiretsu.\n\nTakeda Kasei Co., Ltd. was established in 1940 by Chobei Takeda & Co., Ltd. (present-day Takeda Pharmaceutical Company) and Nippon Kasei Chemical Co. Ltd. (present-day Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation) and built its first plant in Higashi-Yoshitomi-mura, Fukuoka Prefecture. The company changed its name in 1952 to Yoshitomi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. in 1946 and listed on Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges in 1949.\n\nThe Blood Plasma Corporation of Japan was established in 1950 with head office and plant in Osaka. This company changed its name to Green Cross Corporation in 1964.\n\nGreen Cross Corporation was acquired by Yoshitomi Pharmaceutical in 1998, changing its name to Welfide Corporation in 2000.\nThe founders of Green Cross Corporation included war criminals such as Kitano Masaji who performed torture and experimentations on humans in the Japanese military's notorious Unit 731 during World War II. These crimes were recognized by the UN as extreme \"crimes against humanity\".\n\nIn 1901 Motosaburo Tanabe established a pharmacy in Tokyo, which was incorporated in 1921 as Motosaburo Tanabe Shoten, changing its name in 1943 to Tokyo Tanabe Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd.\n\nNippon Tar Industries was established in 1921, becoming Mitsubishi Chemical Industries, Ltd. in 1952. This company established a business alliance with Tokyo Tanabe Pharmaceuticals Co. in 1981, and changed its name to Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation following the 1984 merger with Mitsubishi Petrochemical Co., Ltd.\n\nMitsubishi-Tanabe Pharmaceuticals developed the first BET inhibitor molecules.\n\nMitsubishi Chemical Corporation and Tokyo Tanabe Pharmaceuticals Co. merged formally in 1999 and formed Mitsubishi-Tokyo Pharmaceuticals, Inc., to take over the combined pharmaceutical operations of the two companies.\n\nMitsubishi-Tokyo Pharmaceuticals and Welfide Corporation merged in 2001 to establish Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation, and this company joined again with Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation to create Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation in October 2005.\n\nIn August 2014 the company announced it had agreed to collaborate with AstraZeneca to leverage the pair's strengths, expertise and assets on diabetic nephropathy, in a bid to develop high quality drugs much quicker than working alone. According to the National Institute of Health, 60% to 70% of diabetic sufferers in the U.S. alone suffered from nerve disorders related to diabetic nephropathy. The three-year research agreement has the objective of creating new treatments to replace expensive and limited options currently in place, mainly being dialysis or kidney transplantation.\n\nIn July, 2017, the company acquired Neuroderm for $1.1 billion.\n"}
{"id": "29083159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29083159", "title": "Myocardial infarction complications", "text": "Myocardial infarction complications\n\nMyocardial infarction complications may occur immediately following a heart attack (in the acute phase), or may need time to develop (a chronic problem). After an infarction, an obvious complication is a second infarction, which may occur in the domain of another atherosclerotic coronary artery, or in the same zone if there are any live cells left in the infarct.\n\nPost-myocardial complications occur after a period of ischemia, these changes can be seen in gross tissue changes and microscopic changes. Necrosis begins after 20 minutes of an infarction. Under 4 hours of ischemia, there are no gross or microscopic changes noted. \nFrom 4-24 hours you begin to see coagulative necrosis, which is characterized by the removal of dead cardiomyocytes through heterolysis and the nucleus through karyorrhexis, karyolysis, and pyknosis. On gross examination, coagulative necrosis shows darkened discoloration of the infarcted tissue. The most common complication during this period is arrhythmias.\nDay 1-7 is marked by the inflammatory phase. Days 1-3 are marked by “acute inflammation”, in which neutrophils infiltrate the ischemic tissue. A major complication during this period is fibrinous pericarditis, particularly in transmural ventricular wall damage (an infarct that impacted all 3 layers of the heart, the epicardium, myocardium, and endocardium). This leads to inflammation, such as swelling, leading to rubbing of the heart on the pericardium. Day 4 through 7 are marked by “chronic inflammation”, on histology macrophages will be seen infiltrating the tissue. The role of these macrophages is the removal of necrotic myocytes. However, these cells are directly involved in the weakening of the tissue, leading to complications such as a ventricular free wall rupture, intraventricular septum rupture, or a papillary muscle rupture. At a gross anatomical level, this staged is marked by a yellow pallor. \nWeeks 1-3 are marked on histology by abundant capillaries, and fibroblast infiltration. Fibroblasts start replacing the lost cardiomyocytes with collagen type 1 and leads to the granulation of tissue. \nAfter several weeks fibrosis occurs and heavy collagen formation. Collagen is not as strong or compliant as the myocardium that it replaced, this instability could lead to a ventricular aneurysm, and the stasis of blood in an aneurysm can lead to a mural thrombus. A rarer complication that also occurs during this time is Dressler’s syndrome and is thought to have autoimmune origins.\n\nA myocardial infarction may compromise the function of the heart as a pump for the circulation, a state called heart failure. There are different types of heart failure; left- or right-sided (or bilateral) heart failure may occur depending on the affected part of the heart, and it is a low-output type of failure. If one of the heart valves is affected, this may cause dysfunction, such as mitral regurgitation in the case of left-sided coronary occlusion that disrupts the blood supply of the papillary muscles. The incidence of heart failure is particularly high in patients with diabetes and requires special management strategies.\n\nMyocardial rupture is most common three to five days after myocardial infarction, commonly of small degree, but may occur one day to three weeks later. In the modern era of early revascularization and intensive pharmacotherapy as treatment for MI, the incidence of myocardial rupture is about 1% of all MIs. This may occur in the free walls of the ventricles, the septum between them, the papillary muscles, or less commonly the atria. Rupture occurs because of increased pressure against the weakened walls of the heart chambers due to heart muscle that cannot pump blood out effectively. The weakness may also lead to ventricular aneurysm, a localized dilation or ballooning of the heart chamber.\n\nRisk factors for myocardial rupture include completion of infarction (no revascularization performed), female sex, advanced age, and a lack of a previous history of myocardial infarction. In addition, the risk of rupture is higher in individuals who are revascularized with a thrombolytic agent than with PCI. The shear stress between the infarcted segment and the surrounding normal myocardium (which may be hypercontractile in the post-infarction period) makes it a nidus for rupture.\n\nRupture is usually a catastrophic event that may result a life-threatening process known as cardiac tamponade, in which blood accumulates within the pericardium or heart sac, and compresses the heart to the point where it cannot pump effectively. Rupture of the intraventricular septum (the muscle separating the left and right ventricles) causes a ventricular septal defect with shunting of blood through the defect from the left side of the heart to the right side of the heart, which can lead to right ventricular failure as well as pulmonary overcirculation. Rupture of the papillary muscle may also lead to acute mitral regurgitation and subsequent pulmonary edema and possibly even cardiogenic shock.\n\nSince the electrical characteristics of the infarcted tissue change (see pathophysiology section), arrhythmias are a frequent complication. The re-entry phenomenon may cause rapid heart rates (ventricular tachycardia and even ventricular fibrillation), and ischemia in the electrical conduction system of the heart may cause a complete heart block (when the impulse from the sinoatrial node, the normal cardiac pacemaker, does not reach the heart chambers).\n\nAs a reaction to the damage of the heart muscle, inflammatory cells are attracted. The inflammation may reach out and affect the heart sac. This is called pericarditis. In Dressler's syndrome, this occurs several weeks after the initial event. If pericarditis were to persist, pleural effusion may also occur which could in turn lead to cardiac tamponade if not properly treated.\n\nA complication that may occur in the acute setting soon after a myocardial infarction or in the weeks following is cardiogenic shock. Cardiogenic shock is defined as a hemodynamic state in which the heart cannot produce enough of a cardiac output to supply an adequate amount of oxygenated blood to the tissues of the body.\n\nWhile the data on performing interventions on individuals with cardiogenic shock is sparse, trial data suggests a long-term mortality benefit in undergoing revascularization if the individual is less than 75 years old and if the onset of the acute myocardial infarction is less than 36 hours and the onset of cardiogenic shock is less than 18 hours. If the patient with cardiogenic shock is not going to be revascularized, aggressive hemodynamic support is warranted, with insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump if not contraindicated. If diagnostic coronary angiography does not reveal a culprit blockage that is the cause of the cardiogenic shock, the prognosis is poor.\n\nHemolysis induced by PMIVSD occluder"}
{"id": "46812341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46812341", "title": "National PTSD Awareness Day", "text": "National PTSD Awareness Day\n\nNational PTSD Awareness Day is a day dedicated to creating awareness regarding PTSD (Post Traumatic Stress Disorder). It is acknowledged annually on the 27th of June. The US Senate officially designated this day in 2010. In 2014 the Senate designated the whole month of June as PTSD Awareness Month.\n\nIn the US, 6.8% of adults will experience PTSD in their lifetimes with women twice as likely as men to experience it (10.4% to 5%) frequently as a result of sexual trauma. Veterans are another group highly likely to experience PTSD during their lives, with Vietnam War veterans at 30%, Gulf War veterans at 10%, and Iraq War veterans at 14%.\n\nOn this day, organizations that work with employees, consumers, and patients at risk for the condition work to get information about symptoms and treatments for it out to the public in the hopes that when more people know about the disease more people who suffer from it will get treatment. The US Department of Defense is one of the major organizations involved as June is full of days relating to the military.\n"}
{"id": "6377657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6377657", "title": "Nebula (comics)", "text": "Nebula (comics)\n\nNebula is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Roger Stern and John Buscema, the character first appeared in \"The Avengers\" #257 (July 1985). A pirate and mercenary operating in outer space, the character has frequently appeared as an enemy of the Avengers, Guardians of the Galaxy and the Silver Surfer.\n\nNebula has appeared in various adaptations of the Marvel comics, including animated television series and video games. Karen Gillan portrays the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, beginning with the 2014 film \"Guardians of the Galaxy\" and its 2017 sequel \"Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2\". She reprised the role in the 2018 film \"\" and will do so for the 2019 fourth Avengers film.\n\nNebula was created by writer Roger Stern and artist John Buscema, and first appeared in \"The Avengers\" #257 (July 1985).\n\nA brutal space pirate and mercenary, Nebula seized control of Sanctuary II, a massive spaceship previously under the command of Thanos. Thanos was believed to be dead at this point, and Nebula claimed that he had been her grandfather. Nebula's band of mercenaries and pirates consisted of Skunge, Kehl, Gunthar and Levan.\n\nNebula asked the second Captain Marvel to join her mercenary band and aid them in conquering the Skrull Empire. However, Firelord learned that Nebula had massacred the Xandarians. Nebula used her space fleet to attack the Skrull space armada and the Avengers.\n\nNebula then schemed to gain absolute power using Earth scientist Dr. Harker's atomic compressor to release vast amounts of energy that were absorbed by the Infinity Union (Although this attempt nearly triggered the end of the universe when the experiment caused a second Big Bang that came close to annihilating everything before a small group of Avengers – Captain America, Iron Man, Thor, Spider-Man and Sersi – were able to escape the destruction and shut down the equipment in time to negate the unmaking of existence). She fought the Avengers, and absorbed energies from the Infinity Union through the implant in her brain. As she fought the Avengers, she lost her powers when Sersi removed the brain implant. Nebula then escaped.\n\nThe newly resurrected Thanos was offended by Nebula's claims of kinship. He reclaimed his ship and almost kills her, using the Infinity Gems. He transformed her into a grotesque virtual corpse still barely alive, leaving her as a maimed and seemingly mindless zombie, burned and disfigured by his energy beams.\n\nWhen he later claimed the Infinity Gauntlet, Thanos boasted that Nebula was his greatest creation — unable to die, but not truly alive either. However, when Thanos defeated Eternity and took his place, Thanos expanded his consciousness into the universe, leaving his body comatose. Nebula managed to take the Gauntlet from Thanos, using its power to restore herself to health and banish Thanos, seeking to conquer the universe herself. Thanos agreed to help a loose band of heroes defeat Nebula. The group in question consisted of Adam Warlock, Doctor Strange, the Silver Surfer, Thor, the Hulk, Firelord, Doctor Doom and Drax the Destroyer— the only heroes that Strange had been able to locate in the time available to him. The group confronted her, and, with Thanos exploiting Nebula's inexperience with wielding the Gauntlet, she was tricked into undoing the events of Thanos's godhood and all the death and destruction Thanos wreaked with his power.\nThe Cosmic Pantheon (which Thanos had earlier defeated) immediately appeared, and battled her. With Nebula thus distracted— lacking the knowledge to realize that they were keeping her occupied by attacking her all at once, thus preventing her from thinking of a less direct method of assault— the Surfer and Warlock were able to steal the Gauntlet from her by exploiting Warlock's connection to the Soul Gem, disrupting the unity between the Infinity Gems and forcing Nebula to drop the Gauntlet. Nebula was captured by Starfox and returned to Titan for trial, while Adam Warlock claimed the Gauntlet.\n\nNebula was later confronted by Firelord in the Titanian prison. In flashback, the murder of her abusive father was depicted. Nebula was later freed from prison by her lieutenant Geatar, and converted into a cyborg by Doctor Mandibus. She attempted to free her pirate crew from the \"Anvil\" space prison, but was thwarted by the Silver Surfer and Jack of Hearts. She killed her crew in escaping.\n\nNebula has appeared as one of Gamora's followers, 'The Graces'. In this role, she battled Ronan the Accuser alongside Stellaris. Ronan triumphed, severely wounding her.\n\nNebula is an athletic woman, and an excellent armed and unarmed combatant. She possesses a gifted intellect and is a brilliant battle strategist.\n\nNebula uses blasters worn on her wrists that fire concussive blasts of unknown energy or heat blasts that can incinerate a human being almost instantly. She also apparently wears a device that enables her to disguise her appearance, either through illusion-casting or through actual molecular rearrangement of her body and clothing.\n\nNebula was converted by Doctor Mandibus into a cyborg. She was given an artificial left eye, left arm, and left shoulder. The left upper quarter of her head and part of her right hip are sheathed in metal.\n\nNebula briefly possessed the Infinity Union, a combination of three devices that together could channel all forms of ambient energy into her which infused her with vast energies. She also briefly possessed the Infinity Gauntlet, which held six \"Infinity Gems\" of virtually-unlimited power, which gave her seemingly-absolute control of reality while she possessed them. However, her short sightedness meant that she often made crucial errors in judgment when wielding the power, like undoing the events of Thanos's godhood without realizing that this would revert her to her near-death state and free the imprisoned Cosmic Pantheon whom Thanos had recently defeated.\n\n\nKaren Gillan portrays Nebula in the Marvel Cinematic Universe as one of the children raised by Thanos alongside her adopted sister Gamora. Over time, Nebula developed an obsessive need to best Gamora in combat. Every time she lost a sparring match, Thanos subjected Nebula to torturous mutilation, replacing parts of her body with cybernetic enhancements for further improvement. This imbued Nebula with a deep hatred toward Thanos. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30307873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30307873", "title": "Neurogrid", "text": "Neurogrid\n\nNeurogrid is a piece of computer hardware that is designed specifically for simulation of biological brains. It uses analog computation to emulate ion channel activity, and digital communication to softwire structured connectivity patterns. Neurogrid simulates one million neurons and six billion synapses in real time. The neurons spike at a rate of ten times a second. In terms of number of simulated neurons, it rivals simulations done by the Blue Brain Project. However, by running the simulation of whole neurons, instead of simulation on molecular level, it needs only one millionth of Blue Brain's power. The entire board consumes less than two watts of electrical energy.\n\nNeurogrid was designed and built by the \"Brains in Silicon\" group at Stanford university. The group is led by Kwabena Boahen. The Neurogrid hardware was first up and running in late 2009. Since then it has been used to start performing simulation experiments.\n\nThe Neurogrid board contains sixteen \"Neurocores\", each of which has 256 x 256 silicon neurons in an 11.9 mm x 13.9 mm chip. An off-chip RAM and an on-chip RAM (in each Neurocore) softwire horizontal and vertical cortical connections, respectively. With 61 graded and 18 binary programmable parameters, common to all of its silicon neurons, a Neurocore can model a variety of spiking and interaction patterns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2038145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2038145", "title": "Nicolau Coelho", "text": "Nicolau Coelho\n\nNicolau Coelho (c.1460, in Felgueiras – 1502, off the coast of Mozambique) was an expert Portuguese navigator and explorer during the age of discovery. He participated in the discovery of the route to India by Vasco da Gama where he commanded Berrio, the first caravel to return; was captain of a ship in the fleet headed by Pedro Álvares Cabral who landed in Brazil. He died at sea, possibly off the coast of Mozambique, while returning from India in the 5th Portuguese Armada with Francisco de Albuquerque.\n\nNicolau Coelho (c.1460-1502) was presumably born in Felgueiras in northern Portugal. He was the son of Pedro Coelho and either Luísa de Góis or Inês de Ataíde, depending on the genealogical source. He married Brites Rodrigues de Brito sometime before 1495 and had several children: Nicolau, Francisco, Joana, Jorge, and Leonor.\n\nNicolau Coelho was a Portuguese explorer and one of the three captains (along with Paulo da Gama and Gonçalo Nunes) who accompanied Vasco da Gama in the Discovery of the sea route to India on July 8, 1497. He was the captain of the \"Berrio\" during this exploration and had as his navigator, Pêro Escobar. He was the first of Gama's captains to reach Mozambique, and establish contact with the sultan of Quiloa. He was also the first of Gama's armada to arrive in Lisbon, on July 10, 1499 where King Manuel I of Portugal bestowed to him a pension of 50,000 reis per year, 30,000 in interest for his lands and his descendants and a new coat of arms. He was made Knight of the Royal House (Cavaleiro da Casa Real) that same year.\n\nOn March 9, 1500, he accompanied Pedro Álvares Cabral in the discovery of Brazil being one of the captains of the fleet of 13 ships. After landing in Brazil, the fleet resumed their voyage east on May 3, 1500 where they were struck by a great storm near the Cape of Good Hope losing 4 vessels in the process and they continued with stops in modern-day Mozambique, Kenya, and Tanzania before finally reaching Calicut in India on September 13, 1500. The fleet returned to Lisbon on June 23, 1501. Cabral arrived back home with only 4 of the original 13 ships. \nCoelho left Portugal for a third time on April 14, 1503 as captain of the \"Faial\" with the armada of Afonso de Albuquerque, but died while returning home to Portugal in January 1504 along with Francisco de Albuquerque, Afonso's cousin, near the shallows of São Lázaro, modern day Quirimbas Islands, Mozambique.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33954342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33954342", "title": "Ought implies can", "text": "Ought implies can\n\n\"Ought implies can\" is an ethical formula ascribed to Immanuel Kant that claims an agent, if morally obliged to perform a certain action, must logically be able to perform it: \nKant believed this principle was a categorical freedom, bound only by the free will as opposed to the Humean hypothetical freedom (\"Free to do otherwise if I had so chosen\"). There are several ways of deriving the formula—for example, the argument that it is wrong to blame people for things that they cannot control (essentially phrasing the formula as the contrapositive \"'cannot' implies 'has no duty to'\").\n"}
{"id": "4548617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4548617", "title": "Pokémon: Tenth Anniversary", "text": "Pokémon: Tenth Anniversary\n\nPokémon: Tenth Anniversary was a special celebration that took place in 2006 to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the debut of the \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" video games, whose introduction in Japan, on February 27, 1996, launched the Pokémon franchise.\n\nThe Journey Across America was a weekly 24-city tour from February 25 to July 22 where Pokémon fans from across the country participated in various activities, including a Video Game Tournament in two categories, 12 years old and under and 13 years old and older. Among them included:\n\n\nThe program was organized, in conjunction with Pokémon USA, by AMP Agency in Cranbury, New Jersey. The internal account team included Danielle (Adams) Zukowski and Rick Phillips. The in-mall team was Colin Candy, Jodi Hansen, Todd Neimier, Chad Young and Trevor.\n\nThe tournament was divided by the cities that the tour stopped in. Two winners from each city, a person from the 12 and under range and 13 and up range would go on to compete at a national level in New York City at Bryant Park. The grand prize winner of the tournament received a trip for four to Tokyo, Japan among other prizes. Other events held at the tour included free Polaroids taken with Pikachu and Munchlax, tables set up for friendly TCG battles, a demonstration on the basics of Pokémon in general, and playable consoles featuring \"XD: Gale of Darkness\". Players were also able to download a \"Pokémon Trozei\" demo to their Nintendo DS. Journey Across America visited a total of 24 cities.\n\nThis is event was similar to the Pokémon League Summer Training Tour held in the summer of 1999, among other such Pokémon tours.\n\nTwo additional tournaments were held (without the JAA events) at Space Center Houston and the Nintendo World Store at Rockefeller Center in New York City. The winners of those events, along with eight \"second chance\" qualifiers in the two categories, competed in the finals were that held as part of the US Tenth Anniversary Celebration event on Tuesday, August 8 at Bryant Park in New York City, with the winners (Samin Syed, 13, from Roslyn, New York, who entered as a 12-year-old in the 12-and-under category, and Minh Le, 22, from Herndon, Virginia) receiving a trip to Tokyo in 2007.\n\nA made-for-television movie was released commemorating the tenth anniversary of the Pokémon franchise entitled \"The Mastermind of Mirage Pokémon\". It aired on Kids WB! on April 29, 2006. The revamped new voice cast version was included with the \"\" DVD when it was released on September 19 and later aired on Cartoon Network October 28.\n\nThe United States celebration of Pokémon's Tenth Anniversary, titled \"The Party of the Decade\", was held on Tuesday, August 8 at New York City's Bryant Park. This was a larger version of the Journey Across America, which included the finals of the Pokémon Video Game Tournament, costumed character appearances including the American debut of Lucario, previews of the new \"Ranger\" and \"Mystery Dungeon\" games, and other events. Professional wrestling icon Hulk Hogan hosted the activities. It also marked the farewell appearance of the original Pikachu Balloon from the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, which flew above Bryant Park. A new Pikachu balloon, which features the mascot of the franchise chasing a Poké Ball and cheeks that light up, premiered at the 80th annual event November 23.\n\n"}
{"id": "3050547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3050547", "title": "Rahul Sarpeshkar", "text": "Rahul Sarpeshkar\n\nRahul Sarpeshkar is the Thomas E. Kurtz Professor and a Professor of Engineering, Professor of Physics, Professor of Microbiology & Immunology, and Professor of Molecular and Systems Biology at Dartmouth. Sarpeshkar, whose interdisciplinary work is in bioengineering, electrical engineering, quantum physics, and biophysics, is the inaugural chair of the William H. Neukom cluster of computational science, which focuses on analog, quantum, and biological computation. The clusters, designed by faculty from across the institution to address major global challenges, are part of President Philip Hanlon’s vision for strengthening academic excellence at Dartmouth. Prior to Dartmouth, Sarpeshkar was a tenured professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and led the Analog Circuits and Biological Systems Group. He is now also a Visiting Scientist at MIT's Research Laboratory of Electronics.\n\nHis research has contributed to the fields of:\n\nSarpeshkar's recent TEDx talk 'Analog Supercomputers: From Quantum Atom to Living Body' summarizes some of his unique and interdisciplinary research . His research leverages analog circuits and analog computation to architect innovations in bioengineering and synthetic biology, biological supercomputing, ultra energy efficient computing, and quantum computing. For example, by mapping log-domain analog electronic circuits to log-domain analog DNA-protein circuits in living cells \nProfessor Sarpeshkar's work in the May 2013 edition of NATURE (doi: 10.1038/nature12148) pioneered the field of analog synthetic biology . Recently, he has invented methods to emulate quantum physics with classical analog circuits rigorously and used it to create novel quantum-inspired architectures that do spectrum analysis like the biological inner ear or cochlea, i.e. a 'Quantum Cochlea'. Professor Sarpeshkar's book introduced a novel form of electronics termed \"Cytomorphic electronics\", i.e., electronics inspired by cell biology . It is based on the astounding similarity between the Boltzmann exponential equations of noisy molecular flux in chemical reactions and the Boltzmann exponential equations of noisy electron flow in transistors. Hence circuits in biology and chemistry can be mapped to circuits in electronics and vice versa. Therefore, this 'cytomorphic mapping' enables one to map analog electronic motifs to analog molecular circuit motifs in living cells as in the work in NATURE and also to simulate large-scale feedback networks in cells with analog electronic supercomputers. Thus, his work has led to a novel and fundamental analog circuits approach to the fields of synthetic biology and systems biology, both of which are highly important in the future of biotechnology and medicine and . For example, the synthesis of biofuels, chemicals, energy, molecular and cellular sensors, network drug design, treatments for cancer, diabetes, auto-immune, infectious, and neural diseases can all impacted be impacted by his fundamental work on analog synthetic and systems biology.\n\nSarpeshkar's work on glucose powered medical implants has been featured in the Economist, WIRED, and Science News and was highlighted by Scientific American among 2012's top scientific breakthroughs . Professor Sarpeshkar's work on a hybrid analog-digital circuit that mimics feedback networks in the brain has appeared on the cover of the journal Nature and has received wide media attention . His work on an ultra-low-power analog cochlear-implant processor for the deaf has had wide impact and been featured in articles in the New York Times , Technology Review, and IEEE Spectrum as has work on ultra-low-power brain-machine interfaces for the blind and paralyzed and for cardiac and non-invasive monitoring. His group holds several first and best world records in the fields of medical devices, medical electronics, ultra low power, analog, and bio-inspired design .\n\nHe has authored more than 135 technical publications and is an inventor on more than thirty six awarded patents. He is the inventor of the \"RF Cochlea\", a rapid radio-frequency spectrum analyzer inspired by the human ear . His book \"Ultra Low Power Bioelectronics: Fundamentals, Biomedical Applications, and Bio-inspired Systems\" is published by Cambridge University Press and provides a broad and deep treatment of the fields of analog, ultra low power, biomedical, biological, energy-harvesting and bio-inspired design. It is based on a course that Sarpeshkar has taught at MIT for many years, which emphasizes how the universal language of analog circuits provides a pictorial and intuitive method for analyzing differential equations in physics, chemistry, biology, engineering, and medicine. He has won the Junior Bose award and the Ruth and Joel Spira award for excellence in teaching at MIT.\n\nProfessor Sarpeshkar has received several awards including the NSF Career Award, the ONR Young Investigator Award, the Packard Fellows Award, the Indus Technovator Award, and is a Fellow of the IEEE. He is an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Circuits and Systems and serves on the program committees of several technical conferences. His recent TEDx talk 'Analog Supercomputers: From Quantum Atom to Living Body' summarizes some of his unique and interdisciplinary research . His invited Google Tech talk at the 2011 Frontiers of Engineering Conference, hosted by the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) summarizes his earlier work on an ultra low power programmable analog cochlear implant processor and other ultra low power implantable devices .\n\nSarpeshkar received B.S. degrees in Electrical Engineering and Physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Ph.D. degree in Computation and Neural Systems from the California Institute of Technology. His adviser at Caltech was Carver A. Mead. He was a Member of Technical Staff at Bell Labs in its Department of Biological Computation within its Physics Division.\n\n"}
{"id": "1591873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591873", "title": "Robert Gray (sea captain)", "text": "Robert Gray (sea captain)\n\nRobert Gray (May 10, 1755 – \"c.\" July, 1806) was an American merchant sea captain who is known for his achievements in connection with two trading voyages to the northern Pacific coast of North America, between 1790 and 1793, which pioneered the American maritime fur trade in that region. In the course of those voyages, Gray explored portions of that coast and, in 1790, completed the first American circumnavigation of the world. Perhaps his most remembered accomplishment from his explorations was his coming upon and then naming of the Columbia River, in 1792 while on his second voyage.\n\nGray's earlier and later life are both comparatively obscure. He was born in Tiverton, Rhode Island, and may have served in the Continental Navy during the American Revolutionary War. After his two famous voyages, he carried on his career as a sea captain, mainly of merchantmen in the Atlantic. This included what was meant to be a third voyage to the Northwest Coast, but was ended by the capture of his ship by French privateers, during the Franco-American Quasi-War, and command of an American privateer later in that same conflict. Gray died at sea in 1806, near Charleston, South Carolina, possibly of yellow fever. Many geographic features along the Oregon and Washington coasts bear Gray's name, as do numerous schools in the region.\n\nRobert Gray was born in Tiverton, Rhode Island, on May 10, 1755, to William Gray. Little is known of his early life. He is known to have served in the Triangular trade of South Carolina, aboard the \"Pacific\".\n\nOn September 30, 1787, Robert Gray and Captain John Kendrick left Boston, to trade along the north Pacific coast. Captain Gray commanded \"Lady Washington\" and Captain Kendrick commanded \"Columbia Rediviva\". They were sent by Boston merchants including Charles Bulfinch. Bulfinch and the other financial backers came up with the idea of trading pelts from the northwest coast of North America and taking them directly to China after Bulfinch had read about Captain Cook’s success doing the same. Bulfinch had read Cook’s \"Journals\", published in 1784, that in part discussed his success selling sea otter pelts in Canton, thus the American merchants thought they could copy that success. Prior to this, other America traders, such as Robert Morris, had sent ships to trade with China, notably the \"Empress of China\" in 1784, but had had trouble finding goods for which the Chinese would trade. Bulfinch’s learning of Cook's pelt-trading solved this problem, so New England sea merchants could trade with China profitably. Gray might have been the first American to visit the Northwest Coast, but Simon Metcalfe of the \"Eleanora\" may have arrived earlier—perhaps as much as a year earlier.\n\nOn the voyage of Kendrick and Gray, the ships' cargo included blankets, knives, iron bars, and other trade goods. Both ships had official letters from Congress and passports from Massachusetts for their trading voyage. Kendrick and Gray sailed around Cape Horn at the southern tip of South America, first stopping at the Cape Verde Islands and the Falkland Islands in the Atlantic Ocean. In January after passing Cape Horn, the ships encountered a storm that separated the two vessels and damaged the \"Columbia Rediviva\". The damage forced Kendrick to sail for the nearest port, Juan Fernandez. Juan Fernandez was a Spanish port under the control of Don Blas Gonzalez commandant of the garrison. There, the \"Columbia\" was repaired before sailing for the northwest coast. Meanwhile, Gray reached the coast in August. Upon reaching the coast, Gray ran aground attempting to enter a river near 46°N latitude. Here the ship was attacked by natives, with the ship losing one crew member before freeing itself and proceeding north. On September 17, 1788, the \"Lady Washington\" with Gray in command reached Nootka Sound.\n\nThe \"Columbia\" arrived soon after and the two ships wintered at Nootka Sound. They were still in the vicinity when Esteban José Martínez arrived in early May, 1789, to assert Spanish sovereignty. A number of British merchant ships soon arrived, as well, and conflict between the Spanish and British resulted in the Nootka Crisis, which almost resulted in war between the two nations. Martínez seized a number of ships, including the \"Princess Royal\". The two American ships were left alone, although Martínez captured a third American ship, the \"Fair American\", when it arrived at Nootka Sound in the fall of 1789. Robert Gray witnessed much of the Nootka Incident.\n\nDuring their trading along the coastlines of what is now British Columbia, Washington, Oregon, and California, the two explored many bays and inland waters. In 1788, Gray encountered Captain John Meares of England. Meares subsequently published reports and maps of the Pacific Northwest that included a voyage by Robert Gray through a large, imaginary inland sea between the Strait of Juan de Fuca and Dixon Entrance. When George Vancouver asked Gray about this in 1792, Gray said he never made such a voyage.\nIn 1788, Gray had attempted to enter a large river, but was unable due to the tides, this river being the Columbia River. At the outset of the voyage, Gray captained the \"Lady Washington\" and Kendrick captained the \"Columbia Rediviva\", but the captains swapped vessels during the voyage, putting Gray in command of the \"Columbia\". After the switch, Kendrick stayed on the North American coast, trading for pelts and furs, while Gray sailed their existing cargo of pelts to China, stopping off at the Sandwich Islands, now known as Hawaii, en route. Gray arrived in Canton in early 1790 and traded his cargo for large amounts of tea. Gray then continued on west, sailing through the Indian Ocean, around the Cape of Good Hope, and across the Atlantic, arriving back in Boston on August 9, 1790. As such, the \"Columbia\" became the first American vessel to circumnavigate the globe. Although the commercial venture was disappointing, Gray was paraded through Boston for the circumnavigation accomplishment. Accompanying Gray was a Hawaiian native, dressed in traditional Hawaiian dress, who had taken passage on the \"Columbia\". Gray then attended a reception held in his honor by governor John Hancock.\n\nAlso on this voyage, Kendrick and Gray were instructed to purchase as much land as they could from native Indians in the region. Kendrick did so on at least two occasions, including on August 5, 1791, when he purchased from a native tribe, near latitude 49°50′N, this purchase occurring while Gray had completed his voyage and since returned.\n\nThe success in profits realized by this voyage had the most immediate effect of Gray's setting out for the north Pacific coast again, only six weeks after returning thence. The further effect was that other New England sea merchants began to send vessels of their own to take part in this new trade opportunity, including the dispatch of the \"Hope\" in September 1790, under the command of Joseph Ingraham, Gray's first mate on his first voyage. Within a few years, many Yankee merchants were involved in the continuous trade of pelts to China, and by 1801, 16 American vessels were engaged in this triangular route. These mercantile activities encroached upon territorial claims by other nations to this disputed region, notably those of Spain and Russia, and in the coming years, they would be used in support of American claims to the Oregon Country, and would contribute to the limiting to California and to Alaska, respectively, of the Spanish and Russian claims.\n\nGray set sail for the northwest coast again in the \"Columbia\" on September 28, 1790, reaching his destination in 1792. Gray and Kendrick rejoined each other for a time, after Gray's return to the region. On this voyage, Gray, though he was still a private merchant, was sailing under papers of the United States of America signed by President George Washington. Gray put in at Nootka Sound on June 5, 1791, and wintered at a stockade they built and named Fort Defiance. Over this winter, the crew built a 45-ton sloop named , which was launched in the spring with Gray’s first mate, Robert Haswell, in charge. He sailed as far north as the Queen Charlotte Islands during his voyage.\n\nOnce April came, Gray and the \"Columbia\" sailed south while \"Adventure\" sailed north. After wintering on Vancouver Island, Gray set sail again on April 2, 1792, when he left the trading post of Clayoquot. As he departed, Gray ordered the destruction of the Nuu-chah-nulth (Nootka) village of Opitsitah (Opitsaht). The attack was a retaliation for insults he thought he had endured and in response to rumors of a plot against his men conceived by some local natives and a Sandwich Islander of his own crew. The plot may have been real, but might have been a misunderstanding. The village of Opitsaht, which consisted of about 200 houses with much carved work—a \"fine village, the Work of Ages\", according to Gray's officer John Boit, which was \"in a short time totally destroy'd\". Fortunately, it was deserted at the time. John Boit, the keeper of his own ship's log, wrote that Gray had let his passions go too far. In 2005, descendants of Gray formally apologized for the destruction of Opitsaht. Gray ordered several other attacks during the 1792 voyage. In May 1792, Gray ordered an attack on a Chicklisaht Nuu-chah-nulth village in Esperanza Inlet or Nasparti Inlet north of Nootka Sound, killing seven and seizing the natives' sea otter furs. The Chicklisaht took their wounded to the Spanish post at Nootka Sound and asked the commandant, Bodega y Quadra, to punish Gray. This attack came after a breakdown in trading negotiations. The price of sea otter furs had increased dramatically since the late 1780s. Gray was one of a number of captains who decided to use force to acquire furs. Later in 1792, in Grays Harbor, Captain Gray fired on a group of Chinooks, killing 20. Still later, in Clayoquot Sound again, Gray killed or wounded at least 25 natives who were approaching his ship in a war canoe during the night. He battled a group of Kwakiutls in late 1792.\n\nDuring his 1792 journey aboard the \"Columbia Rediviva\", Gray noticed muddy waters flowing from shore and decided to investigate whether he might have encountered the \"Great River of the West\". While waiting for favorable weather, on April 29, Gray spotted a ship and exchanged greetings with her. This ship was the \"HMS Discovery\" commanded by British naval officer Captain George Vancouver. The two captains met and discussed the geography of the coastlines: Gray told Vancouver about the large river he had attempted to enter in 1788, but Vancouver doubted a large river was at that latitude. So Gray continued south, leaving the Strait of Juan de Fuca on April 30, 1792, trading for more pelts as the ship sailed. On May 7, he took the \"Columbia\" into the estuarine bay of Grays Harbor, Washington. (Gray himself actually named this Bullfinch Harbor, but Vancouver's after-the-fact choice was the name that stuck.)\n\nAfterward, Gray carried on south to what was, he rightly suspected, the mouth of a great river, and looked further for a way into this river. On May 11, his men discovered what he sought, and he ordered a small sailboat launched to attempt to find a safe passage across the sand bars in the process known as sounding. Finally, on the evening of May 11, 1792, Gray's men found a safe channel, so ship and crew sailed into the estuary of the Columbia River. Once there, they sailed upriver and Gray named this large river Columbia after his ship.\n\nAfter entering the Columbia, they were met by many natives in their canoes, while the crew prepared to take on fresh water. The ship and crew traveled about upriver and traded items such as nails for pelts, salmon, and animal meat over a nine-day period. In addition to naming the river, Gray also named other landmarks such as Adams Point and Cape Hancock. However, many of these places have since been renamed. The farthest point Gray explored upriver is now known as Grays Bay, and the river that flows into it Grays River. These names were not given by Gray, but by William Broughton, George Vancouver's lieutenant, who explored the Columbia in October 1792. Robert Gray had made a chart of the bay and the mouth of the river and a copy was acquired by Vancouver.\n\nGray's success in entering the river would eventually form part of the basis for U.S. territorial claims to the Oregon Country. On May 20, Gray and crew sailed from the Columbia, heading north to rendezvous with their sloop \"Adventure\" before setting sail for China.\n\nOn July 22, 1792 Gray sailed the \"Columbia\" into the Nootka Sound accompanied by the \"Hope\" under Ingraham. Juan Francisco de la Bodega y Quadra was present as the commandant of the Spanish settlement there. Bodega was awaiting the arrival of George Vancouver so the two could implement the first Nootka Convention. Bodega had intended to turn over the entire establishment to Vancouver, but while waiting for Vancouver, he began to change his mind. Over the summer, Bodega had begun to realize that John Meares had not only greatly exaggerated his losses during the Nootka Crisis, but also had illegally operated British trading ships under the flag of Portugal. When Gray and Ingraham arrived at Nootka, Vancouver was still en route. Bodega took the opportunity to ask the Americans if they would give him their account of the events of 1789 that led to the Nootka Crisis. Ingraham answered Bodega's letter at length. He wrote, \"as I knew every circumstance, Captain Gray desired I would answer and he would sign it jointly.\"\n\nAccording to the letter signed by Ingraham and Gray, Meares had made many false claims about the events of 1789. The Portuguese ships, Ingraham said, were definitely British ships pretending to be Portuguese. The \"house\" that Meares said he built at Nootka Sound, and which was explicitly mentioned in the Nootka Convention, was only a \"rough hut\", built and torn down in 1788. By 1789, when the Spanish arrived, \"there was no vestige of any house remaining\". The Nootka Convention said that Spain had seized buildings and that these must be restored to Britain. Further, Ingraham wrote that Meares had not purchased any land from Maquinna, as claimed. About the arrest of James Colnett by Esteban José Martínez, Ingraham and Gray wrote that Colnett had insulted and threatened Martínez, and that Colnett had drawn his sword on Martínez, justifying Colnett's arrest. The letter closed with a statement of friendship: \"We sincerely hope, sir, when things are represented with truth, it will rescue our friend Don Estevan J. Martínez from censure... As to the treatment of the Americans by Don Estevan, we have ever testified to it in terms due to such hospitality, and we are again happy to have it in our power to do what we deem justice to his conduct.\" The Americans were not a neutral party; the United States had only gained its independence from Britain through war a few years before. Also, the Americans were in direct competition with the British, but not the Spanish, for the fur trade of the Northwest coast. It was in their interest to support the Spanish case.\n\nBodega was pleased to receive Ingraham and Gray's account. Once Vancouver arrived, Bodega used the report, along with other tactics, to force Vancouver into a diplomatic deadlock once negotiations had begun. Were it not for Ingraham and Gray's letter, along with Vancouver's late arrival, and several other factors, Bodega likely would have turned the entire Spanish establishment at Nootka over to the British. Instead, Bodega offered only to turn over the small cove where Meares had built his hut in 1789. Vancouver could not accept this. In the end, the two agreed to let their governments work it out. As a result, the settlement at Nootka remained Spanish for several years, until under the third Nootka Convention both nations agreed to abandon the port.\n\nWhile Gray was at Nootka Sound, Bodega provided a small house near his own. Gray stayed there until he left Nootka Sound. In addition, Bodega had the \"Columbia\" repaired by the Spanish caulkers, blacksmiths, and carpenters. Bodega also provided fresh food, such as vegetables and hot bread, every day. When Gray and Ingraham left, they were given large amounts of food, such as salmon, pork, eggs, butter, fresh bread, wine, brandy, and large amounts of cabbage and salad. Bodega refused any payment for any of his services. Ingraham wrote in his journal, \"Considering the part of the world we were in, I thought this a very handsome present. Not a day passed during our stay in this port, but every ship—without respect to nation or person—received marks of Don Juan's hospitality.\"\n\nIn September, most of the ships that had visited Nootka Sound left, including the \"Columbia\", under Gray, along with the sloop \"Adventure\". Bodega also left, on the \"Activa\". Bodega and Gray met shortly after leaving and agreed to sail to Neah Bay where, in the last week of September, Bodega purchased \"Adventure\" from Gray. After this, Gray took the \"Columbia\" across the Strait of Juan de Fuca to Port San Juan (today the site of Port Renfrew, British Columbia), where the final preparations were made for the long voyage across the Pacific. Gray left North America on October 3, 1792, arriving in the Hawaiian Islands on October 29, and in Macau on December 8.\n\nIn Canton, Gray again traded his cargo for tea, and then sailed west towards the Atlantic Coast of the United States. Gray returned to Boston in July 1793, after again circumnavigating the globe. On February 3, 1794, he took a wife named Martha Atkins, in a marriage performed in Boston by the Reverend John Eliott. The couple had five children together.\n\nLater in his career, Gray was involved in the Franco-American Quasi-War of 1798–1800, an undeclared and purely maritime conflict related to the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nOn September 10, 1798, Gray set sail from Salem in command of the bark \"Alert\", on another trading voyage bound for the Northwest Coast, where he was meant to spend a season or two fur-trading, and thence for Canton and home again, as before. This voyage was cut short while yet outbound, though, by the capture of Gray's ship in the South Atlantic by a French privateer. \"Alert\" was taken by \"La Republicaine\" on November 17, about east of Rio de Janeiro, then sailed by a prize crew (though under Gray's command) to the Spanish port of Montevideo, on the Río de la Plata, arriving on December 14. There, \"Alert\" and its cargo were sold as prizes of the French ship. \"Alert\" left port on January 11, with a Spanish crew under the Spanish flag, bound for the Pacific. Gray returned to the United States and went on with his sailing career.\n\nIn 1799, Gray commanded the privateer \"Lucy\" in the continuing issue with the French. The \"Lucy\" was a 12-gun ship with a crew of 25.\n\nOn November 21, 1800, Gray left Boston in command of the schooner \"James\", with a cargo of iron and stone ballast, bound for Rio de Janeiro, where he arrived on April 18, 1801. He also made subsequent voyages to England and the southern United States. Gray died at sea in 1806, near Charleston, South Carolina. The cause of his death is believed to have been yellow fever. He left behind his wife and four daughters, who later petitioned the U.S. Congress for a government pension, based on his voyages and a claim that he was a naval officer for the Continental Navy during the Revolutionary War.\nGray did not publish his geographic discoveries on the Columbia River, nor those elsewhere along the Pacific coast. Captain Vancouver did publish Gray's discoveries in England, along with his own explorations, and gave Gray credit. At the time, these discoveries by Gray did not gain him any renown nor were thought important. However, the trading opportunities Gray pioneered (in regard to Americans) were soon followed up by other New England merchants, with the result that the Indians of the Northwest Coast came to call Americans \"Boston men\". Moreover, Gray's priority in entering of the Columbia was later used by the United States in support of its territorial claims to what Americans called the Oregon Country. The rival British claimants called the more southerly portion of this disputed area the Columbia District, which they derived from the river-name chosen by Gray. Columbia District eventually lent itself to the name of the mid-19th-century colony of British Columbia. When that colony joined Canada in 1871, it became the existing province of British Columbia.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38238581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38238581", "title": "Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting conspiracy theories", "text": "Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting conspiracy theories\n\nThe Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting occurred on December 14, 2012, in Newtown, Connecticut. The perpetrator, Adam Lanza, fatally shot his mother before murdering 20 students and six staff members at the Sandy Hook Elementary School, and later committing suicide. A number of fringe figures have promoted conspiracy theories that doubt or dispute what occurred at Sandy Hook. Various conspiracy theorists have claimed, for example, that the massacre was actually orchestrated by the U.S. government as part of an elaborate plot to promote stricter gun control laws. Other conspiracy theorists, such as Alex Jones, have denied that the massacre actually occurred, asserting that it was \"completely fake.\"\n\nNo evidence supports these conspiracy theories, which make a number of implausible claims. Moreover, many Sandy Hook conspiracy theories contradict one another. A number of sources have published articles debunking various claims put forward by conspiracy theorists. In 2018, the parents of several children killed in the Sandy Hook shooting launched a lawsuit against Alex Jones and other authors of conspiracy videos for defamation, accusing them of engaging in a campaign of \"false, cruel, and dangerous assertions.”\n\nSome conspiracy theories have alleged that the shooting was a hoax and a false flag operation staged by the United States government. Others claim the attack is being used by politicians to push through new gun control legislation, or to otherwise persecute gun owners and survivalists.\n\nLawyer and dentist Orly Taitz—best known for her promotion of Barack Obama citizenship (\"birther\") conspiracy theories—was quoted as asking \"Was Adam Lanza drugged and hypnotized by his handlers to make him into a killing machine as an excuse as the regime is itching to take all means of self defense from the populace before the economic collapse?\" \n\nTalk show host Clyde Lewis wrote: \"Don’t you find it at all interesting that Adam Lanza, the alleged shooter at Sandy Hook, woke up one day and decided to shoot up a school and kill children at about the same time that Barack Obama told the U.N. that he would sign the small arms treaty?\"\n\nAccording to Live Science, \"No one, regardless of what side of the gun control issue they are on, can deny that guns played a key role in the Sandy Hook killings. So the conspiracy theorists must instead challenge the claim that the attack even occurred. They believe it's all a hoax to scare people into supporting more gun control and a step toward an outright repeal of the Second Amendment.\" They also found that the vast majority of evidence used by conspiracy theorists to support the concept that Sandy Hook was a hoax is contradictory. Snopes.com also debunked several claims of alleged United States government involvement in the shootings.\n\nPress TV, the official state media outlet of Iran, has promoted various antisemitic conspiracy theories blaming \"Israeli death squads\" for the shooting. Press TV interviewed \"Veterans Today\" website Gordon Duff, who quoted Michael Harris, a former Republican candidate for governor of Arizona, who made the \"Israeli death squads\" claim. Harris has publicly associated with neo-Nazi groups in the past and has previously claimed that Israel was responsible for the 2011 Norway attacks. Duff asserted that the attacks were an act of \"revenge\" for the perceived cooling of Israel–United States relations under President Obama, especially as a response to Obama's decision to nominate former senator Chuck Hagel, a perceived critic of Israel, for the position of United States Secretary of Defense. In another broadcast by Press TV, Holocaust denier James H. Fetzer claimed that the massacre \"appears to have been a psy op intended to strike fear in the hearts of Americans\" that was conducted by \"agents of Israel.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported that claims broadcast on Press TV contain a large number of \"obvious logical fallacies\" typical of Iranian propaganda, which \"has a well-earned reputation for incendiary anti-Israel stories and for wild conspiracy theories.\" \"The Atlantic\" wrote that the story \"obviously plays on the worst fears of those who believe in secret Jewish cabals that run the world, but it's a pretty pathetic attempt at slander, even for Iran.\"\n\nBen Swann, a Cincinnati news anchor for Fox affiliate WXIX-TV, has suggested on his personal YouTube channel that Adam Lanza was accompanied by another shooter; he has made similar claims about the Aurora shooting and the Wisconsin Sikh temple shooting from earlier in 2012. Other conspiracy theorists have claimed that as many as four shooters were present.\n\nThere is no credible evidence that any additional shooters were present at the event. Some such reports may have been influenced by confused early news reports of the events.\n\nOther conspiracy theories have focused on the claim that Adam Lanza's father was an executive with GE Energy Financial Services. According to these theories, Lanza's father was supposed to testify before the Senate Banking Committee with information about the Libor scandal. However, no such hearings were scheduled. Similar claims had been made about the father of James Holmes, the convicted perpetrator of the 2012 Aurora shooting.\n\nConspiracy theories have claimed that various timestamps for creation dates, whois records, and Google caches of various memorial websites, fundraising sites, and Facebook were created before or immediately after the date and time of the shooting and are therefore \"evidence\" of a conspiracy or cover up. However, timestamps are frequently incorrect, particularly on search engines. Some timestamps are initially created and assigned to URLs that are then repurposed, meaning that a URL linked to a current event can have a much older date.\n\nIn September 2014, conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who runs the website \"InfoWars\", which had previously claimed that the murders were a \"false flag\" attack perpetrated by the government, made a new conspiracy claim that \"no one died\" at Sandy Hook Elementary School because the Uniform Crime Reports showed no murders in Newtown for 2012, and that the victims were \"child actors.\" This claim is false and misrepresents the FBI report. In reality, because the Connecticut State Police was the lead investigator after the attack, the Sandy Hook victims were included in Connecticut's statewide records (under \"State Police Misc.\") rather than under the Newtown statistics.\n\nIn November 2016, Erica L. Lafferty, daughter of Dawn Lafferty Hochsprung, the school principal who was shot and killed at Sandy Hook School, wrote open letters to then-President-elect Donald Trump (published in \"Medium\" and \"USA Today\"), calling upon him to denounce Jones, after Trump had appeared on \"Infowars\" during his presidential campaign and lavished praise on its presenter, saying that the conspiracy theorist had an \"amazing\" reputation and pledging not to let him down. On February 20, 2017, the Newtown School Board wrote to President Trump and urged him to recognize the murders of 26 people at Sandy Hook and to \"remove your support from anyone who continues to insist that the tragedy was staged or not real.\" Trump did not respond to the letter.\n\nOn April 16, 2018, parents of two of the victims of the shooting sued Alex Jones for $1 million.\n\nJames Tracy, a former professor at Florida Atlantic University who taught a course on conspiracy theories, has suggested the shooting either did not actually occur or occurred very differently than accounted in mainstream reports, claiming political motives for the coverup. His allegations were strongly criticized by Patricia Llodra, a Newtown selectwoman. Additionally, Florida Atlantic president Mary Jane Saunders issued a statement that Tracy's views were \"not shared by\" the university. In response to his comments, the university opened an investigation of Tracy, who had tenure.\n\nIn December 2015, after the family of Noah Pozner claimed that Tracy had harassed them, FAU moved to fire Tracy. Chan Lowe of the \"Sun-Sentinel\" speculated that the comments were a publicity stunt by Tracy. Tracy later declined an appearance on CNN with Anderson Cooper, suggesting that Cooper wanted to bring him and his family members harm by identifying him in a prior broadcast. The university fired Tracy on January 5, 2016, citing his refusal to file required paperwork related to outside employment for several years.\n\nWhile Tracy has since withdrawn some of his suggestions, conceding that real deaths occurred in the shooting, other sources have continued to claim that the entire event was a hoax. A video similarly questioning official accounts of the shooting received several million views on YouTube within a week of its posting, although the video has since been modified to display a disclaimer explaining that its creators \"in no way claim this shooting never took place, or that people did not lose their lives.\"\n\nOn September 12, 2014, during a political debate, Colorado Republican Party candidate Tom Ready (who was running for Pueblo County Commission) was accused by his opponent, Sal Pace, of posting an article on his Facebook page claiming the Sandy Hook shootings \"never happened\". Ready responded: \"Well, there is some question of whether it happened, Sal.\" This was followed by more statements of the same tenor, prompting outraged yells from the audience. After allegedly receiving a death threat the next day, Ready reportedly apologized for his remarks.\n\nOther conspiracy theorists have tried to connect the shooting to references in popular culture. Prison Planet, a website owned by British conspiracy theorist Paul Joseph Watson, mentioned that Newtown-based author Suzanne Collins wrote \"The Hunger Games\" books, in which 22 children are \"ritualistically\" killed, while 20 children were killed in the shooting. Others pointed out that \"Sandy Hook\" can be seen on a map in the 2012 Batman film \"The Dark Knight Rises\" despite Sandy Hook also being the name of the New Jersey peninsula just south of New York Harbor. This is what some conspiracy theorists refer to as predictive programming.\n\nSeveral conspiracy theorists have also claimed a six-year-old victim of the shooting subsequently appeared in a photograph with President Barack Obama. In fact, the child in the photograph is actually the victim's sister, wearing her deceased sister's dress.\n\nWriting about the Sandy Hook conspiracy theories, Benjamin Radford argued that most conspiracy theorists who allege contradictions in official accounts ignore contradictions in their own accounts, citing research from the University of Kent that conspiracy theorists selectively focus on or ignore particular details in order to fit their preferred narrative. The conspiracy theories have also been called evidence of \"the need for a national debate on mental illness.\"\n\nThe debunking website Snopes ran an editorial debunking the \"Sandy Hook Exposed\" video, explaining how many of the theories make little sense, and answered many questions conspiracy theorists wanted answers to.\n\nGene Rosen, a Newtown resident who was reported to have sheltered six Sandy Hook students and a bus driver in his home during the shooting, has been subject to harassment online alleging he was complicit in a government coverup, among other things. Some journalists have cited such incidents as part of a \"Sandy Hook Truther Movement\" analogous to the 9/11 Truth movement. A writer for the \"Calgary Herald\" reported that the movement self-identifies as \"Operation Terror.\"\n\nIn May 2014, 28-year-old Andrew David Truelove stole a memorial sign from playgrounds dedicated to victims Grace McDonnell and Chase Kowalski. He then went on to call the parents of Grace McDonnell, proclaiming that he stole the sign and that he believed their deaths were a \"hoax\". He was arrested on May 30, and the signs were found in his home. Truelove was convicted of the theft and sentenced to 12 months in prison.\n\nRobbie Parker, the father of victim Emilie Parker – after doing a CNN interview on the day after the shooting – became the target of conspiracy theorists, who claimed the interview was staged. Parker has been attacked by theorists who believe he is a \"crisis actor\" and was \"getting into character\" before going on CNN to grieve over the loss of his child.\n\nIn April 2016, Matthew Mills, a 32-year-old man from Brooklyn, accepted a plea agreement with prosecutors on one count of interfering with police arising from an incident in November 2015, when Mills angrily approached the sister of murdered teacher Victoria Soto—who is regarded as a heroine for her attempt to protect her students from the shooter in the Sandy Hook attack—shoved a photograph in her face, \"and began angrily charging that not only did the Sandy Hook tragedy not take place, but that Victoria Soto never existed.\" Mills entered an \"Alford\" plea and was thus found guilty; he was given a suspended sentence of one year in jail and two years' probation.\n\nIn December 2016, Lucy Richards, a 57-year-old woman from Tampa, was charged with four counts of transmitting threats in interstate commerce for sending death threats to Lenny Pozner, whose son Noah was the youngest of 20 children murdered. Pozner has been particularly targeted by Internet trolls and conspiracy theorists because he has vocally fought back against them. Richards had been expected to plead guilty to one count of transmitting threats, with both the prosecution and defense to recommend a sentence of probation and house arrest. However, in March 2017, Richards—who was free on bond—failed to show up to court for a change-of-plea hearing and sentencing. An arrest warrant was issued, Richards' bond was revoked, and she was soon apprehended. On June 7, 2017, Richards was sentenced to five months' imprisonment.\n\nLenny Pozner, the father of Sandy Hook victim Noah Pozner, founded an organization called HONR, which takes legal action against harassers of Sandy Hook survivors and families.\n\n"}
{"id": "30920628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30920628", "title": "Sane Jaleh", "text": "Sane Jaleh\n\nSane Jaleh (, \"Sāne jāle\") also Sanea Jaleh, Saneh Jaleh, or Sani Zhaleh (May 22, 1985 – February 14, 2011) was an Iranian student at the University of Arts. He was one of two students shot dead during the February 14, 2011 demonstrations in support of Egyptians and Tunisians for ousting Presidents Hosni Mubarak and Ben Ali, in Tehran, Iran. According to news reports, \"rival groups\" of pro- and anti-Islamic government protesters \"both claim\" him and the other slain protester (Mohammad Mokhtari) \"as one of their supporters.\"\n\nSane Jaleh was born in Paveh in Kermanshah Province in Iranian Kurdistan in 1985 and was a Kurdish Hewrami Iranian and Sunni Muslim. At the time of his death he was in his third year of studies in the field of dramatic arts at the Department of Cinema and Theater at the University of Arts, Tehran.\n\nOn Tuesday February 15, the day after his killing, the Iranian \"culture ministry's security chief\" reported his death and stated that he was a \"government supporter.\" Other pro-government news media sources reported he was a \"Basij militia member\" (a group of \"plain clothes\" Islamic militants noted for their attacks on opposition demonstrators with batons, metal chains and firearms) \"shot by \"agents provocateurs\" controlled by various opposition groups\". Pro-government sources also alleged he was killed by the opposition group Mojahedin Khalgh. On Wednesday his funeral was held with a funeral process starting at Tehran University where the state-run IRIB reported clashes by marchers with \"the sedition movement,\" i.e. opposition. Hossein Shariatmadari, the editor of Kayhan newspaper (which is under the supervision of the Office of the Supreme Leader), explained Jaleh's involvement in the opposition protest by asserting he was a spy for Kayhan newspaper, a claim considered \"bizarre\" by some.\n\n\"Friends and classmates\" of Jaleh, have responded with a \"counteroffensive\" denying he was either a member of the Basij or a supporter of the government. Kalameh website has stated that Jaleh was a member of Mir-Hossein Mousavi's election campaign team; Saham News Website has published a picture with Ayatollah Montazeri and claims that one of the men in the picture is Sane Jaleh. Jaleh's alleged pro-regime outlook also does not square with his publishing of \"at least one short story\" in a magazine (Azma) \"accused in some quarters of being a part of the `soft war` against the Islamic Republic\"; his appearance in a short film (A Brick in the Wall) currently banned by Iranian regime due to its dissident contents; and his Kurdish and Sunni background (neither group being known for its support of the Islamic Republic). \nAccording to the source Tehran Bureau, the official version appeared to resemble the \"well-orchestrated disinformation operation\" employed by the government \"to blame anyone but its security forces for the death of Neda Agha Soltan during the unrest of 2009.\" Suspicion has been cast on official reports of Jaleh's death by the evolution its portrayal of Jaleh first simply as a \"devout student,\" then as a \"regime sympathizer,\" and finally as a \"full-fledged Basij militia member\". The claim of his membership in the Basij was made in a statement about his death by the president of the Arts University, though in an earlier report of Jaleh's death the head of public relations for the Student Basij was quoted and made no mention of Jaleh's alleged Basij membership.\n\nA photo of Jaleh's alleged Basiji ID was published by Fars News Agency but came under question when a blogger \"wrote that the stamp on the photo bore the name of the town of Paveh, but that the back of the card had a postal code for Tehran.\" The card also \"had a higher serial number than those issued two years ago\" despite the fact that it was dated for three years ago.\n\nIn an interview with Voice of America, Persian, Sane Jaleh's brother stated that the government's allegations are false and without merit. He also said that his family has been put under pressure by the Iranian government to cooperate. He added that Mr. Jaleh’s Basiji Identification Card was issued after his death with the help of his cousin, who works for the Ministry of Information. He further added that the regime did not hand over his brother’s body to the family and that he is being buried by his murderers. Mr. Jaleh’s brother was arrested after his interview with Voice of America, Persian, and is currently in prison in the town of Paveh, in Kurdistan, Iran.\n\nAccording to the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, a Wednesday 16 February funeral procession and memorial service planned for Sane Jaleh by his classmates at the Arts University campus was taken over by the Basij with \"about 40 to 50\" of Jaleh's classmates being \"pushed ... into a corner\", and held until they were told to \"leave quietly and silently.\" A few were arrested. The BBC reported that \"police forces had blocked all the roads leading to the university\" the day of the funeral, \"and were only allowing in pro-government supporters.\"\n\nOn February 20 antigovernment protesters gathered in Tehran and some other parts of Iran to Iran to commemorate the deaths of Jaleh and the other protestor (Mohammad Mokhtari) killed on February 14. According to the New York Times, \"shops in Mahabad and Sanandaj were closed\" after Kurds called for a general strike in response to the death of Jaleh. Yet another protester, Hamed Nour-Mohammadi, was killed on February 20 when \"thousands took to the streets of Iran's largest cities\", according to Human Rights Watch \"to commemorate the deaths of Saneh Jaleh\", and Mohammad Mokhtar. Nour-Mohammadi, was killed in Shiraz.\n\n"}
{"id": "1965365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1965365", "title": "Shoulder dystocia", "text": "Shoulder dystocia\n\nShoulder dystocia is when, after delivery of the head, the baby's anterior shoulder gets caught above the mother's pubic bone. Signs include retraction of the babies head back into the vagina, known as \"turtle sign\". Complications for the baby may include brachial plexus injury or clavicle fracture. Complications for the mother may include vaginal or perineal tears, postpartum bleeding, or uterine rupture.\nRisk factors include gestational diabetes, previous history of the condition, operative vaginal delivery, obesity in the mother, an overly large baby, and epidural anesthesia. It is diagnosed when the body fails to deliver within one minute of delivery of the baby's head. It is a type of obstructed labour.\nShoulder dystocia is an obstetric emergency. Initial efforts to release a shoulder typically include: with a woman on her back pushing the legs outward and upward, pushing on the abdomen above the pubic bone, and making a cut in the vagina. If these are not effective efforts to manually rotate the babies shoulders or placing the women on all fours may be tried. Shoulder dystocia occurs in approximately 0.4% to 1.4% of vaginal births. Death as a result of shoulder dystonia is very uncommon.\n\nOne characteristic of a minority of shoulder dystocia deliveries is the turtle sign, which involves the appearance and retraction of the baby's head (analogous to a turtle withdrawing into its shell), and a red, puffy face. This occurs when the baby's shoulder is obstructed by the maternal pelvis.\n\nOne complication of shoulder dystocia is damage to the upper brachial plexus nerves. These supply the sensory and motor components of the shoulder, arm and hands. The ventral roots (motor pathway) are most prone to injury. The cause of injury to the baby is debated, but a probable mechanism is manual stretching of the nerves, which in itself can cause injury. Excess tension may physically tear the nerve roots out from the neonatal spinal column, resulting in total dysfunction.\n\n\nAbout 16% of deliveries where shoulder dystocia occurs have conventional risk factors. These include diabetes, fetal macrosomia, and maternal obesity.\n\nRisk factors:\n\nFactors which increase the risk/are warning signs:\n\nRecurrence rates are relatively high (if you had shoulder dystocia in a previous delivery the risk is now 10% higher than in the general population).\n\nThe steps to treating a shoulder dystocia are outlined by the mnemonic ALARMER:\n\nTypically the procedures are performed in the order listed and the sequence ends whenever a technique is successful. Intentional fracturing the clavicle is another possibility at nonoperative vaginal delivery prior to Zavanelli's maneuver or symphysiotomy, both of which are considered extraordinary treatment measures. Pushing on the fundus is not recommended.\n\nSimulation training of health care providers to prevent delays in delivery when a shoulder dystocia prevents is useful.\n\nA number of labor positions and maneuvers are sequentially performed in attempt to facilitate delivery. These include:\n\n\n\nMore drastic maneuvers include \n\nAlthough the definition is imprecise, it occurs in approximately 0.3-1% of vaginal births.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324040", "title": "Sperm", "text": "Sperm\n\nSperm is the male reproductive cell and is derived from the Greek word (σπέρμα) \"sperma\" (meaning \"seed\"). In the types of sexual reproduction known as anisogamy and its subtype oogamy, there is a marked difference in the size of the gametes with the smaller one being termed the \"male\" or sperm cell. A uniflagellar sperm cell that is motile is referred to as a spermatozoon, whereas a non-motile sperm cell is referred to as a spermatium. Sperm cells cannot divide and have a limited life span, but after fusion with egg cells during fertilization, a new organism begins developing, starting as a totipotent zygote. The human sperm cell is haploid, so that its 23 chromosomes can join the 23 chromosomes of the female egg to form a diploid cell. In mammals, sperm develops in the testicles, is stored in the epididymis, and released from the penis.\n\nThe main sperm function is to reach the ovum and fuse with it to deliver two sub-cellular structures: (i) the male pronucleus that contains the genetic material and (ii) the centrioles that are structures that help organize the microtubule cytoskeleton.\n\nThe mammalian sperm cell can be divided in 4 parts:\n\nDuring fertilization, the sperm provides three essential parts to the oocyte: (1) a signalling or activating factor, which causes the metabolically dormant oocyte to activate; (2) the haploid paternal genome; (3) the centriole, which is responsible for forming the centrosome and microtubule system.\n\nThe spermatozoa of animals are produced through spermatogenesis inside the male gonads (testicles) via meiotic division. The initial spermatozoon process takes around 70 days to complete. The spermatid stage is where the sperm develops the familiar tail. The next stage where it becomes fully mature takes around 60 days when it is called a spermatozoan.\nSperm cells are carried out of the male body in a fluid known as semen. Human sperm cells can survive within the female reproductive tract for more than 5 days post coitus. Semen is produced in the seminal vesicles, prostate gland and urethral glands.\n\nIn 2016 scientists at Nanjing Medical University claimed they had produced cells resembling mouse spermatids artificially from stem cells. They injected these spermatids into mouse eggs and produced pups.\n\nSperm quantity and quality are the main parameters in semen quality, which is a measure of the ability of semen to accomplish fertilization. Thus, in humans, it is a measure of fertility in a man. The genetic quality of sperm, as well as its volume and motility, all typically decrease with age. (See paternal age effect.)\n\nDNA damages present in sperm cells in the period after meiosis but before fertilization may be repaired in the fertilized egg, but if not repaired, can have serious deleterious effects on fertility and the developing embryo. Human sperm cells are particularly vulnerable to free radical attack and the generation of oxidative DNA damage. (see e.g. 8-Oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine)\n\nThe postmeiotic phase of mouse spermatogenesis is very sensitive to environmental genotoxic agents, because as male germ cells form mature sperm they progressively lose the ability to repair DNA damage. Irradiation of male mice during late spermatogenesis can induce damage that persists for at least 7 days in the fertilizing sperm cells, and disruption of maternal DNA double-strand break repair pathways increases sperm cell-derived chromosomal aberrations. Treatment of male mice with melphalan, a bifunctional alkylating agent frequently employed in chemotherapy, induces DNA lesions during meiosis that may persist in an unrepaired state as germ cells progress though DNA repair-competent phases of spermatogenic development. Such unrepaired DNA damages in sperm cells, after fertilization, can lead to offspring with various abnormalities.\n\nRelated to sperm quality is sperm size, at least in some animals. For instance, the sperm of some species of fruit fly (\"Drosophila\") are up to 5.8 cm long — about 20 times as long as the fly itself. Longer sperm cells are better than their shorter counterparts at displacing competitors from the female’s seminal receptacle. The benefit to females is that only healthy males carry ‘good’ genes that can produce long sperm in sufficient quantities to outcompete their competitors.\n\nSome sperm banks hold up to of sperm.\n\nIn addition to ejaculation, it is possible to extract sperm through TESE.\n\nOn the global market, Denmark has a well-developed system of human sperm export. This success mainly comes from the reputation of Danish sperm donors for being of high quality and, in contrast with the law in the other Nordic countries, gives donors the choice of being either anonymous or non-anonymous to the receiving couple. Furthermore, Nordic sperm donors tend to be tall and highly educated and have altruistic motives for their donations, partly due to the relatively low monetary compensation in Nordic countries. More than 50 countries worldwide are importers of Danish sperm, including Paraguay, Canada, Kenya, and Hong Kong. However, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the US has banned import of any sperm, motivated by a risk of transmission of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, although such a risk is insignificant, since artificial insemination is very different from the route of transmission of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease. The prevalence of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease for donors is at most one in a million, and if the donor was a carrier, the infectious proteins would still have to cross the blood-testis barrier to make transmission possible.\n\nSperm were first observed in 1677 by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek using a microscope, he described them as being animalcules (little animals), probably due to his belief in preformationism, which thought that each sperm contained a fully formed but small human.\n\nEjaculated fluids are detected by ultraviolet light, irrespective of the structure or colour of the surface. Sperm heads, e.g. from vaginal swabs, are still detected by microscopy using the \"Christmas Tree Stain\" method, i.e., Kernechtrot-Picroindigocarmine (KPIC) staining.\n\nSperm cells in algal and many plant gametophytes are produced in male gametangia (antheridia) via mitotic division. In flowering plants, sperm nuclei are produced inside pollen.\n\nMotile sperm cells typically move via flagella and require a water medium in order to swim toward the egg for fertilization. In animals most of the energy for sperm motility is derived from the metabolism of fructose carried in the seminal fluid. This takes place in the mitochondria located in the sperm's midpiece (at the base of the sperm head). These cells cannot swim backwards due to the nature of their propulsion. The uniflagellated sperm cells (with one flagellum) of animals are referred to as spermatozoa, and are known to vary in size.\n\nMotile sperm are also produced by many protists and the gametophytes of bryophytes, ferns and some gymnosperms such as cycads and ginkgo. The sperm cells are the only flagellated cells in the life cycle of these plants. In many ferns and lycophytes, they are multi-flagellated (carrying more than one flagellum).\n\nIn nematodes, the sperm cells are amoeboid and crawl, rather than swim, towards the egg cell.\n\nNon-motile sperm cells called spermatia lack flagella and therefore cannot swim. Spermatia are produced in a spermatangium.\n\nBecause spermatia cannot swim, they depend on their environment to carry them to the egg cell. Some red algae, such as \"Polysiphonia\", produce non-motile spermatia that are spread by water currents after their release. The spermatia of rust fungi are covered with a sticky substance. They are produced in flask-shaped structures containing nectar, which attract flies that transfer the spermatia to nearby hyphae for fertilization in a mechanism similar to insect pollination in flowering plants.\n\nFungal spermatia (also called pycniospores, especially in the Uredinales) may be confused with conidia. Conidia are spores that germinate independently of fertilization, whereas spermatia are gametes that are required for fertilization. In some fungi, such as \"Neurospora crassa\", spermatia are identical to microconidia as they can perform both functions of fertilization as well as giving rise to new organisms without fertilization.\n\nIn almost all embryophytes, including most gymnosperms and all angiosperms, the male gametophytes (pollen grains) are the primary mode of dispersal, for example via wind or insect pollination, eliminating the need for water to bridge the gap between male and female. Each pollen grain contains a spermatogenous (generative) cell. Once the pollen lands on the stigma of a receptive flower, it germinates and starts growing a pollen tube through the carpel. Before the tube reaches the ovule, the nucleus of the generative cell in the pollen grain divides and gives rise to two sperm nuclei, which are then discharged through the tube into the ovule for fertilization.\n\nIn some protists, fertilization also involves sperm nuclei, rather than cells, migrating toward the egg cell through a fertilization tube. Oomycetes form sperm nuclei in a syncytical antheridium surrounding the egg cells. The sperm nuclei reach the eggs through fertilization tubes, similar to the pollen tube mechanism in plants.\n\nMost sperm cells have centrioles in the sperm neck. Sperm of many animals has 2 typical centrioles known as the proximal centriole and distal centriole. Some animals like human and bovine have a single typical centriole, known as the proximal centriole, and a second centriole with atypical structure. Mice and rats have no recognizable sperm centrioles. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has a single centriole and an atypical centriole named the Proximal Centriole-Like (PCL).\n\nThe sperm tail is a specialized type of cilium (aka flagella). In many animals the sperm tail is formed in a unique way, which is named Cytosolic ciliogenesis, since all or part of axoneme of the sperm tail is formed in the cytoplasm or get exposed to the cytoplasm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39549648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39549648", "title": "Suicide in Bhutan", "text": "Suicide in Bhutan\n\nSuicide in Bhutan in recent years has become a notable phenomenon in the small Himalayan kingdom, which promotes Gross National Happiness as a government policy. As the Kingdom of Bhutan adheres to Tibetan Buddhism for its state religion, the mere discussion of suicide and the means of tackling it have been generally seen as socially taboo amongst most Bhutanese.\n\nUnder Bhutanese law, the act of committing suicide is itself not illegal, but abetting a suicide is regarded as a crime. \n\nBased on 2011 data, the official suicide rate of Bhutan was 16.2 per 100,000 people. This figure ranked the kingdom as the 20th-highest suicide rate in the world, and 6th highest in the Asia-Pacific region. The number of recorded deaths has increased by around 50% for the years 2012 and 2013, which places the Himalayan Kingdom among the countries with the highest suicide rates in the world. Lack of job opportunities, the percentage of broken families, and a high rate of domestic violence are considered to be major contributing factors.\n\nAutopsies are not done in Bhutan, and thus the actual suicide rate is likely to be higher than the official rate. Some suicides are reported as \"accidental deaths\".\n\nIn addition, the suicide rate has been widely discussed about Bhutanese refugees who live outside Bhutan, who tend to be of Nepalese origin, as unemployment, lack of family ties and depression ensue.\n\n"}
{"id": "195246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195246", "title": "The Passion of the Christ", "text": "The Passion of the Christ\n\nThe Passion of the Christ (also known simply as The Passion) is a 2004 American biblical drama film directed by Mel Gibson, written by Gibson and Benedict Fitzgerald, and starring Jim Caviezel as Jesus Christ, Maia Morgenstern as the Virgin Mary, and Monica Bellucci as Mary Magdalene. It depicts the Passion of Jesus largely according to the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. It also draws on pious accounts such as the Friday of Sorrows along with other devotional writings, such as the reputed Marian apparitions attributed to Blessed Anne Catherine Emmerich.\n\nThe film primarily covers the final twelve hours of Jesus' life, beginning with the Agony in the Garden of Gethsemane, the insomnia and grievance of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the brutal scourge and crucifixion, ending with a brief depiction of his resurrection. It was shot in Italy, and the dialogue is entirely in reconstructed Aramaic(Jewish dialect), Hebrew, and Latin.\n\nThe film has been controversial and received largely polarised reviews, with some critics calling the film a religious classic while others found the extreme violence distracting and excessive, and claimed that the film subliminally promoted antisemitism. The film grossed $612 million worldwide and was the 9th highest grossing film domestically at the end of its theatrical run. It received three Academy Award nominations in 2005. As of 2018, it is the second highest grossing R-rated film in the United States after Deadpool.\n\nIn the late hours of the night at the forested garden of Gethsemane, Jesus Christ, at the height of his cause, prays while his disciples Peter, James, and John sleep. While he prays in seclusion, Satan appears to Jesus in a hooded ghost-like androgynous, albino form, and tempts him, stating, \"It is not right for one man to die for their (humanity's) sins.\" Jesus' sweat turns into blood and drips to the ground while a serpent emerges from Satan's guise. Jesus hears his disciples call for him, and rebukes Satan by crushing the snake's head.\n\nJudas Iscariot, another of Jesus' disciples, having received a bribe of thirty pieces of silver, leads a group of temple guards to the forest and betrays Jesus' identity. As the guards arrest Jesus, a fight erupts wherein Peter draws his dagger and slashes the ear of Malchus, one of the guards and a servant of the high priest Caiaphas. Jesus heals Malchus' injury while reprimanding Peter. As the disciples flee, the guards secure Jesus, and beat him during the journey to the Sanhedrin.\n\nJohn informs Mary, mother of Jesus and Mary Magdalene of the arrest, while Peter follows Jesus and his captors. Magdalene begs a passing Roman patrol to intervene but a temple guard assures them that she is unbalanced. Caiaphas holds trial over the objection of some of the other priests, who are expelled from the court. False accusations and witnesses are brought against him. When asked by Caiaphas whether he is the Son of God, Jesus replies, \"I am\". Caiaphas tears his robes in outrage and Jesus is condemned to death for blasphemy. Peter is confronted by the surrounding mob for being a follower of Jesus. After cursing at the mob during the third denial, Peter flees when he recalls Jesus's forewarning of his defense. A guilt-ridden Judas attempts to return the money he was paid in order to have Jesus freed, but is refused by the priests. Tormented by demons, he flees the city and hangs himself.\n\nCaiaphas brings Jesus before Pontius Pilate to be condemned to death, but at the urging of Pilate's wife Claudia, who knows of Jesus' status as a man of God, and after questioning Jesus and finding no fault, Pilate transfers him to the court of Herod Antipas, as Jesus is from Antipas' ruling town of Nazareth, Galilee. After Jesus is found not guilty and returned, Pilate offers the crowd the choice of chastising Jesus or releasing him. He attempts to have Jesus freed by the peoples' choice between Jesus and violent criminal Barabbas. The crowd demands Barabbas be freed and Jesus crucified. Attempting to appease the crowd, Pilate orders that Jesus simply be flogged. Jesus is scourged, abused, and mocked by the Roman guards. They take him to a barn where they place a crown of thorns on his head and tease him saying “Hail, king of the Jews”. A bruised Jesus is presented before Pilate, but Caiaphas, with the crowds' verbal backing, continues demanding that Jesus be crucified and Barabbas released. Pilate washes his hands of the affair, and orders Jesus' crucifixion. Satan observes Jesus' sufferings with sadistic pleasure. \nAs Jesus carries a heavy wooden cross along the Via Dolorosa to Calvary, a woman avoids the escort of soldiers and requests that Jesus wipe his face with her cloth, to which he consents. She offers Jesus a pot of water to drink but the guard hurls it away and dispels her. During the journey to Golgotha, Jesus is beaten by the guards until the unwilling Simon of Cyrene is forced into carrying the cross with him. At the end of their journey, with his mother Mary, Mary Magdalene, and others witnessing, Jesus is crucified. \n\nHanging from the cross, Jesus prays to God asking forgiveness for the people who tormented him, and provides salvation to a criminal crucified beside him, for his strong faith and repentance. Succumbing to impending death, Jesus surrenders his spirit to the Father and dies. A single droplet of rain falls from the sky to the ground, triggering an earthquake which destroys the temple and rips the veil covering the Holy of Holies in two. Satan screams in defeat from the depths of Hell. Jesus' body is taken down from the cross and entombed. Jesus rises from the dead and exits the tomb resurrected, with wound holes visible on his palms.\n\n\nIn \"The Passion: Photography from the Movie \"The Passion of the Christ\"\", director Mel Gibson says, \"This is a movie about love, hope, faith and forgiveness. He [Jesus] died for all mankind, suffered for all of us. It's time to get back to that basic message. The world has gone nuts. We could all use a little more love, faith, hope and forgiveness.\"\n\nAccording to Mel Gibson, the primary source material for \"The Passion of the Christ\" is the four canonical Gospel narratives of Christ's passion. The film includes a trial of Jesus at Herod's court, which is only found in the Gospel of Luke. Many of the utterances from Jesus in the film cannot be directly sourced to the Gospel and are part of a wider Christian narrative. The film also draws from other parts of the New Testament. One line spoken by Jesus in the film (\"I make all things new.\") is found in the Book of Revelation.\n\nThe film also refers to the Tanakh (also known as the Old Testament). The film begins with an epigraph from the Fourth Song of the Suffering Servant from Isaiah. In the opening scene set in the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus crushes a serpent's head in direct visual allusion to Genesis 3:15. Throughout the film, Jesus quotes from the Psalms, beyond the instances recorded in the New Testament.\n\nMany of the depictions in the film deliberately mirror traditional representations of the Passion in art. For example, the fourteen Stations of the Cross are central to the depiction of the Via Dolorosa in \"The Passion of the Christ.\" All the stations are portrayed except for the eighth station (Jesus meets the women of Jerusalem, a deleted scene on the DVD) and the fourteenth station (Jesus is laid in the tomb). Gibson was also visually inspired by the representation of Jesus on the Shroud of Turin.\n\nAt the suggestion of actress Maia Morgenstern, the Passover Seder is quoted early in the film. Mary asks, \"Why is this night different from other nights?\", and Mary Magdalene replies with the traditional response: \"Because once we were slaves, and we are slaves no longer\".\n\nThe conflation of Mary Magdalene with the adulteress saved from stoning by Jesus has some precedent in tradition, and according to the director was done for dramatic reasons. The names of some characters in the film are traditional and extra-Scriptural, such as the thieves crucified alongside the Christ, Dismas and Gesmas (also Gestas).\n\nScreenwriters Gibson and Benedict Fitzgerald said that they read many accounts of Christ's Passion for inspiration, including the devotional writings of Roman Catholic mystics. A principal source is \"The Dolorous Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ\" the visions of the stigmatic German nun Anne Catherine Emmerich (1774–1824), as written by the poet Clemens Brentano. A careful reading of Emmerich's book shows the film's high level of dependence on it.\n\nHowever, Brentano's attribution of the book \"The Dolorous Passion\" to Emmerich has been subject to dispute, with allegations that Brentano wrote much of the book himself; a Vatican investigation concluding that: \"It is absolutely not certain that she ever wrote this\". In his review of the movie in the Catholic publication \"America\", Jesuit priest John O' Malley used the terms \"devout fiction\" and \"well-intentioned fraud\" to refer to the writings of Clemens Brentano.\n\nGibson originally announced that he would use two old languages without subtitles and rely on \"filmic storytelling\". Because the story of the Passion is so well known, Gibson felt the need to avoid vernacular languages in order to surprise audiences: \"I think it's almost counterproductive to say some of these things in a modern language. It makes you want to stand up and shout out the next line, like when you hear 'To be or not to be' and you instinctively say to yourself, 'That is the question.'\" The script was written in English by Gibson and Benedict Fitzgerald, then translated by William Fulco, S.J., a professor at Loyola Marymount University, into Latin and reconstructed Aramaic. Gibson chose to use Latin instead of Greek, which was the lingua franca of that particular part of the Roman Empire at the time, since there is no source for the Koine Greek spoken in that region. The street Greek spoken in the ancient Levant region of Jesus' day is not the exact Greek language used in the Bible. Fulco sometimes incorporated deliberate errors in pronunciations and word endings when the characters were speaking a language unfamiliar to them, and some of the crude language used by the Roman soldiers was not translated in the subtitles.\n\nThe film was produced independently and shot in Italy, primarily at Cinecittà Studios in Rome, in the old city of Matera, and in the ghost town of Craco (Basilicata). The estimated US$30 million production cost, plus an additional estimated $15 million in marketing costs, were fully borne by Gibson and his company, Icon Productions. According to the DVD special feature, Martin Scorsese had recently finished his film, \"Gangs of New York\", and Gibson and his production designers constructed part of their set using Scorsese's set. This saved Gibson a lot of time and money.\n\nGibson's film was released on Ash Wednesday, February 25, 2004. Icon Entertainment distributed the theatrical version of the film, and 20th Century Fox distributed the VHS/DVD/Blu-ray version of the film.\n\nGibson consulted several theological advisers during filming, including Fr. Jonathan Morris. During filming, assistant director Jan Michelini was struck twice by lightning. Minutes later, Jim Caviezel was also struck.\n\nThree albums were released with Mel Gibson's co-operation: (1) the film soundtrack of John Debney's original orchestral score conducted by Nick Ingman; (2) \"\", by producers Mark Joseph and Tim Cook, with original compositions by various artists, and (3) \"The Passion of the Christ: Songs Inspired By\". The first two albums each received a 2005 Dove award, and the soundtrack received an Academy Award nomination of Best Original Music Score.\n\nA preliminary score was composed and recorded by Lisa Gerrard and Patrick Cassidy, but was incomplete at film's release. Jack Lenz was the primary musical researcher and one of the composers; several clips of his compositions have been posted online.\n\nAlthough Mel Gibson wanted to call his film \"The Passion\", on October 16, 2003, his spokesman announced that the title used in the United States would be \"The Passion of Christ\" because Miramax Films had already registered the title \"The Passion\" with the MPAA for the 1987 novel by Jeanette Winterson. Later, the title was changed again to \"The Passion of the Christ\" for all markets.\n\nGibson began production on his film without securing outside funding or distribution. In 2002, he explained why he could not get backing from the Hollywood studios: \"This is a film about something that nobody wants to touch, shot in two dead languages. In Los Angeles they think I am insane, and maybe I am.\" Gibson and his Icon Productions company provided the film's sole backing, spending about $30 million on production costs and an estimated $15 million on marketing. After early accusations of anti-Semitism, it became difficult for Gibson to find an American distribution company. 20th Century Fox had a first-look deal with Icon and passed on the film in response to public protests. In order to avoid the spectacle of other studios turning down the film and to avoid subjecting the distributor to the same intense public criticism he had received, Gibson decided to distribute the movie in the United States himself, with Newmarket Films.\n\nGibson departed from the usual film marketing formula. He employed a small-scale television advertising campaign with no press junkets. \"The Passion of the Christ\" was heavily promoted by many church groups, both within their organizations and to the public. The United Methodist Church stated that many of its members, like other Christians, felt that the movie was a good way to evangelize non-believers. As a result, many congregations planned to be at the theaters, and some set up tables to answer questions and share prayers. Rev. John Tanner, pastor of Cove United Methodist Church, Hampton Cove, Alabama has said: \"They feel the film presents a unique opportunity to share Christianity in a way today's public can identify with.\"\n\n\"The Passion of the Christ\" received enthusiastic support from the American evangelical community. Before the film's release, Gibson actively reached out to evangelical leaders seeking their support and feedback. With their help, Gibson organized and attended a series of prerelease screenings for evangelical audiences and discussed the making of the film and his personal faith. In June 2003 he screened the film for 800 pastors attending a leadership conference at New Life Church, pastored by Ted Haggard, then president of the National Association of Evangelicals. Gibson gave similar showings at Joel Osteen's Lakewood Church, Greg Laurie's Harvest Christian Fellowship, and to 3,600 pastors at a conference at Rick Warren's Saddleback Church in Lake Forest. From the summer of 2003 to the film's release in February 2004, portions or rough cuts of the film were shown to over eighty audiences—many of which were evangelical audiences. Gibson received numerous public endorsements from evangelical leaders, including Billy Graham, Robert Schuller, Darrell Bock, and David Neff, editor of \"Christianity Today\". Public endorsements of the film were received from evangelical leaders Pat Robertson, Rick Warren, Lee Strobel, Jerry Falwell, Max Lucado, Tim LaHaye and Chuck Colson.\n\n\"The Passion of the Christ\" opened in the United States on February 25, 2004 (Ash Wednesday, the beginning of Lent). It earned $83,848,082 in its opening weekend, ranking it fourth overall in domestic opening weekend earnings for 2004 as well as the biggest weekend debut for a February release (until \"Fifty Shades of Grey\" was released). It went on to earn $370,782,930 overall in the United States, and remained the highest grossing R-rated film in the domestic market. (U.S. & Canada). The film sold an estimated 59,625,500 tickets in the US in its initial theatrical run.\n\nIn Malaysia, government censors initially banned it completely, but after Christian leaders protested, the restriction was lifted, but only for Christian audiences, allowing them to view the film in specially designated theatres. In Israel, the film was not banned. However, it never received theatrical distribution because no Israeli distributor would market the movie.\n\nDespite the various controversies and refusals of certain governments to allow the film to be viewed in wide release, \"The Passion of the Christ\" earned $611,899,420 worldwide. The film was also a relative success in certain countries with large Muslim populations, such as in Egypt, where it ranked 20th overall in its box office numbers for 2004. The film was the highest grossing non-English-language film of all time until 2017, when it was surpassed by \"Wolf Warrior 2\".\n\nAn edited version titled \"The Passion Recut\" was released on March 11, 2005, with five minutes of the most explicit violence deleted to broaden the audience. Gibson explained his reasoning for the new version of the film: \n\nDespite the attempt to tone down the content, the Motion Picture Association of America still deemed the film too violent to rate PG-13, so Gibson released it as unrated. The re-release showed for three weeks.\n\nOn August 31, 2004, the film was released on DVD, VHS, and later D-VHS in North America by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment. As with the original theatrical release, the film's release on home video formats proved to be very popular. Early reports indicated that over 2.4 million copies of the film were sold by the middle of the day. The film was available on DVD with English and Spanish subtitles and on VHS tape with English subtitles. The film was released on Blu-ray in North America as a two-disc Definitive Edition set on February 17, 2009. It was also released on Blu-ray in Australia a week before Easter.\n\nAlthough the original DVD release sold well, it contained no extra materials other than soundtrack language selections. The no-frills edition provoked speculation about when a special edition would be released. On January 30, 2007, a two-disc Definitive Edition was released in the North American markets, and March 26 elsewhere. It contains several documentaries, soundtrack commentaries, deleted scenes, outtakes, the 2005 unrated version, and the original 2004 theatrical version.\n\nThe British version of the two-disc DVD contains two additional deleted scenes. In the first, Jesus meets the women of Jerusalem (at the eighth station of the cross) and falls to the ground as the women wail around him, and Simon of Cyrene attempts to hold up the cross and help up Jesus simultaneously. Afterwards, while both are holding up the cross, Jesus says to the women weeping for him, \"Do not weep for me, but for yourselves and for your children\". In the second, Pilate washes his hands, turns to Caiaphas, and says: \"Look you to it\" (i.e., the Pharisees wish to have Jesus crucified). Pilate then turns to Abanader and says: \"Do as they wish\". The scene next shows Pilate calling to his servant, who is carrying a wooden board on which Pilate writes, \"Jesus of Nazareth king of the Jews\", in Latin and Hebrew. He then holds the board above his head in full view of Caiaphas, who after reading it challenges Pilate on its content. Pilate replies angrily to Caiaphas in non-subtitled Hebrew. The disc contains only two deleted scenes in total. No other scenes from the movie are shown on disc 2.\n\nOn February 7, 2017, 20th Century Fox re-released the film on Blu-ray and DVD featuring both cuts. Only the original theatrical version is dubbed in English and Spanish; this marks the first time the film has ever been dubbed in another language.\n\nOn April 17, 2011 (Palm Sunday), Trinity Broadcasting Network (TBN) presented the film at 7:30 pm ET/PT, with multiple showings scheduled. The network has continued to air the film throughout the year, and particularly around Easter.\n\nOn March 29, 2013 (Good Friday), as a part of their special Holy Week programming, TV5 presented the Filipino-dubbed version of the film at 2:00 pm (PST, UTC+8) in the Philippines. Its total broadcast ran for two hours, but excluding the advertisements, it would only run up for approximately one hour instead of its full run time of two hours and six minutes. It ended exactly at 4:00 p.m. It has been rated SPG by the Movie and Television Review and Classification Board (MTRCB) for themes, language and violence with some scenes censored for television. TV5 is the first broadcast network outside of the United States and dubbed the Vernacular Hebrew and Latin language to Filipino (through translating its supplied English subtitles).\n\n\"The Passion of the Christ\" polarized critics: Jim Caviezel's performance, the musical score, the sound, the makeup, and the cinematography were praised, while the film's graphic violence and alleged antisemitic undertones were singled out for criticism. On the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 49% based on 275 reviews, with an average rating of 5.9/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"The graphic details of Jesus' torture make the movie tough to sit through and obscure whatever message it is trying to convey.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 47 out of 100 based on 43 critics, indicating \"mixed or average\" reviews. CinemaScore reported that audiences gave the film a rare \"A+\" grade.\n\nIn a positive review for \"Time\", Richard Corliss called \"The Passion of the Christ\" \"a serious, handsome, excruciating film that radiates total commitment.\" \"New York Press\" film critic Armond White praised Gibson's direction, comparing him to Carl Theodor Dreyer in how he transformed art into spirituality. Roger Ebert from the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the movie four out of four stars, calling it \"the most violent film I have ever seen\" as well as reflecting on how the film personally impacted him as a former altar boy saying \"What Gibson has provided for me, for the first time in my life, is a visceral idea of what the Passion consisted of. That his film is superficial in terms of the surrounding message -- that we get only a few passing references to the teachings of Jesus -- is, I suppose, not the point. This is not a sermon or a homily, but a visualization of the central event in the Christian religion. Take it or leave it.\" In a negative review, \"Slate\" magazine's David Edelstein called it \"a two-hour-and-six-minute snuff movie\", while Jami Bernard of the \"New York Daily News\" felt it was \"the most virulently anti-Semitic movie made since the German propaganda films of World War II\". Writing for the \"Dallas Observer\", Robert Wilonsky said he found the movie \"too turgid to awe the nonbelievers, too zealous to inspire and often too silly to take seriously, with its demonic hallucinations that look like escapees from a David Lynch film; I swear I couldn't find the devil carrying around a hairy-backed midget anywhere in the text I read.\"\n\nThe June 2006 issue of \"Entertainment Weekly\" named \"The Passion of the Christ\" the most controversial film of all time, followed by Stanley Kubrick's \"A Clockwork Orange\" (1971). In 2010, \"Time\" listed it as one of the most \"ridiculously violent\" films of all time.\n\nA number of independent websites such as \"MyLifeAfter.com\" and \"Passion-Movie.com\" were launched to promote the film and its message and to allow people to discuss the film's effect on their lives. Documentaries such as \"Changed Lives: Miracles of the Passion\" chronicled stories of miraculous savings, forgiveness, new-found faith, and the story of a man who confessed to murdering his girlfriend after authorities determined her death was due to suicide. Another documentary, \"Impact: The Passion of the Christ\", chronicled the popular response of the film in the United States, India, and Japan and examined the claims of antisemitism against Mel Gibson and the film.\n\nWins\n\nNominations\n\nOther honors\nThe film was nominated in the following categories for American Film Institute recognition:\n\nDespite criticisms that Gibson deliberately added material to the historical accounts of first-century Judea and biblical accounts of Christ's crucifixion, some scholars defend the film as not being primarily concerned with historical accuracy. Biblical scholar Mark Goodacre protested that he could not find one documented example of Gibson explicitly claiming the film to be historically accurate. Gibson has been quoted as saying: \"I think that my first duty is to be as faithful as possible in telling the story so that it doesn't contradict the Scriptures. Now, so long as it didn't do that, I felt that I had a pretty wide berth for artistic interpretation, and to fill in some of the spaces with logic, with imagination, with various other readings.\" One such example is a scene in which Satan is seen carrying a demonic baby during Christ's flogging, construed as a perversion of traditional depictions of the Madonna and Child, and also as a representation of Satan and the Antichrist. Gibson's description:\n\nWhen asked about the film's faithfulness to the account given in the New Testament, Father Augustine Di Noia of the Vatican's Doctrinal Congregation replied: \"Mel Gibson's film is not a documentary... but remains faithful to the fundamental structure common to all four accounts [of the Gospels]\" and \"Gibson's film is entirely faithful to the New Testament\".\n\nIn early December 2003, \"Passion of the Christ\" co-producer Stephen McEveety provided the film to Archbishop Stanisław Dziwisz, the pope's secretary. Archbishop Dziwisz returned the film to McEveety and said he had watched it with John Paul II. On December 16, \"Daily Variety\" reported that the pope had seen the film, and on December 17, \"The Wall Street Journal\" columnist Peggy Noonan reported that John Paul II had said: \"It is as it was,\" sourcing McEveety, who said he heard it from Dziwisz. \"National Catholic Reporter\" journalist John Allen published a similar account on the same day, quoting an unnamed senior Vatican official. The following day, Reuters and the Associated Press each independently confirmed the story, citing Vatican sources. On December 24, an anonymous Vatican official told Catholic News Service, \"There was no declaration, no judgment from the pope.\" On January 9, John Allen defended his earlier reporting, saying that his official source was adamant about the veracity of the original story. In a January 18 column, Frank Rich interviewed the Italian translator who quoted Dziwisz as saying that the pope called the film \"incredible\" and said \"it is as it was.\" Rich attacked the marketing of the film and suggested Dziwisz wielded too much influence over the pope. The next day Archbishop Dziwisz told CNS, \"The Holy Father told no one his opinion of this film.\" This denial resulted in a round of commentators who accused the film producers of fabricating a papal quote to market their movie.\n\nHowever, the Icon Productions spokesman stood by the story, and a source close to the situation said McEveety had asked for and received Vatican officials' permission to repeat the \"It is as it was\" statement before speaking to Noonan. Journalist Rod Dreher reported that McEveety had received an e-mail from papal spokesman Dr. Joaquin Navarro-Valls on December 28, backing the Noonan account and ending: \"I would try to make the words 'It is as it was' the leit motive in any discusion on the film. Repeat the words again and again and again.\"\n\nPeggy Noonan had also received e-mail confirmation of the quote from Navarro-Valls before writing her December 17 column. Complicating the situation, Navarro-Valls told Dreher that the e-mail sent to McEveety was not genuine, suggesting it was fabricated. However, Noonan later verified that all of the Navarro-Valls e-mails came from the same Vatican IP address. The \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that they had previously confirmed the accuracy of the quote from Navarro-Valls when the story first broke. On CNN, John Allen reported Vatican sources who claim to have heard Dziwisz on other occasions affirm the accuracy of the quotation.\n\nOn January 22, Navarro-Valls released the following official statement:\nThe film is a cinematographic transposition of the historical event of the Passion of Jesus Christ according to the accounts of the Gospel. It is a common practice of the Holy Father not to express public opinions on artistic works, opinions that are always open to different evaluations of aesthetic character.\nBefore the film was released, there were prominent criticisms of perceived antisemitic content in the film. 20th Century Fox told New York Assemblyman Dov Hikind they had passed on distributing the film in response to a protest outside the News Corporation building. Hikind warned other companies that \"they should not distribute this film. This is unhealthy for Jews all over the world.\"\n\nA joint committee of the Secretariat for Ecumenical and Inter-religious Affairs of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Department of Inter-religious Affairs of the Anti-Defamation League obtained a version of the script before it was released in theaters. They released a statement, calling it one of the most troublesome texts, relative to anti-Semitic potential, that any of us had seen in twenty-five years. It must be emphasized that the main storyline presented Jesus as having been relentlessly pursued by an evil cabal of Jews, headed by the high priest Caiaphas, who finally blackmailed a weak-kneed Pilate into putting Jesus to death. This is precisely the storyline that fueled centuries of anti-Semitism within Christian societies. This is also a storyline rejected by the Roman Catholic Church at Vatican II in its document \"Nostra aetate\", and by nearly all mainline Protestant churches in parallel documents. ... Unless this basic storyline has been altered by Mr. Gibson, a fringe Catholic who is building his own church in the Los Angeles area and who apparently accepts neither the teachings of Vatican II nor modern biblical scholarship, \"The Passion of the Christ\" retains a real potential for undermining the repudiation of classical Christian anti-Semitism by the churches in the last forty years.\n\nThe ADL itself also released a statement about the yet-to-be-released film:\nFor filmmakers to do justice to the biblical accounts of the passion, they must complement their artistic vision with sound scholarship, which includes knowledge of how the passion accounts have been used historically to disparage and attack Jews and Judaism. Absent such scholarly and theological understanding, productions such as \"The Passion\" could likely falsify history and fuel the animus of those who hate Jews. Rabbi Daniel Lapin, the head of the Toward Tradition organization, criticized this statement, and said of Abraham Foxman, the head of the ADL, \"what he is saying is that the only way to escape the wrath of Foxman is to repudiate your faith\".\n\nIn \"The Nation\", reviewer Katha Pollitt said: \"Gibson has violated just about every precept of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops own 1988 'Criteria' for the portrayal of Jews in dramatizations of the Passion (no bloodthirsty Jews, no rabble, no use of Scripture that reinforces negative stereotypes of Jews, etc.) [...] The priests have big noses and gnarly faces, lumpish bodies, yellow teeth; Herod Antipas and his court are a bizarre collection of oily-haired, epicene perverts. The 'good Jews' look like Italian movie stars (Italian sex symbol Monica Bellucci is Mary Magdalene); Jesus's mother, who would have been around 50 and appeared 70, could pass for a ripe 35.\" Jesuit priest Fr. William Fulco, S.J., of Loyola Marymount University—and the film's Hebrew dialogue translator—specifically disagreed with that assessment, and disagreed with concerns that the film accused the Jewish community of deicide.\n\nOne specific scene in the film perceived as an example of anti-Semitism was in the dialogue of Caiaphas, when he states \"His blood [is] on us and on our children!\", a quote historically interpreted by some as a curse taken upon by the Jewish people. Certain Jewish groups asked this be removed from the film. However, only the subtitles were removed; the original dialogue remains in the Hebrew soundtrack. When asked about this scene, Gibson said: \"I wanted it in. My brother said I was wimping out if I didn't include it. But, man, if I included that in there, they'd be coming after me at my house. They'd come to kill me.\" In another interview when asked about the scene, he said, \"It's one little passage, and I believe it, but I don't and never have believed it refers to Jews, and implicates them in any sort of curse. It's directed at all of us, all men who were there, and all that came after. His blood is on us, and that's what Jesus wanted. But I finally had to admit that one of the reasons I felt strongly about keeping it, aside from the fact it's true, is that I didn't want to let someone else dictate what could or couldn't be said.\"\n\nAdditionally, the film's suggestion that the Temple's destruction was a direct result of the Jews' actions towards Jesus could also be interpreted as an offensive take on an event which Jewish tradition views as a tragedy, and which is still mourned by many Jews today on the fast day of Tisha B'Av.\n\nAsked by Bill O'Reilly if his movie would \"upset Jews\", Gibson responded, \"It's not meant to. I think it's meant to just tell the truth. I want to be as truthful as possible.\" In an interview for \"The Globe and Mail\", he added: \"If anyone has distorted Gospel passages to rationalize cruelty towards Jews or anyone, it's in defiance of repeated Papal condemnation. The Papacy has condemned racism in any form. ... Jesus died for the sins of all times, and I'll be the first on the line for culpability\".\n\nConservative columnist Cal Thomas also disagreed with allegations of anti-Semitism, saying \"To those in the Jewish community who worry that the film [...] might contain anti-Semitic elements, or encourage people to persecute Jews, fear not. The film does not indict Jews for the death of Jesus.\" Two Orthodox Jews, Rabbi Daniel Lapin and conservative talk-show host and author Michael Medved, also vocally rejected claims that the film is anti-Semitic. They have noted the film's many sympathetic portrayals of Jews: Simon of Cyrene (who helps Jesus carry the cross), Mary Magdalene, the Virgin Mary, St. Peter, St. John, Veronica (who wipes Jesus' face and offers him water) and several Jewish priests who protest Jesus' arrest (Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea) during Caiaphas' trial of Jesus.\n\nBob Smithouser of Plugged in Online believed that film was trying to convey the evils and sins of humanity rather than specifically targeting Jews, stating: \"The anthropomorphic portrayal of Satan as a player in these events brilliantly pulls the proceedings into the supernatural realm—a fact that should have quelled the much-publicized cries of anti-Semitism since it shows a diabolical force at work beyond any political and religious agendas of the Jews and Romans.\"\n\nMoreover, Senior Vatican officer Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos, who has seen the film, addressed the matter so:\nAnti-Semitism, like all forms of racism, distorts the truth in order to put a whole race of people in a bad light. This film does nothing of the sort. It draws out from the historical objectivity of the Gospel narratives sentiments of forgiveness, mercy, and reconciliation. It captures the subtleties and the horror of sin, as well as the gentle power of love and forgiveness, without making or insinuating blanket condemnations against one group. This film expressed the exact opposite, that learning from the example of Christ, there should never be any more violence against any other human being.\n\n\"South Park\" parodied the controversy in the episodes \"Good Times with Weapons\", \"Up the Down Steroid\" and \"The Passion of the Jew\", all of which aired just a few weeks after the film's release.\n\nSeveral critics were troubled by the film's extensive, detailed violence, and especially cautioned parents to avoid taking their children to the cinema. Film critic Roger Ebert, who gave the film a 4/4 star rating, said in his review:\nThe movie is 126 minutes long, and I would guess that at least 100 of those minutes, maybe more, are concerned specifically and graphically with the details of the torture and death of Jesus. This is the most violent film I have ever seen.\n\nEbert also stated that the R-rated film should have instead been rated NC-17 (an MPAA rating even harsher than the R rating) in a \"Movie Answer Man\" response, adding that no level-minded parent should ever allow children to see it.\n\nFilm historian Michael Gurnow, in an April 2008 cover story for American Atheists, stated much the same, labeling the work a mainstream snuff film.\n\nA. O. Scott, in \"The New York Times\", said: \"\"The Passion of the Christ\" is so relentlessly focused on the savagery of Jesus' final hours that this film seems to arise less from love than from wrath, and to succeed more in assaulting the spirit than in uplifting it.\" David Edelstein, \"Slate\"s film critic, dubbed the film \"a two-hour-and-six-minute snuff movie — \"The Jesus Chainsaw Massacre\" — that thinks it's an act of faith\", and further criticized Gibson for focusing on the brutality of Jesus' execution, instead of his religious teachings.\n\nDuring Diane Sawyer's interview of him, Gibson said:\nI wanted it to be shocking; and I wanted it to be extreme ... So that they see the enormity — the enormity of that sacrifice; to see that someone could endure that and still come back with love and forgiveness, even through extreme pain and suffering and ridicule. The actual crucifixion was more violent than what was shown on the film, but I thought no one would get anything out of it.\n\nIn June 2016, it was announced that Mel Gibson is working on a sequel to \"The Passion of the Christ\", focusing on the resurrection of Jesus. The screenwriter is Randall Wallace, who wrote the screenplay for \"Braveheart\" (1995). Gibson has expressed an interest in directing the film. He also said that the film will come out in a few years since it is a big project. In November 2016, Gibson confirmed that the title of the sequel would be \"The Resurrection of the Christ\" and implied that part of the movie would be taking place in Hell, stating that the film would explore what happened in the three-day period between the death of Jesus and his return. He also revealed that the film would probably be about three years away, because of its massive undertaking. In January 2018, Jim Caviezel confirmed that he will reprise his role as Jesus in the sequel. The film is scheduled to be released at the end of 2019 or early 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25228276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25228276", "title": "Trenor W. Park", "text": "Trenor W. Park\n\nTrenor William Park (December 8, 1823 – December 13, 1882) was an American lawyer, political figure, businessman, and philanthropist.\n\nBorn in Woodford, Vermont, Park studied law as a teenager, and attained admission to the bar at age 21, as soon as he was legally eligible. He practiced in Bennington until 1852. Park was also a businessman, and invested in lumbering and other ventures. In 1846 he married Laura Van Der Spiegle Hall, whose father Hiland Hall had served as a Congressman and Governor of Vermont. In 1851, Hall was named Chairman of the U.S. Land Commission that settled Mexican land titles after the annexation of California. He relocated to San Francisco, and Park went with him.\n\nIn California, Park practiced law and was a founder of the Halleck, Peachy, Billings & Park firm. He continued to pursue business opportunities, including real estate and mining, and became the manager of John C. Frémont's Rancho Las Mariposas gold mine. Park faced temporary financial setbacks during the Panic of 1857, but recovered and became very wealthy. When the Republican Party was organized in the mid-1850s, Park won election as the first Chairman of the state party's Central Committee.\n\nPark returned to Vermont in 1864, and continued to practice law and pursue investments in a variety of businesses while also maintaining a residence in New York City. He also served as a member of the Vermont House of Representatives and Vermont's member of the Republican National Committee. Park was a candidate for the 1874 Republican nomination for Governor, but withdrew in favor of Asahel Peck, who went on to win the general election.\n\nA noted civic activist and philanthropist, Park's donations included Bennington's public library, the building and land for the Vermont Soldiers' Home, and the University of Vermont's Park Gallery of Art, which later became part of the university's Robert Hull Fleming Museum. Park died at sea in 1882, and was buried first at Brooklyn, New York's Green-Wood Cemetery, and later at Bennington's Old Cemetery.\n\nTrenor William Park was born in Woodford, Vermont on December 8, 1823. the son of Luther and Cynthia (Pratt) Park. He was raised in Bennington and began working at an early age, including selling candy and carrying letters to and from the Bennington post office.\n\nAt age 15 Park became the proprietor of a candy store on Bennington's North Street, and at age 16 he began to study law with Bennington County State's Attorney Alanson P. Lyman, attaining admission to the bar as soon as he was legally eligible in 1844. Park began a practice in Bennington, and maintained it until 1852, also becoming active in lumbering and other business ventures. On December 15, 1846 he married Laura Van Der Spiegle Hall, the daughter of Congressman and Governor Hiland Hall. They had three children Eliza, Laura and Trenor Luther Park.\n\nIn 1851 Hall was appointed Chairman of the U.S. Land Commission empowered to settle Mexican land titles after the annexation of California, and Park traveled to San Francisco with him. He practiced law successfully, soon becoming a partner in the state's leading firm, Halleck, Peachy, Billings & Park. In 1855 Park played a key role in San Francisco's political reform movement by establishing the San Francisco Bulletin newspaper. He also became active in several commercial enterprises, including real estate and mining, and managed the Rancho Las Mariposas gold mine owned by John C. Frémont. Park lost some of his investments in the Panic of 1857, but eventually became very wealthy.\n\nOriginally a Whig, at the founding of the Republican Party, Park became an active member, serving as a delegate to several state conventions. When the state party was organized in 1856, Park was selected as the first Chairman of California's Republican State Central Committee. He served until 1860, when he was succeeded by William Sherman. In 1863 he was a Unionist candidate for the U.S. Senate, narrowly losing election in the California legislature. In 1864 he was a California delegate to the Republican national convention that nominated President Abraham Lincoln for reelection and named Democrat Andrew Johnson as its vice presidential candidate.\n\nIn 1864 Park returned to Vermont, where he incorporated the First National Bank of North Bennington, was an original investor in the Central Vermont Railroad, and again speculated in several successful business ventures, including timber and mines. He also established a second residence in New York City. He served in the Vermont House of Representatives from 1865 to 1869. In 1868 he was a Vermont delegate to the Republican National Convention that nominated Ulysses S. Grant for President and Schuyler Colfax for Vice President. The same year, he was elected as Vermont's member of the Republican National Committee, serving until 1870.\n\nIn 1870 he was one of the founders of Rutland, Vermont's Baxter National Bank, and he often continued to invest in partnership with the bank's President, Horace Henry Baxter. In 1871 Park's daughter Eliza married John G. McCullough, former Attorney General of California, who became active in several of Park's business ventures and later served as Governor of Vermont. Also in 1871, Park was an owner and promoter of the supposedly depleted Utah Emma Silver Mine. Unsuspecting English citizens invested millions of pounds in the mine. In 1876 and 1877 his partners and he were accused of defrauding the group that purchased the mine from them, and they were acquitted in a nationally publicized trial.\n\nPark was a candidate for the 1874 Republican nomination for Governor, but withdrew in favor of the eventual nominee and general election winner, state Supreme Court Justice Asahel Peck. The same year, Park purchased controlling interest in the Panama Railway and was elected its President, succeeding Russell Sage. During the rest of the 1870s he engaged in a well-publicized contest with rival financier Jay Gould for control of Pacific Mail, the company that shipped cargo between the eastern and western United States by moving it overland across the Isthmus of Panama.\n\nActive in civic affairs, Park was a member of the committee that oversaw design and construction of the Bennington Battle Monument, and was a Trustee of the University of Vermont. His philanthropic donations included the Bennington Free Library (with Seth B. Hunt), and the building and land for the Vermont Soldiers' Home (again in conjunction with the Hunt family). He also donated the University of Vermont's Park Gallery of Art, the exhibits of which were later incorporated into the university's Robert Hull Fleming Museum.\n\nTrenor Park died on December 13, 1882, while aboard the ship \"San Blas\" between New York and Aspinwall, Panama while en route to San Francisco. His funeral took place at New York City's Collegiate Reformed Church, and he was buried in Brooklyn's Green-Wood Cemetery. He was later re-interred at Bennington's Old Cemetery.\n\nHis Bennington home, the Park-McCullough House, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1972 and is open to the public.\n\nTrenor Luther Park (1861-1907) studied at Harvard University and was a successful businessman, yachtsman and golfer. He was married to Julia Hunt Catlin (1864-1947). Trenor L. Park died during surgery for an intestinal ailment, and his friends and family believed his decline had been hastened by despondence over the death of his nine-year-old daughter Elliot, who had been killed in an accident earlier that year.\n\nLaura Hall Park (1858-1939) married Frederic Beach Jennings (1853-1920), a Bennington and New York City lawyer and businessman. They donated the site of their Vermont home to become the location of Bennington College.\n\n"}
{"id": "303461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303461", "title": "Vyasa", "text": "Vyasa\n\nVyasa (; , literally \"Compiler\") is a central and revered figure in most Hindu traditions. He is also sometimes called Veda Vyāsa (वेदव्यास, \"veda-vyāsa\", \"the one who classified the Vedas\") or Krishna Dvaipāyana (referring to his dark complexion and birthplace). He is generally considered the author of the Mahabharata, as well as a character in it and the scribe of both the Vedas and Puranas. Vyasa is also considered to be one of the seven Chiranjivins (long lived, or immortals), who are still in existence according to Hindu belief.\n\nAccording to the Vishnu Purana, \"Veda Vyasa\" is a title applied to the compilers of the Vedas who are avatars of Vishnu; 28 people with this title have appeared so far. The reason for this 28 people is that in every Yuga in the Dwapara of a Given Manvantara in a Given Kalpa (Brahma day). Veda Vyasa who is also incarnation of God comes down. Currently, we are in Sveta varaha kalpa of 7th Manu called Vaivaswata Manu and 27 Maha yugas have completed and we are currently in the last phase of 28th Yuga Kali Yuga phase.\n\nThe festival of Guru Purnima is dedicated to him. It is also known as \"Vyasa Purnima\", for it is the day believed to be both his birthday and the day he divided the Vedas.\n\nVyasa appears for the first time as the compiler of, and an important character in the Mahabharata. It is said that he was the expansion of the god Vishnu who came in Dwaparayuga to make all the Vedic knowledge available in written form which was available in spoken form at that time. He was the son of Satyavati, adopted daughter of the fisherman Dusharaj and the wandering sage Parashara (who is credited with being the author of the first Purana, Vishnu Purana). There are two different views regarding his birthplace. One of the views suggests that he was born in the Tanahun district in western Nepal, in Vyas municipality of Gandaki zone of Tanahun district and his name, Ved Vyas, names his birthplace. Another view suggests that he was born on an island in the Yamuna River near Kalpi, Uttar Pradesh, India. Vyasa was dark-complexioned and hence may be called by the name \"Krishna\", and also the name \"Dwaipayana\", meaning 'island-born'.\n\nDhritarashtra, born of Ambika, and Pandu, born of Ambalika and Vidura born to a maid, were born from Vyasa's powers (Siddhis).\n\nVyasa is believed to have lived on the banks of Ganga in modern-day Uttarakhand. The place was also the abode of the sage Vashishta along with the Pandavas, the five brothers of the Mahabharata.\n\nAccording to the Mahabharata, Maharishi Vyas, his disciples and the sage Viswamitra decided to settle down in a cool and serene atmosphere after the Kurukshetra War. In the quest for a peaceful abode, he came to the Dandaka forest and pleased with serenity of the region, selected this place. Since Maharishi Vyasa spent considerable time in prayers, the place was then called \"Vasara\", which became turned into Basar (in Telangana) due to the influence of the Marathi language in this region.\n\nAccording to Vishnu Purana that \"Shri Vyasa Deva\" (Krishna Dwaipayana Vyasa) or Ved Vyasa, son of Parashara and Satyavati and composer of Mahabharata was born in an island on Yamuna at Kalpi.\n\nAccording to the legends, in his previous life, Vyasa was the Sage Apantaratamas, who was born when Lord Vishnu uttered the syllable \"Bhu\". He was a devotee of Lord Vishnu. Since birth, he already possessed the knowledge of the Vedas, the Dharmashastras and the Upanishads. At Vishnu's behest, he was reborn as Vyasa.\n\nSage Parashara was the father of Vyasa and the grandson of Sage Vashistha. Prior to Vyasa's birth, Parashara had performed a severe penance to Lord Shiva. Shiva granted a boon that Parashara's son would be a Brahmarshi equal to Vashistha and would be famous for his knowledge.\n\nParashara begot Vyasa with Satyavati. She conceived and immediately gave birth to Vyasa. Vyasa turned into an adult and left, promising his mother that he would come to her when needed.\n\nVyasa acquired his knowledge from the four Kumaras, Narada and Lord Brahma himself.\n\nHindus traditionally hold that Vyasa categorised the primordial single Veda into three canonical collections and that the fourth one, known as Atharvaveda, was recognized as Veda only very much later. Hence he was called Veda Vyasa, or \"Splitter of the Vedas,\" the splitting being a feat that allowed people to understand the divine knowledge of the Veda. The word vyasa means split, differentiate or describe.\n\nThe \"Vishnu Purana\" has a theory about Vyasa. The Hindu view of the universe is that of a cyclic phenomenon that comes into existence and dissolves repeatedly. Each cycle is presided over by a number of Manus, one for each Manvantara, that has four ages, Yugas of declining virtues. The Dvapara Yuga is the third Yuga. The \"Vishnu Purana\" (Book 3, Ch 3) says:\n\nIn every third world age (Dvapara), Vishnu, in the person of Vyasa, in order to promote the good of mankind, divides the Veda, which is properly but one, into many portions. Observing the limited perseverance, energy and application of mortals, he makes the Veda fourfold, to adapt it to their capacities; and the bodily form which he assumes, in order to effect that classification, is known by the name of Veda-vyasa. Of the different Vyasas in the present Manvantara and the branches which they have taught, you shall have an account.\nTwenty-eight times have the Vedas been arranged by the great Rishis in the Vaivasvata Manvantara... and consequently eight and twenty Vyasas have passed away; by whom, in the respective periods, the Veda has been divided into four. The first... distribution was made by Svayambhu (Brahma) himself; in the second, the arranger of the Veda (Vyasa) was Prajapati... (and so on up to twenty-eight).\n\nAs per Vishnu Purana, Guru Drona's son rishi Aswatthama will become the next sage Vyasa (title), who in turn divide the Veda in 29th Mahayuga of 7th Manvantara.\n\nVyasa is traditionally known as the chronicler of this epic and also features as an important character in it. According to the legend, the sage Vyasa was the son of Satyavati and Parashara. During her youth, Satyavati was a fisherwoman who used to drive a boat. One day, sage Parashara was in a hurry to attend a Yajna. Satyavati helped him cross the river borders. On this account, the sage offered her a mantra which would result in begetting a son who would be a sage with wisdom and all good qualities. Satyavati immediately recited the mantra and thus Vyasa was born. She kept this incident a secret, not telling even King Shantanu. After many years, Shantanu and Satyavati had two sons, named Chitrangada and Vichitravirya. Chitrangada was killed by Gandharvas in a battle, while Vichitravirya was weak and ill all the time. Satyavati then asked Bhisma to fetch queens for Vichitravirya. Bhishma attended the swayamvara conducted by the king of Kashi (present-day Varanasi), and defeated all the kings. He abducted three princesses Amba, Ambika and Ambalika. Amba, later was a source of trouble to Bhishma. Amba was in love with the prince of Shalva and when Bhishma learnt about this, he allowed her to go to Shalva, who rejected her. She came back to Bhishma and asked him to marry her, which he could not due to his vow. She shuttled between Bhishma and Shalva with no success. Due to this she vowed to kill Bhishma. During the wedding ceremony, Vichitravirya collapsed and died. Satyavati was clueless on know how to save the clan from perishing. She asked Bhishma to marry both the queens, who refused, as he had taken a vow and had promised her and her father never to marry. He, therefore could not father an heir to the kingdom. Later, Satyavati revealed to Bhishma, secrets from her past life and requested him to bring Vyasa to Hastinapur. Sage Vyasa had a fierce personality and was rather unpleasant in appearance. Hence upon seeing him, Ambika was terrified and she shut her eyes, resulting in their offspring being born blind. The child was Dhritarashtra. The other queen, Ambalika, upon meeting sage Vyasa turned pale, which resulted in their child being born pale. He was Pandu. Alarmed, Satyavati requested Vyasa meet Ambika again and grant her another son. Ambika, instead sent her maid to meet Vyasa. The duty bound maid was calm and composed; she had a healthy child later, named Vidura. While these are Vyasa's sons, another son Shuka, born of his wife Pinjalā (Vatikā), daughter of the sage Jābāli was his true spiritual heir. Shuka appears occasionally in the story as a spiritual guide to the young Kuru princes.\nIn the first book of the Mahābhārata, Vyasa asks Ganesha to assist him in writing the text. Ganesha imposes a precondition that he would do so only if Vyasa would narrate the story without a pause. Vyasa set a counter-condition that Ganesha understand the verses first before transcribing them. Thus Vyasa narrated the entire Mahābhārata and all the Upanishads and the 18 Puranas, while Lord Ganesha wrote.\n\nVyasa is supposed to have meditated and authored the epic by the foothills of the river Beas (Vipasa) in the Punjab region.\n\nVyasa's \"Jaya\" (literally, \"victory\"), the core of the Mahabharata, is a dialogue between Dhritarashtra (the Kuru king and the father of the Kauravas, who opposed the Pāndavas in the Kurukshetra War) and Sanjaya, his adviser and charioteer. Sanjaya narrates the particulars of the Kurukshetra War, fought in eighteen days, chronologically. Dhritarashtra at times asks questions and expresses doubts, sometimes lamenting, fearing the destruction the war would bring on his family, friends and kin.\n\nSanjaya, in the beginning, gives a description of the various continents of the Earth and numerous planets and focuses on the kingdom of Bhārata lineage that comprises India, Nepal, Tibet, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Iran, Cambodia and several other countries in south-asian subcontinent. Large and elaborate lists are given, describing hundreds of kingdoms, tribes, provinces, cities, towns, villages, rivers, mountains, forests, etc. of the ancient region of Bhārata Varsha. Additionally, he gives descriptions of the military formations adopted by each side on each day, the death of individual heroes and the details of the battles. Eighteen chapters of Vyasa's Jaya constitute the Bhagavad Gita, a sacred text in Hinduism. Jaya deals with diverse subjects, such as geography, history, warfare, spirituality and morality.\n\nThe final version of Vyasa's work is the Mahābhārata. It is structured as a narration by Ugrasrava Sauti, a professional storyteller, to an assembly of rishis who, in the forest of Naimisha, had just attended the 12 year sacrifice known as Saunaka, also known as Kulapati.\n\nWithin the \"Mahābhārata\", there is a tradition in which Vyasa wishes to write down or inscribe his work:\n\nThere is some evidence however that writing may have been known earlier based on archeological findings of styli in the Painted Grey Ware culture, dated between 5000 B.C. and 3000 B.C. and archeological evidence of the Brahmi script being used from at least 300 B.C.\n\nVyasa is also credited with the writing of the eighteen major Purāṇas. His son Shuka is the narrator of the major Purāṇa Bhagavat-Purāṇa.\n\nThe \"Yoga Bhashya\", a commentary on the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, is attributed to Vyasa.\n\nThe Brahma Sutra is attributed to Badarayana — which makes him the proponent of the crest-jewel school of Hindu philosophy, i.e., Vedanta. Vaishnavas conflate Vyasa with Badarayana because the island on which Vyasa was born is said to have been covered with badara (Indian jujube/Ber/Ziziphus mauritiana) trees. Some modern historians, though, suggest that these were two different personalities.\n\nThere may have been more than one Vyasa, or the name Vyasa may have been used at times to give credibility to a number of ancient texts. Much ancient Indian literature was a result of long oral tradition with wide cultural significance rather than the result of a single author. However, Vyasa is credited with documenting, compiling, categorising or writing commentaries on much of this literature.\n\nIn \"Brahm Avtar\", one of the compositions in Dasam Granth, the Second Scripture of Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh mentions Rishi Vyas as an avatar of Brahma. He is considered the fifth incarnation of Brahma. Guru Gobind Singh wrote brief account of Rishi Vyas's compositions about great kings— Manu, Prithu, Bharath, Jujat, Ben, Mandata, Dilip, Raghu Raj and Aj— and attributed to him the store of Vedic learning.\n\n\n"}
