{"id": "41154387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41154387", "title": "Acta Curiae", "text": "Acta Curiae\n\nActa Curiae (Latin meaning \"acts of court\"), are records of the proceedings in ecclesiastical courts and in quasi-ecclesiastical courts, particularly of universities. They are sometimes also known as Registers of the Chancellor's (or Vice-Chancellor's) Court. This type of court was often used by local people who were college servants, to settle minor legal disputes. Records of a Vice-Chancellor's Court at the University of Cambridge, exist from 1549 to 1883.\n"}
{"id": "25652987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25652987", "title": "Affect (linguistics)", "text": "Affect (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, affect is an attitude or emotion that a speaker brings to an utterance. Affects such as sarcasm, contempt, dismissal, distaste, disgust, disbelief, exasperation, boredom, anger, joy, respect or disrespect, sympathy, pity, gratitude, wonder, admiration, humility, and awe are frequently conveyed through paralinguistic mechanisms such as intonation, facial expression, and gesture, and thus require recourse to punctuation or emoticons when reduced to writing, but there are grammatical and lexical expressions of affect as well, such as pejorative and approbative or laudative expressions or inflections, adversative forms, honorific and deferential language, interrogatives and tag questions, and some types of evidentiality.\n\nLexical choices may frame speaker affect. Examples are \"slender\" (positive affect) vs. \"scrawny\" (negative affect), \"thrifty\" (positive) vs. \"stingy\" (negative), \"freedom fighter\" (positive) vs. \"terrorist\" (negative), etc.\n\nIn many languages of Europe, augmentative derivations are used to express contempt or other negative attitudes toward the noun being so modified, whereas diminutives may express affection; on the other hand, diminutives are frequently used to belittle or be dismissive. For instance, in Spanish, a name ending in diminutive \"-ito\" (masculine) or \"-ita\" (feminine) may be a term of endearment, but \"señorito\" \"little mister\" for \"señor\" \"mister\" may be mocking. Polish has a range of augmentative and diminutive forms, which express differences in affect. So, from \"żaba\" \"a frog\", besides \"żabucha\" for simply a big frog, there is augmentative \"żabsko\" to express distaste, \"żabisko\" if the frog is ugly, \"żabula\" if it is likeably awkward, etc.\n\nAffect can also be conveyed by more subtle means. Duranti, for example, shows that the use of pronouns in Italian narration indicates that the character referred to is important to the narration, but is generally also a mark of positive speaker attitude toward the character.\n\nIn Japanese and Korean, grammatical affect is conveyed both through honorific, polite, and humble language, which affects both nouns and verbal inflection, but also with clause-final particles that express a range of speaker emotions and attitudes toward what is being said. For instance, when asked in Japanese if what one is eating is good, one might say \"oishii\" \"it's delicious\" or \"mazui\" \"it's bad\" with various particles for nuance:\n\nThe same can be done in Korean:\n\nIn English and Japanese, the passive of intransitive verbs may be used to express an adversative situation:\n\nIn some languages with split intransitive grammars, such as the Central Pomo language of California, the choice of encoding an affected verb argument as an \"object\" (patientive case) reflects empathy or emotional involvement on the part of the speaker:\n\n"}
{"id": "961156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=961156", "title": "Alba, Piedmont", "text": "Alba, Piedmont\n\nAlba (; Langhe dialect: \"Arba\") is a town and \"comune\" of Piedmont, Italy, in the province of Cuneo. It is considered the capital of the UNESCO Human Heritage hilly area of Langhe, and is famous for its white truffle, peach and wine production. The confectionery group Ferrero is based there. The city joined the UNESCO Creative Cities Network in October 2017.\n\nAlba's origins date from before the Roman civilization, connected probably to the presence of Celtic and Ligurian tribes in the area.\n\nThe modern town occupies the site of ancient Alba Pompeia, the name given after being officially recognized as a town by the Roman consul Gnaeus Pompeius Strabo while constructing a road from Aquae Statiellae (Acqui) to Augusta Taurinorum (Turin). Alba was the birthplace of Publius Helvius Pertinax, briefly Roman emperor in 193.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Empire, the city was repeatedly sacked by Ostrogoths, Burgundians, Byzantines, Lombards, Franks, Hungarians and Saracens. In the 11th century it became a free commune (or city-state) and was a member of the Lombard League. Montferrat and the Visconti fought over the town; later it became a possession of the Gonzaga. Charles Emmanuel I of Savoy conquered it twice, while later France and Spain battled for its possession. The Treaty of Cherasco (1631) assigned Alba definitively to Savoy. During Napoleonic Wars, it was part of the Republic of Alba (1796) and of the Subalpine Republic, both French clients, before being annexed to the French Empire in 1802. It was an arrondissement center in firstly Tanaro department between 1802-1805, later in Stura one between 1805-1814 before liberation by Austrian troops. It was returned to Kingdom of Sardinia (Duchy of Savoy's name after gaining Sardinia in 1720) in 1814.\n\nAlba won a Gold Medal for Military Valour for the heroic activity of its citizens in the Italian resistance movement during the course of World War II. On 10 October 1944, the town was liberated by partisans who established a Republic of Alba which for a few weeks was able to maintain its independence from the Fascist Republic of Salò. The republic lasted to 2 November 1944, when Republic of Salo retook it. It was finally liberated by French troops on 2 May 1945.\n\nApproximately located at about 50 km from the cities of Turin and Cuneo, Alba is placed on the right side of the river Tanaro. The climate is typically more drought than in other lands at the north of the Po river. \n\nOf the Roman city, which had a polygonal form, parts of the fortified gate and remains of some edifices with marble and mosaics can still be seen.\n\nOther attractions include:\n\nThe city museums include the F. Eusebio Municipal Museum of Archaeology and Natural Science.\n\nIn addition to traditional agriculture, Alba is a very important center of wine. In the area of Alba, in fact, there are 290 wineries that cultivate an area of of land, producing an average of 61,200 hL of wine annually.\n\nThe wines of Alba are among the most renowned in Italy and are divided into:\n\nThe city has a thriving economy, boasting the confectionery industry's world-renowned Ferrero, the publishing house Società San Paolo and the textile firm Miroglio.\n\nThe town also houses the largest cooperative credit bank of Italy, by number of partners, the Banca d'Alba, and the international food chain Eataly. UniEuro, the Italian chain of stores specializing in household electrical appliances and acquired by Dixons Retail in 2002, was also established in Alba.\n\nAlba is also famous worldwide for its white truffles, and its annual Truffle Festival.\n\nAccording to the Köppen climate classification, Alba has a humid subtropical climate which is moderated by the proximity of the Mediterranean sea. Its winter are warmer, January is usually , and its summers are hot, where temperature can reach . Rain falls mostly during the spring and autumn; during the hottest months rain is less common, July with and August with . During November and December, the town of Alba can be prone to fog.\n\nThe town’s football club, A.S.D. Albese Calcio has been in existence since 1917.\n\nIn 2009 Alba was the 1st Italian Comune with more than ten thousands inhabitants for Quality of life.\n\n\nAlba is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "10999159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10999159", "title": "Alberto Moreiras", "text": "Alberto Moreiras\n\nAlberto Moreiras is a Spanish-born academic and cultural theorist who currently works at Texas A&M University. Previously he taught at Duke University and at the Centre for Modern Thought at the University of Aberdeen.\n\nHis publications include \"Tercer espacio\", \"The Exhaustion of Difference\", and \"Línea de sombra\".\n\nIn critic Juan Poblete's words, Moreiras's work \"has been characterized thus far by a strong metacritical component whereby theoretical texts are continuously de/constructed in an investigation of both their epistemological status and their general political potential as interventions in a concrete field of forces.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2660572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2660572", "title": "Aniconism", "text": "Aniconism\n\nAniconism is the absence of material representations of the natural and supernatural world in various cultures, particularly in the monotheistic Abrahamic religions. This ban may extend from only God and deities to saint characters, all living beings, and everything that exists. The phenomenon is generally codified by the religious traditions and as such becomes a taboo. When enforced by the physical destruction of images, aniconism becomes iconoclasm. The word itself derives from Greek εικων 'image' with the negative prefix \"an-\" (Greek privative alpha) and the suffix \"-ism\" (Greek -ισμος).\n\nMonotheist religions – Aniconism was shaped in monotheist religions by theological considerations and historical contexts. It emerged as a corollary of seeing God's position as the ultimate power holder, and the need to defend this unique status against competing external and internal forces, such as pagan idols and critical humans. Idolatry was seen as a threat to uniqueness, and one way that prophets and missionaries chose to fight it was through the prohibition of physical representations. The same solution worked against the pretension of humans to have the same power of creation as God (hence their banishment from the Heavens, the destruction of Babel, and the Second Commandment in the biblical texts).\n\nAniconism as a construction – Some modern scholars, working on various cultures, have gathered material showing that the idea of aniconism is in many cases an intellectual construction, suiting specific intents and historical contexts, rather than a fact of the tangible reality (Huntington for Buddhism, Clément for Islam and Bland for Judaism – see below in notes and references).\n\nBuddhist art used to be aniconic: the Buddha was represented only through his symbols (an empty throne, the Bodhi tree, the Buddha's footprints, the prayer wheel). This reluctance toward anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha, and the sophisticated development of aniconic symbols to avoid it (even in narrative scenes where other human figures would appear), seem to be connected to one of the Buddha's sayings, reported in the Digha Nikaya, that discouraged representations of himself after the extinction of his body. Although there is still some debate, the first anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha himself are often considered a result of the Greco-Buddhist interaction. \n\nIn the late 20th century, the well-established theory of aniconism in Buddhist art had been criticized by one art historian, and the question has been the subject of continuing debate.\n\nAlthough aniconism is better known in connection to Abrahamic religions, basic patterns are shared between various religious beliefs including Hinduism, which also has aniconistic beliefs. For example, although Hinduism is commonly represented by such anthropomorphic religious murtis, aniconism is equally represented with such abstract symbols of God such as the Shiva linga and the saligrama. Moreover, Hindus have found it easier to focus on anthropomorphic icons, because god Krishna said in the Bhagavad Gita, chapter 12, verse 5, that it is much more difficult to focus on God as the unmanifested than God with form, because human beings have a need to perceive via the senses.\n\nThere were two periods of iconoclasm, or icon-destruction, in the Byzantine Empire, in the mid eighth and early ninth centuries. The political aspects of the conflicts are complex, dealing with the relationship between the Byzantine Emperors, the Catholic Church and Orthodox Church councils, and the Pope. Theologically, the debate, as with most in Orthodox theology at the time, revolved around the two natures of Jesus. Iconoclasts believed that icons could not represent both the divine and the human natures of the Messiah at the same time, but separately. Because an icon which depicted Jesus as purely physical would be Nestorianism, and one which showed Him as both human and divine would not be able to do so without confusing the two natures into one mixed nature, which was Monophysitism, all icons were thus heretical. Reference was also made to the prohibitions on the worship of graven images in the Mosaic Law.\n\nAniconism was also prevalent during the Protestant Reformation, when some Protestants began to preach rejection of what they perceived as idolatrous Catholic practices which filled its churches with pictures, statues, or relics of saints. The Reformed (Calvinist) churches and certain sects (most notably the Puritans and some of the Baptist churches) began to prohibit the display of religious images. A famous example of this comes from Oliver Cromwell, who expelled King Charles I, and who once destroyed a golden relic placed in his church.\n\nIn the Church of the East, also known as the Nestorian church, opposition to religious images eventually became the norm due to the rise of Islam in the region, where it forbade any type of depictions of Saints and biblical prophets. As such, the Church was forced to get rid of their icons. This tradition is still in practice today, with many Assyrian churches lacking artistic depictions of biblical figures, including those of Jesus and Mary.\n\nThe Amish continue to avoid photographs or any depictions of people; their children's dolls usually have blank faces.\n\nAmong Jehovah's Witnesses, followers are prohibited from wearing religious themed jewelry displaying icons such as the cross, as idol worship is prohibited. Having images or sculptures of Jesus, Jehovah (God), and angels are also considered a taboo according to their interpretation of Exodus 20:4,5 and 1 Corinthians 10:14. Followers are also admonished to avoid any objects portraying depictions of the supernatural. \n\nThe Qur'an, the Islamic holy book, does not explicitly prohibit the depiction of human figures; it merely condemns idolatry (ex.: , ). Interdictions of figurative representation are present in the Hadith, among a dozen of the hadith recorded during the latter part of the period when they were being written down. Because these hadith are tied to particular events in the life of the Prophet Muhammad, they need to be interpreted in order to be applied in any general manner. Sunni exegetes, from the 9th century onward, increasingly saw in them categorical prohibitions against producing and using any representation of living beings. There are variations between religious schools and marked differences between different branches of Islam. Aniconism is common among fundamentalist Sunni sects such as Salafis and Wahhabis (which are also often iconoclastic), and less prevalent among liberal movements in Islam. Shi'a and mystical orders also have less stringent views on aniconism. On the individual level, whether or not specific Muslims believe in aniconism may depend on how much credence is given to hadith (e.g. Submitters do not believe in any hadith), and how liberal or strict they are in personal practice.\n\nAniconism in Islam not only deals with the material image, but touches upon mental representations as well. It is a thorny question, discussed by early theologians, as to how to describe God, Muhammad and other prophets, and, indeed, if it is permissible at all to do so. God is usually represented by immaterial attributes, such as \"holy\" or \"merciful\", commonly known from His \"Ninety-nine beautiful names\". Muhammad's physical appearance, however, is amply described, particularly in the traditions on his life and deeds \"Sira al-Nabi\". Of no less interest is the validity of sightings of holy personages made during dreams.\n\nReligious core – In practice, the core of normative religion in Islam is consistently aniconic. Its embodiment are spaces such as the mosque and objects like the Qur'an or the white dress of pilgrims entering Mecca, deprived of figurative images. Other spheres of religion – schisms, mysticism, popular piety, private level – exhibit in this regard significant variability. Profane aniconism is even more fluctuating. Generally speaking aniconsim in Islamic societies is restricted in modern times to specific religious contexts, while its prevalence in the past wasn't enforced in numerous areas and during extended periods.\n\nPresent – Depending on which segment of Islamic societies are referred to, the application of aniconism is characterized with noteworthy differences. Factors are the epoch considered, the country, the religious orientation, the political intent, the popular beliefs, the private benefit or the dichotomy between reality and discourse. Today, the concept of an aniconic Islam coexists with a daily life for Muslims awash with images. TV stations and newspapers (which do present still and moving representations of living beings) have an exceptional impact on public opinion, sometimes, as in the case of Al-Jazira, with a global reach, beyond the Arabic speaking and Muslim audience. Portraits of secular and religious leaders are omnipresent on banknotes and coins, in streets and offices (e.g.: presidents like Nasser and Mubarak, Arafat, Al-Asad or Hezbollah's Nasrallah and ayatollah Khomeini). Anthropomorphic statues in public places are to be found in most Muslim countries (Saddam Hussain's are infamous ), as well as Arts schools training sculptors and painters. In the Egyptian countryside, it is fashionable to celebrate and advertise the returning of pilgrims from Mekka on the walls of their houses. Sometimes those who profess aniconism will practice figurative representation (cf. portraits of Talibans from the Kandahar photographic studios during their imposed ban on photography). For Shi'a communities, portraits of the major figures of Shi'ite history are important elements of religious devotion. Portraits of 'Ali – with veiled and unveiled face alike – can be bought in Iran around shrines and in the streets, to be hung in homes or carried with oneself, while in Pakistan, India and Bangladesh they notoriously ornate trucks, buses and rickshas. Contrary to the Sunni tradition, a photographic picture of the deceased can be placed on the Shi'ite tombs. A curiosity in Iran is a Orientalist photography supposed to represent Prophet Muhammad as a young boy. The Grand Ayatollah Sistani of Najaf in Iraq has given a fatwa declaring the depiction of Muhammad, the Prophets and other holy characters, permissible if it is made with the utmost respect.\n\nPast – Neither is the representation of living beings in Islamic countries a modern phenomenon or due to current technology, westernization or the cult of the personality. Statues of humans and animals adorned palaces of the Ummayad era, while frescoes were common under the Ummayads, and later in many countries of Dar al-Islam, notably under the Safavids and various Central Asian dynasties. Figurative miniatures from Medieval Arabic countries, India, Persia and Turkey are one of the fleuron of Islamic Arts and a good deal of its attraction power for non-Muslim societies. Potent rulers like Shah Tahmasp in Persia and Akbar in India, patrons of some of the most beautiful figurative miniatures in arts from Islamic countries, migrated during their life between an extravagant 'figurative' and an extremist 'aniconic' period. During the 15th and 17th century representations of Muhammad (veiled, unveiled) and other prophets or Biblical characters, like Adam, Abraham or Jesus; and Solomon and Alexander the Great, became common in painted manuscripts from Persia, India and Turkey. Extreme rarities are an illustrated Qur'an depicting Muhammad and, in a Spanish-Muslim manuscript datable from the 16th century, five Ummayad and Abbasid caliphs. Iblis too is present in various illustrated manuscripts. There aren't, however, known figurative depictions of God.\n\nCircumvention methods – Medieval Muslim artists found various ways not to infringe any prohibition of the image, while still representing living beings. It can be argued that since God is absolute, the act of depiction is his own and not that of a human; and miniatures are obviously very crude representations of the reality, so the two can't be mistaken. At the material level, prophets in manuscripts can have their face covered by a veil or all humans have a stroke drawn over their neck, a symbolical cut defending them to be alive. Calligraphy, the most Islamic of arts in the Muslim world, has also its figurative side due to anthropo- and zoomorphic calligrams.\n\nA number of verses in the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) refer to prohibitions against the creation of various forms of images, invariably linked directly with idolatry. The strongest over-all source is based on what Judaism counts as the second of the Ten Commandments:\n\nThis prohibition is widespread. For instance, Leviticus 26:1 reads:\n\nSimilar injunctions appear in Numbers 33:52, Deuteronomy 4:16, and 27:15; in all cases, the creation of the image is associated with idolatry, and indeed, the words commonly translated as \"image\" or some variant thereof (פסל \"pesel\", שקוץ \"shikuts\") are generally used interchangeably with words typically translated as \"idol\" (e.g., אליל \"elil\"). (An important exception is צלם \"tselem\", used in such verses as Genesis 1:26: \"let us make man in our image\". This word was not associated with idols.)\n\nBased on these prohibitions, the Hebrew prophets, such as Isaiah, Jeremiah, Amos and others, preached very strongly against idolatry. In many of their sermons, as recorded in the biblical books bearing their names, the prophets regarded the use of religious images as a negative sign of assimilation into the surrounding pagan cultures of the time.\n\nDespite the semantic association with idols, Halakha (\"Jewish law\") as taught by the Shulkhan Arukh (\"Code of Jewish Law\") and still practiced and applied by Orthodox Judaism today, interprets the verses as prohibiting the creation of certain types of graven images of people, angels, or astronomical bodies, whether or not they are actually used as idols. The Shulkhan Arukh states: \"It is forbidden to make complete solid or raised images of people or angels, or any images of heavenly bodies except for purposes of study\". (\"Heavenly bodies\" are included here because the stars and planets were worshipped by some religions in human forms. Astronomical models for scientific purposes are permitted under the category of \"study.\") \nAlthough the prohibition applies mainly to sculpture, there are some authorities who prohibit two-dimensional full-face depictions. Some base this upon their understanding of the Talmud, and others based it upon Kabbalah. Of note is the portrait of Rabbi Tzvi Ashkenazi (known as \"the Hakham Tzvi\"), which is housed in the Jewish Museum in London. Based on his interpretation of this prohibition, the Hakham Tzvi refused to sit for his portrait. However, the London Jewish Community wanted a portrait, so they commissioned the portrait to be done without the Hakham Tzvi's knowledge. The Hakham Tzvi's son, Rabbi Jacob Emden, says it was a perfect likeness.\n\nAdditionally, there is one type of representation, namely, bas-relief or raised representation on a flat surface, that is particularly problematic. Rabbi Jacob Emden discusses a medal struck in honor of Rabbi Eliezer Horowitz that features Horowitz's portrait. Emden ruled this violated the injunction against depictions. Furthermore, many hold that such representations in the synagogue either violate this injunction or are not permitted, as they give the appearance of violating this injunction. Most notably, Rabbi David ibn Zimra and Rabbi Joseph Karo hold that carvings of lions (e.g., representing the Lion of Judah) are inappropriate in synagogues.\nOn the other hand, some authorities hold that Judaism has no objection to photography or other forms of two-dimensional art, and depictions of humans can be seen in religious books such as the Passover Haggadah, as well as children's books about biblical and historical personages. Although most Hasidic Jews object to having televisions in their homes, this is not related to prohibitions against idolatry, but, rather, to the content of network and cable programming. Hasidim of all groups regularly display portraits of their Rebbes, and, in some communities, the children trade \"rabbi cards\" that are similar to baseball cards. In both Hasidic and Orthodox Judaism, taking photographs or filming are forbidden on the Sabbath and Jewish holy days, but this prohibition has nothing to do with idolatry. Rather, it is related to the prohibition against working or creating on these days.\n\nAlthough, in biblical times, Jews were actively iconoclasts, physically tearing down and destroying idols of other religions located within their political jurisdiction, today there is more tolerance for other cultures. In the state of Israel, all religious sites, Jewish and non-Jewish alike, are protected by law. Even though Jewish Law teaches that idolatry is forbidden to all of humanity as one of the seven Noahide Laws, Jews today combat it through discussion, debate, and education, rather than the physical destruction of statues and shrines. However, many traditional Jews still follow the prohibitions against entering places of idolatry, and will not attend functions held in buildings where there are religious statues.\n\nIn a refutation of the belief in an aniconic Judaism, and more generally in an underestimation of Jewish visual arts, the historian of ideas Kalman Bland recently proposed that the phenomenon is a modern construction, and that \"Jewish aniconism crystallized simultaneously with the construction of modern Jewish identities\".\n\nFor the followers of the Bahá'í Faith, the photographs and depictions of the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh, who are considered Manifestations of God, are considered very precious. They are viewed and handled with reverence and respect, and their existence itself is not considered offensive. However, Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith, stated that believers should only view the images when they can be treated with the utmost respect, and not let them be exposed to the public or displayed in their private homes:\n\nShoghi Effendi has also written in the \"Directives from the Guardian\" regarding the portrait of the Báb:\n\nTwo pictures of Bahá'u'lláh and a portrait of the Báb are on display at the Bahá'í World Centre in the International Archives building, where the Bahá'ís view it as part of an organized pilgrimage.\n\nIn Africa aniconism varies from culture to culture from elaborate masks and statues of humans and animals to their total absence. A common feature, however, across the continent is that the \"High God\" is not given material shape. On the Germanic tribes, the Roman historian Tacitus writes the following: \"They don't consider it mighty enough for the Heavens to depict Gods on walls or to display them in some human shape.\" His observation is not general to all German people as documentary evidence suggests (see Ardre image stones).\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal culture there is a prohibition and tribal lore and custom contravening the depiction of the newly or recently dead, including photographs, because it is believed that depicting them will inhibit their passage to the Great Dreaming of the Ancestors. This has led some Australian newspapers to publish apologies alongside obituaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21550440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21550440", "title": "Art History (journal)", "text": "Art History (journal)\n\nArt History, journal of the Association for Art History, is an international forum for peer-reviewed scholarship and innovative research. Founded in 1978, the journal publishes essays, critical reviews, and special issues that engage with path-breaking new developments and critical debate in current art-historical practice. \"Art History\" covers all kinds of art and visual culture across all time periods and geographical areas. The journal welcomes contributions from the full spectrum of methodological perspectives, and is a forum for a wide range of historical, critical, historiographical and theoretical forms of writing. By means of this expanded definition, \"Art History\" works to transform and to extend the modes of enquiry that shape the discipline.\n"}
{"id": "59141892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59141892", "title": "Asante Ewer", "text": "Asante Ewer\n\nThe Asante Ewer or Asante Jug is a leaded bronze lidded jug dated to the 1390s. It is a rare surviving example of an English bronze jug from the 14th century, with great significance for the study of bronze working in medieval England. It was taken from Kumasi in Asante (now Ghana) during the Fourth Anglo-Ashanti War in 1895, and since 1896 has been held by the British Museum in London.\n\nThe front of the Asante Jug is decorated with the Royal Arms of England from the late 14th century, surmounted by a crown, with two lion supporters. Above three lines of lettering in a Lombardic script, within a moulded band, read from the bottom: \nThe inscription appears to be two English sentences, run together:\n\nThe neck of the Asante Jug bears six roundels, three on either side, each with a falcon spreading its wings, with one to each side of the spout and two either side of the handle. On the lip are three lions facing left, and a stag in a circle facing right. The seven-sided lid of the jug is original, decorated with a lion above a stag couchant in each segment. The handle ends with a scrolled quatrefoil.\n\nWithout the lid, the jug is high, and the lid (including the overlapping underlip) is . When assembled with its lid, the jug is high. It weighs , and has a capacity of . When filled, it would be inconveniently heavy to use.\n\nOnly two similar jugs are known in the UK. All have similar shapes, bear inscriptions in English with similar lettering, and were made from leaded bronze, an alloy of copper, tin and lead, cast in a two-part mould in a similar manner using bronze spacers to separate the inner and outer moulds, with similar heraldic decorative motifs. The Asante jug is the largest, and the only one to retain its lid. \n\nOf the other two jugs, the smallest is Wenlok jug in Luton: it was sold by Alexander Fermor-Hesketh, 3rd Baron Hesketh in 2005. The third is the Robinson jug, which was found in a farmhouse in Norfolk in the 1879 and is now in the collection of the Victoria & Albert Museum. The other two have fittings for a hinged lid but the lid has not survived. \n\nAll three jugs were made in England. The heraldic emblems on this jug link it to either Edward III or Richard II. The stag badges on the lid suggest Richard II, who used the white stag in the 1390s. The jug was found in Manhyia Palace in Kumasi in 1895, but when and how it arrived in West Africa is not known. It is speculated that it was carried from Europe to Africa in the Early Modern period as an impressive gift to present to an African ruler, having been bought cheaply there. There is a photograph taken in 1887 which shows the jug under a sacred tree at the royal palace. \n\nThe jug was bought by the British Museum in 1896 from Major General Charles St Leger Barter, who served in the Fourth Anglo-Ashanti War in December 1895 to February 1896 (also known as the Second Ashanti Expedition) which reached Kumasi and depose the Asantehene Prempeh I.\n\nAnother plainer 14th century English lidded jug is in Leeds City Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "3825548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3825548", "title": "Authenticité", "text": "Authenticité\n\nAuthenticité was the name given to the Chadian president François (Ngarta) Tombalbaye's attempt to remove foreign influence and promote southern Chadian culture throughout Chad during the 1970s. One of its most unpopular requirements was that civil servants underwent the \"yondo\" initiation rites common only amongst Tombalbaye's own subgroup of Sara people in southern Chad.\n\nA similar concept, also called \"authenticité\", was introduced by Mobutu Sese Seko in Zaïre.\n"}
{"id": "31016633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31016633", "title": "Belvedere on the Pfingstberg", "text": "Belvedere on the Pfingstberg\n\nThe Belvedere on the Pfingstberg () is a large structure north of the New Garden in Potsdam, Germany, at the summit of Pfingstberg hill. It was commissioned by King Friedrich Wilhelm IV of Prussia and built between 1847 and 1863 as a viewing platform.\n\nThe Belvedere forms part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Palaces and Parks of Potsdam and Berlin, inscribed in 1999.\n\nIt was commissioned by King Friedrich Wilhelm IV of Prussia and as completed is only part of a substantially more extensive project for the hilltop site. The Belvedere was built, as its name suggests, as a viewing platform for visitors and contains only two modest scale rooms for entertainment, one in each upper tower. The mural decoration of these (Roman-Etruscan and Moorish, respectively) is mostly now lost.\n\nArchitecturally eclectic, the two towers are modelled on Italian Renaissance architecture whilst the wings are Roman in style and some of the detailed decoration is Greek-inspired. It was constructed between 1847 and 1863 with an interruption from 1852 to 1860. \n\nBased on sketches from the King, the architects, Ludwig Persius, Friedrich August Stüler and , drew detailed plans. The landscape architect Peter Joseph Lenné was responsible for the design of the grounds which are planted in the manner of the English landscape garden, with serpentine paths and dense copses of hardwood trees. These now obstruct views of the Belvedere from the park and almost all points in Potsdam, but are apparently as designed by Lenné.\n\nThe Belvedere fell into disrepair during World War II and was left abandoned in the period of the German Democratic Republic. It was repaired between 1988 and 2005 by an association formed by a group of local residents. Today, the Belvedere is open to visitors and is still managed by the \"Förderverein Pfingstberg e.V.\" who won major financial backing for the restoration. Major contributors included the \"Hermann Reemtsma Stiftung\" and Werner Otto.\n\nThe twin prospect towers from which the view over Potsdam is achieved rise above a very high podium. This is in the form of a three-sided courtyard with central reflecting pool. The three sides of the courtyard are themselves each capped with viewing terraces under colonnades - two Corinthian and one with astylar round arches.\n\nVisitors ascend by many steps both outside and inside, with the final ascent being made via a narrow iron spiral staircase. Because of the dense tree planting of the park the view can only be achieved from the upper level.\n\nOccasional concerts are held on a stage in the reflecting pool of the courtyard and the two Belvedere rooms are available as a marriage venue.\n\n"}
{"id": "5230786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5230786", "title": "Books on British railway accidents", "text": "Books on British railway accidents\n\nThere are a number of books on British railway accidents which provide aid in the systematic study of the causes and effects of accidents, and their prevention. There are common themes in many accidents (see Classification). Key books are listed here to avoid repeating them for each individual accident.\n\nThe doyen is L. T. C. Rolt's \"Red for Danger\", first published in 1956, which takes a wide-ranging overview of over 100 accidents. Most other books concentrate on a smaller number of specific accidents, described in more detail. O.S. Nock's \"Historic Railway Disasters\" combines both approaches, with individual chapters on especially significant accidents such as Armagh and Quintinshill. For accidents in the last 30 years and modern operating practice, Stanley Hall's four books are particularly good. Apart from Schneider and Mase (1968/1970) and Faith (2001), all the books below are confined to British accidents.\n\nThe list below does not include books on individual accidents; for these, see Tay Bridge, Quintinshill, Harrow, Hixon, Moorgate and Lockington.\n\nAn extremely valuable source now on the Internet is the Railways Archive compilation of official Railway Inspectorate Accident Reports - see \"External Links\" below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1417203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1417203", "title": "Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh", "text": "Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh\n\nCarnegie Museums of Pittsburgh are four museums that are operated by the Carnegie Institute headquartered in the Carnegie Institute complex in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The Carnegie Institute complex that includes the original museum, recital hall, and library was added to the National Register of Historic Places on March 30, 1979.\n\nTwo of the Carnegie museums, the Carnegie Museum of Natural History and the Carnegie Museum of Art, are both located in the Carnegie Institute and Library complex in Oakland, a landmark building listed on the National Register of Historic Places (ref #79002158, added 1979). It also houses the Carnegie Music Hall and the main branch of the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. The other two museums, The Andy Warhol Museum and the Carnegie Science Center, are located in separate facilities on Pittsburgh's North Shore.\n\nOpened on May 15, 1994, the Andy Warhol Museum is the largest museum in the world dedicated to one artist. The museum's collection includes over 4,000 Warhol art works in all media - paintings, drawings, prints, photographs, sculptures, and installation; the entire Andy Warhol Video Collection, 228 four-minute Screen Tests, and 45 other films by Warhol; and extensive archives, most notably Warhol's Time Capsules. While dedicated to Andy Warhol, the museum also hosts many exhibits by artists who push the boundaries of art, just as Warhol did.\n\nWhen Andrew Carnegie envisioned a museum collection consisting of the \"Old Masters of tomorrow\", the Carnegie Museum of Art became, arguably, the first museum of modern art in the United States. Founded in 1895, today it continues showcasing contemporary art by staging the Carnegie International exhibition every few years. Numerous significant works from the International exhibitions have been acquired for the museums' permanent collection including Winslow Homer's \"The Wreck\" (1896) and James A. McNeill Whistler's \"Arrangement in Black: Portrait of Señor Pablo de Sarasate\" (1884). The marble Hall of Sculpture replicates the interior of the Parthenon. The Hall of Architecture contains the largest collection of plaster casts of architectural masterpieces in America and one of the three largest in the world. The Heinz Architectural Center, opened as part of the museum in 1993, is dedicated to the collection, study, and exhibition of architectural drawings and models. In 2001 the museum acquired the archive of African-American photographer Charles \"Teenie\" Harris, consisting of approximately 80,000 photographic negatives spanning from the 1930s to the 1970s. Many of these images have been catalogued and digitized and are available online via the Carnegie Museum of Art Collections Search.\n\nThe museum's permanent collection includes European and American decorative arts from the late seventeenth century to the present, works on paper, paintings, prints (notably Japanese prints), sculptures and installations.\n\nFrom the discovery of \"Diplodocus carnegii\" to the most complete \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" known to date passing by a brand new, yet-to-be-named species of oviraptorosaur, Carnegie Museum of Natural History has one of the finest dinosaur collections in the world. Other exhibits include Hillman Hall of Minerals and Gems, Alcoa Foundation Hall of American Indians, , Walton Hall of Ancient Egypt, and Benedum Hall of Geology. The museum's Powdermill Nature Reserve was established in 1956 to serve as a field station for long-term studies of natural populations, and now forms the core of the museum's Center for Biodiversity and Ecosystems. Research teams including Carnegie scientists have made critical discoveries such as \"Puijila darwini\", \"Castorocauda lutrasimilis\", and \"Hadrocodium wui\".\n\nOpened in 1991, but with a history that dates to October 24, 1939, the Carnegie Science Center is the most visited museum in Pittsburgh. Among its attractions are the newly constructed Buhl Planetarium (which features the latest in digital projection technology), the Rangos Omnimax Theater, SportsWorks, the Miniature Railroad & Village, the USS \"Requin\", a World War II submarine, and Roboworld.\n\nUnder the leadership of Robert Wilburn, Buhl Science Center merged with the Carnegie Institute, and a new $40 million Carnegie Science Center was constructed.\n\n\nVideo\n"}
{"id": "477954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477954", "title": "Cease and desist", "text": "Cease and desist\n\nA cease and desist letter is a document sent to an individual or business to stop purportedly illegal activity (\"cease\") and not to restart it (\"desist\"). The letter may warn that if the recipient does not discontinue specified conduct, or take certain actions, by deadlines set in the letter, that party may be sued. When issued by a public authority, a cease and desist letter, being \"a warning of impending judicial enforcement\", is most appropriately called a \"cease and desist order\".\n\nAlthough cease and desist letters are not exclusively used in the area of intellectual property, such letters \"are frequently utilized in disputes concerning intellectual property and represent an important feature of the intellectual property law landscape\". The holder of an intellectual property right such as a copyrighted work, a trademark, or a patent, may send the cease and desist letter to inform a third party \"of the right holders' rights, identity, and intentions to enforce the rights\". The letter may merely contain a licensing offer or may be an explicit threat of a lawsuit. A cease and desist letter often triggers licensing negotiations, and is a frequent first step towards litigation.\n\nReceiving numerous cease and desist letters may be very costly for the recipient. Each claim in the letters must be evaluated, and it should be decided whether to respond to the letters, \"whether or not to obtain an attorney's opinion letter, prepare for a lawsuit, and perhaps initiate [in case of letters regarding a potential patent infringement] a search for alternatives and the development of design-around technologies\".\n\nCease and desist letters are sometimes used to intimidate recipients and can be \"an effective tool used by corporations to chill the critical speech of gripe sites operators\". A company owning a trademark may send such letter to a gripe site operator alleging a trademark infringement, although the actual use of the trademark by the gripe site operator may fall under a fair use exception (in compliance with, in the U.S., the protection of free speech under the First Amendment).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41776880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41776880", "title": "Chak-pur", "text": "Chak-pur\n\nChak-pur are the traditional tools used in Tibetan sandpainting to produce \"mandalas\". They are conically shaped metal funnels and often have ridges down the sides. Normally about in length, they taper to a fine point and are made with varying diameter holes at the end in order to disperse the sand in a controlled way. A Tibetan monk will usually tap glide a piece of wood over the ridges in order to slowly allow the sand to emerge through the hole through the vibrations created.\n"}
{"id": "203299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203299", "title": "Changsha", "text": "Changsha\n\nChangsha (, Changsha dialect: Tsanso) is the capital and most populous city of Hunan province in the south central part of the People's Republic of China. It covers and is bordered by Yueyang and Yiyang to the north, Loudi to the west, Xiangtan and Zhuzhou to the south, Yichun and Pingxiang of Jiangxi province to the east. According to 2010 Census, Changsha has 7,044,118 residents, constituting 10.72% of the province's population. It is part of the Chang-Zhu-Tan city cluster or megalopolis.\n\nChangsha is located in the Xiang River valley plain, bordering on Luoxiao Mountains on the east, Wuling Mountains on the west, edging in Dongting Lake on the north and bounded on the south by Hengshan Mountains. It has a monsoonal humid subtropical climate, with an average annual air temperature of and an annual rainfall of .\n\nChangsha has a history of more than 3,000 years. Changsha was the capital of Changsha State in the Han Dynasty (206 BC – 220 AD), and the capital of the Chu State (907–951) in the Ten Kingdoms period. The lacquerware and Silk Texts recovered from Mawangdui (2nd century BC) there are an indication of the richness of local craft traditions. In 1904, Changsha was opened to foreign trade, and large numbers of Europeans and Americans settled there. Changsha was the site of Mao Zedong's conversion to communism. It was also the scene of major battles in the Sino-Japanese War (1931–1945) and was briefly occupied by the Japanese. Changsha is now an important commercial, manufacturing and transportation centre.\n\nThe origins of the name \"Changsha\" in unknown. The name first appears in the 11th century BC, during the reign of King Cheng of the Zhou dynasty: a vassal lord from the Changsha area sent a type of softshell turtle known as \"Changsha softshell turtle\" () to the Zhou king as a tribute. In the 2nd century AD, historian Ying Shao wrote that the Qin dynasty use of the name Changsha for the area was a continuance of its old name.\n\nDevelopment started around 3000 BC when Changsha developed with the proliferation of Longshan culture, although there is no firm evidence of such a link. Despite this, pottery and bronze ware have been discovered.\n\nIn the Central Plain region during the Zhou and Shang dynasties, Yandi and Huangdi in regards to their relationship between the Central Plains, paid a visit. Sima Qian writes in his Records of the Grand Historian \"Huangdi, loving his (oldest son) Shaohao, gave him a parcel of land, an area amounted to Changsha and surrounding land.\"\n\nEvidence exists that people lived and thrived in the area during the Bronze Age. Numerous examples of pottery and other objects have been discovered.\n\nEastern Zhou's collapse swept in turmoil with the Spring and Autumn Period (770-476BC). The Yue culture spread and took a stronghold through the region, especially through Changsha. During the height of the Warring States Period, the Chu Kingdom took a hardline nationalist and reform approach and took a large-scale military operations in South China. Chu Kingdom took control of Changsha and turned the city into an important part of the southern part of Chu. After years of war and occupation, Changsha slowly replaced Yue culture with Chu culture. In 1951-1957, archaeologists explored numerous large and medium-sized Chu tombs from the warring states era. More than 3,000 tombs have been discovered.\n\nThe city is sometimes called Qingyang () in Warring States period texts.\n\nChangsha transformed into the Changsha Kingdom. It existed as a fiefdom under the tutelage of the Qin and later the Han dynasty. Under the Qin dynasty (221–206 BC), it became a staging post for Qin expeditions into Guangdong province. By 202 BC, it was already a fortified city. During the Han dynasty, it was also the capital of Changsha Kingdom, an imperial fiefdom of the Han. From Han times (206 BC – AD 220), it held the name Linxiang County and was the seat of the Changsha commandery. The county was renamed back Changsha in 589\n\nDuring the Han dynasty the Mawangdui tombs were constructed between 186 and 165 BC. The earliest tomb (no. 2), when excavated in the 1970s, was seen to have preserved the corpse of Lady Xin Zhui in a surprisingly good condition. Also found in the tomb were the earliest versions of the Dao De Jing, the main text of Taoism, among many other historical documents.\n\nWith the collapse of the Han dynasty, China fell into turmoil amidst of the rise of the Three Kingdoms. The power base of Changsha fragmented into three factions.\n\nChangsha soon fell under control of the Jin dynasty. Emperor Wudi appointed the ruler and governor to be the sixth son of a general Sima Yi. The local government had over 100 counties at the beginning of the dynasty. Over the course of the dynasty, the local government of Changsha lost control over a few counties, leaving them to local rule.\n\nIn 589, the Sui dynasty emerged as the sole power in China. This emergence ended the northern and Southern dynasties era and reunified China once again under one government.\n\nWith the emergence of the Sui dynasty, Changsha was renamed to the name of Tanzhou. In addition, a new form of government was reintroduced. Changsha's 3-tier division system was changed to a 2-tier state and county system, eliminating the middle canton region. This new system is a significant improvement for efficiency. The existing counties in the Hunan region, including Changsha, were either outright replaced or greatly restructured. Some of the new counties created, such as Wangcheng, Liuyang, Liling still exist to this day. Neighboring town such as Xiangtan have experienced such restructure of counties that still exist to this day.\n\nThe Tang dynasty brought new prosperity and peace to Changsha. the city became a place of trade between China and Southeast Asia. Changsha experienced violence during the Anshi Rebellion when rebels swept through the area.\n\n\nChangsha was fiercely defended by local Song troops during the Mongol conquest of the Song Dynasty and, after it fell into Mongol hands an event of mass suicide by the Changsha defenders took place in the city.\n\nUnder the Ming (1368–1644) and Qing (1644–1911/12) dynasties, Changsha was made a superior prefecture. Its name was also reverted to Changsha.\n\nFrom 1664 onward, it was the capital of Hunan, prospering as one of China's chief rice markets. During the Taiping Rebellion, the city was besieged by the rebels (1854) but never fell; it then became the principal base for the suppression of the rebellion. It was opened to foreign trade in 1904. Further development followed the opening of the railway to Hankou in Hubei province in 1918, which was later extended to Guangzhou in Guangdong province in 1936. Although Changsha's population grew, the city remained primarily commercial in character and before 1937 had little industry apart from some small cotton-textile, glass, and nonferrous-metal plants and handicraft enterprises.\n\nIn 1852 Taiping forces laid a siege on Changsha through 3 months, but they subsequently gave up the offensive and moved onto Wuhan.\n\nThe 1903 Treaty of Shanghai between the Qing dynasty and Japan opened the city to foreign trade. Consequently, factories, churches and schools were built. A college was started by Yale University bachelors, which later became a medical centre named Xiangya and a secondary school named the Yali School.\n\nMao Zedong, the founder of the People's Republic of China, began his political career in Changsha. He was a student at the Hunan Number 1 Teachers' Training School from 1913 to 1918. He later returned as a teacher and principal from 1920 to 1922. The school was destroyed during the Chinese Civil War but has since been restored. The former office of the Hunan Communist Party Central Committee where Mao Zedong once lived is now a museum that includes Mao's living quarters, photographs and other historical items from the 1920s.\n\nUntil May 1927, communist support remained strong in Changsha before the massacre carried out by the right-wing faction of the KMT troops. The faction owed its allegiance to Chiang Kai-shek during its offensive against the KMT's left-wing faction under Wang Jingwei, who was then allied closely with the Communists. The purge of communists and suspected communists was part of Chiang's plans for consolidating his hold over the KMT, weakening Wang's control, and thereby over the entire China. In a period of twenty days, Chiang's forces killed more than ten thousand people in Changsha and its outskirts.\n\nDuring the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–45), the strategic location of Changsha made it the focus of four campaigns by the Japanese to capture it from the hands of the Chinese Nationalists: these campaigns were the 1st Changsha, the 2nd Changsha, the 3rd Changsha, and the 4th Changsha. The city was able to repulse the first three attacks, thanks to Xue Yue's leadership, but ultimately fell into Japanese hands in 1944 for a year until the Japanese were defeated in a counterattack and forced to surrender. Before these Japanese campaigns, the city was already virtually destroyed by the 1938 Changsha Fire, which was a deliberate fire ordered by Kuomintang commanders who mistakenly feared the city was about to fall to the Japanese; Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek had suggested that the city should be burned so that the Japanese force would gain nothing after entering it.\n\nThe city later became the territory of then-expanding Communist China when it was finally completed in 1949 after the Kuomintang were driven to Taiwan.\n\nSince the late 1990s, Changsha has rapidly developed, becoming one of the important cities in the central and western regions. At the end of 2007, Changsha, with Xiangtan, Zhuzhou was approved by the State Council for the Chang-Zhu-Tan \" (Greater Changsha) resource-saving and environment-friendly society\" comprehensive reform pilot area, an important engine of the rise of central China. In 2015, Xiangjiang New Area was approved as a national new district\n\nChangsha is located in the northeast of Hunan Province, the lower reaches of the Xiang River and the western part of the \"Changliu Basin\". It lies between 111°53′ to 114°15′ east longitude and 27°51′ to 28°41′ north latitude. The city borders Yichun and Pingxiang of Jiangxi Province in the east, Zhuzhou and Xiangtan in the south, Loudi and Yiyang in the west, and Yueyang and Yiyang in the north. It is about 230 kilometres from east to west and about 88 kilometres from north to south. Changsha covers an area of , of which the urban area of , the urban built-up area is . The highest point in Changsha is \"Mount Qixing\" () located in Daweishan Town, . The lowest point is Zhanhu () in Qiaokou Town, .\n\nThe Xiang is the main river in the city, it runs from south to north throughout the territory. There are 15 tributaries flowing into the Xiang River, of which Liuyang, Laodao, Jinjiang and Wei are the four largest tributaries in Changsha. The Xiang River divides the city proper into two parts of the west and the east, The eastern part is mainly commercial area and the west is mainly cultural and educational area. On October 10, 2001, the seat of Changsha City was transferred from \"Fanzheng Street\" to \"Guanshaling\". Since then, the economy of both sides of the Xiang River has achieved a balanced development.\n\nChangsha has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen \"Cfa\"), with annual average temperature being at , with a mean of in January and in July. Average annual precipitation is , with a 275-day frost-free period. With a monthly possible-sunshine percentage ranging from 19% in March to 57% in August, the city receives 1,545 hours of bright sunshine annually. The four seasons are distinct. The summers are long and very hot, with heavy rainfall, and autumn is comfortable and is the driest season. Winter is chilly and overcast with lighter rainfall more likely than downpours; cold snaps occur with temperatures occasionally dropping below freezing. Spring is especially rainy and humid with the sun shining less than 30% of the time. The minimum temperature ever recorded since 1951 at the current Wangchengpo Weather Observing Station was , recorded on 9 February 1972. The maximum was on 13 August 1953 and 2 August 2003 [the unofficial record of was set on 10 August 1934].\nThe municipality of Changsha exercises jurisdiction over 6 districts, 1 county and 2 county-level cities:\n\nThe current CPC Party Secretary of Changsha is Hu Henghua and the current Mayor is Hu Zhongxiong.\n\nChangsha is well connected by roads, river, rail, and air transportation modes, and is a regional hub for industrial, tourist, and service sectors.\n\nThe city's public transportation system consists of an extensive bus network with over a hundred lines as well as taxis.\n\nChangsha Metro is planning a 6-line network. Metro Line 2 opened on 29 April 2014 with 20 stations for Line 2 now open on 28 June 2016. A further four lines are planned for construction before the year 2025. Line 3 will run southwest–northeast and will be long. Line 4 will run northwest-southeast and will be long. A maglev link running between Changsha South station and Changsha airport was opened in April 2016, with a construction cost of €400m. Connecting Changsha with Zhuzhou and Xiangtan, Changzhutan Intercity Rail has been opened to traffic operations on December 26, 2016.\nThe G4, G4E, G4W2, G5513 and G0401 of National Expressways, G107, G106 and G319 of National Highways, S20, S21, S40, S41, S50, S60 and S71 of Hunan provincial Expressways, connect the Changsha metro area nationally. There are three main bus terminals in Changsha: the South Station, East Station and West Station, dispatching long- and short-haul trips to cities within and outside the province of Hunan.\n\nChangsha is surrounded by major rivers, including the Xiang River (湘江) and its tributaries such as the Liuyang, Jin, Wei, Longwanggang and Laodao Rivers. Ships transport mainly goods from Xianing port located in North Changsha domestically and internationally.\n\nChangsha Railway Station is located in the city center and provides express and regular services to most cities in China via the Beijing–Guangzhou and Shimen–Changsha Railways. The Changsha South Railway Station is a new high speed railway station, located in Yuhua district on the Beijing–Guangzhou High-Speed Railway (as part of the planned Beijing–Guangzhou–Shenzhen–Hong Kong High-Speed Railway). The station with 8 platforms was finally opened on 26 December 2009. Since then the passenger volume has increased greatly. The Hangzhou-Changsha-Huaihua sector of the Shanghai-Changsha-Kunming high-speed railway entered service in 2014.\n\nChangsha Huanghua International Airport is a regional hub for China Southern Airlines. The airport serves daily flights to major cities in China, including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, as well as Hong Kong, Macau and Taipei. Other major airlines also provide daily service between Changsha and other domestic and international destinations.The airport provides direct flights to 45 major international cities including Los Angeles, Singapore, Seoul, Pusan, Osaka, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur, London (Heathrow Airport), Frankfurt and Sydney. , the airport daily handled 70,011 people.\n\nChangsha's population nearly tripled between the start of its rebuilding in 1949 and the early 1980s. The city is now a major port, handling rice, cotton, timber, and livestock, and is also a collection and distribution point on the railway from Hankou to Guangzhou. It is a centre of rice milling and also has oil-extraction, tea and tobacco production, and meat-processing plants. Its textile industry produces cotton yarn and fabrics and engages in dyeing and printing. Agricultural chemicals and fertilizers, farm implements, and pumping machinery are also produced.\n\nChangsha has a large thermal generating station linked by a power grid with the nearby industrial centres of Zhuzhou and Xiangtan; the three cities were designated in the 1970s as the nucleus of a major industrial complex. In the 1960s there was some development of heavy industry. The manufacture of machinery, especially machine tools and precision tools, became important, and Changsha became a center of China's aluminum industry. The city also has cement, rubber, ceramic, and papermaking plants and is a centre for many types of traditional handicrafts, producing Xiang embroidery, leather goods, umbrellas, and buttons. Coal is mined in the vicinity.\nChangsha is one of China's 20 most \"economically advanced\" cities. In 2008, Changsha's nominal GDP was ¥300.1 billion (US$43 billion), a year-on-year growth of 15.1% from the previous year. Its per capita GDP was ¥45,765 (US$6,589). Its GDP grew at an average of 14% per year from 2001 to 2005, compared to the national average of 9% in the period. , the service sector generated roughly around 49% of Changsha's GDP, up 112% from 2001 figures, leading to a disposable income for urban residents of 12,343 RMB annually. This growth is expected to continue driving the city's economic growth. The manufacturing and construction sectors have grown relatively steadily, growing 116% during 2001-2005. The primary sector, including agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, and fishery, has grown slightly over this same period. In addition, the consumer market has grown dramatically along with income levels, with the minimum salary level at 600 RMB per month in comparison to Beijing's at 640 RMB or Shanghai's at 750 RMB per month. Urban residents in 2005 had an average income of about US$1,500, 15% higher than the national average and up 10% from 2001 figures.\n\nChangsha has attracted a substantial level of foreign investment. In 2005, for example, nearly US$1 billion worth of foreign direct investment (FDI) poured into the city, mainly in hi-tech, manufacturing, food production, and services. This figure is up 40% from 2001. 59% of the total FDI has come from Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore, and Japan; 28% has come from the Americas and 9% from Europe. By the end of 2008 more than 500 foreign companies had made over US$10 million worth of investments in Changsha. Changsha had total retail sales of 74 RMB billion in 2006.\n\nBut rapid economic growth has made environmental pollution a serious problem in Changsha, caused by rapidly increasing numbers of private cars, widespread construction sites, and numerous industrial facilities on the outskirts of the city.\n\nOn 20 July 2013, the Sky City skyscraper broke ground. A groundbreaking ceremony of the building was held. At completion it will be the new world's tallest skyscraper. The planned final height is 838 meters with 220 floors. The Broad Sustainable Building company, which specializes in the rapid construction of large buildings, planned to complete construction in early 2014. However, the project was halted by the authorities on 24 July 2013 due to its having started construction without prior law permits. Some experts also questioned the safety of the 838-meter skyscraper's being built in only 7 months. On 4 September 2013, China.com.cn reported that the project had begun environmental assessment for obtaining the official planning approval for the project. By 30 October the building was already in the final approval phase.\n\nOn 8 June 2016 it was reported by the People's Daily that the project had been finally cancelled due to protests over environmental damage to the Daze Lake wetland.\n\nThe Changsha ETZ was founded in 1992. It is located in Xingsha, the eastern Changsha. The total planned area is and the current area is . Near the zone are National Highways 319 and 107 as well as the G4 Beijing–Hong Kong–Macau Expressway. The zone is also very close to Changsha's downtown area and the railway station, while the distance between the zone and the city's airport is a mere . The major industries in the zone include the high-tech industry, the biology project technology industry, and the new material industry.\n\nThe Liuyang ETZ is a national biological industry base created on 10 January 1998, located in Dongyang Town. Its pillar industry comprises biological pharmacy, Information technology and Health food. , It has more than 700 registered enterprises. The total industrial output value of the zone hits 85.6 billion yuan (US$13.7 billion) and its business income is 100.2 billion yuan (US$16.1 billion). Its builtup area covers .\n\nChangsha has an urban population of 7,044,118. A total of 12,966,836 reside in the metropolitan area.\n\nThe majority of people living in Changsha are Han Chinese. A sizeable population of several ethnic minority groups also make Changsha home. The three largest minorities, the Hui, Tujia, and Miao peoples, make up sizeable sub-populations in the city. The 2000 census shows that a total of 48,564 people who are members of ethnic minorities live in Changsha. The other minorities make up a significantly smaller part of the population. Twenty ethnic minorities have fewer than 1000 individuals living in the city.\n\nHunan Broadcasting System is China's largest television after China Central Television (CCTV). Its headquarters is in Changsha and produces some of the most popular programs in China, including \"Super Girl\". These programs have also brought a new entertainment industry into the city, which includes singing bars, dance clubs, theater shows, as well as related businesses including hair salons, fashion stores, and shops for hot spicy snacks at night (especially during summer). While Changsha has developed into an entertainment hub, the city has also become increasingly westernized and has attracted a growing number of foreigners.\n\nThere are various types of cuisine found in Changsha, yet Hunan cuisine remains to be the most popular genre. Hot and spicy food is typical of the region.\n\nIn addition, street food is also popular. Changsha Stinky Tofu is always identified as the icon of Changsha Street food and is renowned in the nation.\n\nThe city has its own Siu yeh culture.\n\nIn May 2008, the BBC broadcast, as part of its \"Storyville\" documentary series, the four-part \"The Biggest Chinese Restaurant in the World\", which explored the inner workings of the 5,000-seating-capacity West Lake Restaurant (\"Xihu Lou Jiujia\") in Changsha.\n\nChangsha has one of China's largest multi-purpose sports stadiums—Helong Stadium, with 55,000 seats. The stadium was named after the Communist military leader He Long. It is the home ground of local football team Hunan Billows F.C., which plays in China League Two. The more modest 6,000-seat Hunan Provincial People's Stadium, also located in Changsha, is used by the team for their smaller games.\n\nChangsha hosts the Hunan Provincial Museum. 180,000 historical significant artifacts franginng from the Zhou dynasty to the recent Qing Dynasty are hosted in the 51,000 acres of space in the museum.\n\nMawangdui is a well-known tomb located 22 kilometers east of Changsha. It was discovered with numerous artifacts from the Han dynasty. Numerous Silk Funeral banners surround the tomb, along with a wealth of classical texts. The tomb of Lady Dai lies in Mawangdui is well known due to its well-preserved state: scientists were able to detect blood, conduct an autopsy and determined that she died of heart disease due to a poor diet.\n\nChangsha is a sister city with St. Paul, Minnesota. St. Paul is developing a China garden at Phalen Park, based on the design of architects from Changsha. Current plans include a pavilion replicating one in Changsha, while in return St. Paul will send the city five statues of the \"Peanuts\" characters. They will be placed in Phalen's sister park, Yanghu Wetlands.\n\nChangsha is the seat of many ancient schools and academies. It is the site of the Hunan Medical University (1914) and has several colleges and institutes of higher learning.\n\nNational\nPublic\n\"Note: Institutions without full-time bachelor programs are not listed.\"\n\n\n\n\nGreater Changsha Metropolitan Region is the birthplace of:\n\nChangsha is represented by the star Zeta Corvi in a Chinese constellation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52227417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52227417", "title": "Cheerleading in Australia", "text": "Cheerleading in Australia\n\nIn Australia, competitive cheerleading is a rapidly growing sport. \nPrior to 2000, cheerleading was primarily known as the dance-and-pom style displayed by professional cheer squads for NRL rugby. The US movie \"Bring It On\" (released December 2000 in Australia) popularised acrobatic-style cheerleading, and has been credited with sparking subsequent development as a competitive sport.\n\nDuring the 2000s and 2010s, the style of cheerleading seen as pre-game and half-time sideline entertainment at professional rugby matches continued to attract criticism for objectifying women, and some clubs discontinued their cheer teams. For example, the Canterbury Bulldogs in 2013 announced they would cease their relationship with the studio contracted to provide their cheer team, the \"Belles\". The next day, when journalists sought comment from other football clubs, the chief executive of the Canberra Raiders stated that they were \"reviewing the club's game-day entertainment\". He denied the move was based around any female exploitation, rather citing cost as a factor.\n\nThe Australian Cheerleading Union (ACU), founded in 2008 and managed by Gymnastics Australia (GA), was recognised as the official body by both the International Cheer Union (ICU) and by the Australian Sports Commission (ASC).\n\nGA recognised Cheerleading (code CHL) as a \"gymsport\" alongside artistic, rhythmic, trampoline, acrobatic, and aerobic gymnastics. Cheer has similarities to acrobatic and floor gymnastics. Acrobatic Gymnastics (code ACR), also involves partner or group lifts, balance, and throws. Floor, which involves tumbling and balancing, is one of four disciplines that compose Women's Artistic Gymnastics (WAG) and one of six in Men's Artistic Gymnastics (MAG). All three (ACR, WAG, and MAG) are governed internationally by the Federation Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG), whereas cheerleading is governed by the ICU.\n\nIn December 2017, GA resolved to cease being the governing body for cheerleading in Australia, with an exit process to proceed through 2018. \n\nAs in the United States, the US All Star Federation (USASF) and its international version, the IASF, function as \"de facto\" governing bodies. Whereas the ICU world championships only allow one national team in each event from a given country, the USASF worlds accept all teams that have won bids from local championship competitions. Hence USASF coaching credentials and competition rules are seen as highly desirable. \n\nThe Australian All Star Cheerleading Federation (AASCF) is affiliated with USASF/IASF and has promoted the use of their rules in Australia.\n\nThe Australian Cheer Sport Alliance (ACSA) was formed in 2017, with board members from Gymnastics Australia, , Australian All Star Cheer Federation, and Aussie Gold. It is promoted as \"Australia's Peak Body\" for cheerleading. \n\nIn early 2018, in response to GA's withdrawal, ACSA applied to the ICU to be the officially \"recognised body for cheerleading in Australia\".\n\nACSA runs a \"Sanctioned Events\" program to accredit event organisers that meet its safety and competition standards.\n\nUSASF coach credentialing is provided in Australia by The Australian All Star Cheer Federation (AASCF), and previously also by World Cup Cheer and Dance (WCCD). From 2018, Aussie Gold also provides coach accreditation. \n\nAs at 2018, some competition events accept either Gymnastics Australia (Coach Education Framework for Cheerleading) or USASF accreditation for coaches.\n\nMost competition events follow USASF/IASF rules for age divisions, difficulty levels, and terminology.\n\nAs in the USA, cheer teams are grouped into classes based on a combination of age, level, and team size. Certain categories are also separated into \"all-girl\" (females only) and \"co-ed\" (mixture of females and males) groups. For large events, organizers can choose to additionally split on studio size, depending on the number of teams registered. The aim is to have a manageable number of teams in each group. \n\nFor example, a team might compete in \"Youth level 1 small-gym\", or \"Senior Co-ed level 5\". \n\nDance categories are grouped by age but not level. \n\nAll-star age groups are based on the competitors' ages at 31 December, that is, how many years old they turn at their birthday during the given calendar year. (In contrast, USASF has used age at May or August for normal divisions and December 31 for International divisions.) \n\nOverlap in the age divisions means that athletes can compete as members of multiple teams. For example, a 10-year-old can perform in youth, junior &/or senior teams. \n\nDifficulty or safety levels are most often based on USASF rules, starting from \"Novice\" (similar to USASF \"Prep\") followed by levels 1 to 6. Level \"4.2\" combines level-4 stunts with level-2 tumbling. \n\nThere is also a division for teams having competitors with Special Needs. These are more usually seen in the Group Stunt category, which has a smaller team size than Team Cheer. \nFor each level, there are detailed lists of allowed and disallowed moves in tumbling, stunts, pyramids, and tosses. This enables teams to compete with others at the same level of ability, and disallowing more difficult moves prevents competitors from dangerously attempting moves beyond their ability.\n\nScoring systems vary depending on the event organiser. \n\nAt AASCF competitions, the components of cheer routines – standing and running tumbling, jumps, stunts, pyramids, and tosses – are scored separately out of 5.0 for difficulty and for technique. Stunts and pyramids are also scored for creativity, so they are worth 15.0 instead of 10.0 points. Building skills (stunts, pyramids, tosses) account for 45 points out of 100 (35 of 90 at Level 1 where there are no tosses); tumble skills (tumbling and jumps) for 30 points; and an additional 25 points are scored on dance break, overall routine composition and performance. Points are deducted for falls and rule violations.\n\nIn 2015, four event organisers formulated a common scoring system which they named the \"Australian Independent Scoring System\" (AISS), also known as the AIEP scoring system.\n\nUnder this system, scores are apportioned as follows: \n\nThe major cheer competitions in Australia are run by cheer federations and by independent event organisers. Events run from March through to October, in line with the Southern-hemisphere school year. \n\n"}
{"id": "4218643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4218643", "title": "Conjunctive archaeology", "text": "Conjunctive archaeology\n\nConjunctive archaeology is a method of studying of the past developed by Walter Taylor in the 1940s that combined elements of both traditional archaeology and the allied field of anthropology. It is exemplified by Taylor's \"A Study of Archeology\" (1948).\n\nTaylor saw archaeology as an integrated discipline, combining the study of diet, settlement patterns, tools and other elements to provide a holistic view of the past. Elements of Taylor's approach are now a standard practice in the discipline, but Taylor's open and specific criticism of leading archaeologists of his day caused dismay amongst many archaeologists.\n\nTaylor was one of the first to criticize the descriptive, historical approaches to archaeology that dominated the discipline. According to Patty Jo Watson, Taylor's purpose \"was not to generate ill will but rather to stimulate examination ... of aims, goals and purposes by American archaeologists\".\n\nWalter Taylor was the founder of conjunctive archaeology. He was born in Chicago and studied at Yale. He saw archaeology as a discipline that was multifaceted, and tried to focus on Anthropology and Archaeology to form a well-balanced and all-consuming study. He was frustrated by the focus of his contemporaries on typologies, chronological reconstructions, and other elements of archaeology that he saw as formalist and restricting. He put forward his polemical ideas in \"A Study of Archaeology\", which served as a critique of culture-historical archaeology and put forward his prescription of a conjunctive archaeology. Taylor was reacting to what he saw as his contemporaries' limited use of artifacts to produce culture chronologies and identify groups as opposed to their stated goals of reconstructing prehistory. In response, he offered that archaeologists should focus more on quantitative data and spatial distributions of artifacts and features within sites. Part of this new focus on sites as units of analysis would require the collection of what might have appeared as trivial data, as well as paying better attention to things like paleoenvironmental data. All this was done with the aim of developing comparative approaches at the site level and beyond.\n\nTaylor's \"A Study of Archaeology\" provided a number of early impacts. First, it was a history of Americanist archaeology. Alongside V. Gordon Childe and especially Grahame Clark, he envisaged an archaeology that saw the necessary goal of archaeology as the reconstruction of prehistoric lifeways with a focus on cultures as \"functioning entities embracing social, political, and ideological as well as economic components that the archaeologist must try to study holistically from the inside\".\n\nPerhaps conjunctive archaeology's most unique legacy was being among the first rigorous attempts at examining archaeology through the lens of Boasian anthropology. Utilizing this lens, Taylor departed from Childe's and Clark's more materialist aims (the former working in something of a Marxist tradition and the latter in an early form of a paleoenvironmental approach). Anticipating psychological anthropology, Taylor held an idealist vision of human culture and sought to learn about the beliefs and ideologies of past peoples through material culture.\n\nThe influence of conjunctive archaeology on the field is somewhat controversial. Taylor claimed until he died that his ideas were a major theoretical contribution that anticipated and directly contributed to The New Archaeology. Perhaps the most public and central debate on the topic of conjunctive archaeology's influence on later archaeologists was the extended debate in publications between Taylor and the major processual theorist Lewis Binford. Taylor claimed that his ideas included testing of hypotheses and a systems approach decades before processual archaeology.\n\nTaylor's claims are very difficult to assess. While he clearly shared some goals with the later processualists, he also very evidently diverged from them in crucial theoretical ways. The core difference was his reliance on Boas. The idealist conception of culture that Taylor put forward via Boas is at odds with the more materialist aims of the processualists. Perhaps the core separation between processualists and Walter Taylor is the latter's ambivalence if not rejection of the idea of Material culture. Taylor instead believed that all culture was ideational and that artifacts merely reflected it.\n\nSome scholars have contributed to an edited volume reflecting on Taylor's impact in an ambivalent way. In this book, the argument is partially laid out that Taylor's work might have had influence on Post-processual archaeology rather than processual, given his focus on ideational elements of culture as well as his deep conviction of the importance of a historical and historiographic approach (as compared to the processualists' aims for objectivity).\n\nPerhaps the most difficult part of interpreting Taylor's influence on the discipline as a whole is that neither he nor anyone else ever produced a substantive work within the framework of conjunctive archaeology. While his theoretical goals were clear, Taylor's methodology was left somewhat vague. Because of the multifaceted nature of Taylor's work and the fact that his work unites many strains of archaeology that are today seen as being at odds, Taylor's legacy in the field will likely always be at least somewhat controversial.\n\n"}
{"id": "17691242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17691242", "title": "Contemporary reaction to Ignaz Semmelweis", "text": "Contemporary reaction to Ignaz Semmelweis\n\nDr. Ignaz Semmelweis discovered in 1847 that hand-washing with a solution of chlorinated lime reduced the incidence of fatal childbed fever tenfold in maternity institutions. However, the reaction of his contemporaries was not positive; his subsequent mental disintegration led to him being confined to an insane asylum, where he died in 1865.\n\nSemmelweis's critics claimed his findings lacked scientific reasoning. The failure of the nineteenth-century scientific community to recognize Semmelweis's findings, and the nature of the flawed critiques outlined below, helped advance a positivist epistemology, leading to the emergence of evidence-based medicine.\n\nTo a modern reader, Semmelweis's experimental findings—that chlorine washings reduced childbed fever—seem obvious, and it may seem absurd that his claims were rejected on the grounds of purported lack of \"scientific reasoning\". His unpalatable observational evidence was only accepted when seemingly unrelated work by Louis Pasteur in Paris some two decades later offered a theoretical explanation for Semmelweis's observations: the germ theory of disease.\n\nAs such, the Semmelweis story is often used in university courses with epistemology content, e.g. philosophy of science courses - demonstrating the virtues of empiricism or positivism and providing a historical account of which types of knowledge count as scientific (and thus accepted) knowledge, and which do not.\n\nIt is an irony that Semmelweis's critics considered themselves positivists. They could not accept his ideas of \"minuscule and largely invisible amounts of decaying organic matter\" as a cause of every case of childbed fever. To them, \"Semmelweis seemed to be reverting to the speculative theories of earlier decades that were so repugnant to his positivist contemporaries\".\n\nThe positivistic contempt for theoretical deliberations is evident in these two quotations. The first from the highly celebrated anatomist Rudolf Virchow who said, \"Explorers of nature recognize no bugbears other than individuals who speculate\"\n, and Johann Lucas Boër said: \"If every century could produce one physician as observant (as Hippocrates) rather than so many who are educated in theoretical systems, how much more would have been achieved for humanity and for animal life generally\".\n\n(For an example of an earlier dead-end speculative theory that had halted scientific development, see phlogiston).\n\nSemmelweis's key claim was that physicians contaminated their hands with \"cadaveric particles\" in the morgue while conducting autopsies. He pointed out that ordinary washings with soap did not remove these particles, because the hands could retain a stench for several days in spite of such washings. When physicians later carried out gynaecological examinations, the cadaveric particles were absorbed by the patient, in particular if they came into contact with the freshly exposed uterus, or with genital tract lesions caused by the birth process. Semmelweis was convinced that every case of childbed fever was caused by resorption of cadaveric particles. With this etiology, Semmelweis identified childbed fever as purely an iatrogenic disease—that is, one \"caused\" by doctors. (Friedrich Wilhelm Scanzoni von Lichtenfels took personal offense at this, and never forgave Semmelweis for it—Scanzoni remained one of the most ardent critics of Semmelweis.)\n\nA few childbed fever case stories, described below, did not fit well into Semmelweis's theory and led him to expand it, also to comprise other types of decaying organic matter, for instance secretions from an infected knee or from a cancer tumor.\n\nIn a case of discharging cancer of the innermost part of the uterus, Semmelweis wrote:\nIn October 1847, a patient was admitted with discharging medullary carcinoma [cancer of the innermost part] of the uterus. She was assigned the bed at which the rounds were always initiated. After examining this patient, those conducting the examination washed their hands with soap only. The consequence was that of twelve patients then delivering, eleven died. The ichor from the discharging medullary carcinoma was not destroyed by soap and water. … Thus, childbed fever is caused not only by cadaverous particles adhering to hands but also by ichor from living organisms.\n\nAnd in a case of a discharging carious knee, he wrote:\nA new tragic experience persuaded me that air could also carry decaying organic matter. In November of the same year, an individual was admitted with a discharging carious left knee. […] the ichorous exhalations of the carious knee completely saturated the air of her ward. In this way the other patients were exposed and nearly all the patients in that room died. […] The ichorous particles that saturated the air of the maternity ward penetrated the uteruses already lacerated in the birth process. The particles were resorbed, and childbed fever resulted.\n\nEven with the most meticulous chlorine-washings there seemed to be an unavoidable mortality rate of about 1 percent. He therefore suggested that self-infection took place - that internally generated cadaveric particles were responsible, for instance tissue crushed in the birth process and eventually turning gangrenous.\n\nMost of the objections from Semmelweis's critics stemmed from his claim, that every case of childbed fever was caused by resorption of cadaveric particles. Some of Semmelweis's first critics even responded that he had said nothing new - it had long been known that cadaveric contamination could cause childbed fever. But this was only one of many possible causes for childbed fever. The findings from autopsies of deceased women also showed a confusing multitude of various symptoms, which emphasised the belief that puerperal fever was not \"one\" disease, but rather many different diseases, which remained unidentified. Semmelweis's critics were also quick to point out that he had virtually no evidence for his self-infection theory.\n\nThe quotes below are so selected to demonstrate the speculative theoretical nature of the objections to Semmelweis's theory. The quotes are from a publication by Carl Edvard Marius Levy, a Danish obstetrician, who attacked Semmelweis's findings on such grounds. The first quote shows the improbable, shabbily researched and poorly argued nature of Semmelweis's claim, that there is only one universal cause for the disease.\n\n...Above all it is to be regretted that neither the observations nor the opinions grounded on them are presented with the clarity and precision that would be desirable in such an important matter of etiology. To presume that corpses can and do infect, without considering whether the infection is derived from puerperae or from other corpses, is as much a consequence of unrecognized a priori assumptions as of the cited facts. A strict examination would absolutely require that different sources of infection be taken into account and provide the basis for a classification of the observations. From a scientific point of view, particularly regarding the question of the contagiousness of puerperal fever, it is important to know whether the presumed cadaveric infection is to be ascribed only to puerperal cadaverous matter or rather to all cadaverous effluvium in general. ..[...]... It would be enlightening, insofar as the discussion concerns only puerperal corpses, to consider whether the contagium is present in the superficial parts, since we are concerned with the products of a disease assumed to be transferable to nearby predisposed persons. On the other hand, if the infective matter can originate from all corpses, one must give up every notion of a specific contagium and look instead for an infection of the blood mass.\n\n... if Dr. Semmelweis had limited his opinion regarding infections from corpses to puerperal corpses, I would have been less disposed to denial than I am. ...[...]... the specific contagium seems to be of little importance to Dr. Semmelweis. Indeed it is so little considered that he does not even discuss the direct transmission of the disease from those who are ill to healthy persons lying nearby. He is concerned only with general infection from corpses without respect to the disease that led to death. In this respect his opinion seems improbable.\nDoctors and students did wash hands with soap and water and the hands were visibly clean before examinations. How could contaminants in such infinitesimal amounts possibly cause such damage?\n\nWhy were simpler and more reliable experiments not considered?\nTo prove his opinion, Dr. Semmelweis ordered chlorine washings to destroy every trace of cadaverous residue on the fingers. Would not the experiment have been simpler and more reliable if it had been arranged, at least during the experiment, that all anatomical work would be avoided?\n\nLevy suggests that the decrease in deaths could be due to random variation:\nIn spite of these reservations, one must admit that the results of the experiment appear to support Dr. Semmelweis's opinion, but certainly one must admit no more. Everyone who has had the opportunity to observe the periodic variations in the mortality rate of maternity clinics will agree that his findings lack certain important confirmation. ...[...]... In the absence of more precise statistical information, it is conceivable that the results of the last seven months depend partially on periodic accidental factors …\n\nSemmelweis's critics were also quick to point out that he had virtually no evidence for his self-infection theory. In particular, it seemed unlikely that the two women could have infected other patients without becoming infected themselves:\n... the first case [the woman with a carious knee] is clearly inconsistent with the possibility of infection [since presumably she must have infected herself], while the second case [the woman with the cancer in her uterus] remains strikingly unclear. Could ichor from this patient have been more damaging when conveyed in vaginal examinations to other patients than it would have been as a result of similar examinations carried out on this patient herself? In our hospital we have frequently recorded ichorous sores on the feet of delivering patients without having noticed any subsequent infections, either of those patients themselves or of other patients. Dr. Semmelweis places great emphasis on the better health of institutions exclusively for the education of midwives; he should consider that ichorous secretions occur equally in both institutions. Moreover, in an institution as large as the midwife clinic in Vienna, one or another of the patients must always be ill and so provide a source of infection. If the infection occurs as easily as he believes, this would reduce the inequality in mortality rates between the clinics.\n\nIn conclusion Professor Levy writes: \n\nThese were not the only objections to Semmelweis' theory. Critics also blamed his theory of infectious particulates on his Catholic faith. They said his idea that invisible particles could cause disease and death was simply a product of his Catholic superstition. Many of his critics argued that the presence of Catholic priests bearing the Eucharist to dying patients was deeply frightening, and this fright induced child-bed fever. Semmelweis tested this theory by keeping priests out of one ward while admitting them to a second: no difference in illness or mortality was observed. Despite this, the critics continued to hold that Semmelweis' religion was the actual cause of the deadly disease.\n\nThe Levy paper was first published in 1848, in a Danish journal. A translation was published in Germany by Gustav Adolf Michaelis in 1850. The actual impact on the medical community of the criticism is unclear. Semmelweis only learned of the essay in 1858 but evidently finds it significant enough to address it thoroughly in his 1861 publication. The purpose of quoting the Levy paper is that it demonstrates the nature of the criticism, in particular the intricate theoretical reasoning that completely overshadowed Semmelweis' experimental results.\n\nToday it is well known that Semmelweis was wrong about the theory of cadaveric contamination. What Semmelweis did not know is that chlorinated lime not only destroys the stench on contaminated hands, but also the bacteria there—the germ theory of disease had yet to be discovered. Many of the epidemics of childbed fever were probably caused by streptococcus infections—either \"type A\", which is commonly found in the throat and nasopharynx of otherwise healthy carriers, or \"type B\", which lives on the skin. Type B is also found in the genitals of about 5–30% of pregnant women. It is therefore necessary for the physician to disinfect their hands before every examination and not, as Semmelweis thought, only after visits to the morgue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26165886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26165886", "title": "Cuello", "text": "Cuello\n\nCuello is a Maya archaeological site in northern Belize. The site is that of a farming village with a long occupational history. It was originally dated to 2000 BC, but these dates have now been corrected and updated to around 1200 BC. Its inhabitants lived in pole-and-thatch houses that were built on top of low plaster-coated platforms. The site contains residential groups clustered around central patios. It also features the remains of a steam bath dating to approximately 900 BC, making it the oldest steam bath found to date in the Maya lowlands. Human burials have been associated with the residential structures; the oldest have no surviving burial relics, but from 900 BC onwards, they were accompanied by offerings of ceramic vessels.\n\nAccording to some sources, ceramics from the earliest phase of the settlement at Cuello already belonged to an established lowland Maya pottery tradition. Other scholars disagree, and consider that the earliest Cuello pottery was of the Swasey type, starting at 1200 BC, with a lack of clear parallels.\n\nAlthough Cuello appears to have been a typical, relatively unimportant rural village in the Preclassic era, it participated in regional trade networks with obsidian being imported from the Maya highlands from 800 BC onwards, and a small amount of jade arriving in the community a few centuries later.\n\nCuello is located two miles Yo Creek Road in the Orange Walk District. It sits on the private land of the Cuello Family but permissions are granted to visit the site.\n\nUncorrected radiocarbon dates from the lowest stratigraphic levels of the site returned dates as far back as 2600 BC, although these were viewed as controversial.\n\nThe site was investigated in the 1970s and 1980s by archaeologist Norman Hammond. Structure 326 was excavated in 1980 and measures . The walls of the building were made of thin poles tied together with vines. This was then coated in a smoothed layer of clay and finished with a white lime wash.\n\nArchaeological investigation has revealed that the diet of the Preclassic occupants of Cuello consisted of less than 30% maize, compared with up to 75% for the modern Maya. White-tailed deer made up over half the meat in their diet, followed by freshwater turtles and domestic dogs, the last of which represents 7% of the animal remains found at the site.\n\nTwo Late Preclassic mass burial areas have been uncovered at Cuello, one of which contained 26 or more males who had been sacrificed. Healed fractures on the bones suggest that they may have been captured warriors. Further evidence of local warfare comes from evidence of burnt buildings at the site.\n\nA number of elite burials have been excavated at Cuello. The earliest phases of the Middle Classic included both adults and children accompanied by offerings of jade and shell ornaments, indicating social differentiation. High-status burials tended to be associated with specific locations throughout the history of the site.\n\nBurial 160 is an elite burial that has been dated to 500–400 BC. It consists of an individual interred in a cist, accompanied by two ceramic vessels and ornaments that included tubes fashioned from deer bones and engraved with a mat design that in later times became associated with royalty. There was also the upper portion of a human skull that had been fashioned into a plaque. Due to these distinguishing features of the burial, the excavators concluded that it was that of a Middle Classic ruler of the settlement. The site of this burial remained important in later times, with the residential patio being converted into a ceremonial platform upon which was built a small pyramid temple.\n\nThe earliest pottery found in Belize is in the western part of the country, in places like Cahal Pech and Blackman Eddy. At the northern sites, the pottery is now believed to have come somewhat later. The earliest Cuello pottery found is of the Swasey type, starting at about 1200 BC. While the known \"Xe ceramics\" of the Pasion River drainage date from the similar time period, there are significant differences between these and the Swasey/Bladen ceramics.\n\n"}
{"id": "42724701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42724701", "title": "Folkton Drums", "text": "Folkton Drums\n\nThe Folkton Drums are a unique set of decorated chalk objects in the shape of drums or solid cylinders dating from the Neolithic period. Found in a child's grave near the village of Folkton in northern England, they are now on loan to Stonehenge Visitor Centre from the British Museum.\n\nIn 1889, a round prehistoric barrow was opened by the scholar and amateur archaeologist William Greenwell near Folkton in North Yorkshire. Inside, he found a neolithic grave dating to the time of Stonehenge, estimated to be between 2600 and 2000 BC. The remains of several bodies were unearthed, one of whom was a child beside which the three drums were found. The rarity of this find (no other similar artifact is known from Europe) suggests that the child came from an elite group in society. Four years after the discovery, the drums were donated by Greenwell, along with other parts of his collection, to the British Museum.\n\nThe three drum-like forms are made of chalk (that was quarried locally) and are decorated with stylized human faces and geometric patterns. On the top of the cylinders are a series of concentric circles and two of them have pairs of eyes that schematically denote a human face. The design of the drums is similar to objects made in the Beaker culture and early bronze age. The purpose of the drums is unknown, although the faces may represent important members of the local clan or they may be a type of children's toy that has uniquely survived, when most would have been made of wood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28866471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28866471", "title": "Hugo Award", "text": "Hugo Award\n\nThe Hugo Awards are a set of literary awards given annually for the best science fiction or fantasy works and achievements of the previous year. The awards are named after Hugo Gernsback, the founder of the pioneering science fiction magazine \"Amazing Stories\", and were officially named the Science Fiction Achievement Awards until 1992. Organized and overseen by the World Science Fiction Society, the awards are given each year at the annual World Science Fiction Convention as the central focus of the event. They were first given in 1953, at the 11th World Science Fiction Convention, and have been awarded every year since 1955. Over the years that the award has been given, the categories presented have changed; currently Hugo Awards are given in more than a dozen categories, and include both written and dramatic works of various types.\n\nThe Hugo Awards have been termed as \"among the highest honors bestowed in science fiction and fantasy writing\". Works that have won have been published in special collections, and the official logo of the Hugo Awards is often placed on the winning books' cover as a promotional tool. The 2018 Hugos were presented at the 76th Worldcon, \"Worldcon 76\", in San Jose, California, on August 19, 2018. The 2019 awards will be presented at the 77th Worldcon, \"Dublin 2019: An Irish Worldcon\", in Dublin on August 19, 2019.\n\nFor lists of winners and nominees for each category, see the list of award categories below.\n\nThe World Science Fiction Society (WSFS) gives out the Hugo Awards each year for the best science fiction or fantasy works and achievements of the previous year. The award is named after Hugo Gernsback, who founded the pioneering science fiction magazine \"Amazing Stories\" and who is considered one of the \"fathers\" of the science fiction genre. Works are eligible for an award if they were published in the prior calendar year, or translated into English in the prior calendar year. There are no written rules as to which works qualify as science fiction or fantasy, and the decision of eligibility in that regard is left up to the voters, rather than to the organizing committee. Hugo Award nominees and winners are chosen by supporting or attending members of the annual World Science Fiction Convention, or Worldcon, and the presentation evening constitutes its central event. The selection process is defined in the WSFS constitution as instant-runoff voting with five nominees per category, except in the case of a tie. The awards are split over more than a dozen categories, and include both written and dramatic works.\n\nFor each category of Hugo, the voter may rank \"No Award\" as one of their choices. Voters are instructed that they should do so if they feel that none of the nominees are worthy of the award, or if they feel the category should be abolished entirely. A vote for \"No Award\" other than as one's first choice signifies that the voter believes the nominees ranked higher than \"No Award\" are worthy of a Hugo in that category, while those ranked lower are not.\n\nThe six works on the ballot for each category are the most-nominated by members that year, with no limit on the number of stories that can be nominated. With the exception of 1956, the first years of the awards did not include any recognition of runner-up novels, but since 1959 all of the candidates have been recorded. Initial nominations are made by members in January through March, while voting on the ballot of six nominations is performed roughly in April through July, subject to change depending on when that year's Worldcon is held. Prior to 2017, the final ballot was five works in each category. Worldcons are generally held near the start of September, and take place in a different city around the world each year.\n\nThe idea of giving out awards at Worldcons was proposed by Harold Lynch for the 1953 convention. The idea was based on the Academy Awards, with the name \"Hugo\" being given by Robert A. Madle. The award trophy was created by Jack McKnight and Ben Jason in 1953, based on the design of hood ornaments of 1950s cars. It consisted of a finned rocket ship on a wooden base. Each subsequent trophy, with the exception of the 1958 trophy, has been similar to the original design. The rocket trophy was formally redesigned in 1984, and since then only the base of the trophy has changed each year. There is no monetary or other remuneration associated with the Hugo, other than the trophy.\n\nRetrospective Hugo Awards, or Retro Hugos, were added to the ballot beginning in 1996. They are awards optionally given by a Worldcon for works that would have been eligible 50, 75, or 100 years ago.\n\nPrior to 2017, these could be awarded for the ten years that had a Worldcon where no Hugos were awarded: the conventions in 1939–41, 1946–52, and 1954. Retro Hugos under these rules were given five times: in 1996, 2001, and 2004 for 50 years prior, and 2014 and 2016 for 75 years prior. The Worldcons eligible in 1997–2000, 2002, and 2015 chose not to award Retro Hugos, and under these rules there would have been no more opportunities to award them until 2022 (for 1947). \n\nA 2017 rule change expanded the criteria to be any year after 1939 in which no Hugos were awarded, whether or not there was a Worldcon that year, or fifteen years in total: 1939–52 and 1954. Worldcon 76 and Dublin 2019 then jointly announced that Retro Hugos would be awarded in 2018 for 1943 and in 2019 for 1944.\n\nThe first Hugo Awards were presented at the 11th Worldcon in Philadelphia in 1953, which awarded Hugos in seven categories. The awards presented that year were initially conceived as a one-off event, though the organizers hoped that subsequent conventions would also present them. At the time, Worldcons were completely run by their respective committees as independent events and had no oversight between years. Thus there was no mandate for any future conventions to repeat the awards, and no set rules for how to do so.\n\nThe 1954 Worldcon chose not to, but the awards were reinstated at the 1955 Worldcon, and thereafter became traditional. The award was called the Annual Science Fiction Achievement Award, with \"Hugo Award\" being an unofficial, but better known name. The nickname was accepted as an official alternative name in 1958, and since the 1992 awards the nickname has been adopted as the official name of the award.\n\nIn 1959, though there were still no formal guidelines governing the awards, several rules were instated which thereafter became traditional. These included having a ballot for nominating works earlier in the year and separate from the voting ballot; defining eligibility to include works published in the prior calendar year, rather than the previous rule of the \"preceding year\"; and allowing voters to select \"no award\" as an option, which then won that year in two categories: Dramatic Presentation and Best New Author. The eligibility change additionally sparked a separate rule, prohibiting the nomination of works which had been nominated for the 1958 awards, as the two time periods overlapped.\n\nIn 1961, after the formation of the WSFS to oversee each Worldcon committee, formal rules were set down in the WSFS constitution mandating the presenting of the awards as one of the responsibilities of each Worldcon organizing committee. The rules restricted voting to members of the convention at which the awards would be given, while still allowing anyone to nominate works; nominations were restricted to members of the convention or the previous year's convention in 1963. The guidelines also specified the categories that would be awarded, which could only be changed by the World Science Fiction Society board. These categories were for Best Novel, Short Fiction (short stories, broadly defined), Dramatic Presentation, Professional Magazine, Professional Artist, and Best Fanzine (fan magazine). 1963 was also the second year in which \"no award\" won a category, again for Dramatic Presentation.\n\nIn 1964 the guidelines were changed to allow individual conventions to create additional categories, which was codified as up to two categories for that year. These additional awards were officially designated as Hugo Awards, but were not required to be repeated by future conventions. This was later adjusted to only allow one additional category; while these extra Hugo Awards have been given out in several categories, only a few were ever awarded for more than one year.\n\nIn 1967 categories for Novelette, Fan Writer, and Fan Artist were added, and a category for Best Novella was added the following year; these new categories had the effect of providing a definition for what word count qualified a work for what category, which was previously left up to voters. Novelettes had also been awarded prior to the codification of the rules. The fan awards were initially conceived as separate from the Hugo Awards, with the award for Best Fanzine losing its status, but were instead absorbed into the regular Hugo Awards by the convention committee.\n\nWhile traditionally five works had been selected for nomination in each category out of the proposed nominees, in 1971 this was set down as a formal rule, barring ties. In 1973, the WSFS removed the category for Best Professional Magazine, and a Best Professional Editor award was instated as its replacement, in order to recognize \"the increasing importance of original anthologies\".\n\nAfter that year the guidelines were changed again to remove the mandated awards and instead allow up to ten categories which would be chosen by each convention, though they were expected to be similar to those presented in the year before. Despite this change no new awards were added or previous awards removed before the guidelines were changed back to listing specific categories in 1977. 1971 and 1977 both saw \"no award\" win the Dramatic Presentation category for the third and fourth time; \"no award\" did not win any categories afterwards until 2015.\n\nIn 1980 the category for Best Non-Fiction Book (later renamed Best Related Work) was added, followed by a category for Best Semiprozine (semi-professional magazine) in 1984. In 1983, members of the Church of Scientology were encouraged by people such as Charles Platt to nominate as a bloc \"Battlefield Earth\", written by the organization's founder L. Ron Hubbard, for the Best Novel award; it did not make the final ballot. Another campaign followed in 1987 to nominate Hubbard's \"Black Genesis\"; it made the final ballot but finished behind \"no award\". 1989 saw a work—\"The Guardsman\" by Todd Hamilton and P. J. Beese—withdrawn by its authors from the final ballot after a fan bought numerous memberships under false names, all sent in on the same day, in order to get the work onto the ballot.\n\nIn 1990 the Best Original Art Work award was given as an extra Hugo Award, and was listed again in 1991, though not actually awarded, and established afterward as an official Hugo Award. It was then removed from this status in 1996, and has not been awarded since. The Retro Hugos were created in the mid-1990s, and were first awarded in 1996.\n\nIn 2003, the Dramatic Presentation award was split into two categories, Long Form and Short Form. This was repeated with the Best Professional Editor category in 2007. 2009 saw the addition of the Best Graphic Story category, while the most recent change to the Hugo Awards was in 2012, when an award for Best Fancast was added.\n\nIn 2015, two groups of science fiction writers, the \"Sad Puppies\" led by Brad R. Torgersen and Larry Correia, and the \"Rabid Puppies\" led by Vox Day, each put forward a similar slate of suggested nominations which came to dominate the ballot. The Sad Puppies campaign had run for two years prior on a smaller scale, with limited success. The leaders of the campaigns characterized them as a reaction to \"niche, academic, overtly [leftist]\" nominees and the Hugo becoming \"an affirmative action award\" that preferred female and non-white authors and characters. In response, five nominees declined their nomination before and, for the first time, two after the ballot was published. Multiple-Hugo-winner Connie Willis declined to present the awards. The slates were characterized by \"The Guardian\" as a \"right wing\", \"orchestrated backlash\" and by \"The A.V. Club\" as a \"group of white guys\", and were linked with the Gamergate controversy. Multiple Hugo winner Samuel R. Delany characterized the campaigns as a response to \"socio-economic\" changes such as minority authors gaining prominence and thus \"economic heft\". In all but the Best Dramatic Presentation, Long Form category, \"no award\" placed above all nominees that were on either slate, and it won all five categories that only contained slate nominees. The two campaigns were repeated in 2016 with some changes to the campaigns, and the \"Rabid Puppy\" slate again dominated the ballot in several categories, with all five nominees in Best Related Work, Best Graphic Story, Best Professional Artist, and Best Fancast.\n\nIn response to the campaigns, a set of new rules, called \"E Pluribus Hugo\", were passed in 2015 and ratified in 2016 to modify the nominations process. Intended to ensure that organized minority groups cannot dominate every finalist position in a category, the new rules define a voting system in which nominees are eliminated one by one, with each vote for an eliminated work then spread out over the uneliminated works they nominated, until only the final shortlist remains. These rules were ratified in 2016 to be used for the first time in 2017. A rule mandating that the final nominees must appear on at least five percent of ballots was also eliminated, to ensure that all categories could reach a full set of nominees even when the initial pool of works was very large. Each nominator is limited to five works in each category, but the final ballot was changed to six in each; additionally, no more than two works by a given author or group, or in the same dramatic series, can be in one category on the final ballot.\n\nIn 2018 the newest permanent category, Best Series, was begun; it was run the year prior as a special Hugo Award prior to being ratified at the business meeting.\n\nThe only discontinued awards which were instated in the WSFS constitution as permanent categories were the Best Professional Magazine and Best Original Art Work Hugo Awards. Worldcon committees may also give out special awards during the Hugo ceremony, which are not voted on. Unlike the additional Hugo categories which Worldcons may present, these awards are not officially Hugo Awards and do not use the same trophy, though they once did. An additional award, the John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer, is presented at the Hugo Award ceremony and voted on by the same process, but is not formally a Hugo Award. Another such award, for Best Young Adult Book, was first awarded in 2018.\n\nThe Hugo Award is highly regarded by observers. The \"Los Angeles Times\" has termed it \"among the highest honors bestowed in science fiction and fantasy writing\", a claim echoed by \"Wired\", who said that it was \"the premier award in the science fiction genre\". Justine Larbalestier, in \"The Battle of the Sexes in Science Fiction\" (2002), referred to the awards as \"the best known and most prestigious of the science fiction awards\", and Jo Walton, writing for \"Tor.com\", said it was \"undoubtedly science fiction's premier award\". \"The Guardian\" similarly acknowledged it as \"a fine showcase for speculative fiction\" as well as \"one of the most venerable, democratic and international\" science fiction awards \"in existence\". James Gunn, in \"The New Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" (1988), echoed \"The Guardian\"s statement of the award's democratic nature, saying that \"because of its broad electorate\" the Hugos were the awards most representative of \"reader popularity\". Camille Bacon-Smith, in \"Science Fiction Culture\" (2000), said that at the time fewer than 1000 people voted on the final ballot; she held, however, that this is a representative sample of the readership at large, given the number of winning novels that remain in print for decades or become notable outside of the science fiction genre, such as \"The Demolished Man\" or \"The Left Hand of Darkness\". The 2014 awards saw over 1900 nomination submissions and over 3500 voters on the final ballot, while the 1964 awards received 274 votes. The 2015 awards saw 2122 nominating ballots and 5950 votes. The 2016 awards saw 4032 nominating ballots and 3130 votes.\n\nBrian Aldiss, in his book \"Trillion Year Spree: The History of Science Fiction\", claimed that the Hugo Award was a barometer of reader popularity, rather than artistic merit; he contrasted it with the panel-selected Nebula Award, which provided \"more literary judgment\", though he did note that the winners of the two awards often overlapped. Along with the Hugo Award, the Nebula Award is also considered one of the premier awards in science fiction, with Laura Miller of Salon.com terming it \"science fiction's most prestigious award\".\n\nThe official logo of the Hugo Awards is often placed on the winning books' cover as a promotional tool. Gahan Wilson, in \"First World Fantasy Awards\" (1977), claimed that noting that a book had won the Hugo Award on the cover \"demonstrably\" increased sales for that novel, though Orson Scott Card said in his 1990 book \"How to Write Science Fiction & Fantasy\" that the award had a larger effect on foreign sales than in the United States. Spider Robinson, in 1992, claimed that publishers were very interested in authors that won a Hugo Award, more so than for other awards such as the Nebula Award. Literary agent Richard Curtis said in his 1996 \"Mastering the Business of Writing\" that having the term Hugo Award on the cover, even as a nominee, was a \"powerful inducement\" to science fiction fans to buy a novel, while Jo Walton claimed in 2011 that the Hugo is the only science fiction award \"that actually affects sales of a book\".\n\nThere have been several anthologies of Hugo-winning short fiction. The series \"The Hugo Winners\", edited by Isaac Asimov, was started in 1962 as a collection of short story winners up to the previous year, and concluded with the 1982 Hugos in Volume 5. \"The New Hugo Winners\", edited originally by Asimov, later by Connie Willis and finally by Gregory Benford, has four volumes collecting stories from the 1983 to the 1994 Hugos. The most recent anthology is \"The Hugo Award Showcase\" (2010), edited by Mary Robinette Kowal. It contains most of the short stories, novelettes, and novellas that were nominated for the 2009 award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56137403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56137403", "title": "Hypogeum of Torre del Ram", "text": "Hypogeum of Torre del Ram\n\nThe Hypogeum of Torre del Ram is an archaeological site of de Torre del Ram, in Cala en Blanes (Ciutadella de Menorca), is a Bronze Age funerary hypogeum, which was used as a collective tomb by a family or a small community. Even though it was emptied in later centuries to be reused as a cattle shelter, which caused the loss of all the information about the interred population, grave goods and chronology, its resemblance with other prehistoric tombs of Menorca dates it to between 1700 and 1400 BC.\n\nA stepped corridor leads to the tomb's rectangular chamber, which has a stone bench that surrounds its internal perimeter. Part of the stone gallery, which used to cover the corridor and the entrance, is still preserved, which was built with the cyclopean technique. \n\nThe corridor is 2.60 m long, while the dimensions of the chamber are: 8.80 m long, 2.50 m wide and 1.95 m high. \nThe walls of the internal chamber present several engravings representing three sailing ships and other undetermined figures. Some authors claim the importance of these elements, since they could date back to the Bronze Age. However, the date of these engraving has not been determined and could have been made in any other subsequent period.\n\n"}
{"id": "459936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459936", "title": "Index of color-related articles", "text": "Index of color-related articles\n\nThis is a list of color topic-related articles.\n\nFor a list of articles about specific named colors, see list of colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "22919177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22919177", "title": "Linkage institution", "text": "Linkage institution\n\nA linkage institution is a structure within a society that connects the people to the government or centralized authority. These institutions include: elections, political parties, interest groups, and the media.\n\nGovernment is formed as a legitimate alternative to violence. These governments create policy making institutions to develop rules by which conflicts within society are to abide by. Democratic governments often elect a legislative body. Monarchies develop a single arbitrator. Aristocracies develop a privileged body of individuals. All of which centralized authority, develop an institutionalized structure, and provides a means by which policy is made. Dynamic social change occasionally require rules within a society to change. Linkage institutions provide the means to connect those individuals within a society to the centralized authority.\n\nPolitical exclusions and oligarchical tendencies within societies create \"linkage failures\". These events create contentions within society and act as motivators towards social protests and rebellion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40431459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40431459", "title": "Lisa Jean Moore", "text": "Lisa Jean Moore\n\nLisa Jean Moore (born January 2, 1967) is Professor of Sociology and Gender Studies at the State University of New York, Purchase College. She was born in New York State, received a BA from Tufts University, a Masters of Public Health from the University of California, Berkeley and a PhD from the University of California, San Francisco. After receiving her doctoral degree in 1995, Moore was a fellow in the National Institutes of Mental Health, Traineeship in AIDS Prevention Sciences at the Center for AIDS Prevention Studies, the largest research center in the world dedicated to social, behavioral and policy science approaches to HIV. She lives in Crown Heights, Brooklyn with her three daughters.\n\nMoore is a qualitative, medical sociologist with expertise in science and technology studies, gender and sexuality studies, critical body studies and animal studies. She has published seven books and several articles in wide-ranging journals such as \"Social Text\", \"Hypatia\", \"Ethnography\", and \"Science, Technology and Human Values\".\n\n\"Catch and Release: The Enduring yet Vulnerable Horseshoe Crab\" (NYU Press) explores how humans literally harvest the life out of the horseshoe crabs. We use them as markers for understanding geologic time, collect them for agricultural fertilizer, and eat them as delicacies, capture them as bait, then rescue them for conservation, and categorize them as endangered.\n\n\"Buzz: Urban Beekeeping and the Power of the Bee\" (NYU Press) is based on a collaborative multi-sited ethnography of urban beekeepers in the NYC area. This work with sociologist Mary Kosut investigates the socio-cultural relationship between humans and bees, focusing on how bees become meaningful to human life, and how humans have created conditions of their necessity to bees’ survival. This book won the 2014 Distinguished Scholarship Award from the American Sociological Association's Animals and Society Section.\n\nIn 2007, she published \"Sperm Counts: Overcome by Man’s Most Precious Fluid\" (NYU Press) a qualitative research project which analyzes historical documentation of biomedical and contemporary representations from reproductive scientists, semen banking promotional materials on the Internet, children’s \"facts of life\" books, pornography, forensics transcripts, and sex workers’ narratives, and participant observation.\n\nHer collaborative book with Monica J. Casper entitled \"Missing Bodies: The Politics of Visibility\" (NYU Press) draws on varied approaches to examine six provocative sites where some human bodies are highly visible while others are not represented at all, with important consequences for social action and policy. The book calls for a new, systemic, and politically engaged “ocular ethics,” one grounded not merely in representations but also in analysis of social structures.\n\nWith Judith Lorber, Moore has written two books. \"Gendered Bodies: Feminist Perspectives\" (Oxford University Press) offers a feminist interpretation of prenatal to after-death gendered bodies, men’s as well as women’s, of different abilities, racial ethnic identities, ages, sexualities, and social classes. \"Gender and the Social Construction of Illness\" (Altamira Press) considers the interface between the social institutions of gender and Western medicine and offers a distinct feminist viewpoint to analyze issues of power and politics concerning physical illness.\n\nThe edited collection \"The Body Reader: Essential Social and Cultural Readings\", a collaborative effort with Mary Kosut, charts the field of the “sociology of the body” by establishing a collection of well-known (tried and true) writing combined with original essays solicited to address particular theoretical and conceptual needs.\n\nIn 2014, the textbook \"The Body: Social and Cultural Dissections\", written with Monica J. Casper, offers a comprehensive and accessible overview of sociological and cultural perspectives on the human body. Organized along the lines of a standard anatomical textbook delineated by body parts and processes, this volume subverts the expected content in favor of providing tools for social and cultural analysis.\n\nMoore is the co-founder and co-editor, with Monica Casper, of the book series for NYU Press titled Biopolitics: Medicine, Technoscience, and Health in the 21st Century. Authors in the series include , Janet Shim, Carrie Friese, Joan Wolf, and Cassandra Crawford.\n\nFrom 1993 – 1998, Moore was the board president for The Sperm Bank of California in Berkeley California.\n\nShe was also on the board of the Center for Lesbian and Gay Studies at The Graduate Center, CUNY from 2000-2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "7077186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7077186", "title": "Local Government Commission", "text": "Local Government Commission\n\nLocal Government Commission may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1562784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1562784", "title": "Logos: A Journal of Modern Society and Culture", "text": "Logos: A Journal of Modern Society and Culture\n\nLogos: A Journal of Modern Society and Culture is an American academic journal established in 2002 and edited by Michael J. Thompson. It is published quarterly and features articles that seek to foster critical dialogues on issues ranging from arts, politics, foreign affairs, culture, social sciences, to the humanities, as well as original fiction and poetry.\n"}
{"id": "648353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648353", "title": "Luigi Canina", "text": "Luigi Canina\n\nLuigi Canina (Casale Monferrato, 1795 – Florence, 1856) was an Italian archaeologist and architect.\n\nLuigi Canina, Italian architect and archeologist, was born in Casale Monferrato in 1795 and died in Florence in 1856. He was a pupil of Ferdinando Bonsignore in Turin, and settled in Rome in 1818. Among his works are: some construction at the Villa Borghese (monumental neoclassical propylaea from Piazzale Flaminio); Casino Vagnuzzi outside of Porta del Popolo in Egyptian style; not realized projects for reconstruction of the sanctuary of Oropa (1856). He became professor of architecture at Turin, and his most important works were the excavation of Tusculum in 1829 and of the Appian Way in 1848, the results of which he embodied in a number of works published in a costly form by his patroness, the queen of Sardinia. In 1843, he was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Honorary member.\n\nCanina is also noted for his studies of history and archeology: \"Ancient architecture described and represented in documents\" (1830–44). A column opposite the basilica of Saint Sebastian on the Appian Way close to Rome records Canina's work in rescuing many Roman ruins and turning the road into the archeological park that it is today.\n\nIn England he restored interiors at Alnwick Castle, Northumberland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1464761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464761", "title": "Maestà", "text": "Maestà\n\nMaestà , the Italian word for \"majesty\", designates an iconic formula of the enthroned Madonna with the child Jesus, whether or not accompanied with angels and saints. The \"Maestà\" is an extension of the \"Seat of Wisdom\" theme of the seated \"Mary Theotokos\", \"Mary Mother of God\", which is a counterpart to the earlier icon of Christ in Majesty, the enthroned Christ that is familiar in Byzantine Mosaics. Maria Regina is an art historians' synonym for the iconic image of Mary enthroned, with or without the Child.\n\nIn the West, the image seems to have developed, based perhaps on Byzantine precedents such as the coin of Constantine's Empress Fausta, crowned and with their sons on her lap and on literary examples, such as Flavius Cresconius Corippus's celebration of Justin II's coronation in 565. Paintings depicting the \"Maestà\" came into the mainstream artistic repertory, especially in Rome, in the late twelfth and early thirteenth centuries, with an increased emphasis on the veneration of Mary. The \"Maestà\" was often executed in fresco technique directly on plastered walls or as paintings on gessoed wooden altar panels.\n\nA more domestic representation, suitable to private devotion, is the iconographic theme of Madonna and Child.\n\nThe most famous example of the \"Maestà\" is the \"Maestà with Twenty Angels and Nineteen Saints\", an altarpiece comprising many individual paintings commissioned by the city of Siena in 1308 from the artist Duccio di Buoninsegna. The painting was installed in the city's cathedral on June 9, 1311. Although it took a generation for its effect truly to be felt, Duccio's \"Maestà\" set Italian painting on a course leading away from the hieratic representations of Byzantine art towards more direct presentations of reality.\n\nCreating this altarpiece assembled from many wood panels bonded together before painting was an arduous undertaking. The work was not only large, the central panel was 7 by 13 feet, but it had to be painted on both sides since it could be seen from all directions when installed on the main altar at the centre of the sanctuary.\n\nOn the back of the \"Maesta\" were episodes from the life of Christ, focusing on his Passion. Sacred narrative unfolds in elegant episodes enacted by graceful figures who seem to dance their way through these stories while still conveying emotional content.\n\nBecause the \"Maesta\" was dismantled in 1771, its power and beauty can only be imagined from scattered parts, some still in Siena, Italy, but others elsewhere.\n\nOther noted examples of the \"Maestà\" are Simone Martini's \"Maestà\" in the Palazzo Pubblico, Siena, or Cimabue's fresco in the Basilica of San Francesco d'Assisi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36774535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36774535", "title": "Mitja Brodar", "text": "Mitja Brodar\n\nMitja Brodar (1921 – 16 February 2012) was a Slovenian archaeologist. He was a son of Srečko Brodar, a pioneer of the study of the Paleolithic period in Slovenia.\n\nHe was born in 1921 in Celje where his father was at the time teaching science at the Grammar school in Celje.\n\nDuring Italian occupation of Ljubljana in WW2 he was sent to the Italian concentration camp Rab.\n\nBrodar studied at the University of Ljubljana civil engineering, geology, and paleontology. Between 1954 and 1956 and in 1960 he was excavating Mokrica Cave (). He received PhD in 1959 with a thesis on those excavations. Betal Rock Shelter () is another site he was excavating.\n\nHe helped establish and was during the 1970s president of the Slovene archaeological association. Together with his father he wrote a book on Potok Cave () excavations.\n\nAccording to him, the Divje Babe flute is a product of Cro-Magnon, modern human, and not Neanderthal.\n"}
{"id": "3011700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3011700", "title": "Numismatic Circular", "text": "Numismatic Circular\n\nThe Numismatic Circular is an international periodical published by Spink since 1892 based in London. Now published six times a year, the \"Circular\" offers coins, books and banknotes for sale at fixed prices and features articles of numismatic interest. It is believed to be the oldest such publication in existence. \n"}
{"id": "2482420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2482420", "title": "Pre-Columbian art", "text": "Pre-Columbian art\n\nPre-Columbian art refers to the visual arts of indigenous peoples of the Caribbean, North, Central, and South Americas until the late 15th and early 16th centuries, and the time period marked by Christopher Columbus' arrival in the Americas.\n\nPre-Columbian art thrived throughout the Americas from at least 13,000 BCE to the European conquests, and sometimes continued for a time afterwards. Many Pre-Columbian cultures did not have writing systems, so visual art expressed cosmologies, world views, religion, and philosophy of these cultures, as well as serving as mnemonic devices.\n\nDuring the period before and after European exploration and conquest of the Americas, indigenous native cultures produced a wide variety of visual arts, including painting on textiles, hides, rock and cave surfaces, bodies especially faces, ceramics, architectural features including interior murals, wood panels, and other available surfaces. For many of these cultures, the visual arts went beyond physical appearance and served as active extensions of their owners and indices of the divine. Artisans of the Ancient Americas drew upon a wide range of materials (obsidian, gold, spondylus shells), creating objects that included the meanings held to be inherent to the materials. These cultures often derived value from the physical qualities, rather than the imagery, of artworks, prizing aural and tactile features, the quality of workmanship, and the rarity of materials. Various works of art have been discovered large distances from their location of production, indicating that many Pre-Columbian civilizations collected items from other cultures or previous cultures. Moreover,\nmany societies used raw materials not available in the geographic location in which they were situated, suggesting difficulty of acquisition as a source of value. Unfortunately, many of the perishable surfaces, such as woven textiles, typically have not been preserved, but Precolumbian painting on ceramics, walls, and rocks have survived more frequently.\n\nThe Mesoamerican cultures are generally divided into three periods (see Mesoamerican chronology):\n\n\nThe Pre-classic period was dominated by the highly developed Olmec civilization, which flourished around 1200–400 BCE. The Olmecs produced jade figurines, and created heavy-featured, colossal heads, up to 2 meters (8 ft) high, that still stand mysteriously in the landscape. The Mesoamerican tradition of building large ceremonial centres appears to have begun under the Olmecs.\n\nDuring the Classic period the dominant Civilization was the Maya. Maya royalty commissioned artwork that commemorated their achievements and secured their place in time. Scenes depicting various rituals and historical events are embedded with hieroglyphic text to enable the viewer to identify the important figures, times and places instead of relying upon physical features that could be forgotten over time. The interpretation of the actions represented in the artwork goes hand in hand with understanding the decorative text that is woven into the picture. Unlocking this hieroglyphic text is vital as it removes anonymity and mystery from the scenes and reveals detailed records of those who held power throughout the timeline of the civilization. Like the Mississippian peoples of North America such as the Choctaw and Natchez, the Maya organized themselves into large, agricultural communities. They practised their own forms of hieroglyphic writing and even advanced astronomy. Mayan art consequently focuses on rain, agriculture, and fertility, expressing these images mainly in relief and surface decoration, as well as some sculpture. Glyphs and stylized figures were used to decorate architecture such as the pyramid temple of Chichén Itzá. Murals dating from about 750 CE were discovered when the city of Bonampak was excavated in 1946.\n\nThe Post-classic period (10th–12th centuries) was dominated by the Toltecs who made colossal, block-like sculptures such as those employed as free-standing columns at Tula, Mexico. The Mixtecs developed a style of painting known as Mixtec-Puebla, as seen in their murals and codices (manuscripts), in which all available space is covered by flat figures in geometric designs. The Aztec culture in Mexico produced some dramatically expressive examples of Aztec art, such as the decorated skulls of captives and stone sculpture, of which Tlazolteotl (Woods Bliss Collection, Washington), a goddess in childbirth, is a good example.\nIn the Andean region of South America (modern-day Peru), the Chavín civilization flourished from around 1000 BCE to 300 BCE. The Chavín produced small-scale pottery, often human in shape but with animal features such as bird feet, reptilian eyes, or feline fangs. Representations of jaguar are a common theme in Chavín art. The Chavin culture is also noted for the spectacular murals and carvings found its main religious site of Chavin de Huantar; these works include the Raimondi Stela, the Lanzón, and the Tello Obelisk.\n\nContemporary with the Chavin was the Paracas culture of the southern coast of Peru, most noted today for their elaborate textiles. These amazing productions, some of which could measure ninety feet long, were primarily used for as burial wraps for Paracas mummy bundles. Paracas art was greatly influenced by the Chavín cult, and the two styles share many common motifs.\n\nOn the south coast, the Paracas were immediately succeeded by a flowering of artistic production around the Nazca river valley. The Nazca period is divided into eight ceramic phases, each one depicting increasingly abstract animal and human motifs. These period range from Phase 1, beginning around 200 CE, to Phase 8, which declined in the middle of the eighth century. The Nasca people are most famous for the Nazca lines, though they are usually regarded as making some of the most beautiful polychrome ceramics in the Andes.\n\nOn the north coast, the Moche succeeded the Chavin. The Moche flourished about 100–800 CE, and were among the best artisans of the Pre-Columbian world, producing delightful portrait vases (Moche ware), which, while realistic, are steeped in religious references, the significance of which is now lost. For the Moche, ceramics functioned as a primary way of disseminating information and cultural ideas. The Moche made ceramic vessels that depicted and re-created a plethora of objects: fruits, plants, animals, human portrais, gods, demons, as well as graphic depictions of sexual acts. The Moche are also noted for their metallurgy (such as that found in the tomb of the Lord of Sípan), as well as their architectural prowess, such as the Huaca de la Luna and the Huaca del Sol in the Moche River valley.\n\nFollowing the decline of the Moche, two large co-existing empires emerged in the Andes region. In the north, the Wari (or Huari) Empire, based in their capital city of the same name. The Wari are noted for their stone architecture and sculpture accomplishments, but their greatest proficiency was ceramic. The Wari produced magnificent large ceramics, many of which depicted images of the Staff God, an important deity in the Andes which during the Wari period had become specifically associated with the Lake Titicaca region on the modern Peru-Bolivia border. Similarly, the Wari's contemporaries of the Tiwanaku empire, also centered around a capital city of the same name, held the Staff God in similar esteem. Tiwanaku's empire began to expand out of Titicaca around 400 BCE, but its \"Classic Period\" of artistic production and political power occurred between 375 and 700 CE. Tiwanaku is currently known for its magnificent imperial city on the southern side of Lake Titicaca, now in modern-day Bolivia. Especially famous is the Gate of the Sun, which depicts a large image of the Staff God flanked by other religious symbols which may have functioned as a calendar.\n\nFollowing the decline of the Wari Empire in the late first millennium, the Chimú people, centered out of their capital city of Chimor began to build their empire on the north and central coasts of Peru. The Chimú were preceded by a simple ceramic style known as Sicán (700-900 CE) which became increasingly decorative until it became recognizable as Chimú in the early second millennium. The Chimú produced excellent portrait and decorative works in metal, notably gold but especially silver. The Chimú also are noted for their featherwork, having produced many standards and headdresses made of a variety of tropical feathers which were fashioned into bired and fish designs, both of which were held in high esteem by the Chimú. The Chimú are best known for their magnificent palatial complex of Chan Chan just south of modern-day Trujillo, Peru; now a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Chimú went into decline very quickly due to outside pressures and conquest from the expanding Inca Empire in the mid-15th century.\n\nAt the time of the Spanish conquest, the Inca Empire (Tawantinsuyu in Quechua, the \"Land of the Four Quarters\") was the largest and wealthiest empire in the world, and this was depicted in their art. Most Inca sculpture was melted down by the invading Spanish, so most of what remains today is in the form of architecture, textiles, and ceramics. The Inca valued gold among all other metals, and equated it with the sun god Inti. Some Inca buildings in the capital of Cusco were literally covered in gold, and most contained many gold and silver sculptures. Most Inca art, however, was abstract in nature. Inca ceramics were primarily large vessels covered in geometric designs. Inca tunics and textiles contained similar motifs, often checkerboard patterns reserved for the Inca elite and the Inca army. Today, due to the unpopularity of abstract art and the lack of Inca gold and silver sculpture, the Inca are best known for the architecture - specifically the complex of Machu Picchu just northwest of Cusco. Inca architecture makes use of large stone blocks, each one cut specifically to fit around the other blocks in a wall. These stones were cut with such precision that the Incas did not need to make use of mortar to hold their buildings together. Even without mortar, Inca buildings still stand today; they form many of the foundations for even modern-day buildings in Cusco and the surrounding area. The Incas produced thousand of large stone structures, among them forts, temples, and palaces, even though the Inca Empire lasted for only ninety-five years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4206403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4206403", "title": "Proto-Ionians", "text": "Proto-Ionians\n\nThe Proto-Ionians are the hypothetical earliest speakers of the Ionic dialects of Ancient Greek, chiefly in the works of Jean Faucounau. The relation of Ionic to the other Greek dialects has been subject to some debate. It is mostly grouped with Arcadocypriot as opposed to Doric, reflecting two waves of migration into Greece following the Proto-Greek period, but sometimes also as separate from Arcadocypriot on equal footing with Doric, suggesting three distinct waves of migration.\n\nMainstream Greek linguistics separates the Greek dialects into two large genetic groups, one including Doric Greek and the other including both Arcadocypriot and Ionic Greek. But alternative approaches proposing three groups are not uncommon; Thumb and Kieckers (1932) propose three groups, classifying Ionic as genetically just as separate from Arcadocypriot as from Doric. Like a few other linguists (Vladimir Georgiev, C. Rhuijgh, P. Léveque, etc.),\nThe bipartite classification is known as the \"Risch–Chadwick theory\", named after its two famous proponents, Ernst Risch and John Chadwick.\n\nThe \"Proto-Ionians\" first appear in the work of Ernst Curtius (1887), who believed that the Attic-Ionic dialect group was due to an \"Ionicization\" of Attica by immigration from Ionia in historical times. Curtius hypothesized that there had been a \"Proto-Ionian\" migration from the Balkans to western Anatolia in the same period that brought the Arcadic dialect (the successor of the Mycenean Greek stage yet undiscovered in the time of Curtius) to mainland Greece. Curtius' hypothesis was endorsed by George Hempl in 1920. Hempl preferred to call these hypothetical, early Anatolian Greeks \"Javonians\". Hempl attempted to defend a reading of Hittite cuneiform as Greek, in spite of the establishment of the Hittite language as a separate branch of Indo-European by Hrozný in 1917.\n\nThe tripartite theory was revived by amateur linguist Jean Faucounau. In his view, the first Greek settlers in their historical territory were the (Pelasgic) \"proto-Ionians\", who were separated around 3000 BC from both the proto-Dorians and the proto-Mycenaeans. Faucounau traces this three-wave model to similar views put forward by Paul Kretschmer in the 1890s and the 1900s (\"i.e.\", before the decipherment of Linear B), with a modification: the (proto-Ionic) First wave came by sea, the \"Proto-Ionians\" settling first in the Cycladic Islands, then in Euboea and Attica. The last two waves are the generally accepted arrival of the Mycenaean Greeks (the linguistic predecessors of the Arcadocypriot speakers) in around 1700 BC and the Dorian invasion around 1100 BC.\n\nFollowing Georgiev, Faucounau makes three arguments for the proto-Ionic language. The first is the explanation of certain Mycenaean forms as loan-words from the proto-Ionians already present in Greece: he asserts that digamma is unexpectedly absent from some Mycenaean words, the occasional resolution of Indo-European vocalic \"r\" to \"-or/ro-\" instead of \"-ar/ra-\"; \"to-pe-za\" for τράπεζα, and the explanation of Mycenaean \"pa-da-yeu\" as Greek παδάω/πηδάω, \"spring leap, bound\", which he interprets as both cognate with, and having the same meaning as, English \"paddle\"..\n\nThe second argument is a refinement of a long-established argument in archaeoastronomy, developed most recently by Michael Ovenden, which considers the motion of the North Pole with respect to the fixed stars, because of the precession of the equinoxes. Ovenden concluded, from the slant of the constellations in the present sky and the hypothesis that Aratus and Hipparchus (insofar as his work survives) correctly and completely represent immemorial tradition, that the constellations we now use had been devised when the Pole was in Draco, about 2800 BC. He also concluded that the inventors probably lived between 34°30' and 37°30' N., north of most ancient civilizations, and so were likely to be the Minoans.\n\nDr. Crommelin, FRAS, has disputed this latitude, arguing that the constellation makers could only see to 54° S, but that this was compatible with latitudes as low as the 31°N of Alexandria; stars which only skirt the southern horizon by a few degrees are not effectively visible. Assuming a Greek latitude would render Canopus and Fomalhaut invisible. Crommelin estimates the constellators at 2460 BC; R. A. Proctor has estimated 2170 BC. E. W. Maunder 2700 BC.\n\nFaucounau's addition to this is the argument that Crete is also too far south, that the names of the constellations are (Ionic) Greek, not Minoan, and therefore that the constellation makers must be the proto-Ionians in the Cyclades. The south coast of Crete follows 35°N latitude; Syros, which he identifies as a center of proto-Ionian civilization, is at 37°20'. On this basis, he identifies the proto-Ionians with the archaeological Early Cycladic II culture: after all, they made round \"frying pans,\" and one of them with an incised spiral, and the Phaistos Disc is round with an incised spiral.\n\nHis third argument depends on Herodotus's somewhat obscure use of the word Pelasgian for various peoples, Greek-speaking and otherwise, around the Aegean basin. Faucounau claims that the word, which he derives idiosyncratically from πελαγος, \"sea\", means the descendants of the proto-Ionians. Some of them lost their language because they settled among foreigners; others, such as the Athenians, preserved their language - Attic, apparently, arises from a mixture of proto-Ionian and other dialects. He does not explain why Homer speaks of Dodona, inland in north-western Greece, as Pelasgian (Il, 16,233); nor why no place in historic Ionia is called Pelasgian.\n\nHe adds to the above arguments with archaeological facts. For example, the Treaty of Alaksandu between Wilusa and the Hittite empire bore a Greek name at a time when there was no Mycenaean pottery at Troy. Faucounau considers that all these arguments are an indirect confirmation of his own decipherment claim of the Phaistos Disk as proto-Ionic.\n\nFaucounau's \"Proto-Ionic Disk Language\" has most of the properties of Homeric Greek, including loss of labiovelars and even of digamma (both are preserved intact in the Mycenaean of the 14th century BC). Digamma, in Faucounau's reading of the Phaistos Disk, has in some instances passed to \"y\", a sound shift not known from any other Greek dialect, but suspected in Ionic (e.g. Ion. païs v/etym. paus). For Faucounau, the Pelasgians, the Trojans, the Carians and the Philistines are all descended from the Proto-Ionians.\n\nFaucounau's work on this subject has received two scholarly notices. Paul Faure, as below, writes warmly of many parts of the Proto-Ionian theory. He declines to address the decipherment, and omits the Celts; he also dates the Middle Cycladic culture only from 2700 BC, not 2900. Yves Duhoux expresses his disbelief in the decipherment, but does not mention the wider theory, except to deny that the Disc came from Syros. Faucounau's paper on the statistical problem of how many glyphs are likely to be omitted from a short text has never been cited. Most of it addresses the long-solved case in which the glyphs are equally likely.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2037020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2037020", "title": "Referent", "text": "Referent\n\nA referent () is a person or thing to which a name – a linguistic expression or other symbol – refers. For example, in the sentence \"Mary saw me\", the referent of the word \"Mary\" is the particular person called Mary who is being spoken of, while the referent of the word \"me\" is the person uttering the sentence.\n\nTwo expressions which have the same referent are said to be co-referential. In the sentence \"John had his dog with him\", for instance, the noun \"John\" and the pronoun \"him\" are co-referential, since they both refer to the same person (John).\n\nThe word 'referent' may be considered to derive from the Latin \"referentem\", the present participle (in accusative form) of the verb \"referre\" (\"carry back\", see also etymology of \"refer(ence)\"); or simply from the addition of the suffix \"-ent\" to the verb \"refer\" on the model of other English words having that suffix. It is defined in the Merriam-Webster Dictionary as \"one that refers or is referred to; especially: the thing that a symbol (as a word or sign) stands for.\"\n\nThe earliest meaning of \"referent\" recorded in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is \"one who is referred to or consulted\", dating from 1844. A subsequent meaning is \"a word referring to another\"; the OED gives only one citation for this use, dating from 1899 (which speaks of \"referent words or referents\" that express a relation). The next meaning, which appears to stand in opposition to the previous meaning, as well as to the meaning implied by the etymology, is nonetheless the one which has gained currency: \"that to which something [particularly a word or expression] has reference\". This sense is first recorded in Ogden and Richards' \"The Meaning of Meaning\" (1923; see further below); the OED also lists numerous subsequent examples of that usage.\n\nIn logic, the word \"referent\" is sometimes used to denote one of the two objects participating in a relation, the other being called the relatum.\n\nIn fields such as semantics, semiotics, and the theory of reference, a distinction is made between a referent and a reference. Reference is a relationship in which a symbol or sign (a word, for example) signifies something; the referent is the thing signified. The referent may be an actual person or object, or may be something more abstract, such as a set of actions.\n\nReference and referents were considered at length in the 1923 book \"The Meaning of Meaning\" by the Cambridge scholars C. K. Ogden and I. A. Richards. Ogden has pointed out that reference is a psychological process, and that referents themselves may be psychological – existing in the imagination of the referrer, and not necessarily in the real world. For further ideas related to this observation, see failure to refer.\n\nConsiderations of the possible arrangement of expressions which may be \"co-referential\" – having the same referent – have been undertaken by linguists engaged in the study of syntax, particularly since Noam Chomsky's launch of Government and Binding Theory (GBT) in the 1980s. The subject of binding is largely concerned with the possible syntactic positions of co-referential noun phrases and pronouns. Attempts are made to explain phenomena such as that illustrated by the following pair of sentences:\nIn the first sentence, \"she\" and \"Mary\" may have the same referent (\"she\" may refer to Mary), but in the second they normally cannot. More details of these considerations can be found in the articles on GBT and binding linked to above.\n\nConsiderations of references and their referents are sometimes of importance in computing and programming. References play a role in the Perl programming language, for example, and the \"ref\" function is used to obtain the type of the referent of an object.\n\n"}
{"id": "19319086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19319086", "title": "Rivista di Filologia e di Istruzione Classica", "text": "Rivista di Filologia e di Istruzione Classica\n\nRivista di Filologia e di Istruzione Classica or \"Riv. Fil.\" is a peer reviewed Italian academic journal, Published by Loescher editore of Turin. It presents articles and essays on Greek and Roman languages and literatures, history, philosophy, religion, art, and society.\n\n"}
{"id": "57961042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57961042", "title": "Saint Mary Magdalene (Louvre)", "text": "Saint Mary Magdalene (Louvre)\n\nSaint Mary Magdalene (French - \"Sainte Marie-Madeleine\") Penitent Magdalene (\"Madeleine pénitente\") or The Beautiful German Woman (\"La Belle Allemande\") is a painted wooden sculpture of Mary Magdalene by Gregor Erhart (died 1540) of the Ulm School. Probably originally intended for the church dedicated to the saint in the Dominican monastery in Augsburg, it later became part of Siegfried Lämmle's collection. The Louvre used art of a legacy from Émile Louis Sévène (née Laure Eugénie Declerck) to acquire it in 1902 and it was returned to the Louvre after being taken to Germany during the Nazi Occupation on the orders of Hermann Goering.\n\n"}
{"id": "17404917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17404917", "title": "Silwan", "text": "Silwan\n\nSilwan (, ) is a predominantly Palestinian neighborhood on the outskirts of the Old City of Jerusalem. Forty Jewish families also live in the area. Silwan is located in East Jerusalem.\nSilwan began as a farming village, dating back to the 7th century according to local traditions, while the earliest mention of the village is from the year 985. From the 19th century onwards, the village was slowly being incorporated into Jerusalem until it became an urban neighborhood.\n\nAfter the 1948 war, the village fell under Jordanian rule. Jordanian rule lasted until the 1967 Six-Day War, since which it has been occupied by Israel. Silwan is administered as part of the Jerusalem Municipality.\n\nIn 1980, Israel incorporated East Jerusalem (of which Silwan is a part) into its claimed capital city Jerusalem through the Jerusalem Law, a basic law in Israel. The move is considered by the international community as illegal under international law, but the Israeli government disputes this. According to Haaretz, the Israeli government has worked closely with the right-wing settler organization Ateret Cohanim to evict Palestinians living on property whether classified formerly as heqdesh (property pledged to a temple) or not, especially in the Batan el-Hawa area of Silwan.\n\nDepending on how the neighborhood is defined, the Palestinian residents in Silwan number 20,000 to 50,000 while there are about 500 to 2,800 Jews.\n\nHistorically, Silwan was located on the eastern slope of the Kidron Valley, above the outlet of the Gihon Spring opposite the City of David. The villagers cultivated the arable land in the Kidron Valley, which in biblical tradition formed the king's gardens during the Davidic dynasty, to grow vegetables for market in Jerusalem. Nineteenth-century travelers describe the valley floor as verdant and cultivated, with the stony village perched along the top of the eastern ridge hillside. A photograph of the village taken between 1853 and 1857 by James Graham can be found on page 35 of \"Picturing Jerusalem\" by photographers James Graham and Mendel Diness, it shows the western part of the modern village as empty of habitations, a few trees are scattered across the southern ridge with the small village confined to the ridgetop east of the valley.\n\nIn the ancient period, the area where the village stands was occupied by the necropolis of the Biblical kingdom. In the valley below, according Bible, \"the waters of Shiloah go softly\" (from the Gihon Spring) () and \"the Pool of Siloam\" () to water King Solomon's Royal Garden, later used as a staging area for Jewish pilgrims who, during the festivals of Passover, Shavuot and Sukkot, used the spring-fed Pool of Siloam to wash and ritually purify themselves before ascending the Great Staircase to the Temple Mount while singing hymns based on Psalms. On Sukkot water was brought from the Pool of Siloam to the Temple and poured upon the altar (Suk iv 9) and the priests also drank of this water (Ab. R. N. xxxv).\n\nThe necropolis, or ancient cemetery, is an archaeological site of major significance. It contains fifty rock-cut tombs of distinguished calibre, assumed to be the burial places of the highest-ranking officials of the Judean kingdom. Tomb inscriptions are in Hebrew. The \"most famous\" of the ancient rock-cut tombs in Silwan is finely carved, the one known as the Tomb of Pharaoh's daughter. Another notable tomb, called the \"Tomb of the Royal Steward\" is now incorporated into a modern-period house. The ancient inscription informs us that it is the final resting place of \"\"...yahu who is over the house.\" The first part of the Hebrew name is effaced, but it refers to a Judean royal steward or chamberlain. It is now in the collection of the British Museum.\n\nAll of the tombs were long since emptied, and their contents removed. A great deal of destruction was done to the tombs over the centuries by quarrying and by their conversion for use as housing, both by monks in the Christian period, when some were used as churches, and later by Muslim villagers. \"When the Arab village was built; tombs were destroyed, incorporated\nin houses or turned into water cisterns and sewage dumps.\"\n\nLocal folklore dates Silwan to the arrival of the second Rashidun caliph, Umar ibn al-Khattab from Arabia. According to one resident's version of the story, the Greeks were so impressed that the Caliph entered on foot while his servant rode on a camel that they presented him with the key to the city. The Caliph thereafter granted the wadi to \"Khan Silowna,\" an agricultural community of cave dwellers living ancient rock-cut tombs along the face of the eastern ridge.\n\nIn medieval Muslim tradition, the spring of Silwan (Ayn Silwan) was among the four most sacred water sources in the world. The others were Zamzam in Mecca, Ayn Falus in Beisan and Ayn al-Baqar in Acre. Silwan is mentioned as \"Sulwan\" by the 10th-century Arab writer and traveller al-Muqaddasi. In 985 he noted that the village in the outskirts of Jerusalem and south of the village was \"′Ain Sulwan\" (\"Spring of Siloam\") which provided \"fairly good water\" that irrigated the large gardens that the third Rashidun caliph, 'Othman ibn 'Affan, endowed as a \"waqf\" to the impoverished residents of Jerusalem. Al-Muqaddasi further wrote \"It is said that on the Night of 'Arafat the water of the holy well Zamzam, at Makkah, comes underground to the water of the Spring (of Siloam). The people hold a festival here on that evening.\"\n\nIn 1596, Ayn Silwan appeared in Ottoman tax registers as being in the \"Nahiya\" of Quds of the \"Liwa\" of Quds, with a population of 60 households, all Muslim. They paid a total of 35,500 akçe in taxes, and all of the revenues went to a Waqf.\n\nIn 1834, during a large-scale peasants' rebellion against Ibrahim Pasha, thousands of rebels infiltrated Jerusalem through ancient underground sewage channels leading to the farm fields of the village of Silwan. A traveler to Palestine in 1883, T. Skinner, wrote that the olive groves near Silwan were a gathering place for Muslims on Fridays.\n\nIn the mid-1850s, the villagers of Silwan were paid £100 annually by the Jews in an effort to prevent the desecration of graves on the Mount of Olives. Jewish visitors to the Western Wall were also required to pay a tax to the inhabitants of Silwan, which by 1863 was 10,000 Piastres. Nineteenth-century travelers described the village as a robbers' lair. Charles Wilson wrote that \"the houses and the streets of Siloam, if such they may be called, are filthy in the extreme.” Charles Warren depicted the population as a lawless set, credited with being \"the most unscrupulous ruffians in Palestine.”\n\nAn official Ottoman village list from about 1870 showed that Silwan had a total of 92 houses and a population of 240, though the population count included only men.\n\nIn 1883, the Palestine Exploration Fund's \"Survey of Western Palestine\" described Silwan as a \"village perched on a precipice and badly built of stone. The waters is brought from Ain Umm ed Deraj. There are numerous caves among and behind the houses, which are used as stables by the inhabitants.\"\n\nModern settlement of the western ridge of the modern urban neighborhood of Silwan, called the City of David, began in 1873-1874, when the Meyuchas family moved out of the Old City to a new home on the ridge called the City of David.\nIn 1881–82, a group of Jews arrived from Yemen as a result of messianic fervor. The year had special meaning unto them, for which some thirty Yemenite Jewish families set out from Sana'a for the Holy Land. It was an arduous journey that took them over half a year to reach Jerusalem, where they arrived destitute of all things. Upon reaching Jerusalem, they sought shelter in the caves and grottos in the hills facing the City of David, while others moved to Jaffa. Initially shunned by the Jews of the Old Yishuv, who did not recognize them as Jews due to their dark complexions, unfamiliar customs, and strange pronunciation of Hebrew, they had to be given shelter by the Christians of the Swedish-American colony, who called them Gadites. Eventually, to end their reliance on Christian charity, Jewish philanthropists purchased land in the Silwan valley to establish a neighborhood for them. By 1884, the Yemenites had settled into new stone houses at the south end of the Arab village, built for them by a Jewish charity called Ezrat Niddahim. Up to 200 Yemenite Jews lived in the newly built neighborhood, called \"Kfar Hashiloach\" () or the \"Yemenite Village.\" The neighborhood included a place of worship now known as the Old Yemenite Synagogue. Construction costs were kept low by using the Shiloah spring as a water source instead of digging cisterns. An early 20th-century travel guide writes: In the \"village of Silwan, east of Kidron ... some of the fellah dwellings [are] old sepulchers hewn in the rocks. During late years a great extension of the village southward has sprung up, owing to the settlement here of a colony of poor Jews from Yemen, etc. many of whom have built homes on the steep hillside just above and east of Bir Eyyub.\"\n\nIn 1896 the population of Silwan was estimated to be about 939 persons.\n\nBy 1910, the Yemenite Jewish community in Jerusalem and in Silwan purchased on credit a parcel of ground on the Mount of Olives for burying their dead, through the good agencies of Albert Antébi and with the assistance of the philanthropist, Baron Edmond Rothschild. The next year, the community was coerced into buying its adjacent property, by insistence of the \"Mukhtar\" (headman) of the village Silwan, and which considerably added to their holdings.\n\nAt the time of the 1922 census of Palestine, \"Selwan (Kfar Hashiloah)\" had a population of 1,901 persons; 1,699 Muslims, 153 Jews and 49 Christians, where the Christians were 16 Roman Catholics and 33 Syrian Catholics. In the same year, Baron Edmond de Rothschild bought several acres of land there and transferred it to the Palestine Jewish Colonization Association. By the time of the 1931 census, Silwan had 630 occupied houses and a population of 2968; 2,553 Muslims, 124 Jews and 91 Christians (the last including the Latin, Greek and St. Stephens convents).\n\nIn the 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine, the Yemenite community was removed from Silwan by the Welfare Bureau of the Va'ad Leumi into the Jewish Quarter as security conditions for Jews worsened, and in 1938, the remaining Yemenite Jews in Silwan were evacuated by the Jewish Community Council on the advice of the police. According to documents in the custodian office and real estate and project advancement expert Edmund Levy, the homes of the Yemenite Jews were occupied by Arab families without registering ownership.\nThe British Mandatory government began annexing parts of Silwan to the Jerusalem Municipality, a process completed by the final Jordanian annexation of remaining Silwan in 1952.\nIn the twentieth century, Silwan grew northward towards Jerusalem, expanding from a small farming village into an urban neighborhood. Modern Arab Silwan encompasses Old Silwan (generally to the south), the Yemenite village (to the north), and the once-vacant land between. Today Silwan follows the ridge of the southern peak of the Mount of Olives to the east of the Kidron Valley, from the ridge west of the Ophel up to the southern wall of the Temple Mount/Haram al-Sharif.\n\nIn the 1945 statistics the population of Silwan was 3,820; 3,680 Muslims and 140 Christians, with a total of 5,421 dunams of land according to an official land and population survey. Of this, Arabs used 58 dunams were for plantations and irrigable land and 2,498 for cereals, while Jews used 51 for cereals. A total of 172 dunams were classified as built-up (urban) land.\n\nAfter the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Silwan was annexed by Jordan along with the rest of the West Bank. Jewish-owned land in Silwan came under control of the Jordanian \"guardian of enemy properties.\" It remained under Jordanian occupation until 1967, when Israel captured the Old City and surrounding region. Until then, the village had delegates in the Jerusalem City Council.\n\nAfter the 1967 Six-Day War Silwan has been under Israeli occupation, and Jewish organizations have sought to re-establish a Jewish presence there.\n\nIn 1987, the Permanent Representative of Jordan to the United Nations wrote to the Secretary-General to inform him of Israeli settlement activity; his letter noted that an Israeli company had taken over two Palestinian houses in the neighborhood of al-Bustan, also called King's Garden, after evicting their occupants, claiming the houses were its property. City of David (Wadi Hilweh), an area of Silwan close to the southern wall of the Old City, and its neighborhood of al-Bustan, has been ever since a focus of Jewish settlement.\n\nThe Ir David Foundation and the Ateret Cohanim organizations are promoting resettlement of Jews in the neighborhood in cooperation with the Committee for the Renewal of the Yemenite Village in Shiloah.\n\nThe City of David (Hebrew: \"Ir David\"), an archeological site believed to be the original site of Jerusalem, is located within Silwan.\n\nIn 2003, Ateret Cohanim built a seven-storey apartment building known as Beit Yonatan (named for Jonathan Pollard) without a permit. In 2007, the courts ordered the eviction of the residents, but the building was approved retroactively. In 2008 a plan was submitted for a building complex including a synagogue, 10 apartments, a kindergarten, a library and underground parking for 100 cars in a location 200 meters from the Old City walls.\n\nIn September 2014, the Ir David Foundation helped Jews move into 25 apartments in 7 different buildings in Silwan. In response to this move, on 2 October 2014, the European Union condemned settlement expansion in Silwan.\n\nOn 15 June 2016, Jerusalem's City Hall approved the construction of a three-storey residential house for Jews wishing to make Silwan their home.\n\nThe Silwan Ta’azef Music School opened in October 2007. Since November 2007, an art program, language courses for women, men and children, leadership training for teenage girls, cooking classes, an embroidery club and swimming classes have opened in Silwan. In 2009, a local library was established. The Silwan theater group is led by a professional actress from Bethlehem. Many of these activities take place at the Madaa Silwan Creative Center.\n\nThe Statistical Yearbook of Jerusalem by the Jerusalem Institute for Israel Studies put the number of residents to 19,050 in 2012. However, the Palestinian neighborhoods in Jerusalem are difficult to define, in contrast to the Jewish neighborhoods, because dense construction has blurred older boundaries and Silwan is now merged with Ras al-Amud, Jabel Mukaber and Abu Tor. The Palestinian residents in Silwan number 20,000 to 50,000 while there are fewer than 700 Jews.\n\nIn 1991, a movement was formed to promote Jewish settlement in Silwan, Some Silwan properties had already been declared absentee property in the 1980s, and suspicions arose that a number of claims filed by Jewish organizations had been accepted by the Custodian without any site visits or follow-up.\nProperty in Silwan has been purchased by Jews through indirect sales, some by invoking the Absentee Property Law. In other cases, the Jewish National Fund signed protected tenant agreements that enabled construction to proceed without a tender process.\n\nIn December 2011, a board member of the Jewish National Fund's US fundraising arm resigned in protest after a 20-year legal process came to a head with an order for the eviction of a Palestinian family from a JNF-owned home. The home had been acquired via the Absentee Property Law. Several days before the order was carried out, JNF announced it would be delayed.\n\nAs of 2004, more than 50 Jewish families live in the area, some in homes acquired from Arabs who claim they did not know they were selling their homes to Jews, some in Beit Yonatan.\n\nOvernight on 30 September 2014 at 1:30 am, settlers, supported by police officers and reportedly connected to the Ir David Foundation, commonly known as Elad, entered 25 houses in 7 buildings which previously belonged to several Palestinian families in the neighborhood, in what was the largest Israeli purchase of homes in Silwan since 1986. Most were vacant, but in one house where a family was evicted a confrontation broke out. Details concerning the process whereby the properties were purchased are lacking, but Palestinian middle men appear to be involved, buying the six houses, and then selling them to a private American company, Kendall Finance. Elad stated that the houses had been bought properly and legally. Advertisements were posted on Facebook offering Jewish ex-army veterans $140 a day to sit in the properties until families move in. The son of one Palestinian family who sold his property has fled Jerusalem, in fear for his life. Some of the Palestinian families claiming ownership intended to get the settlers out by taking legal steps.\n\nWhite House spokesman Josh Earnest, in a condemnation of the takeover, described the new occupants as \"individuals who are associated with an organization whose agenda, by definition, stokes tensions between Israelis and Palestinians.\" Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was \"baffled\" by US criticism, deeming it \"un-American\" to criticize the legal purchase of homes in East Jerusalem to either Jews or Arabs.\n\nRabbis for Human Rights-North America, which changed its name to T'ruah in 2012 accused Elad of creating a \"method of expelling citizens from their properties, appropriating public areas, enclosing these lands with fences and guards, and banning the entrance of the local residents...under the protection of a private security force.\" Approximately 1,500 supporters of RHR-NA/T'ruah wrote to Russell Robinson, CEO of JNF-US, to demand an end to the eviction of a Silwan family.\n\nIn 2005, the Israeli government planned to demolish 88 Arab homes in al-Bustan neighborhood built without permits but they were not found illegal in a municipal court.\n\nAccording to the State Comptroller's report, there were 130 illegal structures in Silwan in 2009, a tenfold increase since 1967. When enforcement of the building code began in al-Bustan in 1995, thirty illegal structures were found, mostly old residential buildings. By 2004, the number of illegal structures rose to 80. The municipality launched legal proceedings against 43 and demolished 10, but these were soon replaced by new buildings.\n\nThe group Ir Amim argues that the illegal construction is due to insufficient granting of permits by the Jerusalem municipality. They say that under Israeli administration, fewer than 20 permits, mainly minor, were issued for this part of Silwan, and that as a result, most building in this part of Silwan and the whole neighborhood generally lack permits. They also say that as of 2009, the vast majority of buildings in the neighborhood were built without permits, in particular in al-Bustan. In 2010, Ir Amim's petition to halt a municipal zoning plan for the City of David area was rejected. The plan does not call for demolition of illegal construction, but rather regulates where construction may continue. The group said that the plan favored the interests of Elad and the neighborhood's Jewish residents, while Elad said that the plan allotted only 15 percent of construction to Jews versus 85 percent to Arab residents. The mukhtar of Silwan objected to Ir Amim's petition against the plan. “We have said that there are good aspects of the plan and there are bad aspects of the plan, we’re still working it all out. But to come and say that the whole plan is bad, and to ask that it be done away with, then what have you accomplished? Nothing.”\n\nSilwan has expanded onto designated greenspace on the floor of the Kidron Valley. A redevelopment plan proposed by Jerusalem mayor Nir Barkat calls for the establishment of a park to be called the Garden of the King. UN Special Rapporteur Richard Falk said of the plan that \"international law does not allow Israel to bulldoze Palestinian homes to make space for the mayor’s project to build a garden, or anything else.\"\n\nThe ridge to the west of Silwan, known as the City of David, is believed to be the original Bronze Age and Iron Age site of Jerusalem. Archaeological exploration began in the 19th century. Vacant during most of the Ottoman period, Jewish and Arab settlement began in the late 19th century. Islamic-era skeletons discovered in the course of excavations have disappeared. ElAd was accused of excavating on Palestinian property and beginning its work on the City of David tunnels before receiving a permit from the Jerusalem Municipality.\n\nIn 2007, archaeologists unearthed under a parking lot a 2,000-year-old mansion that may have belonged to Queen Helene of Adiabene. The building includes storerooms, living quarters and ritual baths.\nIn April 2008, the Israeli High Court temporarily halted excavations.\n\nIn her 2009 publication entitled \"Tree Flags\", legal scholar and ethnographer, Irus Braverman, describes how Palestinians identify olive groves as an emblem or symbol of their longtime, steadfast agricultural connection (\"tsumud\") to the land.\n\nIn May 2010, a group of Israeli settlers torched \"an 11-Dunam olive orchard in al-Rababa valley, in Silwan, south of the Old City of Jerusalem\" which included the destruction of three olive trees that were over 300 years old. In a 2011 New York Times article, these attacks were called \"price tag\" attacks. Similar destruction of olive trees occurred in Jabal Jales (an area near Hebron) and in Huwara. The United Nations reported that by 2013, 11,000 olive trees owned by Palestinians in the occupied West Bank had been damaged or destroyed. Washington Post, October 2014:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7317440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7317440", "title": "Solly Madonna", "text": "Solly Madonna\n\nThe Solly Madonna by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael was painted somewhere between 1500 and 1504.\n\nAn early work, it clearly shows the influence of Raphael's teacher Perugino. Two motifs in this work would recur in later Madonnas by Raphael. The virgin Mary is reading a book, as in the Madonna and Child in the Norton Simon Museum, the Connestabile Madonna, the Madonna Colonna and the Madonna del cardellino. As in that last painting a small bird, a goldfinch, is part of the scene.\n\nThe painting is located in the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin. It is called the \"Solly Madonna\" because it was owned by the British banker and art collector Edward Solly (1776–1848).\n"}
{"id": "26783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26783", "title": "Statute", "text": "Statute\n\nA statute is a formal written enactment of a legislative authority that governs a city, state, or country. Typically, statutes command or prohibit something, or declare policy. Statutes are rules made by legislative bodies; they are distinguished from case law or precedent, which is decided by courts, and regulations issued by government agencies.\n\nIn virtually all countries, newly enacted statutes are published in a Government gazette which is then distributed so that everyone can look up the statutory law.\n\nA universal problem encountered by lawmakers throughout human history is how to organize published statutes. Such publications have a habit of starting small but growing rapidly over time, as new statutes are enacted in response to the exigencies of the moment. Eventually, persons trying to find the law are forced to sort through an enormous number of statutes enacted at various points in time to determine which portions are still in effect.\nThe solution adopted in many countries is to organize existing statutory law in topical arrangements (or \"codified\") within publications called codes, then ensure that new statutes are consistently drafted so that they add, amend, repeal or move various code sections. In turn, in theory, the code will thenceforth reflect the current cumulative state of the statutory law in that jurisdiction. In many nations statutory law is distinguished from and subordinate to constitutional law.\n\nThe term statute is also used to refer to an International treaty that establishes an institution, such as the Statute of the European Central Bank, a protocol to the international courts as well, such as the Statute of the International Court of Justice and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Statute is also another word for law. The term was adapted from England in about the 18th century.\n\nIn the Autonomous Communities of Spain, the autonomy statute is a legal document similar to a state constitution in a federated state. The autonomies statutes in Spain have the rank of \"Ley Organica\", a category of special laws reserved only for the main institutions and issues and mentioned in the Constitution (the highest ranking legal instrument in Spain). Leyes Organicas rank between the Constitution and ordinary laws. The name was chosen, among others, to avoid confusion with the term Constitution (i.e. the Spanish Constitution of 1978).\n\nIn biblical terminology, statute (Hebrew \"chok\") refers to a law given without any reason or justification. The classic example is the statute regarding the Red Heifer.(Numbers 19:2)\n\nThe opposite of a chok is a \"mishpat\", a law given for a specified reason, e.g. the Sabbath laws, which were given because \"God created the world in six days, but on the seventh day He rested\" (Genesis 2:2-3).\n\n\"That which upholds, supports or maintains the regulatory order of the universe\" meaning the \"Law\" or \"Natural Law\". This is a concept of central importance in Indian philosophy and religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "31858819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31858819", "title": "Sulcalization", "text": "Sulcalization\n\nSulcalization (from Latin \"sulcus\", \"groove\"), in phonetics, is the pronunciation of a sound, typically a sibilant consonant, such as English and , with a deep \"groove\" running along the back of the tongue that focuses the airstream on the teeth, producing a more intense sound. That is accomplished by raising the sides of the back of the tongue (\"lateral contraction\") and leaving a hollow along the mid-line. It is not clear if all sibilants are so \"grooved\": Catford (1977) observed that the degree of sulcalization differs between places of articulation as well as between languages, but no language is known to contrast a grooved and non-grooved sibilant. \n\nEnglish , which allows various tongue positions without apparent distinction, may also receive its characteristic quality from being sulcal. \n\nIn phonology and historical linguistics, \"sulcalization\" is the development of such a groove in a non-sulcal consonant. For example, close vowels trigger the effect in Japanese, in which historic *\"tu\" and *\"ti\" have become and , respectively. A similar sound changes as operated in the Senufo languages. (The palatalization of *\"tsi\" to in Japanese is a different process and does not occur in Senufo.)\n\nVowels may also be sulcalized, which has been described as giving them a \"throaty\" sound (Jones 1967:82). The vowel of Received Pronunciation, which is normally described as a rounded, is pronounced by some speakers without rounded lips for whom the characteristic quality is rather one of sulcality (Lass 1984:124).\n\nOne scholar has also suggested that the vowel in the RP pronunciation of words like \"bird\", typically transcribed , is actually a sulcal schwa, retaining the sulcality of the original rhotic consonant. Accordingly, the realization of the -element of the centering diphthongs in words such as \"near\", \"pure\" and \"scare\", is interpreted as the product of a loss of sulcality (Erickson 2003:197).\n\n"}
{"id": "12742737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12742737", "title": "The \"Fish\" Cheer/I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag", "text": "The \"Fish\" Cheer/I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\n\n\"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\" is a song by the American psychedelic rock band Country Joe and the Fish, written by Country Joe McDonald, and first released as the opening track on the extended play \"Rag Baby Talking Issue No. 1\", in October 1965 (\"see\" 1965 in music). \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\"s dark humor and satire made it one of the most recognized protest songs against the Vietnam War. Critics cite the composition as a classic of the counterculture era.\n\nThe song was usually preceded by \"The Fish Cheer\", a cheer spelling out \"F-I-S-H\". An altered version of the cheer that was performed in live performances, known as \"The Fuck Cheer\", resulted in a television ban for Country Joe and the Fish in 1968, for the vulgarity, but was applauded by concert-goers.\n\n\"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\" saw a more commercial release on the group's second album, \"I Feel Like I'm Fixin' to Die\", which was distributed in November 1967. The song was a favorite among the hippie culture, and was featured in McDonald's set list at the Woodstock Festival in 1969. Decades later, McDonald had a lawsuit filed against him for allegedly infringing on the copyright of Kid Ory's tune, \"Muskrat Ramble\". McDonald denied these allegations and the suit was later dismissed.\n\nAlthough the song achieved national notoriety when it was included on Country Joe and the Fish's second album, \"I Feel Like I'm Fixin' to Die\", it was first composed and distributed two years prior. In 1965, Country Joe McDonald founded and edited for a local counterculture magazine in Berkeley, California, which he called \"Rag Baby\" - a Bay Area adaptation of the folk magazine \"Broadside\". McDonald published four editions of the magazine, and sought to incorporate musical influences to support \"Rag Baby\"'s left-wing message. To accomandate the issue, McDonald was inspired to distribute a \"talking issue\" of the magazine, an extended play called \"Rag Baby Talking Issue No. 1\". In June 1965, an early incarnation of Country Joe and the Fish recorded an acoustic version of \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\", the later debut album track, \"Superbird\", and two other songs by local folk musician, Peter Krug at Arhoolie Records Studios, under the guidance of record producer Chris Strachwitz. According to McDonald, the rag was written in under 30 minutes with a conscious purpose of reflecting on the escalation of the Vietnam conflict, while he composed another song, \"Who Am I\", which was also relating to the US's increasing armed involvement. About 100 copies of the EP were pressed on McDonald's independent label and, were sold at Sproul Plaza in UC Berkeley, during a Teach-in, and in underground stores that stocked \"Rag Baby\".\n\nThe song's lyrics are about placing blame on American politicians, high-level military officers, and industry corporations on starting the Vietnam War. McDonald composed \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\" in the summer of 1965, just as the U.S.'s military involvement was increasing, and was intensively opposed by the young generation. It expresses discontent towards the process of conscription, through the use of dark humor, and culminating in a reflection of casualties of the war, as hinted in the satirical invitation to \"be the first one on your block, to have your son come home in a box\". In addition, the song features a signature chorus:\nThe album version concludes with the uttering of several light machine guns firing and a final explosion, evoking the dropping of another atomic bomb.\n\nAfter a brief stint performing as a duo in Berkley, McDonald and Melton recruited more members and eventually signed a recording contract with Vanguard Records in December 1966. Inspired by the live performances of Bob Dylan and The Paul Butterfield Blues Band, the group became fully intertwined in electronic rock, and recorded a new electrified version of \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\" in Sierra Sound Laboratories, in February 1967. Initially, the song was going to be featured on Country Joe and the Fish's debut album, \"Electric Music for the Mind and Body\", but record producer Sam Charters insisted that the track remain off the record. When the controversial composition, \"Superbird\", was not banned from airplay, \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\" was placed as the opening to their second album, \"I Feel Like I'm Fixin' to Die\".\n\nThe song was a popular attraction in the band's live performance, and, in the summer of 1968, the first instance of slightly altered version known as \"The Fuck Cheer\" appeared in New York City at the Shaefer Summer Music Festival, among a crowd of nearly 10,000. Drummer Gary \"Chicken\" Hirsh suggested that the opening chorus spell out \"fuck\", which was positively received by younger listeners, and led to unexpected radio exposure of the album version on both alternative radio stations and AM radio. Although Hirsh has never explained why he made the change, writer James E. Perone has speculated in his book \"Songs of the Vietnam Conflict\" that it was a \"rebellious counterculture political act demonstrating free speech rights in the mid-1960s\". However, executives from \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" were present at the concert, and barred Country Joe and the Fish from their scheduled appearance and any future performances on the show.\n\nOn August 16, 1969, the second day of the Woodstock Festival, McDonald made an unexpected solo performance of \"The Fuck Cheer\" at the conclusion of his set list, after Ritchie Havens. McDonald was augmented with a Yamaha FG 150 guitar that he found and holstered with a rope. According to McDonald, \"I went on with my guitar and it was like 'Here is this guy who's going to sing' but no one paid any attention. I played 'Janis' and 'Tennessee Stud' and then I walked off the stage. I asked my tour manager if he thought it would be OK if I went back on and did the cheer and he said yeah. So I went \"Give me an F!\", and they all yelled \"F!\" The audience receptively responded by cheering the \"F-U-C-K\" chant along with McDonald. The performance was featured on the \"Woodstock\" film, which included sing-a-long lyrical subtitles of \"The Fuck Cheer\".\n\nIn 2001, the heirs of New Orleans jazz trombonist Kid Ory launched a lawsuit against Country Joe McDonald, claiming that the music of \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag\" constituted plagiarism of \"Muskrat Ramble\", a number by Ory, recorded by Louis Armstrong and His Hot Five in 1926. In 2005, a court dismissed the suit, holding that the Ory estate had waited too long to make the claim. If the action had been successful Country Joe McDonald would have been required, under law, to pay $150,000 for each live performance of the song in the three years since the lawsuit was filed. McDonald would have also been barred from ever performing the song again without the possibility of further damages.\n\nPete Seeger covered the song in 1970. There were initially plans to release his version as a single, and indeed some copies were sent out to DJs, but according to Seeger, distributors refused to handle it, and it was never officially released. It eventually found its way onto the Internet. It was also included as a bonus track on a reissue of his 1969 album \"Young vs. Old\".\n\nMcDonald performed part of the song while playing a folksinging hippie named \"Joaquin\" in the \"Tales of the City\" TV miniseries.\n\nThe song was regularly broadcast into Hỏa Lò Prison (the \"Hanoi Hilton\"), in North Vietnam, to American prisoners of war by their captors. The prisoners later reported it actually boosted their morale as they sang along.\n\nThe Passion Killers, comprising several members of the band Chumbawamba, covered the song with modified lyrics on their 1991 single, \"Whoopee! We're All Gonna Die!\", as a protest against the first Gulf War.\n\nEugene Chadbourne released a rewritten version entitled \"Feel Like I'm Fixin' to Die (Iraq)\" on his 1991 7\" single \"Oil of Hate\".\n\nJapanese band Omoide Hatoba included a 40-second-long cover on their 1992 album \"Black Hawaii\", with the title reading \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fix-in-to-Die Rag.\" Sung by Public Bath Records' David Hopkins, it consists of the intro, first verse, chorus, and the chorus starting to repeat when Seiichi Yamamoto cuts it off by shouting \"Next!\"\n\nSwedish rock singer covered it in 2003 on his album \"Autograph\". This version features a solo performed by legendary guitarist Albert Lee.\n\nThe song has been featured in the films \"Woodstock\" (1970), \"More American Graffiti\" (1979), \"Purple Haze\" (1982), and \"Hamburger Hill\" (1987), and the HBO miniseries \"Generation Kill\" (2008). It was also featured in the TV show \"The Wonder Years\", in the season 2 episode, titled \"Walk Out\" (1989).\n\nIt was referenced on the 2008 edition of the AP United States History exam.\n\n"}
{"id": "8329549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8329549", "title": "The Compleat Housewife", "text": "The Compleat Housewife\n\nThe Compleat Housewife, or, Accomplish'd Gentlewoman's Companion is a cookery book written by Eliza Smith and first published in London in 1727. It became extremely popular, running through 18 editions in fifty years.\n\nIt was the first cookery book to be published in the Thirteen Colonies of America: it was printed in Williamsburg, Virginia, in 1742. It contained the first published recipe for \"katchup\", and appears to be the earliest source for bread and butter pudding.\n\nThe book includes recipes not only for foods but for wines, cordial-waters, medicines and salves.\n\nThe title page describes \"The Compleat Housewife\" as a\n\nThe book was the first to publish a recipe for \"Katchup\"; it included mushrooms, anchovies and horseradish. The title \"The Compleat Housewife\" may owe something to Gervase Markham's 1615 \"The English Huswife\".\n\nLittle is known of Smith beyond what she writes of herself in the preface. She spent her life working as a cook or housekeeper in wealthy households, and unlike Elizabeth Raffald who left service to run her own shop, continued in that profession despite the success of her book. It is possible that she worked at Beaulieu Abbey, Hampshire. She is critical of cookery books written by men who conceal their secrets, preventing readers from using their recipes successfully.\n\nThe preface contains the following passage:\n\nThe passage was lightly adapted from an earlier book with a similar title, John Nott's \"The Cooks and Confectioners Dictionary: or, the Accomplish’d Housewife’s Companion\" (1723), which declared he had added an introduction because fashion had made it as odd for a book to be printed without one as for a man to be seen \"in church without a neck cloth or a lady without a hoop-petticoat.\"\n\nThe following refer to the 9th edition, 1739.\n\n\nSmith offers no general advice, either at the start of the book or at the start of chapters; each chapter consists entirely of recipes. There are no lists of ingredients, these simply being mentioned as needed in the recipes. Most recipes do not mention either oven temperature or cooking time, though for example \"To candy Orange Flowers\" instructs \"set your glasses in a stove with a moderate heat\", and \"To Stew a Rump of Beef\" states \"this requires six or seven hours stewing.\"\n\nThe recipes are predominantly English, but dishes include French and other foreign names, and imported ingredients such as spices.\nRecipes are described tersely, and do not generally spell out basic techniques such as how to make pastry; the recipe for \"A Battalia Pye\" does not mention pastry at all, though it is called for with the instruction to \"close the pye\":\n\nHowever, a few frequently-used components of dishes are described, such as \"A Lear for Savoury Pyes\" and \"A Ragoo for made Dishes\". The \"Lear\" is a thickened sauce made with claret, gravy, \"oyster liquor\", anchovies, herbs, onion and butter. The \"Ragoo\" contains similar ingredients, with the addition of sliced meats and mushrooms; the recipe ends with \"use it when called for\", such as in the Battalia Pye.\nRecipes are provided for home-made medicines and remedies such as \"To promote Breeding\" for women wanting to become pregnant. The recipe calls for a spoonful of \"stinking orrice\" syrup to be taken night and morning, and for \"good ale\" to be boiled with \"the piths of 3 ox-backs, half a handful of clary, a handful of nep (or cat-bos)\", dates, raisins, and nutmegs. The woman drinking this mixture \"at your going to-bed\" is enjoined \"as long as it lasts, accompany not with your husband.\"\n\nThe book was first published in 1727 and ran through 18 editions by 1773. The first four editions were published under the byline \"E— S—\", but Smith did reveal she was a woman \"constantly employed in fashionable and noble Families ... for the Space of thirty Years and upwards\". The fifth edition of 1732 gave the author's name as \"E. Smith\".\n\nThe bibliographer William Carew Hazlitt recorded that the 7th edition included \"near fifty Receipts being communicated just before the author's death\".\n\n\"The Compleat Housewife\" was the first cookery book to be published in America, when William Parks, an ambitious and enterprising printer (originally from Shropshire) printed it in Williamsburg, Virginia in 1742. His version of \"The Compleat Housewife\", a \"cookery book of ambitious scope\", was based on the fifth London edition of 1732, altered to suit American taste, and without recipes \"the ingredients or materials for which are not to be had in this country.\" Copies of the 1742 edition have become very rare, but \"happily, one copy has returned to the city of its origin\", and is in the Library of Colonial Williamsburg, Incorporated.\n\nIn 1893, the bibliographer William Carew Hazlitt allocated 54 pages of his history of cookery books to the \"Compleat Housewife\", commenting that \"the highly curious contents of E. Smith ... may be securely taken to exhibit the state of knowledge in England upon this subject in the last quarter of the seventeenth and the first quarter of the eighteenth [century]\".\n\nChristine Mitchell, reviewing the Chawton House reprint in 2010 for the Jane Austen Society of North America, wrote that Eliza Smith's book \"met the growing need for a text to assist women with their task of maintaining a household.\" She quotes Elizabeth Wallace's introduction as saying that it gives modern readers reason to appreciate having a refrigerator and a global food system that brings us out-of-season produce. Yet, she observes, the English housewife had many varieties of vegetables, 30 kinds of seafood and 35 kinds of poultry (including hares and rabbits). She notes that the book also describes home remedies, the housewife having to function as \" chef, doctor, pharmacist, exterminator, chemist, laundress, and all-around handy-woman.\" Reflecting that the recipes would \"probably never\" be used today, and the medicines are useless, the book remains invaluable for researchers, gives readers a glimpse into the world of Jane Austen and her contemporaries, and richly documents eighteenth-century English life.\n\nPatrick Spedding, in \"Script & Print\", notes that the book was very popular in the eighteenth century, with 20 London editions in fifty years. However, he roundly criticises the 1983 Arlon House facsimile reprint of the 16th edition for deliberately omitting recipes including \"To promote Breeding\", suggesting this was because the publisher was concerned they might be harmful.\n\nThe historian Sandra Sherman comments that \"The Compleat Housewife\" \"is the first female-authored blockbuster.\"\n\nThe bibliographer Genevieve Yost comments that \"E. Smith's popularity in eighteenth century England was challenged perhaps most seriously by Hannah Glasse, who admittedly is better remembered today\", adding at once that Glasse is recalled mainly for the controversy over whether she actually existed, and for the recipe that people supposed started with \"First catch your hare.\" Yost suggests that the book's popularity in the colonies was probably increased by the publication of an American edition. She concludes that\n\n1n the Spring 2006 issue of \"Prairie Schooner\", Sarah Kennedy published a poem called \"The Compleat Housewife, 1727\", with the gloss \"the first popular cookbook published in Great Britain\". The poem begins:\n"}
{"id": "3946684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3946684", "title": "The Mays", "text": "The Mays\n\nThe Mays Literary Anthology (or just The Mays) is an anthology of new writing by students from the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge. In 1992, when Peter Ho Davies, Adrian Woolfson, and Ron Dimant came up with the original concept for the \"Mays\", the publication was split into two separate anthologies; one devoted to prose and the other to poetry. In 2003 the \"Mays\" became a single publication.\n\nEach year, the \"Mays\" receives hundreds of submissions from students at Oxford and Cambridge. In 2006 the \"Mays\" received a record 1,100 entries. The Editorial Committee (composed of students from both universities) review the submissions during Lent Term.\n\n\"The Mays\" is broader in scope than most university literary projects: it is sold in bookstores and by delivery nationwide; it is distributed to every major literary agent; and each year a guest editor — usually a prominent author, poet, or artist — writes an introduction to the anthology. Previous guest editors include: Margaret Drabble and Jon Stallworthy (1992), Michael Dibdin and Seamus Heaney (1993), Stephen Fry (1994), Ted Hughes (1995), Penelope Fitzgerald (1996), Christopher Reid and Jill Paton Walsh (1997), Sebastian Faulks and J.H. Prynne (1998), Penelope Lively and John Kinsella (1999), Paul Muldoon and Lawrence Norfolk (2000), Zadie Smith and Michael Donaghy (2001), Andrew Motion and Nick Cave (2002), Ali Smith (2003), Philip Pullman (2004), Robert Macfarlane (2005), Don Paterson and Jeanette Winterson (2006), Colm Toibin (2007), Ian Patterson (2008), Patti Smith (2009), Amit Chaudhuri, Tom Raworth (2010), , Jarvis Cocker (2011), John Darnielle, Tao Lin, Toby Litt (2012), Michael Frayn, David Harsent, Tom Phillips (2013), John Fuller, Paul Farley, Ben Okri, Prajwal Parajuly, Emma Chichester Clark and Alexander Gilkes (2014), Roger Mcgough and Rupi Kaur (2016).\n\n\"The Mays\" is often noted for launching the career of novelist Zadie Smith. Her work appears in two of the short story editions (1996 and 1997). Literary agencies first took notice of Smith after seeing her story \"Mrs. Begum’s Son and the Private Tutor\" in the 1997 collection. Smith guest edited the \"Mays\" in 2001. Her quip \"maybe in a few years this lot will have me out of a job\" has become a catch phrase for the publication.\n\n\"The Mays\" is associated with Varsity Publications Ltd, which publishes \"Varsity\". The cost of publication is funded in part by donations from various Oxford and Cambridge colleges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6925320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6925320", "title": "The Musical Quarterly", "text": "The Musical Quarterly\n\nThe Musical Quarterly is the oldest academic journal on music in America. Originally established in 1915 by Oscar Sonneck, the journal was edited by Sonneck until his death in 1928. Sonneck was succeeded by a number of editors, including Carl Engel (1930-1944), Gustave Reese (1944-45), Paul Henry Lang, who edited the journal for over 25 years, from 1945 to 1973, Joan Peyser (1977-84), Eric Salzman who served as editor from 1984 to 1991 and several others.\n\nSince 1993 \"The Musical Quarterly\" has been edited by Leon Botstein, president of Bard College and principal conductor of the American Symphony Orchestra. It is published by Oxford University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "254067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254067", "title": "Topfreedom", "text": "Topfreedom\n\nTopfreedom is a cultural and political movement seeking changes in laws to allow women to be topless in public places where men are permitted to be barechested, as a form of gender equality. Specifically, the movement seeks the repeal or overturning of laws which restrict a woman's right not to have her chest covered at all times in public.\n\nIn addition, topfreedom advocates seek allowing nursing mothers to openly breastfeed in public, and women to bathe topless.\n\nMany societies consider women who expose their nipples and areolae as immodest and contrary to social norms. In many jurisdictions a topless woman may be socially or officially harassed or cited for public lewdness, indecent exposure, public indecency or disorderly conduct. Topfreedom advocates seek to change community attitudes to breasts as sex objects or indecent.\n\nSeveral countries in Europe have decriminalised non-sexual toplessness. Topless swimming and sunbathing on beaches has become acceptable in many parts of Europe, though the practice remains controversial in many places, and not common in most places. Many public swimming pools in Europe are owned by municipalities, which are treated as private organisations and allowed to set their dress codes.\n\nIn many countries around the world, breastfeeding in public is not unusual. During 2006–2010 and earlier, a number of news reports in the United States cited incidents where women were refused service or harassed for breastfeeding in public. In response, a majority of U.S. states have passed laws explicitly permitting nursing in public. The United States federal government enacted a law in 1999 which specifically provides that \"a woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized to be present at the location.\" However, these laws generally do not apply to rules imposed by private organizations or on private property, such as restaurants, airlines, or shopping malls.\n\nIn support of Adda Smaradottir's FreeTheNipple act in public cyberspace, young women uploaded their topless photos to Facebook and protested against its Community Standards of considering women's breasts as sexual materials. Those photos and related news articles were blocked initially, but Facebook considered those photos did not violate Community Standards.\n\nBathing and sunbathing in the nude (including topless) is legal on Danish beaches. Nudity and toplessness in other public outdoor places is generally also legal, unless it is involves \"offensive conduct\" or is likely to cause public outrage. The public outrage law is rarely used in practice, but in 1972 audience members were convicted of being nude in the Royal Danish Theatre. In December 2007, a group of women and men calling themselves Topless Front swam topless in public swim baths to promote topless equality. In March 2008, after a campaign by the group, Copenhagen's Culture and Leisure Committee voted to allow topless bathing in its swimming pools. After the Committee had voted, it was revealed that no laws had existed against topless bathing, effectively making the vote unnecessary. However, some public baths had (and have) restricted it themselves. Public breastfeeding is supported by the vast majority of both sexes in Denmark, is entirely legal and accepted almost all places, except for a few private cafés and restaurants that have restricted it.\n\nIn France, the feminist collective Les TumulTueuses organized a topfree protest in Paris in May 2009.\n\nIn Greece toplessness is not illegal and is widely practiced by locals and tourists alike as there are no cultural taboos against it.\n\nIn Poland in 2008–2009, two women from Szczecin including glamour model Dorota Krzysztofek, won a court battle that reasserted the women's right to sunbathe topless on public beaches. Krzysztofek, along with her female companion, were fined by local municipal officials for topless sunbathing at a public recreation area. The women refused to pay the fine and took the matter to Civil Court. Their first hearing had to be postponed due to remarkable media interest.\n\nOn November 7, 2008, judge Szczepańska upheld the city staff decision, and charged the women with indecent exposure, explaining that their personal freedoms cannot encroach on the freedoms of families with children who frequent the same recreation spot. Although topless sunbathing is not prohibited in Poland, the judge sentenced them to pay a fine of 230 zloty (150 zloty by different source, or €40, $55) for breaking the rules of conduct. In her rationale, the judge also said that it is not up to the defendants to teach youngsters human anatomy; however, her decision was appealed by Krzysztofek's female friend soon afterwards, with the plea of not guilty.\n\nThe appellate court declared both women to be innocent, because the city staff were unable to prove that anyone at the beach was indignant or scandalized by their toplessness, and no complaint was ever reported. On the contrary, some visitors stood up to their defense. There were no signs at the recreation area against what is otherwise legal. The appellate court's decision was binding, but it also created an aura of ambivalence, with topless sunbathing in public declared acceptable only if nobody else including families with children formally objects to it.\n\nIn Sweden, toplessness is not illegal. However, private or public establishments are permitted to establish dress codes which may require women to wear tops, and deny access or remove individuals who breach these standards. In September 2007, \"Bara Bröst\" (a pun meaning both \"Just Breasts\" and \"Bare Breasts\") appeared to promote topless equality in these semi-public facilities. The group staged several events in public swim baths in September and October 2007, starting in Uppsala from which they were evicted several times, before succeeding in Sundsvall.\n\nThe group scored a victory in June 2009 when the Malmö city's sports and recreation committee approved new rules that, while requiring everybody to wear bathing suits at indoor public swimming pools, did not require women to cover their breasts. \"We don't define what bathing suits men should wear so it doesn't make much sense to do it for women. And besides, it's not unusual for men to have large breasts that resemble women's breasts\", said a council spokesman.\n\nIn 1991 toplessness as an indecent act was challenged by Gwen Jacob in Guelph, Ontario, who removed her shirt and was charged with indecency. Part of her defence was the double standards between men and women. Although she was convicted, this was overturned by the Court of Appeal. This case determined that being topless is not indecent under the meaning of the Criminal Code. However it did not establish any constitutional right of equality. This case subsequently led to the acquittal of women in British Columbia and Saskatchewan who faced similar charges. Although each province and territory technically reserves its right to interpret the law as it pleases, the Ontario case has proven influential. Since the matter has not been determined by the Supreme Court of Canada, it is still possible that a woman could be convicted elsewhere in Canada, but interpretation of moral law in Canada has become increasingly liberalized. There do not appear to have been any further women charged in Canada since these cases were determined.\n\nIn the United States, states have primary jurisdiction in matters of public morality. The topfreedom movement has claimed success in a few instances in persuading some state and federal courts to overturn some state laws on the basis of sex discrimination or equal protection, arguing that a woman should be free to expose her chest in any context in which a man can expose his. Other successful cases have been on the basis of freedom of expression in protest, or simply that exposure of breasts is not indecent (or similar terminology).\n\nLaws and ordinances barring female toplessness are being challenged in federal courts around the nation. Each lawsuit, if it prevails at the appellate level, will legalize topfreedom in the following U.S. circuits of appeal (from west to east): 9 (California), 10 (Colorado), 8 (Missouri) and 4 (Maryland). A federal lawsuit in the 7th Circuit (Illinois), was lost at the appellate level and the petition for review by the U.S. Supreme Court was denied.\n\nState law allows public nudity that is neither lewd nor offensive.\n\nSan Francisco allows public female toplessness, although public nudity is banned as of February 2013. Women cannot be topless in San Francisco parks without advance permission from the city.\n\nIn Berkeley it is a misdemeanor or infraction for a woman to expose \"any portion of the breast at or below the areola\".\n\nOakland's immoral dress law says that women cannot wear \"any type of clothing so that any portion of such part of the breast may be observed\".\n\nSan Jose bars anything \"less than completely and opaquely covered\" female breasts.\n\nIn Los Angeles, UCSD graduate student Anni Ma, a \"Free the Nipple\" protester, was arrested for indecent exposure at a Bernie Sanders rally on March 23, 2016, when she removed masking tape covering her nipples. She has filed a federal lawsuit against the Los Angeles Police Department. Her attorney claims she was never \"nude\" and that California's indecent exposure law applies only to genitals, not breasts. She is also suing for constitutional violations, gender discrimination and violations of federal civil rights laws. She was topless at a Bernie Sanders campaign rally, Saturday, March 19, 2016 in Phoenix, and she was led to the back of the venue without incident. Saturday January 23, 2016, Anni Ma, as a FEMEN activist, Carly Mitchell, Chelsea Ducote and Marston protested \"Walk For Life\" at San Francisco City Hall and Civic Center \n\nThe Venice Beach neighborhood of Los Angeles, in 1974, was home to a nudist colony that scandalized the community, attracted cameras and spurred LA to ban nudity. Venice Neighborhood Council, in 2015, moved to make the area exempt from the city's ban on topless sunbathing.\n\nOn February 22, 2017, U.S. District Judge R. Brooke Jackson granted a preliminary injunction against a Fort Collins ordinance banning female toplessness saying it likely violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment due to gender-based discrimination. Britt Hoagland, Samantha Six and Free the Nipple - Fort Collins brought the case in May 2016. The judge wrote: \"the naked female breast is seen as disorderly or dangerous because society, from Renaissance paintings to Victoria's Secret commercials, has conflated female breasts with genitalia and stereotyped them as such. The irony is that by forcing women to cover up their bodies, society has made naked women's breasts something to see.\" Fort Collins is appealing the district court's ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. On January 17, 2018, a three-judge panel of the 10th Circuit heard Fort Collins' appeal of the preliminary injunction ruling. If the district court's ruling is upheld on appeal, discriminatory anti-topless laws in the territory of the Tenth Circuit (Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, Kansas, and Oklahoma) will be unenforceable.\n\nDenver and Boulder do not distinguish between male and female toplessness.\n\nA Florida statute about indecent exposure prohibits the vulgar or indecent exposure of sexual organs but does not specify if female breasts are included as sexual organs. The right to breastfeed in public is expressly protected, and one Florida court inferred that this exception indicates that female breasts are sexual organs and the Supreme Court of Florida held that a separate statute about disorderly conduct can be used to prosecute female toplessness. Courts have rejected equal protection arguments.\n\nThe right of a woman to \"protest\" topless has been held to be a freedom of expression and not an equal protection issue. For example, in 2007, a Florida court acquitted a woman of indecent exposure for being topless on Daytona Beach because of the political nature of her stand, under the First Amendment right of free speech. Although there is only one known public place throughout the state where female toplessness is officially allowed (a nude beach located at Haulover Park, in Bal Harbour), topless bathing is tolerated on South Beach, along with a number of hotel pools in Miami Beach.\n\nSonoko Tagami, a GoTopless activist, was ticketed for toplessness and fined $100 plus $40 in fees. Tagami filed a federal lawsuit challenging the ordinance but the trial judge dismissed the case without a trial. She then appealed the dismissal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. The appeal was heard by a three-judge panel on November 1, 2016. On November 8, 2017, a divided three-judge panel upheld Illinois' ban on female topfreedom two to one. On March 12, 2018, Tagami petitioned to appeal her loss before the United States Supreme Court. On April 16, 2018, her petition was denied.\n\n\"Nudity is illegal in Maine only if genitals are displayed.\".\n\nOn May 20, 2017, Captain Butch Arbin, head of the Ocean City Beach Patrol instructed workers to document complaints of toplessness, but not approach topless women, even if the complainants requested it. Arbin changed the beach patrol's policy since the Maryland Attorney General has not released an opinion about female public toplessness in response to a formal request last year by a female resident and a topfree advocate who uses the pseudonym \"Chelsea Covington.\" In response, on June 10, 2017, the town held an emergency meeting and passed Emergency Ordinance 2017-10, which made it unlawful for all females of all ages to be bare-chested in public, for purposes other than breastfeeding, in the same locations where it is lawful for males to be bare-chested. Violations of the ordinance will result in a $1,000, fine. On January 16, 2018, Chelsea C. Eline, and four other women, represented by national civil rights attorney, Devon M. Jacob, of Jacob Litigation, filed a federal lawsuit against Ocean City. The lawsuit is captioned Eline, et al. v. Town of Ocean City, MD, et al., No. JKB-18-0145 (D.MD). The lawsuit seeks preliminary and permanent injunctive relief. On June 29, 2018, the Plaintiffs filed a motion for a preliminary injunction. On July 27, 2018, the Defendant filed a Memorandum in Opposition. On August 9, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a Reply Brief. On August 22, 2018, the Court issued an Order, setting a hearing on the motion for September 21, 2018. On September 19, 2018, the Court issued an Order granting Plaintiffs’ motion to reschedule the hearing for the purpose of providing time for expert discovery to be completed prior to the hearing. In the Order, the Court set expert discovery deadlines: Plaintiffs, on or before October 5, 2018, and Defendant, on or before November 5, 2018. The Court rescheduled the hearing to December 7, 2018, at 11:00 AM. On October 5, 2018, Plaintiffs filed an expert report from Debby Herbenick, PhD, MPH, CSE.\n\nIn December 2007, 50 residents of Pittsfield, Massachusetts petitioned the City Council requesting a segregated beach for topless sunbathing by both men and women. The petition was rejected by the council, with the Mayor calling it \"unacceptable and unnecessary\". Proponents of topless sunbathing vowed to continue their fight. In 2010, 200 residents of Pittsfield placed a question on the ballot asking whether State laws should be clarified to allow topless sunbathing equally for both men and women. The proposal was defeated 2,934 to 6,855.\n\nOn October 26, 2015, the ACLU of Missouri, on behalf of Jessica Lawson and Amber Hutchison representing \"Free the Nipple—Springfield Residents Promoting Equality,\" filed suit against the City of Springfield over its anti-topless ordinance in the District Court for the Western District of Missouri of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. On January 22, 2016, the court granted a preliminary injunction barring the enforcement of the ordinance. On October 5, 2017, a federal judge upheld Springfield's ordinance that requires a woman, but not a man, to completely cover their areola with an opaque material.\n\nThe City of Lincoln has an ordinance prohibiting women from being topless.\n\nIn February 2016, a judge dismissed a case against two female \"Free the Nipple\" activists, Heidi Lilley and Barbara MacKinnon, who were cited for being topless at Gilford beach. Because the judge decided \"the town lacked authority for a prosecution because there is no state law that prohibits the exposure of female breasts in public,\" and the town \"lacked authority for a criminal prosecution that's neither prohibited by the criminal code nor by statute,\" a bill to ban women from exposing their nipples in public was introduced. The bill would make it a misdemeanor for women to show their breasts or nipples in public with \"reckless disregard\" for whether it would offend someone. The New Hampshire chapter of the ACLU opposed the bill. On March 9, 2016, the proposed ban legislation was defeated. On February 1, 2018, the appeal was heard by the state supreme court.\n\nIn 2008, Jill Coccaro, aka Phoenix Feeley, of New York City (see also New York, below) visited the beach at Spring Lake, New Jersey. She did not wear a top and was arrested when she refused to cover up. She was given a T-shirt but left the police department and took it off, and was arrested again. She was charged with violating a borough ordinance prohibiting public nudity. She appealed the conviction to the state appeals court, and the two-judge panel—one man, one woman—ruled against her. \"Restrictions on the exposure of the female breast are supported by the important governmental interest in safeguarding the public's moral sensibilities.\" The court cited \"State of New Jersey v. Arlene Vogt\" (2001) as precedent. In that case, Vogt was fined after she appeared on Higbee Beach in Cape May County, New Jersey without a shirt.\n\nIn the five years since she was found guilty and fined, she appealed the case to the New Jersey state appellate court, who ruled against her. The New Jersey Supreme Court refused to hear her appeal. Legally representing herself, she then appealed to the United States Supreme Court, but it too refused to hear her appeal.\n\nShe would not pay the $816 fine, telling Judge George Pappas, \"I refuse to pay the fines for an act that is legal for a man, but not legal for a woman.\" The judge sentenced her to 16 days but she was released after only eight for good behavior. Ron Taft, a Manhattan attorney, offered to pay her fine but Coccaro refused, desiring to make a point. She went on a hunger strike. The GoTopless group organized a protest outside the jail where Coccaro was held, but only two individuals attended. Taft commented, \"The point is, there are guys with larger breasts than women, and sometimes they take their top off.\"\n\nThe City of Albuquerque has an anti-topless ordinance.\n\nIn 1986, seven women who picnicked topless were charged in Rochester, New York with baring \"that portion of the breast which is below the top of the areola\". That law had originally been enacted to discourage 'topless' waitresses. The women were initially convicted, but on appeal two of the women's charges were reversed by the New York State Court of Appeals in 1992 on equal protection grounds in \"Santorelli's\" case.\n\nJill Coccaro, aka Phoenix Feeley, of New York City, was arrested in 2005 in New York City for walking along a street without wearing a shirt. She sued the city for violating a New York State Supreme Court ruling in \"Santorelli's\" case which had declared that women can go topless in public. The city finally paid $29,000 to settle her lawsuit. The Outdoor Co-ed Topless Pulp Fiction Appreciation Society has since 2011 organized regular gatherings around New York City of women who read books in public while topless. The objective of the group, besides enjoying the sun and book reading, is to create awareness that New York law allows toplessness in public and to change social attitudes to the exposure of breasts. Although participation has been very small, there has been no harassment of the participants either by the police or the public. The Topless New York series, created by an anonymous New York City photographer in 2007, is another effort to raise awareness of women's topless rights in New York State, and normalize the exercise of those rights, by publishing photographs of women topless in public all over New York City and other areas of New York State.\n\nHolly Van Voast, a Bronx photographer and performance artist, was detained, arrested or issued summonses 10 times during 2011 and 2012. Among other places, she went topless on the Staten Island Ferry, at the Oyster Bar in Grand Central Terminal, in front of an elementary school, on a train, and outside a Hooters restaurant. After her arrest in front of the Hooters, police officers took her to a hospital for a psychiatric evaluation. On October 11, 2011, she appeared in the Midtown Community Court and promptly removed her top, baring her breasts, in front of the judge. All the charges were dismissed. Van Voast filed a federal lawsuit on May 15 against the city and the police department.\n\nIn February 2013, the New York City Police Department issued a command to all its officers through their daily roll call. It reminded officers that they are not to cite or arrest a woman for public lewdness, indecent exposure or any other section of the Penal Law for \"simply exposing their breasts in public.\"\n\nOregon's indecent exposure law criminalizes only nudity that is intended to sexually arouse the public. The cities of Portland, Eugene, Ashland and Happy Valley all have local ordinances against exposing genitalia, but not against exposing female breasts.\n\nPennsylvania laws do not directly address the issue, are ambiguous and have been used to prosecute female toplessness under open lewdness, indecent exposure or disorderly conduct.\n\nIn 1972, the Texas Equal Rights Amendment was passed into law, which communities in Lewisville, TX and Fort Worth, TX have used to strike down gendered ordinances, including toplessness. However, women in Texas appearing topless in public can be charged under public nuisance laws, with the exception of Austin, the state capital, where some women sunbathe topless in Zilker Park, at various festivals, and at Hippie Hollow. In 2013, Lewisville, TX's nudity laws were updated to indicate that food staff must wear 'decent covering'.\n\nOther successful cases include:\n\nIn Australia, indecent exposure laws only refer to the genital area, so technically both male and female toplessness is legal. However, many local councils impose their own rules, and have the power to ask topless people to leave an area. Additionally, women who go topless are sometimes slapped with more vague charges such as being a public nuisance, or offensive behaviour.\n\nOn public beaches, local bylaws are not heavily enforced, and women can often sunbake topless without fuss.\n\nBreastfeeding in public places is a legal right in Australia. Under the Sex Discrimination Act 1984, no business or service provider can discriminate against a breastfeeding woman. Women can still breastfeed even if no other food/drink is allowed in the area. If a special baby care room is available for breastfeeding, women are not required to use it unless they wish to. If someone abuses a beastfeeding woman or forces her to leave, this may come under state/territory harassment laws. These protections also include women who are expressing breast milk for their baby.\n\nIn New Zealand, there is no specific law prohibiting nudity in public places. If a person is nude \"and\" also exhibiting lewd and lascivious, or obscene behaviour, then they may fall afoul of laws.\n\nThe High Court of New Zealand has upheld a conviction of disorderly conduct for nudity in the street, because it was not a place where nudity was known to occur or commonplace. Being nude in the street is likely to incur a small fine if a complaint is made against the person, or if the person ignores a police order to cover themselves. However in practice, the likelyhood of being prosecuted for nudity on a public beach is low, providing the person keeps to themselves.\n\nIn 2012, a woman swam topless on Opunake beach. The police were called, but informed the callers that toplessness was not an offence.\n\nIn 2017, nudists used the beach at Tauranga, which causes consternation among some residents. However, the local council said there were no bylaws dealing with the issue, and that nudity was not an offence.\n"}
{"id": "28934119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28934119", "title": "Topic model", "text": "Topic model\n\nIn machine learning and natural language processing, a topic model is a type of statistical model for discovering the abstract \"topics\" that occur in a collection of documents. Topic modeling is a frequently used text-mining tool for discovery of hidden semantic structures in a text body. Intuitively, given that a document is about a particular topic, one would expect particular words to appear in the document more or less frequently: \"dog\" and \"bone\" will appear more often in documents about dogs, \"cat\" and \"meow\" will appear in documents about cats, and \"the\" and \"is\" will appear equally in both. A document typically concerns multiple topics in different proportions; thus, in a document that is 10% about cats and 90% about dogs, there would probably be about 9 times more dog words than cat words. The \"topics\" produced by topic modeling techniques are clusters of similar words. A topic model captures this intuition in a mathematical framework, which allows examining a set of documents and discovering, based on the statistics of the words in each, what the topics might be and what each document's balance of topics is.\n\nTopic models are also referred to as probabilistic topic models, which refers to statistical algorithms for discovering the latent semantic structures of an extensive text body. In the age of information, the amount of the written material we encounter each day is simply beyond our processing capacity. Topic models can help to organize and offer insights for us to understand large collections of unstructured text bodies. Originally developed as a text-mining tool, topic models have been used to detect instructive structures in data such as genetic information, images, and networks. They also have applications in other fields such as bioinformatics.\n\nAn early topic model was described by Papadimitriou, Raghavan, Tamaki and Vempala in 1998. Another one, called probabilistic latent semantic analysis (PLSA), was created by Thomas Hofmann in 1999. Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), perhaps the most common topic model currently in use, is a generalization of PLSA. Developed by David Blei, Andrew Ng, and Michael I. Jordan in 2002, LDA introduces sparse Dirichlet prior distributions over document-topic and topic-word distributions, encoding the intuition that documents cover a small number of topics and that topics often use a small number of words. Other topic models are generally extensions on LDA, such as Pachinko allocation, which improves on LDA by modeling correlations between topics in addition to the word correlations which constitute topics.\n\nApproaches for temporal information include Block and Newman's determination of the temporal dynamics of topics in the \"Pennsylvania Gazette\" during 1728–1800. Griffiths & Steyvers use topic modeling on abstracts from the journal \"PNAS\" to identify topics that rose or fell in popularity from 1991 to 2001. Nelson has been analyzing change in topics over time in the \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\" to understand social and political changes and continuities in Richmond during the American Civil War. Yang, Torget and Mihalcea applied topic modeling methods to newspapers from 1829–2008. Mimno used topic modelling with 24 journals on classical philology and archaeology spanning 150 years to look at how topics in the journals change over time and how the journals become more different or similar over time.\n\nYin et al. introduced a topic model for geographically distributed documents, where document positions are explained by latent regions which are detected during inference.\n\nChang and Blei included network information between linked documents in the relational topic model, which allows to model links between websites.\n\nThe author-topic model by Rosen-Zvi et al. models the topics associated with authors of documents to improve the topic detection for documents with authorship information.\n\nIn practice researchers attempt to fit appropriate model parameters to the data corpus using one of several heuristics for maximum likelihood fit. A recent survey by Blei describes this suite of algorithms.\nSeveral groups of researchers starting with Papadimitriou et al. have attempted to design algorithms with probable guarantees. Assuming that the data were actually generated by the model in question, they try to design algorithms that probably find the model that was used to create the data. Techniques used here include singular value decomposition (SVD) and the method of moments. In 2012 an algorithm based upon non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) was introduced that also generalizes to topic models with correlations among topics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "750795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750795", "title": "United States Senate Committee on Finance", "text": "United States Senate Committee on Finance\n\nThe United States Senate Committee on Finance (or, less formally, Senate Finance Committee) is a standing committee of the United States Senate. The Committee concerns itself with matters relating to taxation and other revenue measures generally, and those relating to the insular possessions; bonded debt of the United States; customs, collection districts, and ports of entry and delivery; deposit of public moneys; general revenue sharing; health programs under the Social Security Act (notably Medicare and Medicaid) and health programs financed by a specific tax or trust fund; national social security; reciprocal trade agreements; tariff and import quotas, and related matters thereto; and the transportation of dutiable goods. It is considered to be one of the most powerful committees in Congress.\n\nThe Committee on Finance is one of the original committees established in the Senate. First created on December 11, 1815, as a select committee and known as the Committee on Finance and an [sic] Uniform National Currency, it was formed to alleviate economic issues arising from the War of 1812. On December 10, 1816 the Senate officially created the Committee on Finance as a standing committee. Originally, the Committee had power over tariffs, taxation, banking and currency issues and appropriations. Under this authority the committee played an influential role in the most heated topics of the era; including numerous tariffs issues and the Bank War. The committee was also influential in the creation of the Department of Interior in 1849. Under the Chairmanship of William Pitt Fessenden, the committee played a decisive role during the Civil War. Appropriating all funds for the war effort as well as raising enough funds to finance the war through tariffs and the nation's first income tax. Additionally, the committee produced the Legal Tender Act of 1862, the nation's first reliance on paper currency.\n\nIn 1865 the House of Representatives created an Appropriations Committee to relieve the burden from the Committee on Ways and Means. The Senate followed this example by forming the Appropriations Committee in 1867.\n\nDespite the loss of one of its signature duties the committee continued to play a prominent role in the major issues of the nation. The committee was at the center of the debate over the silver question in the latter half of the 19th Century. Passage of the Bland-Allison Act and the Sherman Silver Purchase Act were attempts to remedy the demand for silver, though the silver cause would eventually fail by the end of the century. The committee also continued to play a role in the debate over income taxes. The repeal of the Civil War income taxes in the 1870s would eventually be raised in 1894 with the passage of a new income tax law. The Supreme Court's decision in ruled the income tax as unconstitutional, since it was not based on apportionment. The fight for an income tax finally culminated with the Payne-Aldrich Tariff Act of 1909. In order to pass the new tariff Senate leaders, including Chairman Nelson Aldrich, allowed for a Constitutional Amendment to be passed. Four years later the 16th Amendment was officially ratified and in 1913 the nation's first peacetime income tax was instituted.\n\nAround that same time the committee lost jurisdiction over banking and currency issues to the newly created Committee on Banking and Currency. The committee did gain jurisdiction over veterans’ benefits when it successfully passed the War Risk Insurance Act of 1917. The act shifted pensions from gratuities to benefits and which served as one of the first life insurance programs created under the federal government.\n\nThe Finance Committee continued to play an increasingly important role in the lives of the nation's veterans. The committee helped to consolidate the veteran bureaucracy by streamlining the various responsibilities into a Veterans' Bureau which ultimately would become the Veterans' Administration. In 1924 the committee passed a \"Bonus Bill\" for World War I veterans which compensated veterans of that war for their service. These series of increasing and providing better benefits for veterans reached a crescendo in 1944 with the passage of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act. Senator Bennett \"Champ\" Clark, who served as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Veterans, assured smooth sailing of the bill through the Senate. The bill not only ended the usual demands from returning veterans which had been seen in nearly every war America had participated in, but also provided the most generous benefits that veterans had ever received, including continuing education, loans and unemployment insurance.\n\nNot all Finance Committee legislation was as well received as the G.I. Bill. At the beginning of the Great Depression the committee passed the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act. The act greatly increased tariffs and had a negative effect on the nation's economy. Following traditional economic practices the members of the committee, including Chairman Reed Smoot, felt that protection of American businesses was required in order to buoy them during the dire economic times. The effort backfired and the economic situation worsened. The Smoot-Hawley Tariff would eventually be replaced by the Reciprocal Tariff Act of 1934 which authorized the President to negotiate trade agreements. This act not only set up the trade policy system as it exists today but also effectively transferred trade making policy from the Congress to the President.\n\nThe committee also played an important role in two major acts created under the New Deal. The committee received jurisdiction over the National Industrial Recovery Act because of tax code changes in the bill. The new bureaucracy was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's attempt to stimulate the economy and promote jobs for unemployed Americans while also regulating businesses. The National Recovery Administration would ultimately fail as it lost public support but the act served as a springboard to the Wagner Act and the National Labor Board.\n\nProbably the single biggest, and by far one of the most lasting, piece of legislation enacted by the Finance Committee during the New Deal was the Social Security Act. Once again the committee received jurisdiction owing to the payroll taxes that would be enacted to pay for the new program. The act was the first effort by the federal government to provide benefits to the elderly and the unemployed. The act greatly enhanced the economic welfare of many elderly Americans.\n\nIn 1981, a Senate Resolution required the printing of the History of the Committee on Finance.\n\nThe role of the Committee on Finance is very similar to that of the House Committee on Ways and Means. The one exception in area of jurisdiction is that the Committee on Finance has jurisdiction over both Medicare and Medicaid, while the House Ways and Means Committee only has jurisdiction over Medicare. (The House Energy and Commerce Committee has jurisdiction over Medicaid.) The other difference in terms of power is that all revenue raising measures must originate in the House giving the Ways and Means Committee a slight edge in setting tax policy. In addition to having jurisdiction over legislation the Committee has extensive oversight powers. It has authority to investigate, review and evaluate existing laws, and the agencies that implement them.\n\nDue to the Committee's wide jurisdiction, it is often considered an influential committee. A wide array of Senators with differing policy concerns seek membership on the Committee because of its role in setting tax, trade, and health policy.\n\nSource\n\n"}
{"id": "22609071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22609071", "title": "We Cheer 2", "text": "We Cheer 2\n\nWe Cheer 2, known in Japan as , is a dance video game developed by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It is the sequel to \"We Cheer\".\n\nThe gameplay is the same as the original \"We Cheer\" using the Wii Remote as a virtual pom-poms. In the single player mode, players can use either two Wii Remotes (one in each hand) or one Wii Remote (in either the left or right hand) to follow the on-screen motions. The game also offers cooperative and competitive modes for up to 4 players. New to the game are further customization of characters and the ability to play as a male or female cheerleader.\n\nThe game features 30 licensed music tracks.\n\nThe game received \"mixed\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. In Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of one eight, two sevens, and one eight for a total of 30 out of 40.\n\n"}
{"id": "19760455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19760455", "title": "Willard L. Boyd", "text": "Willard L. Boyd\n\nWillard Lee Boyd (born March 29, 1927) is an American legal scholar, academic administrator, and\nPresident Emeritus of The University of Iowa and Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, Illinois. He is currently on the faculty of the University of Iowa College of Law as the Rawlings/Miller Professor of Law and President Emeritus.\n\nBoyd grew up on Commonwealth Avenue in St. Paul, MN, attending Murray High School, St. Paul, Minnesota, graduating in 1944. He served as a U.S. Navy Hospital Corpsman from 1945 to 1947. He went on the University of Minnesota, where he earned his B.S.L in 1949, and received his LL.B. from the University of Minnesota Law School in 1951. He was admitted to the Minnesota Bar in 1951. Boyd then attended the University of Michigan Law School, where he received an LL.M. in 1952. He worked as an Associate attorney at Minneapolis law firm Dorsey & Whitney from 1952 to 1954.\n\nAfter a brief time in private practice, Boyd entered academia, teaching law at The University of Iowa College of Law from 1954 to 1964; during this time he earned his S.J.D. from Michigan in 1962. He became a member of the Iowa Bar in 1958. His career as an academic administrator began in 1964, when he served as Associate Dean of the College of Law before becoming Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculties for The University of Iowa, a position he held from 1964 to 1968.\n\nIn 1969, Boyd succeeded Howard Bowen as the fifteenth President of The University of Iowa. He served until 1981, and was eventually followed by James O. Freedman. He served as Chairman of the American Association of Universities from 1979 to 1980.\n\nAfter ending his tenure as a university president, Boyd served as the President of the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago from 1981 to 1996. During this time, he was one of the first recipients of the Charles Frankel Prize (now the National Humanities Medal) in 1989, honoring his efforts to bring history, literature, philosophy and other humanities disciplines to general audiences.\n\nHe returned to Iowa in 1996 to teach at the College of Law again. A central focus of his return to Iowa was creating the Iowa Nonprofit Resource Center (which became the Larned A. Waterman Iowa Nonprofit Resource Center after a significant gift from the Waterman family); he taught courses which supported learning in the nonprofit area. In 2002 he served as interim president, holding the role between 2002 and 2003 until being succeeded by David J. Skorton. After serving as Acting President, he returned to teaching as the Rawlings-Miller Professor of Law in 2003; he also was the Chester Phillips Research Fellow at the Tippie College of Business at Iowa from 2003 to 2006.\n\nHe is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Law Institute, the Department of State Cultural Property Advisory Committee and the board of National Arts Strategies and chairs the Iowa Cultural Trust. Willard is also a Trustee of the Roy J. Carver Trust.\n\nThe Boyd Law Building at the University of Iowa is named for him.\n\n"}
