{"id": "16133177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16133177", "title": "Adventure Rock", "text": "Adventure Rock\n\nAdventure Rock (previously known as CBBC World) was a virtual online world for children based on Ketnetkick, and created by the BBC in association with Ketnet, owned and operated by the Vlaamse Radio- en Televisieomroep (VRT), Flanders' public broadcaster. The game was originally aimed at the Belgian market, but was redeveloped for a UK audience of children aged between 6–12 years old. The emphasis on the system was on safety and responsibility, with no chatrooms or the financial aspects available in other online worlds such as Linden Lab's \"Second Life\".\n\nController of CBBC Richard Deverell said:\nAdventure Rock was shut down in 2009 due to lack of popularity, updates and repairs.\n\n\"Adventure Rock\" consists of a large virtual world which players explore using customised avatars. They are accompanied by Cody, a floating robot who guides and helps the player.\n\nThe game starts with a tutorial in which Cody teaches the player how to control the avatar. Following that, the player is 'dropped' onto Adventure Rock, and is free to explore. There are a number of continuous tasks to do, such as collecting the hundreds of cog-shaped tokens, or pages torn from a book, the purpose of which was still unknown at the time of the game's closure. In doing these, the player gains points. There are also a number of different 'studios', including an art studio, a music studio and an animation studio, in which the player can create their own animations etc. which can then be submitted to CBBC.\n\nThere are a number of areas which were closed off, such as a roller coaster. Some of these were released over time but the game was taken down with many areas still locked.\n\nThe game was based around a story narrated on the \"Adventure Rock\" website. The story section of the website states that:\n\nThe website then continues in the style of a blog written by the hosts sent to explore the world, detailing various discoveries made by the hosts. The blog goes on to detail how the hosts are returning to the studio to examine the pages found, and that they need more help, and will hence be sending in CBBC users to investigate further.\n\n\"Adventure Rock\" was the subject of a year-long joint research project between CBBC and the University of Westminster, funded by BBC Future Media and Technology, and the Arts and Humanities Research Council which began in July 2007, and aims to look at how children engage with virtual worlds. It is the first time the BBC has run a structured commissioning round calling for research in partnership with academia. \"Adventure Rock\" will be studied from both an audience and producer’s point of view, with the hope of finding out how children create imaginary places and spaces in the real world, how children wish \"Adventure Rock\" to develop, how producers should adapt the way they engage with children around the \"Adventure Rock\" ‘brand’ (which includes the service, website, message boards etc.) and what parents think of \"Adventure Rock\" (specifically whether the service changes their perception of \"Adventure Rock\" and/or virtual worlds in general).\n\nThe project will also study why the BBC chose to make \"Adventure Rock\" a closed world where users' avatars cannot meet or communicate, and what children think of this.\n\nResearch workshops have already taken place in December 2007 and January 2008, with 75 participants aged 7–11 years, in five mixed socio-economic and ethnic groups located in Scotland, Wales, N Ireland, and England. At this workshop the children were asked to talk about imaginary spaces and places, and suggest what they would like to see in a virtual world. Six weeks later, during which the children were asked to explore \"Adventure Rock\", a second workshop was held in which the children made creative suggestions about what they would add or remove from this virtual place. Parents were asked to complete a questionnaire regarding their feelings about their children participating in this virtual world. In addition, a researcher spent time observing the producers and hosts of CBBC, completing a detailed research diary, which was then used to note congruencies and disparities between producers' expectations and children's own responses.\n\nThe findings have been presented at the Conference on Virtual Worlds for Children, on 23 May 2008.\n\n\"Adventure Rock\" received many complaints from its users. For example, on the CBBC Games Messageboards, many have stated that they have problems downloading, opening or playing the game. Lack of support for these led to many players abandoning the game and to its eventual shutdown.\n\n"}
{"id": "6074153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6074153", "title": "Akai Ito (video game)", "text": "Akai Ito (video game)\n\nAkai Ito has not been officially released outside Japan, but there has been a fan effort to translate it, similar to the popular dōjin game \"Tsukihime\".\n\nTo arrange the inheritance because of the loss of her mother, Kei Hatō heads for her father's house in Hemizuka. In the train on the way there, Kei has a mysterious dream of a huge tree and a woman who seems to be lost in sadness. In Hemizuka, Kei learns the secret concealed in her own blood through various meeting with an Oni Slayer, a friend of her late mother, a young girl accompanied by a white fox, and even the mysterious girl from her dreams. Throughout the story Kei is antagonized by the twin oni Nozomi and Mikage. Akai Ito's story varies greatly based upon the player's decisions, which not only affect the flow of the story but also the ending the player receives (several of which suggest romantic feelings among the female characters).\n\nThe main character of the story, Kei is a rather careless person, which is quite ironic considering her favorite phrase is \"always be prepared\".\nThe mysterious girl from Kei's dreams.\nThe Oni Slayer Kei meets at the train station, her sword is the very bane of the oni.\nA girl half Kei's age, accompanied by a white fox. Kei meets her in her father's now abandoned house.\nA friend of Kei's deceased mother. She goes by the nickname \"West\".\nTwin oni and the antagonists of the story.\nA mysterious male, later known as Kei's brother called Hakuka.\n\n\n\nAkai Ito has also received several manga adaptations: a one-shot by Muttri Moony published in the July 2004 issue of Yuri Shimai, by the name \"Swear\"; and a short manga published in the May and June 2007 issues of Monthly Comic Rush. A special anthology was created for a limited edition version Akai Ito, the anthology featured various stories from different artists.\n\nA free web novel of Akai Ito was released on Success' official Akai Ito website, it follows one of the storylines accessible when playing the video game.\n\nOne drama CD has been released. It was first released as a Limited Edition version in October 2005 and later a regular version was released on December 26, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "3984907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3984907", "title": "Association of American Weather Observers", "text": "Association of American Weather Observers\n\nThe Association of American Weather Observers was a group of amateur weather observers from around the United States. Their aim was to educate the public on weather awareness and to simply share stories among themselves on recent extreme weather that they viewed at their location.\n\nThe AAWO originally began in 1983 in Westwood, New Jersey as a group of weather enthusiasts came together in October of that year to create the organization. The AAWO disbanded in 1993 due to conflicts of interests. In 2005, a new weather organization under the same name was created to try to bring back what once existed within the old AAWO. Unlike the old organization, the new AAWO has yet to create a President and Board of directors. The AAWO that was established in 1983 and ended in 1993 is in no way affiliated with nor associated with the later organization that was established in 2005. However, some who were prominent members of the first AAWO had shown support for the new surge in bringing back the organization.\n\nWhen the AAWO began in 1983, their motto was \"Education, Communication, Cooperation\" and opened the door for amateur weather observers from all over the United States to communicate with each other via the American Weather Observer newspaper publication. Before the AAWO there was no nationally recognized organization for the amateur weather hobbyist to share stories and observational data among each other. The group not only had individual memberships, but also had a lengthy list of affiliate organizations that were mostly local or regional groups from within the U.S.. The restart of the AAWO in 2005 had the same basic plans as the old group had in 1983. One of the differences between the group created in 1983 versus 2005 is, in 2005, the American Weather Observer publication was owned and operated by the AAWO, where the publication created in 1984 was a separate entity owned by the Belvidere Republican in Belvidere, Illinois, and only affiliated themselves with the AAWO organization created in 1983 as the newspapers official network.\n\nBelvidere, Illinois, in the format of a newspaper called the American Weather Observer (AWO). Weather-related stories and weather observations recorded by the membership would be the major content of the newspaper.\n\n\nThe American Weather Observer was a newsletter publication presented by the Association of American Weather Observers(AAWO).\n\nEach issue had articles pertaining to significant weather events and was also a communications forum for the AAWO membership. The newsletter was mailed out in paperback format and was available on line at their web site in Adobe Acrobat format.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47721931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47721931", "title": "Bessie Loo", "text": "Bessie Loo\n\nBessie Loo (December 30, 1902 – October 28, 1998) was an American actress, casting director, and talent agent. She owned the Bessie Loo Talent Agency for over 40 years, and represented many of the Asian-American actors in 20th-century Hollywood.\n\nLoo was born as Bessie Sue in Hanford, California. Loo's father, Sue Chung Kee, immigrated to Hanford from China in 1886, and operated a general store there; Loo's mother was born in San Francisco. The Sue family lived above their store.\n\nLoo attended the University of California at Los Angeles, and graduated from San Francisco Teachers College in 1928.\n\nAs an actress of Chinese descent, Loo's acting career started in 1930s. Loo mostly played small parts. Loo appeared in \"The Good Earth\" (1937), and was a maid in \"Mr. Wong in Chinatown\" (1939); her husband Richard Loo was also in the cast of both films. She began working with Central Casting during the making of \"The Good Earth\", when her language skills proved useful with the many Chinese-speaking extras.\n\nDuring the opening of World War II, Loo started The Bessie Loo Talent Agency, with offices on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles, California. Loo represented Asian-American actors in the film industry, including Jack Ong, Keye Luke, Robert Ito, Beulah Quo, James Hong, Soon-Tek Oh, Mako Iwamatsu, Joan Chen, Lisa Lu, and Guy Lee (who eventually took over the agency when Bessie Loo retired). All the founding members of the East West Players were represented by Bessie Loo.\n\nBessie Loo served as president of the China Society of Southern California, and of the Los Angeles Chinese Women's Club. She was also an appointed member of the California State Economic Development Commission, and a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn 1978 her achievements were honored at a dinner of the Chinese Historical Society of Southern California, and in 1982 her friend and client James Hong organized an event with the Association of Asian Pacific American Artists (AAPAA) called \"An Affair with Bessie,\" to celebrate her career. Just weeks before she died, she was honored for \"Excellence in Entertainment\" by the Chinese American Museum of Los Angeles, at their annual Historymakers Awards Banquet.\n\nLoo married actor Richard Loo in 1929; they had twin daughters together, Beverly and Angela, born in 1931.\n\nIn 1998, Loo died. She was 95 years old. Archival footage of Loo, and a brief discussion of her work, was featured in the Arthur Dong documentary \"Hollywood Chinese\" (2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "57723582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57723582", "title": "BlackBoxTV Presents", "text": "BlackBoxTV Presents\n\nBlackBoxTV Presents is an American horror anthology web series created by Tony E. Valenzuela and Philip DeFranco. The first season, which featured a cast of YouTube creators including DeFranco, iJustine and Shane Dawson, was self-funded by Valenzuela and debuted on the BlackBoxTV YouTube channel on August 17, 2010. \n\nIn 2012, Valenzuela collaborated with \"CSI\" creator Anthony E. Zuiker to relaunch the BlackBoxTV YouTube channel as part of the YouTube Original Channel Initiative. Season three, dubbed \"BlackBoxTV: Silverwood\" premiered on the relaunched BlackBoxTV YouTube channel on April 13, 2012.\n\nThe season 5 premiere episode, \"How to Quit YouTube\" starring Wilson Cleveland as a vlogger lost in the desert debuted on YouTube on March 19, 2014. The episode, which Tubefilter writer Sam Gutelle called, \"an extreme version of the occasionally overwhelming demands of online video fame,\" earned Streamy Award nominations for Cleveland for Best Actor and Valenzuela for Best Director in 2014. \n\nThe season 5 episode, \"Versions of Elloise\" was produced in collaboration with Legendary Entertainment as part of “YouTube Space House of Horrors: A Legendary Halloween” and selected as one of ten finalists by Guillermo del Toro. \n\n\"BlackBoxTV Presents\" has won Streamy Awards for Best Writing: Drama (2013), Best Drama Series (2015) and Best Immersive Series (2017) and won Best Editing at the 2012 IAWTV Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "292805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292805", "title": "Blockbuster LLC", "text": "Blockbuster LLC\n\nBlockbuster LLC, formerly Blockbuster Entertainment, Inc., and also known as Blockbuster Video or simply Blockbuster, is an American-based provider of home movie and video game rental services through video rental shops, DVD-by-mail, streaming, video on demand, and cinema theater. Blockbuster became internationally known throughout the 1990s. At its peak in 2004, Blockbuster employed 84,300 people worldwide, including about 58,500 in the United States and about 25,800 in other countries, and had 9,094 stores in total, with more than 4,500 of these in the US.\n\nCompetition from the Netflix mail-order service, Redbox automated kiosks, and video on demand services were major factors in Blockbuster's eventual demise. Blockbuster began to lose significant revenue during the 2000s, and in 2010, the company filed for bankruptcy protection. The following year, its remaining 1,700 stores were bought by satellite television provider Dish Network.\n\nWhile the Blockbuster brand has mostly been retired, Dish maintained a small number of Blockbuster franchise agreements, which allowed some stores to remain open, eventually leaving just one U.S. store open in Bend, Oregon, and a few in Australia. In the Nordic countries, the brand rights are now held by TDC A/S, and Blockbuster continues as a video on demand service.\n\nBlockbuster's early beginnings can be traced back to another company, Cook Data Services, that was founded by David Cook in 1978. The company's primary goal was to supply software services to the oil and gas industries throughout Texas, but it was not very successful. Sandy Cook, David's wife, wanted to get into the video business, and her husband would soon study the industry and future prospects. Using profit he made from the sale of David P. Cook & Associates, the subsidiary of his company, he decided to buy into a video store franchise in Dallas known as Video Works. When Video Works would not allow him to decorate the interior of his store with a blue-and-yellow design, he departed the franchise and opened the first Blockbuster Video in 1985. When he realized the potential in video rentals, Cook abandoned the oil industry and renamed his company Blockbuster Entertainment.\n\nThe first Blockbuster store opened October 19, 1985, in Dallas, Texas, with an inventory of 8,000 VHS and 2,000 Beta tapes. Cook's experience with managing huge databases proved helpful in driving innovation within the industry. Following early success from the company's first stores, Cook built a $6-million warehouse in Garland, Texas, to help sustain and support future growth that allowed new stores to open quickly. Blockbuster would often custom-tailor a store's inventory to its neighborhood, based on local demographics.\n\nIn 1987, the company won a court case against Nintendo, which paved the way for video game rental. Also that year, Waste Management co-founder Wayne Huizenga, who originally had reservations about entering the video rental industry, agreed to acquire several Blockbuster stores. At that point the number of stores counted 19, and attracted Huizenga's associate John Melk's attention due to its efficiency, family-friendly image and business model, and convinced Huizenga to have a look at it. Huizenga and Melk utilized techniques from their waste business and Ray Kroc's model of expansion to rapidly expand Blockbuster, and soon they were opening a new store every 24 hours. They took over many of the existing Blockbuster franchise stores as well, and Huizenga even spent much of the late 1980s acquiring several of Blockbuster's rivals, including Major Video.\nIn 1990, Blockbuster bought mid-Atlantic rival Erol's which had more than 250 stores. In 1992, Blockbuster acquired the Sound Warehouse and Music Plus music retail chains and created Blockbuster Music. In October 1993, Blockbuster took controlling interest in Spelling Entertainment Group, a media company run by television producer Aaron Spelling. Blockbuster purchased Super Club Retail Entertainment Corp. on November 22, 1993 from Philips Electronics, N.V. for 5.2 million shares of Blockbuster stock. This brought approximately 270 Record Bar, Tracks, Turtles and Rhythm and Views music stores and approximately 160 video retail superstores into the corporation. It also owned 35% of Republic Pictures; that company merged with Spelling in April 1994.\n\nBlockbuster became a multibillion-dollar company, but Huizenga was worried about how new technology could threaten their business, such as video on demand and the growth of cable television. In 1991, just three days after Time Warner had announced they would upgrade their cable system, Blockbuster's shares dropped more than 10 percent. In 1993 he made an attempt to expand into other areas by investing in Viacom. Huizenga also considered buying a cable company, but this was unknown territory for Blockbuster and he decided not to take the risk. He also had the idea of a 2,500-acre Blockbuster sports and amusement park in Florida, something Blockbuster was still considering as late as August 1994. Unable to come up with a proper solution about how to face the growing threats to the traditional videostore, he made the decision to sell Blockbuster to Viacom and pull out. Viacom acquired Blockbuster in 1994 for $8.4 billion to help finance its bid for Paramount in the bidding war with QVC Network Inc. Blockbuster's stock trade had been dropping steadily the months before the merger, with a small rise after the deal was announced, and three years later, in 1997, it's worth was estimated to just $4.6 billion.\n\nThe Blockbuster Block Party concept was test-marketed in Albuquerque, New Mexico and Indianapolis, Indiana in 1994. It was an \"entertainment complex\" aimed at adults, containing eight themed areas housing a restaurant, games, laser tag arena, and motion simulator rides, and was housed in a windowless building the size of a city block.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Blockbuster expanded in the United Kingdom, purchasing that country's Ritz Video chain. The stores were rebranded to Blockbuster, making it the number one UK rental chain.\n\nIn 1996, the Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation was renamed Blockbuster Entertainment Inc. and the retail stores, then called Blockbuster Video, were renamed Blockbuster. The logo changed slightly, but retained the ITC Machine font. In November 1996 Blockbuster confirmed that it was moving its headquarters from Fort Lauderdale, Florida to the Renaissance Tower in downtown Dallas. Most of the workers at the Florida headquarters did not want to relocate, so Blockbuster planned to hire around 500 to 600 new employees for its Dallas headquarters. The company had offered various relocation packages to all of its Fort Lauderdale staff.\n\nIn 1998, Blockbuster created DEJ Productions, which acquired 225 films primarily to provide exclusive content to its Blockbuster stores prior to being sold off to First Look Studios in 2005. During that same year, Blockbuster bought the Irish video rental store Xtra-vision, with over 200 stores in Ireland and the UK. In 2009, Blockbuster sold off its Irish operations to Birchall Investments, with the few Xtra-vision stores in the UK being rebranded as Blockbuster.\n\nIn 1998, when DVDs were emerging as the new video medium, Warner Bros. offered Antioco an exclusive rental deal. Blockbuster would have rights to rent new DVD releases for a period of time before they went on sale to the general public. The studio would receive 40% of rental revenues in return, which was the same deal already in place for VHS rentals. Blockbuster turned the offer down, and the studio responded by lowering their DVD wholesale price in order to compete with the rental industry. Walmart seized the opportunity and in a few years surpassed Blockbuster as the studios' single largest source of revenue. Other mass retailers soon followed suit. Many began selling DVDs below wholesale price in hopes of selling more items with better profit margins as a result of the additional foot traffic in their stores. Unable to match prices, Blockbuster's business model was severely impacted.\n\nIn late 1998, Blockbuster launched a loyalty program called Blockbuster Rewards, where customers could earn free rentals and received an older title, called Blockbuster Favorites, rental free each month. After the 1998 test launch, the chain went nationwide with the program in 1999.\n\nIn August the same year, Viacom sold the Blockbuster Music chain to Wherehouse Entertainment, which was subsequently purchased by Trans World Entertainment in 2003.\nIn mid-2000, the company partnered with Enron in an attempt to create a video-on-demand service. Initially, the partnership was supposed to last for 20 years, however, Enron chose to terminate the deal in March 2001 over fears that Blockbuster would not be able to provide sufficient films for the service. Also in 2000 Blockbuster turned down a chance to purchase the still fledgling Netflix for $50 million.\n\nIn 2002, Blockbuster acquired Movie Trading Company, a Dallas chain that buys, sells, and trades movies and games, to study potential business models for DVD and game trading. Also that year, it acquired Gamestation, a 64-store UK computer and console games retailer chain, and purchased DVD Rental Central for $1 million, an Arizona father-and-son online DVD-rental company with about ten thousand subscribers. DVD Rental Central would eventually turn into Blockbuster Online.\n\nIn October 2004, Blockbuster was officially spun-off from Viacom. Online DVD subscription was introduced on Blockbuster.com, also known as Blockbuster Online. Blockbuster also rolled out its \"Game Rush\" store-in-store concept to approximately 450 domestic company-operated stores. Blockbuster began game and DVD trading in select U.S. stores.\n\nAt its peak in 2004, Blockbuster had more than 9,000 stores in the U.S. In December 2004, Blockbuster announced its intention to pursue a hostile takeover of Hollywood Video, its major U.S. competitor. After some extensions of the tender offer, Blockbuster eventually gave up due primarily to resistance from the FTC. \nIn response to the Blockbuster offer, Hollywood Video agreed to a buyout in January 2005 by a smaller competitor, the Dothan, Alabama-based Movie Gallery. Since then, Movie Gallery has filed for bankruptcy twice and its entire chain of stores has been liquidated.\n\nIn May 2005, financier Carl Icahn waged a successful proxy fight to add himself and two other members to the board. Icahn accused Blockbuster of overpaying chairman and CEO John F. Antioco, who had served in that capacity since 1997, receiving $51.6 million in compensation for 2004. Icahn was also at odds with Antioco on how to revive profit at Blockbuster; Antioco scrapped late fees in January, started an internet service, and wanted to keep the company independent, while Icahn wanted to sell out to a private equity firm. Also in 2005 Blockbuster began running a campaign promoting a \"No more late fees\" policy. The campaign proved controversial with Associated Press reporting that the new policy actually charged users the full price of the movie or game after eight days which they could cancel by returning the product in question and paying a fee. More than 40 states filed suit against the company for false advertising. Blockbuster would later settle the suit agreeing to refund customers as well as promising to better explain the policy.\n\nIn 2006, Vintage Stock acquired the Movie Trading Company name from Blockbuster and continues to use the name for Dallas-area stores.\n\nA billion-dollar campaign called Total Access was introduced in 2007 as a strategy against Netflix. Through Blockbuster Online customers could rent a DVD online and receive a new movie for free when they returned it to a Blockbuster store. While it was a major success every free movie cost the company two dollars, but the hope was that it would attract enough new subscribers to cover the loss. Netflix felt threatened, and Hastings approached Antioco with a suggestion to buy Blockbuster's online business. In return, a new system would be introduced where customers could return their movies to a Blockbuster store. Before the deal could be realized, investor Carl Icahn interfered. Icahn refused to let the company lose more money through Total Access. Antioco was pushed out and replaced with James Keyes, who rejected Hasting's proposal, raised the price on online DVD rentals and put an end to the free movie deal. As a consequence, Blockbuster Online's previously massive growth quickly stopped.\nIn July Antioco left the company, reportedly due to continued controversy over his compensation. He left with a $24.7 million severance package.\n\nOn June 19, 2007, after a pilot program launched in late 2006, Blockbuster announced that it had chosen Blu-ray over HD DVD rental format to rent in a majority of its stores. In the pilot program, Blockbuster offered selected titles for rental and sale in 250 stores. Blockbuster stocked Blu-ray titles in almost 5,000 stores across the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Mexico, and Australia.\n\nOn July 2, 2007, the company named James W. Keyes, former president and CEO of 7-Eleven, as the new chairman and CEO. He introduced a new business strategy that included enhancements to existing stores along with a shift to streaming video with the acquisition of MovieLink in September 2008. Part of the plan was to de-emphasize the unprofitable Total Access (DVD-by-mail) service, in favor of online streaming. In December 2008, he still ignored both Netflix and Redbox, focusing on Apple and Walmart instead; \"Neither RedBox nor Netflix are even on the radar screen in terms of competition. It's more Walmart and Apple.\"\n\nOn September 14, 2007, Blockbuster GB Ltd bought a number of retail stores from ChoicesUK plc. ChoicesUK is an AIM-listed multi-channel distributor and retailer of DVDs, computer games, and CDs. The sale secured employment for approximately 450 employees across 59 stores in the UK. As part of the transaction, Blockbuster GB rebranded the stores as Blockbuster.\n\nOn February 17, 2008, Blockbuster proposed a buyout of struggling Circuit City. However, after a due diligence review of Circuit City's financial books, Blockbuster withdrew its offer in July 2008. Analysts were not favorable to the proposed deal, viewing it as a desperate effort to save two struggling retailers rather than a bold turnaround initiative. Subsequently, Circuit City filed for bankruptcy on November 10, 2008 and, after liquidating all of its stores, ceased operations on March 8, 2009.\n\nAt the beginning of 2010, Blockbuster had over 6,500 stores, of which 4,000 were in the U.S., a number that had been reduced to 3,425 in late October the same year. In the United States, it planned to close between 810 and 960 retail stores and instead launch as many as 10,000 \"Blockbuster Express\" video rental kiosks by the middle of 2010. It has been claimed that more than 43 million U.S. households had Blockbuster memberships.\nOn February 10, 2010, Blockbuster announced that it would cease all its operations in Portugal, closing down 17 outlets and leaving over 100 workers unemployed. Blockbuster representatives in Portugal blamed internet piracy and the lack of government response to it as the key factors to the company's failure in the country.\n\nIn March 2010, Blockbuster began \"Additional Daily Rates\", or \"ADRs\", for rentals not returned by their due date in the United States, having already used this procedure in other countries such as the UK for many years. An ADR was charged for each day a member kept the rental beyond the rental terms. \nOn March 12, 2010, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Blockbuster's independent registered public accounting firm, issued its audit opinion disclosing substantial doubt about Blockbuster's ability to continue as a going concern. This report was included in Blockbusters's 10-K SEC filing. On March 17, 2010, Blockbuster issued a bankruptcy warning after continued drops in revenue threatened its ability to service its nearly $1 billion debt load. By April 1, 2010, Carl Icahn had resigned from Blockbuster's board of directors and sold nearly all his remaining Blockbuster stock. Blockbuster paired up with Time Warner to have Warner Bros. movies made available in Blockbuster stores on the DVD release date and not be subject to a four-week delay. Similar agreements were also made with Universal and 20th Century Fox.\n\nIn May 2010, the liquidation of Movie Gallery began, eliminating Blockbuster's primary competitor. During the same month, a dissident shareholder, Gregory S. Meyer, in an effort to be elected to Blockbuster's board of directors, engaged in a proxy battle with Blockbuster's board, alleging that the board had been responsible for significant destruction of value to shareholders. Meyer was elected to the board at Blockbuster's shareholder meeting in Dallas on June 24, 2010.\n\nOn July 1, 2010, the company was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange after its shareholders failed to pass a reverse stock split plan aimed at heading off involuntary delisting because of the stock's trading at well below $1 per share. The stock was then traded on the OTCBB (over-the-counter bulletin board).\n\nBlockbuster was unable to make a $42.4 million interest payment to bondholders and was given until August 13, 2010 to pay off the debt. The company hired Jeff Stegenga to be its chief restructuring officer (CRO) in an effort to satisfy bondholder demands and recapitalize the company. After failing to pay on August 13, bondholders gave Blockbuster until September 30, 2010.\n\nOn August 26, 2010, news media reported that Blockbuster was planning to file a pre-packaged Chapter 11 bankruptcy in mid-September. In light of this news, the company's chief financial officer (CFO), Tom Casey, resigned on September 11. He was replaced by Dennis McGill, formerly CFO of Safety-Kleen Systems, Inc. On September 23, 2010, Blockbuster filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection due to challenging losses, $900 million in debt, and strong competition from Netflix, Redbox, and video on-demand services. Movie Gallery/Hollywood Video had filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy liquidation earlier in 2010 for similar reasons.\n\nAt the time of its Chapter 11 filing, Blockbuster said it would keep its 3,300 stores open; In December 2010, Blockbuster announced it would close an additional 182 stores by the end of April 2011 in attempts to emerge from bankruptcy. It was reported in February 2011 that Blockbuster and its creditors had not come up with a Chapter 11 exit plan and that the company would be sold for $300 million or more, along with taking over debts and leases. Blockbuster has admitted that it may not be able to meet financial obligations required under its Chapter 11 filing, a circumstance which could mandate conversion of the bankruptcy filing to Chapter 7 (liquidation). On March 1, 2011, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a claim disclosing that Blockbuster did not have the funds to continue reorganizing and should liquidate.\n\nOn March 28, 2011, South Korean telecommunications company SK Telecom made a surprise bid to buy Blockbuster.\nDish Network had also expressed interest in bidding, as did Carl Icahn, despite calling Blockbuster \"the worst investment I ever made\". Dish eventually won the auction on April 6, 2011, agreeing to buy Blockbuster for $320 million and the assumption of $87 million in liabilities and other obligations. On April 19, 2011, it was announced that Dish would keep only 500 Blockbuster stores open. The acquisition was completed on April 26, 2011. In April 2011, Dish Network told the U.S. Bankruptcy Court that it needed more time to negotiate with landlords in an effort to keep more than 600 Blockbuster stores open.\n\nIn April 2011, Blockbuster's landlords objected to its assumption of leases that it sought to assign to soon-to-be-owner Dish Network Corp., claiming that they did not have adequate assurance that the new owner would honor those leases. Blockbuster signed a deal with ITV Studios Global Entertainment to launch ITV Programmes released on DVDs, Blu-rays, etc.\n\nOn May 6, 2011, Keyes resigned as Blockbuster's CEO, being replaced by Michael Kelly under the new title of president.\n\nOn August 31, 2011, the liquidators announced the closure of the remaining 253 Canadian stores and shutting of the entire Canadian unit.\nOn September 2011 it was announced that Blockbuster and Dish Network would launch a new service called Blockbuster Movie Pass that would compete with Netflix. For US$10 per month the members would have access to both a streaming service and movies and games-by-mail. But the package was only available for subscribers of Dish Network's pay-TV service, and it eventually folded.\n\nOn January 13, 2012, Dish CEO Aaron Kask announced that while Dish had planned to keep 90% of the stores in operation, meaning around 15,000 employees would remain employed, because of market factors \"there are ones that aren't going to make it. We will close unprofitable stores. We will close additional stores.\" Kask did not say when these additional closings would happen and only remarked that some stores were unprofitable. The Dish chief would not say which stores the company was planning to close, but that each potential closing was to be assessed on a \"case by case basis\".\nOn October 4, 2012, Dish Network announced that it was scrapping plans to make Blockbuster into a Netflix competitor.\nOn January 16, 2013, Blockbuster UK entered into administration and Deloitte was appointed to run the business while trying to find a buyer while some of the stores remained open. Between November 6, 2013, and January 12, 2014, all 300 remaining corporate-owned Blockbuster stores in the U.S. were closed and the DVD-by-mail program was shut down. The Blockbuster official website identified 51 franchise locations remaining in operation in the U.S. in 2014.\n\nThe company maintained its Blockbuster on Demand video streaming service along with a Blockbuster@Home television package for Dish Network subscribers until 2015, when both were replaced by DISH Movie Pack. The company's continued decline was attributed to poor leadership according to others in the industry. Ken Tisher, owner of one of the few remaining Blockbuster stores, said, \"Blockbuster, if it isn't already, is going to go into the Harvard Business Review for how not to run a business, or how to run a business into the ground.\" Keith Hoogland, owner of Family Video, said a lot of poor decisions was a primary reason the company did not survive. Dan Rayburn of StreamingMedia.com stated that \"everything about Blockbuster was set up to fail\". Jonathan Salem Baskin, a former Blockbuster marketing communications executive, said, \"Digital would have changed Blockbuster's business, for sure, but it wasn't its killer. That credit belongs to Blockbuster itself.\"\n\nAdditional store closures would also continue. By January 2018, the company's website listed nine remaining franchise-owned stores in the U.S., including six in Alaska, two in Oregon, and one in Texas. By August 2018, eight of those nine had closed, leaving only one store in Bend, Oregon.\n\nThe standard business model for video rental stores had traditionally been to pay a large flat fee per video, approximately $65, and offer unlimited rentals for the lifetime of the medium itself. Sumner Redstone, whose Viacom conglomerate then owned Blockbuster, personally pioneered a new revenue-sharing arrangement for video in the mid-1980s. Blockbuster obtained videos for little cost and kept a 60% of the rental fee, paying the other 40% to the studio, and reporting rental information through Rentrak. In addition to benefiting from a lower initial price, Blockbuster also capitalized on the fact that movies were generally not available for purchase at affordable price points during initial release periods. Thus customers had a choice to rent, wait, or buy the film on tape at the much higher manufacturer's suggested retail price targeted at other rental chains and film enthusiasts, which at that time ranged between $70–$100 per title.\n\nBlockbuster stores followed a strategy of emphasizing access to the most popular new releases, obtaining early access and stocking many copies of the new-release titles, with a relatively smaller depth of selection than traditional independent video stores. Much of the shelf space in the stores was devoted to popular titles that were placed relatively sparsely on the shelves with the entire front cover visible, so customers could browse casually and quickly, rather than having a more diverse selection with fewer copies of each title. In contrast, independent video rental shops typically tended to stock a broad selection of older titles that were placed densely on shelves with only the spines visible as in a traditional book library. Blockbuster sometimes contracted with studios to obtain earlier access to new titles than other companies could achieve. Examples of such contracts were those in which Blockbuster became the exclusive rental chain for new releases from the WWE, Paramount, DreamWorks, Universal Studios, The Weinstein Company, Miramax, Lionsgate, Disney, 20th Century Fox, MGM, Sony, Image Entertainment, Warner Bros., New Line Cinema and Allumination FilmWorks. As one commentator complained, \"Blockbuster was once an unstoppable giant whose franchises swept across the country putting mom and pop video stores out of business left and right by offering a larger selection of new releases, pricing them at a lower point due to the volume they worked in... Gone were the fragmented, independently owned shops that were often unorganized treasure troves of VHS discoveries. In their place were walls of new releases: hundreds of copies of a small handful of films. Everyone watching the same thing, everyone developing the same limited set of expectations... They put focus entirely on what was new rather than on discovering film history ...\"\n\nWhen a title was no longer a new release, each store would retain a few copies of it and typically sell off the rest as \"previously viewed\" for discounted prices. Older movies would be re-categorized as \"Blockbuster Favorite\" titles and placed in a different area of the store. \nMost Blockbuster locations also accepted trade-ins of used movies, TV shows, and games.\n\nSince Blockbuster's founding in 1985, the chain refused to stock adult films in order to portray the brand as family-friendly. However, the company did carry R-rated and unrated films.\n\nBlockbuster Entertainment Inc. ran an awards show annually from 1995 to 2001 called the \"Blockbuster Entertainment Awards\". In November 2001, Blockbuster announced that it would cancel the 2002 award show following concerns about viewership and celebrity attendance after the September 11 attacks.\n\nBlockbuster Express was a movie-rental kiosk brand sublicensed for use by licensee NCR Corporation. In 2011, nearly 10,000 Blockbuster Express kiosks were in operation. Apart from the license to use the Blockbuster brand name, Blockbuster Express kiosks are unrelated to Blockbuster LLC, its stores, its DVD-by-mail service, or its online streaming service.\n\nThe names \"Blockbuster Express\" and \"Blockbuster Video Express\" had also been used for certain Blockbuster retail stores in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the summer of 2003, Blockbuster started converting some stores to GameRush stores. These stores sold and bought DVDs, games, game consoles, and accessories. GameRush was positioned as a direct competitor to stores such as GameStop and Game Crazy. Blockbuster used its location status to get instant coverage; it also promoted these stores by hosting video-game tournaments, special trade-in offers, and a more \"hip\" look to the selection and staff. However, when Blockbuster introduced the discontinuation of late fees, GameRush was put on the chopping block. In April 2007, GameRush stores were reduced back to just a games section.\n\nBlockbuster invested in the indoor kids play restaurant Discovery Zone. In 1995, Blockbuster bought more stock to take control of the company. The Discovery Zone chain closed in 1999.\n\nIn Australia, the first Blockbuster store was opened in 1991 in Melbourne. In 1992, the Virgin Group and Blockbuster Inc entered into a joint venture to set up Australia's first Virgin Megastores in Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide. This lasted until Virgin sold its interest in the six stores to Blockbuster, which promptly rebranded them in 1993 as Blockbuster Music. In 1994 Australian store numbers rose to 54 with the acquisition of Major Video and Focus chains in both Victoria and South Australia. In 1995, the growth continued with the opening of the 100th video store in the country. By the end of 1998, Blockbuster Australia opened over 125 stores. In July 1998, Blockbuster Australia launched into franchising with the conversion of the former Video Flicks franchise group in Queensland, and the former Movieland group in Western Australia six months later. Also in 1998, the company sold its last two Australian Blockbuster Music stores in Pitt Street, Sydney, and Chapel Street, Melbourne to Brazin Limited, which incorporated them under its Sanity Entertainment brand. Throughout 1999 and 2000, Blockbuster Australia quickly expanded its franchise store network through the conversion of smaller groups and the granting of individual franchises. Before 2005, this was done through the acquisition of the Movies Plus Group and the conversion of some individual Movies 4U and Movieland outlets.\n\nIn February 2007, Blockbuster sold its entire Australian store network to Video Ezy Australasia Pty Ltd. At the time, Blockbuster Australia comprised 370 outlets nationwide – 29 owned by the company and 341 owned by franchisees. Video Ezy had 518 Australian outlets, all of them being owned by franchisees, pushing the combined group's market share to 40% of the country's video rental sector. Video Ezy committed to the master franchise agreement with Blockbuster for 10 years operating the brand with the possibility of renewal for a further 10 years after that. As a consequence of the deal, the company changed its name from Video Ezy Australasia Pty Ltd to Franchise Entertainment Group (FEG).\n\nIn October 2010, FEG transferred control of the Video Ezy Australia and Blockbuster Australia online businesses to its newly acquired and reorganized company, Élan Media Partners, leaving FEG to manage the franchise relationships with individual Video Ezy/Blockbuster outlets. However, since the two brands came together, the network has shrunk, reflected in Video Ezy/Blockbuster franchises closing 270 stores across Australia in the four years to August 2011.\n\nAs of 2017, there were only 12 outlets, in addition to about 70 automated booths, left in Australia. 2017 saw the closure of at least four stores between New South Wales, Canberra,\nVictoria and Queensland. In January 2018, another store announced it would close. There was at least one other store in Springwood, Queensland, now also closed. Five stores remained in Australia in August 2018. The last Blockbuster store in Victoria, located in Greensborough, closed in October 2018. A store in Morley is the last store open in Western Australia. Some stores remain open in New South Wales.\n\nThe chain also operated for many years in New Zealand, but all stores there have closed.\n\nBlockbuster was the largest video rental chain in the country, but finances were not good enough due to high rental prices. Lojas Americanas, the largest Brazilian department store, acquired half of the shares and now it is named under \"Americanas Express Blockbuster\". The store layout was similar to a regular American store with a Game Rush, but instead of games it offers electronics goods like computers and DVD players, groceries like candies and microwave popcorn, and even toys from Mattel and Hasbro's board games. In January 2007, when Blockbuster had 127 stores across Brazil, it sold its Brazilian stake for $87.4 million and gave Lojas Americanas exclusive rights to the Blockbuster brand in the country for 20 years. The average store has an interior on about 400 m2, where 80-100 m2 is dedicated to movies.\n\nIn Canada, Blockbuster Canada (established in 1990) had operated independently, and it initially remained financially stable. It began a partnership with Wind Mobile in December 2009, selling mobile phones at all stores in cities where Wind's service was available. Phone sales began in Toronto and Calgary, later expanding to other cities with Wind coverage. Some stores even featured a full Wind \"store-in-a-store\" for postpaid activations and a larger selection of devices. However, on May 3, 2011, it was announced that the company had gone into receivership. On May 25, 2011, it was announced that 146 stores, accounting for approximately 35% of the company's stores in Canada, would be shut down effective June 18, 2011. On August 31, 2011, Blockbuster Canada announced that no buyer could be found for its remaining stores that were acceptable to the court-appointed bankruptcy receiver, and that it would wind down operations and close all stores by December 31, 2011. The company had acted as a guarantor towards Blockbuster's remaining debt.\n\nBlockbuster came to Denmark in 1996 with the acquisition of the 29 Christianshavn video stores. In 2009 they were on its peak with 72 stores across the country. Blockbuster Video Denmark sold the rights for the Blockbuster brand to the Danish telecommunications corporation TDC in 2013, excluding the 46 remaining brick and mortar stores which continued as RecycleIT A/S, diversifying in refurbishing and reselling consumer electronics in addition sale and rental of games and movies. The original goal was to rename all the stores before 1 July 2014, when TDC would get the exclusive rights to the brand name in Denmark, but only 12 of them had been renamed at the end of June and RecycleIT A/S filed for bankruptcy the same year. The 12 RecycleIT stores were bought by the company Blue City. The new owners planned to gradually phase out game and movie sales and rental within 2016, but due to the fast changes in the market it happened almost immediately after the takeover, and seven of the stores, therefore, closed in 2015. As of 2017, the five remaining ones had started to make some profit, and focus exclusively on second-hand consumer electronics\n\nHowever, the Blockbuster On Demand service is still active in Nordic Countries, offering both unlimited streaming and 48-hour rental of films online. Several Smart TVs have the Blockbuster app pre-installed out-of-the-box, and it is available on a variety of streaming devices such as Google's Chromecast.\n\nBlockbuster opened 20 stores in Berlin and Munich and announced plans to open 250 more. The chain presented itself as family friendly by not renting pornographic films. However, that decision left a gap in the profitability of the stores. Blockbuster left the German market in 1997.\n\nIn March 2010, Blockbuster announced that it intended to sell all operations in Europe. The company once had an Irish subsidiary, Xtravision, which did not operate under the Blockbuster brand name. Blockbuster sold Xtravision at a loss in August 2009 to Birchhall Investments Limited. In early 2016 it was decided to close all of its 83 stores except for its online business and vending machines.\n\nIn the late 2000s at its peak, Blockbuster Israel had 40 branches and more than 260 automated video rentals. In December 2011, Blockbuster closed off its last branch store, and had only 80 automated video rentals left.\n\nIn March 1991, Fujita Den Trading (which was the master franchise owner of McDonald's in Japan) and Blockbuster Inc entered into a joint venture to established Japan's first Blockbuster Video stores. By October 1992, Fujita and Blockbuster opened 15 stores in the country – four of them next to McDonald's outlets and most being located in the greater Tokyo area. Unlike Blockbuster's U.S. stores, each Japanese outlet only occupied about half the floor space at 5,000 square feet due to the country's more limited available real estate. By June 1996, 32 stores were in operation with a public aim for 150 by 1998. Blockbuster Japan faced heavy competition from Osaka-based video rental chain, Tsutaya, with its 817 outlets, but the company saw opportunity in the population having high VCR ownership levels (at around 75%), low satellite TV penetration (at around 27%), and well-ordered store layouts (unique for most local video stores). However, Blockbuster's business strategy of \"wholesome home entertainment\" saw it not stock adult entertainment or extreme horror films where they account for 35% of the Japanese video market. That meant Blockbuster was unable to fit into the Japanese market adequately and was put at a disadvantage to other businesses selling and renting these movies. In 1999, Blockbuster handed its remaining shares over to Fujita Den Trading and exited the Japanese market.\n\nIn September 2015, all remaining Blockbuster retail stores (263 in total) in Mexico had been converted to \"The B Store\", and the floor space dedicated to video rentals reduced from 70% to 20%, the remaining space being used for general technology and electronics sales. The re-branding occurred with the owners not renewing their license with Blockbuster and the imminent expiry of the existing license. In 2016, it was reported that all the remaining B-stores were closed.\n\nIn December 2002 the first Blockbuster store opened in Norway, and was followed by another store some months later in 2003, both located in Oslo. The hope was to acquire an already existing video chain. When that failed, it was made an attempt to build a Norwegian blockbuster chain from scratch. But both stores closed in the spring of 2004.\n\nIn 2007, Blockbuster announced that it plans to shut down its stores in Peru due to poor revenues, which it blamed on the effect of movie piracy. The company had already closed down its stores in Ecuador, Portugal and Costa Rica. El Salvador followed in 2010, and Argentina in 2011.\n\nIn 1989, the company entered the United Kingdom via its purchase of the 875-store Ritz Video chain for $135 million, from parent company Citivision. Ritz Video was Europe's largest rental chain, with a 20% share of the United Kingdom video market, and annual sales of about $150 million. The first re-branded Blockbuster outlet opened on Walworth Road, South London, the same year. By November 1991, Blockbuster UK converted 30 stores to its brand.\n\nBlockbuster UK operated trade functions in all their stores, buying and selling pre-owned DVDs, console games, and gaming accessories. Stores offered either store credit or cash for trade-ins, and would price-match with competitors.\n\nIn early 2013, the company had 528 locations in the United Kingdom. On January 16, 2013, Blockbuster placed its United Kingdom subsidiaries in administration, putting over 4,000 jobs at risk. Non-UK stores were unaffected by the administration, and continued to trade as normal. On February 1, 2013, a large number of Blockbuster stores in the UK were closed, and the UK business was purchased out of administration by restructuring firm Gordon Brothers Europe on March 23, 2013.\n\nBlockbuster UK then traded as \"TS Operations\", with only 264 branches retained. On October 29, 2013, Blockbuster UK announced it was to go into administration for a second time. On November 14, 2013, 72 store closures were announced, with another 62 made on December 5. A week later, with no success in finding a buyer, it was announced by \"Moorfields Corporate Recovery\" that all remaining stores in the country would cease operation on December 16, 2013, with stock cleared the day before.\n\nFollowing \"Deadpool 2\"'s digital release, a pop-up retail store in the style of the original 1989 Blockbuster outlets is set to arrive to Shoreditch. The store will be giving away 1,989 copies of the film as a reference to Blockbuster's entry year into the British market. Additionally, those with an original membership card can skip the queue and get their copies of the film before others. It was set to operate on the 16th and 17th of September, 2018.\n\nIn 1997, Enron Corporation had entered the broadband market, constructing and purchasing thousands of miles of fiber optic cables throughout the United States. In 2001, Enron and Blockbuster Inc. attempted to create a 20-year deal to stream movies on demand over Enron's fiber optic network. However, the \"heavily promoted\" deal fell through, with Enron's shares dropping following the announcement.\n\nOn August 11, 2004, Blockbuster introduced a DVD-by-mail service in the U.S. to compete with the established market leader, Netflix.\n\nBlockbuster's U.S. online operation started with around 10 warehouses; further expansions every year brought that number to 41, plus more than 1400 stores in the Blockbuster Online network. Most Blockbuster independent franchises did not honor the Total Access program. The company had 1.5 million subscribers at the end of the third quarter of 2006. Blockbuster's move to follow the business pattern with its online rentals as was established by Netflix prompted Netflix to sue Blockbuster for patent infringement. Blockbuster counter sued with a counterclaim alleging deceptive practices with its patent which it alleged was designed to maintain an illegal monopoly. The suits were eventually settled, and while the terms were not disclosed it was later reported that Netflix recorded a settlement payment from Blockbuster of $4.1 million in the second quarter of 2007.\n\nBlockbuster offered several online movie rental plans. In some cities customers could add games to their movie rental queue as if they were included in their plan, but game rentals resulted in a separate additional fee which was not displayed or charged until the end of the billing cycle. Until July 26, 2007, Blockbuster offered and advertised unlimited free in-store exchanges of online rentals with all plans. Since then there were several changes back and forth with regard to this policy; as of March 2010 customers were allowed a limited number of in-store exchanges.\n\nAt the end of 2006, Blockbuster Total Access had 2.2 million customers, exceeding their original goal of 2 million, according to its website. After an aggressive media campaign that accounted for much of Blockbuster's $46.4 million net loss in the first quarter of 2007, the Total Access subscriber base surpassed 3 million customers in total, marking the company's highest subscriber growth quarter ever. By 2009, however, the company was declining to provide figures when asked by \"The Wall Street Journal\".\n\nOn January 5, 2007, Southern Stores Inc., one of Blockbuster's largest franchise operators in the United States, filed a lawsuit in federal court alleging that, by introducing Blockbuster Online and Blockbuster Total Access, the rental chain has undercut the group's franchise agreement.\n\nOn August 6, 2010, Blockbuster By Mail subscribers gained access to Blockbuster's library of console games, in addition to movies and television shows.\n\nOn March 31, 2012, Blockbuster On Demand removed support from set-top box media players, including Vudu, WDTV, and Roku. Supported devices now only include computers, Blu-ray players, select television sets, and cellular phones.\n\nOn February 26, 2013, Roku, Inc. announced that Blockbuster On Demand was being launched on Roku's channel store. Supported devices now include computers, Blu-ray players, select television sets, cellular phones, and the Roku set-top box.\n\nIn November 2013, Dish Network said its DVD-by-mail service would shut down by mid-December.\n\nAs of 2015, Blockbuster on Demand is part of Dish Network's Sling TV product and no longer exists as a standalone service.\n\nRentals cost £3.50 to £4.50 and lasted for five nights, usually from Monday to Friday due to the postal service. Late fees of £0.70 to £0.90 per disc applied if a disc was not returned on time.\n\nIn May 2004, Blockbuster also introduced a conventional online subscription service. The unlimited three-disc plan costs £14.99/month but does not allow in-store exchange, contrary to the U.S. service. Partial support for in-store exchange would not be added until April 2005 with the launch of an \"OnlineXtra\" service. This service cost £2 per month, required an online subscription to a disc plan, and added two extra discs sent by mail. The OnlineXtra discs could be exchanged in store, but the non-OnlineXtra discs could not. The program was discontinued in 2006 with no grandfathering, but an in-store-only variant of it resurfaced in early 2008. A \"Click & Collect\" service launched in September 2010 allows the reservation of Blockbuster movies in store, but the store's regular rental fees applied until the company added in-store exchanged in May 2012. Support for game reservations was added in November 2011.\n\nIn 2008, Blockbuster UK's website underwent an overhaul, with an online store; a retail store stock checker; improved search functionality; and a critically acclaimed layout. In-store pickup and exclusive titled were added in 2009. Some of the titles which had an exclusivity period at Blockbuster include Gran Torino, Changeling, Taken, and Knowing. Additionally, online rental downloads of Universal Pictures in the United Kingdom remains exclusive to Blockbuster. This provides an advantage to the rental company compared to its competitors HMV, Play, and LoveFilm.\n\nIn January 2010, Blockbuster UK launched an online blog. Improved search algorithms, product pages, and social network links were added to the site in April 2010. Blockbuster UK aired a monthly \"BB Insider\" online video show from May 2010 to January 2011 and launched an iPhone App in September 2010. Throughout the year 2011, Blockbuster UK announced several price cuts along with a new Blockbuster loyalty card program.\n\nThese price drops were followed by a price drop of the Blockbuster UK online pay per rent service. Although some Blockbuster UK advertisements claim that the company no longer charges late fees, the fine print and/or voiceover clarifies that rentals will be charged an extra pound for every additional night. A \"Top Ticket\" feature was added in April 2011, allowing monthly subscription customers to rent an additional movie at no extra charge and to receive it before other movies they request. Support for online sales of used movie and game discs was added in July 2011. The Blockbuster UK website was enhanced in September 2011. During the following month, a new TV section was added to the website.\n\n3D Blu-rays were added to Blockbuster UK in February 2012. In May 2012, Blockbuster UK partnered with IGN to launch a new Blockbuster VIP Gamer loyalty program.\n\nOn January 16, 2013, Blockbuster UK entered administration, appointing Deloitte as company administrators, casting doubt over the future of their 528 stores in the country. An announcement was then made by Deloitte that 160 UK stores would close.\n\nOn February 13, 2013 Deloitte announced a further 164 stores closures, leaving 204 stores trading in the UK. The business was sold to restructuring firm the Gordon Brothers Group on March 23, 2013. On October 29, 2013, Gordon Brothers filed notice of intention to appoint an administrator. On November 28, 2013, Blockbuster UK officially entered administration for the second time, and by December 2013, all stores were closed, as no buyer for the chain was found.\n\nIn January 2006, Blockbuster Brazil also introduced an online rental service now featuring both DVD and Blu-ray plans. There were four Block plans available with prices ranging from R$34.90 to R$79.90. The 3-disc plan with unlimited exchanges was R$49.90/month. Unlike the U.S. service, there was no in-store disk exchange.\n\nOn August 8, 2007, Blockbuster announced that it reached an agreement to purchase Movielink. According to the 8-K filing by Blockbuster, the total purchase price was $6.6 million.\n\nIn 2000, Reed Hastings, the founder of Netflix, approached Blockbuster with an offer to sell his company to Blockbuster for US$50 million. John Antioco, the Blockbuster CEO, was not interested in the offer because he thought it was a \"very small niche business\" and it was losing money at the time.\n\nOne of Blockbuster's most well known advertising campaigns was launched during the 2002 Super Bowl. It starred the voices of Jim Belushi and James Woods, as a rabbit and a guinea pig in a pet shop, located across the road from a Blockbuster store. The first campaign ended in 2003. The Carl and Ray campaign started again in 2007 starting with a commercial in the first quarter of Super Bowl XLI.\n\nIn 2005, Blockbuster launched a marketing campaign describing changes in its late fees policy and offering \"No Late Fees\" on rentals. The program sparked investigations and charges of misrepresentation in 48 states and the District of Columbia, as state attorneys general including Bill Lockyer of California, Greg Abbott of Texas, and Eliot Spitzer of New York argued that customers were being automatically charged the full purchase price of late rentals and a restocking fee for rentals returned after 30 days. In a settlement, Blockbuster agreed to reimburse the states the cost of their investigation, clarify communication to customers on the terms of the program, and offer reimbursement to customers charged fees prior to the clarification. New Jersey filed a separate lawsuit and was not a party to the settlement.\n\nThe 2005 controversy came after a related lawsuit settled in 2002 in Texas. That lawsuit, alleging exorbitant late fees, led the company to pay $9.25 million in attorney fees and offer $450 million in late fee refund coupons (which were rent-one get-one-free coupons, and thus required the customer to make an initial expenditure). The company estimated that the coupons would ultimately cost about $45 million depending on the redemption rate; an attorney for the plaintiffs estimated the final cost at closer to $100 million at a redemption rate of about 20% (calculated based on a similar case in Michigan).\n\nSuch corrections were also sent to international stores such as those in Canada to prevent further lawsuits.\n\nBlockbuster reintroduced late fees in the United States in 2010 under the name of \"Additional Daily Rates\". With this pricing scheme, rentals were once again limited to a certain number of days and accrued pay-per-day rates after the days allocated are exceeded.\n\n"}
{"id": "36867108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36867108", "title": "Born Free (music video)", "text": "Born Free (music video)\n\nThe music video for English recording artist M.I.A.'s \"Born Free\" was directed by Romain Gavras. The video, which depicts a genocide against red haired people, was filmed in California and directed by Romain Gavras as a nine-minute short film without the prior knowledge of M.I.A.'s record labels. Several incidents relating to the extra-judicial killing of Tamil males by the Sri Lankan Army filmed on mobile phones in Sri Lanka, some of which had been broadcast by news outlets worldwide, inspired M.I.A.'s treatment for the film-video. The video's portrayal of military force, violence and brutality met with a positive critical reception but much controversy worldwide, including a ban from YouTube in the US and UK. Some critics hailed its representation of oppression and political turmoil, while others criticized the more explicit material. The way the film was shot and the themes it covered drew comparisons to previous works by the artist, and other writer-directors' films such as \"The Hurt Locker\" and \"Punishment Park\". It earned a nomination for \"Best Dance Video\" at the 2010 UK Music Video Awards.\n\nThe music video-short film, filmed in Los Angeles and Lancaster, California on 15 January 2010 was written by M.I.A. and directed by French director Romain Gavras. Gavras, who directed the video for the song \"Stress\" by Justice which proved controversial after release dealt with themes of \"real and fake\" which complimented M.I.A.'s vision for the video. M.I.A. intended for the video to depict something real \"made not real\" to reach a wider audience. The video would depict the footage of the extra-judicial killing of Tamil males she had uploaded three months prior onto her Twitter feed. Red haired men were used in the video following teasing of \"Maya\" collaborator Rusko in the studio during the album's recording. The songwriter stated it was one of those \"ideas where people would beat the shit out of me because I was ginger [a natural redhead]. It has a whole double meaning. The gingers are kind of anyone who’s been oppressed...I didn't think she'd actually do it.\" Other roles in the video are played by veterans from the U.S. Army returning from wars in Afghanistan and Iraq; the video also features fake blood and ketchup imported from China. Gavras went on to direct the film \"Our Day Will Come\", a continuation of the ginger-genocide theme of the video-short.\n\nThe film is over nine minutes long and depicts a SWAT team driving up to a building and staging a raid, during which they ignore a man sitting in a room smoking a crack pipe, beat a couple engaged in coitus, and then force a young red-haired man violently into a detainee transport vehicle. Other red-heads are rounded up. Some of the SWAT team members wear American flags on their uniforms. During the video, a mural is seen depicting armed red-headed men and the slogan \"Our day will come\", the historic motto of the Irish Republican Army (\"Tiocfaidh ár lá\"). Keffiya-wearing red-haired young people throw rocks and glass bottles at the armored vehicles transporting the detainees, in an apparent reference to the iconic images of the Second Palestinian \"Intifada\". The detainees are then driven out to the desert, treated brutally, and forced to run across a live minefield. During the course of events, a young red-headed boy is shot through the head, and another is blown to pieces after stepping on a live mine while the soldiers continue to chase, beat, and shoot the captives.\nThe \"Born Free\" film includes graphic violence and language, as well as nudity. Ian Hamrick, the 12-year-old red-haired actor whose character is shot in the head in the film, described the video as \"showing violence to end violence.\" He felt a potency in the video absent from far more graphic video game media such as \"Call of Duty\" or \"Grand Theft Auto\". Giving more details on his role in an interview to the \"Los Angeles Times\", Hamrick said M.I.A. complimented his work on set, stating \"She wanted to make sure I was OK, that I knew what was happening and why she killed [my character]. I said I did, that she really accomplished her goal of getting people to talk about something they don’t usually see.\"\n\nOn 26 April 2010, the music video was released online and was immediately noted as political allegory, drawing parallels to genocides and many indigenous resistance movements around the world. Its content elicited strong, widespread discussion across the world. Real life parallels were drawn with the issue of immigration in the American state of Arizona, the treatment of prisoners by U.S. troops at the Abu Ghraib prison in Baghdad, and, more universally, the brutal tactics used against minorities by government forces around the world.\n\n\"The Huffington Post\" stated \"Whether it's a comment on the absurdity of genocide (of which M.I.A. saw plenty during her early childhood in Sri Lanka) or a challenge to the idea of \"other\" in Arizona's immigration law, it is startling even in the context of recent genre-bending music art-films.\" Zach Baron, writing in \"The Village Voice\" added \"NSFW isn't exactly the word. More like art film? We can think of no goofier political allegory than the persecution, abuse, and murder of redheads, but then again, M.I.A.'s politics have never been of the kind you read about in the \"New York Times\".\" James Montgomery of \"MTV\" described it as \"unflinchingly, unapologetically real\" depicting \"the kind of things that most nations — including the U.S., which is portrayed as the aggressor in the clip — often pretend don't happen: the rounding-up of ethnic minorities, the trampling of personal liberties, the bullying of the powerless by those with authority.\" Ann Powers wrote in the \"Los Angeles Times\" that the video \"concentrated fully\" on the physical horror of gun butts and bullets hitting flesh, with the scenes giving added poignancy to the lyrical themes of the song. Interpreted as a comment on desensitised attitudes towards violence, others found that the video stressed that genocide still exists and violent repression remains commonplace. Some critics described the film as \"sensationalist\". Neda Ulaby of NPR described the video as intended for \"shock value\" in the service of nudging people into considering real issues that can be hard to talk about. Haddow wrote further in \"The Guardian\" that particularly notable about the video was its use of red headed individuals as a proxy for anyone who has felt the brunt of a jackboot. The effect of this was that the viewer was \"expected to empathise with the victim, rather than the aggressor.\" Haddow stated that this sat in \"stark contrast\" to the bulk of recent films on the subject of the Afghan and Iraq wars such as Katheryn Bigelow's \"The Hurt Locker\" (2009), Oren Moverman's \"The Messenger\" (2009) and \"Green Zone\" (2010) written by Brian Helgeland and directed by Paul Greengrass, where focus was almost entirely on the psychological experiences of military personnel, continuing \"Rarely do we ever catch a glimpse of the locals, whom we are supposed to be helping, unless they are being blown up or used as plot devices to heighten the suspense.\" Other critics also pointed to differences between \"Born Free\" and Bigelow's \"The Hurt Locker\" but similarities between the video and Peter Watkins' \"Punishment Park\" (1971).\n\n\"Salon\" described \"Born Free\" as the most violent music video made in a long time and called it a nine-minute masterpiece, adding that \"M.I.A. has built a career on making music that's as outspoken as it is danceable\" and described the video as \"undeniably powerful, a lurid parable on the systematic ethnic cleansing that goes on all over the world.\" Eric Henderson in \"Slant\" stated \"what stuck with me is the furious dignity it accords the main tracksuit-wearing prisoner, and the amount of anger it allows him to deliver...I recognized within him and the band of rock-throwing dissidents that pelt the armored bus a sense of kinship relevant to anyone who occupies a minority class.\" While he felt that \"the clip is but a metaphor, and not entirely successfully so, when the pitbull-faced, tenement-snatched redhead boy is slammed against an iron fence and still dares to glare into the eyes of his attackers, I want to be right there by his side fucking their shit up.\"\n\nRT America (a Russian television network) producer Lucy Kafanov noted how several mainstream American TV news networks hesitated in covering the reaction to the video initially despite the widespread response. She said this was in contrast to their coverage of the controversy of Erykah Badu's \"Window Seat\" video two weeks prior, and suggested this was because the video for \"Born Free\" \"hit too close to home\" in the United States. \"Billboard\" writer Monica Herrera stated that anyone who was \"up in arms\" over Badu's video would probably feel \"ridiculous\" after watching the video for \"Born Free\". Journalist Alyona Minkovski of \"The Alyona Show\" noted how M.I.A.'s own experiences with genocide in Sri Lanka contributed to the themes in the video but that the silence of the artist left audience members to speculate on several connections between the video and real events. Iraqi rapper Narcy, Palestinian hip hop group DAM and singer Sabreena Da Witch told MTV Iggy that they saw the video as a \"grander metaphor for society\" and persecution in areas of political turmoil.\n\nThe British network Sky News reported that Sherry Adhami, spokeswoman for the UK Beatbullying charity found the video \"inappropriate\" as it could \"lead to more abuse against red-haired people.\" Caroline Sullivan of \"The Guardian\" told the network \"I think M.I.A. is making the point that if we segregated all ginger people as a minority - in the same way as black and Asian people - there would be an enormous outcry, and that we don't seem to get the same reaction when black people are treated in this way.\" She also stated that M.I.A. depicted violence in order to make a political point, in a way different from gangsta rap. Hamrick was to be prominently featured in the video for \"Waka Waka (This Time for Africa)\" by Shakira and Freshlyground, the official 2010 FIFA World Cup anthem but his appearance was allegedly recut to a crowd scene following the \"Born Free\" video release. \"Waka Waka\"'s producers responded that Hamrick was always meant to be an extra in the video and that this was not due to the controversy. Hamrick said of \"Born Free\" that he was really \"proud to be a part of M.I.A.’s shout-out to the world\" because \"it was a great chance to tell everyone that bully’s [sic] suck no matter what country you are from.\"\n\nGavras was more reassured that audiences talked about the subject by themselves, than explaining the video himself as the debate over the video heightened, although he questioned \"How can you be shocked by the M.I.A. video and not shocked when Israel bombs Gaza for days and days...Really crazy stuff where people actually die, real things.\" Vincent Cassel, star of Gavras' film \"Our Day Will Come\", stated he found the video \"scary, shocking and totally crazy\" on the first viewing, and added \"If it would have been with any kind of community it would have been terrible, but suddenly it's redheads, so it's like a symbol of a quest that doesn't really exist.\" Thus the video also seemed \"strange and funny\" to him.\n\nM.I.A. stated in an interview to MTV News that she found the reaction to the film \"fascinating\" but that she was baffled by the media's fixation on the clip when real issues were ignored, stating \"I think it's interesting how we react to fiction and how we react to realism on the internet... this is mainstream media, I wish I was talking about way more underground theories, but [I'm] not, this is just me digesting what I see in the mainstream.\" She joked to NME that she found the new Justin Bieber video \"more of an assault to my eyes and senses than what I've made\". A few weeks later, in an interview with Angie Martinez of Hot 97 radio station in New York City, she said \"I said I love Justin Bieber and everyone like went crazy. It's weird. No I said that I found his video offensive, because people said they found my video offensive [...] It got out of hand, Now I feel really bad coz I have some family members who love Justin Bieber, and now they won't talk to me, I need my little cousins to talk to me!\"\n\nA week after its release on Vimeo on 26 April, the video was viewed 1.8 million times on the site. From 27 April to 2 May, M.I.A. remained the most blogged about artist on the internet, according to MP3 blog aggregator The Hype Machine. The video was then re-posted on YouTube by VEVO, without users having to sign in to prove they were 18 or older. The raw video is also on M.I.A.'s website. The video has been viewed over 30 million times on the internet.\n\nVideo sharing website YouTube removed the film from viewing in the United States within a day of its posting. Some other uploads of the video were subsequently age-gated on the site, while others were removed due to copyright claims. YouTube stated that they did not comment on individual clips on the site but said that videos were removed only after users reported videos that could \"contravene guidelines.\" Commentators proposed different reasons for the actions, from the graphic \"excessive\" violence depicted to political censorship. On 27 April, the BBC reported that the video was being removed in some instances by YouTube, and labelled with an age-restriction in others. Neither M.I.A. or her record label XL Recordings commented on the development in the weeks following the release. Lisa Respers France wrote in CNN that the YouTube block may have worked in M.I.A.'s favor as it brought more publicity. M.I.A. tweeted she initially suspected her US parent label Universal Music Group to be responsible but confirmed it was not soon after. The singer-rapper stated that she found YouTube's action on the video \"ridiculous\", citing YouTube's streaming of real-life killings. Miranda Sawyer of \"The Observer\" noted that although the metaphor in the video was obvious, the illustration was graphic and \"some might say gratuitous\". M.I.A. told Sawyer \"It's just fake blood and ketchup and people are more offended by that more than the execution videos\" referring to the clips of Sri Lankan troops shooting unarmed, blindfolded, naked men in the head that she tweeted beforehand, later telling French music magazine \"Mondomix\" \"It’s amazing to me that is the state we're in today – people are more moved by something synthetic than something real. And as an artist that’s the decision you have to make – whether to be real or synthetic.\" Similarly, Erin Thomson of \"Seattle Weekly\" concurred that the violence in the video was not gratuitous, noting that as an artist, M.I.A. \"never pretended to be anything less than radical; she's never shied away from shock value. She comes from a world where persecution and terrorism are the norm, and from day one that's been the world she's tried to portray through her music.\"\n\nXinhua, the official news agency of the Chinese government and \"Global Times\", a paper owned by the Communist Party of China noted the removal of the film on American YouTube within a week of Born Free's release. M.I.A. condemned the Chinese Government's role in supporting and supplying arms to the Sri Lankan government during Eelam War IV, stating that China's influence within the UN was preventing prosecutions of war crimes committed during the conflict. The coverage of the video in China was noted by Jemima Kiss of \"The Guardian\" to bring her work to the attention of more fans in the country; M.I.A. herself stated after the release she considered her child learn the Chinese language given the economic rise of the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41959252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41959252", "title": "Brad Byers", "text": "Brad Byers\n\nBrad Byers (born October 8, 1959) is an American entertainer known for his extreme performances, including sword swallowing, lying on beds of nails and inserting various tools into his nasal cavity. For the latter he is also referred to as a “Human toolbox”. He holds several World Records. His brother Rod assists him in some performances.\n\nBrad Byers was born and raised in Moscow, Idaho. According to the biography given on the official site, he joined a traveling circus to become a juggler shortly after graduating from high school. Two years later he left the circus focusing on TV performances. He began swallowing swords at the age of 21. Throughout his career he performed in more than 20 countries. He is listed in the 1999, 2000 and 2003 editions of the \"Guinness Book of Records\". He also took part in fourth and eighth seasons of the NBC's \"America's Got Talent\" TV-show (2009, 2013).\n\nHe earned a Guinness World Record for \"The Most Swords Swallowed and Twisted at One Time\" by swallowing ten 27-inch swords one at a time until all 10 were in his esophagus and then twisting all 10 swords 180 degrees in his throat before withdrawing them and taking a bow. He is also among the few people in the World able to swallow a curved sword.\n\n“Human toolbox” is a moniker given to him by the \"Guinness World Records\" for his activities involving inserting various tools in his nasal cavity. He hammers in a nail or an awl and hangs a weight on it. Seen through the X-ray, the nail stops in several millimeters from his brain. He puts in a fishing hook into his nasal cavity so that it shows up out of his mouth. He also puts in a drill when it is being turned on. As it reaches maximum safe depth, he turns the drill off and on again when getting it out.\n\nHe laid on a bed of nails when his brother runs over him driving a quad bike.\n"}
{"id": "19960706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19960706", "title": "CanalSat Calédonie", "text": "CanalSat Calédonie\n\nCanalSat Calédonie, originally called Canal Satellite Nouvelle-Calédonie, is a satellite provider based in the Overseas French Department of New Caledonia, It was launched in 1999 to distribute satellite television to the region. It offered 48 Channels and 4 radio Stations. It broadcasts using the Intelsat 701 Satellite at 180 degrees East.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26466174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26466174", "title": "Chastity House", "text": "Chastity House\n\nA Chastity House (or \"Morality House\") is a proposed but not ratified facility in Iran where couples can interact with each other to perform Nikah mut‘ah.\n\nIn 2002, the main reason for reinstatement of Chastity Houses given to public was to prevent prostitution from spreading in the cities.\n\nSeveral prominent conservative clerics have proposed that prostitutes be placed in government-run shelters for destitute women to be called \"Chastity Houses,\" where male customers could briefly marry them under the Shia practice of Nikah mut‘ah. Proponents of the idea argue that it would \"eradicate social corruption\" by legitimizing sexual relations between the men and women.\n\nA supporter of the plan, Ayatollah Mohammed Mousavi Bojnurdi, said: \"We face a real challenge with all these women on the street. Our society is in an emergency situation.” Hojatolislam Mohammed Taghi Fazel-Meibodi, a member of Qom Seminary, said the proposal is religiously legal. He said, \"Our young people are troubled. There is poverty, unemployment, and more and more girls are escaping from their homes. In a society where there are sharp differences between rich and poor, rich men will use these poor girls for a quick thrill and to satisfy their impulses and lust.\"\n\nWomen's groups have been particularly outspoken about the idea of Chastity Houses. Shahrbanou Amani, a female Iranian parliamentarian, called the idea of establishing Chastity House as \"an insult and disrespectful to women.\" The Cultural Council for Women, a liberal Islamist women's group, said such houses would be a \"deceitful and thinly disguised\" form of prostitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "47653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47653", "title": "Chess clock", "text": "Chess clock\n\nA chess clock consists of two adjacent clocks with buttons to stop one clock while starting the other, so that the two clocks never run simultaneously. Chess clocks are used in chess and other two-player games where the players move in turn. The purpose is to keep track of the total time each player takes for their own moves, and ensure that neither player overly delays the game.\n\nChess clocks were first used extensively in tournament chess, and are often called game clocks. The first time that game clocks were used in a chess tournament was in the London 1883 tournament. Their use has since spread to tournament Scrabble, shogi, go, and nearly every competitive two-player board game, as well as other types of games. \nIn a tournament, the arbiter typically places all clocks in the same orientation, so that they can easily assess games that need attention at later stages.\n\nThe simplest time control is \"sudden death\", in which players must make a predetermined number of moves in a certain amount of time or forfeit the game immediately.\nA particularly popular variant in informal play is blitz chess, in which each player is given a short time (e.g. five minutes) on the clock in which to play the entire game.\n\nThe players may take more or less time over any individual move. The opening moves in chess are often played quickly due to their familiarity, which leaves the players more time to consider more complex and unfamiliar positions later. It is not unusual in slow chess games for a player to leave the table, but the clock of the absent player continues to run if it is their turn, or starts to run if their opponent makes a move.\n\nAnalog clocks are equipped with a \"flag\" that falls to indicate the exact moment the player's time has expired. Analog clocks use mechanical buttons. Pressing the button on one player's side physically stops the movement of that player's clock and releases the hold on the opponent's.\n\nThe drawbacks of the mechanical clocks include accuracy and matching of the two clocks, and matching of the indicators (flags) of time expiration. Additional time cannot easily be added for more complex time controls, especially those that call for an increment or delay on every move, such as some forms of byoyomi. However, a malfunctioning analog clock is a less serious event than a malfunctioning digital clock.\n\nIn 1973, to address the issues with analog clocks, Bruce Cheney, a Cornell University Electrical Engineering student and chess player, created the first digital chess clock as a project for an undergraduate EE course. Typical of most inventions, it was crude compared to the products on the market many years later and was limited by the technology that existed at the time. For example, the display was done with red LEDs. LEDs require significant power, and as a result, the clock had to be plugged into a wall outlet. The high cost of LEDs at the time meant that only one set of digits could be displayed, that of the player whose turn it was to move. This meant that each player's time had to be multiplexed to the display when their time was running. In 1973, LSI chips were not readily or cheaply available, so all the multiplexing and logic were done using chips that consisted of four two-input TTL NAND gates, which resulted in excessive power consumption. Being plugged into the wall is obviously a major drawback, but had one advantage: the timebase for the clock was driven off of a rectified version of 60 cycle AC current. Each player had a separate counter, and, in a parallel to the original mechanical architecture, one player's counter was disabled while the other's was running. The clock only had one mode: time ran forward. It could be reset, but not set. It did not count the number of moves. But it successfully addressed the original goals of the project (accurate and matched timing).\n\nThe first commercially available digital chess clock was patented in 1975 by Joseph Meshi and Jeffrey R. Ponsor and sold as the Micromate-80. Three years later a much-improved Micromate-180 was produced alongside Meshi's MBA Thesis, \"Demand Analysis for a New Product (The Digital Chess Clock)\", at San Diego State University, while Meshi and Ponsor continued to develop digital gaming.\n\nDigital clocks and Internet gaming have spurred a wave of experimentation with more varied and complex time controls than the traditional standards. Time control is commonly used in modern chess in many different methodologies. One particularly notable development, which has gained quite wide acceptance in chess, was proposed by former world champion Bobby Fischer, who in 1988 filed for (awarded in 1989) for a new type of digital chess clock. Fischer's digital clock gave each player a fixed period of time at the start of the game and then added a small amount after each move. Joseph Meshi called this \"Accumulation\" as it was a main feature of his patented Micromate-180 (US Patent 4,247,925 1978). This became the linchpin of Fischer's clock patented 10 years later. In this way, the players would never be desperately short of time. \n\nThe increment time control was first used in the privately organised 1992 Fischer–Spassky match, and quickly became popular in the wider chess world, and was used in the FIDE World Chess Championship 1998. As of 2017 most top level tournaments use Fischer's system as well as an increasing number of lower level tournaments. Other aspects of Fischer's patent, such as a synthesized voice announcing how much time the players have, thus eliminating the need for them to keep looking at the clock, have not been adopted.\n\nOn March 10, 1994, a patent application was filed by inventors Frank A. Camaratta Jr. of Huntsville, Alabama, and William Goichberg of Salisbury Mills, New York, for a game timer especially suitable for playing the game of chess, which employed a \"delay\" feature. The game timer provides, among other features, a user-definable delay between the time the activation button is pressed and the time that the activated clock actually begins to count down. United States Patent 5,420,830 was issued on May 10, 1995, and subsequently assigned to the United States Chess Federation by the inventors. As with the Fischer clock, the benefit of the delay clock is to reduce the likelihood that a player with positional and/or material superiority will lose a match solely because of the expiration of time on that player's time clock. Delay is still popular in the U.S, although increment is becoming more popular in the US.\n\nThere are three main types of chess timing methods, two of which are mathematically equivalent: (1) \"Increment\" (invented by Bobby Fischer), (2) \"Bronstein delay\" (invented by David Bronstein), and (3) \"Simple delay\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13403814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13403814", "title": "Cisneros Media Distribution", "text": "Cisneros Media Distribution\n\nCisneros Media Distribution (abbreviated as CMD, formerly known as Venevision International) is an entertainment company that broadcasts Spanish content in the United States and in other locations around the globe.\n\nCMD is a Spanish-language Entertainment company with more than 30 years of experience in TV programming production and distribution, besides participating in other segments of the market. Venevision International is part of the Cisneros Group of Companies and was founded initially as the distribution company of this media holding.\n\nCMD is headed today by Peter Tinoco. The company opened doors in 1971 under the name Teverama Florida along with Radio Caracas Television as distributors of Venezuelan programming abroad. After a split from RCTV (which formed Coral Pictures) was renamed America Television Inc. and finally in 1987 the company took the name of Venevision International.\n\nAs a distributor of television programming, VVI is one of the two largest companies in Spanish language. The programming catalogue is diverse in genres, and the company is renowned for its history and management expertise of the telenovela, an original type of program from Latin America that has achieved great success in international markets.\n\nWith a presence in five continents and more than 70 countries, Venevision International’s programs have harvested successes in Latin America, Europe and the rest of the world. Venevision International’s telenovelas have been broadcast in more than 100 countries and translated into 24 languages. In this genre the company launched in 2001 the first erotic soap opera “Latin Lover\", and in 2007 produced the first soap opera exclusively for cellular phones \"Querido Profe\" (Dear Teacher). VVI presently supports exchange agreements and sales of TV programming in China and Korea, where the telenovelas have reached great popularity.\n\nFrom the year 2000 the company embarked in a strategy of diversification to strengthen its catalogue with its own productions, and to participate in the profitable Hispanic market in the United States. As a company that belongs to a mass media group, it decided to focus on the entertainment market, leveraging its relations with industry players, and its own capacity to commercially support its contents.\n\nCMD has today operating divisions in the business of music production and distribution, film distribution, TV productions and distribution, pay television, original productions and content distribution for cellular phones and Internet and product integration through Synapsys International.\n\nIn television production, the company was pioneer in independent television production in Spanish in the city of Miami and one of the main companies of this segment in the industry. Also, since 2001 VVI has co-produced with Latin American and US companies, and also with the Chinese TV company CCTV in the Spanish version of a documentary of the Yangtze River.\n\nCMD founded the first exclusive film distribution company in Spanish language in the United States launching movies in cinemas and distributing in pay-per-view, pay television, home video, the hospitality industry (hotels and tourism) and Internet. It is part of the companies that have renewed interest in the Latin American cinema in the US market.\n\nAs part of the Cisneros Group of Companies, the company has been always interested in launching TV channels (Global Television: How to Create Effective Television for the 1990s . Tony Verna. 1993. Page. 236.). Based on its film catalogue in Spanish, the company launched in 2006 its pay TV movie channel VeneMovies, a signal that programs films 24 hours a day with interviews and coverage of the main festivals of the Hispanic market of the United States.\n\nVeneMusic, Venevision International’s musical stamp, has turned into an important reference in the Latin music, with distribution agreements with the biggest labels of the music industry. Its market activities in the music industry expanded with a publishing unit that administers the rights of the artists and the musical pieces that support the television productions of the company.\n\nIn the area of cellular entertainment the company runs Latcel, a mobile content production and distribution company in the U.S. Hispanic market and VeneMobile, a division that offers contents of the Cisneros Group of Companies in the mobile markets worldwide\n\nCMD also has participated in the business of television formats with an alliance with the Spanish company Nostromo and in the production of theater plays in the city of Miami, where it even had its own theatre from 2001 until 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22048452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22048452", "title": "Convertors", "text": "Convertors\n\nThe Convertors were a line of action figures manufactured by Select in the 1980s.\n\nOften compared to the more famous Gobots and Transformers, the Convertors were a line of toys which came out at about the same time and featured robots who changed form.\n\nThe Convertors licensed some of their toy designs from Bandai just as was done for the Transformers, meaning some of the toys looked very similar. The molds for Convertors were later knocked off by other toy companies. Convertors toys were featured in a display in the 1985 J. C. Penney Christmas catalog.\n\nThe Convertors toys featured the conflict between heroic and evil factions, in this case the heroic Defendors (and their Avarian allies) and the evil Maladroids (and their Insectors allies).\n\nVarious toys were released in different size classes and price points for the Convertors line, unlike Transformers which would not do such until the release of \"\" in 1995.\n\n\n\n\n\nOne of the hotels in Walt Disney World is called Disney's Pop Century Resort, which has different buildings from different decades of the latter half of the 1900s. In the lobby are a series of shadow boxes with memorabilia from each decade. In one from the 1980s are various items including a Convertors Sunyak robot.\n"}
{"id": "56943126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56943126", "title": "Crystal Theatre (Gonzales, Texas)", "text": "Crystal Theatre (Gonzales, Texas)\n\nCrystal Theatre is a historic theater in Gonzales, Texas. It has hosted vaudeville performances, silent movies, and talkies, and later became a coffee house and dinner theater venue. It was reopened in 2009 with a focus on youth programs.\n\nThe theater opened in 1913 or 1917. With 586 seats, it was used for vaudeville, also under the name New Playhouse, and as a movie theater, then for dinner theater. It was restored in 1982 by Crystal Theatre, Inc. but was used only occasionally for a number of years before reopening in 2009 with a reduced seating capacity of 125 and a focus on youth programs. An acting program for high school students has taken place since the early 1990s and now includes \"Shakespeare ninjas\". Barbara Crozier is the theatre's president.\n\n"}
{"id": "1098726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1098726", "title": "Cyberathlete Professional League", "text": "Cyberathlete Professional League\n\nThe Cyberathlete Professional League (CPL) is a professional sports tournament organization specializing in computer and console video game competitions. It was founded by Angel Munoz on June 27, 1997 in Dallas, Texas. The CPL is considered the pioneer in professional video game tournaments, which have been held worldwide. The CPL's tournaments are open to all registrants, but due to the ESRB content rating of some video games, CPL competitions are restricted to participants age 17 or older. The CPL has distributed more than US$3 million in cash prizes.\n\nIn 2005, the CPL moved to a World Tour format. The 2005 CPL World Tour focused on the one-on-one deathmatch game \"Painkiller\", and had a total prize purse of $1  millions. The winner of the CPL Grand Finals event, Johnathan \"Fatal1ty\" Wendel, went home with the grand prize of $150,000, while Sander \"Vo0\" Kaasjager took home the MVP trophy for having the most tournament wins.\n\nIn March 2008, the CPL ceased operations, citing a \"crowded field of competing leagues\". On August 25, 2008, the CPL announced that it had signed an acquisition agreement with an investment group based in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. On August 23, 2010, the former parent company of the CPL, announced that the two-year acquisition process of the CPL was finalized, and that the sole owner of the CPL (and its subsidiaries) was now WoLong Ventures PTE of Singapore. Following this acquisition, the CPL has hosted annual competitions in China, in collaboration with the municipal government of Shenyang.\n\nThe 2006 CPL World Season was a series of electronic sports competitions organized by the CPL in the fall of 2006. It was a follow up of the 2005 CPL World Tour and was announced by the CPL on July 31, 2006.\n\nThe tour featured two games, \"Counter-Strike\" and \"Quake 3\". After a total of 7 qualifier events, the finals were held on 16–20 December 2006 at the Hyatt Regency hotel in Dallas, Texas. The championship finals had a total prize purse of $150,000 and were won by ORG: Team: fnatic (Counter-Strike) and Paul \"czm\" Nelson (Quake 3).\nAt the 2004 Cyberathlete Extreme Summer Championships, the CPL announced details on its largest event ever, the CPL World Tour. This event took place throughout 2005, with a total of 10 international stops, and a finals event held in New York City, televised by MTV.\n\n\n\nThe CPL also owned and operated an online video game league for amateur players and teams, named the Cyberathlete Amateur League or CAL. CAL operated year-round, with regular eight-week seasons, one or two matches per week, and a single-elimination postseason (playoffs).\n\nOn November 14, 2008, the newly formed CPL Holding Group, LLC from United Arab Emirates announced that it had acquired CAL. On February 22, 2009, CAL ceased online operations. At its peak CAL was one of the largest online gaming leagues in North America with 20,000 teams and over 600,000 registered players.\n\nThe CAL is based mainly on online game play. A 2003 competition hosted by CAL was played in a Hyatt Regency Ballroom. Several tables were placed together where 10 computers were set up for the professional gamers. The game was . The CAL ceased operating in 2009.\n\nIn mid-2006, the CPL together with its international partners announced a series of licensed divisions to bring worldwide the experience of the CPL events.\n\n\nOn April 2, 2010, a former CGS employee Tonya Welch, released information about an alleged \"fraud scheme\" by which the new buyers of the CPL had made fictitious statements to the general public and to the previous owner of the CPL. She claimed that the investors were not from Abu Dhabi, as had been announced, but that the purchase was actually conducted by a private group of US investors. Despite the allegations the acquisition was ultimately completed by WoLong Ventures of Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "27429476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27429476", "title": "Dangler (plot device)", "text": "Dangler (plot device)\n\nDangler is a literary term meaning a plotline that is metaphorically left to \"dangle\" or \"hang\". A \"dangler\", or \"dangling plotline\", is a plot device in fiction where a plotline is forgotten, phased out and eventually dropped, thus a resolution is never achieved. Although dangling plotlines can occur in all forms of media, they typically appear in comic books, movies and book sequels, where the original writer or creative team can be replaced.\n\nTypically, a writer will pepper the main story with smaller back-stories. It then becomes evident to the reader that these smaller back-stories have the potential to build up into a bigger story and reach a conclusion of some sort.\n\nEditorial mandate can also force a writer to drop a building plotline due to fan backlash or an editor's lack of interest to pursue such a plot.\n\nIn television, when a creative team fears that their show may not be picked up for another season, they will end the season finale with a cliffhanger in order to conjure a fan outcry and interest to continue the series. When the series is not picked up for another season, the cliffhanger creates a dangling plotline. Usually the original writer, fan of the series, or the company who produced the series, will look to another form of media to continue the story. \"Twin Peaks\" was able to resolve some dangling plotlines due to the release of the . \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" got its own comic book series appropriately named \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer Season Eight\", which was written by series creator Joss Whedon. In an extremely rare occasion, \"Futurama\" was continued six years later through direct-to-DVD films, which eventually led to the resurrection of the series in its original television format.\n\nIn comic books, it is a common practice for writers to resolve their own dangling plotlines in other comic books within the shared universe. A good example is Frank Tieri, who started a Weapon X story in Wolverine, who then later became the writer of his own Weapon X series and as the series ended abruptly, was forced to continue some of his side-stories in a miniseries called \"Weapon X: Days of Future Now\". One lingering plotline left a character in limbo from the \"Weapon X\" series until Frank Tieri took the reins of \"New Excalibur\", where he proceeded to close this character's storyline, five years later. Chris Claremont and Warren Ellis are also known for continuing their own stories throughout other books they write for. In a similar fashion, Mark Millar has continued the story of an ever-dangling character, Clyde Wyncham, all throughout his runs on \"Marvel 1985\", \"Kick-Ass\", \"Fantastic Four\" and \"Old Man Logan\".\n\nBecause of the unsatisfying nature of having a plotline dangle, fans sometimes take matters into their own hands. One famous example of this, the numerous directors and writers in the \"Halloween\" series each had different directions for their story of Michael Myers. This left many plot holes and dangling storylines after each movie. Seemingly unconnected, the movies would end with a cliffhanger and continue with absolutely no mention of the previous movie's occurrences. To remedy this mess of continuity, Chaos Comics published a comic book series to bridge the gaps between all the movies into one continuous canon.\n\n"}
{"id": "50049726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50049726", "title": "Dedication 6", "text": "Dedication 6\n\nDedication 6 is a two part mixtape by American rapper Lil Wayne, hosted by DJ Drama. The first part of the mixtape was released on December 25, 2017. A second part of the mixtape titled Dedication 6: Reloaded was released on January 26, 2018. It is the sixth installment of Lil Wayne's \"Dedication\" series, following its predecessors \"The Dedication\", \"Dedication 2\", \"Dedication 3\", \"Dedication 4\" and \"Dedication 5\". It is the sixth installment of Lil Wayne's \"Gangsta Grillz\" chronology.\n\nOn February 2, 2015, DJ Drama posts a picture of him, Lil Wayne and Mack Maine on Instagram with the caption, \"Sorry For The Wait 2. Carter V. Dedication 6\". HotNewHipHop says this indicates that \"Dedication 6\" will be released after \"Tha Carter V\". On April 4, 2016, DJ Drama invited Lil Wayne and 2 Chainz on an episode of his Shade 45 podcast \"Streetz is Watchin\" to discuss the release of the album, \"ColleGrove\". The topic of conversation eventually turned to Lil Wayne and DJ Drama's \"Dedication\" mixtape series, and specifically the whereabouts of the next installment, \"Dedication 6\".\n\nLil Wayne has teased the mixtape several times throughout 2016 and 2017. It was rumored to release some time before the end of 2017. Lil Wayne's manager Cortez Bryant hinted it may release in November 2017. Lil Wayne announced on Twitter that the mixtape would be released on Christmas Day. A few days before the mixtape's release, Lil Wayne released the audios of the tracks \"Bank Account\" and \"Blackin Out\" on his YouTube page. On December 29, 2017, Wayne announced on his Twitter a second part of Dedication 6 titled \"Dedication 6: Reloaded\" and released the audio to the track \"Family Feud\". On January 23, 2018, Wayne released the audio to the track \"Big Bad Wolf\". The following day, Wayne released \"Bloody Mary\" featuring Juelz Santana.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "23220191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23220191", "title": "Don't Look Back (video game)", "text": "Don't Look Back (video game)\n\nDon't Look Back is a platform game playable through Adobe Flash and designed by Terry Cavanagh. The game is a modern interpretation of the Orpheus and Eurydice Greek legend.\n\nThe game is a combination of two ideas; Cavanagh wished to create a \"silly shooter\" where the player's actions were \"redeemed\" after being shown from a different perspective, he also wished to create a game where the gameplay acted as a metaphor of the player's actions.\n\nCritics praised the game's addictiveness and presentation, but had different opinions over the game's high difficulty level.\n\nThe game is an interpretation of the Orpheus and Eurydice legend with stylized graphics resembling those produced by the Atari VCS game console.\n\nPlayers control a man who begins the game standing at the grave of his lover. After finding a handgun, he descends into the underworld to find the spirit of the deceased and lead her back out to safety. Players have infinite chances to repeat each of the game's screens, the screen must be replayed if the player makes contact with an enemy or hazard, and also if the player turns the man to face his lover once she has been rescued. Play consists of crossing lava pits by jumping across platforms, circumnavigating other hazards, fending off enemies such as spiders and bats, and defeating bosses. After safely leading the spirit out of the underworld, the player reaches the gravestone where the game started, to encounter the man still stood at the grave. Both the player character and the spirit disappear, leaving the other figure standing alone at the grave. The journey is a fantasy, once completed the player is confronted by the reality of the figure silently grieving.\n\n\"Don't Look Back\" is a combination of two separate ideas, one of which was what Cavanagh termed \"a silly shooter or something like that\", which would be \"redeem(ed)\" by a twist which would show the player's actions in a different light. The other idea was creating a game where the gameplay itself was \"a metaphor for something else that's happening to the player\".\n\nThe iOS port had initially been rejected by Apple due to its marketing material stating that \"There are no in-app purchases or any of that nonsense\".\n\nJournalists praised \"Don't Look Back\" overall, in particular its presentation, the gat Jim Rossignol of Rock, Paper, Shotgun described \"Don't Look Back\" as \"simplistic, but very tricky\", adding \"It’s really well done\". Indie game developer Derek Yu stated it is a moody game similar to \"Seiklus\" but \"more focused and challenging\", and that it is rewarding to play for fans of the genre. Tim Rose of IndieGames.com said the game is \"simply quite brilliant\" and \"great platforming fun that deserves to be played\".\n\nThe staff of online video game magazine \"The Escapist\" found the game addictive, \"a perfect example of doing more with less\", and stated it possesses a \"wonderfully haunting aesthetic\".\n\nIn a positive examination of \"Don't Look Back\", game designer Emily Short (writing for Gamasutra) described the game as \"not a masterpiece\", but she noted that it illustrates \"the methods by which a masterpiece will one day be written.\" She also pointed to the fact that the difficulty of the game elevated it in a way that was impossible for traditional accounts of the Orpheus myth (opera, sculpture, painting, and literature). Through the struggle the player identifies with Orpheus on a much deeper level.\n\n"}
{"id": "2225407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2225407", "title": "Extras (TV series)", "text": "Extras (TV series)\n\nExtras is a British sitcom about extras working in television, film, and theatre. The series was co-produced by the BBC and HBO and was created, written, and directed by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, both of whom also starred in it. \"Extras\" follows the lives of Andy Millman (Gervais), his platonic friend Maggie Jacobs (Ashley Jensen), and Andy's substandard agent and part-time retail employee Darren Lamb (Merchant) as Millman muddles through life as an anonymous \"background performer\" who eventually finds success as a B-level sitcom star.\n\n\"Extras\" has two series of six episodes each as well as a Christmas Special. The first episode aired in the UK on 21 July 2005 on BBC Two and on 25 September 2005 on HBO in the US. The second series premiered in the UK on BBC Two on 14 September 2006 and began airing in the US on HBO and in Australia on ABC on 14 February 2007. The Christmas Special aired on 27 December 2007 on BBC One and on 16 December 2007 on HBO. Both series are available on DVD in the UK and the US.\n\nThe series is filmed in a more traditional sitcom style than the mockumentary style used by Gervais and Merchant in their previous series \"The Office\". Each episode has at least one guest star: a television or film celebrity, who play what Gervais and Merchant have referred to as \"twisted\" versions of themselves; an exaggerated or inverted parody of their public personas.\n\nThe show has been critically acclaimed, and has a Metacritic score of 81/100.\n\n\nAndy Millman (Ricky Gervais) is an aspiring actor who can only find work as an extra which he often refers to as being a \"background artist\" as a means of making the work seem more dignified to others than he, himself, believes it to be. Andy is accompanied on his various projects by his platonic best friend and fellow extra, Maggie Jacobs (Ashley Jensen). Maggie is well-meaning but ditzy, often missing obvious social cues and failing to exhibit appropriate tact and subtlety in conversations. Unlike Andy, Maggie has no aspirations toward being anything more than an extra. Andy's agent, Darren Lamb (Stephen Merchant) is a part-time employee of mobile phone retailer, Carphone Warehouse, and has no real experience in the field of entertainment. He is incompetent, often taking no steps at all to find work for Andy, and even discouraging potential employers from hiring his client due to his flabby physique, age, and lack of acting experience. Darren is assisted by former soap opera star Shaun Williamson, who plays himself. Lamb frequently tries to undermine Andy by suggesting Williamson (who Lamb refers to by his former \"EastEnders\" character name, \"Barry\") is better suited for various acting roles that are offered to Andy.\n\nFed up with life as an extra who is always being cut out of scenes just as he manages to get his face on camera, Andy shamelessly kisses up to celebrities and producers in an effort to try to get screen time or a line of dialog. Although often successful in these endeavors, circumstances always arise that prevent Andy from advancing his career. Reasons include celebrities confessing that they have no real power to help, or (more often) Andy inadvertently offending the star which results in his immediate dismissal from the set.\n\nIn the conclusion of season one, Andy successfully delivers a sitcom script he has written to Patrick Stewart who, in turn, passes it along to the BBC through his production company. Andy gets a meeting with BBC comedy producers who greenlight his project and agree to allow him to play the starring role in the show.\n\nSeries Two largely chronicles Andy's frustrations with his sitcom--\"When the Whistle Blows\"--which is heavily rewritten by BBC producers resulting in it being a lowest-common-denominator comedy that relies on a multitude of catchphrases, offensive stereotypes, and silly costumes for cheap laughs. Although the sitcom is commercially successful, pulling six million weekly viewers, it is a flop with critics who mercilessly bash both it and Andy. Andy periodically gets a chance to expand his repertoire in film and on stage but manages to ruin every opportunity that comes his way by either refusing to take direction, or by once again offending bigger stars than himself.\n\nIn the series' 90-minute finale, the sitcom has made Andy financially successful and recognizable to many, but he is increasingly frustrated with the show's quality and with his career not moving forward. Andy is convinced to fire Darren as his agent and become a client of a larger, more professional firm which he believes will accelerate his path upward. After taping a Christmas Special for \"When the Whistle Blows\", he announces to the live studio audience that he is quitting the series effective immediately. His career falls into total stagnation and Andy is forced to take bit parts on various long-running British television series such as \"Doctor Who\" and \"Hotel Babylon\". Eventually, his agent ceases to take his calls. Andy's relationship with Maggie sours as he frequently ignores her, and spends all of the time they spend together complaining about not getting the opportunities he feels he deserves.\n\nWhen he crashes his agent's lunch meeting at a posh restaurant, he is bluntly told that he will never realize his dreams of having fame, fortune, prestige and respect. Crushed, Andy reluctantly agrees to lower his expectations for the sake of remaining modestly famous and successful, and is cast in \"Celebrity Big Brother\". While staying in the \"Celebrity Big Brother\" house, Andy openly reflects upon the price of fame and grows increasingly disenchanted with the culture of celebrity worship that has manifested itself throughout Western society.\n\nHis despondency culminates in an emotional breakdown during a conversation with the other housemates. He tearfully turns to the camera and apologizes to Maggie, who is watching the broadcast from her apartment, for ignoring her and not heeding her advice to be grateful for the things he has managed to achieve. He voluntarily departs the house, ending his tenure on the show. Moved by the unexpected outpouring of emotion, a group of journalists eagerly awaits Andy's appearance at a press conference. Andy's agent returns, and tells him that his emotional turn has instantly skyrocketed Andy's profile, and that a number of A-list stars are requesting to meet him. As his agent prepares to introduce him to the throng of waiting press, Andy quietly slips out the back door of the studio where Maggie is waiting for him in her car. They drive off together with Andy seemingly turning his back on show business and accepting a life of anonymity.\n\nThere are twelve regular episodes and a 90-minute Christmas special.\n\nWhen the first series was originally broadcast in the UK, the episode featuring Ben Stiller was broadcast first, followed by the Ross Kemp and Vinnie Jones episode the following week. When the series was repeated over the Christmas holiday 2005, the episodes were returned to their intended order, with Ross Kemp first, followed by Stiller. The first series DVD, released in the UK on 31 October 2005, also preserves this same order, along with the \"Extras\" script book.\n\nWhen the first series is shown in North America another order is used:\n\n\nThere were some subtle changes between the UK and US versions, with references to the names of British celebrities often being changed to American celebrities for the US edition.\n\nIn Season 2, episode 1, Keith Chegwin's anti-gay tirade includes the sentence \"Men have knobs, women have fannies. Pop knob in fanny. Not up the arse.\" In British English \"fanny\" is a euphemism for vagina, while in American English \"fanny\" is a term for buttocks. A scene was shot, and aired in the US, in which Chegwin says \"Men have dicks. Women have vaginas. Pop dick in vagina. Not up the bum.\"\n\nIn Season 2, episode 3, in the scene where Darren Lamb tells Andy Millman about an offer that has come in for Andy to play a supporting role in a film, Lamb mistakenly says the film stars Billie Piper. For the American broadcast, an alternate take was used where Merchant's character says, \"How do you fancy three days with Halle Berry?\" In each case, Piper and Berry's names are mistaken for the name Harry Potter (actor Daniel Radcliffe guest stars in the episode).\n\nIn Season 2, episode 4, a scene featuring UK TV presenter Moira Stuart was completely excised from the US version and a song by Coldplay frontman Chris Martin replaced it; the latter was featured as a deleted scene on the DVD releases.\n\nIn the Christmas special the talking \"Jade Goody\" doll was replaced by a talking \"Kramer\" doll. (Both dolls parodied incidents where each celebrity said things publicly that were generally seen as racist.) The T-shirt in the studio audience depicting Victoria Wood and Asda is replaced in the US version by a T-shirt depicting Sigourney Weaver and DirectTV. A scene with George Michael was also truncated to remove references to UK celebrities Richard and Judy and Catherine Tate. A scene set in the Carphone Warehouse was edited to remove jokes referring to the long running BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\".\n\n\"When the Whistle Blows\" is the show-within-a-show sitcom created, co-written by and starring Andy Millman. It was first mentioned in episode 1.3, as a script that Millman had written and given to Darren, who neglected to read it (in a recurring joke, he would frequently forget the name of the show, often calling it \"When the Wind Blows\" and even confusing it with \"The Wind in the Willows\"). The script was turned into a sitcom on BBC One in the first season finale, after Millman gave the script to Patrick Stewart. Excerpts from the sitcom are featured in the second season, and many of the \"Extras\" second season plotlines revolve around Millman's experiences on and around the show.\n\n\"When the Whistle Blows\" is set in a Wigan factory canteen. The humour is broad and lowbrow in the manner of many catchphrase-based sitcoms. The main catchphrase of the show, \"Are you 'avin' a laugh?,\" is spoken by Millman. The show is unpopular with critics but popular with the public. It does receive a BAFTA nomination, although Millman suspects it is there simply to make up the numbers, and in the end it loses to an unspecified programme by Stephen Fry.\n\nMillman is deeply unhappy with the show, feeling that too many people have interfered with his original ideas in the hunt for ratings. It appears that Millman originally set out to do a comedy similar to \"The Office\", with true-to-life characters in a realistic work environment, without a studio audience or canned laughter. After being forced to collaborate and compromise many of his ideas with producers at the BBC, the show is transformed into lowest common denominator fare with each character having his/her own catchphrase which are repeated ad nauseam to the delight of its 6 million viewers. The show is further debased by the unexplained guest appearance of Coldplay's Chris Martin, in episode 2.4, which bears no relation to the plot and which Millman openly opposes, going so far as to utter the on-camera line, \"Chris Martin, what are you doing in a factory in Wigan? It's mental!\"\n\nThe presence of studio audiences/canned laughter, and the reliance on funny wigs, costumes and catchphrases for humour is a comment on British comedy hits such as \"Little Britain\" and \"The League of Gentlemen\". Many people that Millman sees at the recording of the pilot wear T-shirts displaying comedy catchphrases, such as \"Wassup\", \"It's Chico Time\", \"I'm a lady!\", \"Am I bovvered?\" and \"Garlic bread?.\" (These shirts are not shown in the US version of \"Extras\".) Some of the reviews that the show gets refer to it as a \"time warp comedy\", and Millman's character talks about 1970s catchphrases such as Mr Humphreys' \"I'm Free\" (from \"Are You Being Served?\") and Frank Spencer's \"Ooh Betty\" (from \"Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em\"), suggesting that it is also partly sending up 1970s British comedy. In episode 2.5, Germaine Greer suggests that \"When the Whistle Blows\" is \"sub \"Carry On\"\".\n\nThe closing title track is called \"Tea for the Tillerman\", which is written and performed by Cat Stevens and is the title track of his album \"Tea for the Tillerman\". The fourth episode of the second series of the show features a cover of the song performed by Chris Martin of Coldplay.\n\nThe song in the Christmas Special highlighting Maggie's depression after she hits bottom and quits acting is \"This Woman's Work\" by Kate Bush. When Andy is having a bad time at The Ivy restaurant and leaves Maggie on her own, The Smiths' song \"Please, Please, Please, Let Me Get What I Want\" can be heard.\n\nAccording to a segment in the extras section of the Series 1 DVD, Jude Law was scheduled to appear in one of the episodes, after meeting Gervais backstage on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", but had to pull out due to film commitments. This resulted in Gervais and Merchant having to scramble to find a replacement actor at the last minute, with Leonardo DiCaprio being considered and doggedly pursued. A featurette on the first series DVD release, \"Finding Leo\", consists of late-night video camera footage (shot mostly by Merchant) chronicling Gervais' desperate but ultimately unsuccessful attempts to contact DiCaprio's representatives. Law was ultimately replaced by Patrick Stewart in the series 1 finale, although a poster for the Jude Law film \"Alfie\" appeared at the end. Other actors who did not appear in \"Extras\" despite initial reports from Gervais that they would appear include Madonna, Brad Pitt, and Tom Cruise. Keith Harris turned down a part having read the script, telling \"The Independent\" \"This isn't clever writing, it's pure filth\".\n\nOverall, \"Extras\" has been received very well by critics in the UK. The show received 3 BAFTA Award nominations in 2006 including Best Comedy Performance for Ashley Jensen, Best Writer for Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, and Best Situation Comedy. In 2007, both Gervais and Merchant were nominated, separately, for Best Comedy Performance, with Gervais ultimately winning the award.\n\nThe show has also received accolades in the US. In 2006, the show received four nominations for the 58th Primetime Emmy Awards. Ben Stiller and Patrick Stewart received nominations for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series and both lost to Leslie Jordan on \"Will & Grace\". Kate Winslet received a nomination for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series and lost to Cloris Leachman for \"Malcolm in the Middle\". Gervais and Merchant were also nominated for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for the episode with Kate Winslet. They lost to Greg Garcia for writing the pilot episode of \"My Name Is Earl\". In 2007, the show received four nominations for the 59th Primetime Emmy Awards. Gervais was nominated for and won Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series, and Ian McKellen was nominated for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series. Gervais and Merchant were also nominated for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series for Daniel Radcliffe and Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series for Orlando Bloom. \"Extras\" made the Top 10 list of Outstanding Comedy Series but was not nominated in the Top 5.\n"}
{"id": "8326603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8326603", "title": "FM Fukuyama", "text": "FM Fukuyama\n\nFM Fukuyama (RADIO BINGO) is a Japanese local FM radio station in Fukuyama.\n\nThe station was founded on January 9, 1996 and went on the air on August 8, 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "21030562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21030562", "title": "Frank Castorf", "text": "Frank Castorf\n\nFrank Castorf (born 17 July 1951 in East Berlin) is a German theater director and was from 1992 to 2015 the artistic director of the \"Volksbühne am Rosa-Luxemburg-Platz\". His work is often associated with postdramatic theatre.\n\nCastorf's father was an ironmonger. Frank Castorf successfully completed his schooling in 1969/70, entering a training for railwaywork. Between 1970 and 1972 he undertook military service with the army's National Border Force.\n\nHe then, between 1971 and 1976, attended the Humboldt University of Berlin, studying theatrology. His teachers included , Rudolf Münz and . His diploma dissertation, which was formally commended, was entitled \"Ground rules for the 'development' of Ionesco's global ideological perspective and artistic-aesthetic position\". He made numerous culturally focused visits to Poland during this period.\n\nIn 2013, he directed a \"deliberately incoherent\" production of the Ring Cycle at the Bayreuth Wagner Festival, which was booed by the audience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26018246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26018246", "title": "FunnyFest Calgary Comedy Festival", "text": "FunnyFest Calgary Comedy Festival\n\nFunnyFest Calgary Comedy Festival is an annual summer comedy festival held in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It was founded by Stu Hughes (stand-up comic and social entrepreneur) in 2001 and has since grown to become Western Canada's largest comedy festival. It showcases over 70 performers both local and international. FunnyFest was also the first comedy festival to be held in Calgary, Alberta. It is a non-profit organization run entirely by volunteers. FunnyFest produces approximately 125 comedy events, seminars, talent development opportunities and workshops per annum. FunnyFest has inspired others to copy its success.\n\nThe 16th annual FunnyFest Calgary Comedy Festival runs from June 2 to June 12, 2016, using 11 venues from theatres, showrooms, hotels to pubs and offers over 11 comedy themes in 30 comedy showcases. Other FunnyFest events are the monthly comedy series, the Christmas Comedy Fest and there is a Comedy Workshop that runs 6 times per year. The FunnyFest Talent Search has talent competitions over 6 different nights to find the funniest person. Anyone with original comedy material can apply to compete.\n\nFunnyFest is a combination of entertainment through its comedy performances throughout the year; learning via workshops on topics, such as, \"Learning How to become a Stand Up Comic\" and \"Laughter in the Workplace\": cultivating local talent through seminars & workshops; comedy industry advocacy, socializing as part of community engagement and also volunteering and fundraising collaborations on behalf of non-profits and charities. FunnyFest donates over 100K worth of value annually to financially challenged people, charities and non-profit organizations.\n\nFunnyFest has produced over 30 comedy performers from the Alberta region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49271794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49271794", "title": "Horace and Pete", "text": "Horace and Pete\n\nHorace and Pete is an American comedy-drama web series created, written, and directed by Louis C.K., who describes it as a tragedy. In addition to C.K., the series also stars Alan Alda, Steve Buscemi, Edie Falco, Laurie Metcalf and Jessica Lange. Dealing with the themes of abuse, mental illness, politics and family dynamics, the series focuses on Horace (played by C.K.), Pete (Buscemi), and Sylvia (Falco) the owners of Horace and Pete's, a run-down Brooklyn bar. The first episode was released on C.K.'s website without any prior announcements on January 30, 2016. New episodes premiered weekly until the tenth episode was released on April 2, 2016. In June 2016, C.K. expressed interest in a second season.\n\nThe series is set in a run-down bar called Horace and Pete's in Brooklyn, New York. The bar has been owned by the same family since 1916 and has been passed down through several generations, always with a Horace and a Pete in charge. The current owners are the 49-year-old Horace Wittel VIII and his 52-year-old cousin Pete. The bar is old-fashioned and tradition bound; for example, no mixed drinks are served and the only beer they sell is Budweiser on tap. Pricing is variable, depending on whether the customer is a regular or a hipster who is drinking there \"ironically\". For many years, the management has been watering down the drinks, justifying it to themselves by saying their alcoholic regular customers would be dead by now if they were drinking full-strength liquor.\n\nWhile there is an overarching narrative concerning the relationships between the members of the family and the future of the bar, there are many stand-alone scenes which take place in the bar and do not advance the main plot. Episode 1, for example, features a debate on liberalism and conservatism between a minor character and two guest actors, while episode 2 features a disastrous Tinder date between two guest actors who have no connection with any of the other characters. A feature of the series was the frequent references to highly topical current events during the barroom discussions. This was made possible by the very short time frames between the production and release of the episodes (less than a week). Other story lines appeared to take place over longer periods.\n\n\n\nC.K. said that the show was inspired by Mike Leigh's 1977 play, \"Abigail's Party,\" which was written and developed using Leigh's improvisation method, and was then made into a multi-camera TV play. \"Abigail's Party's\" story takes place during the course of a night, over drinks and dinner. It is one scene over two hours. C.K. also credits playwright Annie Baker both in discussion about the show and in the credits, as he saw her play \"The Flick,\" and was influenced by her work there. She also helped him with the writing of the first few episodes.\n\nThe idea was a sitcom with no audience or laugh-track, multi-camera, shot from a stage-like perspective (i.e., from one angle). The focus would be, similar to \"Abigail's Party,\" centered on a family. Steve Buscemi came on board first, then Edie Falco and Jessica Lange. C.K. said that the cast will get a portion of the profits. C.K. originally tried to cast Joe Pesci for the role of Uncle Pete Wittel, which was played by Alan Alda. During their conversations Pesci gave C.K. a whole speech on never performing cunnilingus on a woman, which Pesci said C.K. could use; it became Alda's long monologue in episode 4. He also contacted Jack Nicholson and Christopher Walken before deciding upon Alda, who was cast against type. C.K.'s character's name is a homage to the late comedian Harris Wittels, who opened for C.K. and was someone C.K. considered a talented comedian of note.\n\nC.K. started writing the show in October 2015 and then as cast members came on board, he held rehearsals in January 2016. Sections of the show's scripts were kept intentionally blank with placeholders to insert current events, like the upcoming presidential election.\n\nC.K. said that each episode cost half a million dollars to shoot. The show was shot in a studio in New York City called NEP Penn Studios, which is located in the Hotel Pennsylvania across from Madison Square Garden. They shot the show starting in early January 2016, with production lasting about five or six weeks. Using the look and feel of \"Abigail's Party,\" C.K. used a color-coded shot list that was created during rehearsals to enable live-switching between cameras. A quick line-cut would enable a fast turnaround to distribution. Also unique to this approach, the editing becomes focused on dialogue and how the moods of the characters shift. There would be no ad breaks for commercials and no standards & practices that would restrict language. Also important to C.K., and why he did not want to release the show via a television network, was that he wanted the show to be secret and unexpected, where the audience had little to no information before viewing, which he said would have been impossible with a traditional TV show model.\n\nThe strategy was that C.K. would make the first four episodes and use the money people paid for those to fund the rest of the season. Due to lack of promotion, there was not enough money and he went into debt to fund the production of the show. After he finished production on the show C.K. went on a promotional tour to promote the show and recoup some of the costs. C.K. said that what he was going to be doing (i.e., producing shows of varying length, using a theater-based approach to storytelling, distributing the show himself) was going to be so extreme he did not want to have funding from other sources, like FX Networks, even though people like Lorne Michaels strongly discouraged C.K. from doing this.\n\nThe theme song was written and performed by Paul Simon. C.K. asked Simon to write the theme song via email, let Simon read all 10 scripts, and then the two went into the studio for a day to work on the song. The song was subsequently included on the deluxe edition of Simon's 2016 album, \"Stranger to Stranger\". Simon makes a brief appearance as a customer in a flashback scene in episode 10. \"America\" by Simon & Garfunkel, and Dion DiMucci and Paul Simon's \"New York Is My Home\" are featured in different episodes of the show.\n\nThe first episode was released on January 30, 2016, with no press or previous mention. Subscribers to C.K.'s mailing list received an email notice of its availability. It is a continuation of the sell-through direct-to-consumer model that C.K. used successfully in prior releases of content. C.K. said he would eventually sell the show to another outlet (i.e., a cable and/or streaming service), but wanted to use this sales model as a fun experiment to innovate distribution.\n\nC.K. explained that the direct-to-consumer, sell-through model of pricing the pilot at $5 would allow him to produce following episodes. On his website, he discussed the challenges of creating, shooting, and releasing a multi-camera TV show and addressed the pricing, revealing a tiered cheaper price for the remaining episodes of the show: $5 for the first episode, $2 for the next, and the $3 for the rest of the episodes. The show has a very short production-release model, as episode 2 was being shot the week following the pilot, and was released a week after the first episode was made public, with following episodes to come. All of the ten episodes were edited by C.K.'s former \"Louie\" assistant editor Gina Sansom, and had no predetermined running time, ranging in length from 30 minutes to 67 minutes. The closing credits for episode 5 include the notice: End of Act 1. At the close of episode 10, C.K. announces \"That's a wrap on \"Horace and Pete\"\" while the cast applaud in a kind of curtain call. Shortly after the final episode of season one was released, C.K. revealed that guest actress Amy Sedaris, a late casting decision, had developed her own character and improvised all her dialogue.\n\n\"Horace and Pete\"s production, marketing, and distribution model sparked much debate over the strategic, financial, creative options available to content creators. C.K.'s work was compared to Kanye West as both navigate funding singular artistic visions that focus on creative control and in C.K.'s case, distribution, funding, and publicity methods outside the typical television model.\n\nC.K., during an extensive discussion with fellow comic Marc Maron, said that he wanted to open source the process by which he created the show, transparently sharing as much information as possible so others might be able to adopt and learn from his experience.\n\nAt The New Yorker Festival, C.K. told Emily Nussbaum that he sold the show to Hulu.\n\nCritics have been generally positive towards \"Horace and Pete\", with a consensus and praise that the show feels like a filmed stage play. It was favorably compared to \"Playhouse 90,\" with critic Matt Zoller Seitz from \"Vulture\" calling it \"aggressively classical.\" The show has been described as being filmed live, with a realism that reflects technical imperfections that add to subtle moments by a cast of veteran actors. James Poniewozik of \"The New York Times\" called it a \"messy experiment that stays just on the good side of pretentiousness. But it's also probing, engaged and moving.\" \"Entertainment Weekly's\" Ray Rahman said of the performances, \"Alda is magnetic as he descends into sadness, while Falco injects Horace and Pete with tissue-worthy emotion. Buscemi is masterfully Buscemi-ian, and C.K. has only gotten better at making shame-filled frowny faces.\" Alan Sepinwall from HitFix declared Laurie Metcalf's performance the \"year's best\". Filmmaker Stephen Cone gave significant praise to the series in terms of Louis C.K.'s hybridization of film, TV, and theater, comparing him to French film director Alain Resnais and stating: \"Leave it to Louis C.K. to save cinema – whatever that means – with a goddamn web series.\" Seitz focused on the show's unique use of silence, in part a noted homage to a quote by recently deceased Garry Shandling on how there is value and meaning to be had in silence.\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes sampled 23 reviewers and judged 96% of the reviews to be positive. With a mean score of 8.7/10, the site's consensus states, \"\"Horace and Pete\" creator Louis C.K. uses his signature blend of awkward humor – and brilliant performances from a top-notch cast – to pull off an engagingly ambitious experiment in TV tragicomedy.\" On Metacritic the series has a score of 78 out of 100, based on 12 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nOn March 29, 2016, it was reported that Louis C.K. would enter the series in the drama category for the 68th Primetime Emmy Awards. Lead actors C.K. and Steve Buscemi, supporting actors Alan Alda, Steven Wright, Kurt Metzger, Jessica Lange and Edie Falco, and guest stars Laurie Metcalf and Aidy Bryant were reportedly submitted for nomination by C.K. Nominations were announced in July 2016 and the series received two nominations: Laurie Metcalf for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series and Gina Sansom for Outstanding Multi-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series.\n\n"}
{"id": "35636681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35636681", "title": "Icebar Orlando", "text": "Icebar Orlando\n\nIcebar Orlando (stylized as ICEBAR Orlando) is an ice bar located in International Drive in Orlando, Florida. At over , the company claims that it is the world's largest permanent ice bar. Its decor, furniture and glassware are constructed entirely of ice, and the bar also has various ice carvings. Icebar Orlando also runs a bar and nightclub named the Fire Lounge, which is located next to the ice bar and is maintained at a standard room temperature.\n\nIcebar Orlando is composed of over 70 tons of carved ice, and is maintained at a temperature of . Its interior, including the furniture such as couches, tables and chairs, walls, sculptures and various decor, is entirely constructed out of ice. It also has a fireplace sculpted in the appearance of Old Man Winter, which is fired with low-watt electric flames. Icebar Orlando was first sculpted by Aaron Costic, an Ohio-based artist. The facility was later expanded in 2008 by ice sculptor David Berman. In 2008, the projected monthly electric bill for Icebar Orlando was $3,500. Bioclimatic filters are used to reduce electricity costs.\n\nPeople of all ages are allowed to visit Icebar Orlando, and are provided with an insulated thermal cape and gloves to endure the coldness and keep patrons comfortable. An admission fee is charged, adults are provided with an alcoholic drink, and those under the legal drinking age of 21 are provided with a non-alcoholic drink. Drinks are served in glasses made out of ice by servers wearing fur hats and snow suits. For safety reasons, visitors are allowed to remain inside the ice bar for only 45 minutes, and the bar also serves warm drinks. Staff is on a rotational schedule, whereby they are in the facility for 30 minutes and then outside of it for 15 minutes. Some staff members, such as bartenders, bundle up in several layers of clothing to keep warm.\n\nEvents are hosted at Icebar Orlando, such as an annual New Year's Eve masquerade ball. It has been described as a popular meeting place in central Florida.\n\nThe Fire Lounge (stylized as \"FIRE Lounge\") is a bar and nightclub that is also located at Icebar Orlando, and is maintained at a normal room temperature. Visitors to Icebar Orlando are first led through the Fire Lounge, where they are provided with gloves and a thermal cape.\n\nIcebar Orlando has been featured in \"Extreme Barhopping\" on the Travel Channel, \"America's Best Cook\" on the Food Network, and \"Drinking Made Easy\" with comedian Zane Lamprey on HDNet.\n"}
{"id": "18412627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18412627", "title": "Karjalan Sanomat", "text": "Karjalan Sanomat\n\nKarjalan Sanomat (\"Karelian News\") is a Finnish language newspaper from the Republic of Karelia, published in Petrozavodsk.\n\nPrevious names:\n\nFrom 1938 to 1940 the newspaper was printed in Karelian using Cyrillic, rather than Finnish.\n\n"}
{"id": "35026789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35026789", "title": "Kiev Ballet", "text": "Kiev Ballet\n\nKiev National Ballet performs works of classical ballet and tours internationally. It currently has 24 ballets in its repertory, one of the largest in the world, and has had many notable dancers among its members.\n\nThe National Opera of Ukraine, a performing arts theatre with a resident opera company, was established in 1867. It also included a small resident troupe of ballet dancers, who would perform mainly folk-style dancing during opera productions. By 1893, this grew to a troupe large enough to stage large ballets. Folk dancing and ballets with Ukrainian stories were among the early productions.\n\nDuring the 1910s, the dance scene in Kiev saw a rapid development in classical ballet and contemporary dance training and performance. Mikhail Mordkin, a former soloist with the Bolshoi Ballet, travelled to Kiev with a troupe and gave performances with Art Nouveau approaches, containing Spanish and Oriental themes. He was hired by the experimental Kiev Young Theatre between 1916 and 1919, and gained a reputation as an influential teacher of movement and dance.\n\nBronislava Nijinska, sister of Vaslav Nijinsky and a former soloist with Diaghilev's Ballets Russes in Paris, fled to Kiev in 1916 to escape World War I upheaval in Western Europe. Her husband, also a dancer with the Ballets Russes, was hired as ballet master at the Kiev Opera. Nijinska founded a modernist dance school, the École de Mouvement, in Kiev. This was an influential step forward in Kiev's dance culture, exposing artists there to the avant garde of Western Europe. Following the Communist Revolution in Russia and Ukraine, however, Nijinska was forced to flee once more, to Poland, and the school disbanded shortly afterward. Her most prominent pupil while in Kiev was local dancer Serge Lifar, who went on to become principal dancer with the Ballets Russes in 1923, and was considered the most important dancer and choreographer of his generation.\n\nThe first full symphonic Ukrainian ballet, Mr. Kanyovsky by M. Verikivsky, was premiered by the Kiev Ballet on October 18, 1931. In 1935, the Kiev Ballet was awarded the gold medal at the London International Folklore Dance Festival. Also known as the National Ballet of Ukraine, the Kiev Ballet company began to tour internationally by the 1950s, primarily in Communist Bloc countries such as Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, and Hungary, but also to Britain and France. The Kiev Ballet was awarded the Étoile d'Or the French Dance Academy's highest prize, at the 1964 International Dance Festival in Paris. Performances by the National Ballet of Ukraine in Paris were considered highlights of the European cultural calendar for many years.\n\nFollowing Ukraine independence in 1990, the Kiev Ballet began more extensive international touring, adding performances in North America, Europe and Asia to its tours. \n\nChoreographer Anatoly Shekera directed the company from 1992 to 2000. Shekera was a driving force of the National Ballet during the late 20th century. Shekera directed modern and classical ballet works. \n\nThe company currently has around 150 dancers, and stages 16 productions per month in its Kiev theatre, in addition to extensive international touring. Some of the famous former members of the Kiev Ballet are Alina Cojocaru, the Bolshoi's Svetlana Zakharova, Leonid Sarafanov, Maxim Beloserkovsky and his wife, Irina Dvorovenko. Other former members are Maya Plisetskaya, Nadezhda Pavlova, Marina Timofeyeva, Irina Kolpakova, Alla Osipenko, and Vladimir Malakhov.\n\nThe Kyiv Choreographic College, formally Kyiv Choreographic School/Academy was founded by Galina Berezova. The school was founded in 1949 and is considered one of the best ballet schools in the post-Soviet space. It first opened in 1934 as a small studio to train ballet dancers for the Kiev Opera and Ballet Theatre, where the legendary ballet teacher and influencer Agrippina Vaganova worked.\n\n"}
{"id": "14461143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14461143", "title": "LGBT children's television programming", "text": "LGBT children's television programming\n\nEarly children's programming addressing LGBT-related subject matter includes two episodes of \"CBS Schoolbreak Special\". \"What If I'm Gay?\" originally aired on March 31, 1987. The episode told the story of a teenage boy struggling to come to terms with his sexuality. It was nominated for three Daytime Emmy Awards, winning for Outstanding Direction in Children's Programming. The 1993 episode \"Other Mothers\" featured a boy who was afraid that his friends would think he was gay because he has two mothers. The episode was nominated for five Daytime Emmys, winning for Outstanding Writing in a Children's Special, Outstanding Performer in a Children's Special (Justin Whalin) and Outstanding Sound Mixing in a Children's Special. In 1986, HBO broadcast \"The Truth About Alex\", which told the story of a high school athlete who discovers that his best friend Alex is gay.\n\nOn June 18, 2002, children's cable network Nickelodeon ran a program entitled \"Nick News Special Edition: My Family Is Different\". Produced by Linda Ellerbee's Lucky Duck Productions and hosted by Ellerbee, \"My Family Is Different\" featured children of gay and lesbian parents talking with children from households that oppose equal rights for gay and lesbian families.This program was subject to much criticism from Christian organizations, such as the Washington-based Traditional Values Coalition, who believed the program pushed a \"pro-homosexual agenda\" and was not suitable for children.Another organization that opposed this episode was the Parents Television Council who claimed they had no problem with same-sex parents but did not think it was appropriate for Nickelodeon's young target audience.\n\nIn 2014, \"The Legend of Korra\" became the first western children's animation series to not only feature major LGBT characters, but also a lead LGBT character. Although, since the two suspected LGBT characters, Korra and Asami, never shared an on-screen kiss many argued the two were not canonically a couple, simply good friends. The shows creators Mike DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko quickly silenced that argument in a blog post stating, \" Our intention with the last scene was to make it as clear as possible that yes, Korra and Asami have romantic feelings for each other.\"\n\nNickelodeon's \"The Loud House\" debuted their first bi-racial gay couple on July 20th, 2016. Announcement of these characters, Harold and Howard McBride, was met with \"overwhelmingly positive reaction.\" Despite the positive reaction from it's audience and parents on social media, conservative parents, with the help of conservative watch group One Million Moms, have pushed back with a campaign calling for the episode to be cancelled.\n\nIn 2005, PBS planned to release an episode of the children's series \"Postcards from Buster\" in which the animated bunny visits the children of two lesbian couples. When education secretary Margaret Spellings stated disapproval of the planned episode, PBS withdrew plans for airing. Spellings believed the episode to be inappropriate for children as well as a misuse of governmental funding that the show had received. Lisa Reilly (WGBH Member Services), stands by the episode stating that, \"We believe, as do WGBH's educational advisers on this series, that the program is appropriate for our audience and fits the series' mission to introduce children to the rich and varied cultures that make up the United States, including kids living in a wide range of family structures.\" Brigid Sullivan, vice president of WGBH cited that over the course of 40 episodes, the show had represented many different family structures and cultures, including Mormons, Orthodox Jews, Christians, and Muslim families. She said that this represented that the program was meant \"to include, not to exclude, anyone who is part of our society, and for children to see a reflection of themselves on TV is an important part of their development.\"\n\nIn 2016, Rebecca Sugar, creator of \"Steven Universe\", spoke about her desire to create an LGBTQ show that was accessible to young children. Since its creation, \"Steven Universe\" has quickly gained a cult following largely made up of LGBT kids and young adults. In 2016, \"The Answer,\" an episode depicting the romantic meeting of two female characters, Ruby and Sapphire, earned the show its second Emmy nomination.\n\n\"Clarence\" (2014-18), has also been praised for LGBT representation as one of the cartoons main characters, Jeff Randell, has two moms. \n\nTwo characters from the hit show \"Adventure Time\" (2010-present) have been the topic of much speculation from fans, Marceline the Vampire Queen and Princess Bubblegum. Fans have speculated that the two's interactions on-screen could be read as flirting. This speculation was confirmed by the shows creator Pendleton Ward, who has stated that the two used to date. Since Marceline dates a man later in the series, this would make her the networks first out-right bisexual representation.\n\nIn 2017 Disney the creators of \"Andi Mack\" had the character Cyrus played by Joshua Rush come out as gay in the episode titled \"Hey, Who Wants Pizza?\" which was the first episode of season 2. In an effort to ensure the story arc was age appropriate for the network's young audience, Disney consulted with groups such as PFLAG, GLAAD, Common Sense Media, and The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy.\n\nThis was not the channel's first depiction of an LGBT character as \"Good Luck Charlie\" debuted the channel's first lesbian couple on January 26th, 2014. The couple was introduced when the series' main character Charlie has a playdate with her friend Taylor. When Charlie's parents answer the door, they are shocked to find that \"Taylor has two moms!\" as Bob, Charlie's dad exclaims. While many celebrities tweeted their support (including former Disney star Miley Cyrus), conservative watch group One Million Moms was not quiet about their disapproval of the episode and launched an email campaign against the network. They were joined in support by other conservative groups such as Family Research Council and RightWingWatch.\n\nIn 2017, Amazon Video premiered the animated video series Danger & Eggs. The show includes a transgender girl character named Zadie and an agender character named Milo. The show was co-created by Shadi Petosky, a transgender woman, and has many LGBT individuals voice characters featured in the show.\n\nIn September 2007 \"Dottie's Magic Pockets\" became the first available show for children in gay and lesbian families.\n"}
{"id": "11534854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11534854", "title": "Latino Theater Company", "text": "Latino Theater Company\n\nThe Latino Theater Company (LTC) is a theatre producing organization based in Los Angeles, California.\n\nLatino Theater Company was founded in 1985 by its Artistic Director, Jose Luis Valenzuela. Known as the \"Latino Theater Lab\" and based at The Los Angeles Theatre Center (LATC), they produced plays and comedy showcases. They also created the \"New Voices Playwriting Series,\" which commissioned many Latino playwrights. When LATC closed in 1991, LTC moved to the Mark Taper Forum, where Valenzuela created the \"Latino Theater Initiative.\" The group moved to Plaza de La Raza in 1995. LTC returned to The LATC and in 2004 received a grant from the California Cultural and Historical Endowment to renovate The LATC and create a multicultural theater arts center, along with the Latino Museum of History, Art and Culture. In 2006, LTC became the operator of The LATC, and invited several culturally different producing organizations together, creating the \"Cultural Roundtable,\" to create theatre that reflects the cultural landscape of the City of Los Angeles. \"Cultural Roundtable\" participants include Latino Theater Company, Robey Theatre Company, Cedar Grove OnStage, Playwrights' Arena, Culture Clash, American Indian Dance Theatre and the UCLA School of Theater Film and Television.\n\nIn 2003, Latino Theater Company presented \"La Virgen de Guadalupe, Dios Inantzin\", performed at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels in Downtown Los Angeles. The pageant play has been performed every year since, and has become an annual Southern California holiday tradition offered free of charge to the community, for low-income, working families.\n\n"}
{"id": "2514814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514814", "title": "List of anti-war films", "text": "List of anti-war films\n\nWhile some films criticize armed conflicts in a general sense, others focus on acts within a specific war, such as the use of poison gas or the genocidal killing of civilians (e.g., \"Hotel Rwanda\", 2004). Some anti-war films such as \"Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb\" (1964) use parody and black comedy to satirize wars and conflicts. An anti-war film's goal is to show the physical and psychological destruction warfare causes to the soldiers and to innocent civilians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54096114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54096114", "title": "Luis Miguel (TV series)", "text": "Luis Miguel (TV series)\n\nLuis Miguel (stylized onscreen as Luis Miguel, la serie) is an American biographical television series produced by Gato Grande Productions along to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios for Netflix and Telemundo. It is an authorized version on the life of the Mexican singer Luis Miguel. It stars Diego Boneta as the titular character. Filming began on November 16, 2017.\n\nOn 22 April 2018, Karla Gonzales, series showrunner, confirmed that the show has been renewed for a second season.\n\nBefore being known as Luis Miguel, Micky, as his family called him, finds a great satisfaction, love, and security alongside his beloved mother Marcela (Anna Favella) and his younger brother Alex (Juanpa Zurita). A singer of natural talent, he begins gaining recognition and popularity until he turns 11, when his father, Luis Rey (Óscar Jaenada), obsessively gives himself the task of turning his son into the superstar that he himself did not manage to be. As Micky grows and becomes a pop star of the time, with the name of Luis Miguel (Diego Boneta), problems associated with fame and protecting his private life and his great loves begin. While the world falls in love with the masculine image of a tanned young man with a beautiful smile and fascinating lifestyle in Acapulco, which was the hallmark of his career, what lies behind this reality is how fame and fortune can impact a family.\n\n\n\n\nOn 9 April 2018, Telemundo published through its website Now Telemundo a preview of the first episode entitled \"Primera Mirada\". The first episode of the series premiered on 12 April 2018 during an exclusive screening held in Beverly Hills, California, as part of the presentation of the series, Its official premiere was on 22 April 2018 on Telemundo at 9pm/8c, and in Spain and Latin America on Netflix after its broadcast on television, each episode is broadcast every Sunday.\n\nThe first soundtrack of the series, titled \"Luis Miguel La Serie Soundtrack\", was released on 22 April 2018.\n\nThe soundtrack of the series only contains 21 songs available on Spotify. There are some songs that are not shown in the album and are listed below:\n\n"}
{"id": "5631382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5631382", "title": "Lust, Caution", "text": "Lust, Caution\n\nLust, Caution () is a 2007 erotic espionage period thriller film directed by Ang Lee, based on the novella of the same name published in 1979 by Chinese author Eileen Chang. The story is mostly set in Hong Kong in 1938 and in Shanghai in 1942, when it was occupied by the Imperial Japanese Army and ruled by the puppet government led by Wang Jingwei. It depicts a group of Chinese university students from the Lingnan University who plot to assassinate a high-ranking special agent and recruiter working for the puppet government, by using one of their group, an attractive young woman, to lure him into a honey trap. The film is generally accepted to be based on the historical event of Chinese spy Zheng Pingru's failed attempt to assassinate the Japanese collaborator Ding Mocun.\n\nWith this film, Lee won the Golden Lion Award at the Venice Film Festival for the second time, the first being with \"Brokeback Mountain\". The film adaptation and the story are loosely based on events that took place during the Japanese occupation of Shanghai. The film's explicit sex scenes resulted in the film being rated NC-17 in the United States.\n\nHong Kong 1938\n\nDuring the Second Sino-Japanese War, a shy, inexperienced university student, Wong Chia Chi, travels from Shanghai to Hong Kong and attends her first year at Lingnan University. A male student, Kuang Yu Min, invites her to join his patriotic drama club, and soon she becomes a lead actress, inspiring both her audience and her colleagues. Inspired by the troupe's patriotic plays, Kuang persuades the group to make a more concrete contribution to the war against Japan. He devises a plan to assassinate Mr. Yee, a special agent and recruiter of the puppet government of Wang Jingwei set up by the Japanese occupation in China. The beautiful Chia Chi is chosen to take on the undercover role of \"Mrs. Mai\", the elegant wife of a trading company owner. She manages to insert herself into the social circle of Mrs. Yee.\n\nChia Chi catches the eye of Mr. Yee and tries to lure him to a location where he can be assassinated. Chia Chi is still a virgin, and she reluctantly consents to sleeping with another student involved in the plot, in order to practice her role as a married woman if she were to sleep with Yee. Kuang, who has feelings for Chia Chi, is upset by this, but agrees to the arrangement. Attracted to Chia Chi, Yee nearly falls for the trap but withdraws at the last minute. Soon after, Mr. and Mrs. Yee suddenly move back to Shanghai, leaving the students with no further chance to complete their assassination plan. While they are preparing to disband, an armed subordinate of Yee turns up unannounced and tells them that he is aware of their plans. After a violent struggle, the university students kill the subordinate and then go into hiding.\n\nShanghai 1942\nThree years later in Japanese-occupied Shanghai, Chia Chi again encounters Kuang, who is now an undercover agent of the KMT secret service the \"Juntong\", which is seeking to overthrow the Japanese occupation forces and their puppet government. He enlists her into a renewed assassination plan to kill Yee. By this time, Yee has become the head of the secret police department under the puppet government and is responsible for capturing and executing Chinese resistance agents who are working for the KMT. Chia Chi is trained to use weapons and other spy tools. She eventually becomes Yee's mistress, and during their first encounter, Yee has very rough sex with her. Over the next few weeks, however, their sexual relationship becomes very passionate and deeply emotional, which causes conflicting feelings in Chia Chi, who is still involved in the assassination plot.\n\nWhen Chia Chi reports to her KMT superior officer, she exhorts him to carry out the assassination soon so that she will not have to continue her sexual liaisons with Yee, but she is told that the assassination needs to be delayed for strategic reasons. Chia Chi describes the inhuman emotional conflict she is in, sexually and emotionally bound to a man whom she is plotting to assassinate. When Yee sends Chia Chi to a jewelry store with a sealed envelope, she discovers that he has arranged for a large and extremely rare six-carat pink diamond for her, to be mounted in a ring. This provides the Chinese resistance with a chance to get at Yee when he is not accompanied by his bodyguards.\n\nSoon after, Chia Chi invites Yee to accompany her to collect the diamond ring. While entering the jewelry shop, she notices that her friends are not outside (suggesting her friends may have already been caught). When she puts on the ring and sees Yee's obvious love for her, she is overcome by emotion and quietly urges him to leave. Understanding her meaning, Yee immediately flees the shop and escapes the assassination attempt. By the end of the day, most of the resistance group are captured. Yee's deputy was aware of the resistance cell, but did not inform Yee because he hoped to use the opportunity to catch their leader. Emotionally in turmoil, Yee signs their death warrants and the resistance group members, including Chia Chi, are led out to a quarry and executed. As all the members of the resistance group are forced to their knees while the executioners take out their pistols, a sad Kuang, who always loved Chia Chi, gazes at her. Meanwhile, Yee sits on Chia Chi's empty bed in the family guest room while his wife asks him what is going on, since his secretary and two men had taken Chia Chi's belongings and some papers from his office. Yee tells her to keep quiet and to continue playing downstairs, to avoid letting anyone know that something is amiss. If anyone asks, he says, Chia Chi has returned to Hong Kong.\n\n\nThe film premiered at the Venice Film Festival, where it won the Golden Lion, the second such award for Ang Lee. It was released in U.S. theaters on September 28, 2007, where it was rated NC-17 by the Motion Picture Association of America due to some explicit sex scenes. Lee stated that he would make no changes to attempt to get an R rating. After the movie's premiere, director Ang Lee was displeased that Chinese news media (including those from Taiwan) had greatly emphasized the sex scenes in the movie. The version released in the People's Republic of China was cut by about seven minutes (by the director himself) to make it suitable for younger audiences, since China has no rating system. The version released in Malaysia was approved by the Film Censorship Board of Malaysia without alterations and was rated 18SX—those under 18 are barred from the cinema. His earlier film \"Brokeback Mountain\" is banned in Malaysia and banned in China due to homosexuality. It was released on DVD in 2008 with an R-rating since rental outlets and stores do not carry NC-17 titles.\n\nWon: 2007 Golden Lion International Venice Film Festival Award\n\nThe film swept the 2007 Golden Horse Awards, winning seven including Best Actor, Best Feature Film and Best Director.\n\n44th Golden Horse Awards\n\n27th Hong Kong Film Awards\n44th Guldbagge Awards\n65th Golden Globe Awards\n\n61st British Academy Film Awards\n\n2nd Asian Film Awards\n\nThe film was nominated for the Best Film in a Foreign Language BAFTA in 2008.\n\nAng Lee was awarded Freedom of Expression award at the ShoWest convention for his decision to release the film in the United States uncut, rather than editing the film to avoid the MPAA's NC-17 rating.\n\nIn its uncut form, \"Lust, Caution\" features three episodes of graphic sex, with full-frontal nudity. The ten minutes of sex scenes were considered by Lee to be critical to the story and reportedly took 100 hours to shoot.\n\nIn a number of countries, notably the People's Republic of China and India, many of the sex scenes had to be cut before the film could be released. In Singapore, while the film's producers initially decided to release a cut version there which was given an NC-16 rating, a public outcry stating that the producers of the film were underestimating censorship standards in the country (the film was released uncut in Hong Kong and Taiwan) prompted them to eventually release the uncut version with the higher R21 rating in Singapore. The film is rated R18 and was released uncut in New Zealand.\n\nThe following scenes were cut from the mainland China version: \n\nThe film's end credits ends with a 18 U.S.C § 2257 notice.\n\nTang Wei was ostracized from China's movie industry and did not work for three years because the State Administration of Radio Film and Television (SARFT) disapproved of Tang's performance of sexual acts in \"Lust, Caution\". All print ads and feature content using Tang were removed, and her endorsements were discontinued. She was set to star in Tian Zhuangzhuang's budget period film \"The Warrior and the Wolf\" (2009), but was replaced by Maggie Q. In February 2009, during her absence from the movie industry, she was reported to have briefly attended drama classes at the University of Reading in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe film was co-produced by the American companies Focus Features and River Road Productions, and Chinese companies Shanghai Film Group Corporation and Haishang Films and the Taiwanese Hai Sheng Film Production Company. The director is Ang Lee, who is a naturalized U.S. citizen, and the actors/actresses are from mainland China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan as well as the United States. It was shot in Shanghai, the neighboring province of Zhejiang, Hong Kong (at Hong Kong University), and some locations in Penang and Ipoh in Malaysia used as 1930s/1940s Hong Kong.\n\nOriginally, the film's country was identified as \"China-USA\" by the organizers of the Venice Film Festival. However, a few days later, the Venice Film Festival changed the film to \"USA-China-Taiwan, China\" on its official schedule. When the film premiered at the event, Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council protested the Venice event's use of \"Taiwan, China\" to identify films from the island and blamed China for the move.\n\nAfter the film's premiere, Taiwan submitted the film as its Best Foreign Film Oscar entry. However, the Oscars asked Taiwan to withdraw the film because some key crew members were not locals. Oscars spokeswoman Teni Melidonian said in an e-mail organizers refused to accept the film because \"an insufficient number of Taiwanese participated in the production of the film,\" violating a rule that requires foreign countries to certify their locals \"exercised artistic control\" over their submission.\n\nOn September 13, 2007, an elderly lady, Zheng Tianru, staged a press conference in Los Angeles, claiming that the movie was about real-life events that happened in World War II, and wrongfully portrayed her older sister, Zheng Pingru, as a promiscuous secret agent who seduced and eventually fell in love with the assassination target Ding Mocun (she alleges that the characters were renamed to Wong Chia Chi and Mr. Yee in the movie). Taiwan's investigation bureau confirmed that Zheng Pingru failed to kill Ding Mocun because her gun jammed, rather than developing a romantic relationship with the assassin's target. Director Ang Lee maintains that Eileen Chang wrote the original short story as fiction.\n\n, on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, 73% of critics gave the film positive reviews, the consensus said \"Ang Lee's \"Lust, Caution\" is a tense, sensual and beautifully-shot espionage film\". On Metacritic, the film had an average score of 61 out of 100, based on 34 reviews.\n\nJack Mathews of the New York \"Daily News\" named it the 5th best film of 2007. Kenneth Turan of the \"Los Angeles Times\" named it the 6th best film of 2007.\n\nThe Chinese press gave generally positive reviews. In analyzing how successful Lee's film was as an adaptation of Eileen Chang's short story, literary critic Leo Ou-fan Lee wrote in \"Muse\" Magazine that he 'found [his] loyalties divided between Eileen Chang and Ang Lee. But after three viewings of the film, I have finally opted for Lee because deep down I believe in film magic which can sometimes displace textual fidelity.' In an earlier issue of \"Muse\" however, film critic Perry Lam had criticized Lee's direction: 'in his eagerness to make the movie appealing to a mass audience, Lee seems guilty of sentimentalism.' Sentimental or not, there is certainly a palpable trace of Lee's sympathy for Chang's personal love life, \"It was hard for me to live in Eileen Chang's world...There are days I hated her for it. It's so sad, so tragic. But you realize there's a shortage of love in her life: romantic love, family love.\" He added, \"This is the story of what killed love for her.\"\n\nIt has been noted by critics (including Bryan Appleyard) that the Hong Kong sequences in the film set in the late 1930s include \"London taxis\" of two types (FX3, FX4) that were only manufactured onwards from 1948 and 1958 respectively.\n\n\"Lust, Caution\" was produced on a budget of approximately $15 million.\n\nIn Hong Kong, where it played in its entirety, \"Lust, Caution\" grossed US$6,249,342 (approximately $48 million HKD) despite being saddled with a restrictive \"Category III\" rating. It was the territory's biggest-grossing Chinese language film of the year, and third biggest overall (behind only \"Spider-Man 3\" and \"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\").\n\nThe film was also a huge success in China, despite playing only in a heavily edited version. It grossed US$17,109,185, making it the country's sixth highest-grossing film of 2007 and third highest-grossing domestic production.\n\nIn North America, the NC-17 rating which \"Lust, Caution\" received is traditionally perceived as a box office \"kiss-of-death\". In its opening weekend in one U.S. theatre, it grossed $63,918. Expanding to seventeen venues the next week, its per-screen average was $21,341, before cooling down to $4,639 at 125 screens. Never playing at more than 143 theatres in its entire U.S. run, it eventually grossed $4,604,982. As of August 15, 2008, it was the fifth highest-grossing NC-17 production in North America. Focus Features was very satisfied with the United States release of this film.\n\nWorldwide, \"Lust, Caution\" grossed $67,091,915.\n\nIn the United States, two DVD versions of this film were released: the original NC-17 version and the censored R-rated version.\n\nThis film has generated more than $24 million from its DVD sales and rentals in the United States, an impressive result for a film that only grossed $4.6 million in limited theatrical release in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "14840792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14840792", "title": "Media portrayals of Indigenous Australians", "text": "Media portrayals of Indigenous Australians\n\nMedia portrayals of Indigenous Australians fall into a range of categories, which academics and commentators have described as often negative or stereotyped. In issues which concern them, Indigenous voices are continually drowned out by non-Indigenous voices, which present them as \"problems\" for the rest of society. Most stories are directed at white audiences, and anything which concerns welfare, or land rights especially, is tinged with a clear sense of conflict between \"us\" and \"them.\" Indigenous people are often portrayed positively in documentaries and advertisements, almost as tourist attractions, yet when they interact with contemporary society they are seen as threatening. Many reviews of mass media have found that the race of criminal offenders is mentioned more often when the offenders are Aboriginal. The mainstream media is still seen as influential in shaping public opinion, and the Australian media continues to pander to racist stereotypes.\n\nOne 1994 study found that no newspaper managers interviewed believed their papers were racist, but most Aboriginal interviewees believed that mainstream newspapers \"failed Aborigines dismally\". The same survey found that no major paper had any Indigenous Australians as editors, and that only editors specializing in Indigenous issues had any significant knowledge of Indigenous cultures. Most editors also said that they saw their readership as white, and some conceded that this perception affected their news coverage. In 1992, a systematic survey of mainstream media, including television, news, and radio, found that \"the exclusion of (non-stereotyped) diversity is almost total in all the media studied.\"\n\nIn issues specifically relating to Indigenous Australians, Indigenous voices are still dwarfed by non-Indigenous voices in press coverage. One study of the \"Sydney Morning Herald\"'s coverage of Wik and native title found that only one quarter of relevant articles contained any Indigenous voices.\n\nA 1992 study of several media found that the only highly reported issues relating to multiculturalism (including but not limited to Indigenous issues) were immigration and Indigenous land rights, both of which were presented as \"problems for the majority culture.\" One author has explained that Mabo coverage was so in-depth because Mabo \"reached far into the heart of non-Aboriginal Australia.\" The way in which Mabo was covered also reflected papers' presumed white readership: according to Dunbar, most stories were directed at white audiences, with a clear sense of conflict between \"us\" and \"them.\" When Mabo was mentioned on the front page, it was almost always portrayed as a potential threat to the population as a whole, as opposed to belated justice for Indigenous Australians. This pattern was also seen in news coverage of a community funeral in Woorabinda that was used as an opportunity to arrest fifty Indigenous people on outstanding fine warrants. The Indigenous community was outraged, but the local paper reported the arrests without any mention of their happening at a funeral. The paper's chief of staff explained this way: \n\"We decided there is a perception that the majority of readers don't really care what happened out there. […] There was a blowout over the fact it happened at a funeral and we did not embroil ourselves in the shit fight that blacks hate police and police hate blacks. It would not have achieved anything. We had to make a conscious decision based on our circulation; we had nothing to gain circulation-wise by continuing the fight for days and days.\"\n\nIn 1990 the Federal government conducted a National Inquiry into Racist Violence. Many people complained to the Inquiry about alleged racism in media reporting. This was recognised by the enquiry as being due in part to there often being a gap between many white media representations of Indigenous people and Indigenous perspectives of their own situations. The report's 64 recommendations included:\n\nThe Royal Commission into Aboriginal Deaths in Custody also made recommendations proposing the development of codes of practice and policies relating to the presentation of Aboriginal issues; the establishment of monitoring bodies and the putting into place of training and employment programs for Aboriginal people.\n\nA cartoon that portrayed an Aboriginal father holding a beer can and unable to remember his son's name was published in The Australian newspaper in 2016. The cartoon was created by Bill Leak, a cartoonist already familiar to controversy. The cartoon was reported to the Australian Human Rights Commission, which chose to investigate whether the cartoon breached section 18c of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975. Although the case was later dropped by the Commission, there was immense public discussion about whether the cartoon should be allowed under Freedom of speech. The Liberal government also proposed erasing section 18c of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 to protect what they allege is a matter of \"freedom of speech\". \n\nFrances Peters-Little, an Aboriginal film-maker, has observed that television portrayals of Indigenous people are divided into nobles or savages. At the savage end of the pole is the portrayal of Aboriginal criminality in the mainstream news media. Many systematic content reviews of mass media have found that the race of criminal offenders is mentioned more often when the offenders are Aboriginal. Author Heather Goodall has argued that photos used repeatedly in the coverage of the 1987 Brewarrina riot, which took place after an Aboriginal death in custody, illustrate how mainstream media pander to whites' expectations of Aboriginal violence. The first of two iconic images depicted a young Aboriginal man throwing a stone at a hotel, evoking \"an Aboriginal threat to the country pub, that symbol of Australian rural life, mateship and social networks.\" The second, a photo of a breaking window, was shot so close-up that one can no longer recognize the image as one of Brewarrina; instead, one could only see an Indigenous Australian relentlessly destroying white property.\n\nThese negative images, however, coexist with \"invariably positive and sympathetic\" portrayals of Aboriginals in advertisements and documentaries, which typically depict them in \"'traditionalist' roles, dress, poses, and activities.\" For example, one study of 100,000 seconds of Australian advertising found that the only Indigenous Australians pictured were children with painted faces. Documentary film-making about Indigenous subjects generally also centers on traditional culture in northern and central Australia, neglecting the more urban areas of the south and east. One author has suggested that these positive images of Indigenous Australians can coexist with the negative news images because advertisements and documentaries depict Indigenous Australians as distant from the modern world; only when they interact with contemporary society are they seen as threatening.\n\n"}
{"id": "27445422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27445422", "title": "Mr. Vampire 1992", "text": "Mr. Vampire 1992\n\nMr. Vampire 1992, also known as Chinese Vampire Story, is a 1992 Hong Kong comedy horror film directed by Ricky Lau. The film is the fifth of a series of five jiangshi films directed by Ricky Lau in the \"Mr. Vampire\" franchise. The Chinese title of the film literally translates to New Mr. Vampire.\n\n\"Mr. Vampire 1992\" is considered to be the true sequel to the original 1985 \"Mr. Vampire\", as the main cast (Lam Ching-ying, Ricky Hui and Chin Siu-ho) in the first film reprised their roles. \"Mr. Vampire 1992\" is also set directly after the events in \"Mr. Vampire\", with some references to the first film, such as Man-choi commenting on how he felt after being infected with the \"hopping corpse virus\". New characters were introduced in \"Mr. Vampire 1992\", and some actors from the first film, such as Billy Lau, were recast in new roles.\n\nThe film is based on the concept of the souls of aborted fetuses who reside in statues awaiting reincarnation. One of these is a particularly nasty soul who possesses a nanny who in turn sets to work to find the suitable host pregnant lady which turns out to be Priest Kau's childhood sweetheart (who is married to the General).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2445686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2445686", "title": "Mudflap (Transformers)", "text": "Mudflap (Transformers)\n\nMudflap is the name of three fictional characters in the Transformers series.\n\nMudflap transforms into a construction crane. In the Japanese version of the series; \"Transformers: Galaxy Force\", the character is called Demolishor.\n\nIn the cartoon, Mudflap was originally one of the Autobot civilian refugees hiding on Earth. Disgruntled with having to exist in secret amongst the lowly human race and stopping at traffic lights, Mudflap was sought out and recruited to join the Decepticons by Starscream, but then he left and wandered Earth. Eventually Mudflap rejoins the Autobots.\n\nHis toyline bio, however, tells a different story. In this version of events, Mudflap was an undercover Decepticon operative placed on Earth before the Autobots had even arrived. Having infiltrated the construction industry, he spent his time sabotaging the infrastructure of human society.\n\nMudflap's voice in the \"Cybertron\" cartoon is performed with some variation of a French accent.\n\nIn episode 15, \"Race\", the Autobot Mudflap rants about his dislike for the disorderly humans when he is approached by Starscream and Thundercracker. Focusing on his dislike for being forced to live with the humans, Starscream is able to talk him into joining the Decepticons.\n\nIn episode 20, \"Ice\", Starscream and Mudflap confront the Autobot's human allies at the North Pole, but are opposed by Scattorshot. Although Scattorshot gets the better of Mudflap initially, Starscream uses water to freeze up Scattorshot's systems. The humans and Mini-Con Recon Team use Mudflap's dropped gun to signal the other Autobots, who come to their rescue.\n\n\nLandmine discovered that Mudflap had joined the Decepticons in episode 27 \"Revelations\". They fought in episode 28 \"Critical.\" Mudflap followed Megatron to Starscream's island headquarters in episode 29 \"Assault,\" but Landmine followed him there.\n\nIn episode 30, \"Starscream\", Mudflap aided Megatron in fighting Wing Saber, then fought with Evac.\n\nIn episode 31, \"United\", Scourge, Mudflap, Crumplezone, Ransack and Thundercracker followed Megatron on the Space Bridge to Cybertron. They were joined by Thunderblast, who claimed she'd rather work for Megatron than Starscream.\n\n\nWhen the Autobots attempted to use a gigantic rocket to move the Jungle Planet back into its orbit, Galvatron attacked and damaged the rocket. The Jungle Planet threatened to crash into Cybertron. The combined strength of Scourge, the Autobots, the former Decepticons (Dark Crumplezone, Ransack, Thunderblast and Thundercracker), and their allies from the various planets (including Mudflap) were able to combine their strength and move the rocket back into place.\n\nWhen the character of Signal Lancer was animated in the final episode of Cybertron, the animators used a slightly modified transformation sequence from Mudflap.\n\nMudflap is described as a vicious Decepticon who likes to use his saw on Autobots, but secretly wishes he was one. Though marketed in the toy line supporting the 2007 film \"Transformers\", he does not appear in it. In addition, he is not related to the Mudflap seen in the 2009 sequel \"\".\n\nThis version of Mudflap only appeared in issues 23 and 24 of the UK Titan Magazine Transformers series. He was among a group of Decepticons on Earth in an alternate timeline story.\n\nMudflap appears in the second Transformers installment as an Autobot. This character is not related to Mudflap who appeared in the toy line for the first film. He, like his twin brother , typically speaks hip-hop. Originally forming an old ice cream truck with Skids, Mudflap gains his own vehicle mode following the Shanghai operation. Their robot modes were revealed for a short time on the web, but were taken off due to the request by Activision.\n\nMudflap is 11 foot 4 inches tall and weighs 1.2 metric tons. He has an oversized left arm, while his brother Skids has an oversized right arm and had a license plate that reads \"MDFLP\".\n\nAccording to the biography and statistics published on the Hasbro web site Mudflap is 8 feet tall and he has a nearly psychic link with his brother allowing them to make coordinated attacks. It also states that Skids and Mudflap used to serve as messengers before becoming warriors.\n\nSkids and Mudflap appeared in commercials for Burger King during the release of the 2009 film.\n\nIn \"Tales of the Fallen\" #6 Arcee is taken by Thundercracker and given to the Decepticon medic Flatline, who experiments on her. Upon waking up she discovers Skids and Mudflap are also captives of the Decepticons.\n\nMudflap first appeared in \"Transformers: Alliance\" #4 as one of the Autobots who responded to Optimus Prime's call to Earth. He joined with Optimus' team as part of NEST.\n\nMudflap appears in \"\" #1, set months after the events of the 2009 film. Alice steals an RV in Seattle and is chased by Skids and Mudflap, who keep her occupied until Sideswipe arrives and defeats her. She is taken to NEST headquarters on Diego Garcia to be examined by Ratchet. Sideswipe is disgusted by her decision to disguise herself as a human.\n\nIn California the Autobots set a trap for Starscream's minions Divebomb, Fearswoop and Skystalker by having Theodore Galloway pose as an arms dealer attempting to purchase Cybertronian technology. The trap is uncovered and the Autobots send in Arcee, Chromia, Elita-One, Ironhide, Mudflap and Skids. Divebomb and Skystalker are killed while Fearswoop is captured by the Autobots and taken back to the NEST base on Diego Garcia.\n\nMudflap, who originally transforms into half of an ice cream truck, fails to capture in Shanghai, China. When he returns to the N.E.S.T. base on Diego Garcia he scans a new vehicle form, that of a concept car. Initially he wanted the \"\"green one\" but his brother beat him to it so he took the red-orange one. They then approach and accompany Bumblebee who rescues Sam Witwicky from Megatron and Starscream. The twins then accompany Wheelie, Sam and friends and in their search for the ancient Seeker Jetfire and is teleported with them to Egypt. Finding themselves at a dead end, Mudflap's brawl with Skids unintentionally causes them to find the Tomb of the Primes before Bumblebee tosses them out. The twins then accompany Simmons and Leo into devising a plan to destroy the Sun Harvester. They encounter Devastator, in which Mudflap is sucked in by Devastator's vortex grinder while attempting in vain to hang on for dear life. Though swallowed, Mudflap breaks out of Devastator as he and Skids battle against the giant before the two are knocked off. The two are briefly seen taking cover under Devastator and are not seen afterwards.\n\nMudflap and Skids were originally set to appear in \"\", but they were cut from the final film due to many fans considering them to be racist and due to time restraints. Despite this, he and Skids do appear in vehicle form at the end of an Autobot convoy at the beginning of the film. In the comic version of the movie they are both killed by Sentinel Prime.\n\nThere has been a strong negative reaction to Mudflap and Skids in \"Revenge of the Fallen\" as the pair were received as embodying racist stereotypes. The characters have been given ape-like appearance, speak in street-slang dialogue, and confess an inability to read (though the film clarifies that they only have difficulty reading the ancient Language of the Primes that no other modern Transformer can read either, not reading in general and in the film itself they admit to not reading often); one of the characters also has a gold tooth. Manohla Dargis of the \"New York Times\" said that \"the characters [...] indicate that minstrelsy remains as much in fashion in Hollywood as when, well, Jar Jar Binks was set loose by George Lucas.\" Critic Scott Mendelson said, \"To say that these two are the most astonishingly racist caricatures that I've ever seen in a mainstream motion picture would be an understatement.\" Harry Knowles, founder of Ain't It Cool News, went further, asking his readers \"not to support this film\"\" because \"You'll be taking [your children] to see a film with the lowest forms of humor, stereotypes and racism around.\" \"Director Michael Bay has defended the robots as \"good clean fun\" and insisted that \"We're just putting more personality in the film.\"\" Bay stated that he made the robots for the kids, but he did remove them from Dark of the Moon in response.\n\nMudflap is among the characters who appear in the \"TRANSFORMERS CVBERVERSE Battle Builder Game\".\n\nAll toys of this character are officially licensed from General Motors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23619584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23619584", "title": "Musical fiction", "text": "Musical fiction\n\nMusical fiction is a genre of fiction in which music is paramount: both as subject matter, and through the rhythm and flow of the prose; that is, music is manifested through the language itself. \n\nNotable authors who have written novels of musical fiction include Don DeLillo (\"Great Jones Street\"), Tom Perotta (\"The Wishbones\"), Lewis Shiner (\"Glimpses\"), Roddy Doyle (\"The Commitments\"), Robert Dunn (\"Pink Cadillac\"), Nick Hornby (\"High Fidelity\"), Ibi Kaslik (\"The Angel Riots\"), Scott Spencer (\"The Rich Man's Table\"), Brian Paone (\"Yours Truly, 2095\"), and Randy Blazak (\"The Mission of the Sacred Heart\").\n\nIn her anthology The Best of Rock Fiction, editor June Skinner Sawyers writes, “Rock fiction has not received the proper respect it deserves, which is unfortunate given the caliber of writers who have captured its fleeting essence on the written page.”\n\nIn the same anthology, Rolling Stone writer Anthony DeCurtis talks about “the edgy relationship” between music and the written word. “Words are long-standing symbols of permanence. Music ultimately is ephemeral, evaporating into your unreliable memory once you’ve heard it. In taking music as their inspiration, writers seek to capture some of that immediacy, that spirit of the moment, and hold it still for their reader’s pleasure.”\n\n"}
{"id": "57565778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57565778", "title": "Natalia Cuevas", "text": "Natalia Cuevas\n\nNatalia Milena Cuevas Tapia (born 18 March 1966) is a Chilean singer, comedian, impressionist, and actress.\n\nNatalia Cuevas studied dance at the Municipal Theatre of Santiago for two years. She also took a course in vocal techniques and singing at the Alicia Puccio Academy. While still at school, she participated as a singer in several television contests. After some attempts, she managed to find work as a chorister on the Canal 13 television programs ' and '. At the same time she worked singing jingles and was part of the University of Chile Symphony Orchestra.\n\nShe took her first steps as a comedian in the group Contratiempo. In the early 1990s she was invited onto the comic program \"\", where she appeared for two years. On the show she began to develop impressions of various singers and television personalities, such as Marta Sánchez, , Myriam Hernández, and Cecilia.\n\nIn 2001 Cuevas appeared for the first time at the Viña del Mar Festival, accompanying the comedian and singer Memo Bunke. In her performance, Cuevas imitated Paloma San Basilio, Myriam Hernández, Palmenia Pizarro, and Cecilia. Both comedians received Gold and Silver Seagull awards.\n\nThe following year she participated in the Chilevisión program \"Calor humano\". She was also invited onto \"Viva el lunes\" several times. She later joined \"\", a Canal 13 program hosted by and Margot Kahl.\n\nIn 2003 she returned to the Viña del Mar Festival, this time solo. In her routine she played Marjorie, a character of her own creation that she had shown for the first time on \"Jappening con ja\". In her performance she also imitated Cecilia, Patricia Maldonado, , Palmenia Pizarro, Shakira, Thalía, and Myriam Hernandez. Cuevas was awarded a silver torch. In 2004 she reappeared at Viña del Mar, but did not achieve the success of previous years. The comedian was nervous and abandoned her routine earlier than expected.\n\nIn 2012 she participated in the Canal 13 program \", where she imitated the singer Cecilia. The following year she appeared at the , imitating President Michelle Bachelet.\n\nShe is currently working on comic imitations and sketches on the program \".\n\nIn March 2013, she revealed through an interview with the television program \"Bienvenidos\" that during her childhood she was sexually abused by a priest. According to Cuevas, she had not come forward because, \"the child always believes that he is provoking this situation, so he feels afraid to confess it, because he thinks that he will be challenged or punished.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "411296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411296", "title": "Ofcom", "text": "Ofcom\n\nThe Office of Communications (), commonly known as Ofcom, is the UK government-approved regulatory and competition authority for the broadcasting, telecommunications and postal industries of the United Kingdom.\n\nOfcom has wide-ranging powers across the television, radio, telecoms and postal sectors. It has a statutory duty to represent the interests of citizens and consumers by promoting competition and protecting the public from harmful or offensive material.\n\nSome of the main areas Ofcom presides over are licensing, research, codes and policies, complaints, competition and protecting the radio spectrum from abuse (e.g. pirate radio stations).\n\nThe regulator was initially established by the Office of Communications Act 2002 and received its full authority from the Communications Act 2003.\n\nThe creation of Ofcom was announced in the Queen's Speech to the UK Parliament, in June 2001. The new body, which would replace several existing authorities, was conceived as a \"super-regulator\" to oversee media channels that were rapidly converging through digital transmission. Ofcom launched on 29 December 2003, formally inheriting the duties that had previously been the responsibility of five different regulators:\n\n\nIn July 2009, Conservative party opposition leader David Cameron said in a speech against the proliferation of quangos that:With a Conservative government, Ofcom as we know it will cease to exist… Its remit will be restricted to its narrow technical and enforcement roles. It will no longer play a role in making policy. And the policy-making functions it has today will be transferred back fully to the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. Under Cameron's subsequent premiership of the 2010 UK coalition government, the Public Bodies Act 2011 did remove or modify several of Ofcom's duties, although it did not substantially reduce Ofcom's remit.\n\nOn 1 October 2011, Ofcom took over responsibility for regulating the postal services industry from the Postal Services Commission (Postcomm).\n\nIn April 2015, Ofcom announced that telephone companies would have to provide customers with a set charge for the cost of calling numbers starting 084, 087 and 09. The streamlining of these charges must be printed in each customer's contract and monthly bills. The change came into force on 1 July 2015 and affected over 175 million phone numbers, making it the biggest overhaul of telephoning in over a decade.\n\nOn 1 January 2016, the regulation of video on demand was transferred to Ofcom from ATVOD, the Authority for Television on Demand.\n\nThe Digital Economy Act 2017 extended Ofcom's remit and powers. Ofcom were given powers concerning the minimum broadband speed provided by Internet service providers, the ability to financially penalise communications providers for failing to comply with licence commitments and the power to require public service broadcasters to include a minimum quantity of children's programming made in the United Kingdom. The act also transferred to Ofcom the regulation of the BBC, a duty previously undertaken by the BBC Trust, and updated the Ofcom Electronic Communications Code to make it easier for telecommunications companies to erect and extend mobile masts.\n\nNews International phone hacking scandal\nIn July 2011, in the wake of the News International phone hacking scandal, Ofcom came under pressure to launch an inquiry into whether the parent company of News International, News Corporation, was still the \"fit and proper\" owner of a controlling stake in the satellite broadcasting company British Sky Broadcasting (BSkyB). On 13 July former Prime Minister Gordon Brown urged Ofcom to launch an investigation. On 15 July the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg stated that the Government would launch a review of laws on what constituted a \"fit and proper\" owner for broadcasting companies in the United Kingdom, and that anyone found not to meet that standard can be forced to give up their current holdings in a company. \n\nOn 22 July 2011, it was reported that Ofcom had begun an investigation into whether the phone-hacking scandal may have changed BSkyB's status as the \"fit and proper\" holder of a UK broadcasting licence. On the same day Ed Richards, the then chief executive of Ofcom, replied to Simon Hughes MP, Don Foster MP and Tim Farron MP following a letter which they had written to him on 8 July concerning News Corporation's shareholding in BSkyB. In the letter Richards confirmed that Ofcom considers that News Corporation's current shareholding of 39.14% in BSkyB does give it a material influence over the company; that Ofcom is not precluded from acting by ongoing police investigations; and that Ofcom's process is not dependent upon a criminal conviction being secured.\n\nIn April 2012, Ofcom's probe moved from a monitoring phase to an \"evidence gathering\" phase.\n\nOfcom licenses all UK commercial television and radio services in the UK. Broadcasters must comply by the terms of their licence, or risk having it revoked. Ofcom also publishes the Broadcasting Code, a series of rules which all broadcast content on television and radio must follow. The Broadcasting Code requires that content inappropriate for children should not be broadcast between the hours of 5:30a.m. and 9:00p.m. Premium-rate film services may broadcast content equivalent to a BBFC 15 certificate at any time of day provided a PIN-protected system is in place to restrict access to those authorised to view it. The broadcasting of pornography with a BBFC R18 certificate is not permitted. In 2010 Ofcom revoked the licences of four free-to-air television channels for promoting adult chat services during daytime hours and transmitting content that was too sexually explicit. The companies involved were fined £157,250. Ofcom's jurisdiction does not cover television and radio channels which are broadcast in the UK but licensed abroad. In 2012 Ofcom lodged a complaint with the Dutch media regulator regarding the content of adult chat television channels which are broadcast in the UK but licensed in the Netherlands. Based on a survey of 200 British respondents, Ofcom published in 2016 a list of about 50 words classified in four grades of offensiveness, from \"milder\" to \"strongest.\"\n\nOfcom regulates the UK telecoms sector, defining and enforcing the conditions by which all mobile and fixed-line phone and broadband companies must abide. These 'general conditions' are wide-ranging rules relating to matters such as telephone numbering, emergency services, sales, marketing and interconnection standards. Ofcom's investigation unit monitors compliance with the conditions and resolves disputes between providers.\n\nOfcom is also the competition authority for telecoms, enforcing remedies in markets where it believes dominant operators may have a potentially harmful influence on competition or consumers. One of its most high-profile interventions was to require BT to split its wholesale and retail arms into separate companies, bringing about the creation of Openreach which supplies wholesale services to both BT Retail and competing providers.\n\nOn 1 July 2015, Ofcom made a number of changes to the way phone calls to UK service numbers would be charged. Under the new legislation, which was promoted by an information campaign entitled UK Calling, call charges must be clearly stated on all materials that advertise a service number. The changes came after research found that callers are often confused about service call charges, and thus can avoid calling these numbers. The July 2015 changes also saw 'freephone numbers' 0800 and 0808 become free to call from both mobiles and landlines.\n\nIn March 2016, Ofcom launched an interactive \"Mobile coverage and fixed broadband checker\", allowing people to check mobile coverage and broadband speeds via their post code.\n\nOfcom is responsible for the management, regulation, assignment and licensing of the electromagnetic spectrum in the UK, and licenses portions of it for use in television and radio broadcasts, mobile phone transmissions, private communications networks, wireless devices and so on. The process of licensing varies depending on the type of use required. Some licences simply have to be applied and paid for, other commercial licences are subject to a bidding process. Most of the procedures in place have been inherited from the systems used by the previous regulators. However, Ofcom may change some of these processes in future.\n\nOfcom protects the radio spectrum in a number of ways:\n\n\nIn October 2010 the government announced plans for Ofcom to inherit the functions of Postcomm as part of a wider set of public service sell-off measures. Following the Postal Services Act 2011 regulatory responsibility for postal services transferred to Ofcom on 1 October 2011, with its primary duty to maintain the UK's six-day-a-week universal postal service.\n\nOfcom makes extensive use of consultations with industry and the public to help it make decisions based upon the evidence presented. Consultation processes begin with publishing documents on its website, asking for views and responses. If the document is perceived to be long and complicated, a plain English summary is usually published as well. A period, usually of 10 weeks, is allowed for interested persons, companies or organisations to send in their responses to the consultation.\n\nAfter this consultation period, Ofcom publishes all the responses on its website, excluding any personal or confidential information. Ofcom then prepares a summary of the responses received, and uses this information as a basis for its decisions.\n\nLord (Terry) Burns was appointed as chairman of Ofcom for a four-year term from 1 January 2018. \n\nSharon White became Ofcom's chief executive in 2015, replacing Ed Richards.\n\nOn 15 March 2016 it was announced that Steve Gettings would become Corporation Secretary in succession to Graham Howell.\n\nThe first chairman of Ofcom (2002–2009) was David Currie, Dean of Cass Business School at City University and a life peer under the title Lord Currie of Marylebone. The first chief executive (2003–2007) was Stephen Carter, Baron Carter of Barnes, formerly a senior executive of JWT UK and and subsequently a Minister for Communications, Technology and Broadcasting.\n\nColette Bowe was appointed Ofcom chairman with effect from 11 March 2009. She was the founding chairman of the Telecoms Ombudsman Council, and chaired Ofcom's Consumer Panel from its inception in 2003 to December 2007.\n\nDame Patricia Hodgson DBE was appointed as chairman of Ofcom for a three-year term from April 2014. She was a member of the Ofcom board from July 2011 and became deputy chairman in January 2012. On 18 July 2016 it was announced that her term would be extended for a further year until 2018. \n\nOfcom's key personnel are:\n\nOfcom publishes a register of disclosable interests of the Ofcom board.\n\nOfcom has a number of committees and advisory bodies which inform the Ofcom Board and Executive. These include:\n\nOfcom has received criticism for incurring unnecessary costs as a result of \"extravagant Thames-side offices\" and a \"top-heavy salary bill\", for inflexibility in its regulation of commercial radio, and for \"poor service\". In response to ongoing expenditure concerns, Ofcom made the following statement regarding the 2017/2018 budget: \"Ofcom has delivered 12 consecutive years of like-for-like real-terms budget reductions, and we will continue to reduce spending wherever we can.\"\n\nThe Qatar-based newsmedia outlet was reported to Ofcom in January 2017, following an exposé about Israeli diplomatic corp irregularities and influence peddling amongst political and student groups in the UK.\nAfter investigations exceeding eight months, Ofcom reported that Al Jazeera was in line with journalism standards and cleared the filmmakers of the allegations.\n\nIn May 2011, Ofcom ruled that Press TV, an Iranian English-language satellite channel, was responsible for a serious breach of UK broadcasting rules and could face a fine for airing an interview with Maziar Bahari, the \"Newsweek\" journalist arrested covering the Iranian presidential election in 2009, that was obtained by force while he was held in a Tehran jail.\n\nUpon the release of Ofcom's findings, Press TV claimed that Maziar Bahari was \"an MI6 contact person\" taking guidance from \"The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion, protocol No. 7\". Press TV called Ofcom's ruling \"part of an anti-Iranian campaign,\" and that \"A quick look at senior decision makers at OFCOM demonstrates that the regulator is mostly made up of former Channel 4 and BBC executives, some of whom are well-linked to and influenced by powerful pro-Israeli politicians.\"\n\nThe Sitefinder database is a national database of mobile phone base stations in the UK. In September 2007 an Information Tribunal ruled that the public should have access to the database under the Freedom of Information Act 2000. However, as Ofcom has no legal power to force mobile phone operators to add information to the database, UK mobile phone operators consequently ceased updating it.\nOfcom appealed against the Freedom of Information Act ruling, together with one UK mobile operator – T-Mobile. This has led to accusations of the organisation's complicity with the mobile telecommunications industry in keeping information about mast locations secret. Ofcom's stated reasons for the appeal have ranged from \"preventing terrorist attacks\" on the sites of phone masts to \"protecting the intellectual property\" of the mobile telecommunications industry.\n\nIn April 2008, the High Court found in favour of the Information Commissioner's Office and over-ruled Ofcom's objections. Ofcom appealed to the Supreme Court, who in turn referred a point of law to the European Court of Justice, and then in October 2011 ordered that the matter should be remitted to the Information Rights Tribunal to reconsider the public interest balancing exercise. On 12 December 2012, the Information Rights Tribunal upheld its decision of 4 September 2007.\n\nIn 2017 Ofcom’s advisory committee for Wales awarded Deryn Consulting a contract to monitor the National Assembly for Wales and Welsh Government. It was subsequently reported that the contract had not been put out to tender and that Huw Roberts and Nerys Evans held positions for both Deryn and Ofcom. The contract was terminated and Ofcom concluded that it had broken its own procurement rules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52668952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52668952", "title": "Pantomime comics", "text": "Pantomime comics\n\nPantomime comics or a silent comic are comics which are delivered in mime. They make use of little to no dialogue, speech balloons or captions written underneath the images. Instead the stories or gags are told entirely through pictures.\n\nPantomime comics have the advantage of being easily understandable to people - like children - who are slow readers. The genre is also universally popular since translation is not required, lacking the usual language barriers. Sergio Aragonés, a famous artist in the field, once said in a 1991 interview with Comics Journal: \"What happens is like a supersimplification. “Something you can say with words, you have to eliminate all the words until it can be told in a little story without words. You just think a little longer. But it becomes rewarding in the end because everybody can understand your cartoons no matter what your nationality. And that, to me, has been always a big thing—to do cartoons that everybody can understand, every age, every nationality. It is different. It’s like in the theater. You have regular theater, and you have pantomime, like Marcel Marceau or Alejandro Jodorowsky. And I apply that to cartooning and it works.\". Pantomime comics tend to be popular in the gag-a-day comics genre, where they typically only exist of just three or four images per episode. But some graphic novels with longer narratives also make use of pantomime. This allows for a more visual experience, where the actual meaning of the events is left to the readers' own interpretation. Some famous pantomime comics artists are Sergio Aragonés, Guy Bara, Chaval, Henning Dahl Mikkelsen, Adolf Oberländer, Wil Raymakers, Otto Soglow , Gluyas Williams and Jim Woodring.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19767324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19767324", "title": "Peter Warlock (magician)", "text": "Peter Warlock (magician)\n\nPeter Warlock (born Alec William Bell; October 30, 1904 – December 17, 1995) was a semi-professional magician and publisher of the British magic magazines \"Pentagram\" (1946–59) and the \"New Pentagram\" (1969–89).\n\nIn 1960, he became the honorary president of the Paisley Magic Circle. Peter Warlock was also asked to accept the Honorary Life Presidency of the Blackpool Magic Club after the death of Edward Victor.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3112247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3112247", "title": "Radical Entertainment", "text": "Radical Entertainment\n\nRadical Entertainment Inc. is a Canadian video game developer based in Vancouver, British Columbia and a subsidiary of Activision. The studio was founded in 1991 by industry veterans Rory Armes and Dave Davis, as well as newcomer Ian Wilkinson. It is best known for developing three games in the \"Crash Bandicoot\" franchise, and the \"Prototype\" series of games.\n\nOn 28 June 2012, due to the financial failure of \"Prototype 2\", Radical Entertainment suffered a \"significant reduction\" in staff, and would from then on focus solely on supporting other Activision studios, while ceasing development on their own projects. Studio head Dr. David \"Dave\" Fracchia left the company in May 2014. Radical Entertainment most recently contributed to \"Destiny\" in 2014.\n\nRadical Entertainment was founded in 1991 by Rory Armes, Dave Davis, and Ian Wilkinson, of which Davis and Armes had previously worked at Vancouver-based Distinctive Software. The studio primarily developed Nintendo Entertainment System ports and adaptations of other video games, peaking at eight projects in 1994. Between 1997 and 1998, several employees left the studio to form Barking Dog Studios.\n\nIn 2003, Radical Entertainment opened a development division, 369 Interactive, which was set to develop multiple titles based on the \"CSI\" franchise, in partnership with Ubi Soft.\n\nAlthough Radical Entertainment developed few titles for Vivendi Universal Entertainment, the titles gained massive success and warranted the company's interest in the developers. In 2005, Vivendi acquired Radical Entertainment, however, as described by a former developer at Radical, the mood did not change much and Radical still operated as an independent game developing company. After being acquired by Vivendi, Radical began to make many games such as \"\" and \"\" while being published under Vivendi's Sierra Entertainment label. Radical was also given the license to continue development of the \"Crash Bandicoot\" franchise which was also published under Sierra Entertainment. Radical took over the development of \"Crash Tag Team Racing\" from Traveller's Tales. Due to the success of \"Crash Tag Team Racing\", Radical then started the development of \"Crash of the Titans\" and proclaimed that \"Crash was home at Radical\" stating that Radical would develop all further \"Crash\" games. The critical and commercial success of \"Crash of the Titans\" spawned one more sequel, \"\", which managed to both critically beat its predecessor as well as commercially. During the development of \"Crash: Mind Over Mutant\", Radical began working on its first original IP, \"Prototype\".\n\nIn 2008 it was announced that Vivendi Games and Activision were to form Activision Blizzard. The merger changed the mood of Radical and made it more like a first-party developer, instead of indie. At the time of the merge Radical was working on three different projects, one was an unnamed project and the other two were \"Crash: Mind Over Mutant\" and \"Prototype\". After the merger took place, about half of Radical's staff was cut under Activision Blizzards restructuring. This resulted in the cancellation of the unnamed project while development of Crash and Prototype were unaffected. As revealed later by a former developer at Radical, the unnamed project was \"Scarface 2\", which had been at development at Radical for over two years and had nearly gone gold, the developer stated that Activision canceled the project. \"Crash: Mind Over Mutant\" was the last games to be published under the Sierra Entertainment label, however some rare editions are given the Activision label instead. Nevertheless, Activision is given credit within the video game. \"Prototype\" was published only underneath the Activision label.\n\nAfter the release of \"Prototype\" in 2009 Radical did not officially announce any new projects, though it was revealed again by another former developer that Radical was working on another unnamed project, which had been in development for over a year. However, when Radical Entertainment experienced layoffs which resulted in over 60 people losing jobs, the project (Crash Landed) was cancelled by Activision. At the 2010 Spike Video Game Awards, Radical announced \"Prototype 2\", which was set to be their largest game.\n\nRadical Entertainment released the first details for \"Prototype 2\" in an interview with EGMi. In the same interview they revealed that they halted the development on an unknown game, possibly the rumoured \"Crash Bandicoot\" title, after the massive success of \"Prototype\". However, other candidates for the halted game were rumored to be an unknown Spider-Man game and a Jason Bourne game. This title was later revealed to be cancelled. In January 2011, an artist posted video footage showing the cancelled Jason Bourne game called \"Treadstone\". The game was cancelled when the Bourne license was reacquired by Ludlum Entertainment, and then licensed to Electronic Arts.\n\nTo celebrate the release of \"Prototype 2\", Radical Entertainment revealed that, to coincide, they were releasing RadNet. Similar to \"\", RadNet is an online gaming hub. RadNet contains competitive challenges which in turn give the player rewards for in-game use, Avatar accessories, development videos and Dynamic themes. An iPhone game, \"Protoslice\", was also released to coincide with the release of the game, the iPhone app had partial overseen development by Radical, whilst the actual game was not developed by them.\n\n\"Prototype 2\" was released in April 2012 as Radical Entertainment's biggest game launch ever. The game was well-received, with positive reviews on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 Versions, with the PC release coming at a later date in 2012. The sales for \"Prototype 2\" dominated the sales of games in April 2012, and achieved higher sales than \"Kinect Star Wars\" and \"\". Globally, \"Prototype 2\" sold less than a million copies in the two months following release.\n\nOn 28 June 2012, Activision announced that Radical Entertainment had seen a \"significant reduction in staff\", and that the studio \"will cease development of its own games going forward\", prompting media speculation that the developer had closed. The publisher cited \"Prototype 2\" failure to \"find a broad commercial audience\" as the reason behind Radical's closure. According to Activision, some employees will remain working for Radical Entertainment supporting other existing Activision Publishing projects, thus, while keeping the studio active, leaves them as a support team.\n\n"}
{"id": "36565483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36565483", "title": "San Francisco Drag King Contest", "text": "San Francisco Drag King Contest\n\nThe San Francisco Drag King Contest is an annual contest for drag kings held in San Francisco, California and founded by performer and producer, Fudgie Frottage. It is the biggest drag king contest in the world, and the longest running drag king competition in the U.S. The related International Drag King Community Extravaganza (IDKE) is the largest drag king performance event in the world but not a contest. The 22nd annual San Francisco Drag King Contest will be held September 7, 2017 at Oasis, 298 11th Street http://www.sfdragkingcontest.com/\n\nContestants are judged on talent, creativity, studliness, sex appeal, originality, humor, make-up/facial hair, and fashion by celebrity judges. The contestants main requirement is that they come from the Bay Area, otherwise the organizer notes \"we have gay women who identify as dykes or lesbians, we have transgender men, we have straight or bisexual women.\" Contestants vie for the title and a large gift packs from sponsors. In addition to various awards (Best lip-synching, Best costuming, etc.) a sole king and a group are named as the night's winners.\n\nThe audience tends to be in the gender-bender spirit with many of the mostly lesbian audience also cross-dressed in male attire with fake facial hair.\n\nDrag kings are mostly female performance artists who dress in masculine drag and personify male gender stereotypes as part of their routine. A typical show may incorporate dancing and singing, sometimes live or lip-synching to pre-recorded tracks. Drag kings often perform as exaggeratedly macho male characters, portray marginalized masculinities such as construction workers, rappers, or \"fag drag,\" or they will impersonate male celebrities like Elvis Presley, Michael Jackson, and Tim McGraw.\n\nIn 1993 The LAB produced a drag king contest at the DNA lounge hosted by Elvis Herselvis and Justin Bond, Stafford was declared the winner. The first annual S.F. Drag King contest was held in May 1994 at the San Francisco Eagle bar, in the SOMA district. It was a pageant and photo shoot that resulted in the city's first drag king calendar.\n\nThe following summer in 1995, as a part of a weekly alternative club called Klubstitute in the San Francisco's Mission district, the Mr. Klubstitute pageant took place. It included emcee Elvis Herselvis and the eight contestants were judges on fashion, talent, and question-and-answer. Jane Wiedlin and Gina Schock of The Go-Go's, the late Arturo Galster Justin Vivian Bond John Cameron Mitchell have appeared at S.F Drag King Contest\n\nOver the first twelve years the performances evolved from more spontaneous performances being rehearsed months in advanced and big production numbers.\n\nIn 2006 then supervisor Tom Ammiano and the S.F.Board of Supervisors presented a proclamation honoring the event. \nIn 2007 then-Senator Carol Migden and The California Senate presented a proclamation for SFDKC, an event \"that celebrates the diversity of genders and in appreciation of the creative performances that contribute and enrich San Francisco’s entertainment community.\"\n\nIn \"Female Masculinity\" Judith Halberstam notes that in the 1990s most major U.S. cities have some drag king acts as part of its queer club subculture.\n\nWinners are announced for individual kings, and starting in 2005 for troupes as well:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1654126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1654126", "title": "Spider (DC Comics)", "text": "Spider (DC Comics)\n\n\"Alias the Spider\" is a comic-book feature from the Golden Age of Comic Books that appeared in Quality Comics' \"Crack Comics\" for nearly three years, starting with issue #1 in 1940. He was created by writer-artist Paul Gustavson.\n\nThe original Golden Age version of the character is in the public domain; but the rights to all subsequent versions are currently owned by DC Comics.\n\nOnly one adventure of the Spider has ever been reprinted by DC Comics, which acquired the Quality Comics stable of characters when that company went out of business in 1956: the story from \"Crack Comics\" #25, in \"Detective Comics\" #441.\n\nThe Spider later made sporadic cameo appearances in \"All-Star Squadron\" and \"The Young All-Stars\". As a Quality Comics character, he was one of the heroes who went with Uncle Sam to protect Earth-X during World War II, becoming part of the Freedom Fighters. This was the fulfillment of a storyline that began in \"Justice League of America\" #107-108, which introduced most of Quality Comics' characters to the DC Universe. Previously only Plastic Man and Blackhawk had been used.\n\nThe Spider is playboy Tom Hallaway, who had tired of seeing criminals have their own way harassing and murdering honest citizens, so he adopts the guise of The Spider to settle the score. The Spider fights crime in a yellow shirt and blue shorts. He is armed with a bow and arrows, a special car known as the Black Widow, and the assistance of his valet Chuck (who helps Hallaway in both of his identities without anyone making any sort of connection). Hallaway uses a special arrow called the \"Spider's Seal\", which has a flat disc on the end; he shoots it at thugs' hands to disarm them.\n\nIn the continuity that followed DC Comics' \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" company-crossover storyline, the Spider is not heroic. Now given the full name Tom Ludlow Hallaway, he did not become the Spider out of an altruistic motive, but rather because he was a smuggler, kidnapper and murderer who used the guise of a superhero as a cover to help him eliminate the competition. Though originally based in St. Louis, Missouri, he is a member of the Ludlow clan from New England. The family inadvertently ran up against the Shade, a near-immortal sometime-villain introduced during the 1930s-1940s Golden Age of Comic Books. The family had a history of ill-gotten gains, having originally amassed its vast wealth by killing their partners in a business enterprise.\n\nInstead of working with the Freedom Fighters, this revised Spider is a member of the Seven Soldiers of Victory (also known as The Law's Legionnaires). The Crisis on Infinite Earths had erased the Golden Age Green Arrow and Speedy from existence, and the Spider helped fill the void in the team. Shining Knight, the Vigilante and his partner Stuff, the original Star-Spangled Kid and Stripesy, and the Crimson Avenger were on board with the Spider. As depicted in \"Stars and S.T.R.I.P.E.\" #9, during the final case of the Seven Soldiers, the Spider betrays them to their old enemy, the Iron Hand (who had created the cosmic menace known as the Nebula Man). The Spider kills the Vigilante's friend Billy Gunn, but is stopped by the Crimson Avenger's partner Wing, who stops the Nebula Man (though at the cost of his own life).\n\nWith the only people who knew him to be a criminal dead, the Spider continues his heroic facade. He becomes the hero-in-residence of Keystone City after the Flash retired in 1950. Unfortunately his Ludlow heritage catches up with him, as does the Shade. The Spider had been planning to face the Shade for quite a while. He had saved fragments of the Shade's shadow substance, intending to plant them at the scene of a double murder, that of Jay Garrick (the Golden Age Flash) and his wife Joan. The Spider hoped to lessen the Shade's power by keeping him captive near a roaring fireplace, but the added light only increased the shadows. The Shade creates arrow-casting monsters that shoot the Spider with black arrows. The Shade is able to prevent the Garricks' murders, but convinces his old enemy the Flash not to publicize his role.\n\nThe Spider's son, Lucas Ludlow-Dalt, takes up the bow and arrow (and his original yellow and blue costume) in the pages of \"Starman\", helping Culp, The Mist, the Rag Doll, Doctor Phosphorus, Solomon Grundy and several other villains lay siege to Opal City during the \"Grand Guignol\" storyline. This Spider had trained all his life for revenge on the Shade, and comes close to getting it. Matt O'Dare prevents the Spider from killing the Shade, and he is chased off to parts unknown. Lucas later attempts to kill Jack Knight in the final issue of \"Starman\" (and nearly kills Mason O'Dare, if not for the timely intervention of the spirit of the deceased magician Zatara). The Shade tells Jack Knight he is going to bring him in, since he is a Ludlow.\n\n\"Stars and S.T.R.I.P.E.\" #9 also depicted the beginning of vengeful activity for another Spider, though this may be the same Spider that was depicted in \"Starman\".\n\nThe Spider takes up his bow again in the pages of the most recent Hawkman series, facing off against Hawkman, Hawkgirl and Green Arrow. The Green Arrow shoots the Spider in his aiming eye with an arrow, hoping to end the criminal's career by maiming him. The Spider manages to re-learn archery from a new perspective (and far quicker than is usual for any normal human).\n\n\"Seven Soldiers\" #0 featured the advent of yet another Spider, although he spelled the name \"I, Spyder\". This character, named Thomas Ludlow Dalt, was one of the five heroes brought together by the Vigilante to form a new incarnation of the Seven Soldiers of Victory. Prior to this, he was abducted by the Seven Unknown Men of Slaughter Swamp after accepting a contract to kill them at their home base in the aforementioned bog. It was revealed that the Seven had hired him in order to lure him into their headquarters so they could hopefully prepare him to defeat the Sheeda (though one character criticised recruiting 'another schmuck with a bow and arrows'). Thomas was given several augmentations in terms of his abilities and gear which included new clothes, a jet-black helicopter with a black widow hourglass symbol on its base as well as 'cold blood and perfect aim'. This Spider is also the son of Thomas Hallaway, and the brother of Lucas, who usurps the identity by killing his brother. His glory is short lived however, as he is killed by the evil Sheeda and resurrected as their agent.\n\nHowever, this Spyder was not actually villainous like his father. After a failed assassination attempt on Bulleteer's life, Spyder was greeted by the ghost of Greg Saunders, the original Vigilante. What occurred during their confrontation is not shown but in \"Seven Soldiers\" #1, Spyder shoots the Sheeda queen Gloriana Tenebrae, knocking her from her floating castle, and she is hit and killed by a car driven by the Bulleteer.\n\n"}
{"id": "52038118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52038118", "title": "St James, Guernsey", "text": "St James, Guernsey\n\nSt James in Saint Peter Port, Guernsey, formerly called the church of St James-the-Less, has since 1985 become a concert and assembly hall providing the island with a unique and versatile venue.\n\nIn October 1815 Admiral James de Saumarez suggested the idea of building a church for use by the British garrison based in Guernsey where services could be held in English (as against French in other island churches). The church was designed by John Wilson and completed by 1818, at a cost of nearly £7,000.\n\nSketched in 1832 by J. M. W. Turner. Used as a chapel by nearby Elizabeth College.\n\nIn 1970 the church became redundant and started to decay until in 1981 \"The Friends of St James\" association was formed to restore and manage the building. The States of Guernsey agreed to pay for this restoration in 1983 and the building was officially re-opened on 5 July 1985 by HRH the Duke of Kent. The restoration of the building winning a Civic Trust Award in 1986. \n\nIn 2002 the Dorey Centre, comprising meeting rooms, café and administration offices, were completed, which gave the centre additional facilities such as exhibition space and to cater for formal dinners and weddings. The gallery was chosen to house the Guernsey Millennium Tapestry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1704468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704468", "title": "Temistocle Solera", "text": "Temistocle Solera\n\nTemistocle Solera (25 December 1815 – 21 April 1878) was an Italian opera composer and librettist.\n\nHe was born in Ferrara. He received his education at the Imperial College in Vienna and at the University of Pavia. Throughout his life he actively participated in anti-Austrian resistance. At one point, he was incarcerated for his activities. He completed several literary works, including the novel \"Michelino\", his style influenced by Alessandro Manzoni. He then found work as a librettist; his collaboration with the composer Giuseppe Verdi began in 1839 and lasted for a few years.\n\nSolera then found work as the impresario for the Royal Theatre in Madrid. He died in Milan in 1878.\n\n"}
{"id": "39732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39732", "title": "The Brady Bunch", "text": "The Brady Bunch\n\nThe Brady Bunch is an American sitcom created by Sherwood Schwartz that aired from September 26, 1969, to March 8, 1974, on ABC. The series revolves around a large blended family with six children. Considered one of the last of the old-style family sitcoms, the series aired for five seasons and, after its cancellation in 1974, went into syndication in September 1975. While the series was never a critical success or hit series during its original run, it has since become a popular staple in syndication, especially among children and teenaged viewers.\n\n\"The Brady Bunch\"s success in syndication led to several television reunion films and spin-off series: \"The Brady Bunch Hour\" (1976–77), \"The Brady Girls Get Married\" (1981), \"The Brady Brides\" (1981), \"A Very Brady Christmas\" (1988), and \"The Bradys\" (1990). In 1995, the series was adapted into a satirical comedy theatrical film titled \"The Brady Bunch Movie\", followed by \"A Very Brady Sequel\" in 1996. A second sequel, \"The Brady Bunch in the White House\", aired on Fox in November 2002 as a made-for-television film. In 1997, \"Getting Davy Jones\" (season three, episode 12) was ranked number 37 on \"TV Guide\"s 100 Greatest Episodes of All-Time. The durability of the show has resulted in it becoming widely recognized as an American cultural icon.\n\nIn 1966, following the success of his TV series \"Gilligan's Island\", Sherwood Schwartz conceived the idea for \"The Brady Bunch\" after reading in \"The Los Angeles Times\" that \"30% of marriages [in the United States] have a child or children from a previous marriage.\" He set to work on a pilot script for a series tentatively titled \"Mine and Yours\". Schwartz then developed the script to include three children for each parent. While Mike Brady is depicted as being a widower, Schwartz originally wanted the character of Carol Brady to have been a divorcée, but the network objected to this. A compromise was reached whereby Carol's marital status (whether she was divorced or widowed) was never directly revealed.\n\nSchwartz shopped the series to the \"big three\" television networks of the era. ABC, CBS, and NBC all liked the script, but each network wanted changes before they would commit to filming, so Schwartz shelved the project. Although similarities exist between the series and two 1968 theatrical release films, United Artists' \"Yours, Mine and Ours\" (starring Henry Fonda and Lucille Ball) and CBS's \"With Six You Get Eggroll\" (starring Brian Keith and Doris Day), the original script for \"The Brady Bunch\" predated the scripts for both of these films. Nonetheless, the outstanding success of the United Artists film (the 11th-highest-grossing film of 1968) was a factor in ABC's decision to order episodes for the series.\n\nAfter receiving a commitment for 13 weeks of television shows from ABC in 1968, Schwartz hired film and television director John Rich to direct the pilot, cast the six children from 264 interviews during that summer, and hired the actors to play the mother role, the father role, and the housekeeper role. As the sets were built on Paramount Television stage 5, adjacent to the stage where \"H.R. Pufnstuf\" was filmed by Sid and Marty Krofft, who later produced \"The Brady Bunch Hour\", the production crew prepared the back yard of a home in Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles, as the exterior location for the chaotic backyard wedding scene. Filming of the pilot began on Friday, October 4, 1968, and lasted eight days.\n\nMike Brady (Robert Reed), a widowed architect with three sons, Greg (Barry Williams), Peter (Christopher Knight), and Bobby (Mike Lookinland), marries Carol Martin (Florence Henderson), who herself has three daughters: Marcia (Maureen McCormick), Jan (Eve Plumb), and Cindy (Susan Olsen). The wife and daughters take the Brady surname. Included in the blended family are Mike's live-in housekeeper, Alice Nelson (Ann B. Davis), and the boys' dog, Tiger. (In the pilot episode, the girls also have a pet: a cat named Fluffy. Fluffy never appeared in any episodes following the pilot.) The setting is a large, suburban, two-story house designed by Mike, in a Los Angeles suburb.\n\nIn the first season, awkward adjustments, accommodations, gender rivalries, and resentments inherent in blended families dominate the stories. In an early episode, Carol tells Bobby that the only \"steps\" in their household lead to the second floor (in other words, that the family contains no \"stepchildren\", only \"children\"). Thereafter, the episodes focus on typical preteen and teenaged adjustments such as sibling rivalry, puppy love, self-image, character building, and responsibility. Noticeably absent was any political commentary, especially regarding the Vietnam War, which was being waged at its largest extent during the height of the series.\n\nThe regular cast appeared in an opening title sequence in which video head shots were arranged in a three-by-three grid, with each cast member appearing to look at the other cast members. The sequence used the then-new \"multi-dynamic image technique\" created by Canadian filmmaker Christopher Chapman; as a result of the popular attention it garnered in this sequence, it has been referred to in the press as \"the Brady Bunch effect\". In a 2010 issue of \"TV Guide\", the show's opening title sequence ranked number eight on a list of TV's top-10 credits sequences, as selected by readers.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe theme song, penned by Schwartz and Frank De Vol, and originally arranged, sung, and performed by Paul Parrish, Lois Fletcher, and John Beland under the name the Peppermint Trolley Company, quickly communicated to audiences that the Bradys were a blended family. The Brady family is shown in a tic-tac-toe board-style graphic with Carol on the top center, Alice in the middle block, and Mike on bottom middle. To the right are three blocks with the boys from the oldest on top to the youngest. To the left are three blocks with the girls from the oldest to the youngest. In season two, the Brady kids took over singing the theme song. In season three, the boys sing the first verse, girls sing the second verse, and all sing together for the third and last verse. The sequence was created and filmed by Howard A. Anderson, Jr., a visual effects pioneer who worked on the title sequences for many popular television series.\n\nThe end credits feature an instrumental version of the theme song's third verse. In season one, it was recorded by the Peppermint Trolley Company. From season two on, the theme was recorded in-house by Paramount musicians.\n\nThe house used in exterior shots, which bears little relation to the interior layout of the Bradys' home, is located in Studio City, within the city limits of Los Angeles. According to a 1994 article in the \"Los Angeles Times\", the San Fernando Valley house was built in 1959 and selected as the Brady residence because series creator Schwartz felt it looked like a home where an architect would live. A false window was attached to the front's A-frame section to give the illusion that it had two full stories. Contemporary establishing shots of the house were filmed with the owner's permission for the 1990 TV series \"The Bradys\". The owner refused to allow Paramount to restore the property to its 1969 look for \"The Brady Bunch Movie\" in 1995, so a facade resembling the original home was built around an existing house. The house was for sale in 2018 with an asking price of $1.885 million, and television network HGTV outbid seven others for it. HGTV plans to expand the home for \"A Very Brady Renovation\", though it will look the same from the street. The six actors who played the TV children posed for a photo in front on November 1, 2018. \n\nIn the series, the address of the house was given as 4222 Clinton Way (as read aloud by Carol from an arriving package in the first-season episode entitled \"Lost Locket, Found Locket\"). Although no city was ever specified, it was presumed from references to the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Los Angeles Rams, and a Hollywood movie studio, among many others, that the Bradys lived in Southern California, most likely Los Angeles or one of its suburbs.\n\nThe interior of the Brady house was used at least three times for other Paramount shows, twice for \"Mannix\" and once for \"\", while \"The Brady Bunch\" was in production. In the case of \"Mission: Impossible\", the Brady furniture was also used. A re-creation of the Brady house was constructed for the \"X-Files\" episode \"Sunshine Days\", which also revolved around \"The Brady Bunch\".\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nRatings data prior to 1972 is scarce for shows which did not place in the Top 30. Beginning in 2017, TV Ratings Guide began publishing vintage television ratings as they became readily available from old newspaper publishings. \"The Brady Bunch\" never achieved high ratings during its primetime run (never placing in the top 30 during the five years it aired) and was cancelled in 1974 after five seasons and 117 episodes; it was cancelled shortly after the series crossed the minimum threshold for syndication. At that point in the story, Greg graduated from high school and was about to enroll in college.\n\nWhen the episodes were repeated in syndication, they usually appeared every weekday in late-afternoon or early-evening slots on local stations. This enabled children to watch the episodes when they came home from school, making the program widely popular and giving it iconic status among those who were too young to have seen the series during its primetime run.\n\nAccording to Schwartz, the reason the show has become a part of Americana, even though other shows have run longer, were rated higher, and were critically acclaimed, is that the episodes were written from the standpoint of the children and addressed situations that children could understand (such as boy trouble, sibling rivalry, and meeting famous people such as a rock star or baseball players). The Bradys are also portrayed as a harmonious family, though they do have times when one of the children does not cooperate with his or her parents or the other children.\n\nSince its first airing in syndication in September 1975, an episode of the show has been broadcast somewhere in the United States and abroad every day of the year. Episodes were also shown on ABC daytime from July 9, 1973 to April 18, 1975 and from June 30 to August 29, 1975, at 11:30 a.m. EST/10:30 CST.\n\nThe show was aired on TBS starting in the 1980s until 1997, Nick at Nite in 1995 (for a special event), and again from 1998 to 2003 (and briefly during the spring of 2012), TeenNick (under the channel's former name The N) from March to April 2004, on TV Land on and off from 2002 to 2015, Nick Jr. (as part of the NickMom block from 2012 to 2013), and Hallmark Channel from January to June 2013 and again starting September 5, 2016, until September 30, 2016.\n\nEpisodes in the syndicated version have been edited for time to allow for commercial breaks, down from the original version of 25–26 minutes.\n\nSince its launch as a national network in 2010, the Weigel Broadcasting owned classic TV network MeTV airs a weekly two-hour block of the show every Sunday morning/early afternoon promoted as the \"Brady Bunch Brunch\". In the years following, MeTV has also periodically aired the series weekday mornings. Decades - a sister network of MeTV - also occasionally airs the show. \n\nOnline, the show is available on Hulu and CBS All Access, though not all episodes are available for either service.\n\nDuring the series' original run, the Brady kids recorded several albums on Paramount's record label. While session musicians provided backing, the actors from the series provided their own singing voices (which was not always the case for early 1970s television crossover acts). None of the albums or singles from The Brady Kids ever became hits on any national music charts.\n\nAlso includes solo singles as indicated.\n\nSeveral spin-offs and sequels to the original series have been made, featuring all or most of the original cast. These include another sitcom, an animated series, a variety show, television movies, a dramatic series, a stage play, and theatrical movies:\nA final-season \"Brady Bunch\" episode, \"Kelly's Kids\", was intended as a pilot for a prospective spin-off series of the same name. Ken Berry starred as Ken Kelly, a friend and neighbor of the Bradys, who with his wife Kathy (Brooke Bundy) adopted three orphaned boys of different racial backgrounds. One of the adopted sons was played by Todd Lookinland, the younger brother of Mike Lookinland. While \"Kelly's Kids\" was not subsequently picked up as a full series, producer Sherwood Schwartz reworked the basic premise for the short-lived 1980s sitcom \"Together We Stand\" starring Elliott Gould and Dee Wallace.\n\nA 22-episode animated Saturday morning cartoon series, produced by Filmation and airing on ABC from September 1972 to August 1974, is about the Brady kids having various adventures. The family's adults were never seen or mentioned, and the \"home\" scenes were in a very large, well-appointed tree house. Several animals were regular characters, including two non-English-speaking pandas (Ping and Pong), a talking bird (Marlon) which could do magic, and an ordinary pet dog (Mop Top, not Tiger). The first 17 episodes featured the voices of all six of the original child actors from the show, but Barry Williams, Maureen McCormick, and Christopher Knight were replaced for the last five episodes due to a contract dispute.\n\nOn November 28, 1976, a two-hour television special entitled \"The Brady Bunch Variety Hour\" aired on ABC. Eve Plumb was the only regular cast member from the original show who declined to be in the series and the role of Jan was recast with Geri Reischl. Produced by Sid and Marty Krofft, the sibling team behind \"H.R. Pufnstuf\", \"Donny and Marie\", and other variety shows and children's series of the era, the show was intended to air every fifth week in the same slot as \"The Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew Mysteries\", but ended up being scheduled sporadically throughout the season, leading to inconsistent ratings and its inevitable cancellation.\n\nIn 2009, \"Brady Bunch\" cast member Susan Olsen, with Lisa Sutton, published a book, \"Love to Love You Bradys\", which dissects and celebrates the \"Variety Hour\" as a cult classic.\n\nA TV reunion movie called \"The Brady Girls Get Married\" was produced in 1981. Although scheduled to be shown in its original full-length movie format, NBC at the last minute divided it into half-hour segments and showed one part a week for three weeks, and the fourth week debuted a spin-off sitcom titled \"The Brady Brides\". The reunion movie featured the entire original cast; this proved to be the only time the entire cast worked together on a single project following the cancellation of the original series. The movie's opening credits featured the season-one \"Grid\" and theme song, with the addition of \"The Brady Girls Get Married\" title. The movie shows what the characters had been doing since the original series ended: Mike is still an architect, Carol is a real-estate agent, Greg is a doctor, Marcia is a fashion designer, Peter is in the Air Force, Jan is also an architect, Bobby and Cindy are in college, and Alice has married Sam. Eventually, they all reunite for Marcia and Jan's double wedding.\n\n\"The Brady Brides\" features Maureen McCormick (Marcia) and Eve Plumb (Jan) in regular roles. The series begins with Marcia and Jan and their new husbands buying a house and living together. The clashes between Jan's uptight and conservative husband, Philip Covington III (a college professor in science who is several years older than Jan, played by Ron Kuhlman) and Marcia's slovenly and more bohemian husband, Wally Logan (a fun-loving salesman for a large toy company, played by Jerry Houser), were the pivot on which many of the stories were based, not unlike \"The Odd Couple\". Florence Henderson and Ann B. Davis also appeared regularly. Ten episodes were aired before the sitcom was cancelled. This was the only Brady show in sitcom form to be filmed in front of a live studio audience. Bob Eubanks guest-starred as himself in an episode where the two couples appear on \"The Newlywed Game\".\n\nThroughout the late 1980s and 1990s, \"The Brady Girls Get Married\" was rerun on various networks in its original full-length movie format.\n\nA second TV reunion movie, \"A Very Brady Christmas\", aired in December 1988 on CBS and featured all the regular cast (except Susan Olsen, who was on her honeymoon at the time of filming; the role of Cindy was played by Jennifer Runyon), as well as three grandchildren, Peter's girlfriend, Valerie, and the spouses of Greg, Marcia, and Jan (Nora, Wally, and Phillip, respectively). The Nielsen ratings for \"A Very Brady Christmas\" were the highest of any television movie that season for CBS.\n\nDue to the success of \"A Very Brady Christmas\", CBS asked \"Brady Bunch\" creator Sherwood Schwartz and his son Lloyd to create a new series for the network. According to Lloyd Schwartz, his father and he initially balked at the idea because they felt a new series would harm the Brady franchise. They finally relented because CBS was \"desperate for programming\". A new series featuring the Brady clan was created entitled \"The Bradys\". All the original \"Brady Bunch\" cast members returned for the series, except for Maureen McCormick (Marcia), who was replaced with Leah Ayres.\n\nAs with \"A Very Brady Christmas\", \"The Bradys\" also featured elements of comedy and drama and featured storylines that were of a more serious nature than that of the original series and its subsequent spin-offs. Lloyd Schwartz later said he compared \"The Bradys\" to another dramedy of the time, \"thirtysomething\". The two-hour series premiere episode aired on February 9, 1990, at 9 pm on CBS and initially drew respectable ratings. Subsequent episodes were moved to 8 pm, where ratings quickly declined. Due to the decline, CBS cancelled the series after six episodes.\n\nThe \"Day by Day\" episode titled \"A Very Brady Episode\" (February 5, 1989), on NBC, reunited six of the original \"The Brady Bunch\" cast members: Robert Reed, Florence Henderson, Ann B. Davis, Christopher Knight, Mike Lookinland and Maureen McCormick \n\nIn November 2018, it was announced that Christopher Knight, Mike Lookinland, Maureen McCormick, Susan Olsen, Eve Plumb, and Barry Williams would be reuniting for the upcoming 2019 HGTV series \"A Very Brady Renovation\", which will follow a full overhaul of the house used in the sitcom’s exterior shots.\n\nTwenty years following the conclusion of the original series, a film adaptation, \"The Brady Bunch Movie,\" went into production and was released in 1995 from Paramount Pictures. The film is set in the present day (1990s) and the Bradys, still living their lives as if it were the 1970s, are unfamiliar with their surroundings. It stars Gary Cole and Shelley Long as Mike and Carol Brady, with Christopher Daniel Barnes (Greg), Christine Taylor (Marcia), Paul Sutera (Peter), Jennifer Elise Cox (Jan), Jesse Lee (Bobby), Olivia Hack (Cindy), Henriette Mantel (Alice), and cameo appearances from Ann B. Davis as a long-haul truck driver and Florence Henderson as Carol's mother.\n\nA sequel, \"A Very Brady Sequel\", was released in 1996. The cast of the first film returned for the sequel. A second sequel, \"The Brady Bunch in the White House,\" was made-for-television and aired on Fox in 2002. Gary Cole and Shelley Long returned for the third film, while the Brady kids and Alice were recast.\n\nParamount Home Entertainment released all five seasons on DVD in Region 1 from 2005 to 2006, before CBS Home Entertainment took over DVD rights to the Paramount Television library (though CBS DVD releases are still distributed by Paramount). Paramount/CBS has released the series on DVD in other countries as well.\n\nOn April 3, 2007, CBS Home Entertainment and Paramount Home Entertainment released the complete series box set, which includes the TV movies \"A Very Brady Christmas\" and \"The Brady 500\" (an episode of \"The Bradys\"), as well as two episodes of \"The Brady Kids\" animated series. The box art for this set features green shag carpeting and 1970s-style wood paneling.\n\n8 years later on April 7, 2015, CBS Home Entertainment and Paramount Home Entertainment re-released the complete series box set, a repackaged version at a lower price, but it does not include the bonus disc that was part of the original complete series release.\n\nThe TV movie \"A Very Brady Christmas\" was released as a stand-alone DVD in Region 1 on October 10, 2017.\n\nThe first two seasons are also available on Region 2 DVD for the UK, with audio in English and subtitle choices in Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, or Finnish.\n\nThe series has also been released on VHS, but the VHS tapes have gone out of print.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238966", "title": "Warrior", "text": "Warrior\n\nA warrior is a person specializing in combat or warfare, especially within the context of a tribal or clan-based warrior culture society that recognizes a separate warrior class or caste. \n\nWarriors seem to have been present in the earliest pre-state societies. Along with hunting, war was considered to be a definitive male activity. No matter the pretext for combat, it seemed to have been a rite of passage for a boy to become a man. Warriors took upon costumes and equipment that seemed to have a symbolic significance; combat itself would be preceded by ritual or sacrifice. Men of fighting age often lived apart in order to encourage bonding, and would ritualise combat in order to demonstrate individual prowess among one another. Most of the basic weapons used by warriors appeared before the rise of most hierarchical systems. Bows and arrows, clubs, spears, and other edged weapons were in widespread use. However with the new findings of metallurgy, the aforementioned weapons had grown in effectiveness. \n\nWhen the first hierarchical systems evolved 5000 years ago, the gap between the rulers and the ruled had increased. Making war to extend the outreach of their territories, rulers often forced men from lower orders of society into the military role. This had been the first use of professional soldiers —a distinct difference from the warrior communities.\nThe warrior ethic in many societies later became the preserve of the ruling class. Egyptian pharaohs would depict themselves in war chariots, shooting at enemies, or smashing others with clubs. Fighting was considered a prestigious activity, but only when associated with status and power. European mounted knights would often feel contempt for the foot soldiers recruited from lower classes. Even in meso American societies of pre-Columbian America, the elite aristocratic soldiers remained separated from the lower classes of stone-throwers. \n\nIn contrast to the belief of the caste and clan based warrior who saw war as a place to attain valor and glory, warfare was a practical matter that could change the course of history. History always showed that men of lower orders who, provided that they were practically organized and equipped, almost always outfought warrior elites through an individualistic and humble approach to war. This was the approach of the Roman legions who had only the incentive of promotion, as well as a strict level of discipline. When Europe's standing armies of the 17th and 18th centuries developed, discipline was at the core of their training. Officers had the role of transforming men that they viewed as lower class to become reliable fighting men. \n\nInspired by the Ancient Greek ideals of the 'citizen soldier', many European societies during the Renaissance began to incorporate conscription and raise armies from the general populace. A change in attitude was noted as well, as officers were told to treat their soldiers with moderation and respect. For example, men who fought in the American Civil War often elected their own officers. With the mobilization of citizens in the armies sometimes reaching the millions, societies often made efforts in order to maintain or revive the warrior spirit. This trend continues to the modern day. \nDue to the heroic connotations of the term \"warrior\", this metaphor is especially popular in publications advocating or recruiting for a country's military.\n\nWhile the warrior class in tribal societies is typically all-male, there are some exceptions on record where women (typically unmarried, young women) formed part of the warrior class, particularly in pre-modern Japan.\n\nA purported group of fighting women is the legendary Amazons, recorded in Classical Greek mythology. Similarly, the Valkyries are depicted in Norse mythology, particularly the Icelandic Etta. During the Viking Age a type of female warrior was the \"skjaldmær\", or shieldmaiden. Hard historical evidence of non-mythological female warrior classes have been harder to come by, but some studies have been done (e.g. Birka warrior). However, groups of female warriors typically belong in folkelore and mythology, rather than in reality where there were only exceptional cases of women engaging directly in combat roles.\n\nA 2017 study led by Charlotte Hedenstierna-Jonson produced DNA results confirming the remains excavated in Birka, Sweden, were a female warrior. However, prominent historian and viking specialists, such as Judith Jesch, have disputed the findings, calling their thinking \"sloppy\" and citing issues of academic validity, including referential errors, a lack of involvement from linguistics experts, and no physical evidence that the skeleton in question actually engaged in any battle. Meanwhile, archaeologist Anna Kjellström, who worked with Hedenstierna-Jonson on the initial study, voiced her own doubts claiming it was clear the \"material and the contextual information given... did not match the data\".\n\nMany women not only fought on the field but led entire hosts of men within Pictish, Brythonic, and Irish tribes in Pre-Christian culture. Boudicca of the Iceni is a famous example of a female leader of warriors, who rebelled against Roman rule in Britain. Tomoe Gozen is celebrated in Japanese history as a woman samurai General in the 12th Century. Joan of Arc, nicknamed \"The Maid of Orléans\" is considered a heroine of France for her role during the Lancastrian phase of the Hundred Years' War. These women survive in few historical testimonies like those of the Byzantine Empire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53759067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53759067", "title": "Where the Wind Settles", "text": "Where the Wind Settles\n\nWhere the Wind Settles is a 2015 Taiwanese historical period film directed by Wang Toon. Spanning the years from 1949 to 2010, the film chronicles the lives of several mainland Chinese people who resettled in Taiwan near the end of the Chinese Civil War.\n\nDuring the last phase of the Huaihai Campaign in 1949, injured Republic of China Army captain Sheng Peng (Tony Yang) and subordinate soldiers Huang Te-shun (Li Xiaochuan) and Fan Chung-yueh (George Hu) retreat when it becomes clear the battle is irretrievably lost. As they trek across the countryside in northern Jiangsu, they encounter an abandoned boy named \"Dog Two\" (Zou Xuanqi), whom they carry along. They rejoin the nationalist troops and soon board a ship bound for Keelung, Taiwan. On board they meet Chiu Hsiang (Bea Hayden) and her intellectual family.\n\nIn Taiwan, Sheng is discharged for his injury, while Huang and Fan desert the army to join him. The trio squeeze into a flat in a military dependents' village in Taipei, but military police soon arrive in the village to catch deserters like Huang and Fan, who face possible execution. Their crisis is solved when Sheng bribes government clerks to acquire National ID Cards. They begin to work, and the boy—now named Feng-hsien—starts school. Sheng re-encounters Chiu Hsiang, who offers to teach Feng-hsien piano lessons at her residence. Through the lessons, Sheng and Chiu Hsiang grow closer, as do Feng-hsien and Chiu Hsiang's baby sister Chiu Mei. \n\nBoth Huang and Fan fancy Lin Ah-yu (Ko Chia-yen), a Taiwanese woman who barely speaks Mandarin. Despite their language barrier, Huang and Lin fall in love and get married. Fan, very unhappy, moves out to live in the mountains in the south. Years later, Huang dies in a fire trying to save a child and Fan comes back to mourn him.\n\nSheng, having left his wife in mainland China for more than a decade, is by now secretly in love with Chiu Hsiang. Chiu Hsiang tells Sheng she will go to the United States to marry Chang Ming-jui, an old acquaintance. They exchange gifts, and when they sit down to talk on another ocacsion, Chiu Hsiang confesses her love for him. Their new-found happiness is abruptly terminated when Chiu's professor father is taken away by secret police for alleged dissidence. As Chang Ming-jui has many \"connections\" who may secure her father's safety, Chiu Hsiang has no choice but to leave Sheng.\n\nSheng is heartbroken, and it hasn't escaped Lin Ah-yu's attention. Already widowed for a few years but still sharing the same hut (but not the same room) as he, Lin secretly loves Sheng. But when she confesses her love, he rejects her. She moves out the next day.\n\nIn the 1970s, Feng-hsien (Mason Lee) and Chiu Mei (Amber Kuo) resume their friendship which soon blossoms into love. Sheng Peng meets Lin by accident, and invites her to Feng-hsien and Chiu Mei's wedding. During the wedding she also meets Chiu Hsiang who now lives in the United States. Sheng Peng dies of a heart attack in 1987, the same year Taiwan ends its White Terror (and lifts the travel ban to mainland China). In 2010, Sheng Feng-hsien (Tao Chuan-cheng), already an old man, travels to Sheng Peng's hometown in Shandong to meet with Sheng Peng's brother-in-law (Fan Kuang-yao). He learns that Sheng Peng's wife Ma Chiao-lin (Jiang Ruijia) and baby died within a year after Sheng Peng went to Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "25180253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25180253", "title": "ČT HD", "text": "ČT HD\n\nČT HD was the high-definition TV channel from Česká televize. ČT HD broadcast programming from ČT1, ČT2 and ČT4, via IPTV, digital terrestrial (in several areas only) and satellite (via Astra 1E – DVB-S standard, since spring 2010 via the new Astra 3B – DVB-S2 standard).\n\n"}
