{"id": "39580391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39580391", "title": "Academic Health Science Networks", "text": "Academic Health Science Networks\n\nAcademic Health Science Networks (AHSNs) are membership organisations within the NHS in England. They were created in May 2013 with the aim of bringing together health services, and academic and industry members. Their stated purpose is to improve patient outcomes and generate economic benefits for the UK by promoting and encouraging the adoption of innovation in healthcare. It is too early to judge the extent to which they are effective in performing their role.\n\nA report in 2008 by Lord Ara Darzi noted that the NHS was poor at innovating, and suggested wider collaboration between industry, education and all aspects of healthcare. The NHS is one of the world's largest employers and with the UK's spending on healthcare at over £140b in 2010 or 9.6% of national GDP, it is a key component of the national economy. There is a generally recognised need to improve the NHS's ability to identify and adopt innovation.\n\nAHSNs were first proposed by name in the report Innovation Health and Wealth by Sir David Nicholson, Chief Executive of NHS England, and launched by the Prime Minister, David Cameron. A request for expressions of interest was issued in June 2012 and, on 23 May 2013, the 15 designated AHSNs were formally announced. They are regional, with non-overlapping territories covering the whole of England. \n\nAHSNs take their place in the \"fragmented cluttered and confusing\" landscape of NHS innovation. As part of the \"Sunset Review\" a number of initiatives closed in 2013 including the NHS National Innovation Centre, NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement, and Health Innovation and Education Clusters (HIECs). There is still a range of currently active initiatives including NHS Innovation Hubs, NHS Supply Chain Innovation and NHS Improvement.\n\nCore funding will come from NHS England and work was \"in hand to identify the funding\" when expressions of interest were invited. A briefing paper assumed funding to be in the region of £2 per head of population served. With a population averaging 3m people, a typical AHSN might have expected roughly £6m per AHSN per year. These figures reflect early expectations but were neither clarified nor confirmed with the designation announcement.\n\nWhen contracts were signed with NHS England in November 2013, the 15 AHSNs shared around £60 million of funding.\n\nAlthough their purpose is clear, the structure and approach of individual AHSNs is a matter for local decision. This is apparent in the contrasting approaches taken and the variety of opinions expressed by network founders.\n\nAs membership organisations, AHSNs do not have any direct authority over their members, but Innovation Health and Wealth states: \"all NHS organisations will aspire to be affiliated to their local AHSN where the AHSN will operate as a gateway for the NHS on innovation and working with the life sciences industry on the evaluation, commercialisation and rapid adoption of health technologies\". They will be seen to be successful if and only if they can demonstrably improve the rate of adoption of medical technologies and ICTs.\n\nIn April 2014 it emerged that NHS England’s 2014-15 business plan, showed that AHSNs would receive £53.6m this financial year, a 5 per cent cut on last year’s budget. However, it represents a larger 23 per cent cut on the £70m NHS England announced in May 2013. A senior AHSN figure told the Health Service Journal that NHS England risked “castrating” the programme by cutting the budget and by a perceived lack of promotion in the networks. “They are trying to save a comparatively small amount of money [by cutting the budget] but in doing so they risk castrating the AHSNs.Commissioners are not going to sign up to us if they are thinking that we are not going to be around in two years’ time.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23588906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23588906", "title": "Adulterated food", "text": "Adulterated food\n\nAdulteration is a legal term meaning that a food product fails to meet the legal standards. One form of adulteration is an addition of another substance to a food item in order to increase the quantity of the food item in raw form or prepared form, which may result in the loss of actual quality of food item. These substances may be either available food items or non-food items. Among meat and meat products some of the items used to adulterate are water or ice, carcasses, or carcasses of animals other than the animal meant to be consumed.\n\nHistorians have recognized cases of food adulteration in Ancient Rome and the Middle Ages. Contemporary accounts of adulteration date from the 1850s to the present day.\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), regulates and enforces laws on food safety as well as Food Defense. The FDA provides some technical definitions of adulterated food in various United States laws.\n\n\nThe Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic (FD&C) Act 1988) provides that food is \"adulterated\" if it meets any one of the following criteria:\n\n\nFood also meets the definition of adulteration if: \n\nFurther, food is considered adulterated if: \n\nThe Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act of 1957 contain similar provisions for meat and poultry products. [21 U.S.C. § 453(g), 601(m).\n\nGenerally, if a food contains a poisonous or deleterious substance that may render it injurious to health, it is considered to be adulterated. For example, apple cider contaminated with E. coli and Brie cheese contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes are adulterated. There are two exceptions to this general rule. First, if the poisonous substance is inherent or naturally occurring and its quantity in the food does not ordinarily render it injurious to health, the food will not be considered adulterated. Thus, a food that contains a natural toxin at very low levels that would not ordinarily be harmful (for instance, small amounts of amygdalin in apricot kernels) is not adulterated.\n\nSecond, if the poisonous or deleterious substance is unavoidable and is within an established tolerance, regulatory limit, or action level, the food will not be deemed to be adulterated. Tolerances and regulatory limits are thresholds above which a food will be considered adulterated. They are binding on FDA, the food industry, and the courts. Action levels are limits at or above which FDA may regard food as adulterated. They are not binding on FDA. FDA has established numerous action levels (for example, one part per million methylmercury in fish), which are set forth in its booklet Action Levels for Poisonous or Deleterious Substances in Human Food and Animal Feed.\n\nIf a food contains a poisonous substance in excess of a tolerance, regulatory limit, or action level, mixing it with \"clean\" food to reduce the level of contamination is not allowed. The deliberate mixing of adulterated food with good food renders the finished product adulterated (FDA, Compliance Policy Guide [CPG § 555.200]).\n\nFilth and extraneous material include any objectionable substances in foods, such as foreign matter (for example, glass, metal, plastic, wood, stones, sand, cigarette butts), undesirable parts of the raw plant material (such as stems, pits in pitted olives, pieces of shell in canned oysters), and filth (namely, mold, rot, insect and rodent parts, excreta, decomposition). Under a strict reading of the FD&C Act, any amount of filth in a food would render it adulterated. FDA regulations, however, authorize the agency to issue Defect Action Levels (DALs) for natural, unavoidable defects that at low levels do not pose a human health hazard [21 C.F.R. § 110.110]. These DALs are advisory only; they do not have the force of law and do not bind FDA. DALs are set forth in FDA's Compliance Policy Guides and are compiled in the FDA and Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN) Defect Action Level Handbook.\n\nIn most cases, DALs are food-specific and defect-specific. For example, the DAL for insect fragments in peanut butter is an average of thirty or more insect fragments per 100 grams (g) [CPG § 570.300]. In the case of hard or sharp foreign objects, the DAL, which is based on the size of the object and the likelihood it will pose a risk of choking or injury, applies to all foods (see CPG § 555.425).\n\nA food is adulterated if it omits a valuable constituent or substitutes another substance, in whole or in part, for a valuable constituent (for instance, olive oil diluted with tea tree oil); conceals damage or inferiority in any manner (such as fresh fruit with food coloring on its surface to conceal defects); or any substance has been added to it or packed with it to increase its bulk or weight, reduce its quality or strength, or make it appear bigger or of greater value than it is (for example, scallops to which water has been added to make them heavier).\n\nThe fact that a food is contaminated with pathogens (harmful microorganisms such as bacteria, viruses, or protozoa) may, or may not, render it adulterated. Generally, for ready-to-eat foods, the presence of pathogens will render the food adulterated. For example, the presence of Salmonella on fresh fruits or vegetables or in ready-to-eat meat or poultry products (such as luncheon meats) will render those products adulterated.\n\nFor meat and poultry products, which are regulated by USDA, the rules are more complicated. Ready-to-eat meat and poultry products contaminated with pathogens, such as Salmonella or Listeria monocytogenes, are adulterated. (Note that hotdogs are considered ready-to-eat products.) For raw meat or poultry products, the presence of pathogens will not always render a product adulterated (because raw meat and poultry products are intended to be cooked, and proper cooking should kill pathogens). Raw poultry contaminated with Salmonella is not adulterated. However, USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) has ruled that raw meat or poultry products contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 are adulterated. This is because normal cooking methods may not reduce E. coli O157:H7 below infectious levels. E. coli O157:H7 is the only pathogen that is considered an adulterant when present in raw meat or poultry products.\n\nIf a food is adulterated, FDA and FSIS have a broad array of enforcement tools.They are of various types. These include seizing and condemning the product, detaining imported product, enjoining persons from manufacturing or distributing the product, or requesting a recall of the product. Enforcement action is usually preceded by a Warning Letter from FDA to the manufacturer or distributor of the adulterated product. In the case of an adulterated meat or poultry product, FSIS has certain additional powers. FSIS may suspend or withdraw federal inspection of an official establishment. Without federal inspection, an establishment may not produce or process meat or poultry products, and therefore must cease operations. With the exception of infant formula, neither FDA nor FSIS has the authority to require a company to recall an adulterated food product. However, the ability to generate negative publicity gives them considerable powers of persuasion.\n\nState regulators generally have similar enforcement tools at their disposal to prevent the manufacture and distribution of adulterated food. In addition, many states have the authority to immediately embargo adulterated food and to impose civil fines. Federal agencies often will coordinate with state or local authorities to remove unsafe food from the market as quickly as possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "22971609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22971609", "title": "Adventist Health Castle", "text": "Adventist Health Castle\n\nAdventist Health Castle is a 160-bed medical center located in Windward Oahu. It provides a full range of services, including: acute care, 24-hour emergency services, outpatient and home care, wellness and lifestyle medicine, chemotherapy clinic, Surgical Weight Loss Institute, Hawaii Muscular Dystrophy Clinic, Joint Care Center, birth center and interventional cardiology.\n\nIn 1953, the Windward Community Association began a campaign for a hospital to be established in Kailua, Oahu, Hawaii. Dr. Robert Chung, a physician and Mrs. Carolyn Rankin, organizer of a women’s auxiliary, were key leaders in the campaign. Ten acres of land were donated for a building site, the community raised $170,000 to fund the project and the Seventh-day Adventist Church donated $600,000. Although support was received from both the Governor’s Hospital Advisory Council and the 30th Territorial Legislature, the Board of Health refused to designate the area as a separate hospital zone. Their refusal prevented any federal funds from being available.\n\nTwo incidents emphasized the need for a local hospital. The first involved a collapsed roof that injured five men and forced them to travel to Honolulu to receive medical attention. The second involved a five-year-old girl who choked to death on a pill. Doctors agreed that had surgery facilities been closer, the child might have lived. Within months the State Board of Health gave their approval and access to federal funds became available.\n\nOn January 16, 1963, Castle Memorial Hospital opened. It was named in honor of Harold Kainalu Long Castle, who donated the land. The $2 million facility opened with 72 beds and 14 bassinets. In 1983, it became known as Castle Medical Center (CMC) due to the growth and success of the outpatient services and programs. CMC joined Adventist Health on January 28, 1973. \n\nIn 1986, a decision was made to expand and a $8.7 million renovation was completed in 1989. This renovation expanded operating suites, equipment was updated and the kitchen, lobby, chapel and gift shop was enlarged. The state’s first Labor-Delivery-Recovery-Post Partum rooms were also added. In 2017, Castle Medical Center changed its name to Adventist Health Castle. \n\nAdventist Health Castle is part of Adventist Health, a health care organization headquartered in Roseville, California. Adventist Health represents regional delivery networks spanning California, Hawaii, Oregon and Washington. The networks comprise 85 distinct business units including 20 acute care facilities—controlled, managed or leased—with more than 3,000 beds, 17,000 employees, numerous clinics and outpatient facilities, medical foundations and 18 home health agencies.\n\nJuly 16, 2009—KHON2--\"Heart Pacemakers get Modern Upgrade\" by Manolo Morales \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48884656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48884656", "title": "Andri Steinþór Björnsson", "text": "Andri Steinþór Björnsson\n\nAndri Steinþór Björnsson (born 11 January 1973) is a clinical psychologist and an associate professor of psychology at the University of Iceland. In addition to his work on body dysmorphic syndrome, he has hosted a series of radio programs on science and the scientific method broadcast by RÚV [e. The Icelandic National Broadcasting Service], as well as editing and writing books on science aimed at the general public.\n\nFollowing his Bachelors and master's degrees in psychology at the University of Iceland in 1998 and 2003, Björnsson attended the University of Colorado at Boulder where he wrote a master´s thesis on depression amongst college students and received his PhD degree in 2009 based on his doctoral thesis, the topic of which was a randomized clinical trial employing cognitive behavioral group therapy. He worked as a clinical intern at McLean Hospital/Harvard Medical School where he developed an interest in body dysmorphic disorder, and joined a post-doctoral fellowship at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University where he participated in clinical studies of body dysmorphic disorder.\n\nIn addition to his published work on body dysmorphic syndrome and other research in psychology, Björnsson has written or edited two books aimed at a general audience on the history of science and the scientific method, and recently co-edited a book honoring the life and work of Vilhjálmur Rafnsson.\nBjörnsson joined the faculty of the University of Iceland in 2011 as an associate professor, and was promoted to his current position as associate professor in 2014. His current research focuses on general anxiety disorders, social anxiety disorders, and panic disorders, with particular interest in obsessive and compulsive behaviour within these disorders, in addition to his work on body dysmorphic disorder.\nIn 1998, Björnsson hosted a seven part series on the \"Most important scientific theories of our time\" broadcast by RÚV [e. The Icelandic National Broadcasting Service], aimed at educating the general public on topics including the big bang theory, the theory of evolution, and the theory of plate tectonics.\n"}
{"id": "15394141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15394141", "title": "Australian Institute of Health and Welfare", "text": "Australian Institute of Health and Welfare\n\nThe Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) is Australia's national agency for information and statistics on Australia’s health and welfare. Statistics and data developed by the AIHW are used extensively to inform discussion and policy decisions on health, community services and housing assistance. Under Australia's constitution, health and welfare services are primarily delivered by the states and territories, who are also mainly responsible for the collection of statistics on these services. A fundamental aim of the Institute is to promote consistency among national, state and territory statistics, in order to produce comprehensive national data of the highest standard.\n\nThe AIHW is an Australian Government statutory agency established under the \"Australian Institute of Health and Welfare Act 1987\". The Act contains very strong confidentiality protections for all data held, and requires the AIHW to publish two key biennial reports in alternate years: \"Australia’s health\" and \"Australia’s welfare\". Numerous other reports are produced each year, all of which are available free of charge on the AIHW website.\n\nIn 2016, the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare and the National Hospital Performance Authority merged.\n"}
{"id": "23197075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23197075", "title": "Bachelor of Medical Sciences", "text": "Bachelor of Medical Sciences\n\nA Bachelor of Medical Sciences (BMedSci, BMedSc, BMSc, BSc(Med) degree or Bachelor of Medical Sciences \nis an undergraduate academic degree awarded after three or four years of degree level study in disciplines underpinning medicine, typically involving biochemistry, cell biology, physiology, pharmacology and other related disciplines, leading to an in depth understanding of human biology and associated research skills such as study design, statistics and laboratory techniques. It is an equivalent level qualification to the more commonly awarded Bachelor of Science (BSc). Graduates may enter a diverse range of roles including post-graduate study, academia, the biotechnology industry, the pharmaceutical industry, consultancy roles, or unrelated disciplines which make use of the broad range of transferable skills gained through this degree.\n\nIn Australia, the Bachelor of Medical Sciences (BMedSc) degree is offered by Griffith University, University of New South Wales, University of Sydney, Monash University, Australian National University, University of Western Sydney, University of Newcastle, Flinders University, Charles Sturt University, \n\nAt the University of Western Ontario, BMSc is a four-year degree offered by the Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry. It is differentiated from a BSc due to the advanced medical sciences orientation of the courses offered such as Anatomy and Pharmacology.\n\nThe University of Alberta offers a BMSc to Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry students who did not complete a Bachelor's degree prior to entry into the program.\n\nIn India, BMSc is an undergraduate degree offered by top universities like Panjab University, Punjabi University and the Indian Institutes of Technology.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Bachelor of Medical Sciences degree can be awarded in three situations; firstly as a standalone 3-year first degree, secondly, as a consequence of taking an extra year during a medical or dental course (termed intercalating), or thirdly as an additional part of a medical degree but without any additional years of study. When the degree is obtained without any additional years of study, it may not be viewed as an equivalent qualification. For example, the UK Foundation Programme Office (the British body which manages first jobs for new medical graduates) places less value on a BMedSc degree if an additional year of study has not been undertaken. Regardless of the way in which this degree is obtained, a research project typically forms a large component of the degree as well as formal teaching in human biology.\n\nBachelor of Medical Sciences degrees are awarded as a standalone 3 year course by the University of Exeter, University of Birmingham, the University of Sheffield, Bangor University, Oxford Brookes University, De Montfort University, and the University of St Andrews. Medical schools which award an intercalated Bachelor of Medical Sciences after an additional year of study are Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, the University of Birmingham, the University of Dundee, the University of Edinburgh the University of Aberdeen and the University of Sheffield. \nThe University of Nottingham and the University of Southampton award the degree as a standard part of their undergraduate medicine courses without an additional year of study (students must undertake a research project).\n\nIn Egypt, the bachelor of medical sciences is awarded after four years of study in addition to an internship year in which interns are trained in multiple public and university hospitals.\n\nThe degree is offered in five universities in Egypt: October 6 University, Misr University for Science and Technology, Pharos University in Alexandria, Beni-Suef University and Menoufia University. Faculties of applied medical sciences offer various disciplines for students to choose from, including medical laboratories, radiology and medical imaging, therapeutic nutrition, and biomedical equipment.\n\nIn 2015, the Central Authority For Organization and Administration (CAOA) granted the holders of the bachelor of medical sciences the title of \"specialist\" in the corresponding specialty.\n\n28\n\n31.\n\n32.\n"}
{"id": "1917948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917948", "title": "Beedi", "text": "Beedi\n\nA beedi (also spelled bidi or biri) is a thin cigarette or mini-cigar filled with tobacco flake and commonly wrapped in a \"Diospyros melanoxylon\" or \"Piliostigma racemosum\" leaf tied with a string or adhesive at one end. It originates from the Indian subcontinent. The name is derived from the Marwari word \"beeda\"—a mixture of betel nuts, herbs, and spices wrapped in a leaf.\n\nA traditional method of tobacco use throughout South Asia and parts of the Middle East, today beedies are popular and inexpensive in India, where beedi consumption outpaces that of conventional cigarettes, accounting for 48% of Indian tobacco consumption in 2008.\n\nBeedies deliver more nicotine, carbon monoxide, and tar and carry a greater risk of oral cancers. As with many other types of smoking, beedis increase the risk of certain kinds of cancers, heart disease, and lung disease. They may also be more harmful than other forms of tobacco consumption.\n\nIndian tobacco cultivation began in the late 17th century, and beedies were first created when tobacco workers took leftover tobacco and rolled it in leaves.\n\nThe commercial Indian beedi industry saw rapid growth during the 1930s probably driven by an expansion of tobacco cultivation at the time but also helped by Gandhi's support of Indian industry and Indian products. Perhaps due to this, educated classes in India grew to prefer beedies to cigarettes although this is no longer the case. Muslim leaders, calling cigarettes foreign products, have also endorsed beedies at times.\n\nBy the middle of the 20th century beedi manufacture had grown into a highly competitive industry. This stage of commercial production—at the height of the beedi's popularity—saw the creation of many new beedi brands as well as beedi factories employing upwards of one hundred, primarily male, beedi rollers.\n\nFactory-based beedi production declined as a result of increased regulation during the 1940s, '50s, and '60s, and beedi-making became a cottage industry with a home-based women workforce predominantly employed only in the beedi rolling. In contrast, males continue to be employed in other aspects of beedi production.\n\nUnlike cigarettes, beedies must be puffed frequently to keep them lit, and doing so requires effort.\n\nBeedi smoking tends to be associated with a lower social standing, and these tobacco-filled leaves are inexpensive when compared to regular cigarettes. Those with a high social standing who do smoke beedies often do so out of the public eye; however, the cultural trend is changing.\n\nIn the United States, beedies are treated like conventional cigarettes. They are taxed at the same rates, are required to have a tax stamp, and must carry the Surgeon General's warning. However, a study done in San Francisco showed that about four in ten packs of beedies did not contain the required warning label and seven in ten did not carry the tax stamp. 2006 statistics on beedi usage show that 2.9% of high school students in the United States take part in beedi smoking compared to 1.4% of those aged 18 to 24.\n\nBeedis are currently legal in the UK and are subject to the same taxation as cigarettes. One must be aged 18 or over to purchase them.\n\nSome beedies are flavoured. Both Canada and the US have banned flavoured cigarettes.\n\nOver 8 million Indians are employed in the manufacture of beedies, a cottage industry that is typically done by women in their homes.\n\nWorkers roll an average of 500–1000 beedies per day, handling of tobacco flake. Studies have shown that nicotine levels in the bodily fluids of beedi workers are elevated even among those who do not use tobacco.\n\nThe production of beedies is also popular in Bangladesh. According to the 2014 \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" published by the Bureau of International Labor Affairs, the informal sector in these countries employs underage children in the production of beedies \"in response to consumer preferences\".\n\nTendu (\"Diospyros melanoxylon\") leaves make excellent wrappers, and the success of the beedi is due, in part, to this leaf. The leaves are in abundance shortly after the tobacco crop is cured and so are ready to be used in beedi manufacture. Collected in the summer and made into bundles, the leaves are dried in the sun for three to six days before being used as wrappers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1017695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017695", "title": "Ben Carson", "text": "Ben Carson\n\nBenjamin Solomon Carson Sr. (born September 18, 1951) is an American politician, author and former neurosurgeon serving as the 17th and current United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development since 2017, under the Trump Administration. Prior to his cabinet position, he was a candidate for President of the United States in the Republican primaries in 2016.\n\nBorn in Detroit, Michigan, and a graduate of Yale University and the University of Michigan Medical School, Carson has authored numerous books on his medical career and political stances. He was the subject of a in 2009.\n\nHe was the Director of Pediatric Neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Maryland from 1984 until his retirement in 2013. As a pioneer in neurosurgery, Carson's achievements include performing the only successful separation of conjoined twins joined at the back of the head; pioneering the first successful neurosurgical procedure on a fetus inside the womb; performing the first completely successful separation of type-2 vertical craniopagus twins; developing new methods to treat brain-stem tumors; and reviving hemispherectomy techniques for controlling seizures. He became the youngest chief of pediatric neurosurgery in the country at age 33. He has received more than 60 honorary doctorate degrees, dozens of national merit citations, and written over 100 neurosurgical publications. In 2008, he was bestowed the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States.\n\nCarson's widely publicized speech at the 2013 National Prayer Breakfast catapulted him to conservative fame for his views on social and political issues. On May 4, 2015, he announced he was running for the Republican nomination in the 2016 presidential election at a rally in his hometown of Detroit. In March 2016, following the Super Tuesday primaries, he suspended his campaign and announced he would be the new national chairman of My Faith Votes, a group that encourages Christians to exercise their civic duty to vote. He then endorsed the candidacy of Donald Trump.\n\nOn March 2, 2017, Carson was confirmed by the United States Senate as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in a 58–41 vote.\n\nCarson was born in Detroit, Michigan, to Robert Solomon Carson, Jr. (1914–1992), a World War II U.S. Army veteran, and his wife, Sonya Carson (née Copeland; 1928-2017). Robert Carson was a Baptist minister, but later a Cadillac automobile plant laborer. Both of his parents came from large families in rural Georgia, and they were living in rural Tennessee when they met and married. Carson's mother was 13 and his father was 28 when they married, and after his father finished his military service, they moved from Chattanooga, Tennessee, to Detroit, where they lived in a large house in the Indian Village neighborhood. Carson's older brother, Curtis, was born in 1949, when his mother was 20. In 1950, Carson's parents purchased a new 733-square foot single-family detached home on Deacon Street in the Boynton neighborhood in southwest Detroit.\n\nCarson's Detroit Public Schools education began in 1956 with kindergarten at the Fisher School, and continued through first, second, and the first half of third grade, during which time he was an average student. When Carson was five, his mother learned that his father had a prior family and had not divorced his first wife. In 1959, when Carson was eight, his parents separated and he moved with mother and brother to live for two years with his mother's Seventh-day Adventist older sister and her sister's husband in multi-family dwellings in the Dorchester and Roxbury neighborhoods of Boston. In Boston, Carson's mother attempted suicide, had several psychiatric hospitalizations for depression, and for the first time began working outside the home as a domestic worker, while Carson and his brother attended a two-classroom school at the Berea Seventh-day Adventist church where two teachers taught eight grades, and the vast majority of time was spent singing songs and playing games.\n\nIn 1961, when Carson was ten, he moved with his mother and brother back to southwest Detroit, where they lived in a multi-family dwelling in a primarily white neighborhood (Springwells Village) across the railroad tracks from the Delray neighborhood, while renting out their house on Deacon Street which his mother received in a divorce settlement. When they returned to Detroit public schools, Carson and his brother's academic performance initially lagged far behind their new classmates, having according to Carson \"essentially lost a year of school\" by attending the small Seventh-day Adventist parochial school in Boston, but both improved when their mother limited their time watching television and required them to read and write book reports on two library books per week. Carson attended the predominantly white Higgins Elementary School for fifth and sixth grades and the predominantly white Wilson Junior High School for seventh and the first half of eighth grade. In 1965, when Carson was 13, he moved with his mother and brother back to their house on Deacon Street. He attended the predominantly black Hunter Junior High School for the second half of eighth grade. When he was eight, Carson had dreamed of becoming a missionary doctor, but five years later he aspired to the lucrative lifestyles of psychiatrists portrayed on television, and his brother bought him a subscription to \"Psychology Today\" for his 13th birthday.\n\nBy ninth grade, the family's financial situation had improved, his mother surprising neighbors by paying cash to buy a new Chrysler car, and the only government assistance they still relied on was food stamps. Carson attended the predominantly black Southwestern High School for ninth through 12th grades, graduating third in his class academically. In high school, he played the baritone horn in the band and participated in forensics (public speaking), chess club, and the U.S. Army Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (JROTC) program where he reached its highest rank—cadet colonel. Carson served as a laboratory assistant in the high school's biology, chemistry, physics school laboratories beginning in 10th, 11th, and 12th grade, respectively, and worked as a biology laboratory assistant at Wayne State University the summer between 11th and 12th grades.\n\nIn his book \"Gifted Hands\", Carson relates that as a youth, he had a violent temper. \"As a teenager, I would go after people with rocks, and bricks, and baseball bats, and hammers,\" Carson told NBC's \"Meet the Press\" in October 2015. He said he once tried to hit his mother on the head with a hammer over a clothing dispute, while in the ninth grade he tried to stab a friend who had changed the radio station. Fortunately, the blade broke in his friend's belt buckle. Carson said that the intended victim, whose identity he wants to protect, was a classmate, a friend, or a close relative. After this incident, Carson said that he began reading the Book of Proverbs and applying verses on anger. As a result, he states he \"never had another problem with temper\". In his various books and at campaign events, he repeated these stories and said he once attacked a schoolmate with a combination lock. Nine friends, classmates, and neighbors who grew up with him told CNN in 2015 they did not remember the anger or violence he has described. In response, Carson posted on Facebook a 1997 \"Parade Magazine\" issue, in which his mother verified the stabbing incident. He then questioned the extent of the effort CNN had exerted in the investigation.\n\nHe has said that he protected white students in a biology lab after a race riot broke out at his high school in response to the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968. The \"Wall Street Journal\" confirmed the riot but could not find anyone who remembered Carson sheltering white students.\n\nCarson's SAT college admission test scores ranked him somewhere in the low 90th percentile, which according to him resulted in a \"Detroit Free Press\" article \"Carson Gets Highest SAT Scores in Twenty Years\" of any student in Detroit public schools. He wanted to attend college farther away than his brother who was at the University of Michigan. Carson says he narrowed his college choices to Harvard or Yale, but could afford the $10 application fee to apply to only one of them. He said he decided to apply to Yale after seeing a team from Yale defeat a team from Harvard on the \"G.E. College Bowl\" television show. Carson was accepted by Yale and offered a full scholarship covering tuition, room and board. In 1973, Carson graduated with a B.A. in psychology from Yale \"with a fairly respectable grade point average, although far from the top of the class.\"\n\nCarson does not say in his books whether he received a college student deferment during the Vietnam War. He does say that his older brother, then a student at the University of Michigan, received a low number (26) in the first draft lottery in 1969 and was able to enlist in the Navy for four years instead of being drafted, whereas he received a high number (333) in the second draft lottery in 1970. Carson said he would have readily accepted his responsibility to fight had he been drafted, but he \"identified strongly with the antiwar protesters and the revolutionaries\" and enthusiastically voted for antiwar Democratic presidential candidate George McGovern in 1972. In his book, \"America the Beautiful\" (2012), Carson said: \"The Vietnam War was, in retrospect, not a noble conflict. It brought shame to our nation because of both the outcome and the cause.\"\n\nIn the summers following his high school graduation until his second year in medical school, Carson worked at a variety of jobs: as a clerk in the payroll office of Ford Motor Company; supervisor of a six-person crew picking up trash along the highway under a federal jobs program for inner-city students; a clerk in the mailroom of Young & Rubicam Advertising; assembling fender parts and inspecting back window louvers on the assembly line at Chrysler; a crane operator at Sennett Steel; and finally a radiology technician taking X-rays. At Yale, Carson had a part-time job on campus as a student police aide.\n\nIn his autobiography, Carson said he had been offered a scholarship to West Point. \"Politico\" reported that West Point has no record of his ever seeking admission. The academy does not award scholarships to anyone; cadets receive a free education and room and board in exchange for a commitment to serve in the military for at least five years after graduation. Carson also said the University of Michigan had offered him a scholarship. His staff later said that the described scenario was similar to that of West Point, as he never actually applied for entry to the University of Michigan.\n\nIn his autobiography, \"Gifted Hands\", Carson recounted that exams for a Yale psychology course he took his junior year, \"Perceptions 301\", were inexplicably burned, forcing students to retake the exam. Carson said that other students walked out in protest when they discovered the retest was significantly harder than the original examination, but he alone finished the test. On doing so, Carson said he was congratulated by the course instructor who told him the retest was a hoax intended to find \"the most honest student in the class\". Carson said the professor awarded him $10, and that a photographer for the \"Yale Daily News\" was present to take his picture, which appeared in the student newspaper with a story about the experiment. Doubts were raised about this story in 2015 during Carson's presidential campaign. \"The Wall Street Journal\" attempted to verify Carson's account, reporting that Yale undergraduate courses were identified with only two digits in the early 1970s, and that Yale offered no course called \"Perceptions 301\" at that time and that Carson's photo never appeared in the \"Yale Daily News\". Carson, while acknowledging the class number was not correct, said: \"You know, when you write a book with a co-writer and you say that there was a class, a lot of [the] time they'll put a number or something just to give it more meat. You know, obviously, decades later, I'm not going to remember the course number.\"\n\nCarson entered the University of Michigan Medical School in 1973, and at first struggled academically, doing so poorly on his first set of comprehensive exams that his faculty adviser recommended he drop out of medical school or take a reduced academic load and take longer to finish. He continued with a regular academic load, and his grades improved to average in his first year of medical school. By his second year of medical school, Carson began to excel academically by seldom attending lectures and instead, studying textbooks and lecture notes from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. Carson graduated from the University of Michigan Medical School with an M.D. in 1977, and was elected to the Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society.\n\nCarson was then accepted by the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine neurosurgery program, where he served one year as a surgical intern and five years as a neurosurgery resident, completing the final year as chief resident in 1983. He then spent one year (1983–1984) as a Senior Registrar in neurosurgery at the Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital in Nedlands, a suburb of Perth, Western Australia.\n\nAfter medical school, Carson completed his residency in neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland. Around this time, as Carson later related to Karen Hunter of Sirius XM, he was held at gunpoint at a Popeyes restaurant in Baltimore. Armstrong Williams, Carson's campaign business manager, later told Wolf Blitzer of CNN that several people in the neighborhood chased the robber down the street. Neither the Baltimore police department nor Popeyes could corroborate Carson's story, since no police report had been made.\n\nIn 1983, at the suggestion of an Australian colleague, Carson accepted the position of senior registrar at Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital (in Perth, Western Australia), spending one year there. Upon returning to Johns Hopkins in 1984, Carson was appointed the university's Director of Pediatric Neurosurgery. As a surgeon, he specialized in traumatic brain injuries, brain and spinal cord tumors, achondroplasia, neurological and congenital disorders, craniosynostosis, epilepsy, and trigeminal neuralgia. He has said that his hand–eye coordination and three-dimensional reasoning made him a gifted surgeon.\n\nWhile at Johns Hopkins, Carson figured in the revival of the hemispherectomy, a drastic surgical procedure in which part or all of one hemisphere of the brain is removed to control severe pediatric epilepsy. Encouraged by John M. Freeman, he refined the procedure in the 1980s and performed it many times.\n\nIn 1987, Carson was the lead neurosurgeon of a 70-member surgical team that separated conjoined twins, Patrick and Benjamin Binder, who had been joined at the back of the head (craniopagus twins); the separation surgery held promise in part because the twin boys had separate brains. Both boys entered the hospital \"giggling and kicking\" in preparation for surgery without which the seven-month-old twins would never have been able to crawl, walk, or even turn over. The Johns Hopkins surgical team rehearsed the surgery for weeks, practising on two dolls secured together by Velcro. Although follow-up stories were few following the Binder twins' return to Germany seven months after the operation, both twins were reportedly \"far from normal\" two years after the procedure, with one in a vegetative state. \"I will never get over this . . . Why did I have them separated?\" said their mother, Theresia Binder, in a 1993 interview. Neither twin was ever able to talk or care for himself, and both would eventually become institutionalized wards of the state. Patrick Binder died sometime during the last decade, according to his uncle, who was located by the \"Washington Post\" in 2015. The Binder surgery served as blueprint for similar twin separations, a procedure that was refined in subsequent decades. Carson participated in four subsequent high-risk conjoined twin separations, including a 1997 operation on craniopagus Zambian twins, Joseph and Luka Banda, which resulted in a normal neurological outcome. Two sets of twins died, including Iranian twins Ladan and Laleh Bijani; another separation resulted in the death of one twin and the survival of another, who is legally blind and struggles to walk.\n\nAccording to the \"Washington Post\", the Binder surgery \"launched the stardom\" of Carson, who \"walked out of the operating room that day into a spotlight that has never dimmed\", beginning with a press conference that was covered worldwide, which created name recognition leading to publishing deals and a motivational speaking career. On the condition the film would have its premiere in Baltimore, Carson agreed to a cameo appearance as \"head surgeon\" in the 2003 Farrelly brothers' comedy \"Stuck on You\", starring Matt Damon and Greg Kinnear as conjoined twins who, unhappy after their surgical separation, continue life attached to each other by Velcro.\n\nIn March 2013, Carson announced he would retire as a surgeon, saying he would \"much rather quit when I'm at the top of my game.\" His retirement became official on July 1, 2013.\n\nCarson has written many articles in peer-reviewed journals and six bestselling books published by Zondervan, an international Christian media and publishing company. The first book was an autobiography published in 1992. Two others are about his personal philosophies of success and what he sees as the stabilizing influence of religion.\n\nOn August 7, 2002, Carson underwent surgery for prostate cancer. Interviewed the following November, he said the surgery had successfully removed all cancerous tissue and he was completely cured of the disease. In 2004, in a speech at a Mannatech, Inc. event, he credited the company's products with the disappearance of his cancer symptoms.\nAccording to CNN, Carson had an \"extensive relationship\" from 2004 to 2014 with Mannatech, a multi-level marketing company that produces dietary supplements made from substances such as aloe vera extract and larch-tree bark. Carson gave four paid speeches at company events. He has denied being paid by Mannatech to do anything else, saying he has been a \"prolific speaker\" who has addressed many groups. The nature of this relationship became an issue in 2015 during Carson's presidential campaign. Carson's relationship with Mannatech continued after the company paid $7 million in 2009 to settle a deceptive-marketing lawsuit, in Texas, over claims that its products could cure autism and cancer. His most recent paid speech for the company was in 2013, for which he was paid $42,000. His image appeared on the corporation's website in 2014, and in the same year, he praised their \"glyconutrient\" supplements in a PBS special that was subsequently featured on the site.\n\nCarson delivered the keynote address at a Mannatech distributor convention in 2011, during which he said the company had donated funds to help him obtain a coveted endowed chair post at Johns Hopkins Medicine: \"... three years ago I had an endowed chair bestowed upon me and uh, it requires $2.5 million to do an endowed chair and I'm proud to say that part of that $2.5 million came from Mannatech.\" In October 2015, Carson's campaign team said \"there was no contribution from Mannatech to Johns Hopkins\", and his statement had been \"a legitimate mistake on his part. Confusion. He had been doing some fundraising for the hospital and some other chairs about that time, and he simply got things mixed up.\"\n\nDuring the CNBC GOP debate on October 28, 2015, Carson was asked about his relationship with Mannatech. He replied, \"That's easy to answer. I didn't have any involvement with Mannatech. Total propaganda. I did a couple speeches for them. I did speeches for other people—they were paid speeches. It is absolutely absurd to say I had any kind of relation with them. Do I take the product? Yes. I think it is a good product.\" Politifact rated Carson's denial of any involvement as \"false\", pointing to his paid speeches for Mannatech and his appearances in promotional videos in which he favorably reviewed its products, despite not being \"an official spokesman or sales associate\". When the CNBC moderator commented that Carson was on Mannatech's website, Carson replied that he had not given his permission. Earlier, he had said that he was unaware of the company's legal history.\n\nOn November 3, 2015, Mannatech said on its website that for compliance with Federal campaign finance regulations, the company had removed all references to Carson before he announced his bid for the presidency.\n\nIn July 2013, Carson was hired by \"The Washington Times\" as a weekly opinion columnist. In October 2013, Fox News hired Carson as a contributor, to provide analysis and commentary across Fox News Channel's daytime and primetime programming, a relationship which lasted to the end of 2014.\n\nIn 2014, some House Republicans (who later formed the House Freedom Caucus) approached Carson about the possibility of his standing for Speaker of the House in the event that the incumbent Speaker, John Boehner, had to step down due to intra-party disunion. Carson declined, citing preparations for his 2016 presidential campaign. Ultimately, Boehner resigned in October 2015, and Paul Ryan was elected as the new Speaker.\n\nIn financial disclosure forms, Carson and his wife reported income of between $8.9 million and $27 million from January 2014 to May 3, 2015, when he announced his presidential campaign. Over that period, Carson received over $4 million from 141 paid speeches; between $1.1 million and $6 million in book royalties; between $200,000 to $2 million as a contributor to the \"Washington Times\" and Fox News; and between $2 million and $10 million as a member of the boards of Kellogg Co. and Costco Wholesale Corp. He resigned from Costco's board in mid-2015, after serving on it for more than 16 years. Carson was Chairman of the Baltimore-based biotechnology company Vaccinogen from August 2014 until the announcement of his US presidential bid in May 2015. Carson had previously served on Vaccinogen's Medical Advisory Board.\n\nCarson, who had been registered as a Republican, changed his registration to independent in the 1990s after watching Republicans impeach President Clinton for perjury and obstruction of justice regarding an extramarital affair with Monica Lewinsky. \"I just saw so much hypocrisy in both parties\", he said. In February 2013, Carson said he was not a member of any political party.\n\nIn his book \"America the Beautiful\" (2013), he wrote: \"I believe it is a very good idea for physicians, scientists, engineers, and others trained to make decisions based on facts and empirical data to get involved in the political arena.\"\n\nCarson was the keynote speaker at the National Prayer Breakfast on February 7, 2013. The speech garnered Carson considerable attention because the event is normally apolitical in nature, and the speech was critical of the philosophy and policies of President Barack Obama, who was sitting 10 feet away.\n\nAbout the speech, Carson said: \"I don't think it was particularly political... You know, I'm a physician\". Regarding the policies of President Obama, he said: \"There are a number of policies that I don't believe lead to the growth of our nation and don't lead to the elevation of our nation. I don't want to sit here and say all of his policies are bad. What I would like to see more often in this nation is an open and intelligent conversation\".\n\nCarson's sudden popularity among conservatives led to his being invited as a featured speaker at the 2013 Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). He tied for seventh place in the \"Washington Times\"/CPAC 2013 Straw Poll with 4% of the 3,000 ballots cast. In the 2014 CPAC straw poll, he was in third place with 9% of the vote, behind senators Ted Cruz of Texas (with 11%) and Rand Paul of Kentucky (31%). In the presidential straw poll at the 2013 Values Voter Summit he and Rick Santorum polled 13%, with winner Ted Cruz polling 42%, and in 2014 he polled 20% to Cruz's winning 25%.\n\nOn November 4, 2014, the day of the 2014 midterms, he rejoined the Republican Party, saying it was \"truly a pragmatic move\" because he was considering running for president in 2016.\n\nIn January 2015, \"The Weekly Standard\" reported that the Draft Carson Committee had raised $13 million by the end of 2014, shortly after Carson performed well in a CNN/ORC poll of potential candidates in December 2014, coming second in two different versions. He polled 10% to Mitt Romney's 20%, but in the same poll with Romney removed from the list, Carson polled 11% to Jeb Bush's 14%. The \"Wall Street Journal\" mentioned that the Draft Carson Committee had chairmen in all of Iowa's 99 counties, and that Carson had recently led two separate Public Policy polls for the state of Pennsylvania.\n\nOn May 2, 2015, Carson proclaimed that in two days, he was going to make a major announcement on his decision on whether to enter the Presidential Race. In an interview with a Cincinnati TV station WKRC (AM) on May 3, 2015, Carson accidentally confirmed his candidacy for president. The interview was also broadcast live on WPEC. The next day, May 4, 2015, at the Music Hall Center for the Performing Arts in his home town of Detroit, he officially announced his run for the Republican nomination in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. The announcement speech was preceded by a choir singing \"Lose Yourself\" with Carson sitting in the audience. After the song, Carson took the stage and announced his candidacy alongside a speech on his rags to riches life story, at one point stating: \"I remember when our favorite drug dealer was killed.\"\n\nIn October 2015, the Super PAC supporting Carson, The 2016 Committee (formerly the Draft Carson Committee) announced it had received donations in mostly $100 increments from more than 200 small businesses around the country over the course of one week. \"Fox Business\" reported that \"Carson's outsider status is growing his small business support base.\" Ben Walters, a fundraiser for The 2016 Committee expressed optimism about Carson's small business support base: \"It's unbelievable the diversity of businesses that we are bringing on. We are seeing everything from doctors' offices and folks in the healthcare profession to motorcycle repair shops and bed and breakfasts.\"\n\nIn October, it was noted that Carson's \"improbable\" political career had surged in polls and fundraising, while he continued to participate in nationally televised Republican debates.\n\nThe campaign brought considerable attention to Carson's past. CBS News described Carson's narrative of \"overcoming impossible odds as a child growing up in an impoverished, single-parent household to reach international prominence as a pediatric neurosurgeon\" as \"a key part of his presidential campaign.\" \"The Wall Street Journal\" said the narrative came under \"the harsh scrutiny of presidential politics, where rivals and media hunt for embellishments and omissions that can hobble a campaign.\" CNN characterized the core narrative as \"acts of violence as an angry young man,\" followed by a spiritual epiphany that transformed Carson into the \"composed figure\" he now portrays. Media challenges to a number of Carson's statements included allegations of discrepancies between documented facts and certain assertions in his autobiography \"Gifted Hands\"—allegations dismissed by Carson as a media \"witch hunt\". In November 2015, the \"Detroit Free Press\" republished an article from 1988 \"to try to bring some clarity to the claims currently being brought into question.\"\n\nIn November 2015, Carson's campaign aired a 60-second TV advertisement in which excerpts from Carson's stump speech were intercut with a rap by an artist named Aspiring Mogul. They spent $150,000 on the ads, which were aired in Atlanta, Detroit and Miami. Carson defended the ad, saying \"Well, there are people in the campaign who felt that was a good way to do things ... I support them in doing that, but I probably would have taken a little different approach.\" Later, he said the advertisement was done without his knowledge, that \"it was done by people who have no concept of the black community and what they were doing\", and that he was \"horrified\" by it.\n\nStatements that Carson made regarding foreign policy called into doubt his familiarity with the domain. \"The New York Times\" reported in 2015, \"Carson has acknowledged being something of a novice on foreign affairs\". Regarding the Ukrainian crisis, Carson would send arms to Ukraine to aid it in its fight against pro-Russian rebels. He also believes the Baltic states should \"get involved in NATO\" (apparently unaware that they are NATO members).\n\nIn a November 2015 Republican debate, Carson declared his intentions to make ISIS \"look like losers\" as he would \"destroy their caliphate\". Carson also advocated capturing a \"big energy field\" outside of Anbar, Iraq, which he said could be accomplished \"fairly easily\". Regarding the Middle East, he also claimed that \"the Chinese are there\"; while in contrast, \"The Guardian\" reported that \"there are no known members of the Chinese armed forces currently engaged in any conflict in the Middle East\".\n\nCarson said that he is not opposed to a Palestinian state, but questioned why it needs \"to be within the confines of Israeli territory […] Is that necessary, or can you sort of slip that area down into Egypt?\"\n\nOn March 2, following the Super Tuesday, 2016 primaries, Carson announced that he did \"not see a political path forward\" and would not attend the next Republican debate in Detroit. He said, \"this grassroots movement on behalf of 'We the People' will continue,\" indicating that he would give more details later in the week. He suspended his campaign on March 4 and announced he would be the new national chairman of My Faith Votes, a group that encourages Christians to exercise their civic duty to vote.\n\nIn total, Ben Carson's campaign spent $58 million. However, most of the money went to political consultants and fundraising rather than advertising. Carson questioned whether his campaign was economically sabotaged from within.\n\nOn March 11, 2016, a week after Carson ended his presidential campaign, he endorsed Trump, calling him part of \"the voice of the people to be heard.\" Carson's subsequent comments that Americans would only have to sustain Trump for four years if he was not a good president drew criticism and he admitted that he would have preferred another candidate though thought Trump had the best chance of winning the general election.\nOn the other hand, at the press conference Carson stated that Trump had a \"cerebral\" side.\n\nOn April 16, Carson spoke favorably of the possibility of abolishing the Electoral College, believing it disregards \"the will of the people\". Later that month, on April 25, Carson expressed opposition to Harriet Tubman replacing Andrew Jackson on the $20 bill, the day after dubbing the replacement \"political expediency\", though he indicated interest in Tubman having another tribute. In late April, Carson wrote to the Nevada Republican Party, requesting the two delegates he won in Nevada be released and free to support whoever they want.\n\nOn May 4, after Trump wrapped up the Republican nomination, he hinted that Carson would be among those who would vet his vice-presidential pick. The same day, Carson in an interview expressed interest in Ted Cruz serving as Attorney General of the United States, a position that Carson said would allow Cruz to prosecute Hillary Clinton, and then as a Supreme Court Justice nominee from the Trump administration. On May 6, Carson said in interview that Trump would consider a Democrat as his running mate, conflicting with Trump's asserting that he would not. A Carson spokesperson later said Carson expected Trump to select a Republican.\nCarson was said by aide Armstrong Williams in a May 10 interview to have withdrawn from the Trump campaign's vetting team, though the campaign confirmed he was still involved. Later that month, Carson revealed a list of potential vice-presidential candidates in an interview with the Washington Post. On May 16, Carson said the media could not keep opinion out of reporting and cited Walter Cronkite as a fair journalist that was in his words a \"left-wing radical.\"\n\nDuring the Republican National Convention, Carson appeared with former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani in support of the pro-Donald Trump Great America PAC at an event in Cleveland.\n\nAfter Donald Trump's win in the 2016 election, Carson joined Trump's transition team as Vice Chairman. Carson was also offered a cabinet position in the administration. He declined, in part because of his lack of experience, with an aide stating, \"The last thing he would want to do was take a position that could cripple the presidency.\" Although it was reported that the position was for Secretary of Health and Human Services, Carson's business manager has disputed this, stating, \"Dr. Carson was never offered a specific position, but everything was open to him.\" He was eventually offered the position of Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, which he accepted.\n\nOn December 5, 2016, Trump announced that he would nominate Carson to the position of Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. During the confirmation process, Carson was scrutinized by some housing advocates for what they perceived as his lack of relevant experience, and because he has been one the most hostile critics of HUD's role in enforcing anti-discrimination laws. During the confirmation hearing, Carson \"would not commit definitively to avoid directing tax dollars to Trump businesses.\"\n\nOn January 24, 2017, the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs voted unanimously to approve the nomination. On March 2, 2017, Carson was confirmed by the Senate by a 58-41 vote.\n\nOn March 6, his first day as secretary, while addressing Housing and Urban Development (HUD) employees, Carson saluted the work ethic of immigrants, and during his comments appeared to compare slaves to voluntary immigrants. A HUD spokesman said that no one present thought Carson \"was equating voluntary immigration with involuntary servitude.\" In the same speech, Carson inaccurately said that the human brain \"was incapable of forgetting and could be electrically stimulated into perfect recall.\"\n\nUnder the federal budget proposed by Trump in 2017, HUD's budget for fiscal year 2018 would be cut by $6.2 billion (13%) and the Community Development Block Grant, a program which Carson praised in a trip to Detroit as HUD secretary, would be eliminated. Carson issued a statement supporting the proposed cuts. Carson suggested that federal funds for housing in Detroit could be part of an expected infrastructure bill.\n\nOn April 2017, while speaking in Washington at the National Low Income Housing Coalition conference, Carson said that housing funding would be included in an upcoming infrastructure bill from the Trump administration.\n\nIn July 2017, during his keynote address at the LeadingAge Florida annual convention, Carson stated his concern about \"seniors who become destitute\" and reported that the Department of Housing and Urban Development had increased public housing programs for the elderly by an unspecified number.\n\nIn the summer 2017, Carson allowed his son, a Baltimore businessman Ben Carson Jr., to participate in organizing a HUD \"listening tour\" in Baltimore. Internal documents obtained by the \"Washington Post\" under the Freedom of Information Act showed that the younger Carson \"put people he'd invited in touch with his father's deputies, joined agency staff on official conference calls about the listening tour and copied his wife on related email exchanges.\" The son's involvement prompted HUD staff to express concern; the department's deputy general counsel for operations wrote in a memorandum \"that this gave the appearance that the Secretary may be using his position for his son's private gain.\" Carson's wife, son, and daughter-in-law also attended official meetings. In February 2018, the HUD inspector general's office confirmed that it was looking into the role that Carson's family played at the department.\n\nCarson received criticism for spending up to $31,000 on a dining set in his office in late 2017. This was discovered after Helen Foster, a career HUD official, filed a complaint alleging that she was demoted from her position because she refused to spend more than the legal $5,000 limit for office redecorations. Carson and his spokesman said that he had little or no involvement in the purchase of the dining set; later, email communications revealed that Carson and his wife selected the dining set. On March 20, 2018, Carson testified before the United States House Committee on Appropriations that he had \"dismissed\" himself from the decision to buy the $31,000 dining room set and \"left it to my wife, you know, to choose something.\"\n\nIn 1994, Carson and his wife started the Carson Scholars Fund, which awards scholarships to students in grades 4–11 for \"academic excellence and humanitarian qualities\".\n\nRecipients of the Carson Scholars Fund receive a $1,000 scholarship towards their college education. It has awarded 6,700 scholarships. In recognition for his work with the Carson Scholars Fund and other charitable giving throughout his lifetime, Carson was awarded the William E. Simon Prize for Philanthropic Leadership in 2005.\n\nCarson and his wife, Lacena \"Candy\" Rustin, met in 1971 as students at Yale University. They married in 1975 and lived in Howard County, Maryland, before moving in 2001 to West Friendship, Maryland, where they had purchased a 48-acre property. Together, the couple have three sons (Rhoeyce, Benjamin Jr., and Murray), as well as several grandchildren. Their youngest son, Murray, was born in Perth, Australia, while Carson was undertaking a residency there.\n\nCarson was diagnosed with prostate cancer, and underwent a two-hour operation at John Hopkins Hospital on August 7, 2002. Later after the surgery Carson sayed, \"The surgery was very successful. The cancer was contained, but within one millimeter of breaking through. The nodes were all negative, and the nerves were spared. I am going to continue.\"\n\nIn 2013, Carson, his wife, and Carson's mother moved to West Palm Beach, Florida.\n\nCarson and his wife are members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church (SDA). Carson was baptized at Burns Seventh-day Adventist Church on Detroit's eastside. A few years later, he told the pastor at a church he was attending in Inkster, Michigan, that he had not fully understood his first baptism and wanted to be baptized again, so he was. He has served as a local elder and Sabbath School teacher in the Seventh-day Adventist Church. His mother is a devout Seventh-day Adventist. Although Carson is an Adventist, the church has officially cautioned church employees to remain politically neutral.\n\nIn keeping with his Seventh-day Adventist faith, Carson announced in 2014 his belief \"that the United States will play a big role\" in the coming apocalypse. He went on to say, \"I hope by that time I'm not around anymore.\"\n\nIn an interview with Katie Couric, Carson said that Jesus Christ came to Earth to redeem the world through his atoning sacrifice and that all people are sinners and need his redemption.\n\nCarson has stated he does not believe in hell as understood by some Christians: \"You know, I see God as a very loving individual. And why would he torment somebody forever who only had a life of 60 or 70 or 80 years? Even if they were evil. Even if they were only evil for 80 years?\". This is fully in line with Adventist teaching, which promotes annihilationism.\n\nCarson endorsed Seventh-day Adventist theology, which includes belief in a literal reading of the first chapters of Genesis. In a 2013 interview with \"Adventist News Network\", Carson said \"You know, I'm proud of the fact that I believe what God has said, and I've said many times that I'll defend it before anyone. If they want to criticize the fact that I believe in a literal, six-day creation, let's have at it because I will poke all kinds of holes in what they believe.\" Carson's Adventism was raised as an issue by his then-primary rival Donald Trump. Some Adventists have argued that Carson's political positions on gun rights and religious liberty conflict with historic Adventist teachings in favor of nonviolence, pacifism, and the separation of church and state.\n\nConsistent with the practice of many Adventists, Carson is a lacto-ovo vegetarian (he will eat dishes containing milk, eggs, or cheese, and occasionally, poultry). He has said his main reason for becoming vegetarian was health concerns, including avoiding parasites and heart disease, and he emphasizes the environmental benefits of vegetarianism. His transition was made easier because he had eaten little meat for aesthetic reasons as a child, and he readily adopted his wife's vegetarianism because she does much of the cooking in their household. Speaking in 1990, he said that with the increasing availability of meat substitutes, \"It might take 20 years. But eventually there will no longer be a reason for most people to eat meat. And animals will breathe a sigh of relief.\" To avoid causing others discomfort, he is willing to occasionally eat chicken or turkey, although he finds eating pork highly unpleasant.\n\nCarson is a member of the American Academy of Achievement, Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society, and the Horatio Alger Association of Distinguished Americans.\nCarson has been awarded 38 honorary doctorate degrees and dozens of national merit citations. Detroit Public Schools opened the Dr. Benjamin Carson High School of Science and Medicine for students interested in pursuing healthcare careers. The school is partnering with Detroit Receiving Hospital and Michigan State University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40907921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40907921", "title": "Birmingham Community Healthcare NHS Trust", "text": "Birmingham Community Healthcare NHS Trust\n\nBirmingham Community Healthcare NHS Trust provides a wide range of community health services across Birmingham and the West Midlands, England. It became an NHS Foundation Trust in March 2016.\n\nIt planned to merge with Black Country Partnership NHS Foundation Trust and Dudley and Walsall Mental Health Partnership NHS Trust in October 2017. The new organisation will have an annual turnover of around £440 million – making it the third biggest mental health trust in England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45460558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45460558", "title": "Brazilian anti-asylum movement", "text": "Brazilian anti-asylum movement\n\nThe anti-asylum movement or anti-asylum fight (Portuguese: \"movimento antimanicomial\") is an organized movement in Brazil consisting of psychiatrists, psychologists and social workers requesting a humanitarian improvement in psychiatrist public services. University campuses, hospitals and workers of the field promote events in order to raise awareness and fight discrimination against mental patients.\n\nThe movement itself was born after a chain of worldwide political events and is celebrated on May 18 in Brazil. On May 18, 1987 about 350 employees of Mental Health reunited in the Brazilian city of Bauru, state of São Paulo in order to discuss and propose ways to change the archaic and inefficient Mental Health System in the country.\n\nIn its roots, the movement is connected to the Reforma Sanitária Brasileira (\"Brazilian Sanitary Reform\") whose outcome was the Sistema Único de Saúde (SUS) (\"Unified Health System\"). It's also related to deinstitutionalisation of Psychiatry developed in the cities of Gorizia and Trieste in Italy, by Italian psychiatrist Franco Basaglia in the 1960s.\n\nAs part of its decorrent movement, Psychiatric Reform took place under Law 10216 of 2011 (\"Lei Paulo Delgado\") seeking reformulation of the current model adopted by Mental Asylums, changing the focus of the treatment whose from systematic hospitalization to a more Psychosocial approach, including community and open services. According to the Brazilian Anti-Asylum Movement, public healthcare and mental health is a political and social complex process, composed by participants, institutions and actions of different sources taking place in many territories. It's a conjuncture of transformations in practices, knowledge, cultural and social values whose responsibility belongs not only to the hospital but also the government and people in interpersonal relationships. Therefore, the treatment is supposed to be held in a community base and the patients shall be given protection and receive proper treatment according to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nTheir agenda aims a change in the belief that mental disorders are treated solely with medications and institutionalization. It launches a campaign against the prejudice and discrimination faced by patients, whose identity and virtues are often ignored in the process, giving then importance to psychotherapy and dialogue, distancing those placed under care from stressful environments while integrating them with family, friends and significant others. Anti-asylum movement is also responsible for the privilege given to stable patients to have freedom to transit in and out the institution while sleeping in their own homes.\n\nThe conditions of mental health in Brazil improved slightly, as the Psychiatric Institutionalization is still not over and many hospitals across the country still haven't adapted themselves to the new regent laws. A considerable amount of asylums were transformed into \"Centers of Psychosocial Attention\" (Brazilian Portuguese: \"\"Centros de Atenção Psicossocial\", simply known as \"CAPS\"\")\n\n"}
{"id": "18353463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18353463", "title": "Cardiovascular disease in China", "text": "Cardiovascular disease in China\n\nCardiac disease in China is on the rise. Though incidences of heart disease have increased faster in the city than in the countryside, rural morbidity and mortality rates are now on the rise as well. Health statistics shows that the ischemic heart disease mortality rate in rural China has approximately doubled since 1988.\n\nUnlike in developed countries, there is no preventive or primary health care system in place to stop the rise of cardiac disease. The real extent of heart disease in rural China is unknown because statistics are fraught with error and bias due to difficulties in ascertaining cause of death in places where 90% die without seeing a doctor. Therefore, there is a need to ascertain the real incidence and prevalence of heart disease and to develop adequate preventive and primary care in the Chinese countryside.\n\nStroke is the largest cardiovascular killer in China at about 40% of total mortality in 2007 (approx. 280 per 100 000)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50129158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50129158", "title": "Chandra Theertham (Karaikal)", "text": "Chandra Theertham (Karaikal)\n\nChandra Theertham is the temple tank of Karaikal Ammayar Temple, Nithyakalyana Perumal Temple and the Karaikal Kailasanathar Temple. The Karaikal float festival (Theppam) celebrated in this temple tank.\n\nThe belief of the Karaikal people is if we bath once in this temple tank, all the bone related diseases and fractures will get cured. The Chandra Theertham is cleaned for long time and the work got completed in the year 2010.\n\nIn 2010 the Karaikal Floating festival was held after 30 years. This was due to the help of the local MLA and former Health minister Mr.A.M.H.Nazeem. It was celebrated in a grand manner. After that continuously, for every year a Float festival was started to held. The theppam will move in this Temple tank, rounding three times. People of Karaikal and nearby towns gather in the Chandra Theertham during this festival.This Floating festival is celebrated either for the Nithyakalyana Perumal or Karaikal Kailasanathar.\n"}
{"id": "26407659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26407659", "title": "Climarice", "text": "Climarice\n\nClimarice is a research project, carried out by The Norwegian Institute for Agricultural and Environmental Research (Bioforsk, Norway), Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU, India), International Water Management Institute (IWMI, India) and International Pacific Research Center (IPRC, United States); which is trying to assess the impact of climate variability on water availability and rice production in the Cauvery river basin of Tamil Nadu, India.\n\nIn particular, the impacts of climate change on extreme events such as droughts, floods, heat waves and on the spatial and temporal distribution of the monsoon rains will certainly impact rice production and food security in India. However, there is a significant level of uncertainty in the climate models' projections that cascade into impact models and thereby influence policy decisions related to adaptation. For both scientific community and policy makers, reducing the uncertainties is a big challenge. On a positive note, examination of historical observed rice production data in India shows an overall increasing trend in many regions with annual fluctuations. Will this trend continue given the projected change in climate and population increase in India?\n\nClimarice is funded by the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is currently assessing the impacts of climate change on rice production areas and rice productivity. Specifically, the project is assessing the behavior of the Indian monsoon in different climate scenarios, and examining its impact on the water availability, rice crop production and the resultant socio economic vulnerability and adaptation of farming communities in the Cauvery river basin, India. Since the project was started in January 2008, relevant coping and adaptation mechanisms have been identified and techniques developed to address the issues of climate vulnerabilities in rice production.\n\n"}
{"id": "6786575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6786575", "title": "Dislocation of hip in animals", "text": "Dislocation of hip in animals\n\nDislocation of hip (coxofemoral luxation) may occur in domestic animals.\n\nIt is a not rare condition, usually unilateral, in:\n\nThe same illness also exists in human medicine.\n\nThe condition can be observed after the forced traction of fetus while delivery, slip of animal on a floor. \nMore commonly seen in animals with poor nutrient ration at end stage of gestation which results in osteoporosis of bones & joints due go which acetabulum notch become shallow and femur comes out if it while delivery, ketonemia also has adverse effect on coxo-femoral luxation\n\nIn dogs, it occurs mainly in an upwards and forwards direction. Hence, the affected leg is shortened, and the greater trochanter prominent.\n\nIn cattle, it occurs mainly craniodorsally or caudoventrally, but other directions are possible. A typical stance is seen in craniodorsal luxations, with a shortened limb, and a protrusion of greater trochanter.\n\nAttempts in reduction in cattle are generally not successful. Affected animals, at least not too heavy ones, can live with the disease for a long time because of the formation of a sort of pseudo-joint in the hip.\n\nDogs with hip dysplasia and unilateral dislocation can live if the other leg is not too severely hit. Then there is a severe muscular atrophy of the thigh. Compensation occurs with musculation of the shoulders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34873955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34873955", "title": "Drunk walking", "text": "Drunk walking\n\nDrunk walking describes people intoxicated by alcohol walking in public spaces. The term \"drinkwalkers\" was coined in Australia and the issue regarded as a public health concern. Whereas there are long standing social stigmas and laws against drunk driving, only more recently have the personal and social dangers of drunk walking become apparent. Pedestrians under the influence of alcohol may be less likely to use crosswalks and more likely to cross against the traffic lights. Alcohol use is connected to more serious injuries with longer hospital stays if a pedestrian is hit by a vehicle.\n\nU.S. department of transportation data from 2009 reported that 4,092 pedestrians were killed and 13.6% of them were under the influence of alcohol, drugs or medication. Pedestrian injury accounts for 11% of all road user fatalities. In the United States in 2006 there were 4,784 fatalities and 61,000 injuries from pedestrian injury. In 2007 there were 4,654 fatalities and 70,000 injuries. In Canada, injury is the prominent source of death for those under 45 years of age and the fourth most collective reason of death for all ages. Traumatic pedestrian injury results in nearly 4,000 hospitalisations in Canada yearly. The outcome of these injuries come from the interaction of environmental factors changing.\n\nIn 2011, the Pedestrian Council of Australia launched a campaign called \"Never Let a Mate Walk Home Drunk\", in an effort to curb the high number of pedestrians killed on Australian roads. 20% of pedestrians killed on Australian roads have a BAC exceeding 0.05%, and 30% of those killed or seriously injured have a BAC over 0.08%.\n\nBetween 2003-2006 in Adelaide there were 40 pedestrian fatalities, and of those 12 were found to be drunk. In three or four of these cases it was found that they were either lying or sitting on the ground at night. In Australia, men are the biggest culprits with a study done between 1998-2002 with 38% of fatal incidents to pedestrians happening to males ages 15–54, and out of those 78% were over the legal limit to drive.\n\n"}
{"id": "28989739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28989739", "title": "Epidemiology of bed bugs", "text": "Epidemiology of bed bugs\n\nBed bugs occur around the world. Rates of infestations in developed countries while decreasing from the 1930s to the 1980s have increased dramatically since the 1980s. Previous to this they were common in the developing world but rare in the developed world. The increase in the developed world may have been caused by increased international travel, resistance to insecticides, and the use of new pest-control methods that do not affect bed bugs.\n\nThe fall in bed bug populations after the 1930s in the developed world is believed to be partly due to the usage of DDT to kill cockroaches, which are a natural predator of the bed bug. The invention of the vacuum cleaner and simplification of furniture design may have also played a role. Others believe it might simply be the cyclical nature of the organism.\n\nBed bugs are increasing in Europe, USA, Canada and Australia. The infestations have been occurring in a wide range of facilities in the developed world in recent years including: hotels (from backpacker to five star), overnight trains, private homes, cruise ships, schools, hospitals and homeless shelters. These infestations are occasionally of both types of bed bugs (common and tropical). The increased rates of infestations have been matched by increased media coverage. Pest management companies have also seen a many fold increase in calls regarding bed bugs during the 2000s.\n\nFigures from one London borough show reported bed bug infestations doubling each year from 1995 to 2001. There is also evidence of a previous cycle of bed bug infestations in the U.K. in the mid-1980s. In 2010 the increase of infestation in UK was estimated to be around 24%. In the hot summer of 2018 it was reported that bedbug infestations had been increasing year-on-year in UK cities since 2006, with no sign of levelling off. This was considered likely to be due to increased temperatures. Bedbugs were commonly found in seats on London buses and Tube trains.\n\nBed bugs have been reported in all 50 states. The U.S. National Pest Management Association reported a 71% increase in bed bug calls between 2000 and 2005. The Steritech Group, a pest-management company based in Charlotte, North Carolina, claimed that 25% of the 700 hotels they surveyed between 2002 and 2006 needed bed bug treatment. The resurgence led the United States Environmental Protection Agency to hold a National Bed Bug Summit in 2009.\n\nNumbers of reported incidents in New York City rose from 500 in 2004 to 10,000 in 2009 mostly in Brooklyn area. In August, 2010, bed bugs were found in the Elle Fashion Hachette building in New York City. After suspected infestation, a beagle trained in sniffing bed bugs was used to confirm their presence. Office workers were told to work from home while the building was being treated. Although largely thought to only cause problems in less maintained and dirty environments, there is an increasing incidence of bed bugs for infesting indoor environments of high maintenance standards.\n\nOne recent theory about bed bug reappearance is that they never truly disappeared from the United States, but may have been forced to alternative hosts. Consistent with this is the finding the bed bug DNA shows no evidence of an evolutionary bottleneck. Furthermore, investigators have found high populations of bed bugs at poultry facilities in Arkansas. Poultry workers at these facilities may be spreading bed bugs, unknowingly carrying them to their places of residence and elsewhere after leaving work.\n\nIn November 2016 a media report noted that tropical bed bugs, \"Cimex hemipterus\", which had been extirpated from the state during World War II, were discovered in Brevard County, Florida and were expected to spread in distribution within the United States.\n\nBed bug infestations have been becoming an increasing issue in urban environments. In a Toronto, Canada study, the mean number of treatments required per affected location was highest at dormitories, hotels, homeless shelters, and rooming houses. Suspected reasons for this increase include increasing world travel, high exchange rates of residents, reluctance to use insecticides because of concerns regarding toxicity, and insecticide resistance. 65 Toronto homeless shelters were surveyed and 31% reported past or present bed bug infestations.\n\nBed bugs have historically been only a particular problem in developed countries in which they occur both in rural settings and urban setting associated with overcrowding.\n\n"}
{"id": "15771891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15771891", "title": "Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007", "text": "Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007\n\nPresident of the United States George W. Bush signed the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (FDAAA) on September 27, 2007. This law reviewed, expanded, and reaffirmed several existing pieces of legislation regulating the FDA. These changes allow the FDA to perform more comprehensive reviews of potential new drugs and devices. It was sponsored by Reps. Joe Barton and Frank Pallone and passed unanimously by the Senate.\n\nThe FDAAA extended the authority to levy fees to companies applying for approval of drugs, expanded clinical trial guidelines for pediatric drugs, and created the priority review voucher program. \n\nTitle I amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to include post-marketing safety activities in the review of drug application. This included developing and using improved adverse event data collection systems and improved analytical tools to assess potential safety problems and conducting screenings of the Adverse Event Reporting System database and reporting on new safety concerns.\n\nIt also reauthorizes the Prescription Drug User Fee Act. The PFUDA was first enacted in 1992 to allow the FDA to collect application fees from pharmaceutical companies when applying for approval for a drug. Since then, it has been reauthorized three times; first in 1997, then 2002, and most recently with the passage of the FDAAA in 2007. The purpose of these fees is to provide resources to the FDA that help them more effectively review potential new drugs. The most recent reauthorization will further expand on the previous policy. It aims to broaden and upgrade the drug safety program, allocate more resources for television advertising, and theoretically allow the FDA to more efficiently review and approve safe and effective new drugs for consumers.\n\nIt requires the FDA, through the authority of the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide a partial refund of an applicant's user fees if the application is withdrawn without a waiver before filing.\n\nIt sets forth special rules for positron emission tomography drugs, including subjecting an applicant in a drug application for a PET drug to one-sixth of the annual prescription drug establishment fee.\n\nIt exempts approved drugs or biological products designated for a rare disease (orphan drugs) from product and establishment fees if certain requirements are met, including that the drug is owned/licensed and marketed by a company having gross worldwide revenues that fall below a certain amount.\n\nTitle II is given the short title of \"Medical Device User Fee Amendments\" (MDUFA). It defines terms relating to fees for medical devices. \"30-day notice\" is defined as a notice of a supplement to an approved application that is limited to a request to make modifications to manufacturing procedures or methods affecting the safety and effectiveness of the device.\n\nIt makes changes to medical device fees, including establishing a fee for a 30-day notice, a request for classification information, and periodic reporting for a class III device.\n\nIt extends the authority of accredited people (third parties) to review premarket reports for devices and make recommendations to the FDA regarding the classification of devices.\n\nIt requires any establishment in a foreign country engaged in the manufacturing or processing of a drug or device that is imported into the US to annually register with the FDA.\n\nTitle III requires applications for a humanitarian device exemption, an application for premarket approval of a medical device, or a product development protocol for a medical device to include, if available, a description of any pediatric subpopulations that suffer from the disease that the device is intended for, and the number of affected pediatric patients.\n\nIt requires the FDA to submit an annual report to congressional committees that includes: (1) the number of devices approved in the preceding year for which there is a pediatric subpopulation that suffers from the disease; (2) the number of approved devices labeled for use in pediatric patients; (3) the number of fee-exempt devices approved; and (4) the review time for each approved device.\n\nIt authorizes the FDA to determine that adult data on medical devices may be used to support claims of effectiveness in pediatric populations if the course of the disease and the effects of the device are sufficiently similar in adults and pediatric patients.\n\nIt excludes a person granted a humanitarian device exemption from the prohibition against selling the device for an amount that exceeds its research and development, fabrication, and distribution costs if: (1) the device is intended to treat or diagnose a disease or condition that occurs in pediatric patients; (2) the device was not approved for pediatric patients prior to enactment of this Act; (3) the number of devices distributed does not exceed an annual distribution number specified by the Secretary; and (4) the request for exemption is submitted on or before October 1, 2012.\n\nTitle IV requires an applicant seeking to defer submission of some or all pediatric assessments of the safety and effectiveness of a new drug or biological product to submit to the FDA a timeline for the completion of pediatric studies. It also sets forth annual reporting requirements for an applicant following the approval of such a deferral.\n\nIt requires that an applicant seeking waiver of pediatric assessment submission requirements on the grounds that a pediatric formulation cannot be developed, to submit documentation detailing why a pediatric formulation cannot be developed. It also authorizes the FDA to require submission of a pediatric assessment if the Secretary finds that adequate pediatric labeling could confer a benefit on pediatric patients or the absence of adequate pediatric labeling could pose a significant risk to pediatric patients.\n\nTitle V has the short title \"Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act\". \n\nIt amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to revise provisions regarding market exclusivity for pediatric drug studies on new or already approved drugs, including to change the definition of \"pediatric studies\" to authorize the Secretary to include preclinical studies, to require the studies to be completed using appropriate formulations for each age group for which such a study is requested, and to prohibit the FDA from extending the period of market exclusivity later than nine months prior to the expiration of the period.\n\nIt requires an applicant that does not agree to the request for a pediatric study to submit to the Secretary the reasons such pediatric formulations cannot be developed, and requires an applicant that agrees to the request to provide the Secretary with all post-marketing adverse event reports regarding the drug.\n\nIt directs the FDA to: (1) publish a notice identifying any drug for which a pediatric formulation was developed, studied, and found to be safe and effective in the pediatric population if the pediatric formulation is not introduced onto the market within one year after the determination regarding market exclusivity; (2) utilize the internal review committee to review all written requests for pediatric studies issued; (3) track and make publicly available information on the pediatric studies conducted; (4) order the labeling of a product to include information about the results of the study and a statement that a pediatric study does or does not demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective in pediatric populations; and (5) ensure that all adverse event reports that have been received for a drug are referred to the Office of Pediatric Therapeutics. It prescribes actions for the FDA to take if pediatric studies have not been completed and there is a continuing need for information relating to the use of the drug in the pediatric population.\n\nIt requires the pediatric subcommittee of the Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee to provide recommendations to the internal review committee that reviews pediatric research requests with respect to the treatment of pediatric cancer.\n\nThe Pediatric Trials Network serves as the mechanism by which many studies on off-patent drugs are performed, in keeping with the BPCA objective of ensuring accurate drug labeling for children.\n\nTitle VI establishes the Reagan-Udall Foundation for the Food and Drug Administration as a nonprofit corporation to advance the mission of the FDA to modernize product development, accelerate innovation, and enhance product safety. It requires the Foundation to: (1) identify unmet needs in the development, manufacture, and evaluation of the safety and effectiveness of such products; (2) establish goals and priorities; (3) identify federal research and development programs and minimize duplication; (4) award grants to scientists and entities to efficiently and effectively advance such goals and priorities; and (5) provide objective clinical and scientific information to the FDA and other federal agencies. \n\nIt requires the FDA to establish an Office of the Chief Scientist to: (1) oversee, coordinate, and ensure quality and regulatory focus of FDA intramural research programs; (2) track and coordinate intramural research awards made by each FDA center or science-based office; (3) develop and advocate for a budget to support intramural research; (4) develop a peer review process by which intramural research can be evaluated; (5) identify and solicit intramural research proposals from across the FDA; and (6) develop additional post-marketing safety performance measures.\n\nTitle VII places limits on who can serve on an FDA advisory committee. It directs the FDA to implement strategies on effective outreach to potential members of advisory committees and to review the expertise and financial disclosure report of an individual when considering an appointment to an advisory committee. It prohibits any member of an advisory committee from participating with respect to any matter in which the member has a financial interest, unless the member is granted a waiver in order to afford the advisory committee essential expertise. The number of waivers is limited and decreases as a percentage of committee members over several years.\n\nTitle VIII is in regard to clinicaltrials.gov. It amends the Public Health Service Act to require the FDA, acting through the Director of NIH, to expand the clinical trials registry data bank. It requires the Director to ensure that the data bank is made publicly available through the Internet and requires the FDA to ensure that the data bank includes links to results information for those clinical trials that form the primary basis of an efficacy claim or are conducted after the drug or device involved is approved or cleared.\n\nTitle IX prohibits a \"responsible person\" from introducing into interstate commerce a new drug, if the person is in violation of a requirement related to post-approval clinical trials or labeling changes.\n\nIt authorizes the FDA to require a responsible person for a drug to conduct a post-approval study or clinical trial of the drug to assess a known serious risk or signals of a serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk, to require a postapproval study or clinical trial for an already approved drug only if the Secretary becomes aware of new safety information, and to issue an order directing a responsible person or holder of an approved application to make a labeling change to address new safety information.\n\nIt prohibits a person from introducing into interstate commerce a new drug or biological product for which a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy is required if the person fails to maintain compliance with the requirements of such strategy.\n\nIt requires a proposed risk evaluation and management strategy to include a timetable for assessment of the strategy and allows the FDA to require such a strategy to include additional elements, including distribution to each patient of a Medication Guide and a patient package insert, a communication plan to health care providers, and assurances of safe use.\n\nIt establishes the Drug Safety Oversight Board.\n\nIt authorizes the FDA to require the submission of any TV advertisement for a drug for review before it can be broadcast, to make recommendations with respect to information included in the label of the drug or on statements for inclusion in advertisements but not \"require\" changes in such advertisements, and to require inclusion in advertisements of certain disclosures about a serious risk listed in the labeling of the drug.\n\nIt requires the FDA to issue special guidance for clinical trials of antibiotics. \n\nIt prohibits interstate commerce of any food that has an approved drug, licensed biological product, or certain other drugs or biological products added, unless the drug or biological product was marketed in food prior to approval, licensure, or clinical investigation, the FDA has approved the use of such drug or biological product in the food, or the use of the drug or the biological product is to enhance the safety or preservation of the food and not intended to have biological or therapeutic effects and the use is in conformity with specified regulations.\n\nIt requires the FDA to develop standards to secure the drug supply chain against counterfeit, diverted, substandard, adulterated, misbranded, or expired drugs, to prioritize and develop standards for the identification and validation of prescription drugs, to develop a standardized numerical identifier for prescription drugs, and to expand resources and facilities for securing the drug supply chain.\n\nIt requires the Advisory Committee on Risk Communication to regularly perform a comprehensive review of the types of risk information provided on the website and to recommend ways for the FDA to work with outside entities to help facilitate communication of risk.\n\nIt requires that certain information related to a new drug application be published on the FDA's website, including documents related to the review of an application and a summary of conclusions from all reviewing disciplines about the drug. It stipulates that a scientific review of an application is considered the work of the reviewer and prohibits the altering of such work by management or the reviewer once it is final.\n\nIt directs the FDA to publish and update quarterly a complete list of all authorized generic drugs on the FDA's website.\n\nTitle X requires the FDA to work with companies, professional associations, and other organizations during an ongoing recall of food regulated by the FDA to collect and aggregate information, to use existing networks to enhance the quality and speed of public communication, and to post information regarding recalled food on the FDA's website in a single location.\n\nIt requires the FDA to work with states to assist in improving the safety of food. It requires a responsible person who determines that an article of food is a reportable food to submit a report to the FDA within 24 hours and to investigate the cause of the adulteration if the adulteration may have originated with the responsible person. It requires the FDA to immediately notify the Secretary of Homeland Security if the FDA believes food reported to the registry may have been deliberately adulterated. \n\nIt requires the FDA to produce a report on any environmental risks associated with genetically engineered seafood products and sets forth reporting requirements with respect to food products regulated by the FDA.\n\nTitle XI requires the FDA to identify and periodically update clinically susceptible concentrations (specific values that characterize bacteria as clinically susceptible, intermediate, or resistant to the drug tested). \nIt directs the FDA to convene a public meeting regarding which infectious diseases potentially qualify for available grants and contracts under the Orphan Drug Act or other incentives for development, and amends the Orphan Drug Act to reauthorize appropriations for grants and contracts to defray the costs of testing for the development of drugs, medical devices, and medical foods for rare diseases.\n\nIt allows an applicant for a non-racemic drug containing as an active ingredient a single enantiomer that is contained in a racemic drug approved in another application to elect to have the single enantiomer considered the same active ingredient as that contained in the approved racemic drug under certain circumstances.\n\nIt requires the HHS Secretary to enter into a contract with the Institute of Medicine to conduct a study to assess the overall safety and quality of genetic tests and prepare a report that includes recommendations to improve federal oversight and regulation of genetic tests.\n\nTitle XI also created the priority review voucher program. This requires the FDA to award a transferable, priority review voucher to the sponsor of a tropical disease product application upon approval by the Secretary of such application and establish a priority review user fee program. In this Act, only tropical diseases were covered under this program to incentivize the development of neglected tropical diseases. In 2012, this was expanded to include rare pediatric conditions. As of 2017, 13 priority review vouchers have been awarded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "416493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416493", "title": "Food libel laws", "text": "Food libel laws\n\nFood libel laws, also known as food disparagement laws and informally as veggie libel laws, are laws passed in thirteen U.S. states that make it easier for food producers to sue their critics for libel. These thirteen states are Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota and Texas. Many of the food-disparagement laws establish a lower standard for civil liability and allow for punitive damages and attorney's fees for plaintiffs alone, regardless of the case's outcome.\n\nThese laws vary significantly from state to state, but food libel laws typically allow a food manufacturer or processor to sue a person or group who makes disparaging comments about their food products. In some states these laws also establish different standards of proof than are used in traditional American libel lawsuits, including the practice of placing the burden of proof on the party being sued.\n\nIn 1998, television talk-show host Oprah Winfrey and one of her guests, Howard Lyman, were involved in a lawsuit, commonly referred to as the Amarillo Texas beef trial, surrounding the Texas version of a food libel law known as the \"False Disparagement of Perishable Food Products Act of 1995\", for a 1996 episode of her show in which the two made disparaging comments about beef in relation to mad cow disease. Although they were not the first people to be sued using this type of legal action, this case created a media sensation.\n\nIn a normal U.S. libel suit, the plaintiff must prove that the defendant is deliberately and knowingly spreading false information. Under the Texas food disparagement law under which Winfrey and Lyman were sued, the plaintiffs — in this case, beef feedlot operator Paul Engler and the company Cactus Feeders — had to convince the jury that Lyman's statements on Winfrey's show were not \"based on reasonable and reliable scientific inquiry, facts, or data.\" As a basis for the damages sought in the lawsuit, the plaintiffs noted that cattle futures dropped 10 percent the day after the episode, and that beef prices fell from 62 cents to 55 cents per pound. Engler's attorneys argued that the rancher lost $6.7 million, and the plaintiffs sought to recoup total losses of more than $12 million.\n\nThe jury in the case found that the statements by Winfrey and Lyman did not constitute libel against the cattlemen. However, Winfrey no longer speaks publicly on the issue, going so far as to decline to make videotapes of the original interview available to enquiring journalists.\n\nA long-running legal case in Britain is an example of the application of food libel principles to existing law. \"McDonald's Restaurants versus Morris & Steel\" (also known as the \"McLibel case\") was an English lawsuit filed by McDonald's Corporation against environmental activists Helen Steel and David Morris (often referred to as \"The McLibel Two\") over a pamphlet critical of the company. The original case lasted ten years, making it the longest-running court action in English history. A feature-length documentary film, \"McLibel\", was created about the case by filmmaker Franny Armstrong.\n\nAlthough McDonald's won two hearings of the case in English court, the partial nature of the victory, the David-vs-Goliath nature of the case, and the drawn-out litigation embarrassed the company. McDonald's announced that it did not plan to collect the £40,000 that it was awarded by the courts. Since then, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has ruled that the trial violated Articles 6 (right to a fair trial) because the defendants had been refused legal aid and had only been represented by volunteer lawyers, and Article 10 (right to freedom of expression) of the Convention on Human Rights, again because the defendants had been refused legal aid, and awarded a judgment of £57,000 against the UK government. (McDonald's itself was not a defendant in this appeal.) On February 15, 2005, the pair's 20-year battle with McDonald's came to an end with this judgment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31200615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31200615", "title": "Fukushima 50", "text": "Fukushima 50\n\nFukushima 50 is the pseudonym given by the media to a group of employees at the crippled Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant. Following the Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami on 11 March 2011, a related series of nuclear accidents resulted in melting of the cores of three reactors. These 50 employees remained on-site after 750 other workers were evacuated.\n\nAfter TEPCO management proposed withdrawing all its employees from the plant on 14 March, additional manpower was deployed from around Japan. Some workers traveled on clear roads by convoy from Tokyo. When they arrived, hundreds of firemen, SDF personnel and employees of TEPCO, convened 20 km from the plant and debated how to best stabilize the plant. On the night of 15 March, these workers joined the original Fukushima 50. Despite the incorrect figure of workers, the Fukushima 50 has remained the pseudonym used by media to refer to the group of workers at Fukushima reflecting the solitary nature of the role.\n\nThe number of the workers involved rose to 580 on the morning of 18 March as staff from the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant and workers installing the new power line joined in. More than 1,000 workers, firefighters and soldiers were toiling at the site on 23 March. The Fukushima 50 were drawn from Toshiba, Hitachi, Kajima, firefighters from Tokyo, , , , and , TEPCO and its subsidiaries such as , and , and many small-to-mid-size companies that have contracts with these big companies.\n\nOver 20 workers had been injured by 18 March, including one who was exposed to a large amount of ionizing radiation when the worker tried to vent vapour from a valve of the containment building. Three more workers were exposed to radiation over 100 mSv, and two of them were sent to a hospital due to beta burns on 24 March. Two other workers, Kazuhiko Kokubo, 24, and Yoshiki Terashima, 21, were killed by the tsunami while conducting emergency repairs immediately after the quake. Their bodies were found on 30 March.\n\nThe workers and volunteers were assigned the mission of stabilizing the reactors.\nTheir activities included assessing the damage and radiation levels caused by the explosions, cooling stricken reactors with seawater and preventing any risk of fire. These workers remained on-site despite risks of radiation poisoning. Levels of radiation on site are far higher than in the 20 km exclusion zone and media outlets reported that the severity of the situation could have grave implications on their future health, with possibly fatal consequences for the workers. On 18 March, according to Prime Minister Naoto Kan the workers were \"prepared for death\".\n\nOn 14 March, a complete withdrawal proposed by TEPCO was rejected by the prime minister, to continue attempts at bringing the reactors under control during the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.\n\nThe workers ate and slept in shifts in a two-story earthquake-resistant building at the center of the complex constructed in July 2010, about \"the size of an average living room.\"\n\n\nDuring some work, in high radiation areas, the workers were limited to 15-minute sessions inside the damaged buildings.\n\nThe international limit for radiation exposure for nuclear workers is 20 millisievert (20 mSv, or 2 rem) per year, averaged over five years, with a limit of 50 mSv in any one year, however for workers performing emergency services United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) guidance on dose limits is 100 mSv when \"protecting valuable property\" and 250 mSv when the activity is \"life saving or protection of large populations.\"\n\nPrior to the accident, the maximum permissible dose for Japanese nuclear workers was 100 mSv in any one year, but on 15 March 2011, the Japanese Health and Labor Ministry enforced the permitted 250 mSv limit, in light of the situation at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant. However, the workers at Fukushima plant declined the elevated 250 mSv limit and kept adopting the previous 100 mSv. Tokyo Enesys, a TEPCO's subsidiary, adopts 80 mSv to manage the radiation level monitoring with some buffer. Kandenko, Kajima and Taisei Corporation adopted 100 mSv. Hitachi rewrote internal rule as 200 mSv. TEPCO decided to move workers around 200mSv to low-radiated site while its subsidiaries, Tokyo Enesys and Kandenko, adopted limits around 100mSv. Over 30 workers were radiated beyond 100 mSv by 23 April 2011.\n\nAccording to the Guardian, the Fukushima workers had to be wary of radiation spiking—a sudden and unforeseen rise in radiation. This threat forced the workers to evacuate for a short period of time on the morning of Tuesday 15 March 2011 when radiation detected at Fukushima rose to approximately 1000 mSv/h, the highest level of radiation detected at any point of time during the accident at the plant.\n\nThe workers wore hazmat suits and hazmat masks, carrying dosimeters that alerted at 80 millisieverts. Each worker had to stop the operation once the dosimeter alerted. According to TEPCO, seven TEPCO workers were exposed to radiation over the limit of 100 millisievert by the morning of 20 March.\n\nIn context, immediate symptoms become apparent if exposed to above 250 mSv per day. Symptoms include nausea and loss of appetite as well as damage to bone marrow, lymph nodes and the spleen. Generally, these symptoms become more severe and noticeable in the 1000 to 3000 mSv bracket with recovery probable, but not assured. New and more serious symptoms appear above 3000 mSv such as peeling of the skin, hemorrhaging and sterility with death if left untreated.\n\nThe Fukushima 50 were present when hydrogen explosions occurred at the reactor buildings of units 1, 3, and 4. Five workers were injured in the unit 1 explosion at 15:36 on 12 March. Most of the injuries were not severe. Eleven workers were injured in the unit 3 explosion at 11:01 on 14 March. The explosion at unit 4 at about 6am on 15 March did not cause injuries. The explosions scattered radioactive concrete debris around the buildings, which made the working conditions on the site more difficult.\n\nOriginally there were approximately 800 workers on 11 March 2011, the day the earthquake and tsunami struck. On 15 March, workers deemed non-essential were withdrawn by the Tokyo Electric Power Company. A total of around 750 workers left due to increased risk and consequently left around 50. It was on this day that the media started to call the remaining workers the \"Fukushima 50\".\n\nHowever, on the morning of the 16 March the remaining workers had to be evacuated for a brief period of time due to a radiation spike which was detected which could be harmful to the workers' health. It was reported that when they returned to the plant, a further 130 or so workers joined their colleagues to total of around 180 to stabilize the reactors. The number of workers rose to 580 on the morning of the 18 March. By 12 April, approximately 700 workers were working on-site.\n\nBy 21 March 2011, Toshiba had sent a 100-strong team to two Fukushima plants as part of a task-force of 700 Toshiba workers organized at Toshiba's Isogo Engineering Centre to defuse the nuclear crisis, and Hitachi had dispatched 120 to Fukushima I and formed a 1000-strong task force.\n\nReferring to the original 50 workers, nuclear researcher Dr. Eric Hall opined that they were likely to be older, and unlikely to have further children, so the long-term effects of exposure to high-levels of ionizing radiation would be less likely to appear before a natural death. Some younger workers were injured and young Osaka firefighters were operating at the site. A group of 250 skilled senior citizens volunteered to work in the radioactive environment, citing reduced harm to them.\n\nTeam leader Masao Yoshida died of esophageal cancer in 2013, but the cancer was likely to be unrelated to the event at Fukushima, as development typically takes 5–10 years.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>: task finished\n\nOver 20 workers were injured by 18 March. Three workers were exposed to radiation and two were rushed to a hospital with up to 180 mSv, which is less than the maximum 250 mSv that the government allowed for workers at the plant. Both workers, one in his twenties and one in his thirties, were from and were regular workers at Fukushima II nuclear power plant. Another worker was from a contract company of Kandenko.\n\nMedia outlets lauded the remaining workers' bravery, and called them \"heroes\", and as a result they have become known in the media as the \"Fukushima 50\". \"France 24\" called them \"Japan's faceless heroes\", British newspaper, \"The Guardian\" wrote: \"Other nuclear power employees, as well as the wider population, can only look on in admiration\". They have been compared to the Forty-seven Ronin. In Hong Kong, a group of netizens at HKGolden Forum dedicated Cantonese and Japanese lyrics based on a Cantopop song, entitled \"福島烈士─向福島50人致敬\" (\"Martyr of Fukushima - Tribute to the Fukushima Fifty\"), to the workers.\n\nAccording to Robert Hetkämper, a correspondent for the German television network ARD, the label \"Fukushima 50\" was invented by a foreign newspaper, and then was imported by the Japanese media. The \"Fukushima 50\" would include engineers as well as unskilled workers, and there would be grounds to suspect that many workers were not really aware of the dangers of their assignment.\n\nOn 7 September 2011, the \"Fukushima Heroes\" were honored with the Prince of Asturias Award for Peace, an award given by the Crown Prince of Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15738568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15738568", "title": "Functional hypothalamic amenorrhea", "text": "Functional hypothalamic amenorrhea\n\nFunctional hypothalamic amenorrhea is a form of amenorrhea. It is caused by hypogonadism related to defective functioning of the hypothalamus. It is one of the most common types of secondary amenorrhea.\n"}
{"id": "68349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68349", "title": "HFE hereditary haemochromatosis", "text": "HFE hereditary haemochromatosis\n\nHaemochromatosis (or hemochromatosis) type 1 autosomal recessive hereditary type of hemochromatosis characterized by excessive intestinal absorption of dietary iron resulting in a pathological increase in total body iron stores. Humans, like most animals, have no means to excrete excess iron. \n\nExcess iron accumulates in tissues and organs disrupting their normal function. The most susceptible organs include the liver, adrenal glands, heart, skin, gonads, joints, and the pancreas; patients can present with cirrhosis, polyarthropathy, adrenal insufficiency, heart failure or diabetes. \n\nThe hereditary form of the disease is most common among those of Northern European ancestry, in particular those of Celtic descent. The disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.\n\nHaemochromatosis is protean in its manifestations, \"i.e.\", often presenting with signs or symptoms suggestive of other diagnoses that affect specific organ systems. Many of the signs and symptoms below are uncommon and most patients with the hereditary form of haemochromatosis do not show any overt signs of disease nor do they suffer premature morbidity.\n\nPresently, the classic triad of cirrhosis, bronze skin and diabetes is less common because of earlier diagnosis.\n\nThe more common clinical manifestations include:\n\n\nLess common findings including:\n\nMales are usually diagnosed after their forties and fifties, and women several decades later, owing to regular iron loss through menstruation (which ceases in menopause). The severity of clinical disease in the hereditary form varies considerably. There is evidence suggesting that hereditary haemochromatosis patients affected with other liver ailments such as hepatitis or alcoholic liver disease suffer worse liver disease than those with either condition alone. There are also juvenile forms of hereditary haemochromatosis that present in childhood with the same consequences of iron overload.\n\nIron is stored in the liver, the pancreas and the heart. Long-term effects of haemochromatosis on these organs can be very serious, even fatal when untreated. For example, similar to alcoholism, haemochromatosis can cause cirrhosis of the liver. The liver is a primary storage area for iron and will naturally accumulate excess iron. Over time the liver is likely to be damaged by iron overload. Cirrhosis itself may lead to additional and more serious complications, including bleeding from dilated veins in the esophagus (esophageal varices) and stomach (gastric varices) and severe fluid retention in the abdomen (ascites). Toxins may accumulate in the blood and eventually affect mental functioning. This can lead to confusion or even coma (hepatic encephalopathy).\n\nLiver cancer: Cirrhosis and haemochromatosis together will increase the risk of liver cancer. (Nearly one-third of people with haemochromatosis and cirrhosis eventually develop liver cancer.)\n\nDiabetes: The pancreas which also stores iron is very important in the body’s mechanisms for sugar metabolism. Diabetes affects the way the body uses blood sugar (glucose). Diabetes is in turn the leading cause of new blindness in adults and may be involved in kidney failure and cardiovascular disease.\n\nCongestive heart failure: If excess iron in the heart interferes with the its ability to circulate enough blood, a number of problems can occur, even death. The condition may be reversible when haemochromatosis is treated and excess iron stores reduced.\n\nHeart arrhythmias: Arrhythmia or abnormal heart rhythms can cause heart palpitations, chest pain and light-headedness and are occasionally life-threatening. This condition can often be reversed with treatment for haemochromatosis.\n\nPigment changes: Bronze or grey coloration of the skin is caused primarily by increased melanin deposition, with iron deposition playing a lesser role.\n\nThe regulation of dietary iron absorption is complex and our understanding is incomplete. One of the better characterized genes responsible for hereditary haemochromatosis is HFE on chromosome 6, which codes for a protein that participates in the regulation of iron absorption. The HFE gene has two common mutations, C282Y and H63D. The C282Y allele is a transition point mutation from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 845 in the HFE gene, resulting in a missense mutation that replaces the cysteine residue at position 282 with a tyrosine amino acid. Heterozygotes for either allele do not manifest clinical iron overload but may display an increased iron uptake.\n\nMutations of the HFE gene account for 90% of the cases of non-transfusional iron overload. This gene is closely linked to the HLA-A3 locus. Homozygosity for the C282Y mutation is the most common genotype responsible for clinical iron accumulation, though heterozygosity for C282Y/H63D mutations, so-called compound heterozygotes, results in clinically evident iron overload. There is considerable debate regarding the penetrance—the probability of clinical expression of the trait given the genotype— for clinical disease in homozygotes. Most, if not all, males homozygous for HFE C282Y will show manifestations of liver dysfunction such as elevated liver-specific enzymes such as serum gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) by late middle age. Homozygous females can delay the onset of iron accumulation because of iron loss through menstruation.\n\nEach patient with the susceptible genotype accumulates iron at different rates depending on iron intake, the exact nature of the mutation, and the presence of other insults to the liver such as alcohol and viral disease. As such the degree to which the liver and other organs is affected is highly variable and is dependent on these factors and co-morbidities as well as age at which they are studied for manifestations of disease. Penetrance differs between populations.\n\nSince the regulation of iron metabolism is still poorly understood, a clear model of how haemochromatosis operates is still not available. A working model describes the defect in the HFE gene, where a mutation puts the intestinal absorption of iron into overdrive. Normally, HFE facilitates the binding of transferrin, which is iron's carrier protein in the blood. Transferrin levels are typically elevated at times of iron depletion (low ferritin stimulates the release of transferrin from the liver). When transferrin is high, HFE works to increase the intestinal release of iron into the blood. When HFE is mutated, the intestines perpetually interpret a strong transferrin signal as if the body were deficient in iron. This leads to maximal iron absorption from ingested foods and iron overload in the tissues. However, HFE is only part of the story, since many patients with mutated HFE do not manifest clinical iron overload, and some patients with iron overload have a normal HFE genotype. A possible explanation is the fact that HFE normally plays a role in the production of hepcidin in the liver, a function that is impaired in HFE mutations.\n\nPeople with abnormal iron regulatory genes do not reduce their absorption of iron in response to increased iron levels in the body. Thus the iron stores of the body increase. As they increase, the iron which is initially stored as ferritin is deposited in organs as haemosiderin and this is toxic to tissue, probably at least partially by inducing oxidative stress. Iron is a pro-oxidant. Thus, haemochromatosis shares common symptomology (e.g., cirrhosis and dyskinetic symptoms) with other \"pro-oxidant\" diseases such as Wilson's disease, chronic manganese poisoning, and hyperuricaemic syndrome in Dalmatian dogs. The latter also experience \"bronzing\".\n\nThe diagnosis of haemochromatosis is often made following the incidental finding on routine blood screening of elevated serum liver enzymes or elevation of the transferrin saturation. Arthropathy with stiff joints, diabetes, or fatigue, may be the presenting complaint.\n\nSerum transferrin and transferrin saturation are commonly used as screening for haemochromatosis. Transferrin binds iron and is responsible for iron transport in the blood. Measuring transferrin provides a crude measure of iron stores in the body. Fasting transferrin saturation values in excess of 45% for males or 35% in premenopausal women (i.e. 300 ng/L in males and 200 ng/L in females) are recognized as a threshold for further evaluation of haemochromatosis. Transferrin saturation greater than 62% is suggestive of homozygosity for mutations in the HFE gene.\n\nSerum Ferritin: Ferritin, a protein synthesized by the liver is the primary form of iron storage within cells and tissues. Measuring ferritin provides another crude estimate of whole body iron stores though many conditions, particularly inflammation (but also chronic alcohol consumption, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and others), can elevate serum ferritin - which can account for up to 90% of cases where elevated levels are observed. Normal values for males are 12–300 ng/ml (nanograms per millilitre) and for female, 12–150 ng/ml. Serum ferritin in excess of 1000 nanograms per millilitre of blood is almost always attributable to haemochromatosis.\n\nOther blood tests routinely performed: blood count, renal function, liver enzymes, electrolytes, glucose (and/or an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)).\n\nLiver biopsies involve taking a sample of tissue from the liver, using a thin needle. The amount of iron in the sample is then quantified and compared to normal, and evidence of liver damage, especially cirrhosis, measured microscopically. Formerly, this was the only way to confirm a diagnosis of haemochromatosis but measures of transferrin and ferritin along with a history are considered adequate in determining the presence of the malady. Risks of biopsy include bruising, bleeding and infection. Now, when a history and measures of transferrin or ferritin point to haemochromatosis, it is debatable whether a liver biopsy is still necessary to quantify the amount of accumulated iron.\n\nMRI-based testing is a non-invasive and accurate alternative to measure liver iron concentrations.\n\nClinically the disease may be silent, but characteristic radiological features may point to the diagnosis. The increased iron stores in the organs involved, especially in the liver and pancreas, result in characteristic findings on unenhanced CT and a decreased signal intensity in MRI scans. Haemochromatosis arthropathy includes degenerative osteoarthritis and chondrocalcinosis. The distribution of the arthropathy is distinctive, but not unique, frequently affecting the second and third metacarpophalangeal joints of the hand. The arthropathy can therefore be an early clue as to the diagnosis of haemochromatosis.\n\nBased on the history, the doctor might consider specific tests to monitor organ dysfunction, such as an echocardiogram for heart failure, or blood glucose monitoring for patients with haemochromatosis diabetes.\n\nThere exist other causes of excess iron accumulation, which have to be considered before haemochromatosis is diagnosed.\n\nStandard diagnostic measures for haemochromatosis, transferrin saturation and ferritin tests, are not a part of routine medical testing. Screening for haemochromatosis is recommended if the patient has a parent, child or sibling with the disease.\n\nRoutine screening of the general population for hereditary haemochromatosis is generally not done. Mass genetic screening has been evaluated by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), among other groups. The USPSTF recommended against genetic screening of the general population for hereditary haemochromatosis because the likelihood of discovering an undiagnosed patient with clinically relevant iron overload is less than 1 in 1,000. Although there is strong evidence that treatment of iron overload can save lives in patients with transfusional iron overload, no clinical study has shown that for asymptomatic carriers of hereditary haemochromatosis treatment with venesection (phlebotomy) provides any clinical benefit. Recently, it has been suggested that patients be screened for iron overload using serum ferritin as a marker: If serum ferritin exceeds 1000 ng/mL, iron overload is very likely the cause.\n\nEarly diagnosis is vital as the late effects of iron accumulation can be wholly prevented by periodic phlebotomies (by venesection) comparable in volume to blood donations. Initiation of treatment is recommended when ferritin levels reach 500 micrograms per litre.\n\nPhlebotomy (or bloodletting) is usually done at a weekly interval until ferritin levels are less than 50 micrograms per litre. In order to prevent iron reaccumulation, subsequent phlebotomies are normally carried out approximately once every three to four months for males, and twice a year for females.\n\nWhere venesection is not possible, long-term administration of desferrioxamine mesylate is useful. Desferrioxamine is an iron-chelating compound, and excretion induced by desferrioxamine is enhanced by administration of Vitamin C. It cannot be used during pregnancy or breast-feeding due to risk of defects in the child.\n\n\n\nStudies indicate that persons with symptomatic haemochromatosis have somewhat reduced life expectancy compared to the general population. This is mainly due to excess mortality from cirrhosis and liver cancer. Patients who were treated with phlebotomy lived longer than those who weren't. Patients without liver disease or diabetes had similar survival rate to the general population.\n\nHaemochromatosis is one of the most common heritable genetic conditions in people of northern European extraction with a prevalence of 1 in 200. The disease has a variable penetration and about 1 in 10 people of this demographic carry a mutation in one of the genes regulating iron metabolism, the most common allele being the C282Y allele in the \"HFE\" gene. The prevalence of mutations in iron metabolism genes varies in different populations. A study of 3,011 unrelated white Australians found that 14% were heterozygous carriers of an HFE mutation, 0.5% were homozygous for an \"HFE\" mutation, and only 0.25% of the study population had clinically relevant iron overload. Most patients who are homozygous for HFE mutations will not manifest clinically relevant haemochromatosis (see Genetics above). Other populations have a lower prevalence of both the genetic mutation and the clinical disease.\n\nGenetic studies suggest the original haemochromatosis mutation arose in a single person, possibly of Celtic ethnicity, who lived 60–70 generations ago. At that time when dietary iron may have been scarcer than today, the presence of the mutant allele may have provided an evolutionary or natural selection reproductive advantage by maintaining higher iron levels in the blood.\n\nThe term \"haemochromatosis\" is used by different sources in many different ways.\n\nIt is often used to imply an association with the HFE gene. For many years, HFE was the only known gene associated with haemochromatosis, and the term \"hereditary haemochromatosis\" was used to describe haemochromatosis type 1. However, it is now known that there are many different genetic associations with this condition. The older the text, or the more general the audience, the more likely that HFE is implied.\n\n\"Haemochromatosis\" has also been used in contexts where there had not been a known genetic cause for iron accumulation. In some cases, however, a condition that was thought to be due to diet or environment was later linked to a genetic polymorphism, as in African iron overload.\n\nThe disease was first described in 1865 by Armand Trousseau in a report on diabetes in patients presenting with a bronze pigmentation of their skin. Trousseau did not associate diabetes with iron accumulation; the recognition that infiltration of the pancreas with iron might disrupt endocrine function resulting in diabetes was made by Friedrich Daniel von Recklinghausen in 1890.\n\n"}
{"id": "21152359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21152359", "title": "India State Hunger Index", "text": "India State Hunger Index\n\nThe India State Hunger Index (ISHI) is a tool to calculate hunger and malnutrition at the regional level in India. It is constructed in the same fashion as the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2008 and was calculated for 17 states in India, covering more than 95 percent of the population. \n\nThe ISHI was developed by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) and presented for the first time 2008 in conjunction with the Non-Governmental Organization Welthungerhilfe and the Department of Economics, University of California.\n\nDespite the good economic performance, with over 200 million people who are food insecure, India is home to the largest number of hungry people in the world. In the ranking of the Global Hunger Index 2017 it covers position 100 out of 119 ranked countries and has an “serious“ (31.4) food security situation. The major problem in the country is the high prevalence of underweight children under five, which is a result of low nutrition and educational status of women. \n\nWhile there has been attention to hunger and undernourishment at the central level, within India's political system, states are important political units with regard to the planning and execution of development programs. Thus unpacking the hunger index at the level of the federal states is an important tool to build awareness of the disparities in hunger among them. In addition, the variability of the relative contribution of the underlying components of the hunger index across the different Indian states can help to stimulate the discussion about the drivers of hunger in different state contexts.\n\nThe ISHI is constructed in the same fashion as the Global Hunger Index which follows a multidimensional approach to measuring hunger and malnutrition. It combines three equally weighted indicators:\n\n\nThe ISHI uses two data sources for the estimation of the Indian state level: These are the first rounds of the National Family Health Survey (2005–2006) for India and the National Sample Survey data from 2004 to 2005. It is calculated and presented for 17 major states, covering 95 percent of the country's population. While the National Family Health Survey has a large enough sample size to yield representative estimates of the child underweight and mortality rates even for the smaller states and union territories in the country, the sample size of the National Sample Survey is insufficient for estimating undernourishment rates in these places. Therefore, the ISHI restricts the sample to those states for which it yields precise states level estimates.\n\n\nIFPRI/University of California/Welthungerhilfe (2008) The India State Hunger Index: Comparisons of Hunger across States.\n\n"}
{"id": "33855837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33855837", "title": "International HL7 Implementations", "text": "International HL7 Implementations\n\nInternational HL7 implementations is a collection of known implementations of the HL7 Interoperability standard. These do not necessarily refer to cross-border health information systems.\n\nHL7 Australia is the local affiliate of the international HL7 organisation and is an open, volunteer-based, not-for-profit organisation that supports the needs of HL7 users in Australia.\n\nIt is the accredited national affiliate of HL7.org and has local responsibility for a range of core activities including the distribution and licensing of HL7 standards materials, education and participation in international HL7 standards development.\n\nHL7 Australia members are active participants in the various Standards Australia IT-014 health informatics standards sub-committees and working groups which are working on HL7 standards development and implementation in Australia.\n\nThe HL7 New Zealand website outlines the following commitments.\n\nThe user group shall be established on the following basic principles:\n\n\nFunctions of HL7 New Zealand\n\n\nPrince Edward Island, a province within Canada is the only instance of a province-wide attempt at implementing the HL7 interoperability standard. It has been standards compliant with the following characteristics of HL7:\n\n\nThe main user of HL7 in Mexico is the Mexican Institute for Social Security (IMSS). IMSS have been developing V3 messaging for three years and currently have 19 active messages across 9 domains with a further 24 messages currently in development. They are using a modified version of Veteran’s VISTA in combination with middleware which transforms from VISTA’s native V2 messages to V3 and vice versa.\nThere is also a joint project in progress to develop an HL7 Gateway with Microsoft. It is envisaged that this project will enable systems to exchange HL7 messages with IMSS without concerning themselves with HL7 translation.\nHL7 Mexico has also been working to make government agencies such as the Ministry of Health aware of the importance of HL7 in exchanging healthcare information.\nAs well as improving external links, HL7 Mexico has also been working to improve its internal processes and encourage new membership across the board.\n\nThe HL7 standards development organisation is based in America and oversees the development of the HL7 standard. HL7 current work programme includes:\n\nChina has so far tested HL7 messaging standards in order to ensure interoperability. In the Guangdong province, government has gone as far as to mandate that developers of health information systems utilize the HL7 standard to transfer patient clinical information.\n\nThe Chinese Hospital Management Association (CHIMA) manages the role of the Basic Data Set Standards project, of which its working groups have accomplished 1976 data items, some of which reference the HL7 standard.\n\nHL7 Hong Kong Limited, a non-profit making organization, is an accredited international affiliate of Health Level Seven International - the global authority on standards for interoperability of health information technology.\n\nHL7 India is an independent, non-profit-distributing, membership based organization that exists to encourage the adoption of standards for healthcare information communication within India.\n\nThe objective of HL7 India is to support the development, promotion and implementation of HL7 standards and specifications in a way which addresses the concerns of healthcare organizations, health professionals and healthcare software suppliers in India.\n\nHL7 India is the accredited International Affiliate of Health Level Seven International (HL7 International) for India. HL7 India shall seek to retain this affiliation or a similar formal status in relation to the wider HL7 community subject to agreement by the membership of HL7 India. The rules and obligations applicable to International Affiliates shall be deemed to apply to HL7 India except where such rules directly conflict with the bylaws of HL7 India or with legal regulations within India.\n\nHL7 Pakistan is a non-profit organization with the vision of making healthcare systems interoperable by adopting health standards such as Health Level Seven (HL7). It is a membership based organization promoting the role of interoperability for better provision of healthcare to the people. The main goals of HL7 Pakistan are: \n\nHL7 Finland was founded in 1995 and was the fifth international affiliate of HL7. The association in financed internally by its members; however it does collaborate on domestic and international projects.\n\nThe HL7 Finland website cites the following principle activities of the association:\n\n\nThere has been a HL7 CDA R2 AND V3 MESSAGING FOR NATIONAL ePRESCRIPTION IN FINLAND initiative.\n\nHL7 Spain currently has approximately 60 members, of whom roughly 70% are companies with the other 30% being made up of foundation, healthcare authority and university members.\nJoan Guanyabens, President of HL7 Spain, reports that a good proportion of the work currently being done by HL7 Spain is centred on education – disseminating the standard, as he puts it. During 2005/6, HL7 Spain offered frequent workshops, seminars and opportunities for V2 training and certification.\n\nHL7 Sweden is the Swedish subsidiary organization representing HL7 in Sweden. HL7 Sweden started in late 2005, and today consists of about twenty members from government, organizations and businesses. HL7 Sweden is a non-profit organization open to all individuals, companies and organizations operating in Sweden.\n\nPurpose of the HL7 Sweden \n\nIn Turkey, the HL7 affiliate operates as an autonomous subgroup of the Turkish Medical Informatics Association (TURKMIA). Affiliate members are admitted once they have passed certain prerequisite studies.\n\nHL7 Turkey has been focusing a good deal of effort in the past year on raising the country’s awareness of HL7, with the result that HL7 is (unofficially) the standard for Turkish healthcare informatics projects.\nHL7 Turkey has worked closely with the Turkish Ministry of Health IT Department in order to insure that the following areas would benefit from the HL7 standard:\n\nHL7 UK is the UK affiliate organisation to HL7, and was set up in January 2000. \nThe mission of HL7 UK is entirely complementary with that of the parent HL7 organisation: \nHL7 UK sets out to:\nHL7 UK seeks to identify HL7 standards that are applicable to UK healthcare without change and those that require adaptations or national implementation guidelines to meet UK requirements. Where UK adaptations, profiles or guidelines are required, HL7 UK proposes solutions that meet the need for consistent national implementation, while avoiding unnecessary divergence from HL7 standards. To this end, HL7 UK feeds back national requirements and proposed solutions to its parent body.\n\nHL7 version 2 is used by almost all Swiss hospitals. Their HL7 v3 CDA implementation guide covers all documents needed to support the \"hip replacement\" clinical pathway. \nParametrix, the biggest medical information system vendor in Switzerland has been using a RIM based architecture.\n\nHL7 Argentina formed in 2000 with just five original members. Economic instability in the country meant that any expansion of the affiliate was virtually impossible until 2004, but they now have more than twenty members,consisting of an 80/20 membership split in terms of organization/private subscriptions.\nIn terms of membership headcount, HL7 Argentina may be comparatively small but they are certainly very active. Diego Kaminker, recently elected chair of the affiliate, kindly shared with me some of the recent and ongoing HL7 developments with which his country has been involved.\nCurrently, the largest HL7 implementation in Argentina can be found at the Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires (HIBA).\n"}
{"id": "50781780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50781780", "title": "It's Your Life (radio program)", "text": "It's Your Life (radio program)\n\nIt's Your Life was a documentary radio series created by the Chicago Industrial Health Organization. It aired only one year, 1949, with producer Ben Park leaving to produce a planned health-related television program for the Department of Public Health. The series tuned in on the daily problems of men and women in Chicago, IL, with shows focusing on depression, disability, juvenile delinquency, and the difficulties met by veterans, among other topics. It was one of the first radio programs to use magnetic tape, a then new recording medium that allowed for greater portability, higher fidelity, and an easier means of editing. With the new opportunities afforded by magnetic tape, It's Your Life was able to create a program that mixed in-studio narration with recordings and interviews made in the field, allowing the opportunity for real people to speak about their problems in an unscripted, if edited, manner, a rarity at the time. \nIt's Your Life is best known today for featuring the future Mr. Wizard, Don Herbert, as its field reporter.\n"}
{"id": "37021899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37021899", "title": "Jeffrey Bishop", "text": "Jeffrey Bishop\n\nJeffrey Paul Bishop (born 1967) is a philosopher, bioethicist, author and the \"Tenet Endowed Chair of Health Care Ethics\" at Saint Louis University. The director of the Albert Gnaegi Center for Health Care Ethics, he is most widely recognized and cited for work in medical ethics as relating to death and dying in addition to contributions in the field of medical humanities. Bishop is a physician, holds a Doctorate of Philosophy from the University of Dallas and serves on the editorial boards of both the \"Journal of Medicine and Philosophy\" and the \"Journal of Christian Bioethics\" for Oxford University Press.\n\nBishop grew up in Texas and graduated as a Medical Doctor from the University of Texas Medical School Houston and a Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Dallas, before joining the faculty of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in 1996. He was the principal lecturer on \"Medical Ethics and Law\" at the Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry of the University of Exeter and University of Plymouth in the United Kingdom and later directed the \"Clinical Ethics Education and Consultation Services\" at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. Bishop also held the position of \"Associate Professor of Theological Ethics\" and an active hospitalist at Vanderbilt University before assuming the directorship of the Albert Gnaegi Center for Health Care Ethics in July 2010.\n\nBishop contributes regularly to numerous journals as well as the Australian Broadcasting Corporation \"Religion and Ethics\" page. He has edited several special edition journals for \"Christian Bioethics\" and the \"Journal of Medicine and Philosophy\" for which he sits on the editorial board and is the assistant editor of the \"Philosophy and Medicine\" series, Springer Publishing and on the editorial advisory board of \"Medicine Studies\". Bishop is a member of the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities and the American Academy of Religion.\n\nHe is also an infamous movie critic\n\nBishop's scholarly work explores the historical, social, political, and philosophical conditions that underpin contemporary medical and scientific practices and theories.\n\nBishop's first book is \"The Anticipatory Corpse:Medicine, Power, and the Care of the Dying\" which explores the historical, political, and philosophical underpinnings of our care of the dying and, finally, the possibilities of change. It is published by Notre Dame Press.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13479871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13479871", "title": "Kaplan Medical Center", "text": "Kaplan Medical Center\n\nKaplan Medical Center (, \"Merkaz Refu'i Kaplan\") is a hospital in Rehovot, Israel, located in the south of the city next to Bilu Junction. \nKaplan Medical Center is a teaching hospital affiliated to the Hadassah and Hebrew University of Jerusalem Medical School. It also has a small branch in Gedera, the Herzfeld Medical Center, which mainly serves as a geriatric hospital and nursing home.\nIn 2001, the hospital had 625 beds and in May 2007 was the tenth largest hospital in Israel. It serves the entire northern Shephelah region, between Rehovot and Ashdod (including Gedera and Yavne) and serves Ashdod along with Barzilai Hospital in Ashkelon. It was founded in 1953 and was named after Eliezer Kaplan, a well-known Zionist and the first Finance Minister of Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "16258229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16258229", "title": "Kazem Sami", "text": "Kazem Sami\n\nKazem Sami Kermani (1935 – 23 November 1988) was Iran's minister of health in the transitional government of Mehdi Bazargan and leader of the Iranian Nation Liberation Movement (\"JAMA\").\n\nKazem Sami was one of the leaders and organizers of the Iranian revolution. He served as the minister of health in the Iran's interim government, making him Iran's first minister of health after the Iranian Revolution of 1979. He ran in the first Iranian presidential elections, but lost to Abolhassan Banisadr, coming sixth out of the seven presidential candidates. He served as a deputy in the first post-revolutionary Iranian Parliament. After distancing himself from the revolutionary government, Dr Sami remained one of the few active opposition leaders in Iran, openly criticizing the Islamic Republic government. He also wrote a famous open letter to Ayatollah Khomeini, criticizing him for the continuation of the Iran-Iraq war after Iran had recovered her occupied territories, notably the liberation of Khorramshahr.\n\nDr. Sami was murdered in his private medical clinic in 1988, under suspicious circumstances. He is believed to be one of the first victims of the \"Chain murders\", a series of murders and disappearances of Iranian dissident intellectuals in the 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "58571747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58571747", "title": "Keuky Lim", "text": "Keuky Lim\n\nKeuky Lim (born March 7, 1937) is a Cambodian former politician and physician who served as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Khmer Republic from 1973 to 1975. Presently, he is the President of the Cambodian Diabetes Association which is dedicated to diagnosis, treatment, and self-management for Cambodians living with diabetes.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "12277634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12277634", "title": "Lead time bias", "text": "Lead time bias\n\nLead time is the length of time between the detection of a disease (usually based on new, experimental criteria) and its usual clinical presentation and diagnosis (based on traditional criteria). It is the time between early diagnosis with screening and the time in which diagnosis would have been made without screening. It is an important factor when evaluating the effectiveness of a specific test.\n\nBy screening, the intention is to diagnose a disease earlier than it would be without screening. Without screening, the disease may be discovered later, when symptoms appear.\n\nEarly diagnosis by screening may not prolong the life of someone but just determine the propensity of the person to a disease or medical condition such as by DNA testing. No additional life span has been gained and the patient may even be subject to added anxiety as the patient must live for longer with knowledge of the disease. For example, the genetic disorder Huntington's disease is diagnosed when symptoms appear at around 50, and the person dies at around 65. The typical patient, therefore, lives about 15 years after diagnosis. A genetic test at birth makes it possible to diagnose this disorder earlier. If this newborn baby dies at around 65, the person will have \"survived\" 65 years after diagnosis, without having actually lived any longer than those diagnosed without DNA detection.\n\nRaw statistics can make screening appear to increase survival time (called lead time). If the person dies at a time in life that previously has been the usual course of the disease than when detected by early screening, the person's life has not been prolonged.\n\nDetection by advanced screening does not always mean prolong survival.\n\nLead time bias can affect interpretation of the five-year survival rate.\n"}
{"id": "28226270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28226270", "title": "Leonard Berkowitz", "text": "Leonard Berkowitz\n\nLeonard Berkowitz (August 11, 1926 – January 3, 2016) was an American social psychologist best known for his research on altruism and human aggression. He originated the Cognitive Neoassociation Model of aggressive behavior, which was created to help explain instances of aggression for which the Frustration-Aggression Hypothesis could not account.\n\nBerkowitz received his Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Michigan in 1951. He served on the faculty at the University of Wisconsin–Madison from 1955 to 1989. During that period, he also held visiting appointments at Cambridge, Cornell, Oxford, and Stanford Universities. At the time of death, he was a Vilas Research Professor Emeritus in the Department of Psychology at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. During his lifetime, including as recently as two months prior to his death, he authored of over 170 articles, books, and textbooks on psychology. A \"Review of General Psychology\" survey, published in 2002, ranked Berkowitz as the 76th most cited psychologist of the 20th century.\n\nOn January 3, 2016, Berkowitz died at Oakwood Village in Madison, Wisconsin after a brief undisclosed illness at the age of 89.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2810500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2810500", "title": "Liquid Candy", "text": "Liquid Candy\n\nLiquid Candy: How Soft Drinks are Harming Americans' Health is a report published by the Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) which examines the increasing levels of soft drink consumption in the United States, particularly by children and teenagers, and the health problems this poses. Originally published in 1998, a second edition containing updated data was released in 2005.\n\nAs well as discussing a selection of the health disorders connected with soft drinks, such as tooth decay, obesity, diabetes, osteoporosis and kidney stones, the report also looks at the reduced nutritional intake resulting from soft drinks displacing other more nutritious food and drink. While its main focus is on sweeteners such as sugar and high-fructose corn syrup, brief attention is given to other common soft drink additives such as caffeine, artificial colorings, and artificial sweeteners.\n\n\"Liquid Candy\" also explores the marketing and labeling of soft drinks, and ends with a number of recommendations for action, including: calling for the declaration of soft drink caloric content on restaurant menus; aggressive placement of water fountains, especially in schools; stopping the sale and advertising of soft drinks in schools; requiring medical professionals to routinely ask their patients about their soft drink consumption level; and levying taxes on soft drink sales to pay for mass-media campaigns to improve diet and promote physical activity.\n\nIn connection with the 2005 republication of the report, the CSPI filed a petition with the Food and Drug Administration, and also organized for a letter, signed by over 40 scientists, health professionals and organizations, to be sent to the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3338616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3338616", "title": "List of political parties in South America by country", "text": "List of political parties in South America by country\n\n"}
{"id": "18675046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18675046", "title": "Malnutrition–inflammation complex", "text": "Malnutrition–inflammation complex\n\nMalnutrition–inflammation complex (syndrome), abbreviated as \"MICS\" and also known as \"malnutrition–inflammation–cachexia syndrome\", is a common condition in chronic disease states such as chronic kidney disease (where it is also known as uremic malnutrition or protein–energy malnutrition) and chronic heart failure.\n\nThe MICS is believed to be a cause of survival paradoxes seen in these distinct patient populations, also known as reverse epidemiology populations.\n"}
{"id": "47078429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47078429", "title": "MedCity (London)", "text": "MedCity (London)\n\nMedCity (London) describes the collaboration between the Mayor of London and the capital's health science centres of three premier academic institutions Imperial College London, King's College London and University College London comprising the London part of the 'golden triangle'. MedCity was launched in 2014 to increase collaboration between Imperial College, King’s College and University College London — the capital’s three main science universities — and promote the broader 'golden triangle' between London, Cambridge and Oxford to investors. This collaboration is supported by HEFCE and London & Partners and works with the life sciences sector across the greater south-east of England.\n\nMedCity is funded by King's Health Partners, Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre, UCL Partners and the Mayor of London.\nMedCity is positioned in the centre of academic research, industry, investors and the London authority to facilitate and enable various services with a focus on providing a front door service, promote the region, develop an entrepreneurial environment and explain the market.\n\nMedCity acts as a ‘front door’ for businesses, entrepreneurs, investors and academics to come to when they are confused by the complex environment across the region. MedCity welcomes, directs and supports large pharmaceutical companies to digital entrepreneurs, businesses seeking research collaborations and investors looking for investment and considering setting up new funds. Tightly involved with its partners, MedCity provides signposting and relationship formation within and across the region. MedCity also provides help in finding lab, office, shared or co-located work spaces or for specialist laboratories and equipment as the greater south east offers a wide variety of options.\n\nPromoting the region as a base for life science investment and growth, MedCity is London's life science representative at business, academic and charity conferences and aims at developing a wide stakeholder base for communications to attract international, trade and media interest.\n\nMedCity is actively encouraging and enabling entrepreneurialism by understanding and addressing entrepreneurial barriers as well as supporting entrepreneurial activities. These include business plan competitions, angel investment workshops, pitching events for early stage funding of startups and work with various capital groups to attract funding into the greater south east.\n\nMedCity enables academic/business interaction at the early stages of idea development by bringing stakeholders together to develop collaborations. Furthermore, an active field is in promoting and explaining the wide and professional clinical trial environment that London and the greater south east offers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18495753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18495753", "title": "National Commission for Health Education Credentialing", "text": "National Commission for Health Education Credentialing\n\nThe National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, Inc. (NCHEC, ) is a professional health education credentialing body that works to define, verify, certify and promote the role of health educators as a national standard primarily operating in the United States of America. The commission's office is located in Whitehall, PA, just North of Allentown, Pennsylvania and about 50 miles North of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nNCHEC is the national accrediting organization for health educators, promoting the certified health education specialist (CHES) credential and administers the affirmation of approved continuing education. The provision and administration of the CHES credential represents the major strategy of NCHEC to fulfill its mission to \"improve the practice of health education and to serve the public and profession of health education by certifying health education specialists, promoting professional development, and strengthening professional preparation and practice.\"\n\nAlthough independent, NCHEC often works with national organizations to promote the CHES credential. NCHEC routinely interacts with the American Public Health Association (APHA), the Society for Public Health Education (SOPHE), the American Association for Health Education (AAHE), the Coalition of National Health Education Organizations (CNHEO), Universities and Colleges, various US Government agencies, and especially health educators in a wide variety of occupational and professional endeavors.\n\nCredentialing health educators is an attestation of not only the professional's knowledge, but also their ability to act prudently and skillfully in a number of health education roles, including public health practice, research, advocacy, promotion, education. It also helps to promote further professional development of the health educator with continuing education and a sense of pride, and offers interaction with other health educators in a number of societies, agencies, and other professional settings. Credentialing health educators has also helped employers to recognize health educators who meet a baseline standard of professional competency.\n\n\nAny given CHES is credentialed for a 5 year period, in which time the CHES is required to earn 75 credit hours, or \"Continuing Education Contact Hours\" (CECH). NCHEC has suggested that the CHES accumulate 15 CECHs every year and have all requirements met about 3 months prior to the CHES recertification date.\n\nNCHEC has the defined the awarding of continuing education in two categories:\n\n\nNCHEC does not charge money for CECHs, but acknowledges providers may need to do so to recoup administrative costs.\n\nNCHEC provides continuous development and oversight of the nationally-standardized CHES examination offered biannually across at testing centers across the US (April and October cycles). \n\n\nAcademic health education programs have been encouraged to comply with a competency based curriculum guided by the National Commission on Health Education Credentialing (NCHEC) Areas of Responsibility and Competency for Entry-Level Health Educators. NCHEC promotes seven general areas of responsibility with several supporting points of competency (not shown):\n\n\nNCHEC promotes a code of ethics for health educators. The history and rationale for this code and other affiliating organizations can be found at here at the Coalition of National Health Education Organizations (CNHEO): . The code is constituted of a preamble and 6 articles.\nPreamble\n\nThe health education profession is dedicated to excellence in the practice of promoting individual, family, organizational and community health. The Code of Ethics provides a basis of shared values that health education is practiced. The responsibility of all health educators is to aspire to the highest possible standards of conduct and to encourage the ethical behavior of all those with whom they work.\n\nNCHEC has been cited in a number of health education research efforts either peripherally in the context of health education or credentialing, or directly as a significant actor in the public health professions. One study evaluated student adherence to NCHEC areas of responsibility through a service learning or experience-based tracking paradigm.\n\nNCHEC spearheaded the National Health Educator Competencies Update Project (CUP) in 1998 and continued until 2004. The 6-year study used a 19-page questionnaire sent to individuals identified from a number of professional health educator organizations across the US. By the end of the multiphase study, the CUP analysts realized that it represented one of the largest national data sets ever assembled of health educators (N=4,030), and found common sets of competencies valued across the majority of health educators.\n"}
{"id": "4536418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4536418", "title": "National Emergency Medical Services Association", "text": "National Emergency Medical Services Association\n\nThe National Emergency Medical Services Association (NEMSA or National EMS Association) is a now defunct, registered labor union and California non-profit mutual benefit corporation. NEMSA's membership consists of emergency medical technicians (EMTs), and paramedics.\n\nThe National Emergency Medical Services Association (NEMSA) was founded in 2004 when dissatisfaction with union representation led to the creation of an all-EMS union. NEMSA's founding has always been a source of controversy, as founder Torren Colcord was found guilty in Alameda County (CA) Superior Court of fraud, using Service Employee International resources and company time to create and form NEMSA. \"It's a substantial judgment for substantial wrongdoing,\" said Dan Martin, administrative vice president for SEIU-United Healthcare Workers West. \"They were on payroll, supposed to be looking out for members, and they did just the opposite. It's an example of what happens when people put their own personal ambitions above the interests of the union.\"\n\nSEIU was awarded a $442,000 judgement against Colcord, and later Colcord retained the guilty verdict but had the award reduced $300,000 on appeal. NEMSA members later paid for that judgement, plus attorney fees for the appeals case.\n\nNEMSA supporters claimed that rather than a large union that paid no attention to EMS; they wanted a union that was for EMS, by EMS. NEMSA reported that represented 5672 members as a maximum number of members represented according to Federal LM-2 reports. The Sacramento Business Journal reported that NEMSA represented 5500 members at one point.\n\nNEMSA promotes itself as \"a registered labor union and not-for-profit mutual benefit corporation that specializes in the labor representation of pre-hospital EMS Professionals such as EMTs, Paramedics, Dispatchers, Call Takers, Critical Care Nurses, Air Ambulance Flight Nurses and Paramedics, as well as EMS related support staff.\" NEMSA represents members in 6 states.\n\nBeginning in 2007, under the leadership of President Torren Colcord, NEMSA began to see dramatic changes in membership. In 2007, after difficult contract negotiations in Portland, Oregon, NEMSA disclaimed the Portland, Oregon bargaining unit, walking away from representing approximately 500 EMS workers there instead of having their recently negotiated contract rejected.\n\nNEMSA under the leadership of Colcord lost another 1000-1500 East Coast members when those members opted to leave NEMSA in favor of the Teamsters and United EMS Workers-AFSCME Local 4911 in 2009 and 2012\n\nIn 2011, NEMSA under the leadership of Colcord lost 140 members in Solano County CA in favor of United EMS Workers-AFSCME Local 4911\n\nIn 2012, NEMSA under the leadership of Colcord lost 260 members in Santa Clara County CA in favor of United EMS Workers-AFSCME Local 4911\n\nNEMSA under the leadership of Colcord lost another 2000 members in Northern California in 2012 when those members opted to leave NEMSA in favor of United EMS Workers-AFSCME Local 4911 after a coast to coast victory.\n\nNEMSA under the leadership of Colcord lost another 140 members in Northern California at First Responder EMS Inc of Sacramento in favor of United EMS Workers-AFSCME Local 4911.\n\nNEMSA under the leadership of Colcord lost another 75 members in Northern California at American Medical Response in favor of IAFF.\n\nNEMSA under the leadership of Colcord lost another 350 members in New Haven CT at American Medical Response in favor of IAEP.\n\nNEMSA lost another 500 members to NAGE in San Diego CA at Rural Metro.\n\nNEMSA lost another 30 members from Morrow County EMS to IAEP in Mt. Gilead, Ohio.\n\nIn 2010, a dispute over Torren Colcord's leadership of NEMSA led to a long running dispute over who controlled NEMSA. In the 2010 a union officer election was held. NEMSA refused to recognize the validity of one candidate and did not allow the candidate to run for office. That candidate, Jimmy Gambone then ran a national write in ballot campaign. According to the Department of Labor, Gambone was eligible to run for office and should have been placed on the ballot. Gambone was the winner of the election by a large majority of write in votes, Larry Lucus had the second highest and Torren Colcord had the least. According to the Department of Labor, NEMSA violated federal law in refusing to seat the winning candidate. NEMSA instead seated another candidate for President, who promptly resigned. Torren Colcord, NEMSA's outgoing President, still refusing to relinquish any power, was named Executive Director and remained in control of NEMSA. New bylaws were secretly drafted after the election to allow for the Executive Director Position to be created. The DOL investigation and resolution to the complaint took nearly two years.\n\nDuring the time period the complaint was investigated by the Department of Labor, Gambone and his supporters, with the arbitrators ruling in hand, made access to the NEMSA offices and left the NEMSA offices with computers, files, and information. Gambone and his supporters then seized power, naming themselves the NEMSA Board of Directors and unilaterally unseating the existing NEMSA Board of Directors. Gambone and his agents then began conducting business as NEMSA while the NEMSA Board of Directors Gambone had unseated also continued conducting business as NEMSA. According to NEMSA, Gambone supporters attempted to intercept dues checks, write checks on NEMSA's bank accounts, and do business as NEMSA during this time\n\nGambone and his supporters went on to form a rival union to NEMSA called United EMS Workers or UEMSW. Gambone and key supporters formed the leadership of this union, which affiliated with the American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees. NEMSA has lost approximately 50% of its total membership to AFSCME/UEMSW.\n\nFederal LM-2 financial reports required for labor Unions show NEMSA's financial condition as of the end of the 2012 fiscal year for NEMSA. The 2012 report shows NEMSA claimed $12.372.00 in cash on hand and assets totaling $91,338.00 for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. However, NEMSA also reports total liabilities of $695,236.00 including $231,997.00 unpaid in accounts payable. This leaves NEMSA with total net assets of negative $-603,898.00.\n\nNEMSA hired the law firm of Goyette and Associates. In legal documents filed in Sacramento Superior Court, Paul Goyette alleges he was hired as corporate counsel to NEMSA in May 2010 at hourly rates from $225 to $250 an hour. The arrangement changed in April 2011 to a fixed monthly fee of $45,000 for legal and labor representation, plus an hourly fee of $250 for political and criminal defense work. The deal included acknowledgment that $146, 872 was due from the first agreement, but the law firm agreed not to take action to collect the money unless NEMSA altered or terminated the new agreement before March 2014. If that happened, court documents allege, the money was immediately due — plus $600,000 in liquidated damages. The money wasn’t paid and the relationship was severed by NEMSA in May 2012. In court documents filed in July, Goyette seeks to collect the more than $825,000 he says is owed.\n\nNEMSA affiliated with NAGE (National Association of Government Employees) in 2012. The affiliation did not protect NEMSA from losing the Northern California Bargaining Unit. NAGE has since severed the affiliation and filed suit against NEMSA for breach of several contracts, claiming NEMSA did not pay NAGE more than $281,000 owed to NAGE as part of those contracts. The suit also alleges that Torren Colcord breached an employment contract with NAGE. In the suit, NAGE alleges \"Shortly after NEMSA’s affiliation with NAGE commenced, NAGE discovered that NEMSA’s financial health was not what it was represented to be during the course of NEMSA’s negotiations with NAGE, and, consequently, NEMSA did not have the financial wherewithal to meet its dues obligations to NAGE. In an effort to salvage the relationship, NAGE initially agreed to rebate to NEMSA some of the dues owed to NAGE under the Affiliation Agreement to NEMSA. In all, NAGE rebated approximately $56,000 to NEMSA. NAGE also paid NEMSA an additional $15,000 in rent pursuant to the Servicing Agreement. NAGE also performed all of the obligations and services called for under the Affiliation and Servicing Agreements prior to the termination of those agreements. Nonetheless, despite financial assistance from NAGE, and despite that NAGE has met its obligations to NEMSA under the Affiliation and Servicing Agreements, NEMSA failed to meet its financial obligations to NAGE. Of the approximately $456,000 total owed by NEMSA to NAGE pursuant to the Affiliation and Servicing Agreements, NEMSA paid NAGE \nonly approximately $175,000 and currently owes NAGE approximately $281,000.\n\nNEMSA claims it does not advocate or recommend specific political candidates or parties, nor does it participate in politics.\n\nEMS workers in Portland, Oregon are critical of NEMSA because NEMSA disclaimed their bargaining unit when NEMSA could not negotiate an acceptable contract for their workforce. NEMSA walked away from approximately 500 members, leaving them unrepresented. \"Everybody was upset,\" Charlie Savoie said. \"A faction figured maybe we'd been had, and began collecting petitions to file for new representation by the Teamsters.\"\n\nFormer NEMSA member Edward Gavin, Jr. filed a lawsuit against NEMSA in 2011 claiming NEMSA had breached its duty of fair representation owed to Gavin under law. Gavin alleges \"On July 8, 2011 Mr. Gavin found out that at the Step Two grievance hearing he had briefly attended, NEMSA had withdrawn his grievance rather than allowing a decision to be made. The withdrawal of the grievance at the Step Two stage of the grievance process prevented the grievance from being taken to Step Three of the process, arbitration. As a result of the grievance being withdrawn by NEMSA, Mr. Gavin lost the opportunity to have the NEMSA stewards decide whether to take the grievance to arbitration, he lost the opportunity to appeal any decision by NEMSA not to take the grievance over his termination taken to arbitration, he lost the opportunity to have his grievance taken to arbitration, and he lost the opportunity to contest the termination of his employment. The NEMSA representatives had lied to Mr. Galvin after the Step Two hearing, when they led him to believe that the grievance hearing had been litigated to conclusion and awaited a decision. Mr. Gavin had never agreed to the withdrawal of the grievance.\n\nEMS workers in Northern California and New England are critical of NEMSA because of a two year union leadership dispute. Leaders of this anti-NEMSA movement called themselves \"the Transition Team\" and are quoted on an anti-NEMSA website as saying \"NEMSA - NEMSA is corrupt & undemocratic.. It is run more like a despotic personal business\" and issued a 35-page preliminary report of the problems they found with NEMSA and NEMSA's Executive Director Torren Colcord. Later this Transition Team would abandon NEMSA and create a new union, as a local affiliate of AFSCME called United EMS Workers Local 4911\n\nFormer NEMSA employees have also been critical of NEMSA. Former NEMSA Employee Jim Misercola wrote a letter describing why he no longer works for NEMSA in which he states \"My resignation is due to the extreme philosophical and ideological differences with NEMSA. NEMSA is no longer the organization that I once tirelessly promoted. Furthermore it is my opinion that NEMSA is badly mismanaged by its current President Torren Colcord\". Former Co-Founder Tim Bonifay also stated in a letter \"I helped create NEMSA because I believed in what the organization could achieve. But the NEMSA out campaigning today is not the one that I co-founded, and I would be ashamed to be a part of that organization today.\"\n\nNEMSA members, as reported by EMS Insider have been critical of NEMSA due to NEMSA not providing Board of Directors meeting minutes and/or financial information about NEMSA upon request, in addition to getting poor representation. Many cases that should have made it to arbitration never did.\n"}
{"id": "4854701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4854701", "title": "Nesjøen", "text": "Nesjøen\n\nNesjøen (sometimes just \"Nesjø\") is an artificial lake (reservoir) in the municipality of Tydal in Trøndelag county, Norway. The lake is part of the Nea-Nidelv watershed which lies on the western part of the Sylan mountain range. The lake lies about southeast of the municipal center of Ås and north of the village of Stugudalen. The lake is good for trout fishing.\n\nTrondheim Energiverk was given the contract for hydroelectric power generation in 1968 and they built and completed a dam in 1971. The dam was built on the Nea River and would flood the bogs to the east and north and would create a lake that would eventually merge with the nearby lake Esandsjøen. The results of the new, combined lake would be a reservoir holding about of water. The lake Nesjøen has a total watershed feeding it of about .\n\nEsandsjøen (or \"Essansjøen\"; ) is a former lake in the municipality of Tydal that is now part of Nesjøen. Esandsjøen became regulated for hydroelectric power production by Trondheim Energiverk with the construction of a dam at Esna that was built from 1941 until 1947. The lake had an area of about . In 1971, another nearby dam was built and that lake gradually enlarged until it essentially merged with the Esandsjøen. Today the name Essandsjøen is used to refer to the northern part of the lake Nesjøen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2979904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2979904", "title": "O2 Optix", "text": "O2 Optix\n\nAir Optix is a brand of breathable contact lenses made by Ciba Vision. They are soft contact lenses made from a silicone hydrogel material consisting of approximately 67% lotrafilcon B (except in Japan), 33% water, and have a patented surface treatment to resist deposits for more comfortable lens wear. O2 Optix lenses are for daily wear and extended wear for up to six continuous nights.\n\n"}
{"id": "1172296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172296", "title": "Periodontium", "text": "Periodontium\n\nThe periodontium is the specialized tissues that both surround and support the teeth, maintaining them in the maxillary and mandibular bones. The word comes from the Greek terms περί \"peri\"-, meaning \"around\" and -\"odont\", meaning \"tooth\". Literally taken, it means that which is \"around the tooth\". Periodontics is the dental specialty that relates specifically to the care and maintenance of these tissues. It provides the support necessary to maintain teeth in function. It consists of four principal components, namely:\n\nEach of these components is distinct in location, architecture, and biochemical properties, which adapt during the life of the structure. For example, as teeth respond to forces or migrate medially, bone resorbs on the pressure side and is added on the tension side. Cementum similarly adapts to wear on the occlusal surfaces of the teeth by apical deposition. The periodontal ligament in itself is an area of high turnover that allows the tooth not only to be suspended in the alveolar bone but also to respond to the forces. Thus, although seemingly static and having functions of their own, all of these components function as a single unit.\nThe Wnt signaling antagonist Sfrp3/Frzb has been recently discovered as an early developmental marker of the periodontium.\n\nThe periodontium exists for the purpose of supporting teeth during their function and it depends on the stimulation it receives from the function for preservation of its structure. Therefore, a constant state of balance always exists between the periodontal structures and the external forces.\n\nAlveolar bone undergoes constant physiologic remodeling in response to external forces, particularly occlusal forces. Bone is removed from areas where it is no longer needed and added to areas where it is needed. The socket wall reflects the responsiveness to the external forces. Osteoblasts and newly formed osteoid line the areas of tension, whereas lines of compression are lined by osteoclasts. The forces also influence the number, density, and alignment of trabeculae inside the bone. The bony trabeculae are aligned in the path of tensile and compressive stresses to provide maximum resistance to occlusal forces with a minimum of bone substance. When forces are increased, the bony trabeculae also increase in number and thickness and bone is added to the external surfaces.\n\nThe periodontal ligament depends on stimulation provided by function to preserve its structure. Within physiologic limits the PDL can accommodate increased function by increasing its width. Forces that exceed the adaptive capacity of the periodontium produce injury called \"trauma from occlusion\". When occlusal forces are reduced the PDL atrophies, appearing thinned. This phenomenon is called \"disuse atrophy\".\n"}
{"id": "18861899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18861899", "title": "Permanent Representative of Pakistan to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of Pakistan to the United Nations\n\nPakistan Ambassador to the United Nations or officially the Permanent Representative of Pakistan to the United Nations () is the diplomatic position representing Pakistan on all platforms of the United Nations (UN) in New York City. Apart from the Pakistan Mission to the UN in New York, there is another Pakistan Mission based at the UNO office in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nThe mission is usually headed by a career foreign service officer, but has historically been led by an eminent personalities from business, media, law and other areas and are usually political appointees. The current holder of the position is Dr. Maleeha Lodhi, prominent previous holders include Masood Khan and Muhammad Zafarullah Khan.\n\n"}
{"id": "8954110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8954110", "title": "Peter Calabresi", "text": "Peter Calabresi\n\nPeter Calabresi is an American neurology researcher, director of the Johns Hopkins Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Center and an Associate Professor of Neurology.\n\nCalabresi was awarded a five-year MS center grant from the National MS Society for the study of mechanisms of neurodegeneration and strategies for neuroprotection in MS.\n\nHis education includes a B.S. from Yale College in 1984 and an M.D. from Brown University in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "2056625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2056625", "title": "Porcine zona pellucida", "text": "Porcine zona pellucida\n\nPorcine zona pellucida is a form of zona pellucida extracted from the ovaries of pigs, often referred to by the initials PZP. It is a popular source of antigens for immunocontraception.\n\nThe zona pellucida is a thick membrane that surrounds the unfertilised eggs of mammals. In order for an egg to be fertilised, sperm must first bind to, and then penetrate the zona pellucida. When porcine (pig) zona pellucida is injected into other mammals, antibodies are produced which attach to that animal's zona pellucida, preventing the sperm from attaching to the egg, therefore preventing fertilisation.\n\nPorcine zona pellucida has been used in wildlife contraception since the late 1980s. Animals with which PZP has been employed in this context include elephants, wild and/or feral horses, elk and whitetailed deer.\n"}
{"id": "7567209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7567209", "title": "Revolution Health Group", "text": "Revolution Health Group\n\nRevolution Health Group was a United States-based corporation founded in July 2005 by Steve Case, who previously co-founded America Online. Revolution Health’s stated mission is to change healthcare by giving people the tools, information and support to manage their health and wellness actively.\n\nRevolution Health Group was one of three companies in the Revolution LLC group of companies. Revolution Health is a health-related portal site and social network that some have described as akin to WebMD. The company portal launched on January 20, 2007, using Ruby on Rails technology.\n\nOn October 25, 2007, the company dismissed 60 employees, or a quarter of its work-force, ostensibly as part of a restructuring.\n\nOn May 23, 2008, RHG terminated its employer business unit and business-to-business unit as well as laying off an additional 50 people.\n\nOn October 3, 2008, Revolution Health announced that it would merge with Waterfront Media, which operates the Everyday Health Network, in a deal valued at $300 million. The combined company was projected to have more than 20 million unique users*, according to a comScore research custom report.\n\n"}
{"id": "11604682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11604682", "title": "Saint Camillus Foundation", "text": "Saint Camillus Foundation\n\nThe Saint Camillus Foundation of Thailand is a charitable organization in Thailand, set up and run by the Camillian monastic order.\n\nIn 1995, the foundation, with the participation of an Italian priest Father Giovanni Contarin, established a Camillian Social Centre in the Rayong Province. The center was built to provide shelter and care to homeless, indigent, and rejected people living with HIV/AIDS. Special emphasis was placed on women and children, as they were most vulnerable.\n\nSaint Camillus Foundation also operates Camillian Social Center Sampran, caring for elders; Camillian Social Center Prachinburi, caring for lepers; Camillian Social Center Chantaburi, caring for elders; Camillian Social Center Chiangrai, caring for tribal children; and two hospitals, including Camillian Hospital in Bangkok and San Camillo Hospital in Ban Pong, Ratchaburi Province.\n\n"}
{"id": "28272935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28272935", "title": "Smoking in Canada", "text": "Smoking in Canada\n\nSmoking in Canada is banned in indoor public spaces and workplaces (including restaurants, bars, and casinos), by all territories and provinces, and by the federal government. As of 2010, legislation banning smoking within each of these jurisdictions is mostly consistent, despite the separate development of legislation by each jurisdiction. Notable variations between the jurisdictions include: whether, and in what circumstances ventilated smoking rooms are permitted; whether, and up to what distance away from a building is smoking banned outside of a building; and, whether smoking is banned in private vehicles occupied by children.\n\nSome municipalities have bylaws restricting smoking further than the applicable national/provincial/territorial legislation.\n\nThe federal government's smoking ban in workplaces and on common carriers applies only to the federal government and to federally regulated businesses, such as airports. Smoking rooms are not permitted.\nAs of 2015, 13% of Canadians smoke. \n\nAlberta banned smoking in public spaces and workplaces, including within 5 metres of doors, windows, and intakes, on 1 January 2008. A tobacco display ban (or \"powerwall\") law requiring shop owners to keep tobacco sales out of sight was implemented 1 July 2008. As of 1 January 2009, cigarette sales in Alberta have been banned in all stores containing a pharmacy as well as post-secondary institutions. It is an offence for a minor to possess or consume tobacco products with fines starting at $100. It is also illegal to sell to minors. Retailers who sell tobacco products to minors are subject to a fine of $3,000 for the individual sales person (plus an additional fine of $50,000 for the business). As of 2015, 15.8% of Alberta residents smoke. As of November 14, 2014 it has been illegal to smoke in a vehicle with children under the age of 16.\n\nBritish Columbia banned smoking in all public spaces and workplaces including, as of March 2008, within a 6-metre radius of doors, open windows and air intakes. Additionally, all commercial displays of tobacco visible to people under the age of 19 was banned in public areas under the same legislation. As of March 2008, ventilated smoking rooms are only permitted in nursing homes and care facilities. Smoking in a motor vehicle when a passenger is 16 years or under, regardless of the use of windows or sunroofs to vent smoke, is prohibited by section 231.1 of the Motor Vehicle Act. The smoking ban does not apply to hotel rooms, though many have private bans on the practice. As of 2015, 10.2% of British Columbia residents smoke, the lowest of any province. \n\nManitoba banned smoking in all workplaces and enclosed public spaces on October 1, 2004. Specially ventilated rooms are not allowed in bars and restaurants. A law banning retail displays of tobacco and heavily restricting promotion and advertising of tobacco and tobacco-related products came into effect on 15 October 2005. An act banning smoking in vehicles when children under 16 are present became law July 15, 2010 and applies to all lighted tobacco products.\nAs of 2015, 14.8% of Manitoba residents smoke.\n\nNew Brunswick banned smoking in public spaces and workplaces in October 2004. Ventilated smoking rooms are not permitted. Since 1 January 2009, tobacco products cannot be displayed prominently in stores. Since 1 January 2010. the ban was expanded to include vehicles with children under 16 present.\nAs of 2015, 14.2% of New Brunswick residents smoke.\n\nNewfoundland and Labrador banned smoking within public places such as day cares, schools, taxis, hospitals, retail stores, and recreational facilities in 1994. From 1994 to 2002 public places, such as food establishments, bars and bingo halls, and workplaces could allow smoking in designated smoking areas or rooms. In 2002, through an amendment to the Smoke-free Environment Act, smoking was banned in food establishments, shopping malls, transportation terminals, hotel/motel common areas, games arcades, public libraries and boys and girls clubs. In 2005, smoking was banned in all public spaces and workplaces, under the province's Smoke-Free Environment Act, including licensed liquor establishments and bingo halls. Enclosed, ventilated smoking rooms are permitted only in psychiatric facilities and long term care facilities. Sales of tobacco are prohibited in places such as in retail stores that have a pharmacy, on university and college campuses, or recreational facilities. Smoking in a motor vehicle, when a person under the age of 16 is present, became illegal in 2011.\nAs of 2015, 18.5% of Newfoundland and Labrador residents smoke, the highest of any province.\n\nNova Scotia banned smoking in public spaces and workplaces on 1 December 2006. Ventilated smoking rooms are permitted in nursing homes and care facilities. Tobacco products cannot be displayed prominently in stores. On 1 April 2008, smoking in a car with passengers under 19 inside became illegal. Minors are prohibited from possessing tobacco products. \nAs of 2015, 17.8% of Nova Scotia residents smoke.\n\nOntario banned smoking in public spaces and workplaces in 1994 with the passing of the \"Tobacco Control Act\" and became the first province to outlaw the sale of tobacco in pharmacies. This was replaced with the \"Smoke Free Ontario Act\" in May 2006. In 2008, a ban on retail displays of tobacco was implemented. Since 21 January 2009, smoking is banned in all vehicles if anyone under the age of 16 is present. As of 1 January 2015, smoking is prohibited province-wide on all bar and restaurant patios and within a 20-meter radius of all playgrounds and sports fields. Tobacco sales are prohibited on college and university campuses. As of January 1 2018, hospital properties must be 100% smoke-free \n\nMany Ontario municipalities (cities, counties and regions) have passed smoke-free bylaws that are stricter than the provincial Smoke Free Ontario Act, such as City of Toronto, City of Ottawa, Region of Niagara, Region of Peel, City of Hamilton, and City of Barrie.\n\nFor example, as of 2 April 2012 in Ottawa, smoke free regulations prohibit smoking on all municipal properties, including parks, playgrounds, beaches, sports fields, fruit and vegetable markets and outdoor areas around City facilities. Outdoor restaurant and bar patios and terraces are also smoke free. Smoking has also been prohibited on all public transit (OC Transpo) properties including station platforms, since 2007. Fines for non-compliance range from $305 to $5000 as per the Provincial Offences Act.\n\nHamilton banned smoking on all municipal properties, including parks, playgrounds, beaches, sports fields on 31 May 2012. Any person who contravenes a provision of this By-law is guilty of an offence and upon conviction is liable to a maximum fine of $10,000.00.\n\nIn Toronto, Municipal Code prohibits smoking within 9 meters of an entrance or exit of any building used by the public. Smoking is also prohibited in all public squares and within 9 meters of park amenities such as playgrounds, sports fields, skate parks, ski hills, picnic areas, swimming pools, theatre space, splash pads, washrooms, beaches, park zoos and farms, and service waiting lines.\n\nIn Ontario, where more than one regulation, act or bylaw exists, the one that is the most restrictive of smoking prevails.\n\nAs of 2015, 11.3% of Ontario residents smoke.\n\nPrince Edward Island banned smoking in public spaces and workplaces in 2003. Ventilated smoking rooms are only allowed in long-term care facilities.\nAs of 2015, 12.9% of Prince Edward Island residents smoke.\n\nQuebec banned smoking in public spaces and workplaces, such as offices, hospitals, restaurants and bars on 31 May 2006. Smoking is banned within a 9m radius of the entrances of social services institutions such as hospitals, community centres, CEGEP, colleges and universities. Smoking is banned on the properties of elementary and high schools. The province eliminated designated smoking rooms in 2008. The law was amended by Bill 44 in November 2015. The sale of electronic cigarettes is regulated like tobacco, including restrictions on advertising. ID requirements for tobacco sales are stricter and fines are increased. It is prohibited to sell flavoured tobacco products, including menthol. All public organizations, such as hospitals and post-secondary education institutions, must adopt a smoke-free and smoking cessation policy and report to the government. Since May 26, 2016, smoking and e-cigarettes are banned on restaurant and bar patios and terraces, playgrounds and sports fields, including a radius. Smoking in a vehicle with children under 16 is also prohibited. As of November 2016, smoking was banned within a radius of all doors, windows and air intakes of any building open to the public. Standardized warning label sizes was applied to all tobacco packages.\nAs of 2015, 14.2% of Quebec residents smoke.\n\nSaskatchewan banned smoking in public places on 1 January 2005 and banned smoking in workplaces on 31 May 2009. The province reinstated tobacco display ban (2005) requires shop owners to keep tobacco sales out of sight. There are fines of up to $10 000 for violation of the Tobacco Control Act which bans smoking in all public areas, indoor and outdoor, including clubs for veterans. Since 1 October 2010, smoking is prohibited if there are children under 16 years of age in the vehicle.\nAs of 2015, 16.9% of Saskatchewan residents smoke.\n\nThe Northwest Territories banned smoking in public places and workplaces on 1 May 2004.\n\nNunavut banned smoking in public spaces and workplace, including within three metres of entrances and exits to those buildings, on 1 May 2004. As of 2014, 62% of Nunavut residents smoke, the highest of any territory.\n\nThe Yukon banned smoking in public spaces and workplaces on 15 May 2008. It was the last of the provinces and territories to implement a ban.\n\n"}
{"id": "49389033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49389033", "title": "The Sylvia Center", "text": "The Sylvia Center\n\nThe Sylvia Center is an American, New York-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that focuses on children's nutrition by teaching children and families about healthy eating habits and cooking.\n\nThe organization's mission statement is \"to inspire young people and their families to eat well through hands-on learning experiences on the farm and in the kitchen.\"\n\nThe Sylvia Center was founded in 2006 Liz Neumark, CEO of the catering company \"Great Performances\" and advocate for sustainable agriculture\".\" Named after Neumark's daughter, Sylvia, \"The Sylvia Center\" began as a pilot culinary program for children in New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) residents.\n\nThe organization's programs include cooking classes, field trips to \"Katchkie Farm\" (an organic farm and a partner of \"The Sylvia Center\"), and gardening classes for children and families. The programs are offered in NYC through NYCHA community centers as well as Upstate New York (Kinderhook, NY and Columbia County, NY).\n"}
{"id": "4553467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4553467", "title": "Theca interna", "text": "Theca interna\n\nTheca interna cells express receptors for luteinizing hormone (LH) to produce androstenedione, which via a few steps, gives the granulosa the precursor for estrogen manufacturing.\n\nAfter rupture of the mature ovarian follicle, the theca interna cells differentiate into the theca lutein cells of the corpus luteum. Theca lutein cells secrete androgens and progesterone. Theca lutein cells are also known as small luteal cells.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5567325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5567325", "title": "Uwe Reinhardt", "text": "Uwe Reinhardt\n\nUwe Ernst Reinhardt (September 24, 1937 – November 14, 2017) was a professor of political economy at Princeton University and held several positions in the healthcare industry.\n\nReinhardt was born 1937 in Osnabrück, Germany, and later emigrated to Canada where he received his Bachelor of Commerce degree from University of Saskatchewan. He later received a Ph.D. in economics from Yale University in 1970, with a thesis titled \"An Economic Analysis of Physicians' Practices\" under the supervision of Richard Ruggles. He taught courses in economic theory and policy, accounting, and health economics and policy. Reinhardt's scholarly work focused on economics and policy and included more far-reaching topics such as cost-benefit analyses of the Lockheed L-1011 TriStar and the Space Shuttle. He died on November 14, 2017 in Princeton, NJ.\n\nIn July 2015 Reinhardt's 2013 syllabus and first lecture for a class titled \"Introductory Korean Drama\" received attention from several bloggers. By way of explanation, Reinhardt introduced the class by stating \n\nReinhardt's research focused on hospital pricing, systems of health care around the world, Medicare reform, and health care spending. His work appeared in \"Health Affairs\", \"The New England Journal of Medicine\", \"JAMA\", and \"The British Medical Journal\".\n\nIn a recent paper, Reinhardt discusses the obstacles to success of consumer-directed health care in light of the lack of transparency in hospital pricing. He suggests several reforms that could lead to better information on hospital pricing for consumer decision-making, including a national set of Diagnosis-related group weights to which each hospital could then apply its own conversion factor. Reinhardt's previous work on hospitals examined the tax and cost of equity capital advantages of not-for-profit hospitals over for-profit hospitals.\n\nReinhardt's scholarship analyzed the U.S. health care industry in relation to systems around the world. He argued that higher U.S. health spending is a result of higher U.S. per capita gross domestic product (GDP) as well as intricate and disjointed payment systems. Reinhardt's work on foreign systems of health care includes a 2004 analysis of Switzerland that appeared in \"The Journal of the American Medical Association\". In it, Reinhardt argued that there is little correlation between the prevalence of consumer choice and the high quality of Swiss health care.\n\nIn 2003, Reinhardt, along with 14 other prominent health policy experts and private health care industry leaders, signed an open letter arguing that Medicare should lead the U.S. health care industry in paying for performance by tying financial reimbursement to quality measures.\n\nReinhardt's work on health care spending includes his argument that the aging of the U.S. population is not the primary cause of the growth in U.S. health care spending.\n\nIn addition to his university duties, Reinhardt was active as an advisor for government, non-profit organizations, and private industry and held directorships in various for-profit companies in the health industry. Reinhardt served on the Governing Council of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences between 1979 and 1982, after election to the Institute in 1978. At the Institute, he served on a number of study panels, including, the Committee on the Implications of For-Profit Medicine, the Committee on Technical Innovation in Medicine, the Committee on the Implications of a Physicians Surplus, and the Committee on the U.S. Physician Supply. In 1996, he was appointed to the Board of Health Care services of the Institute.\n\nFrom 1986-1995, Reinhardt served three consecutive three-year terms as a Commissioner on the Physician Payment Review Commission (PPRC), established in 1986 by the Congress to advise it on issues related to the payment of physicians. Reinhardt serves as a Commissioner for the Kaiser Family Foundation Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured. Reinhardt was or is a member of numerous editorial boards, among them The New England Journal of Medicine, JAMA, The Journal of Health Economics, the Milbank Quarterly, and Health Affairs.\n\nReinhardt served as a trustee of Duke University and the Tekla Family of Funds. He also served on the Boards of Directors of Boston Scientific Corporation, a leading maker of medical devices, and Amerigroup Corporation, a large health insurer whose clients consist primarily of persons enrolled in Medicare. He served on the Board of Directors of Triad Hospitals, Inc, until that company was merged into Community Health Systems in 2007. He was a regular contributor to the \"New York Times\"' Economix blog, where he wrote about economic matters, particularly the economics of health care.\n\nIn 1989, as Taiwan was restructuring its healthcare system, Reinhardt persuaded its leaders to model it on those of Canada and Germany. Taiwan's system now provides universal care for 6.6% of GDP. For his contribution, in 2014 he was awarded the nation's Presidential Prize.\n\nIn the 2009 \"Frontline\" show \"Sick Around \nAmerica\", Reinhardt criticized the United States for spending 24% of every health care dollar on administration, and pointed out that Canada spends less than half of the U.S. amount and Taiwan spends significantly less than Canada. Reinhardt faulted the seeming U.S. preference for an unwieldy \"mishmash of private insurance plans\" for the inefficiency. He said if the U.S. could spend half as much on administration, it would save more than enough money to cover all the uninsured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12661386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12661386", "title": "Whole body vibration", "text": "Whole body vibration\n\nWhole body vibration (WBV) is a generic term used when vibrations (mechanical oscillations) of any frequency are transferred to the human body. Humans are exposed to vibration through a contact surface that is in a mechanical vibrating state. Human's are generally exposed to many different forms of vibration in their daily lives. This could be a driver's seat, a moving train platform, through a power tool, a training platform, or one of countless other devices. It is a potential form of occupational hazard, particularly after years of exposure.\n\nWhen high frequency vibrations (above 50 Hz) enter though the hands, occupational safety concerns may arise. For example, when working with a jackhammer and the development of vibration white finger. Exposures and limits have been estimated in the ISO 5349-1 for hand-transmitted vibration.\n\nWhole body vibration training as a form of physical exercise can offer some fitness and health benefits, but it is not clear if it is as beneficial as regular physical exercise. A review in 2014 came to the conclusion that there is little and inconsistent evidence that acute and/or chronic whole body vibration could improve the performance of competitive and/or elite athletes.\n\nHumans are sensitive to mechanical oscillations ranging in frequency from well below 1 Hz up to 100 Hz. Lower frequencies of vibration lead to human motion sickness while higher frequencies can lead to general annoyance and discomfort. The minimization of discomfort due to vehicle vibration is important in the automotive industry where ride quality is important. Discomfort and even pain may extremely prevalent in situations where medically injured patients are transported. The discomfort due to vibration can estimated in various environments.\n\nWorkplace exposures to whole-body vibrations for long durations can lead to musculoskeletal problems of many kinds. Problems of the neck and lower back in particular can be common for operators of heavy equipment including construction, forestry, agriculture, and trucking. Other occupations where whole-body vibrations may be present include operatorsof aircraft, workers on-board sea vessels, drivers of public transportation including trains and buses among others.\n\nFarmers with long-term exposure to whole body vibration and mechanical shocks have a higher prevalence of back pain (compared to those not exposed to vibration), and the prevalence increases with vibration dose. Long-term exposure affecting the whole body leads to spinal degeneration (spondylosis) and increased risk of low back pain.\n\nFactors that affect the occupational exposure to whole-body vibration include the frequency of vibrations, the magnitude of vibrations, the daily exposure to vibrations, the standing or seating posture of the operator, the direction of the vibration, and how tightly coupled the human is to the source of the vibration. Exposure limits and estimates have been characterized in the ISO 2631-1 for whole-body vibration. Measurements of vibration exposure are usually taken at the human/vibration interface.\n\nInjured patients can be exposed to shocks and vibrations during transport which can worsen patient conditions due to involuntary motions of the body. Many forms of immobilization devices are used to limit this motion with varying degrees of success. Common modes of patient transport include hand carried stretcher (litter), ground ambulance, and air medical services which all contain multiple forms of shocks and whole-body vibrations.\n\nMeasurements are taken with accelerometers to estimate the amount of vibration exposure to the human body. These measurements are taken at the human body or at the vibration source or surface. Measurements of different directions are taken to relate the motion direction with the response of the human body. Specifically, transfer functions can be used to determine the human response to the vibration. Measurement techniques for estimating exposures to whole body vibrations and hand-arm vibration have been developed in International Standards.\n\nVibration training is the deliberate exposure to the body of varying frequencies/amplitudes/forces using certain joint angles for any limited time (approximately 1 minute sets). It is also known as vibration therapy,vibrotherapy, biomechanical stimulation (BMS), mechanostimulation and biomechanical oscillation (BMO). It employs low amplitude, low frequency mechanical stimulation. It can be pivotal/oscillating (vibrating from side to side) or lineal (vibrating up and down).\n\nThe immediate predecessor of modern vibration training is Rhythmic Neuromuscular Stimulation (RNS). In former East Germany Biermann was experimenting with the use of cyclic massage and its effects on trunk flexion back in the sixties (\"Biermann, 1960\").\n\nThe technique has been tested on turkeys in the hope of finding a benefit that could be used for astronauts. For the used technology an engineering issues came into play when they tried to upgrade the machine to take the weight of a human being. Once the vibration intensity grew strong enough to lift over 40 kg, fractures appeared in the steel. Using a different mechnanical stimulation approach the first bedrest study using a vibration training device for humans was done by the European Space Agency (ESA) in 2003 in Berlin (Berlin Bedrest Study, BBR). The same technology was then used in several parabolic flight campaigns of the DLR (German Aerospace Agency) starting in 2006 where the feasibility of use of a lightweight vibration training device under microgravity conditions was demonstrated and ein 2009 and 2010 where basic research on influence of microgravity on vibration training effects was investigated.\n\nNASA, since 1961, has been doing tests at adding light vibrations to pre-existing exercise equipment’s and systems to minimize vibration transmission of existing exercise devices to the space station like the Treadmill Vibration Isolation System (TVIS) and the Cycle Ergometer Vibration Isolation System (CEVIS). Any company referencing NASA directly in its marketing campaigns is highly misleading and has no relevance to the discipline of vibration training.\n\nThe first Galileo machine patent was filed in 1996 in the same year the first Galileo device was commercially available. In 1996 the first Galileo vibrating dumbbell patent was filed.\n\nAccording to Mayo Clinic, whole body vibration can offer some fitness and health benefits, but it is not clear if it is as beneficial as regular physical exercise. A review in 2014 came to the conclusion that there is little and inconsistent evidence that acute and/or chronic whole body vibration could improve the performance of competitive and/or elite athletes.\n\nCochrane reviews have concluded that there is insufficient evidence of effect of whole body vibration training on functional performance of people with neurodegenerative disease, or in disease-related problems in people with fibromyalgia.\n\nVibrating platforms fall into different, distinct categories. The type of platform used is a moderator of the effect and result of the training or therapy performed (\"Marin PJ, Rhea MR, 2010\"). Main categories of machine types are: \nOther machine types are low Energy/Low amplitude lineal and Low energy/High amplitude lineal.\n\nConcerning the z-movements, two main types of system can be distinguished (\"Marin PJ et al. 2010\", \"Rittweger 2010\", \"Rauch 2010\") :\nSystems with side alternation usually have a larger amplitude of oscillation and a frequency range of about 5 Hz to 40 Hz. Linear/upright systems have lower amplitudes but higher frequencies in the range of 20 Hz to 50 Hz.\nDespite the larger amplitudes of side-alternating systems, the vibration (acceleration) transmitted to the head is significantly smaller than in non side-alternating systems (\"Abercromby et al. 2007\") while at the same time muscle activation even at identical vibration parameters are increased in pivotal systems.\n\nMechanical stimulation generates acceleration forces acting on the body. These forces cause the muscles to lengthen, and this signal is received by the muscle spindle, a small organ in the muscle. This spindle transmits the signal through the central nervous system to the muscles involved (\"Abercromby et al. 2007\", \"Burkhardt 2006\").\n\nPower Plate is a brand of vibrating platform consisting of a vibrating base, which may vibrate up and down approximately (1/16\") 25 to 50 times per second. The machine is large enough to accommodate a person in deep squat. Traditional exercises such as squats and push-ups can be done on the vibrating base.\n\nGalileo (in the US up until 2014 also available as Vibraflex) is a brand of vibration training platforms used as exercise equipment as well as for therapeutic use. It consists of a vibration platform which vibrates sinusoidal side alternating like a see-saw. Depending on the device size it oscillates with an amplitude of up to 6 mm (equivalent to a peak to peak distance of 12 mm) and a frequency of 5 Hz to 40 Hz (5 to 40 repetitions per second). Galileo is manufactured in Germany by the German company Novotec Medical GmbH. Since 2004 Galileo is also available as a medical device.\n\nThe base plate of Galileo vibration training devices is moving like a see-saw. This side alternating motion is supposed to mimic human gait in order to utilize nearly physiological motion patterns close to the side alternating human gait. The side alternation causes the hip to tilt which requires the contra lateral muscles of the back to be activated – while one leg is lifted the other drops. Compared to vertically vibrating devices the side alternating motion results in very low acceleration acting on the centre of gravity of the upper body and the head.\n\nA vibrating belt machine (also Mueller belt machine, belt massager, or jiggler machine) is an exercise machine that uses a vibrating belt, to be used around the waist or buttocks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24361621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24361621", "title": "Wholesome Meat Act", "text": "Wholesome Meat Act\n\nThe Wholesome Meat Act (also called \"Equal To\" law) is a United States federal law enacted in 1967 amending the Federal Meat Inspection Act which established a statute for federal meat inspection programs. It requires that states have inspection programs \"equal to\" that of the federal government which are administered by the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).\n\nThe H.R. 12144 legislation was passed by the 90th United States Congressional session and enacted into law by the 36th President of the United States Lyndon Johnson on December 15, 1967.\n\n\n"}
