{"id": "40402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40402", "title": "1876 United States presidential election", "text": "1876 United States presidential election\n\nThe United States presidential election of 1876 was the 23rd quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 7, 1876. It was one of the most contentious and controversial presidential elections in American history, and is known for being the catalyst for the end of Reconstruction. Republican nominee Rutherford B. Hayes faced Democrat Samuel Tilden. After a controversial post-election process, Hayes was declared the winner.\n\nAfter President Ulysses S. Grant declined to seek a third term despite previously being expected to do so, Congressman James G. Blaine emerged as the front-runner for the Republican nomination. However, Blaine was unable to win a majority at the 1876 Republican National Convention, which settled on Governor Hayes of Ohio as a compromise candidate. The 1876 Democratic National Convention nominated Governor Tilden of New York on the second ballot.\n\nThe results of the election remain among the most disputed ever, although it is not disputed that Tilden outpolled Hayes in the popular vote. After a first count of votes, Tilden won 184 electoral votes to Hayes's 165, with 20 votes from four states unresolved. In the case of Florida, Louisiana, and South Carolina, each party reported its candidate had won the state, while in Oregon one elector was replaced after being declared illegal for being an \"elected or appointed official\". The question of who should have been awarded these electoral votes is the source of the continued controversy. An informal deal was struck to resolve the dispute: the Compromise of 1877, which awarded all 20 electoral votes to Hayes. In return for the Democrats' acquiescence to Hayes's election, the Republicans agreed to withdraw federal troops from the South, ending Reconstruction. The Compromise effectively ceded power in the Southern states to the Democratic Redeemers, who proceeded to disenfranchise black voters in subsequent years.\n\nThe 1876 election is one of five presidential elections in which the person who won the most popular votes did not win the election, and the only such election in which the popular vote winner received a majority (rather than a plurality) of the popular vote. To date, it remains the election that recorded the smallest electoral vote victory (185–184) and the election that yielded the highest voter turnout of the eligible voting age population in American history, at 81.8%. It was also the first presidential election since 1856 in which the Democratic candidate won the popular vote.\n\nIt was widely assumed during the year 1875 that incumbent President Ulysses S. Grant would run for a third term as president in spite of the poor economic conditions, the numerous political scandals that had developed since he assumed office in 1869, and a long-standing tradition set by the first president, George Washington, not to stay in office longer than two terms. Grant's inner circle advised him to go for a third term and he almost did, but the House, by a sweeping 233 to 18 vote, passed a resolution declaring that the two-term tradition was to prevent a dictatorship. Late in the year, the president withdrew from the running for 1876.\n\nWhen the Sixth Republican National Convention assembled on June 14, 1876, it appeared that James G. Blaine would be the nominee. On the first ballot, Blaine was just 100 votes short of a majority. His vote began to slide after the second ballot, however, as many Republicans feared that Blaine could not win the general election. Anti-Blaine delegates could not agree on a candidate until Blaine's total rose to 41% on the sixth ballot. Leaders of the reform Republicans met privately and considered alternatives. Their choice was Ohio's reform governor, Rutherford B. Hayes. On the seventh ballot, Hayes was nominated with 384 votes to 351 for Blaine and 21 for Benjamin Bristow. William A. Wheeler was nominated for vice-president by a much larger margin (366–89) over his chief rival, Frederick Theodore Frelinghuysen, who later served as a member of the electoral commission that awarded the election to Hayes.\n\nDemocratic candidates:\n\nThe 12th Democratic National Convention assembled in St. Louis, Missouri, in June 1876, the first political convention held by one of the major American parties west of the Mississippi River. Five thousand people jammed the auditorium in St. Louis with hopes for the first presidential victory for the Democratic Party in 20 years. The platform called for immediate and sweeping reforms in response to the scandals that had plagued the Grant administration. Tilden won more than 400 votes on the first ballot and the nomination by a landslide on the second.\n\nTilden defeated Thomas A. Hendricks, Winfield Scott Hancock, William Allen, Thomas F. Bayard, and Joel Parker for the presidential nomination. Although Tilden was strongly opposed by \"Honest John\" Kelly, the leader of New York's Tammany Hall, he was still able to obtain the nomination. Thomas Hendricks was nominated for vice-president, since he was the only person put forward for the position.\n\nThe Democratic platform pledged to replace the corruption of the Grant administration with honest, efficient government and to end \"the rapacity of carpetbag tyrannies\" in the South. It also called for treaty protection for naturalized United States citizens visiting their homelands, restrictions on Asian immigration, tariff reform, and opposition to land grants for railroads.\n\nIt has been claimed that Tilden's nomination was received by the voting Democrats with more enthusiasm than any leader since Andrew Jackson.\n\nSource: \"Official proceedings of the National Democratic convention, held in St. Louis, Mo., June 27th, 28th and 29th, 1876\". (September 3, 2012).\nSource: \"Official proceedings of the National Democratic convention, held in St. Louis, Mo., June 27th, 28th and 29th, 1876\". (September 3, 2012).\n\nGreenback candidates:\n\nThe Greenback Party had been organized by agricultural interests in Indianapolis in 1874 to urge the federal government to inflate the economy through the mass issuance of paper money called greenbacks. Its first national nominating convention was held in Indianapolis in the spring of 1876. Peter Cooper was nominated for president with 352 votes to 119 for three other contenders. The convention nominated anti-monopolist Senator Newton Booth of California for vice-president; after Booth declined to run, the national committee chose Samuel Fenton Cary as his replacement on the ticket. \n\nSource: US President - G Convention. \"Our Campaigns\". (February 10, 2012).\n\nThe Prohibition Party, in its second national convention, nominated Green Clay Smith as its presidential candidate and Gideon T. Stewart as its vice-presidential candidate.\n\nThis small political party used several different names, often with different names in different states. It was a continuation of the Anti-Masonic Party that met in 1872 and nominated Charles Francis Adams for president. When Adams declined to run, the party did not contest the 1872 election.\n\nThe convention was held from June 8 to 10, 1875, in Liberty Hall, Pittsburgh. B.T. Roberts of New York served as chairman, and Jonathan Blanchard was the keynote speaker.\n\nThe platform supported the Reconstruction Amendments to the Constitution, international arbitration, the reading of the scriptures in public schools, specie payments, justice for Native Americans, abolition of the Electoral College, and prohibition of the sale of alcoholic beverages. It declared the first day of the week to be a day of rest for the United States. The platform opposed secret societies and monopolies.\n\nThe convention considered three potential presidential nominees: Charles F. Adams, Jonathan Blanchard, and James B. Walker. When Blanchard declined to run, Walker was unanimously nominated. The convention then nominated Donald Kirkpatrick of New York unanimously for vice-president.\n\nTilden, who had prosecuted machine politicians in New York and sent legendary political boss William M. Tweed to jail, ran as a reform candidate against the background of the corruption of the Grant administration. Both parties backed civil service reform and an end to Reconstruction. Both sides mounted mud-slinging campaigns, with Democratic attacks on Republican corruption being countered by Republicans raising the Civil War issue, a tactic ridiculed by Democrats who called it \"waving the bloody shirt\". Republicans chanted, \"Not every Democrat was a rebel, but every rebel was a Democrat.\"\n\nHayes was a virtual unknown outside his home state of Ohio, where he had served two terms as a Congressman and then two terms as governor. Henry Adams wrote \"[Hayes] is a third-rate nonentity whose only recommendations are that he is obnoxious to no one.\" He had served in the Civil War with distinction as colonel of the 23rd Ohio Regiment and was wounded several times, which made him marketable to veterans. He had been brevetted as a Major General. Hayes's most important asset was the help he provided the Republican ticket in carrying the crucial swing state of Ohio. On the other side, newspaper man John D. Defrees described Tilden as \"a very nice, prim, little, withered-up, fidgety old bachelor, about one-hundred and twenty-pounds avoirdupois, who never had a genuine impulse for many nor any affection for woman.\"\n\nThe Democratic strategy for victory in the South was highly reliant on paramilitary groups such as the Red Shirts and the White League. Using the strategy of the Mississippi Plan, these groups actively suppressed black and white Republican voter turnouts by disrupting meetings and rallies and even using violence and intimidation. They saw themselves as the military wing of the Democratic Party.\n\nBecause it was considered improper for a candidate to pursue the presidency actively, neither Tilden nor Hayes actively stumped as part of the campaign, leaving that job to surrogates.\n\nColorado was admitted to the Union as the 38th state on August 1, 1876. With insufficient time or money to organize a presidential election in the new state, Colorado's state legislature selected the state's electors. These electors in turn gave their three votes to Hayes and the Republican Party. This was the last election in which any state chose electors through its state legislature.\n\nIn Florida (with 4 electoral votes), Louisiana (with 8), and South Carolina (with 7), reported returns favored Tilden, but election results in each state were marked by fraud and threats of violence against Republican voters. The most egregious case was in South Carolina, where an impossible 101 percent of all eligible voters in the state had their votes counted. One of the points of contention revolved around the design of ballots. At the time, parties would print ballots or \"tickets\" to enable voters to support them in the open ballots. To aid illiterate voters the parties would print symbols on the tickets. In this election, many Democratic ballots were printed with the Republican symbol, Abraham Lincoln, on them. The Republican-dominated state electoral commissions subsequently disallowed a sufficient number of Democratic votes to award their electoral votes to Hayes.\n\nIn two southern states, the governor recognized by the United States had signed the Republican certificates. The Democratic certificates from Florida were signed by the state attorney-general and the new Democratic governor. Those from Louisiana were signed by the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, and those from South Carolina by no state official. In the latter state, the Tilden electors simply claimed that they were chosen by the popular vote, and they were rejected by the state election board.\n\nMeanwhile, in Oregon, the vote of a single elector was disputed. The statewide result clearly favored Hayes, but the state's Democratic governor, La Fayette Grover, claimed that one elector, former postmaster John Watts, was ineligible under Article II, Section 1, of the United States Constitution, since he was a \"person holding an office of trust or profit under the United States.\" Grover then substituted a Democratic elector in his place. The two Republican electors dismissed Grover's action and each reported three votes for Hayes, while the Democratic elector, C.A. Cronin, reported one vote for Tilden and two votes for Hayes. The two Republican electors presented a certificate signed by the secretary of state of Oregon. Cronin and the two electors he appointed (Cronin voted for Tilden while his associates voted for Hayes) used a certificate signed by the governor and attested by the secretary of state. Ultimately, all three of Oregon's votes were awarded to Hayes.\n\nHayes thus had a majority of one in the Electoral College. The Democrats cried fraud. Suppressed excitement pervaded the country. Threats were even muttered that Hayes would never be inaugurated. In Columbus, Ohio, a shot was fired at Governor Hayes's residence as he sat down to dinner. Supporters marched to his home, calling for the \"president\". Hayes urged the crowd that, \"it is impossible, at so early a time, to obtain the result.\" President Grant quietly strengthened the military force in and around Washington.\n\nThe Constitution provides that \"the President of the Senate shall, in presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the [electoral] certificates, and the votes shall then be counted.\" Certain Republicans held that the power to count the votes lay with the President of the Senate, the House and Senate being mere spectators. The Democrats objected to this construction, since Mr. Ferry, the Republican President of the Senate, could then count the votes of the disputed states for Hayes. The Democrats insisted that Congress should continue the practice followed since 1865, which was that no vote objected to should be counted except by the concurrence of both houses. The House had a solid Democratic majority; by throwing out the vote of one state, it could elect Tilden.\n\nFacing an unprecedented constitutional crisis, the Congress of the United States passed a law on January 29, 1877 that formed a 15-member Electoral Commission to settle the result. Five members were selected from each house of Congress, and they were joined by five members of the Supreme Court. William M. Evarts served as counsel for the Republican Party. The Compromise of 1877 might have helped the Democrats accept this electoral commission as well.\n\nThe majority party in each house named three members and the minority party two. As the Republicans controlled the Senate and the Democrats the House of Representatives, this yielded five Democratic and five Republican members of the Commission. Of the Supreme Court justices, two Republicans and two Democrats were chosen, with the fifth to be selected by these four.\n\nThe justices first selected a political independent, Justice David Davis. According to one historian, \"[n]o one, perhaps not even Davis himself, knew which presidential candidate he preferred.\" Just as the Electoral Commission Bill was passing Congress, the legislature of Illinois elected Davis to the Senate. Democrats in the Illinois legislature believed that they had purchased Davis's support by voting for him. However, they had made a miscalculation; instead of staying on the Supreme Court so that he could serve on the Commission, he promptly resigned as a Justice in order to take his Senate seat. All the remaining available justices were Republicans, so the four justices already selected chose Justice Joseph P. Bradley, who was considered the most impartial remaining member of the court. This selection proved decisive.\nIt was drawing perilously near to Inauguration Day. The commission met on the last day of January. The cases of Florida, Louisiana, Oregon, and South Carolina were in succession submitted to it by Congress. Eminent counsel appeared for each side. There were double sets of returns from every one of the states named.\n\nThe commission first decided not to question any returns that were \"prima facie\" lawful. Bradley joined the other seven Republican committee members in a series of 8–7 votes that gave all 20 disputed electoral votes to Hayes, giving Hayes a 185–184 electoral vote victory. The commission adjourned on March 2; two days later Hayes was inaugurated without disturbance.\n\nDuring intense closed-door meetings, Democratic leaders agreed with reluctance to accept Hayes as president in return for the withdrawal of Federal troops from the last two still-occupied Southern states, South Carolina and Louisiana. Republican leaders in return agreed on a number of handouts and entitlements, including Federal subsidies for a transcontinental railroad line through the South. Although some of these promises were not kept, in particular the railroad proposal, it was enough for the time being to avert a dangerous standoff.\n\nThe returns accepted by the Commission put Hayes' margin of victory in South Carolina at 889 votes, the second-closest popular vote margin in a decisive state in U.S. history, after the election of 2000, which was decided by 537 votes in Florida (though in 2000, the declared margin of victory in the Electoral College for George W. Bush was five votes, as opposed to Hayes' one vote).\n\nIt is not possible to conclude definitively what the result would have been if a fair election had been held without the violence and intimidation throughout the South that disenfranchised many African Americans made eligible to vote under the 15th Amendment. Nevertheless, in the likeliest fair scenario, Hayes would have won the election with 189 electoral votes to Tilden's 180 by winning all of the states that he did ultimately carry, plus Mississippi, but minus Florida. In a truly fair election, it seems probable that South Carolina, Mississippi, and Louisiana, which all had majority black populations, would have gone Republican. Regardless, Hayes would be the last Republican until Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1956 to win the electoral votes of Louisiana and the last Republican until Barry M. Goldwater in 1964 to carry South Carolina. Florida, with a majority white population, would have likely gone to Tilden in a fair election. It is therefore likely that Hayes would have won appreciably more of the popular vote in a fair election, perhaps even a plurality or majority.\n\nUpon his defeat, Tilden said, \"I can retire to public life with the consciousness that I shall receive from posterity the credit of having been elected to the highest position in the gift of the people, without any of the cares and responsibilities of the office.\" Hayes paid off those who helped him win the electoral college with government sinecures.\n\nAccording to the Commission's rulings, of the 2,249 counties and independent cities making returns, Tilden won in 1,301 (57.85%) while Hayes carried only 947 (42.11%). One county (0.04%) in Nevada split evenly between Tilden and Hayes.\n\nWhile the Greenback ticket did not have a major impact on the election's outcome, attracting slightly under one percent of the popular vote, Cooper nonetheless had the strongest performance of any third-party presidential candidate since John Bell in 1860. The Greenbacks' best showings were in Kansas, where Cooper earned just over six percent of the vote, and Indiana, where he earned 17,207 votes, far exceeding Tilden's roughly 5,500 vote margin of victory over Hayes in that state.\n\nThe election of 1876 was the last one held before the end of the Reconstruction era, which sought to protect the rights of African Americans in the South who usually voted for Republican presidential candidates. No antebellum slave state would be carried by a Republican again until the 1896 realignment, and it was not until the election of 1920 that one of the states of the Confederacy was ever again carried by a Republican presidential candidate. In that case, it was Tennessee, a state that never experienced a long period of occupation by Federal troops and was completely \"reconstructed\" well before the first presidential election of the Reconstruction period (1868). None of the Southern states that experienced long periods of occupation by Federal troops was carried by a Republican again until the election of 1928 (Texas, Florida, North Carolina, and Virginia). This proved the last election in which the Republicans won Louisiana until 1956 and the last in which the Republicans won South Carolina until 1964. The next time those two states voted against the Democrats was when they supported the Dixiecrats in 1948; Louisiana also voted against the Democrats in 1968 by voting for Wallace.\n\nAlthough 1876 marked the last competitive two party election in the South before Democratic dominance of the South through 1948 and of the border states through 1896, it was also the last election (as of 2017) in which the Democrats won the pro-union counties of Mitchell in North Carolina, Wayne and Henderson in Tennessee, and Lewis County, Kentucky. The election was also the last time a Republican won the presidency without carrying Indiana.\n\nSource: Data from Walter Dean Burnham, \"Presidential ballots, 1836-1892\" (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1955) pp 247–57.\n\nMargin of victory less than 5% (171 electoral votes):\n\nMargin of victory between 5% and 10% (33 electoral votes):\n\nThe presidential election of 1876 is a major theme of Gore Vidal's novel \"1876\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35148597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35148597", "title": "Against Chess Olympiad", "text": "Against Chess Olympiad\n\nThe Against Chess Olympiad ( \"al-Awlambayād aḍ-ḍādi ash-Shatranji\") was arranged as an alternative to the official 22nd Chess Olympiad, held in Haifa, Israel, almost simultaneously. This unofficial Olympiad took place in Tripoli, Libyan Arab Republic from October 24 to November 15, 1976.\n\nWhen FIDE decided to award the hosting of the 1976 Olympiad to Israel, it caused considerable controversy, as several countries, including the Soviet Union and all of the Arab nations, did not recognize the state of Israel. After FIDE refused to change the venue, the Soviet team boycotted the tournament in Haifa in protest, as did all the Soviet satellite states in the Eastern Bloc, and the Arab member nations of FIDE. \n\nThe Arab nations held their own Olympiad in Tripoli at the same time as the official one. In the promotion material, this event was called the \"Against Israel Olympiad\", but it has later become known by the politically less volatile name \"Against Chess Olympiad\".\n\nWhile the unofficial Tripoli Olympiad was a highly charged political event, the actual chess played was on quite a different level. None of the major chess nations, Eastern or Western, came to Libya, meaning the field consisted of the Arab states, a number of minor chess nations, and some that were not members of FIDE at the time. No Grandmasters were present, and very few International Masters attended. \n\nThe Philippines, Italy, and Uruguay were the only nations to send teams to both Olympiads, and none of them were able to win any medals at either event.\n\nThirty-four teams played a 13-round Swiss system tournament. In a somewhat surprising outcome, the completely unknown Salvadoran team, which included 17-year-old talent Boris Pineda, took home the gold medals. Silver and bronze went to Tunisia and Pakistan, respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "764726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764726", "title": "Andrei Zhelyabov", "text": "Andrei Zhelyabov\n\nAfter graduating from a gymnasium in Kerch in 1869, Zhelyabov got into a Law School of the Novorossiysky University in Odessa. He was expelled from the university for his participation in student unrests in October 1871 and sent away from Odessa. In 1873, Zhelyabov lived in a town of Gorodische (now Cherkas'ka oblast' of Ukraine) and maintained close ties with revolutionaries from Kiev and activists of the Ukrainian \"Gromada\". After his return to Odessa, Zhelyabov became a member of the revolutionary Felix Volkhovsky group (the Odessa affiliate of “Chaikovtsi”) and conducted propaganda among workers and intelligentsia. He was arrested in late 1874 and then released on bail. Nevertheless, he continued his illegal activities. Zhelyabov was one of the suspects in the \"Trial of the 193\". After his acquittal in 1878, he moved to Podolsk province for the purpose of spreading revolutionary propaganda among the peasantry.\n\nZhelyabov gradually came to believe in the necessity of violent political struggle and terror. He participated in the Lipetsk Congress of political terrorists in June 1879. Zhelyabov was accepted in “Zemlya i volya” at the Voronezh Congress of its members and came forward as one of the chief defenders of terrorism. After the split of \"Zemlya i volya\", he was one of the main organizers of \"Narodnaya volya\" and its newspaper \"Worker’s Gazette\" (fall of 1880). Zhelyabov took active part in devising a few of the most important documents of the party's Program. Also, he was one of the chief organizers of the assassination of Alexander II of Russia on March 1, 1881. However, he had been arrested a few days before it actually happened. Zhelyabov demanded that his case be considered together with the case of the Pervomartovtsi. He was executed by hanging on April 3, 1881 with the rest of the terrorists, including his wife Sophia Perovskaya.\n\nIn admiration of Zhelyabov’s dedication to his revolutionary cause, Vladimir Lenin went as far as to compare him with other great revolutionaries, such as Maximilien Robespierre and Giuseppe Garibaldi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2752656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2752656", "title": "Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist)", "text": "Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist)\n\nThe Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist) (ALP-AC) was the name initially used by the right-wing group which arose from the 1955 Labor split. In 1957 it changed its name to the Democratic Labor Party, and was dissolved in 1978.\n\nAs part of the ALP split of 1955, in April 1955, 7 Victorian federal MPs and 18 state MPs were expelled from the ALP. The federal MPs were: Tom Andrews, Bill Bourke, Bill Bryson, Jack Cremean, Bob Joshua, Stan Keon and Jack Mullens.\n\nOn the night of 19 April 1955, Henry Bolte raised a motion of no-confidence against Cain's government in the Legislative Assembly. After twelve hours of debate on the motion, in the early hours of 20 April, 11 of the expelled Labor members crossed the floor to support Bolte's motion. With his government defeated, Cain sought and received a dissolution of parliament later that day, with the election set down for 28 May..\n\nThe expelled ALP members formed the Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist) under the influence of B. A. Santamaria. \n\nAt the 1955 Victorian election held in May, 11 of the 12 expelled MPs in the Victorian Legislative Assembly, as well as other candidates, and the one MP facing re-election in the Victorian Legislative Council lost their seats. The party drew 12.6% of the vote, mainly from the ALP, but because its vote was widely spread only one of its candidates, the expelled Labor member Frank Scully, was re-elected. The party directed its 12.6% vote to the Coalition, and most of its supporters followed the party's preferences. Labor won 37.6% of the vote and 20 seats to the Liberals' 34 and the Country Party's ten. In any event, the Cain Labor Government lost government at the 1955 election. Five MPs whose terms had not expired remained in the Legislative Council until the expiry of their terms at the 1958 Victorian election, and all who recontested their seats were defeated.\n\nFrank Scully was the only expelled MP returned. He had been a Minister in the Cain Government and a member of the Catholic Social Studies Movement (\"The Movement\") in Victoria, and was expelled from the ministry and the ALP as part of the 1955 split. He won the seat of Richmond in the Victorian Legislative Assembly in May 1955 and was the only member of the DLP in the Assembly until 1958. \n\nAll the 7 expelled federal MPs were defeated at the 1955 federal election held in December. However, Frank McManus was elected as a senator for Victoria at the 1955 election, and successful ALP candidate George Cole had chosen before the election to become part of this party. \n\nThe parliamentary membership of the ALP (Anti-Communist) was almost entirely Roman Catholic. The only two non-Catholics were its federal leader, Bob Joshua, who represented Ballarat in the Australian House of Representatives, and Jack Little, who led the party in the Victoria Legislative Council between 1955 and 1958. It has been suggested that the party was substantially a party of Irish-ethnics, a result of the ALP split of 1955 being a 'de-ethnicisation', a forcible removal of the Irish-Catholic element within the ALP. However, many ALP (Anti-Communist) members were not of Irish descent. The party attracted many voters among migrants from Catholic countries in southern Europe, and among anti-Communist Eastern European refugees. \n\nIn 1957, the party changed its name to the Democratic Labor Party, which formally dissolved in 1978. Those party members who refused to accept the party's dissolution, formed a successor party, the Democratic Labour Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "46925725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46925725", "title": "Black armband protest", "text": "Black armband protest\n\nThe black armband protest was made by Zimbabwean cricketers Andy Flower and Henry Olonga during the 2003 Cricket World Cup. The pair decided to wear black armbands to \"mourn the death of democracy in Zimbabwe\". The protest received condemnation from senior Zimbabwean political figures, and also some senior Zimbabwean cricket figures, but was praised by the international media. The International Cricket Council deemed that Flower and Olonga had taken a political action, but refused to charge the pair with an offence. Their initial protest was during Zimbabwe's first match of the tournament in Harare, and the pair wore armbands to protest at all of the matches. As a result of the protest, Flower and Olonga were forced to leave Zimbabwe, and both men later settled in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe 2003 Cricket World Cup was awarded to South Africa, however they decided to award six of the group stage matches to Zimbabwe, and two to Kenya. Due to security concerns in Zimbabwe, the British and Australian governments both advised their players against travelling to Zimbabwe. In the end, England forfeited their match, whilst Australia played and won their match.\n\nThe idea of a protest was started when Andy Flower was taken by a friend, Nigel Huff, to see a farm impacted by the government's land reforms. In 2000, Robert Mugabe and the Zimbabwean government had begun a plan of land reforms for redistribution of 3,000 farms, and began compulsorily seizing land from white farmers, with forced evictions and arrests on the basis of \"illegally occupying their land\". By 2002, it was estimated that around 80% of the 4,500 farms that had been white-owned had been forcibly seized. Another related issue was human rights abuses and violence, particularly against political opponents in the leadup to the 2002 Zimbabwe presidential election. The EU had imposed sanctions on Zimbabwe's ruling elite, which, as of 2017, are still in place. Flower was particularly appalled by the torture of Zimbabwean MP Job Sikhala.\n\nAfter Flower had decided to protest, he decided that he wanted Olonga to partner him in the protest, as \"one white Zimbabwean and one black one operating together gave the message the most eloquent balance.\" Olonga was the first black, and the youngest ever, cricketer to play for Zimbabwe. They met up in a news café in Harare to plan the protest, originally considering withdrawing from the World Cup, but later deciding to protest instead. The pair spoke with lawyer David Coltart, a founding member of the Movement for Democratic Change. Coltart suggested wearing black armbands, and helped word the statement in a non-incriminating way.\n\nThe match in question was between Zimbabwe and Namibia on 10 March 2003. The match was being played at the Harare Sports Club, and was the first World Cup match hosted in Zimbabwe. Prior to the protest, the only other Zimbabwean player who knew about the protest was Andy's brother Grant. In the end, the pair did not have any black armbands, and so used black insulating tape instead. Shortly before the match, they delivered their 450-word statement to the press. The statement later became commonly known as \"mourning the death of democracy in Zimbabwe\":\nIn the match, Zimbabwe batted first, and the public at the ground were not aware of the protest until the 22nd over, when Flower came out to bat wearing a black armband. Olonga was also seen wearing a black armband on the Zimbabwe team balcony. The crowd of 4,000 at the ground were supportive of the protest, and a number of them made their own black armbands during the match. In the match itself, Flower scored 39, as Zimbabwe reached 340/2, and Olonga took 0/8 in 3 overs, as Zimbabwe won a rain-affected match by 86 runs (D/L method).\n\nAfter the match, one man was arrested for wearing a black armband. During Zimbabwe's next group stage match against India, nearly 200 spectators wore black armbands, to support the protest.\n\nInside Zimbabwe, the reaction was hostile to the players. Zimbabwe's Minister of Information, Jonathan Moyo, called Olonga an \"Uncle Tom\" who had \"a black skin and a white mask\". Zanu PF information secretary Nathan Shamuyarira claimed they were forced into it by the British media, and \"No true Zimbabwean would have joined in,\" but \"Olonga is not a Zimbabwean, he is a Zambian\". Olonga was charged with treason, an offence punishable by death. MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai released a statement in support of the protest. He was charged with treason, although the charge was later dropped. Givemore Makoni, the President of Takashinga Cricket Club where Olonga played said \"It is disgraceful what Henry Olonga and Andy Flower have done. Taking politics on to the playing field is a thing the International Cricket Council and all sports organisations have been trying to avoid,\" and that \"by taking politics on to the field and bringing the game into disrepute Henry appears to have breached Takashinga's code of conduct\". Olonga was immediately suspended and later sacked by Takashinga Cricket Club. Stephen Mandongo, the President of the Zimbabwe Cricket Union also condemned the protest, saying \"What Flower and Olonga did is very wrong. They have jeopardised our reputation when given this once in a lifetime chance to host the World Cup ... It would be wrong if they wore black armbands again.\" They referred the matter to the International Cricket Council, who deemed that they had taken a political action, but refused to charge them with a formal offence. Instead, they released a statement reiterating the apolitical nature of the organisation, and asked the players not to wear black armbands for the rest of the tournament, with the threat of more serious punishment if they continued to wear them.\n\nThe international reaction to the protest was favourable. The Times sports correspondent called it a \"powerful blow for sanity, decency and democracy\", whilst The Daily Telegraph's Donald Trelford praised the players and criticised the ICC and ECB, saying the players \"shine out like diamonds in a pile of mud\". Cricket writer Tim de Lisle praised the pair, saying that \"Together they were responsible for a shining moment in the game's history ... Two strips of black tape, more potent than any logo, breathed life back into the game's battered spirit.\" England captain Nasser Hussain said that Flower and Olonga \"have proved to be great men by what they have done.\" As a result of the protest, Olonga's girlfriend broke up with him, and he received numerous threatening emails and death threats.\n\nZimbabwe won their next match against England on a walkover, and also beat the Netherlands, and had a no-result in their final group match against Pakistan, which allowed them to qualify for the Super 6 stage of the competition. They were eliminated in this stage, however this allowed both players to leave Zimbabwe for South Africa.\n\nOlonga was dropped for 6 matches, with no reason given – some have speculated that he was dropped as a result of the protest, whilst other suggest it was due to poor form. Flower on the other hand was considered \"undroppable\". To comply with the ICC warning not to wear black armbands, during their next group match, Flower and twelfth-man Olonga both wore black wristbands, and in subsequent matches, Flower wore white armbands. Olonga's only subsequent appearance for Zimbabwe was in their match against Kenya.\n\nAfter their final Super Six match, Olonga immediately announced his retirement from international cricket, after 30 Test matches and 50 ODIs. Flower had already previously announced his retirement from international cricket, and had signed for Essex, and South Australia. Olonga, had not planned what to do after the protest, as he \"had in my own naivety thought that I could carry on in Zimbabwe – maybe my career would come to an end but I could still live there.\" In the end, he was kicked off the team bus, and travelled to Johannesburg, where he stayed for a month, before being granted a work permit to play for Lashings Cricket Club in England. He was subsequently granted asylum in the United Kingdom. Neither player has since returned to Zimbabwe.\n\nBoth players were awarded an Honorary Life Membership of the Marylebone Cricket Club, an honour usually only given to players who have retired from first-class cricket. In 2013, the BBC recorded a special radio programme commemorating 10 years of the protest.\n"}
{"id": "54860179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54860179", "title": "Bridge therapy", "text": "Bridge therapy\n\nBridge therapy is therapy intended, in transportation metaphor, to serve as a figurative bridge to another stage of therapy or health, carrying a patient past a challenging period of some kind. There are various types of bridge therapy, such as bridge to transplant, bridge to candidacy, bridge to decision, bridge to recovery, and anticoagulation bridge (such as heparin bridge). Bridge therapy exists in contrast to destination therapy, which is the figurative destination rather than a bridge to something else. \n"}
{"id": "750689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750689", "title": "Bright Futures Scholarship Program", "text": "Bright Futures Scholarship Program\n\nBright Futures is the name of a scholarship program in the state of Florida. It is funded by the Florida Lottery and was first started in 1997.\n\nThe program funds three scholarships, available to Florida residents who attend a Florida high school and an eligible Florida post-secondary institution.\nAward amounts are set by statute each year. In the 2016-17 year, Academic Scholars receive up to $103 per credit hour per semester, Medallion Scholars receive up to $77 per credit hour per semester, and Gold Seal Scholars receive up to $48 per credit hour per semester.\n\nThe Bright Futures Scholarship was meant to emulate neighboring state Georgia's HOPE Scholarship. Originally the Program disbursed just above 42,000 scholarships for about $70 million. At the program's peak in 2008, it provided scholarships to 39% of Florida high school graduates, including 94 percent of incoming freshmen and 70 percent of all undergraduates at the University of Florida. \n\nThe program was solely based on academic merit and not on financial need. At its height in 2008, the program was criticized for subsidizing the education of students from wealthy families using lottery proceeds collected largely from lower-income individuals. UF Chief Financial Officer Matt Fajack criticized the program for keeping state university tuition artificially low, since any tuition raise would mean that the state would have to spend more money to cover scholarships under the program.\n\nThe Florida Legislature enacted cuts to Bright Futures funding in 2011 by increasing the minimum SAT score required to qualify for the program. The changes took full effect for the graduating class of 2014, increasing the minimum score for A students from 1280 to 1290, and increasing the minimum score for B students from 980 to 1170. The cuts disproportionately impacted black and Latino students as well as students from predominantly poor schools. By the 2015-16 school year, the program covered only 20% of Florida high school graduates and paid an average of $2,000 per year.\n\nIn 2014, the United States Department of Education launched an investigation of the Bright Futures program due to allegations of racial bias against black and Latino students, focusing particularly on its effects on students from Miami-Dade County and at Florida International University. The department ultimately found evidence of disparate impacts on minorities but no evidence of discriminatory intent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37783034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37783034", "title": "Bund Deutscher Jugend", "text": "Bund Deutscher Jugend\n\nThe Bund Deutscher Jugend (BDJ, ) was a politically active German association with right-wing and anti-communist leanings founded in 1950. In the beginning of 1953 the BDJ and its paramilitary arm, the Technischer Dienst, were forbidden as extreme right-wing organisations because of \"involvement in a secret organisation\" (guerrilla training).\n\nThe BDJ was founded on 23 June 1950 in Frankfurt/Main. The founder and main theorist and later chairman of the BDJ was Paul Lüth. The CIA-cryptonym for the BDJ was KMPRUDE and for the Technischer Dienst LCPROWL. The project outline in a declassified CIA file states the following objectives:\n\n\nIn April 1951 the \"Technischer Dienst\" (technical service), a secret subsection of the BDJ, was founded on the programmatic basis of the partisan writings by Paul Lüth with the aim in mind, to form an armed resistance movement against \"Bolshevism\". The operation ran under the name LCPROWL BDJ Apparat. As of 1951 the budget for one year was $125.000.\n\nThe group was allegedly founded as part of the CIAs program of creating guerrilla and stay-behind groups in Germany and Western Europe that would fight the Soviets should they occupy Western Europe during a future confrontation. The CIA was training them in covert guerrilla warfare to be part of this future resistance movement. Many members of the BDJ were veterans of the Wehrmacht and Waffen-SS.\n\nA raid of local police units in the premises of the BDJ in 1952 revealed that the U.S. funded the organization with a monthly sum of $50,000 and supplied it with arms, ammunition and explosives. A weapons cache with machine guns, grenades, light artillery guns and explosives were found in the Odenwald near Frankfurt am Main. Seized documents also contained an assassination list naming 40 German political leaders - mainly politicians of the German socialist party, SPD. Among them were Herbert Wehner, the former head of the SPD party, Erich Ollenhauer, the Hessian Minister of the Interior, Heinrich Zinnkann and the Mayor of Hamburg and Bremen. For a case of \"emergency\" scenario, the BDJ had already funneled members in the SPD.\nThe United States Counter Intelligence Corps (CIC) took over the custody of the German BDJ members and refused in the following access by German authorities who intended to raise an indictment due to unlawful possession of weapons and planned murder. CIC agents continued to seize all documents still available and refused to surrender them to the German authorities. As a result of the ongoing investigation U.S. authorities admitted to having financed the BDJ for the training of guerrillas in case of war with the Soviet Union.\n\nThe charter and the official program of the BDJ reveal few details about the actual political motivations of the group. Deliberately any extreme right-wing ideology was kept out. The political guidelines of day-to-day politics were collected in the confidential, 78 pages long, memorandum \"Bürger und Partisan\" (Citizen and Partisan) by Paul Lüth. According to Lüth the world was in a \"defense war against totalitarianism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45437191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45437191", "title": "Campus Conservation Nationals", "text": "Campus Conservation Nationals\n\nCampus Conservation Nationals (CCN) is a national competition in which colleges and universities in North America compete to reduce energy and water consumption over the course of a month. Participating schools aim to educate students and faculty about resource consumption and its effects on the environment. The program is run by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), Lucid Design Group, the National Wildlife Federation, and the Alliance to Save Energy. The competition lasts for three weeks, and each individual school may choose when to hold their competition during CCN's three-month competition season each spring. Campuses can hold individual competitions, which involves campus buildings competing to have the highest reduction (by percent) of electricity and/or water compared to a previously-set baseline. Many campuses also participate in a group competition, competing against other schools in their region. Campus Conservation Nationals 2015 marks the fifth year of the competition. Recent years' competitions resulted in an overall energy savings of over 2 million kWh each year. The first pilot competition was held in 2010, with the program resulting in 500,000 kWh of energy saved. DePauw University was the winner of the 2010 competition\n\nColleges and universities across the United States and Canada sign up to participate in the CCN competition in the fall. The CCN website provides \"How To\" guides and checklists for organizing teams to plan their individual programming and competitions. The schools are responsible for designing and running their own events, with support from Campus Conservation Nationals and Lucid. They choose the campus buildings whose electricity and/or water data they want to collect. This data is monitored by meters in the buildings, collected by or input into Lucid's BuildingOS, then represented visually on Building Dashboard. Lucid Design Group provides its software to give schools a way to visualize and keep track of their resource usage.\n\nEach college or university holds its own three-week competition. Various campus buildings will compete against one another to provide incentive for students to reduce their energy and/or water consumption. The goal is for students to see how changing their behavior can make a difference. The organizing team at each school plans its own set of marketing strategies and competition events to spread awareness. In addition to holding the national competition, CCN also holds a poster competition for the \"most innovative outreach poster\" used in their campaigns. Throughout the competitions, data can be viewed by all students on their school's Building Dashboard page, which shows each campus building's energy consumption across different time scales, the percent reduction in energy consumption so far, and more. At the end of the national competition run, from February to April, the data from every participating school is compared.\n\nIn 2012, 94 colleges and universities in North America participated in the Campus Conservation Nationals program, and 1.7 million kWh of electricity were saved in total. This equals a savings of about $160,000 in energy costs, and it prevented about 2.6 million pounds of COfrom entering the atmosphere. Only six campuses were competing in the national competition. The five schools with the greatest percent of electricity reduction were Bowling Green State University, Hofstra University, South Connecticut State University, University of Kentucky, and Western Technical College.\n\nThe 2013 competition of Campus Conservation Nationals saw 120 participating colleges and universities. 2,115,000 kWh of electricity were saved in total by all of the participants. This is the amount of energy that would be saved if 187 U.S. homes were taken off of the power grid for a year. 1,680,000 gallons of water were saved during the competition as well. The top five schools who reduced the electricity consumption the most were Harvey Mudd College, Northwest Missouri State University, Oregon State University, St. John's University, and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Cal Poly Pomona, Indiana University, Northwestern University, Oberlin College, and Wake Forest University were the top five schools for Greatest Overall Percent Reduction in Water Use.\n\n109 colleges and universities participated in the 2014 College Conservation Nationals competition. Over 2.2 million kWh of electricity were saved in total. That is equal to preventing 3 million pounds of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere. 476,000 gallons of water were also saved in the 2014 competition. The top ten schools for largest campus-wide electricity reduction were Appalachian State University, Bard College, Berea College, Cal State Chico, Dickinson College, Louisiana State University, Loyola University Maryland, Portland State University, Wake Forest University, and Western Carolina University. 2014 saw many repeat schools who were making this event a tradition on their campuses.\n\nBuilding Dashboard is Lucid Design Group's online interface that helps organizations track their building's energy and water consumption. It provides real-time feedback of this data, to help convince inhabitants that their behavior change creates results. The energy usage is measured in kilowatt-hours. The interactive website features graphs that illustrate energy usage for every metered building on a university's campus. The settings can be changed to display energy usage over a certain time period: the month, the week, or the day. If a competition is happening, students can view which campus building has saved the most energy thus far on their school's main Building Dashboard page. The site allows the public to view the statistics in terms of monetary savings, COemissions, and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "25046128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25046128", "title": "Century of humiliation", "text": "Century of humiliation\n\nThe century of humiliation (), also known by permutations such as the hundred years of national humiliation, refers to the period of intervention and imperialism by Western powers and Japan in China between 1839 and 1949.\n\nThe term arose in 1915, in the atmosphere of rising Chinese nationalism opposing the Twenty-One Demands made by the Japanese government and their acceptance by Yuan Shikai, with the Kuomintang and Chinese Communist Party both subsequently popularizing the characterization.\n\nThe beginning of the Century of Humiliation is usually dated to the mid-19th century, on the eve of the First Opium War amidst widespread opium addiction and the political unraveling of Qing China that followed.\n\nMajor events cited as part of the Century of Humiliation include:\n\n\nIn this period, China suffered major internal fragmentation, lost almost all of the wars it fought, and was often forced to give major concessions to the great powers in the subsequent treaties. In many cases, China was forced to pay large amounts of reparations, open up ports for trade, lease or cede territories (such as Outer Manchuria and Outer Northwest China to Russia, Jiaozhou Bay to Germany, Hong Kong to Great Britain, Zhanjiang to France, and Taiwan and the Liaodong Peninsula to Japan) and make various other concessions of sovereignty to foreign \"spheres of influence\", following military defeats.\n\nWhen or whether the Century has ended has been open to different interpretations. Both Chiang Kai-shek and Mao Zedong declared the end of the Century of Humiliation in the aftermath of World War II, with Chiang promoting his wartime resistance to Japanese rule and China's place among the Big Four in the victorious Allies in 1945, while Mao declared it with the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949.\n\nExtraterritorial jurisdiction was abandoned by the United Kingdom and the United States in 1943. Chiang Kai-shek forced the French to hand over all their concessions back to China control after World War II.\n\nThe end of the Century was similarly declared in the repulsion of UN forces in the Korean War, the 1997 reunification with Hong Kong, the 1999 reunification with Macau, and even the hosting of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.\n\nThe usage of the Century of Humiliation in the Chinese Communist Party's historiography and modern Chinese nationalism, with its focus on the \"sovereignty and integrity of [Chinese] territory\", has been invoked in incidents like the US bombing of the Chinese Belgrade embassy, the Hainan Island incident, and protests for Tibetan independence along the 2008 Beijing Olympics torch relay. Some analysts have pointed to its use in deflecting foreign criticism of human rights abuses in China and domestic attention from issues of corruption, while bolstering its territorial claims and general economic and political rise.\n\nJane E. Elliott criticized the allegation that China refused to modernize or was unable to defeat Western armies as simplistic, noting that China embarked on a massive military modernization in the late 1800s after several defeats, buying weapons from Western countries and manufacturing their own at arsenals, such as the Hanyang Arsenal during the Boxer Rebellion. In addition, Elliott questioned the claim that while Chinese society was traumatized by the Western victories, as many Chinese peasants (90% of the population at that time) living outside the concessions continued about their daily lives, uninterrupted and without any feeling of \"humiliation\".\n\nHistorians have judged the Qing dynasty's vulnerability and weakness to foreign imperialism in the 19th century to be based mainly on its maritime naval weakness while it achieved military success against westerners on land, the historian Edward L. Dreyer said that \"China’s nineteenth-century humiliations were strongly related to her weakness and failure at sea. At the start of the First Opium War, China had no unified navy and not a sense of how vulnerable she was to attack from the sea. British navy forces sailed and steamed wherever they wanted to go. In the Arrow War (1856-60), the Chinese had no way to prevent the Anglo-French navy expedition of 1860 from sailing into the Gulf of Zhili and landing as near as possible to Beijing. Meanwhile, new but not exactly modern Chinese armies suppressed the midcentury rebellions, bluffed Russia into a peaceful settlement of disputed frontiers in Central Asia, and defeated the French forces on land in the Sino-French War (1884-85). But the defeat at sea, and the resulting threat to steamship traffic to Taiwan, forced China to conclude peace on unfavorable terms.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55818264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55818264", "title": "Ceremony of the Keys (Edinburgh)", "text": "Ceremony of the Keys (Edinburgh)\n\nThe Ceremony of the Keys is held in Holyrood Palace, Edinburgh, at the start of the British monarch's week-long residence there in July. Soon after the monarch's arrival, in the forecourt of the Palace, the Queen or King is symbolically offered the keys to the city of Edinburgh by the Lord Provost. The monarch returns the keys, saying:\nA Ceremony of the Keys is also held at the start of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland when the Lord High Commissioner, as the Monarch's representative, receives the keys from the Lord Provost.\n\n"}
{"id": "20760512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20760512", "title": "Communities That Care", "text": "Communities That Care\n\nCommunities That Care (CTC) is a program of the \"Center for Substance Abuse Prevention\" (CSAP) in the office of the United States Government's \"Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration\" (SAMHSA). CTC is a coalition-based prevention operating system that uses a public health approach to prevent youth problem behaviors such as violence, delinquency, school drop out and substance abuse. Using strategic consultation, training, and research-based tools, CTC is designed to help community stakeholders and decision makers understand and apply information about risk and protective factors, and programs that are proven to make a difference in promoting healthy youth development, in order to most effectively address the specific issues facing their community's youth.\nDeveloped by Drs. \"J. David Hawkins\" and \"Richard Catalano\" at the University of Washington's \"Social Development Research Group\" (SDRG), CTC's principal strategy, the Social Development Strategy (right), focuses on strengthening protective factors that can buffer young people from problem behaviors and promote positive youth development.\n\nCTC is grounded in rigorous research from social work, public health, psychology, education, medicine, criminology, and organizational development. It engages all community members who have a stake in healthy futures for young people and sets priorities for action based on community challenges and strengths. Clear, measurable outcomes are tracked over time to show progress and ensure accountability.\n\nThe field of public health has developed a systematic methodology for understanding and effectively preventing health problems. Through rigorous research, the etiology of diseases has been documented, and the factors contributing to those diseases have been identified. Once these contributing factors are understood, careful study and application of approaches to amend those factors have demonstrated reductions in the disease burden. For example, heart disease has been one of the primary causes of death among American adults. Research shows, however, that adequate exercise, a healthy diet, and avoidance of smoking can help to prevent heart disease. These behaviors are considered protective factors, just as smoking, high blood pressure, and a family history of heart disease are considered risk factors for poor heart health.\n\nSince the late 1970s, researchers in a variety of disciplines (for example, criminology, sociology, social work, psychology, community psychology, education) have been applying this public health approach to the study of the healthy development of young people. This work has created a field called prevention science, which identifies the factors that contribute to the healthy development of children and youth (protective factors) and the factors that impede that development (risk factors).\n\n\" Protective Factors and the Social Development Model. \"\nThe prevention of health and behavior problems in young people requires, at its foundation, the promotion of the factors required for positive development. Research shows that five basic factors promote positive social development: opportunities for developmentally appropriate involvement, skills, recognition for effort, improvement and achievement, strong social bonds, and clear, consistent standards for behavior. All children need opportunities to be actively involved with positive adults and peers, the skills to participate and succeed in social, school, and civic settings, and recognition for their efforts, improvements, and accomplishments. When young people are provided with opportunities, skills, and recognition, they develop strong social bonds, that is connections with and commitment to the families, schools, and communities that provided them. When families, schools, and communities communicate to young people clear standards for behavior, those who feel bonded, emotionally connected, invested in the group, will follow those standards that promote health and success. These five factors are protective factors that promote positive development in young people (Hawkins & Weis, 1985), and form the basis for the Social Development Model.\n\" Risk Factors. \" Research has also identified risk factors that can interrupt the process of positive social development. High quality longitudinal studies have identified risk factors in neighborhoods and communities, families, schools, and peer groups, as well as in individuals themselves. These factors increase the probability of delinquency, violence, substance abuse, teen pregnancy, dropping out of school, and other behavior problems in young people. The risk factors shown in the risk factor chart (right) have been found in at least two high-quality studies to predict later health and behavior problems in young people. Many of these risk factors predict multiple problems. For example, the risk factor of “Poor Family Management” has been shown to predict five youth problem behaviors: substance abuse, delinquency, teen pregnancy, school drop-out, and violence. Providing effective parent training programs in a community, therefore, could potentially impact all five of these undesirable outcomes.\n\nThe identification of risk and protective factors provides the foundation for advances in preventing adolescent health and behavior problems. Prevention scientists have rigorously tested programs and policies that address these risk and protective factors in studies funded largely by the National Institutes of Health, and an increasing number and range of effective prevention approaches have now been identified. By 2004, 56 tested and effective programs were available in the United States that have been demonstrated to reduce involvement in problem behaviors and/or increase positive outcomes for youth. These 56 effective programs and policies are summarized in CTC's Prevention Strategies Guide at https://www.communitiesthatcare.net/Prevention%20Strategies%20Guide/introduction.pdf. Sixteen of these programs have been tested at least twice with replicated findings and have been designated as \"Blueprint model programs\", which, if rigorously followed, will significantly reduce youth violence and substance abuse. Programs range from prenatal (for example, Olds, 1997) and early childhood interventions (for example, Reid et al., 2001), to community policies related to alcohol (e.g. Holder et al., 2000), to school-based curricula that teach youth social and emotional skills that will help them navigate life (e.g. Botvin at al, 2003, Eisen at al., 2002, and Grossman et al., 1997).\n\nPrevention scientists understand that the final task arising from these research findings is the application of proven prevention programs, policies and strategies in the real world in order to enhance youth development on the ground in communities. In collaboration with communities and state and federal governments, researchers are studying the impact that prevention science can have on the effectiveness of prevention efforts within those systems. [link to History section of this article, to be added]\n\nCommunities That Care guides the community's prevention efforts through a five-phase process which includes: 1) Get Started—assessing community readiness to undertake collaborative prevention efforts; 2) Get Organized—getting a commitment to the CTC process from community leaders and forming a diverse and representative prevention coalition; 3) Develop a Profile—using epidemiologic data to assess prevention needs; 4) Create a Plan—choosing tested and effective prevention policies, practices, and programs based on assessment data; and 5) Implement and Evaluate—implementing the new strategies with fidelity, in a manner congruent with the programs' theory, content, and methods of delivery, and evaluating progress over time.\n\nCTC activities are planned and carried out by the CTC Community Board, a prevention coalition of community stakeholders who work together to promote positive youth outcomes. Board members participate in a series of six CTC training workshops in which they build their coalition and learn the skills needed to install the CTC system.\n\nWorking through the five phases of CTC provides the opportunity to increase communication, collaboration, and ownership among community members and service providers invested in healthy youth development.\n\nPhase One: Getting Started. With technical assistance provided by a CTC trainer, a community catalyst and small group of advisors assess community readiness to undertake collaborative prevention efforts, and identify the stakeholders who need to be involved. Key activities in this phase include recruiting key leaders to serve as champions of the effort, obtaining school district support to conduct a youth survey to provide epidemiological data on risk, protection, and youth behaviors, and hiring a coordinator to manage CTC activities.\n\nPhase Two: Organizing, Introducing, Involving. In Phase Two a diverse and representative prevention coalition is formed. Specific tasks for this phase include involving and educating stakeholders who were identified in Phase One; developing a vision for the future of the community's children, and putting an organizational structure in place to help the community move toward the vision. The first two CTC trainings are implemented in this phase: the Key Leader Orientation (KLO) and the Community Board Orientation (CBO). These trainings introduce prevention science to community stakeholders, and help community members create an appropriate structure for the Community Board.\n\nPhase Three: Developing a Community Profile. This is the data collection phase, including a comprehensive community assessment of adolescent behaviors and current prevention services. This phase usually requires administration of the CTC Youth Survey . Members of the Risk and Protective Factor Assessment Work Group participate in the Community Assessment Training, in which they learn about key data sources for risk and protective factors (such as the student survey) and how to analyze the data. In communities already using the CTC Youth Survey, this training is tailored to help the work group interpret survey results and identify elevated risk factors, depressed protective factors, and problem behaviors prevalent among youth in the community. From this analysis, the work group recommends priority risk and protective factors for focused attention by the CTC Board.\n\nThe second component of the community profile is an assessment of current community programs, policies, and resources that address the prioritized risk and protective factors. The Resource Assessment workgroup is trained in assessment procedures during the Community Resource Assessment Training. The goals of the resource assessment are to identify existing evidence-based programs that address the priority factors, discern the gaps in existing program delivery, and recommend where new programs or policies are needed.\n\nPhase Four: Creating a Community Action Plan. During the fourth phase of CTC, the results of the assessment process are reviewed by the full Community Board, and a community action plan is developed. The Community Plan Training (CPT) is provided to Community Boards during this phase. During this training, Board members select prevention policies and programs that target their prioritized risk factors to fill gaps in current prevention services. The \"CTC Prevention Strategies Guide\" is a tool used during this process. It describes prevention programs that have been demonstrated in at least one high quality research trial to be effective in changing risk, protection, and problem behaviors. Once program choices are made, CPT participants are trained to write an action plan that sets clear, measurable goals regarding anticipated outcomes, and also develop an evaluation plan.\n\nPhase Five: Implementing and Evaluating the Community Action Plan. In this phase, the CTC Board implements selected strategies, and evaluates progress over time. Board members and staff for the selected preventive programs attend the final CTC training workshop, the Community Plan Implementation Training (CPIT), which emphasizes the importance of implementing prevention programs with fidelity; that is, ensuring that the programs' content, dosage, and manner of delivery adhere to the protocols identified by program developers. Participants also learn methods for tracking implementation progress, assessing desired changes in participants, and using this information to adjust implementation as needed to fulfill program objectives.\n\nCTC is intended as an ongoing process. The process of monitoring implementation progress and community level changes in risk, protection and youth outcomes is repeated every two years. Based on a review of these data, CTC boards revise their action plans as needed.\n\nThe CTC system is collaborative, proactive, science-based, and data driven, and provides structure, tools, training and technical assistance for coalitions.\n\nCollaborative. CTC uses a coalition approach to address issues at the community level. The coalition will include a diverse group of stakeholders concerned with youth development (youth-serving agency staff, school representatives, health professionals, city leaders, law enforcement, United Way, other funding entities, neighborhood groups, business people, parents, media representatives, faith community members, youth, etc.) in applying prevention science principles to decisions affecting the community's youth. By providing a setting and common language for all stakeholders to discuss prevention, the model ensures that all voices in the community are heard and respected.\n\nProactive. Rather than reacting to problems once they have already occurred, CTC focuses on strengthening protections and decreasing risks in order to promote healthy youth development and decrease the likelihood of problem behaviors.\n\nScience based. CTC is grounded in rigorous research from a variety of disciplines, including public health, sociology, psychology, criminology, and community psychology. This research has identified the \"predictors\" of youth problem behaviors, developed epidemiologic \"assessment tools\" for measuring those predictors in a community, and tested \"programs that work\" in addressing those predictors.\n\nData driven. The CTC system ensures local control of decisions based on local data and needs assessments, and flexibility to implement actions specific to the priorities identified by community members. The CTC system provides tools for measuring levels of risk and protective factors, selecting priority factors on which to focus a strategic plan, selecting appropriate prevention responses, and tracking progress toward desired changes in priority risk factors.\n\na. The \"CTC Youth Survey\" is the primary tool for needs assessment and monitoring. This is a confidential, schoolwide survey for students appropriate for Grades 6-12, that measures a majority of the risk and protective factors identified to predict youth problem behaviors. Coalition members use survey results from students in their community as well as community archival data to prioritize risk and protective factors for attention. The survey is re-administered every 2 years in order to monitor progress over time.\n\nb. \"Effective program selection\" is another element of the data-driven process. Coalition members review policies and programs that have been tested and proven effective in addressing their priority factors. They consider the suitability of each program to the community's circumstances, and select prevention responses most likely to be successful in that environment. Information on program effectiveness is summarized in menus of effective programs, for example CTC's Prevention Strategies Guide and The Blueprint for Violence Prevention list of effective programs.\n\nc. \"Monitoring of program implementation\" is the third element of the data-driven process. Throughout the implementation cycle of each prevention program or strategy, coalitions collect data to ensure that the program is delivered with fidelity to the original program design. This monitoring information is important, because without close replication, the effectiveness of these programs can be compromised (see, for example, Elliot & Mihalic, 2004). Monitoring implementation is also a management tool for identifying challenges that can be addressed before they lead to program failure.\n\nStructure and tools. The CTC structure includes six training workshops and additional tools that help walk community members through each stage of the process. Training manuals are composed of modules that provide comprehensive information, exercises, and guidelines for each stage of the process. The \"Milestones and Benchmarks\" checklist functions as a roadmap for the entire effort. Milestones are major tasks that must be accomplished in each phase of CTC, and benchmarks provide essential steps toward achieving each of these major tasks. Booklets are available to help local leaders evaluate and address community readiness issues before initiating the process, and to explain the system to key leaders and potential board members.\n\nTraining and technical assistance. Successful CTC efforts include high-quality training and technical assistance from experienced and certified facilitators. Feinberg et al. (2004), Gomez et al. (2005) and Greenberg et al. (2005) studied the functioning and sustainability of CTC coalitions in Pennsylvania, and found three factors strongly related to effective coalition function: community organizational and motivational readiness, initial training, and ongoing technical assistance (TA). The Pennsylvania study also documented that the sustainability of the effort was predicted by the prevention knowledge of coalition members, the quality of coalition functioning, and their fidelity to the CTC model.\n\nThe Center for Substance Abuse Prevention provides all CTC materials free of charge at www.communitiesthatcare.net . Materials include: \n\nA cornerstone of effective community-level prevention involves the implementation of appropriate responses to the priority needs identified during the assessment phase of the process. The CTC system guides community groups to choose and implement appropriate tested and effective programs, policies, and practices in families, schools, and communities (see the CTC Prevention Strategies Guide and the Blueprints for Violence Prevention website). These programs have shown significant effects on minimizing youths' risky behaviors and enhancing positive choices.\n\nThe CYDS evaluated community efforts to faithfully implement (1) the core principles of the CTC prevention system, and (2) tested and effective prevention programs with respect to content and delivery specifications. The study found that CTC communities achieved high implementation fidelity at the system and program levels when supported by training and technical assistance in CTC. Control communities did not achieve these things.\nAt the start of the CYDS, CTC and control communities did not differ in their use of a science-based approach to prevention. By the third year of the intervention, key leaders in CTC communities reported a higher stage of adoption of science-based prevention, relative to control communities. They also were willing to provide greater funding for prevention. Differences were sustained one year after the implementation phase of the trial ended. At this point, key leaders in CTC communities also reported significantly stronger community norms against adolescent drug use.\nThe CTC Milestones and Benchmarks Survey was used to track progress in the implementation of core components of the CTC prevention system. In each year of the intervention, CTC communities enacted an average of 90% of the key features of the CTC prevention system, including developing a community board, prioritizing risk and protective factors, selecting tested and effective preventive interventions from the Communities That Care Prevention Strategies Guide, implementing selected implementation programs with fidelity, and periodically assessing risk and protective factors and child and adolescent well-being through surveys of students. One year after the implementation phase of the trial had ended, eleven of 12 CTC coalitions continued to operate in CTC communities. These coalitions continued to implement key CTC milestones and benchmarks to a significantly greater degree than coalitions in control communities, even without ongoing study-provided support. Control communities did not make this progress over time in completing CTC milestones and benchmarks, implementing scientifically proven prevention programs, and monitoring program impacts. \nOver the course of the trial, the 12 CTC communities demonstrated faithful implementation of 17 different school-based, after-school, and parenting interventions selected from a menu of 39 possible tested and effective programs for 5th through 9th grade students contained in the Communities That Care Prevention Strategies Guide. On average, CTC communities implemented 2.75 tested and effective prevention programs per year (range: 1-5). High rates of fidelity were achieved consistently over time with respect to adherence to program objectives and core components (average = 91-94% per year) and dosage (number, length, and frequency of intervention sessions; average = 93-95% per year). Faithful implementation continued two years after study support ended. CTC coalitions still offered significantly more tested and effective intervention programs, implemented them with high quality, monitored implementation to a significantly greater degree, and reached significantly more children and parents, compared to control coalitions.\n\nThe Prevention Research Center at Pennsylvania State University has been studying the process and impact of the statewide CTC system since its inception in the early 1990s. Summaries of their findings will be posted here soon.\n\n\nThe Community Youth Development Study (CYDS) is the first controlled experimental trial of the Communities That Care system. Twenty-four communities in 7 states agreed to participate in the study. These communities consisted of 12 matched pairs which had equivalent demographics and equivalent levels of youth risks and problem behaviors at the start of the study. Communities were randomly assigned to intervention or control conditions. The intervention communities received funding to hire a full-time community coordinator, who formed a community coalition that subsequently participated in the full cycle of CTC trainings. These communities then created community action plans, and were awarded up to $75,000 per year for the next four years to implement the tested, effective prevention strategies selected as part of the action planning process. Control communities continued prevention business as usual.\n\nHawkins et al. 2008, reported finding no significant differences between CTC and control communities in average levels of community-targeted risks among students in fifth grade, prior to the start of the CTC programs. By the third year of the intervention, key leaders in CTC communities reported a higher stage of adoption of science-based prevention, relative to control communities, . They also were willing to provide greater funding for prevention. Differences were sustained one year after the implementation phase of the trial ended. At this point, key leaders in CTC communities also reported significantly stronger community norms against adolescent drug use. The longitudinal panel youth in CTC and control communities reported similar levels of targeted risk in Grade 5, when the intervention began, but targeted risk exposure grew more slowly for youth in CTC communities between Grade 5 and Grade 10. Significantly lower levels of targeted risk were first reported by CTC panel youth 1.67 years into the intervention, in Grade 7, and have continued to be reported by CTC panel youth through Grade 10.\n\nPanel youth from CTC and control communities also reported similar levels of delinquency, alcohol use, and cigarette smoking at Grade 5 baseline. However, between Grades 5 and 10, CTC had significant effects on the initiation of these behaviors by youth. Significant differences in the initiation of delinquency were first observed in the spring of Grade 7. Panel youth from CTC communities were 25% less likely than panel youth from control communities to initiate delinquent behavior, and they remained so in Grade 8. Significantly lower delinquency initiation rates were sustained through Grade 10, when panel youth from CTC communities were 17% less likely to initiate delinquency than panel youth from control communities.\n\nPreventive effects on alcohol use and cigarette use were first observed in the spring of Grade 8, 2.67 years after intervention programs were implemented. Grade 8 youth from CTC communities were 32% less likely to initiate alcohol use, and 33% less likely to initiate cigarette smoking than Grade 8 youth from control communities (Hawkins et al., 2009). Preventive effects were again sustained through Grade 10 when CTC panel youth were 29% less likely to initiate alcohol use and 28% less likely to initiate cigarette smoking than panel youth from control communities.\n\nDifferences in the initiation of delinquency, alcohol use, and cigarette smoking from Grade 5 through Grade 10 led to cumulatively lower rates of initiation over time: 62% of 10th-grade youth in the panel from CTC communities had engaged in delinquent behavior compared with 70% of 10th-grade youth in the panel from control communities; 67% vs. 75% had initiated alcohol use; and 44% vs. 52% had smoked cigarettes. (insert illustration here).\n\nCTC also significantly reduced the prevalence of youth problem behaviors in Grade 8 and Grade 10. In Grade 8, the prevalence of alcohol use in the past month, binge drinking (five or more drinks in a row) in the past two weeks, and the variety of delinquent behaviors committed in the past year were all significantly lower in CTC panel youth compared to control community panel youth. The CYDS also found significant effects of CTC in reducing the prevalence of cigarette use in the past month and delinquent behavior and violence in the past year in the spring of Grade 10.\n\"Child Trends Research Brief:\" An overview of the Communities That Care system and up to date research information is available from Child Trends with an in depth research brief that can be found here. Other research is also available through the Child Trends Website.\n\n\"Conclusions:\" CTC's theory of change hypothesizes that it takes from 2 to 5 years to observe community-level effects on risk factors, and 5 or more years to observe effects on adolescent delinquency or substance use [insert CTC timeline graphic]. These early findings from the first randomized community trial of CTC are promising, suggesting that CTC is slowing the usual developmental increase in adolescents' risk exposure. Longer follow-up measurements are needed to determine if CTC can significantly reduce community levels of delinquency and drug use as hypothesized. The Community Youth Development Study will collect additional data from these students in 2007 and 2008. These data will allow tests of CTC's effects on community rates of delinquency and substance use initiation among young people through the spring of grade 9, almost 5 years after CTC was introduced in the intervention communities and approximately years after communities began implementing tested and effective prevention programs chosen through the CTC system.\n\n"}
{"id": "47265100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47265100", "title": "Corruption in Myanmar", "text": "Corruption in Myanmar\n\nCorruption in Myanmar is an extremely serious problem. Owing to failures in regulation and enforcement, corruption flourishes in every sector of government and business. Many foreign businesspeople consider corruption “a serious barrier to investment and trade in Myanmar.” A U.N. survey in May 2014 concluded that corruption is the greatest hindrance for business in Myanmar.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 130th place out of 180 countries.\n\nIn the Myanmar Business Survey 2014, corruption was the most frequently identified obstacle to business, especially with respect to obtaining firm registration, business licenses and permits from government authorities.\n\nIt is common in Myanmar to charge illicit payments for government services, to bribe tax collectors to secure a lower tax payment, and to bribe customs officials to avoid paying customs duties.\n\nIn 2007 the then Burmese government revoked several subsidies for various fuel industries, causing prices to soar throughout the nation. This sparked widespread protests due to the public's dissatisfaction with the military government. It was noted that the average citizen was displeased with the immense levels of kleptocracy in the nation, allowing members of the military dictatorship to live in a \"state within a state\" with accumulated wealth far beyond that of the people. The government reacted harshly to the protests through violence and arbitrary detentions. While the official death count tallied thirteen killed, it is widely surmised that the true number far exceeded this figure. The government had even taken steps to censor internet access within the country, though to no avail.\nAlthough the demonstrations were dispersed and suppressed by the military junta, the public would later vote a new government in and wrested power from Than Shwe by 2011. Nonetheless, elements of the military government retained power.\nMyanmar spent five decades under military rule. This period ended in 2011, when a semi-civilian government took power and sought to regenerate the economy and draw foreign investment. Among its objectives was the reduction of endemic corruption. As of May 2014, however, those reforms were viewed as having had a minimal effect on corruption.\n\nEvery leading official in the former military regime is said to have “committed thousands of offenses related to corruption.” Most high-level officials in the civil service were related to military officials.\n\nSince the end of military rule, Myanmar has been implementing economic reforms and developing a free market, but according to one source “its nascent market economy remains bound by myriads of regulations,” which make possible rampant corruption that “hinders the functioning of the price mechanism, upon which the proper functioning of the market economy is based.” Kim Ninh of the Asia Foundation said in May 2015 that despite efforts to reduce corruption after military rule, the country's business environment remained essentially the same, with few new companies emerging since 2011.\n\nAn October 2015 article in \"Wired\" stated that notwithstanding attempts by the US and other Western countries to promote transparency, the majority of Myanmar's economy remains in control of a corrupt elite. During the privatization process, according to a report by the U4 Anti-Corruption Resource Centre that was updated in October 2014, “numerous state assets were sold to the military, family members, and associates of senior government officials at fire sale prices.”\n\nAccording to several reports, moreover, the military influenced the results of the 2010 and 2012 elections by means of fraud, restrictions on political participation, and prohibition of international monitoring.\n\nSome reasons for the high levels of corruption in Myanmar include multiple exchange rates, which enable officials to demand bribes for providing favorable rates; low civil-service pay rates; and a tradition of nepotism. “As there are no competitive selection processes to enter the public sector,” notes one report, “personal connections and bribery are maybe more important than qualifications. For instance, it is common practice to select ministers and high-level civil servants from the military ranks rather than based on expertise.”\n\nIt has been observed that post-2011 Myanmar has an expanding informal economy, and that such economies are notoriously vulnerable to corruption.\n\nPetty corruption, meaning the extortion of small bribes or “gifts” in connection with everyday services, is “endemic to the everyday life of Myanmar citizens. It is particularly prevalent when citizens deal with the bureaucracy of the country and engage with low- to mid-level public officials.” It is common “in application processes for permits or documents, where bribes or gift-giving end up becoming unavoidable elements of the process, perhaps even becoming culturally engrained[,] with bribery rather being seen as gift-giving or a kind gesture.” Since gifts up to 300,000 Kyat (USD 300) are not legally regarded as corruption, there are no penalties for this kind of activity, even though it “represents a huge cost for the government, undermines trust in state institutions, and violates the principle of equal treatment of citizens.”\n\n“The problem of corruption in Myanmar is particularly severe in the area of business activity,” states one source. A firm wishing a construction permit must go through an application process involving (on average) 16 procedures, a 159-day wait, and a cost of about 567% of income per capita. A firm wishing to get electricity must undergo 5 procedures, wait 91 days, and spend over 3000% of income per capita.\n\nIn the Myanmar Business Survey 2014, corruption was the most frequently named obstacle to doing business in the country. Myanmar was also near the bottom of Doing Business 2014's Ease of Doing Business ranking.\n\nAccording to the Investment Climate Statement 2014, “investors may experience corruption when seeking investment permits or when leasing land in Myanmar.” The Enterprise Surveys 2014 reported that 38.9% of businesspeople were “expected to give gifts to get an operating licence,” while 55.8% were expected “to give a gift to get an electrical connection,” and 30.1% were “expected to give gifts to secure a water connection.” Persons applying for import and export licences are also likely to be charged illegal fees.\n\nWithout notice or external review, Myanmar's government routinely promulgates new regulations and laws affecting foreign investors.\n\nDaniel Barrins of the Herbert Smith Freehills law firm, a partner of Australia-based Asialink, has said that corruption is denying Myanmar’s citizens the benefits of foreign investment. Problems with land ownership, intellectual-property rights, and the rule of law all create difficulties for potential foreign investors, according to Barrins.\n\nUnder the military government which ruled Myanmar until 2011, land was nationalized. According to an October 2015 report in the \"Wall Street Journal\", land in Myanmar remains largely under the control of the military and their allies. In addition, allegations of forced evictions are still common across Myanmar.\n\nThe jade trade accounts for 48% of Myanmar’s official GDP. An October 2015 report by \"Global Witness\" noted that Myanmar's jade industry is exploited by the nation's elites; including military leaders, drug traffickers, and business leaders. This was the finding of a year-long investigation entitled “Jade: Myanmar's 'Big State Secret,'” which identified that several leading members of the nation's government and economy had siphoned $31 billion USD worth of jade in 2014, a figure nearly half of Myanmar's economy.\n\n\"Global Witness\" estimated that illegal networks in Myanmar had stolen a total $122.8 billion USD worth of jade over the previous decade, and claimed that Myanmar's jade industry is possibly the greatest natural resource racket in recent history. In addition, the nearly one hundred active jade mining deposits are located in areas controlled by about 10 to 15 military-connected businessmen, and a result the people living in those areas remain in poverty while a few businessmen profit greatly.\n\nMyanmar law requires foreign oil and gas exploration firms operating in the country to be partnered with domestic firms. These arrangements have been criticized for their lack of transparency and accountability.\n\nAs of 2006, illegal logging accounted for at least half of the logging in the country. The smuggling of timber across the Chinese border is a major activity.\n\nTaxes are collected irregularly. Over one third of respondents to a survey said they were expected to give gifts in meetings with tax officials. A medium-sized company doing business in Myanmar must make 31 separate tax payments annually. On average, this takes 155 hours' work, and involves a tax payment amounting to 48.9% of annual profits.\n\nIn April 2014, a new Union Taxation Law came into effect. It is designed to help eliminate corruption in tax collection.\n\nPolitical corruption exists at higher levels of government, and comes into play especially “when large infrastructural works or other 'mega-projects' are being negotiated or implemented.” Companies pay bribes “to avoid trouble or delays,” and often “establish illicit networks of patronage which can be exploited in future deals.” Companies that establish such networks “are often given monopoly control over the markets or sectors they win by 'bidding,'” and this monopoly control stifles competition and growth.\n\nIn the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014, business executives rated the incidence of corrupt diversion of public funds to companies, individuals, or groups at 2.3 on a 7-point scale (1 being “very common” and 7 “never occurs”). They rated the favoritism of government officials towards well-connected companies and individuals, as reflected in policies and contracts, a score of 2.2 on a 7-point scale (1 meaning “always show favouritism” and 7 “never show favouritism”).\n\nGovernment ministries often fail to report their own expenditures on projects.\n\nMyanmar's import and export regulations are not transparent. According to the Global Enabling Trade 2014, corruption at the border and burdensome procedures are among the major challenges to importation of goods. Business executives gave the efficiency and transparency of border administration in Myanmar a score of 2.2 on a 7-point scale (1 being “non-transparent” and 7 “transparent”). Myanmar ranks 128th out of 138 countries in this regard.\n\nBusinesses must bribe customs officials in order to avoid high import and export taxes. 53.5% of businesses surveyed in 2014 said that they expected to give “gifts” to obtain import licences.\n\nOn average, exporting a container of goods from Myanmar involves 9 documents, takes 25 days, and costs USD 670. On average, importing a container of goods into Myanmar involves 9 documents, takes 27 days, and costs USD 660.\n\nBusiness executives rate the protection of property rights and financial assets at 2.5 on a 7-point scale (1 being “very weak” and 7 “very strong”). Registering property involves an average of 6 procedures, a 113-day wait, and a cost amounting to 7.2% of the property's value.\n\nOn the World Economic Forum's 2013–14 Global Competitiveness Report, business executives scored the reliability of police services to enforce law and order at 3.0 on a 7-point scale (1 being “cannot be relied upon at all” and 7 being “can always be relied upon”).\n\nPolice officers “reportedly often ask victims of crimes to pay substantial amounts to ensure police investigate crimes; in addition, police routinely extort money from civilians.” Police are said to be involved in human trafficking, accepting bribes from drug lords, and to have extorted local businessmen. When a curfew was imposed following riots that took place in Mandalay in 2004, police extorted bribes from people who wanted to break the curfew.\n\nOne reason for police corruption is that police officers were expected for many years to pay for their own investigations, without any reimbursement or compensation. This policy not only encouraged corruption but also discouraged serious investigation of crimes.\n\nSecurity forces “generally act with impunity in Myanmar.” The Human Rights Report 2013 noted that a police escort for a UN rapporteur's convoy “stood by” while the convoy was attacked.\n\nThe low quality of Myanmar’s institutions leads to corruption in health care and education.\n\nIt is common for international and domestic NGOs to use money intended to help the public to be spent on expensive offices, residences, or other inappropriate expenses.\n\nThe judiciary is corrupt and subject to government and military influence. Judiciary officials in Myanmar accept bribes for various services, such as providing access to detainees and rendering a favorable verdict. Judiciary corruption “represents a major challenge to businesspeople looking to do business in Myanmar.” In disputes with foreign firms, local businesses can use bribes to secure favorable judgments. On the World Economic Forum's 2013–14 Global Competitiveness Report, business executives rate the independence of the judiciary at 2.8 on a 7-point scale (1 being “heavily influenced” and 7 “entirely independent”).\n\nJudicial decisions about land and buildings are often affected by government influence, personal relationships, and bribery. It can take years to enforce a contract in the Myanmar courts.\n\nThere are many lobbying groups in Myanmar, but they are unregulated, and “regularly resort to bribes and concessions to secure favor,” which is “abetted by the lack of transparency and accountability in Myanmar.”\n\nMyanmar is one of the worlds four major producers of opium and heroin. The government has expanded counter-narcotic efforts, but is “reluctant to investigate, arrest, and prosecute high level international traffickers,” according to the CIA.\n\nWhile Myanmar was still under military control, its Central Bank implemented controls in accordance with the IMF’s Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) guidelines. As a result, Myanmar was removed from the international Financial Action Task Force’s list of “Non-cooperative Countries and Territories” in October 2006.\n\nPresident Thein Sein has introduced a number of policies intended to reduce corruption in business. A key theme of his inaugural speech on 30 March 2011, was fighting government corruption. He said that “democracy will [be] promoted only hand in hand with good governance. That is why our government responsible for Myanmar’s democratic transition will try hard to shape good administrative machinery.…We will fight corruption in cooperation with the people as it harms the image of not only the offenders, but also the nation and the people.” Thein Sein has reportedly made “significant efforts to minimise corruption in the extractive industries” in hopes of attracting foreign investment.\n\nIn August 2012, an anti-bribery bill was approved. In August 2013, an Anti-Corruption Law was passed.\n\nIn April 2013, several senior government officials charged with corruption were compelled to retire or to leave departments working on investment.\n\nThe Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business (MCRB) was founded in 2013. Its seeks to promote “more responsible business practices in Myanmar.” An MCRB initiative called Transparency in Myanmar Enterprise (TiME) “publishes information about anti-corruption, organizational transparency, and concern for human rights, health, and the environment among the largest businesses in Myanmar. Using criteria laid out by Transparency International the project has produced rankings of companies according to the above criteria by analyzing information they post online.”\n\nAnti-corruption laws “were further amended in 2014 to allow for the parliament to establish a committee to investigate allegations of corruption among government officials.” The Anti-Corruption Commission was established in February 2014. It focuses mainly on bribery, which can be punished by fines and up to fifteen years in prison. By December 2014, it had received almost 600 written complaints, but had addressed only three, saying that it could not act without documented evidence. MP U Ye Tun stated that the commission did not have the authority to take action effectively. An expert in governance and anti-corruption, stated in December 2014 that the commission would be unlikely to target the government or its ministries, which is where the bulk of corruption in Myanmar takes place.\n\nA February 2014 report said that the Myanmar Police Force (MPF) had improved its ability to identify and acknowledge corruption. In 2013 the MPF arrested two senior police officers for involvement in drug smuggling.\n\nIn July 2014, Myanmar became an Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) candidate country. Myanmar was thereby agreeing to increase transparency in its extractive industries, notably the logging industry.\n\nThe Money Laundering Eradication Law (2015) provides for the recovery of funds tied to illicit or criminal activities. The Anti-Money Laundering Rules, the establishment of a special police unit for financial crimes, and the passage of Rules Combating the Financing of Terrorism also aid the struggle against corruption. The Financial Institutions of Myanmar Law and the Foreign Exchange Management Law both criminalize fraud and other crimes committed in financial institutions. Myanmar’s Competition Law allows for the prosecution of anti-competitive business activities. Prosecution under these laws, however, is relatively rare, owing largely to a lack of governmental resources.\n\nIn October 2015, Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize winner and opposition leader, said in a speech that she had looked to Singapore for advice on combatting corruption in her own country, due to Singapore's incredibly low levels of corruption.\n\nIn Myanmar, Coca-Cola adopted a policy of zero-tolerance for corruption at its facilities and trucking routes. All drivers of Coca-Cola trucks carry an anti-corruption card stating that they are forbidden to bribe the traffic authorities and that they are required to report any solicitation of bribes to their supervisors. This procedure initially met with resistance but over time has been respected by police.\n\nTelenor has declared that it is “firmly opposed to corruption” and that it requires all parties in Myanmar working with Telenor Myanmar “to adhere to Telenor’s Supplier Conduct Principles.”\n\n"}
{"id": "47368009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47368009", "title": "Cuckservative", "text": "Cuckservative\n\n\"Cuckservative\" is a pejorative formed as a portmanteau of \"cuck\", a shortened form of the word \"cuckold\", and the political designation \"conservative\". It has become an increasingly popular pejorative label in the United States.\n\nThe word \"cuckservative\" reached a high level of mainstream political conversation around mid-July 2015, where it gained media attention just a few weeks before the start of the first Republican primary debate for the 2016 United States presidential election. \n\nThe term, as well as the shortened form \"cuck\" for cuckold, originated on websites such as 4chan (specifically the /pol/ imageboard) and 8chan, the right-wing message board \"My Posting Career\", the blog \"The Right Stuff\", and other sites in the alt-right movement.\n\nOne definition of \"cuckservative\" is a conservative who sells out, having bought into all of the key premises of the left, and sympathizes with liberal values. According to white supremacist Richard B. Spencer, the term is a shorthand used to express \"a certain kind of contempt for mainstream conservatives\". The phrase is similar to \"Republican In Name Only\" (RINO). Social conservatives who use the term condemn what they see as Republicans running on socially conservative values to appeal to their base during an election cycle, only to use vote trading to compromise on those values while in office. \n\nThe term \"cuckold\" has a long history as an insult implying that a specific man is weak and emasculated, and may even feel pleasure at his own humiliation. The shortened form \"cuck\" arose in this manner as an Internet insult, and it also refers to a genre of interracial pornography in which a white married woman spurns her white husband for sex with a black man. The white husband is thus cuckolded or \"cucked\".\n\nSome American political writers have suggested that the terms \"cuck\" and \"cuckservative\" are racially charged due to their interracial pornography roots, instead of simply being a sexual insult like the original \"cuckold\". For example, white men who claim communal rights to the wombs of white women view white women who have sex with black males as race traitors who have cuckolded the men of their race. Thus, \"cuck\" projects the insulter's anxieties and insults by insinuating that the target is weak or enjoys his humiliation. The term \"cuckservative\" similarly implies that certain Republicans are humiliated through their actions while feeling thrilled and excited from their own degradation because of the abandonment of their own moral standards.\n\nThose in the self-described conservative media targeted by the \"cuckservative\" slur, as well as journalists and commentators from other media outlets, have decried the term as an anti-Christian, racist slur and a rallying cry for white supremacists and neoreactionaries. Some observers, such as the Southern Poverty Law Center, say that the term's usage has been rising among white supremacists in the United States.\n\nA conservative news site in Spain translated \"cuckservative\" to \"cornuservador\", stating that: \"Republicans are nothing but the 'controlled opposition' completely in the hands of the political left, whose only aspiration is for those rare occasions when those hands pat them on the head, and the media rewards them with the coveted adjective 'moderate': these are the cornuservadores.\"\n\nWhite supremacists have used the term to condemn white politicians who they say unknowingly promote \"the interests of Jews and non-whites.\" The Anti-Defamation League says that the term is used by white supremacists as a synonym of the pre-existing phrase \"race traitors\".\n\nJeet Heer of \"The New Republic\" wrote that the word is a \"fine example of how the sound of a word can reinforce its meaning: abrasive on the ears, \"cuckservative\" appropriately enough has an ugly origin and meaning\". The word was most popularly adopted in mid-2015 after some alt-right web users were disapproving of the attempts by John McCain, Jeb Bush, and other Republicans to establish more politically liberal positions, dubbing those who did \"cuckservatives\". Over a matter of weeks, the term then proceeded to attain usage additionally on social media and the wider internet.\n\nWriting for Hot Air, Taylor Millard criticized the word and its history of usage by white supremacists within the conservative movement. He called it short-sighted, giving his opinion that Rand Paul's popularity at leading majority-black universities could make African Americans more conservative in the future. Matt Lewis, in \"The Daily Beast\", gave his opinion that the word could become as popular with Republicans as \"RINO\" (Republican In Name Only), even if they were oblivious to its often racial connotations. Erick Erickson, founder of right-wing website RedState.com, called the word an insult to Christian Republicans by white supremacists. Writing in \"The Washington Post\", David Weigel described the term as arising from disaffected elements of the right wing.\n\n"}
{"id": "7721010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721010", "title": "Cultural assimilation of Native Americans", "text": "Cultural assimilation of Native Americans\n\nThe cultural assimilation of Native Americans was an assimilation effort by the United States to transform Native American culture to European–American culture between the years of 1790 and 1920. George Washington and Henry Knox were first to propose, in an American context, the cultural transformation of Native Americans. They formulated a policy to encourage the civilizing process. With increased waves of immigration from Europe, there was growing public support for education to encourage a standard set of cultural values and practices to be held in common by the majority of citizens. Education was viewed as the primary method in the acculturation process for minorities.\n\nAmericanization policies were based on the idea that when indigenous people learned United States (American) customs and values, they would be able to merge tribal traditions with American culture and peacefully join the majority of the society. After the end of the Indian Wars, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the government outlawed the practice of traditional religious ceremonies. It established Native American boarding schools which children were required to attend. In these schools they were forced to speak English, study standard subjects, attend church, and leave tribal traditions behind.\n\nThe Dawes Act of 1887, which allotted tribal lands in severalty to individuals, was seen as a way to create individual homesteads for Native Americans. Land allotments were made in exchange for Native Americans becoming US citizens and giving up some forms of tribal self-government and institutions. It resulted in the transfer of an estimated total of from Native American control. Most was sold to individuals or given out free through the Homestead law, or given directly to Indians as individuals. The Indian Citizenship Act of 1924 was also part of Americanization policy; it gave full citizenship to all Indians living on reservations. The leading opponent of forced assimilation was John Collier, who directed the federal Office of Indian Affairs from 1933 to 1945, and tried to reverse many of the established policies.\n\nEpidemiological and archeological work has established the effects of increased immigration of children accompanying families to North America from 1634–1640. They came from areas where smallpox was endemic in the Netherlands, England and France, and passed on the disease to indigenous people. Tribes such as the Huron/Wendat and others in the Northeast particularly suffered epidemics after 1634.\n\nDuring this period European powers fought to acquire cultural and economic control of North America, just as they were doing in Europe. At the same time, indigenous peoples competed for dominance in the European fur trade and hunting areas. The French, English and Spanish powers sought to engage Native American tribes as auxiliary forces in their North American armies, otherwise composed mostly of colonial militia in the early battles. In many cases indigenous warriors formed the great majority of fighting forces, which deepened some of their rivalries. To secure the help of the tribes, the Europeans offered goods and signed treaties. The treaties usually promised that the European power would honor the tribe's traditional lands and independence. In addition, the indigenous peoples formed alliances for their own reasons, wanting to keep allies in the fur and gun trades, positioning European allies against their traditional enemies among other tribes, etc. Many Native American tribes took part in King William's War (1689–1697), Queen Anne's War (1702–1713) (War of the Spanish Succession), Dummer's War (c. 1721–1725), and the French and Indian War (1754–1763) (Seven Years' War).\n\nAs the dominant power after the Seven Years' War, Great Britain instituted the Royal Proclamation of 1763, to try to protect indigenous peoples' territory from colonial encroachment of peoples from east of the Appalachian Mountains. The document defined a boundary to separate Native American country from that of the European community. In part, this justified the English taking complete control of lands on the European side, but the proclamation did not effectively prevent individual ethnic European colonists from continuing to migrate westward. The British did not have sufficient forces to patrol the border and keep out colonists. Europeans and European governments continued to use military/diplomatic and economic force to secure control of more territories from Native Americans. For further information see European colonization of the Americas.\n\nFrom the Native American perspective, European control of an area generally means a dramatic change in their way of life, with free movement across hunting grounds curtailed or objected to, for instance, by Europeans who had different conceptions of property and the uses of land.\n\nThe struggle for empire in North America caused the United States in its earliest years to adopt an Indian policy similar to the one devised by Great Britain in colonial times. They realized that good relations with bordering tribes were important for political and trading reasons, but as had the British, they reserved the right to abandon these good relations to absorb the lands of their enemies and allies alike as the agricultural frontier moved west. The United States continued the use of Native Americans as allies, including during the American Revolutionary War and the War of 1812. As relations with England and Spain normalized during the early 19th century, the need for such friendly relations ended. It was no longer necessary to \"woo\" the tribes to prevent the other powers from using them against the United States. Now, instead of a buffer against other \"civilized\" foes, the tribes often became viewed as an obstacle in the expansion of the United States.\n\nGeorge Washington formulated a policy to encourage the \"civilizing\" process. He had a six-point plan for civilization which included:\n\n\nRobert Remini, a historian, wrote that \"once the Indians adopted the practice of private property, built homes, farmed, educated their children, and embraced Christianity, these Native Americans would win acceptance from white Americans\". The United States appointed agents, like Benjamin Hawkins, to live among the Native Americans and to teach them how to live like whites.\n\nThe Indian Removal Act of 1830 characterized the US government policy of Indian removal, which called for relocation of Native American tribes living east of the Mississippi River to lands west of the river. While it did not authorize the forced removal of the indigenous tribes, it authorized the President to negotiate land exchange treaties with tribes located in lands of the United States. The Intercourse Law of 1834 prohibited United States citizens from entering tribal lands granted by such treaties without permission, though it was often ignored.\n\nOn September 27, 1830, the Choctaws signed Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek and the first Native American tribe was to be voluntarily removed. The agreement represented one of the largest transfers of land that was signed between the U.S. Government and Native Americans without being instigated by warfare. By the treaty, the Choctaws signed away their remaining traditional homelands, opening them up for American settlement in Mississippi Territory.\n\nWhile the Indian Removal Act made the relocation of the tribes voluntary, it was often abused by government officials. The best-known example is the Treaty of New Echota. It was negotiated and signed by a small fraction of Cherokee tribal members, not the tribal leadership, on December 29, 1835. While tribal leaders objected to Washington, DC and the treaty was revised in 1836, the state of Georgia proceeded to act against the Cherokee tribe. The tribe was forced to relocate in 1838. An estimated 4,000 Cherokees died in the march, now known as the Trail of Tears.\n\nIn the decades that followed, white settlers encroached even into the western lands set aside for Native Americans. American settlers eventually made homesteads from coast to coast, just as the Native Americans had before them. No tribe was untouched by the influence of white traders, farmers, and soldiers.\n\nThe Office of Indian Affairs (Bureau of Indian Affairs as of 1947) was established on March 11, 1824, as an office of the United States Department of War, an indication of the state of relations with the Indians. It became responsible for negotiating treaties and enforcing conditions, at least for Native Americans. In 1849 the bureau was transferred to the Department of the Interior as so many of its responsibilities were related to the holding and disposition of large land assets.\n\nIn 1854 Commissioner George W. Manypenny called for a new code of regulations. He noted that there was no place in the West where the Indians could be placed with a reasonable hope that they might escape conflict with white settlers. He also called for the Intercourse Law of 1834 to be revised, as its provisions had been aimed at individual intruders on Indian territory rather than at organized expeditions.\n\nIn 1858 the succeeding Commissioner, Charles Mix, noted that the repeated removal of tribes had prevented them from acquiring a taste for European way of life. In 1862 Secretary of the Interior Caleb B. Smith questioned the wisdom of treating tribes as quasi-independent nations. Given the difficulties of the government in what it considered good efforts to support separate status for Native Americans, appointees and officials began to consider a policy of Americanization instead.\n\nThe movement to reform Indian administration and assimilate Indians as citizens originated in the pleas of people who lived in close association with the natives and were shocked by the fraudulent and indifferent management of their affairs. They called themselves \"Friends of the Indian\" and lobbied officials on their behalf. Gradually the call for change was taken up by Eastern reformers. Typically the reformers were Protestants from well organized denominations who considered assimilation necessary to the Christianizing of the Indians; Catholics were also involved. The 19th century was a time of major efforts in evangelizing missionary expeditions to all non-Christian people. In 1865 the government began to make contracts with various missionary societies to operate Indian schools for teaching citizenship, English, and agricultural and mechanical arts.\n\nIn his State of the Union Address on December 4, 1871, Ulysses Grant stated that \"the policy pursued toward the Indians has resulted favorably ... many tribes of Indians have been induced to settle upon reservations, to cultivate the soil, to perform productive labor of various kinds, and to partially accept civilization. They are being cared for in such a way, it is hoped, as to induce those still pursuing their old habits of life to embrace the only opportunity which is left them to avoid extermination.\" The emphasis became using civilian workers (not soldiers) to deal with reservation life, especially Protestant and Catholic organizations. The Quakers had promoted the peace policy in the expectation that applying Christian principles to Indian affairs would eliminate corruption and speed assimilation. Most Indians joined churches but there were unexpected problems, such as rivalry between Protestants and Catholics for control of specific reservations in order to maximize the number of souls converted.\n\nThe Quakers were motivated by high ideals, played down the role of conversion, and worked well with the Indians. They had been highly organized and motivated by the anti-slavery crusade, and after the Civil War expanded their energies to include both ex-slaves and the western tribes. They had Grant's ear and became the principal instruments for his peace policy. During 1869–1885, they served as appointed agents on numerous reservations and superintendencies in a mission centered on moral uplift and manual training. Their ultimate goal of acculturating the Indians to American culture was not reached because of frontier land hunger and Congressional patronage politics.\n\nMany other denominations volunteered to help. In 1871, John H. Stout, sponsored by the Dutch Reformed Church, was sent to the Pima reservation in Arizona to implement the policy. However Congress, the church, and private charities spent less money than was needed; the local whites strongly disliked the Indians; the Pima balked at removal; and Stout was frustrated at every turn.\n\nIn Arizona and New Mexico, the Navajo were resettled on reservations and grew rapidly in numbers. The Peace Policy began in 1870 when the Presbyterians took over the reservations. They were frustrated because they did not understand the Navajo. However, the Navajo not only gave up raiding but soon became successful at sheep ranching.\n\nThe peace policy did not fully apply to the Indian tribes that had supported the Confederacy. They lost much of their land as the United States began to confiscate the western portions of the Indian Territory and began to resettle the Indians there on smaller reservations.\n\nReaction to the massacre of Lt. Col. George Custer's unit at the Battle of the Little Big Horn in 1876 was shock and dismay at the failure of the Peace Policy. The Indian appropriations measure of August 1876 marked the end of Grant's Peace Policy. The Sioux were given the choice of either selling their lands in the Black Hills for cash or not receiving government gifts of food and other supplies.\n\nIn 1882, Interior Secretary Henry M. Teller called attention to the \"great hindrance\" of Indian customs to the progress of assimilation. The resultant \"Code of Indian Offenses\" in 1883 outlined the procedure for suppressing \"evil practice.\"\n\nA Court of Indian Offenses, consisting of three Indians appointed by the Indian Agent, was to be established at each Indian agency. The Court would serve as judges to punish offenders. Outlawed behavior included participation in traditional dances and feasts, polygamy, reciprocal gift giving and funeral practices, and intoxication or sale of liquor. Also prohibited were \"medicine men\" who \"use any of the arts of the conjurer to prevent the Indians from abandoning their heathenish rites and customs.\" The penalties prescribed for violations ranged from 10 to 90 days imprisonment and loss of government-provided rations for up to 30 days.\n\nThe Five Civilized Tribes were exempt from the Code which remained in effect until 1933.\n\nIn implementation on reservations by Indian judges, the Court of Indian Offenses became mostly an institution to punish minor crimes. The 1890 report of the Secretary of the Interior lists the activities of the Court on several reservations and apparently no Indian was prosecuted for dances or \"heathenish ceremonies.\" Significantly, 1890 was the year of the Ghost Dance, ending with the Wounded Knee Massacre.\n\nIn 1857, Chief Justice Roger B. Taney expressed that since Native Americans were \"free and independent people\" that they could become U.S. citizens. Taney asserted that Native Americans could be naturalized and join the \"political community\" of the United States.\n\nThe political ideas during the time of assimilation policy are known by many Indians as the progressive era, but more commonly known as the assimilation era.(1890–1928). The progressive era was characterized by a resolve to emphasize the importance of dignity and independence in the modern industrialized world. This idea is applied to Native Americans in a quote from Indian Affairs Commissioner John Oberly: \"[The Native American] must be imbued with the exalting egotism of American civilization so that he will say ‘I’ instead of ‘We’, and ‘This is mine’ instead of ‘This is ours’.\" Progressives also had a faith in the knowledge of experts. This was a dangerous idea to have when an emerging science was concerned with ranking races based on moral capabilities and intelligence. Indeed, the idea of an inferior Indian race made it into the courts. The progressive era thinkers also wanted to look beyond legal definitions of equality to create a realistic concept of fairness. Such a concept was thought to include a reasonable income, decent working conditions, as well as health and leisure for every American. These ideas can be seen in the decisions of the Supreme Court during the assimilation era.\n\nThrough cases such as Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, Talton v. Mayes, Winters vs. United States, United States v. Winans, United States v. Nice, and United States v. Sandoval the court set many precedents and provided building blocks for much of the new legislation concerning Native Americans. One of the basic decisions that had to be made in most of these cases was how to classify the Indian nations and what rights they were to have. Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock provides an excellent example of the implementation of the paternal view of Native Americans as it refers back to the idea of Indians as \"wards of the nation.\" Some other issues that came into play were the hunting and fishing rights of the natives, especially when land beyond theirs affected their own practices, whether or not Constitutional rights necessarily applied to Indians, and whether tribal governments had the power to establish their own laws. As new legislation tried to force the American Indians into becoming just Americans, the Supreme Court provided these critical decisions. Native American nations were labeled \"domestic dependent nations\" by Marshall in Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, one of the first landmark cases involving Indians. Some decisions focused more on the dependency of the tribes, while others preserved tribal sovereignty, while still others sometimes managed to do both.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court case \"United States v. Kagama\" (1886) set the stage for the court to make even more powerful decisions based on plenary power. To summarize congressional plenary power, the court stated:\n\nThe decision in \"United States v. Kagama\" led to the new idea that \"protection\" of Native Americans could justify intrusion into intratribal affairs. The Supreme Court and Congress were given unlimited authority with which to force assimilation and acculturation of Native Americans into American society.\n\nDuring the years leading up to passage of the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act, \"United States v. Nice\" (1916), was a result of the idea of barring American Indians from the sale of liquor. The United States Supreme Court case overruled a decision made eleven years before, \"Matter of Heff\", , which allowed American Indian U.S. citizens to drink liquor. The quick reversal shows how law concerning American Indians often shifted with the changing governmental and popular views of American Indian tribes. The US Congress continued to prohibit the sale of liquor to American Indians. While many tribal governments had long prohibited the sale of alcohol on their reservations, the ruling implied that American Indian nations could not be entirely independent, and needed a guardian for protection.\n\nLike \"United States v. Nice,\" the United States Supreme Court case of \"United States v. Sandoval\" (1913) rose from efforts to bar American Indians from the sale of liquor. As American Indians were granted citizenship, there was an effort to retain the ability to protect them as a group which was distinct from regular citizens. The Sandoval Act reversed the \"U.S. v. Joseph\" decision of 1876, which claimed that the Pueblo were not considered federal Indians. The 1913 ruling claimed that the Pueblo were \"not beyond the range of congressional power under the Constitution\". This case resulted in Congress continuing to prohibit the sale of liquor to American Indians. The ruling continued to suggest that American Indians needed protection.\n\nThere were several United States Supreme Court cases during the assimilation era that focused on the sovereignty of American Indian nations. These cases were extremely important in setting precedents for later cases and for legislation dealing with the sovereignty of American Indian nations.\n\n\"Ex parte Crow Dog\" was a US Supreme Court appeal by an Indian who had been found guilty of murder and sentenced to death. The defendant was an American Indian who had been found guilty of the murder of another American Indian. Crow Dog argued that the district court did not have the jurisdiction to try him for a crime committed between two American Indians that happened on an American Indian reservation. The court found that although the reservation was located within the territory covered by the district court's jurisdiction, Rev. Stat. § 2146 precluded the inmate's indictment in the district court. Section 2146 stated that Rev. Stat. § 2145, which made the criminal laws of the United States applicable to Indian country, did not apply to crimes committed by one Indian against another, or to crimes for which an Indian was already punished by the law of his tribe. The Court issued the writs of \"habeas corpus\" and \"certiorari\" to the Indian.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court case of \"Talton v. Mayes\" was a decision respecting the authority of tribal governments. This case decided that the individual rights protections, specifically the Fifth Amendment, which limit federal, and later, state governments, do not apply to tribal government. It reaffirmed earlier decisions, such as the 1831 \"Cherokee Nation v. Georgia\" case, that gave Indian tribes the status of \"domestic dependent nations\", the sovereignty of which is independent of the federal government. \"Talton v. Mayes\" is also a case dealing with Native American dependence, as it deliberated over and upheld the concept of congressional plenary authority. This part of the decision led to some important pieces of legislation concerning Native Americans, the most important of which is the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968.\n\nThis United States Supreme Court case occurred when an American Indian shot and killed a non-Indian. The question arose of whether or not the United States Supreme Court had jurisdiction over this issue. In an effort to argue against the Supreme Court having jurisdiction over the proceedings, the defendant filed a petition seeking a writ of certiorari. This request for judicial review, upon writ of error, was denied. The court held that a conviction for murder, punishable with death, was no less a conviction for a capital crime by reason even taking into account the fact that the jury qualified the punishment. The American Indian defendant was sentenced to life in prison.\n\nThis United States Supreme court case came about when the surviving partner of the firm of E. Montoya & Sons petitioned against the United States and the Mescalero Apache Indians for the value their livestock which was taken in March 1880. It was believed that the livestock was taken by \"Victorio's Band\" which was a group of these American Indians. It was argued that the group of American Indians who had taken the livestock were distinct from any other American Indian tribal group, and therefore the Mescalero Apache American Indian tribe should not be held responsible for what had occurred. After the hearing, the Supreme Court held that the judgment made previously in the Court of Claims would not be changed. This is to say that the Mescalero Apache American Indian tribe would not be held accountable for the actions of Victorio's Band. This outcome demonstrates not only the sovereignty of American Indian tribes from the United States, but also their sovereignty from one another. One group of American Indians cannot be held accountable for the actions of another group of American Indians, even though they are all part of the American Indian nation.\n\nIn this case, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Yakama tribe, reaffirming their prerogative to fish and hunt on off-reservation land. Further, the case established two important principles regarding the interpretation of treaties. First, treaties would be interpreted in the way Indians would have understood them and \"as justice and reason demand\". Second, the Reserved Rights Doctrine was established which states that treaties are not rights granted to the Indians, but rather \"a reservation by the Indians of rights already possessed and not granted away by them\". These \"reserved\" rights, meaning never having been transferred to the United States or any other sovereign, include property rights, which include the rights to fish, hunt and gather, and political rights. Political rights reserved to the Indian nations include the power to regulate domestic relations, tax, administer justice, or exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court Case \"Winters v. United States\" was a case primarily dealing with water rights of American Indian reservations. This case clarified what water sources American Indian tribes had \"implied\" rights to put to use. This case dealt with the Fort Belknap Indian Reservation and their right to utilize the water source of the Milk River in Montana. The reservation had been created without clearly stating the explicit water rights that the Fort Belknap American Indian reservation had. This became a problem once non-Indian settlers began moving into the area and using the Milk River as a water source for their settlements. As water sources are extremely sparse and limited in Montana, this argument of who had the legal rights to use the water was presented. After the case was tried, the Supreme Court came to the decision that the Fort Belknap reservation had reserved water rights through the 1888 agreement which had created the American Indian Reservation in the first place. This case was very important in setting a precedent for cases after the assimilation era. It was used as a precedent for the cases \"Arizona v. California\", \"Tulee v. Washington\", \"Washington v. McCoy\", \"Nevada v. United States\", \"Cappaert v. United States\", \"Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States\", \"United States v. New Mexico\", and \"Arizona v. San Carlos Apache Tribe of Arizona\" which all focused on the sovereignty of American Indian tribes.\n\nAs more Native Americans received allotments through the Dawes Act, there was a great deal of public and state pressure to tax allottees. However, in the United States Supreme court case \"Choate v. Trapp\", , the court ruled for Indian allottees to be exempt from state taxation.\n\nThis United States Supreme Court case resulted when a defendant appealed the decision on his case. The defendant filed a writ of error to obtain review of his conviction after being convicted of unlawfully introducing intoxicating liquor into an American Indian reservation. This act was found a violation of the Act of Congress of January 30, 1897, ch. 109, 29 Stat. 506. The defendant's appeal stated that the district court lacked jurisdiction because the offense for which he was convicted did not occur in American Indian country. The defendant had been arrested while traveling on a train that had just crossed over from American Indian country. The defendant's argument held and the Supreme Court reversed the defendant's conviction remanding the cause to the district court with directions to quash the indictment and discharge the defendant.\n\nThis case was sent to the United States Supreme Court after first appearing in a district court in South Dakota. The case dealt with adultery committed on a Sioux Indian reservation. The district court had held that adultery committed by an Indian with another Indian on an Indian reservation was not punishable under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 397, 24 Stat. 635, now § 316 of the Penal Code. This decision was made because the offense occurred on a Sioux Indian reservation which is not said to be under jurisdiction of the district court. The United States Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the district court saying that the adultery was not punishable as it had occurred between two American Indians on an American Indian reservation.\n\nIn 1634, Fr. Andrew White of the Society of Jesus established a mission in what is now the state of Maryland, and the purpose of the mission, stated through an interpreter to the chief of an Indian tribe there, was \"to extend civilization and instruction to his ignorant race, and show them the way to heaven\". The mission's annual records report that by 1640, a community had been founded which they named St. Mary's, and the Indians were sending their children there \"to be educated among the English\". This included the daughter of the Pascatoe Indian chief Tayac, which exemplified, or an early co-ed school. The same records report that in 1677, \"a school for humanities was opened by our Society in the centre of [Maryland], directed by two of the Fathers; and the native youth, applying themselves assiduously to study, made good progress. Maryland and the recently established school sent two boys to St. Omer who yielded in abilities to few Europeans, when competing for the honour of being first in their class. So that not gold, nor silver, nor the other products of the earth alone, but men also are gathered from thence to bring those regions, which foreigners have unjustly called ferocious, to a higher state of virtue and cultivation.\"\n\nIn 1727, the Sisters of the Order of Saint Ursula founded Ursuline Academy in New Orleans, which is currently the oldest, continuously-operating school for girls and the oldest Catholic school in the United States. From the time of its foundation it offered the first classes for Native American girls, and would later offer classes for female African-American slaves and free women of color.\n\nThe Carlisle Indian Industrial School founded by Richard Henry Pratt in 1879 was the first Indian boarding school established. Pratt was encouraged by the progress of Native Americans whom he had supervised as prisoners in Florida, where they had received basic education. When released, several were sponsored by American church groups to attend institutions such as Hampton Institute. He believed education was the means to bring American Indians into society.\n\nPratt professed \"assimilation through total immersion\". Because he had seen men educated at schools like Hampton Institute become educated and assimilated, he believed the principles could be extended to Indian children. Immersing them in the larger culture would help them adapt. In addition to reading, writing, and arithmetic, the Carlisle curriculum was modeled on the many industrial schools: it constituted vocational training for boys and domestic science for girls, in expectation of their opportunities on the reservations, including chores around the school and producing goods for market. In the summer, students were assigned to local farms and townspeople for boarding and to continue their immersion. They also provided labor at low cost, at a time when many children earned pay for their families.\n\nCarlisle and its curriculum became the model for schools sponsored by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. By 1902 there were twenty-five federally funded non-reservation schools across fifteen states and territories with a total enrollment of over 6,000. Although federal legislation made education compulsory for Native Americans, removing students from reservations required parental authorization. Officials coerced parents into releasing a quota of students from any given reservation.\n\nOnce the new students arrived at the boarding schools, their lives altered drastically. They were usually given new haircuts, uniforms of European-American style clothes, and even new English names, sometimes based on their own, other times assigned at random. They could no longer speak their own languages, even with each other. They were expected to attend Christian churches. Their lives were run by the strict orders of their teachers, and it often included grueling chores and stiff punishments.\n\nAdditionally, infectious disease was widespread in society, and often swept through the schools. This was due to lack of information about causes and prevention, inadequate sanitation, insufficient funding for meals, overcrowded conditions, and students whose resistance was low.\n\nAn Indian boarding school was one of many schools that were established in the United States during the late 19th century to educate Native American youths according to American standards. In some areas, these schools were primarily run by missionaries. Especially given the young age of some of the children sent to the schools, they have been documented as traumatic experiences for many of the children who attended them. They were generally forbidden to speak their native languages, taught Christianity instead of their native religions, and in numerous other ways forced to abandon their Indian identity and adopt American culture. Many cases of mental and sexual abuse have been documented, as in North Dakota.\n\nBy 1923 in the Northwest, most Indian schools had closed and Indian students were attending public schools. States took on increasing responsibility for their education. Other studies suggest attendance in some Indian boarding schools grew in areas of the United States throughout the first half of the 20th century, doubling from 1900 to the 1960s. Enrollment reached its highest point in the 1970s. In 1973, 60,000 American Indian children were estimated to have been enrolled in an Indian boarding school. In 1976, the Tobeluk vs Lund case was brought by teenage Native Alaskan plaintiffs against the State of Alaska alleging that the public school situation was still an unequal one.\n\nThe Meriam Report, officially titled \"The Problem of Indian Administration\", was prepared for the Department of Interior. Assessments found the schools to be underfunded and understaffed, too heavily institutionalized, and run too rigidly. What had started as an idealistic program about education had gotten subverted.\n\nIt recommended:\n\nJohn Collier, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 1933–1945, set the priorities of the New Deal policies toward Native Americans, with an emphasis on reversing as much of the assimilationist policy as he could. Collier was instrumental in ending the loss of reservations lands held by Indians, and in enabling many tribal nations to re-institute self-government and preserve their traditional culture. Some Indian tribes rejected the unwarranted outside interference with their own political systems the new approach had brought them.\n\nCollier's 1920– 1922 visit to Taos Pueblo had a lasting impression on Collier. He now saw the Indian world as morally superior to American society, which he considered to be \"physically, religiously, socially, and aesthetically shattered, dismembered, directionless\". Collier came under attack for his romantic views about the moral superiority of traditional society as opposed to modernity. Philp says after his experience at the Taos Pueblo, Collier \"made a lifelong commitment to preserve tribal community life because it offered a cultural alternative to modernity. ... His romantic stereotyping of Indians often did not fit the reality of contemporary tribal life.\"\n\nCollier carried through the Indian New Deal with Congress' passage of the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934. It was one of the most influential and lasting pieces of legislation relating to federal Indian policy. Also known as the Wheeler–Howard Act, this legislation reversed fifty years of assimilation policies by emphasizing Indian self-determination and a return of communal Indian land, which was in direct contrast with the objectives of the Indian General Allotment Act of 1887.\n\nCollier was also responsible for getting the Johnson–O'Malley Act passed in 1934, which allowed the Secretary of the Interior to sign contracts with state governments to subsidize public schooling, medical care, and other services for Indians who did not live on reservations. The act was effective only in Minnesota.\n\nCollier's support of the Navajo Livestock Reduction program resulted in Navajo opposition to the Indian New Deal. The Indian Rights Association denounced Collier as a \"dictator\" and accused him of a \"near reign of terror\" on the Navajo reservation. According to historian Brian Dippie, \"(Collier) became an object of 'burning hatred' among the very people whose problems so preoccupied him.\"\n\nSeveral events in the late 1960s and mid-1970s (Kennedy Report, National Study of American Indian Education, Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975) led to renewed emphasis on community schools. Many large Indian boarding schools closed in the 1980s and early 1990s. In 2007, 9,500 American Indian children lived in an Indian boarding school dormitory. From 1879 when the Carlisle Indian School was founded to the present day, more than 100,000 American Indians are estimated to have attended an Indian boarding school.\n\nA similar system in Canada was known as the Canadian residential school system.\n\nWhile the concerted effort to assimilate Native Americans into American culture was abandoned officially, integration of Native American tribes and individuals continues to the present day. Often Native Americans are perceived as having been assimilated. However, some Native Americans feel a particular sense of being from another society or do not belong in a primarily \"white\" European majority society, despite efforts to socially integrate them.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, as efforts were still under way for assimilation, some studies treated American Indians simply as another ethnic minority, rather than citizens of semi-sovereign entities which they are entitled to by treaty. The following quote from the May 1957 issue of \"Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\", shows this:\n\nSince the 1960s, however, there have been major changes in society. Included is a broader appreciation for the pluralistic nature of United States society and its many ethnic groups, as well as for the special status of Native American nations. More recent legislation to protect Native American religious practices, for instance, points to major changes in government policy. Similarly the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990 was another recognition of the special nature of Native American culture and federal responsibility to protect it.\n\nAs of 2013, \"Montana is the only state in the U.S. with a constitutional mandate to teach American Indian history, culture, and heritage to preschool through higher education students via the Indian Education for All Act.\" The \"Indian Education for All\" curriculum, created by the Montana Office of Public Instruction, is distributed online for primary and secondary schools.\n\nTo evade a shift to English, some Native American tribes have initiated language immersion schools for children, where a native Indian language is the medium of instruction. For example, the Cherokee Nation instigated a 10-year language preservation plan that involved growing new fluent speakers of the Cherokee language from childhood on up through school immersion programs as well as a collaborative community effort to continue to use the language at home. This plan was part of an ambitious goal that in 50 years, 80% or more of the Cherokee people will be fluent in the language. The Cherokee Preservation Foundation has invested $3 million into opening schools, training teachers, and developing curricula for language education, as well as initiating community gatherings where the language can be actively used. Formed in 2006, the Kituwah Preservation & Education Program (KPEP) on the Qualla Boundary focuses on language immersion programs for children from birth to fifth grade, developing cultural resources for the general public and community language programs to foster the Cherokee language among adults.\n\nThere is also a Cherokee language immersion school in Tahlequah, Oklahoma that educates students from pre-school through eighth grade. Because Oklahoma's official language is English, Cherokee immersion students are hindered when taking state-mandated tests because they have little competence in English. The Department of Education of Oklahoma said that in 2012 state tests: 11% of the school's sixth-graders showed proficiency in math, and 25% showed proficiency in reading; 31% of the seventh-graders showed proficiency in math, and 87% showed proficiency in reading; 50% of the eighth-graders showed proficiency in math, and 78% showed proficiency in reading. The Oklahoma Department of Education listed the charter school as a Targeted Intervention school, meaning the school was identified as a low-performing school but has not so that it was a Priority School. Ultimately, the school made a C, or a 2.33 grade point average on the state's A–F report card system. The report card shows the school getting an F in mathematics achievement and mathematics growth, a C in social studies achievement, a D in reading achievement, and an A in reading growth and student attendance. \"The C we made is tremendous,\" said school principal Holly Davis, \"[t]here is no English instruction in our school's younger grades, and we gave them this test in English.\" She said she had anticipated the low grade because it was the school's first year as a state-funded charter school, and many students had difficulty with English. Eighth graders who graduate from the Tahlequah immersion school are fluent speakers of the language, and they usually go on to attend Sequoyah High School where classes are taught in both English and Cherokee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42554279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42554279", "title": "Dar al-Hikma (Iraqi publishing house)", "text": "Dar al-Hikma (Iraqi publishing house)\n\nDar al-Hikma (, 'House of Wisdom') was an underground publishing house, set up by the Iraqi Communist Party in September 1945. It published literature on politics, science, economy and culture. It issues Arabic translations on Friedrich Engels' \"Origin of the Family\", Maxim Gorky's \"Mother\" and texts of Stalin on dialectics and historical materialism. The main source for the literature published was English-language books brought from the Soviet Union. Party members working with bookstores in Baghdad and Amarah enabled the sales of the books. Dar al-Hikma was financed by contributions from party members, the party managed to gather 6,000 Iraqi dinars for the purpose. Dar al-Hikma had a short life-span.\n"}
{"id": "56903499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56903499", "title": "Delta Stewardship Council", "text": "Delta Stewardship Council\n\nIn November 2009, the California Legislature enacted SBX7 1 (Delta Reform Act), one of several bills passed related to water supply reliability, ecosystem health, and the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta. The Act, effective on Feb. 3, 2010, called for the creation of the Delta Stewardship Council. \n\nThe Council has seven members, who are consulted by a 10-member board of scientists, the Delta Independent Science Board.\n\nThe Act required that the Council develop a management plan for the Delta to ensure coordinated action at the federal, state, and local levels. This document is referred to as the Delta Plan. \n\nPart of SBX7 1, Water Code Section 85204 also mandated the Council \"establish and oversee a committee of agencies responsible for implementing the Delta Plan\" to ensure that the actions of other agencies conform to the Delta Plan's policies.\n\nAs stated in the Delta Reform Act, the Council stems from the California (CALFED) Bay-Delta Authority. Likewise, the Delta Science Program replaced the CALFED Science Program and the Delta Independent Science Board replaced the CALFED Independent Science Board.\n"}
{"id": "537190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537190", "title": "Democratic Labour", "text": "Democratic Labour\n\nDemocratic Labour was a minor political party operating in the United Kingdom in the 1970s. They were formed by the Labour MP, Dick Taverne when his Constituency Labour Party (Lincoln) asked him to stand down as their candidate at the next general election. He had fallen out with them over Britain's continued membership of the European Economic Community which he supported but they did not.\n\nTaverne resigned from Labour on 6 October 1972, forming the \"Lincoln Democratic Labour Association\" which his supporters in the CLP joined. His initial ambitions were to eventually re-join the Labour Party, but there were some who attempted to persuade him to try to establish a new party of the political centre.\n\nTaverne resigned from parliament at the same time that he resigned from the Labour Party in order to force the issue into the open, and he won the ensuing Lincoln by-election, held in March,1973.\n\nHis victory was aided by the lack of a Liberal candidate as it decided instead to support his candidacy (in those days the party was only able to stand in a limited number of places and had a very limited base to work from in Lincoln) and the controversial adoption of Jonathan Guinness by the Conservatives.\n\nShortly after his by-election victory, Taverne formed the \"Campaign for Social Democracy\" as a nationally based body. He was re-elected in the February 1974 general election, and continued to serve until the October 1974 general election when he was defeated (Wilson demanding the Labour Party \"throw the kitchen sink\" at Lincoln to get him out). He did not stand in the seat again, but Democratic Labour continued to organise politically, to the extent that Democratic Labour controlled Lincoln City Council from 1973 until 1979 and across England during the 1973 local elections Democratic Labour candidates achieved some success.\n\nAt the 1979 general election, Democratic Labour contested two seats: Lincoln and Brigg and Scunthorpe. Taverne advised against nominating any candidates but campaigned for them anyway. Both were unsuccessful in their attempts to gain seats in the House of Commons, losing their deposits (at that time, 12.5% of the vote was needed to keep deposits, falling to 5% after the 1983 General Election).\n\nIn 1980, Democratic Labour merged with the Social Democratic Alliance. A social club they had established ran until 1987.\n\nIn many ways, Democratic Labour can be seen as a forerunner of the Social Democratic Party, which was formed by many of the viewpoints as Taverne, that broke away from Labour in the early 1980s. Taverne twice stood as a Social Democratic Party candidate but failed to be elected.\n"}
{"id": "13125712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13125712", "title": "Dudelange communal council", "text": "Dudelange communal council\n\nDudelange communal council (; Luxembourgish: \"Diddelenger Gemengerot\") is the local council for the commune of \"Dudelange\" (Luxem-bourgish: \"Diddeleng\"), in southern Luxembourg.\n\nIt consists of seventeen members, elected every six years by proportional representation. The last elections were held on 9 October 2005, and resulted in a victory for the Luxembourg Socialist Workers' Party (LSAP). In the \"collège échevinal\" (Luxembourgish: \"Schäfferot\"; English: \"Board of Aldermen\"), the LSAP rules outright, under the leadership of mayor Alex Bodry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15904533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15904533", "title": "Europe of Nations", "text": "Europe of Nations\n\nThe Europe of Nations Group was a Eurosceptic political group with seats in the European Parliament between 1994 and 1996.\n\nThe Europe of Nations Group (Coordination Group) was formed on 19 July 1994. It was the first Eurosceptic Group in the Parliament. It lasted until 10 November 1996. The group was succeeded by the Independents for a Europe of Nations from 20 December 1996.\n\nMEPs in Europe of Nations Group (Coordination Group) on 1 August 1994 were as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "42655676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42655676", "title": "European Border Surveillance System", "text": "European Border Surveillance System\n\nThe European Border Surveillance System (commonly abbreviated Eurosur) is a surveillance system of the European Union (EU) that uses drones, reconnaissance aircraft, offshore sensors and satellite remote sensing, to track illegal immigration into the member states of the European Union. The program was put into effect by the European parliament on October 10, 2013. On December 2, 2013, Eurosur was started in 18 EU member states and Norway.\n\nEurosur is primarily a program that allows exchange of information, that supports the cooperation of national immigration agencies. Its goal is to gain information about recent refugee movements and the activity of human trafficking organizations as quickly as possible.\n\nThe rescue of people in distress has also been adopted into the Eurosur regulation. Different aspects of the program are being criticized.\n\nAs of October 2013, 244 million Euros have been secured from the EU budget for the installation and maintenance of the system until 2020. Critics expect the costs of the project to surpass one billion Euros - other sources however mention expected costs of around 340 million Euros.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4934649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4934649", "title": "Felice Casson", "text": "Felice Casson\n\nFelice Casson (born 5 August 1953 in Chioggia, Province of Venice) is an Italian magistrate and politician, who discovered the existence of Operation Gladio, a \"stay-behind\" NATO anti-communist army during the Cold War, while investigating on the Peteano bombing in 1972, for which two neo-fascists were convicted; the explosives used in the attack supposedly came from a NATO arms cache. 622 Gladio members, including two people who served as prime minister and president, were exposed in the course of the investigation.\n\nFelice Casson is a Member of the Senate of the Italian Republic.\n\nHe obtained a law degree from Padua University and entered the magistracy in 1980 as an investigating magistrate. He was subsequently appointed as responsible for preliminary investigations and was public prosecutor in Venice from 1993 to 2005.\n\nHe has been on leave since 2006 following his election to the Italian Parliament. In 2008 he was re-elected to the Senate and elected Vice President of the Democratic Party Group. As a magistrate, among the many investigations conducted by Casson - especially in the field of terrorism, the fight against corruption, environmental security, the protection of workers and citizens from exposure to carcinogenic agents - are those on the Peteano massacre, disloyalty of the intelligence service and the State apparatus, terrorism and radical right-wing and international subversive organisations, global trade in warfare material, the GLADIO case, political corruption in the Veneto region, the fire of La Fenice Theatre in Venice, the trials over deaths from VCM, PVC and asbestos in Marghera, investigations into environmental pollution, disorders caused by depleted uranium and radio spectrum pollution.\n\nAs a Senator, he was member of the following committees: Committee on Elections and Parliamentary Immunity, Committee on the Prosecution of Government Members, Standing Commission on the Justice, Committee of Inquiry into Depleted Uranium and the Committee on Workplace Deaths.\n\nIn particular, he introduced and promoted bills on the fight against corruption and organized crime, the streamlining of civil and criminal law proceedings, safety and prevention measures for workers exposed to genotoxic, carcinogenic substances such asbestos and VCM, environmental crime, population safety and the protection of crime victims.\n\nHe taught Environmental Law at the Venice Istituto Universitario di Architettura and the Università telematica internazionale Uninettuno.\n\nHe is a member of the scientific board of the Venice International Academy of Environmental Sciences (IAES).\n\nCasson features in the 2009 documentary \"\", directed by .\n\n"}
{"id": "455415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455415", "title": "Human Relations Area Files", "text": "Human Relations Area Files\n\nThe Human Relations Area Files, Inc. (HRAF), located in New Haven, Connecticut is a nonprofit international membership organization with over 500 member institutions in the U.S. and more than 20 other countries. A financially autonomous research agency based at Yale University since 1949, its mission is to promote understanding of cultural diversity and commonality in the past and present. To accomplish this mission, the Human Relations Area Files produces scholarly resources and infrastructure for research, teaching and learning, and supports and conducts original research on cross-cultural variation. \n\nHRAF produces two flagship databases accessible by its members: \"eHRAF World Cultures\" and \"eHRAF Archaeology\". HRAF also sponsors and edits the quarterly journal, Cross-Cultural Research: The Journal of Comparative Social Science. Expanded and updated annually, \"eHRAF World Cultures\" includes ethnographic materials on cultures, past and present, all over the world. Also expanding annually, \"eHRAF Archaeology\" covers major archaeological traditions and many more sub-traditions and sites around the world. Documents in both \"eHRAF\" databases are subject-indexed at the paragraph level by HRAF anthropologists. \n\nIn addition, HRAF offers several open-access resources. \"Explaining Human Culture\" is a database with standardized summaries that provides a searchable way for researchers to find out what has been learned from previous cross-cultural research about cultural universals and differences. \"Explaining Human Culture\" also features topical articles on cross-cultural insights (e.g., cross-cultural perspectives on childhood, dwellings, and sports). \"Introducing Cross-Cultural Research\" is a series of PDFs constituting a \"crash course\" in cross-cultural methods. Finally, \"Teaching eHRAF\" is a library of teaching exercises and syllabi (many designed by professors at member institutions) that use \"eHRAF\" to explore cultural diversity.\n\nOn February 26, 1949, delegates from Harvard University, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Oklahoma, the University of Washington, and Yale University met in New Haven, Connecticut to pledge their membership in a new nonprofit research consortium to be based at Yale. The plan was to \"develop and distribute files of organized information related to human societies and cultures.\" The name of the new inter-university corporation was the Human Relations Area Files, Inc. (HRAF). It is an ever-growing catalogue of cross-indexed ethnographic data, sorted and filed by geographic location and cultural characteristics.\n\nThe name came from the Institute of Human Relations, an interdisciplinary program at Yale at the time. The Institute of Human Relations had sponsored HRAF's precursor, the \"Cross-Cultural Survey\" (see George Peter Murdock), as part of an effort to develop an integrated science of human behavior and culture. On May 7, 1949, the HRAF consortium was formally established with three additional universities—the University of Chicago, the University of North Carolina, and the University of Southern California. As of 2018, there are 21 sponsoring members and hundreds of associate members. The HRAF Collection of Ethnography (the pre-electronic precursor to \"eHRAF World Cultures\") was originally distributed as paper files. From the early 1960s until 1994, most members received their annual installments on microfiche. Since 1994, the annual installments have been in electronic form, first on CD-ROM and later online.\n\nThe HRAF databases were developed to foster comparative research on humans in all their variety, from small-scale hunting and gathering societies to complex states. This provides a contrast to databases that focus solely on countries. In addition, the databases, in contrast to bibliographic ones that provide pointers to materials, actually contain those materials. Searching across cultures for particular kinds of information is facilitated by the unique ethnographic subject classification system that HRAF has developed and refined over more than 60 years, the Outline of Cultural Materials or OCM. In contrast to most subject-indexing which is done at the document level, HRAF has its indexers subject index at the paragraph level. \n\nFor example, suppose users are interested in assessing the degree to which various cultures depend on stored foods. They would discover that there is an index subject category called \"Preservation and Storage of Food\" (OCM 251). Searching by that subject category would retrieve all of the paragraphs that describe dried, smoked, pickled, refrigerated, frozen, and canned foods, and whatever other ways the people of the given culture store or preserve food. The analysts at HRAF, who have read through and indexed every page of every text that goes into the HRAF files, have made it possible to find the relevant information, even when the user does not know in advance which particular words (including untranslated native words) the original authors may have used. It is also possible to search the eHRAF texts by the words that actually appear in them. The most efficient searches may use a combination of OCM subject categories and keywords, using Boolean operators. But, if there is no standard vocabulary for the subject matter of interest, the user can always use the OCM subject categories to get to the particular kinds of information sought.\n\nThe eHRAF Collections can be used for teaching and research on any aspect of cultural and social life. The collections are primarily organized by major geographical region, and then by culture or archaeological tradition, so researchers can access information about particular cultures, particular regions of the world, or do a worldwide or regional cross-cultural comparison. See Cross-cultural studies.\n\nAlthough the HRAF collections can be used for many purposes, they were primarily designed to enable researchers to find information quickly across a broad range of cultures so that societies could be compared on particular dimensions of variation. Most cross-cultural researchers test hypotheses on worldwide samples with the aim of arriving at valid generalizations about human behavior and social and cultural life. But smaller-scale comparisons are also possible, such as regional comparisons, or comparisons of particular types of societies (such as hunter-gatherers or prehistoric states). While passages in ethnographies or archaeological reports are readily found using HRAF's subject-indexing system, there are few pre-coded variables in eHRAF. Therefore, a researcher needs to develop nominal, ordinal, or interval coding scales to measure the particular types of variation he or she is interested in measuring.\n\nFor example, the subject category \"Techniques of Socialization\" (OCM 861) will find passages that deal with cultural ideas about childtraining or general methods of discipline, but coding schemes need to be developed to measure dimensions of variation, such as \"degree to which corporal punishment is employed,\" \"degree to which threatening is employed,\" or \"degree to which children are praised.\" It is not difficult, after a little practice, to develop ordinal scales that can allow for the coding of words into quantitative measures, and once that is done it is easy to use available software to test hypotheses, and compare, combine, and model the results. The indexed texts in HRAF are also amenable to qualitative cross-cultural comparisons.\n\nThe HRAF databases were built somewhat opportunistically, so for hypothesis-testing research it is best to use a sub-sample within \"eHRAF\" that was designed to be representative. There are two main representative sub-samples within \"eHRAF World Cultures\" and one within \"eHRAF Archaeology\". \"eHRAF World Cultures\" contains 1) a 60-culture sample known as the \"Probability Sample Files\" (PSF); and 2) most of the societies in the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample (expected to be completely included by 2020). Researchers can use the PSF to test hypotheses on a fairly large and unbiased sample of the world's cultures. Because the PSF sample includes only one culture (that met data quality criteria) randomly selected from each of 60 macro-culture areas around the world, correlations and other statistical results are likely to be trustworthy and functional, not due to duplications in the sample because of random diffusion or common ancestry. From 2000 on, \"eHRAF World Cultures\" has included additional randomly selected cases that may be added to the PSF for scientific sampling (called the Simple Random Sample). The Standard Cross-Cultural Sample of 186 societies also stratified the world into culture areas and then chose one society per culture area, but it differs from the PSF in that 200 culture areas were used and the choice of a society was based on judgmental rather than random selection. \"eHRAF Archaeology\" includes an annually-growing Simple Random Sample (SRS) of archaeological traditions drawn from the Outline Of Archaeological Traditions that can be used for hypothesis-testing. In addition, \"eHRAF Archaeology\" contains complete tradition sequences. \n\nThe results of cross-cultural studies using ethnography are usually correlational. But it would be informative to go beyond cross-sectional validation, in particular to see if temporal sequences validate causal theories. The \"eHRAF World Cultures\" database often contains information from more than one time period, so while not often done, it is possible to measure ethnographic cases for two different points in time. But for many questions about cultural evolution, the ethnographic (or ethnohistorical) record is not likely to provide enough of the necessary time-series data for statistical analysis.\n\nThis dilemma particularly applies to the classical questions about human cultural evolution, including the emergence of agriculture, the rise of social inequality and the first cities, and the origins of the state. Investigators of cultural evolution can use the \"eHRAF World Cultures and eHRAF Archaeology\" databases to study and model causal sequences. Cross-cultural (comparative ethnographic) studies can provide archaeological indicators of cultural and other (e.g., physical and social environmental) features. Using those indicators, researchers could test many causal ideas about the major events in cultural evolution and devolution on the time-series data in the archaeological record. Thus, the data in \"eHRAF Archaeology\" can allow researchers to determine whether evolutionary patterns in one region are repeated in others, and to determine whether the presumed causal factors in one region are important, and antecedent, in other world regions too. Comparative ethnography can tell us about cultural statics, what predicts cross-cultural variation in recent times. Comparative archaeology can tell us about cultural dynamics, what comes first and what follows what in prehistory.\n\nMore and more types of investigators—not just anthropologists—are now doing worldwide cross-cultural research. Psychologists, political scientists, sociologists, and evolutionary biologists also now use HRAF to test universal hypotheses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223055", "title": "Ion Mihalache", "text": "Ion Mihalache\n\nIon Mihalache (; March 3, 1882 – February 5, 1963) was a Romanian agrarian politician, the founder and leader of the Peasants' Party (PȚ) and a main figure of its successor, the National Peasants' Party (PNȚ).\n\nA schoolteacher born into a peasant family of Topoloveni, he served as a lieutenant in the Romanian Army during World War I. Mihalache, who soon became popular among Orthodox priests and village teachers, served as president of the local teachers' association.\n\nHe founded the PȚ in the Romanian Old Kingdom in 1918; under his leadership, it emerged from northern Muntenia and became a grouping with national appeal. The PȚ had much success in the elections of November 1919, forming a coalition government with the Transylvanian Romanian National Party (PNR), under Alexandru Vaida-Voevod. As a politician, Mihalache made himself known for supporting a political option that mixed traditionalist reserve towards industrialization and calls for preserving the rural base of Romanian economy through voluntary cooperative farming (allowing for a peasant-based industry) with a vision of left-wing Corporatism. In 1929, he wrote:\n\"Many have thought that [economic success] was only possible for the large-scale agricultural entrepreneur. And this is why they have supported that only on the basis of large-scale property can there be carried out a wise and lucrative agriculture, and that dividing the land leads to a decrease in production.<br>Perhaps it would be this way, if the small-scale agricultural entrepreneur will not 'organize' himself and will not enlighten himself.<br>But the cure was found: the association of peasants into agricultural cooperatives, which bring: money, as well as utensils, as well as \"regulated sales\", as well as \"industrialization\".\"\n\nHe notably took the initiative in calling for peaceful marches of peasants and members of the rural intelligentsia, and would almost always dress in accordance with the peasant tradition of his native Muscel County.\n\nMihalache became Vaida-Voevod's Minister of Agriculture on December 16, 1919, in a cabinet replacing that of General Artur Văitoianu. Despite having led a populist movement, the People's Party, Averescu continuously opposed Mihalache's push for widespread land reform.\n\nThe new minister found himself at odds with the political establishment over the issue of land redistribution: promised by Ion I. C. Brătianu's National Liberal (PNL) government during World War I, and partly carried out in December 1918, the move viewed as incomplete - expropriations had not led to a redefinition of peasant property, and land had remained with provisional cooperatives instead of being allocated to members. Mihalache supported the fragmentation of all land property in a country of medium to small sized landowners. The Peasants' Party calculated leaving no landowner with more than on one square kilometre, which also included expropriating land for common pasture. At the same time, Vaida-Voevod's government created a conflict over its projects for constitutional reform, clashing with the PNL over the highly centralized government and support for the 1866 Constitution of Romania advocated by the latter. Mihalache is also known to have traveled incognito to various locations, as a means to observe first-hand abuse by government officials.\n\nAfter a deadlock over these issues in Parliament, Averescu's group and the National Liberals began negotiation a new parliamentary majority; advised by Nicolae Iorga, who was president of the Chamber, Mihalache handed in his resignation (March 12, 1920), with the expectation that the land reform project was to be endorsed by parliamentary initiative. It was advanced later in the same day by the PȚ's Grigore Iunian. King Ferdinand I intervened in favor of the National Liberals, installing Averescu, who had reached an agreement with Brătianu, as Prime Minister.\n\nA major factor in this move was pressure from the landowners to remove a threat to the system (notably, Constantin Garoflid filed a complaint with the king, while Mihalache caused scandal when he publicly assured peasants that the monarch's opposition was ultimately irrelevant. At the same time, the PȚ's politics had given way to fears that it was a Romanian equivalent of Aleksandar Stamboliyski's Agrarian Union of Bulgaria, or even a parallel to Bolshevism. To the latter accusation, Mihalache once replied indicating, as other leaders of his party had done, his belief that the peasant's needs identified with the national interest:\n\"Thus — after so many years of 'harmony', we arrive today as the 'agitators of social order' and clearly state:<br>\"Enough with the lie about social harmony. There is a conflict between social classes. We do not deny it, but rather bring it to light. We wish to take part in the fight in the name of an underprivileged working class, the peasantry. We wish to rally it in a class party. We shall not ask anybody for power, we shall fight to have the fair number of representatives of the peasant class in Parliament. May each class fight for this\" [that is, for their respective seats] \"and parliament will give itself the government it sees fit.\"<br>As for \"social harmony\" — as this has been up to now — we demand \"a particular\" balance between producing classes and wish for \"the abolition of parasite classes\" such as that of \"untrained politicians\".<br>[...]'Bolshevism', cry the parasite politicians, accustomed to govern together with the highest power and their cries also alert the gentle folk, whose political judgment is chained in 'harmony'-related prejudice.<br>— 'Truth is not anarchy' — we reply.\"\n\nThe land reform that was ultimately carried out did however reflect the influence of some ideas supported by Mihalache, and was itself favorable to small holdings.\n\nMihalache became vice-president of the National Peasants' Party (PNȚ) in 1926, when the PNR and PȚ groups decided to unite in order to combat the effective monopoly the PNL had ensured after the voting of the 1923 Constitution. The new political group moderated many of its demands, and was not as adverse to industrialization as it had previously been. However, in 1928, Mihalache's voiced the party's call for a march on Bucharest, meant to topple Vintilă Brătianu's PNL cabinet: in May, large crowds gathered in Alba Iulia — despite the initial success in rallying all forces opposed to the National Liberals, the PNȚ did not capitalize on the gains, and continued instead to block activity in parliament.\n\nHe served as Minister of Agriculture in the Iuliu Maniu's government of 1928-1930 (being seconded by Armand Călinescu), then, between 1930 and 1933, he was the Minister of Internal Affairs (he also held the office of Foreign Minister between late 1930 and early 1931). In this latter capacity, Mihalache outlawed the fascist Iron Guard in January 1931 (under the premiership of Gheorghe Mironescu), following a period of violence and agitation by the movement. The measure was to prove inefficient in time, as the new cabinet allowed Corneliu Zelea Codreanu, leader of the Guard, to run in the 1931 elections on a new platform (the \"Corneliu Codreanu Grouping\").\n\nDuring the period, he also became a noted opponent of Carol II: as heir apparent, the latter had been denied the right of ascension after the war, and returned to the throne with Maniu's backing in 1930. The relations between the PNȚ and the monarch soured, however, especially after Vaida-Voevod's second cabinet fell in 1932, due to disagreement over several policies — as Minister of the Interior, Mihalache was directly involved in the dispute, as the scandal erupted when Gavrilă Marinescu, the prefect of police in Bucharest, refused to hand in his resignation, and instead called for the king's verdict. In 1935, Mihalache briefly took charge of the party upon Maniu's resignation, and steered it to the Left, charging Mihai Ralea and the PNȚ's Study Circle (Constantin Rădulescu-Motru, Mihail Ghelmegeanu, Ernest Ene, and Petre Andrei) with drafting a new party program that adapted Poporanist ideals.\n\nAfter 1938, when, faced with the rise of the Iron Guard, Carol imposed his authoritarian regime, the PNȚ party refused collaboration and merger into the National Renaissance Front. According to the leading party member Ioan Hudiță, Mihalache, together with Virgil Madgearu and Mihai Popovici, continued to display support for the king and even considered joining the Front.\n\nDuring World War II, he opposed the National Legionary State created by the Iron Guard, and complained to the Guard's rival partner, \"Conducător\" Ion Antonescu, that Horia Sima and his grouping had assumed control of his cooperative organization in Muscel County. Antonescu refused to mediate; Sima replied to Mihalache that the measure had been partly taken as compensation for the Legionaries' \"suffering at the hands of Mihalache [in 1930-1931]\", but offered to allow some of the Muscel cooperative's former administrators structure to regain their positions. Attacks and threats towards Mihalache in the Guard's press became widespread, and Mille Lefter singled him out as a former persecutor of the movement in a conference aired on Romanian Radio.\n\nFollowing Antonescu's defeat of the Guard during the Legionary Rebellion of 1941, Mihalache forwarded a congratulatory message to the former. In time, he also objected to Antonescu's Nazi Germany-allied dictatorship of (although pressured by the latter to join a War Cabinet). He did, however, support the recovery of Bessarabia from the Soviet Union during Operation Barbarossa, and offered his services as a volunteer in the Romanian Army (June 1941) — he served for only a few days, and was discharged on orders from Antonescu himself.\n\nHe eventually joined a semi-clandestine opposition, and then supported the PNȚ's entry into the underground liberation movement, as well as King Michael's pro-Allied August 1944 coup.\n\nThe appearance of the Iron Curtain and Joseph Stalin's plans for Romania singled out the PNȚ, the main supporter of cooperation with the Western Allies, as an adversary of growing Soviet influence over the country (\"see Soviet occupation of Romania\"). Consequently, he and Maniu were branded \"fascists\" by the Romanian Communist Party press, and Mihalache was especially attacked for his supposedly good relations with Antonescu; the 1941 episode was used against him during the rigged 1946 elections, when Communists prevented him from running for office based on a law forbidding candidatures of former Eastern Front volunteers. It is possible, however, that just before the elections, the PNȚ had attempted to resist and profit from a foreseen insurrection against the Petru Groza government, by forming \"Cercul Militar Professional\" (the \"Professional Military Circle\") — grouping generals and other officers, it was led by Mihalache himself.\n\nThe Communist regime which was installed in late 1947 outlawed the PNȚ altogether, alleging that Mihalache and Maniu had been trying to flee the country from the airfield in Tămădău, and had planned to give Romania a capitalist government-in-exile. Their capture (\"see Tămădău Affair\") and trial by a kangaroo court led to sentences of life imprisonment with requirements of penal labour; Mihalache, after having passed through Sighet prison, died in custody at Râmnicu Sărat prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9363768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9363768", "title": "Joseph Lerner", "text": "Joseph Lerner\n\nJoseph Lerner is a Canadian composer and political analyst. His writings cover a diverse range of subjects.\n"}
{"id": "8207381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8207381", "title": "Kostka-Napierski uprising", "text": "Kostka-Napierski uprising\n\nThe Kostka Napierski uprising was a peasant revolt in Poland in 1651.\n\nIt took place at the same time as the more important Khmelnytsky Uprising in the south-east part of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and during the Swedish preparation to invade the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nAleksander Kostka Napierski was an adventurer and officer in the Polish army. During the revolt, he acted most likely as a spy for Bohdan Khmelnytsky or the Prince of Transylvania. He recruited his forces from among some rebellious highlanders in Podhale – a mountainous region in Lesser Poland. They attacked and captured the castle of Czorsztyn in Pieniny. Napierski called on every peasant in Poland to rise and overthrow the nobles and remove them from their positions of power. His attempts to spread the revolt were totally unsuccessful. Napierski and his rebel group remained isolated in the castle, which was soon recaptured by the forces of Piotr Gembicki, bishop of Kraków. Napierski and the other leaders of the revolt were impaled.\n\nResearch conducted by Polish historian Adam Kersten has shown that many facts about Napierski and his plans are either difficult or even impossible to bring to light. It is claimed that Napierski's attempt to lead a revolt by the peasants in Lesser Poland was aimed at disorganizing the Polish defence against the advancing armies of Chmielnicki. In fact, two thousand troops were sent by the king from Ukraine to crush the rebellion. Additionally, Napierski was executed before they even reached Czorsztyn. Even without these troops, the Polish army won a decisive victory in the battle of Berestechko.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2444665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444665", "title": "Landammann", "text": "Landammann\n\nLandammann (plural \"Landamänner\"), is the German title used by the chief magistrate in certain Cantons of Switzerland and at times featured in the Head of state's style at the confederal level.\n\n\"Landammann\" or \"Ammann\" was the elected judge and leader of the Landsgemeinde.\nThe term existed in the high medieval period, and was continued in the Old Swiss Confederacy of the 14th to 18th centuries.\n\nWhile before and after other titles, generally expressing precedence, where used, the title of the Head of State of the Swiss Confederation has been:\n\nIf the office is held by a woman, she is addressed as \"Frau Landammann\" (Ms. Landammann).\nThe French version is \"Landamman\" (plural \"Landammans\"), the Italian \"Landamano\" (plural \"Landamani\")\n\nToday, \"Landammann\" still is the title of the president of the cantonal executive in the following Swiss cantons :\n\nSome Swiss towns in those cantons use the equivalent title Stadtammann for the mayor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50392641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50392641", "title": "Lauren Southern", "text": "Lauren Southern\n\nLauren Cherie Southern (born 16 June 1995) is a Canadian far-right political activist, internet personality, writer and documentary film director. She has been described as alt-right, though she has denied this. In 2015, Southern ran as a Libertarian Party candidate in the Canadian federal election. She worked for The Rebel Media until March 2017. In addition, she has written for \"Spiked\", the \"International Business Times\", and The Libertarian Republic. Southern continues to work independently and uploads videos on YouTube.\n\nIn 2017, Southern supported the white identitarian group Defend Europe opposing the action of non-governmental organizations involved in search-and-rescue operations in the Mediterranean Sea. She was detained by the Italian Coast Guard for blocking a ship embarking on a search-and-rescue mission. In March 2018, she was questioned under the UK Terrorism Act and denied entry to Britain, because of her intentions during her March visit. She said she was \"permanently banned\" from the UK, though it was later confirmed she was refused entry for specific purposes only, not banned.\n\nIn July 2018, she went on a speaking tour of Australia and jokingly called for the country to be bombed, quoting the Bible. In August 2018, her attempted speaking tour of New Zealand was unsuccessful. Auckland Council cancelled Southern's booking and blocked her from using its venues to \"stir up ethnic or religious tensions\".\n\nSouthern was born in Surrey, British Columbia. She studied political science at the University of the Fraser Valley but completed only two years and did not receive a degree. Regarding her reason for dropping out, Southern stated that it was a waste of money to pay for knowledge that she could get on her own.\n\nIn 2015, Southern was a candidate in the 2015 Canadian federal election representing the Libertarian Party in the district of Langley—Aldergrove. She was briefly removed by the party as a candidate, but was eventually reinstated with support from Breitbart News and The Rebel Media. The election was eventually won by Conservative candidate Mark Warawa. Southern finished last, having received 535 votes, or 0.9% of the total.\n\nIn June 2015 while reporting on the Vancouver SlutWalk for Rebel Media, Southern's cameraman was shoved and Southern's protest sign stating \"There Is No Rape Culture In The West\" was torn up.\n\nIn March 2016, a protester in Vancouver poured a container of urine over Southern's head while she was engaging with LGBTQ protesters at a rally in Vancouver, arguing for two human genders.\n\nSouthern was mistakenly suspended from Facebook, having criticized the site for banning several conservative commentators. She later received an email apology from Facebook saying the suspension was an \"error\".\n\nIn October 2016, Southern had her gender legally changed to male as part of a video produced for Rebel Media to show the ease of Ontario's new gender ID laws.\n\nIn 2016, Southern authored and self-published \"Barbarians: How Baby Boomers, Immigrants, and Islam Screwed My Generation\".\n\nIn January 2017, Southern posted incorrect rumours from 4chan that the Quebec City mosque shooting had been carried out by Syrian refugees; she later deleted those tweets. In March 2017, Southern announced she would be leaving Rebel Media to become an independent journalist. In the same month, she gained access to White House press briefings.\n\nIn April 2017, Southern was one of several scheduled speakers at a Patriots' Day rally in Berkeley, California. The rally led to a riot between pro-Trump demonstrators and anti-Trump counter-protesters.\n\nIn May 2017, Southern took part in an attempt organized by the identitarian group \"Génération identitare\" to block the passage of an NGO ship, the \"Aquarius\" (co-owned by SOS Mediterranée and by Doctors without Borders), which was leaving Sicily to start a search-and-rescue mission for ship-wrecked migrants off the shores of Northern Africa. Claiming that the goal of the activists \"was to stop an empty boat from going down to Libya and filling up with illegal migrants\", Southern was briefly detained by the Italian Coast Guard. NGO ships often rescue migrants and refugees, who disembark from Libyan shores on unsafe makeshift rafts, and bring them to Sicily. With regard to her actions, Southern stated that \"if the politicians won't stop the boats, we'll stop the boats.\"\n\nSouthern supported similar actions by identitarian group Defend Europe, which chartered a vessel in order to track and stop what it called collusion between NGOs and human traffickers. The group has been accused of intending to obstruct the rescue of migrants and refugees in distress at sea. In July 2017, Southern revealed that Patreon had deleted her account out of concerns about her \"raising funds in order to take part in activities that are likely to cause loss of life\". Southern denied these allegations, stating that Defend Europe's actions were likely to save lives and that none of her funding went towards the group.\n\nIn February 2018, Southern, along with Brittany Pettibone and Caolan Robertson, distributed flyers in the English town of Luton describing Allah as \"gay\".\n\nIn March 2018, Southern, Pettibone, and Pettibone's boyfriend, Martin Sellner, were all denied entry to the United Kingdom. Southern was also questioned under the Schedule 7 of the Terrorism Act 2000. Her denial of entry was due to her intentions during her March visit and on the same grounds as Pettibone and Sellner.\n\nShe said she was \"permanently banned\" from the UK. However, it was later confirmed she was instead refused entry for specific purposes only, and reports of her being banned were false.\n\nShortly before a planned speaking tour of Australia in July 2018, Australia's Department of Home Affairs denied Lauren Southern an Electronic Travel Authority visa, saying it was \"not a working visa\". She intended to charge $79 for a basic ticket and up to $749 for an \"intimate dinner\". The Australian government allowed her to enter the country once she had the correct visa. Arriving at Brisbane airport, she was wearing an \"It's OK to be white\" shirt.\n\nWhen she asked people on the street in Melbourne \"Should we kill Lauren Southern?\", many had never heard of her. A speaking event in Melbourne was opposed by more than 100 protestors.\n\nThere were no protestors at her event in Sydney, where ticket holders were notified of the venue by receiving a text on the day. The Sydney event included a $200 meet-and-greet, a $500 VIP meet-and-greet and a $750 dinner.\n\nIn Brisbane, Lauren Southern supported bombing the Australian city of Melbourne, quoting the Bible, as a joke. She was opposed by around 60 protesters.\n\nIn August 2018, Southern's attempted speaking tour of New Zealand was unsuccessful. Auckland Council cancelled her booking and blocked her from using its venues to \"stir up ethnic or religious tensions\". For agreeing with the cancellation, an MP received violent threats.\n\nThe subsequent booking of a private venue was revoked by its owners, one of whom said \"The minute I heard who it was I cancelled\". In retaliation, their venue was vandalised.\n\nThe failure to find a venue was celebrated by around 1,000 protestors, who said the planned event had nothing to do with freedom of speech. The Prime Minister said Southern's views \"are not those that are shared by this country\".\n\nSouthern and Canadian podcaster and YouTuber Stefan Molyneux were scheduled to speak in Auckland on 3 August 2018, at an Auckland Council-owned theatre. However, Auckland Live, the Council agency responsible for the theatre, cancelled the venue booking on the grounds of concerns around \"the health and safety of the presenters, staff and patrons\". The Mayor of Auckland Phil Goff then tweeted that Council venues should not be used to \"stir up ethnic or religious tensions\". He later said \"we've got no obligation at all\" to provide a venue for \"hate speech\". In response, Southern denied assertions that her views were \"hate speech\" and warned about the danger of \"progressivism\".\n\nNew Zealand Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Winston Peters and National Party leader Simon Bridges said they would have supported her right to speak, while Green Party co-leader Marama Davidson said she supported the ban. For saying so, Davidson's family was sent degrading messages of a sexual nature and death threats by supporters of Lauren Southern. Human rights lawyer Craig Tuck criticized Mayor Goff's decision as a violation of free speech, while the cancellation of Southern and Molyneux's tour was welcomed by the Auckland Peace Action activist group and the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand (FIANZ). By contrast, \"The Spinoff\" contributor Ali Shakir said that while he disagreed with many of Southern's views, he thought she and Molyneux should be welcomed to New Zealand and said that barring them damaged the country's commitment to freedom of expression and raised \"serious concerns about the process.\" Shakir also questioned FIANZ's claim to speak for all Muslims. A group called the Free Speech Coalition advocated for a judicial review of the cancellation and raised NZ$50,000 in less than 24 hours. The group's supporters included former Labour Party cabinet minister Michael Bassett, former National and ACT parties leader Don Brash, Property Institute chief executive Ashley Church, Auckland University of Technology historian Paul Moon, broadcaster Lindsay Perrigo, political commentator Chris Trotter, and New Zealand Taxpayers' Union director Jordan Williams.\n\nOn 20 July, Immigration New Zealand granted visas for Southern and Molyneux to visit New Zealand. While describing their views as \"repugnant\" and \"counter to the kind and tolerant values of the vast majority of New Zealanders\", Immigration Minister Iain Lees-Galloway cleared their entry on the grounds that the duo had met immigration character requirements including not having prior criminal convictions. He added that they were never banned from Australia or the United Kingdom as previously reported. Southern welcomed the news and tweeted that she hoped that she and Molyneux could be \"unbarred\" from their venue as well.\n\nAlistair McCylmont, a leading immigration lawyer, later said there were \"plenty\" of grounds to stop the two coming into the country. He cited the visa cancellation of a rapper in 2014 using a law usually reserved for white supremacists, and suggested the grounds of a risk to order or the public interest. \"Considering the amount of information out there in the public forum about the views held by the different people and what they've been talking, they would be plenty of grounds that could have been applied to declining visas.\" However, the minister took the view that denying entry would not be justified.\n\nOn 25 July, Southern and Molyneux cancelled their trip to New Zealand. The Free Speech Coalition said time had run out to find alternative arrangements for the pair, following the Auckland Council ban. On 26 July, Southern and Molyneux's promoter David Pellowe said that the duo would be speaking in Auckland after claiming that a new speaking venue had been found.\n\nOn 2 August, Southern and Molyneux arrived in Auckland for their speaking event on the following day. An email to attendees said the pair look forward to the day when \"ideas right of Stalin are permitted equal rights to peaceful assembly\". The speaking tour was booked at Auckland's Powerstation theatre but was cancelled shortly after the venue was revealed on social media. Owner Peter Campbell rescinded the booking, citing disruption to neighbours. Co-owner Gabrielle Mullins cited \"humanitarian issues\", adding \"The minute I heard who it was I cancelled\", \"It goes against quite a lot of things that we say\" and \"They can say whatever they want but personally I don't want it in my venue\". For refusing to host the speakers, their building was vandalised with graffiti.\n\nTāmaki Anti Fascist Action spokesperson Sina Brown-Davis said her group feared \"dehumanising depictions of indigenous people\" in New Zealand. Molyneux had called Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people \"the lowest rung of civilisation\". Brown-Davis added \"They've been quite clever framing this as a free speech issue, which they use as a smokescreen to introduce their politics of hate and division.\" In response to the cancellation, Southern blamed a \"violent and scary minority willing to make threats and commit violence\" for shutting down free speech. Roughly 1000 protestors gathered in Auckland's Aotea Square that night, celebrating the cancellation of the event, which they said had nothing to do with freedom of speech.\n\nPrime Minister Jacinda Ardern said New Zealand is \"hostile\" to the views of the speakers and \"I think you'll see from the reaction they've had from New Zealanders that their views are not those that are shared by this country, and I'm quite proud of that\". Green Party co-leader Marama Davidson added \"Aotearoa does not stand for your messages of racism, hatred and especially white supremacy\". Justice Minister Andrew Little said the speakers \"clearly have misled people\" in trying to secure the venue. TV personality Te Hamua Nikora said the pair were against multiculturalism, unlike New Zealand. The minimum ticket price for the cancelled Auckland event was $99.\n\nSouthern has been widely described as alt-right, far right and right-wing. She rejects the label \"alt-right\". The Southern Poverty Law Center has described Southern's videos as anti-feminist, xenophobic, Islamophobic, and borderline white nationalist. She is anti-multiculturalism and has called the Black Lives Matter movement a \"terrorist organisation\".\n\nSouthern said transgender people have a \"genuine delusion\" adding \"It’s body dysmorphia and that is a mental illness\". She criticised legal recognition for changing one's gender, because people doing so might be \"dishonest\".\n\nSouthern has spoken in opposition to feminism and has said that women are \"not psychologically developed to hold leadership positions\", and \"not going to be as great being CEOs\". In 2015 she attended SlutWalk and held a sign that read, \"There is no rape culture in the West.\" She also said that it was \"insane\" to focus on the issue.\n\nSouthern is against multiculturalism. She has asked whether a multicultural society would require \"witch doctors\" at medical conferences, and has claimed that \"multiculturalism will inevitably fail unless 50 per cent of the population believes in Western culture\". New Matilda reported that the core message of her 2018 speaking tour of Australia was that \"multiculturalism doesn't work\". On the tour, she caused controversy for publicly criticizing an \"Asian only\" room-share advert that she had photographed and published as evidence of the \"extremely tribalistic\" nature of immigrants; attempting to highlight the supposed failure of multiculturalism, in that it produced a form of \"segregation\".\n\nSouthern defended the American alt-right leader Richard Spencer, who said \"Hail Trump\" in a speech at a white nationalist gathering, and called for a \"peaceful\" ethnic cleansing of America. Southern said he \"is not a white supremacist, he is a white nationalist. He believes in a white ethnostate.\"\n\nSouthern has promoted the white genocide conspiracy theory. She has advocated for European countries to refuse refugees from Africa and Asia, saying that immigration would lead to white genocide, and has been labelled in media as a \"booster\" for the conspiracy at large. In 2018, Southern produced a documentary called \"Farmlands\" about the conspiracy theory in relation to post-Apartheid farm violence in South Africa. \"Farmlands\" includes claims of an impending race war in South Africa, a common talking point for white nationalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "18483287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18483287", "title": "Law enforcement organisation", "text": "Law enforcement organisation\n\nA law enforcement organization (LEO) is an organization of parties, either individuals or other organisations or both, associated with law enforcement, typically with some common interest.\n\nLaw enforcement organization is broad term, and while it includes law enforcement agencies, when used typically, is meant to specifically include organisations other than law enforcement agencies.\n\nA law enforcement agency has powers, while other law enforcement organizations do not. \n\nLaw enforcement organizations other than law enforcement agencies may be:\n\nPolice oath : prevent human disorder\n\n"}
{"id": "12203738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12203738", "title": "Levashovo Memorial Cemetery", "text": "Levashovo Memorial Cemetery\n\nLevashovo Memorial Cemetery () is a cemetery of victims of Soviet repressions during the Great Purge, at Levashovo, Saint Petersburg. Since the NKVD mass graves were opened to the public in 1989, more than 22 memorials have been erected, most notably the Moloch of Totalitarianism statue by sculptors Nina Galitskaia and Vitali Gambarov. In 2007, a memorial to Italians who died in the Soviet Gulag was added to the site.\n\nIn Russian, the area is referred to as the Levashovskaya Pustosh' (Russian: Левашовская пустошь), literally, Levashovo Wasteland. \n\nOn the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Political Repressions (October 30), ceremonies are organized at the site by the City of St. Petersburg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24041364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24041364", "title": "List of think tanks in Singapore", "text": "List of think tanks in Singapore\n\nFollowing is a list of think tanks in Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "16574879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16574879", "title": "Lukuas", "text": "Lukuas\n\nLukuas was one of the leaders of Jewish rebels during the Kitos War, in the 2nd century CE. The story of Lukuas is told by Eusebius of Caesarea.\n\nIn 115 large scale Jewish revolts, known as the Kitos War, erupted across the eastern parts of Roman Empire. In Cyrenaica, the Jewish rebels were led by one Lukuas (or Andreas), who called himself \"king\" (according to Eusebius of Caesarea). His group destroyed many temples, including those to Hecate, Jupiter, Apollo, Artemis, and Isis, as well as the civil structures that were symbols of Rome, including the Caesareum, the basilica, and the public baths.\n\nLukuas then moved towards Alexandria, entered and set fire to the city. Alexandria had been abandoned by the Roman troops in Egypt under the leadership of governor Marcus Rutilius Lupus. The pagan temples and the tomb of Pompey were destroyed. Trajan sent new troops under the \"praefectus praetorio\" Quintus Marcius Turbo, but Egypt and Cyrenaica were pacified only in autumn 117.\n\nIn the aftermath, Lukuas fled to Roman Judea. Marcius Turbo pursued him and sentenced to death the brothers Julian and Pappus, who had been key leaders in the rebellion. Lusius Quietus, the conqueror of the Jews of Mesopotamia, was now in command of the Roman army in Judea, and laid siege to Lydda, where the rebel Jews had gathered under the leadership of Julian and Pappus. The distress became so great that the patriarch Rabban Gamaliel II, who was shut up there and died soon afterwards, permitted fasting even on Ḥanukkah. Other rabbis condemned this measure. Lydda was next taken and many of the Jews were executed; the \"slain of Lydda\" are often mentioned in words of reverential praise in the Talmud. Pappus and Julian were among those executed by the Romans in the same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54388765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54388765", "title": "Malcolm Walker (businessman)", "text": "Malcolm Walker (businessman)\n\nSir Malcolm Conrad Walker (CBE) (born February 1946) is the founder, chairman and chief executive of Iceland Foods Ltd. He was made a knight bachelor in the 2017 Queen's Birthday Honours for services to retailing, entrepreneurship and charity.\n\nIn May 2017, he gave £50,000 to the Conservative Party.\n"}
{"id": "26352315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26352315", "title": "Maris Vinovskis", "text": "Maris Vinovskis\n\nMaris A. Vinovskis is an American academic and historian at the University of Michigan and a leading authority on U.S. social and family history. He is the A. M. and H. P. Bentley Professor of History and a Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy. Vinovskis acts as a Senior Research Scientist in the Institute of Social Research. He is a former chairman of the Department of History.\n\nVinovskis holds a Ph.D. from Harvard University. He has received a Guggenheim fellowship and was elected to the National Academy of Education, the International Academy of Education, and President of the History of Education Society.\n\nIn 1978, Vinovskis was the Deputy Staff Director to the U.S. House Select Committee on Population and served as a consultant on population and adolescent pregnancy issues in the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare in the early 1980s. During both the George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton administrations, he worked as a Research Advisor to the Assistant Secretary of the Office of Educational Research and Improvement (OERI) on questions of educational research and policy. Vinovskis was a member of the congressionally mandated Independent Review Panels for Goals 2000 and No Child Left Behind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "262617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262617", "title": "Members of the Situationist International", "text": "Members of the Situationist International\n\nList of people that, at different times, have been members of the Situationist International:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33526937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33526937", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Czech Republic)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Czech Republic)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture (Czech language: \"Ministerstvo kultury České republiky\") of the Czech Republic was established in 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "31532401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31532401", "title": "Natural Gas Act of 1938", "text": "Natural Gas Act of 1938\n\nThe Natural Gas Act of 1938 was the first occurrence of the United States federal government regulating the natural gas industry. It was focused on regulating the rates charged by interstate natural gas transmission companies. In the years prior to the passage of the Act, concern arose about the monopolistic tendencies of the transmission companies and the fact that they were charging higher than competitive prices. The passage of the Act gave the Federal Power Commission (FPC) control over the regulation of interstate natural gas sales. Later on, the FPC was dissolved and became the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). FERC continues to regulate the natural gas industry to this day.\n\nRegulation in the natural gas market has been in place since the very beginnings of the industry. Originally in the mid-1800s, natural gas was manufactured out of coal, and delivered locally in the same area in which it was produced. Local governments saw the monopolistic tendencies of the market and began to enforce regulations. It was decided that there would be one distribution network but the rates that could be charged would be regulated by the local governments.\n\nIn the 1900s, natural gas was not only used in the locations it was produced, it began to be shipped between municipalities. Intrastate pipelines between cities began to develop and local governments no longer had the authority to regulate rates. The solution to this problem was to enlist state level public utilities commissions to oversee regulation.\n\nIn the years to follow, new technology finally allowed interstate transportation of natural gas. This brought more problems to the ease of regulation. Between the years of 1911 and 1928, states attempted to regulate many of these interstate pipelines. However, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that state oversight of these pipelines violated the interstate commerce clause of the U.S. Constitution. This left a large gap for monopolistic business practices to occur in natural gas transmission.\n\nIn 1935, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued a report which voiced its concern with the market power of natural gas utilities. Congress then passed the Public Utility Holding Company Act (PUHCA) to try to limit the natural gas holding companies power. However, this act still did not cover the regulation of interstate sales.\n\nIn 1938, the United States Congress passed the Natural Gas Act in order to take control of interstate natural gas transmission. This was the first time the federal government became involved in regulating rates of interstate transmission. The act gave the Federal Power Commission (FPC), a government agency, jurisdiction over regulation. It was the job of the FPC to regulate the rates that transmission companies charged. The act required that companies had to obtain a \"certificate of public convenience and necessity\" from the Federal Power Commission before they could make an interstate sale of natural gas. These certificates set the maximum prices natural gas could be sold for. This meant that if gas flowed from one state to another where it was sold to a gas distribution company, the sale by the pipeline to the distributor would need a certificate. However, the final sale to retail customers were exempt from the law.\n\nAlthough the Natural Gas Act regulated both the transportation and sale of gas in interstate commerce, the production and gathering of gas was exempt from federal regulation. Oil companies claimed that because production and gathering was exempt, any sales that took place at the wellhead or along the gathering lines between the oil company that owned the well and the pipeline company was also exempt from Natural Gas Act regulation. The producers wanted to charge a wellhead price based on market forces, while consumer groups argued that the Natural Gas Act intended that both producers and pipelines should be limited to cost-based rate regulation, so that the final price paid by consumers would represent only the cost of producing, transporting and distributing the gas.\n\nIn \"Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Wisconsin\", the Supreme Court held that the sale of natural gas at the wellhead was indeed subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act. The case resulted in federal price controls on wellhead gas prices for the next 40 years. The act also specified that \"no new interstate pipeline could be built to deliver natural gas into a market already served by another pipeline.\" In 1942, these powers went on to cover any new transmission lines as well. Approval of the FPC was needed before a company could build an interstate transmission line. The act was passed to control the monopolistic tendencies of the market in which companies previously had the power to charge higher than competitive prices. In 1977, the FPC dissolved and the authority to regulate natural gas was transferred to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).\n\nIn 1920, the FPC was established by congress to coordinate hydroelectric projects under federal control. Early on, the FPC was under joint administration of the Secretary of War, Interior, and Agriculture while the FPC only had an Executive Secretary. All of their other personnel was borrowed from these other departments. This mixture of leadership often resulted in conflicting mandates and made it difficult to design a consistent energy policy. To resolve this, in 1928 Congress voted the give the FPC enough funds to hire their own staff. In 1930, the Federal Power Act established a bipartisan commission to run the FPC. In 1938, the Natural Gas Act gave FPC jurisdiction over interstate natural gas pipelines and wholesale sales. In 1938, the Natural Gas Act gave FPC jurisdiction over interstate natural gas pipelines and wholesale sales. In 1942, this jurisdiction was expanded to cover the licensing of more natural gas facilities. In 1954, the Supreme Court decision in \"Phillips v. Wisconsin\" extended FPC jurisdiction over all wellhead sales of natural gas in interstate commerce.\n\nCongress passed the U.S. Department of Energy Organization Act in 1977, which consolidated various energy-related agencies into a Department of Energy. Congress insisted that a separate independent regulatory body be retained, and the FPC was renamed the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, preserving its independent status \"within\" the Department. In 1978, FERC was given additional responsibilities for harmonizing the regulation of wellhead gas sales in both the intrastate and interstate markets. In 1983, Congress ended federal regulation of wellhead natural gas prices. After this decision, FERC looked to increase competition in the natural gas industry.\n\nThe Energy Policy Act of 2005 expanded FERC's authority to impose mandatory reliability standards on the bulk transmission system and to impose penalties on entities that manipulate the electricity and natural gas markets. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 gave FERC additional responsibilities as outlined in FERC's Top Priorities and updated Strategic Plan. As part of that responsibility, FERC:\n\nThe Natural Gas Act of 1938 had an enormous impact on the future of not only the interstate natural gas market, but the U.S. energy policy and regulation. The natural gas industry has undergone tremendous change since 1938, and pipeline companies no longer function as resellers of gas to local distribution companies (LDCs), the ideas behind the act still impact natural gas regulation to this day. Concern about market power continues to be a key driver of natural gas regulation and monitoring of the market.\n\nChronology of amendments to the Natural Gas Act of 1938.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8919712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8919712", "title": "Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship", "text": "Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship\n\n\"Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship\" is an essay by the American academic Noam Chomsky. It was first published as part of Chomsky's \"American Power and the New Mandarins\". Parts of the essay were delivered as a lecture at New York University in March 1968, as part of Albert Schweitzer Lecture Series. The first third of the essay, \"The Menace of Liberal Scholarship\" by Noam Chomsky in \"The New York Review of Books\", January 2, 1969, was taken \"almost verbatim\" from this essay.\n\nIn \"Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship\" Noam Chomsky argues that, during the Vietnam War, the liberal intelligentsia provided self-serving arguments in their discussion and analysis of the war, instead of objectively discussing the topic; that they used ideology to legitimize U.S. commitments to autocratic rule and intervention in Asia. Chomsky argues that there was no end of ideology, as many scholars opined, but rather that it was an elite ideology that all elites and scholars could agree upon. Chomsky argues that the conservative, moderate, and liberal intelligentsia all had an elite, counter-revolutionary, bias in their writing, but he focuses on the liberal scholars. As an additional example to the Vietnam War, Noam Chomsky looks at liberal scholarship which covered the Spanish Civil War in which the same lack of objectivity and the same counter-revolutionary subordination can be seen.\n\nThe essay consists of three parts. Part I focuses on the Vietnam War and the increasing role of intellectuals, or specialists, in government and public and foreign policy. Part II focuses on the Spanish Civil War. He contrasts the liberal-communist version of the war with that of other sources including anarchists' and first-hand accounts. Part III is a conclusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "32136277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32136277", "title": "Regional human rights regimes", "text": "Regional human rights regimes\n\nRegional human rights regimes are relatively independently coherent human rights sub-regimes that are nested within the larger frame work of International human rights practice. Three principal regional human rights instruments can be identified, the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, the American Convention on Human Rights (the Americas) and the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe African Union (AU) is a supranational union consisting of fifty-three African states. Established in 2001, the AU's purpose is to help secure Africa's democracy, human rights, and a sustainable economy, especially by bringing an end to intra-African conflict and creating an effective common market.\n\nThe African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights is the region's principal human rights instrument and emerged under the aegis of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) (since replaced by the African Union). The intention to draw up the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights was announced in 1979 and the Charter was unanimously approved at the OAU's 1981 Assembly. Pursuant to its Article 63 (whereby it was to \"come into force three months after the reception by the Secretary General of the instruments of ratification or adherence of a simple majority\" of the OAU's member states), the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights came into effect on October 21, 1986 – in honour of which October 21 was declared \"African Human Rights Day.\"\n\nThe African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR) is a quasi-judicial organ of the African Union tasked with promoting and protecting human rights and collective (peoples') rights throughout the African continent as well as interpreting the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights and considering individual complaints of violations of the Charter. The Commission has three broad areas of responsibility:\n\n\nIn pursuit of these goals, the Commission is mandated to \"collect documents, undertake studies and researches on African problems in the field of human and peoples, rights, organise seminars, symposia and conferences, disseminate information, encourage national and local institutions concerned with human and peoples' rights and, should the case arise, give its views or make recommendations to governments\" (Charter, Art. 45).\n\nWith the creation of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights (under a protocol to the Charter which was adopted in 1998 and entered into force in January 2004), the Commission will have the additional task of preparing cases for submission to the Court's jurisdiction. In a July 2004 decision, the AU Assembly resolved that the future Court on Human and Peoples' Rights would be integrated with the African Court of Justice.\n\nThe Court of Justice of the African Union is intended to be the \"principal judicial organ of the Union\" (Protocol of the Court of Justice of the African Union, Article 2.2). Although it has not yet been established, it is intended to take over the duties of the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights, as well as act as the supreme court of the African Union, interpreting all necessary laws and treaties. The Protocol establishing the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights entered into force in January 2004 but its merging with the Court of Justice has delayed its establishment. The Protocol establishing the Court of Justice will come into force when ratified by 15 countries.\n\nThe Organization of American States (OAS) is an international organization, headquartered in Washington, D.C., United States. Its members are the thirty-five independent states of the Americas. Over the course of the 1990s, with the end of the Cold War, the return to democracy in Latin America, and the thrust toward globalization, the OAS made major efforts to reinvent itself to fit the new context. Its stated priorities now include the following:\n\n\nThe Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (the IACHR) is an autonomous organ of the Organization of American States, also based in Washington, D.C. Along with the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, based in San José, Costa Rica, it is one of the bodies that comprise the inter-American system for the promotion and protection of human rights. The IACHR is a permanent body which meets in regular and special sessions several times a year to examine allegations of human rights violations in the hemisphere. Its human rights duties stem from three documents:\n\n\nThe Inter-American Court of Human Rights was established in 1979 with the purpose of enforcing and interpreting the provisions of the American Convention on Human Rights. Its two main functions are thus adjudicatory and advisory. Under the former, it hears and rules on the specific cases of human rights violations referred to it. Under the latter, it issues opinions on matters of legal interpretation brought to its attention by other OAS bodies or member states.\n\nThere are no Asia-wide organisations or conventions to promote or protect human rights. Countries vary widely in their approach to human rights and their record of human rights protection.\n\nThe Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a geo-political and economic organization of 10 countries located in Southeast Asia, formed in 1967 by Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand. The organisation now also includes Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia. Its aims include the acceleration of economic growth, social progress, cultural development among its members, and the promotion of regional peace. ASEAN established in 2009–10 an Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights. In November 2012, ASEAN adopted the ASEAN Human Rights Declaration, but, as of 2015, still has no human rights convention or court.\n\nThe Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (CCASG) is a trade bloc involving the six Arab states of the Persian Gulf, with many economic and social objectives. Created in 1981, the Council comprises the Persian Gulf states of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nThe Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) is a body created in 2002 to promote Asian cooperation at a continental level, helping to integrate the previously separate regional organizations of political or economical cooperation. The main objectives of the ACD are as follows:\n\n\nNone of the above organisations have a specific mandate to promote or protect human rights, but each has some human rights related economic, social and cultural objectives.\n\nThe Council of Europe, founded in 1949, is the oldest organisation working for European integration. It is an international organisation with legal personality recognised under public international law and has observer status with the United Nations. The seat of the Council of Europe is in Strasbourg, France. The Council of Europe is responsible for both the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights. These institutions bind the Council's members to a code of human rights which, though strict, are more lenient than those of the United Nations charter on human rights. The Council promotes the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the European Social Charter. Membership is open to all European states which seek European integration, accept the principle of the rule of law and are able and willing to guarantee democracy, fundamental human rights and freedoms.\n\nThe Council of Europe is separate from the European Union, but the latter is expected to accede to the European Convention and potentially the Council itself. The EU also has a separate human rights document, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.\n\nHowever, unlike its member states, the European Union itself has not yet joined the Convention on Human Rights, as of 2011.\n\nThe European Convention on Human Rights has since 1950 defined and guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. All 47 member states of the Council of Europe have signed the Convention and are therefore under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In order to prevent torture and inhuman or degrading treatment (Article 3 of the Convention), the Committee for the Prevention of Torture was established.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights is the only international court with jurisdiction to deal with cases brought by individuals (rather than states). In early 2010 the court had a backlog of over 120,000 cases and a multi-year waiting list.\n\nThere are no regional approaches or agreements on human rights for Oceania, but most countries have a well-regarded human rights record. However, incorporated into the 2005 Pacific Plan, is the commitment to a plan of \"defence and promotion of human rights\" in the region. The idea of an institutionalized regional human rights framework is ongoing, with an objective to establish an ombudsman and security structures that goes beyond the Pacific Islands Forum.\n\n"}
{"id": "26016093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26016093", "title": "Silkville, Kansas", "text": "Silkville, Kansas\n\nSilkville is a ghost town in Williamsburg Township, Franklin County, Kansas, United States. Its elevation is 1,161 feet (354 m), and it is located at (38.4500149, -95.4891477), along U.S. Route 50 southwest of Williamsburg.\n\nThe settlement was founded in the late 1800s by a Frenchman named Ernest de Boissière, who believed in Fourierian utopian socialism. Silkville was a sericulture-based settlement, and remuneration was based what each settler could produce. Silkville's silk was praised at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia in 1876, but loss of settlers and difficulty in selling the silk resulted in the settlements collapse. Today, only a few buildings remain.\n\nSilkville was established in 1870 by a Frenchman named Ernest de Boissière. Born in 1810 in France to a noble family, Boissière espoused radical political opinions heavily inspired by the specific socialist philosophy of Charles Fourier, which became anathematic when the authoritarian Napoleon III consolidated power in 1851. Consequently, Boissière was forced into exile and moved to America, where he first settled in the port city of New Orleans. In this new city, he set up a shipping line. However, because he poured some of his money into supporting orphaned black children, he garnered heavy criticism from wealthy whites; desiring to escape the hostile opinions of his neighbors, Boissière was left with no choice but to leave the American South. He then decided to move to Franklin County, Kansas, an area he believed was well-suited to the establishment of a utopic community. In 1869, Boissière purchased between 3000 and 3500 acres of land in the county from the Kansas Educational Association of the Methodist Episcopal Church and went about setting up his intentional settlement.\n\nAfter operating under myriad names, including Kansas Cooperative Farm, Prairie Home, and Valeton, Boissière's colony came to be known as Silkville, as it was intended to be a Fourierian commune that survived via silk production. The first building that Boissière constructed was a massive abode that others in the area referred to simply as the \"Chateau\". For a time the largest manor in the state, this house boasted sixty-rooms that could comfortably hold between 50100 people. The building was also home to a huge library filled with 2,500 books, tomes, and other volumes. Boissière also erected a stone cocoonery and planted thousands of mulberry trees to feed his silkworms. These groves were later joined by hundreds of peach, apple and ailanthus trees, as well as over a thousand grape vines. To educate the children of the colony, Boissière established a school that, according to author and historian Daniel Fitzgerald, was \"the first in Kansas in which the instructors attempted to teach the contemporary world literature of the day\".\n\nBoissière structured his colony so that remuneration was based what each settler could produce, thereby rewarding the efficient labor of assiduous workers. Upon its founding, 40 French emigrants settled at the colony, each paying 100 dollars to be a part of the commune. In 1875, Charles Sears, a friend of Boissière's, moved to Silkville, and his arrival was a boon for the settlement's sericulture. The following year, Boissière's silk was lauded at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. Despite this critical reception, Silkville struggled to make money, largely because it was competing with comparatively cheaper fabrics imported from Asia, and because Boissière refused to use cost-effective American dyes. Over the years, many members left. (Most, when they had arrived in America, spoke only French but soon learned English and began to assimilate into mainstream society.) Many immigrants also learned that for 100 dollarsthe amount that they had pledged to live in the settlementthey could buy their own land. To compensate, Boissière shifted production towards butter, cheese, and the raising of livestock. While this kept the settlement afloat for a few years, Silkville eventually collapsed and its members dispersed. Boissière returned to France in 1892 (dying two years later), and his property was given to the Independent Order of Odd Fellows for use as an orphanage. Financial reasons compelled the Order to give up the property, and after a long court battle, it passed into the hands of lawyers from Topeka. In 1916, a fire hollowed out the \"Chateau\", only part of which was ever reconstructed.\n\nToday, little remains of Silkville, and only three stone structures survive: the settlement's school house, and two barns. The original chateau that Boissiere constructedwhich, at the time of its construction cost US$10,000was destroyed in the aforementioned fire, and a modern home was built over the west end of the ruin, utilizing some of the stone from the original. One of the modern day barns was once the settlement's cocoonery, although it was reduced to a one-level building after a tornado damaged the top floor. In 1972, these buildings were added to the National Register of Historic Places because of their significance in the history of Kansas. The aspects of the community seen as most significant historically were its nature as an intentional community and its practice of sericulture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38499307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38499307", "title": "Socialist-oriented market economy", "text": "Socialist-oriented market economy\n\nThe socialist-oriented market economy (Vietnamese: \"Kinh tế thị trường theo định hướng xã hội chủ nghĩa\") is the official title given to the current economic system in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. It is described as a multi-sectoral market economy where the state sector plays a decisive role in directing economic development, with the eventual long-term goal of developing socialism.\n\nThe socialist-oriented market economy is a product of the Đổi Mới economic reforms which led to the replacement of the centrally-planned economy with a market-based mixed economy based on state-owned industry. These reforms were undertaken to allow Vietnam to integrate with the global market economy.\n\nThe Đổi Mới economic reforms were initiated by the Communist Party of Vietnam in 1986 during the party's 6th National Congress. These reforms allowed for private ownership of small enterprises alongside state-run and collectively-owned enterprises. Additionally, these reforms also introduced a greater role for market forces for coordinating economic activity between enterprises and government agencies.\n\nThe economic reforms aimed to restructure the Vietnamese economy away from Soviet-type central planning and towards a mixed economy intended to be a transitional phase in the development of a socialist economy. The goal of this economic system is to improve the productive forces of the economy, developing a firm technical-material base for the foundation of socialism, and to enable Vietnam to better integrate with the world economy.\n\nThe socialist-oriented market economy is a multi-sectoral commodity economy regulated by the market, consisting of a mixture of private, collective and state ownership of the means of production. However, the state sector and collectively-owned enterprises form the backbone of the economy. It is similar to the Chinese socialist market economy in that many forms of ownership, including cooperative/collective enterprises, communal, private and state ownership models co-exist in the economy, but the state sector plays a decisive role.\n\nIn contrast to the Chinese model (dubbed the socialist market economy), the Vietnamese system is not officially viewed as a form of socialism or even market socialism and it is instead considered to be a multi-sectoral market economy that is in the process of undergoing a long-term transition towards socialism, with the view that socialism can only emerge once Vietnam's productive forces are developed to a point where socialism becomes a technical possibility.\n\nThe socialist-oriented market economy has aroused less controversy than the Chinese model within its perspective government because private business plays a smaller role in the Vietnamese model, with most of the means of production remaining firmly under either collective or state ownership and administration.\n\nThe Communist Party of Vietnam maintains that the socialist-oriented market economy is consistent with the Marxist view of economic development, being a key step in achieving economic growth and modernization while being able to co-exist in the modern global market economy. The Communist Party of Vietnam has re-affirmed its commitment to the development of a socialist economy with its Đổi Mới reforms.\n\nThis economic model is defended from a Marxist perspective, which states that a planned socialist economy can only emerge after first developing the basis for socialism through the establishment of a market economy and commodity-exchange economy and that socialism will only emerge after this stage has exhausted its historical necessity and gradually transforms itself into socialism. Proponents of this model argue that the economic system of the Soviet Union and its satellite states attempted to go from a natural economy to a planned economy by decree without passing through the necessary market economy phase of development.\n\nProponents of socialist market economies distinguish themselves from market socialists with the view of market socialism that markets are a central feature of socialism and that markets are the most feasible mechanism for a socialist economy.\n"}
{"id": "349977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349977", "title": "Soul City, North Carolina", "text": "Soul City, North Carolina\n\nSoul City, North Carolina was a planned community first proposed in 1969 by Floyd McKissick, a civil rights leader and director of the Congress of Racial Equality. Funded by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, (HUD) as one of thirteen model city projects under the Urban Growth and New Community Development Act, it was located on in Warren County near Manson-Axtell Road and Soul City Boulevard in Norlina, North Carolina, 27563. According to McKissick, \"Soul City was an idea before the movement. Soul City actually started after World War II, in my mind. And it was first talked about when we saw the use of the Marshall Plan, and all like that. See, I've always been in real estate and I've always been a businessman.\"\n\nSoul City was intended to be a new town built from the ground up and open to all races, but placed emphasis on providing opportunities for minorities and the poor. It was also designed to as a means of reversing out-migration of minorities and the poor to urban areas; the opportunities Soul City provided, such as jobs, education, housing, training, and other social services would help lessen the migration.\n\nThe city was planned to contain three villages housing 18,000 people by 1989. Soul City was projected to have 24,000 jobs and 44,000 inhabitants by 2004. It was intended to include industry and retail development for jobs, as well as residential housing and services. The plan was for residents to work, get schooling, shop, receive health care, and worship in town. Soul City was the first new town to be organized by African-American businesses. McKissick envisioned Soul City as a community where all races could live in harmony.\n\nIn 1972, the city received a grant of $14 million from HUD based on plans of attracting industry as well as developing residential housing. By 1975, the city had few homes and only one industrial building, \"Soultech 1\".\n\nThe city failed to reach its initial ambitions. Lawsuits and investigations into the use of funds by the Soul City Company, the city's developers, resulted in foreclosure in 1979 despite eventually being cleared by a Government Accountability Office audit. In 1980, 35 housing units, a clinic, a tennis court, and a pool had been developed. About 150 people were employed in the city.\n\nSince that time, the city has grown somewhat, but not to the size originally planned. The former Soultech 1 building was purchased by the adjoining Warren County Correctional Institution for expansion. A number of new homes have been constructed.\n\nRepresentative Eva Clayton lived in and worked for Soul City Company before being appointed to a state position in community development, and later being elected to the United States Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "2876607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2876607", "title": "Sub-Divisional Magistrate (India)", "text": "Sub-Divisional Magistrate (India)\n\nA Sub-Divisional Magistrate is a title which is sometimes given to the head official of a district subdivision, an administrative officer that is sometimes below the level of district, depending on a country's government structure. SDM is generally an officer of PCS ranking. Each district is divided into tehsil. It is empowered by tax inspector, Collector magistrate. All subdivisions (tehsils) are under the charge of SDM (Sub Divisional Magistrate).\n\nIn India, a sub-divisional magistrate has several executive and magisterial roles to play under Criminal Procedure Code 1973.\n\nRevenue functions involve maintenance of land records, conduct of revenue cases, carrying out of demarcation and mutations, settlement operations and functioning as custodian of public land. Sub Divisional Magistrates are designated as Assistant Collectors and Revenue Assistants and are primarily responsible for day to day revenue work. The subordinate revenue staff consisting of Girdavars, Kanungos and Patwaries are supervised by Tehsildars who are involved in field level revenue activities and mutations. They are also empowered to issue various kinds of statutory certificates including SC/ST & OBC, Domicile, Nationality etc. Registration of Property documents, sale deeds, power of attorneys, share certificates and all other documents which need to be compulsorily registered as per law is made at Sub Registrar's Office which are nine in numbers. Deputy Commissioners are Registrars for their respective districts and exercise supervisory control over the Sub Registrars.\n\nSub Divisional Magistrates exercise powers of Executive Magistrates. In this role they are responsible for operating preventive Sections of Code of Criminal Procedure. They also carry out enquiries in cases of unnatural deaths of women within seven years of marriage and issue directions to the Police for registration of case, if required.\n\nSub Divisional Magistrates are empowered to conduct enquiries into custodial deaths including deaths in Police Lock Up, Jails, Women Homes etc. The Officers of this Department are also expected to act as eyes and ears of the Government and conduct enquiries into all major accidents including major fires incidents, riots and natural calamities etc.\n\nThis department is given the primary responsibility for relief and rehabilitation operations in any calamity whether natural or man-made. It is also responsible for coordinating and implementing disaster management plan for natural and chemical disasters and awareness generation programme on disaster preparedness is being carried out with the assistance of United Nations Development\n\n"}
{"id": "17931842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17931842", "title": "Terrorism Suppression Act 2002", "text": "Terrorism Suppression Act 2002\n\nThe Terrorism Suppression Act 2002 is New Zealand counter-terrorism legislation passed under the Clark-led Labour government. Enacted following the September 11 attacks, the Act was designed to better address contemporary terrorism issues, both domestically and abroad. As of April 2015, the Act has not been formally used in prosecution; however there have been several failed attempts by the Crown to do so. Many individuals and organisations have however been designated as \"Terrorist entities\" under the Act's provisions, in line with UN Security Council designations. The Act was amended in 2007.\n\nNew Zealand, considered a relatively 'safe' country, has experienced few terrorist incidents in its short history. Prior to 2001, incidents included the bombings of the Huntly rail bridge in 1951, the Whanganui Computer Centre in 1982, the Wellington Trades Hall in 1984 and the Greenpeace vessel \"The Rainbow Warrior\" in 1985. Contrary to the popular association between terrorism and insurgency, the latter two of the four were perpetrated by state or state-aligned actors, as noted by Omar Hamed. Due to these incidents, New Zealand had already established prior to this act, \"A comprehensive legislative and substantive counter-terrorist framework...\" However the growth of international terrorism in recent years, alluded to by then Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Phil Goff in the bill's first reading, gave rise to the need to introduce new, \"comprehensive\" anti-terror legislation. The examples he gave were the Lockerbie bombing, the World Trade Centre bombing and the Nairobi embassy attack.\n\nGoff introduced the Terrorism (bombings and financing) bill to parliament on 3 May 2001. Seen by many as simply the enactment of two recent international conventions, the bill was considered unremarkable and garnered widespread lukewarm support. The bill was then sent to the Foreign Affairs, Defence and Trade select committee for review and submissions.\n\nThe day of the attacks, a special ministerial statement session was held at the beginning of parliament, in which Deputy Prime Minister Jim Anderton, amongst others, gave their condolences for those killed, with Anderton moving a motion to express New Zealand's \"shock and horror\" at the events. What followed was a dramatic shift in pace at the select committee level, with many submitters feeling that they did not have enough time to review and make submissions on the increasing amendments that the committee was making in the wake of the attacks.\nProponents of the bill claimed that this urgency was a matter of necessity given the threat posed by terrorism, however opponents claimed that this legislative process eroded the public's right to proper consultation. For instance in its submission on the bill the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (Aotearoa), an organisation with consultative status with the United Nations, claimed to be, \"dismayed at the extremely short length of time\" and did not, \"consider such a time period to be sufficient for...such a complex, and extreme, piece of legislation.\" This was echoed in the submission by the Human Rights Commission, stating that, \"There has been limited opportunity for public discussion and preparation of submissions.\" Nonetheless, the New Zealand government, following several other governments around the world, broadened its own powers in the bill. Greener-Barcham claims that this was in order, \"To be part of a broader anti-terrorist effort\" and to, \"Strengthen ties with 'like-minded states'\" following the September 11 attacks and President Bush's call to arms. This shift in mentality was reflected in the bill's renaming from the Terrorism (Bombing and Financing) bill to the Terrorism Suppression bill.\n\nDue to the alterations made in the select committee stage, the bill became hotly debated during the committee of the whole house. For example, Green Party Member of Parliament Keith Locke proposed (unsuccessfully) an amendment which would have changed the bill's name to the, \"Civil Liberties Reduction\" bill. Despite strong dissent from the Green Party, the bill passed its third reading on 8 October 2002 with multi-party support and 106 votes in favour, with only the 9 Green votes against. The bill received royal assent and became an act on 17 October 2002.\n\nPart 1, \"Preliminary Provisions,\" deals with the purpose of the act and its interpretation.\n\nPart 2, \"Suppression of Terrorism,\" forms the substantive part of the act's offences. It also deals with some of the other most significant aspects of the act, the designation of terrorist entities, organisations and individuals, in sections 20-42. It creates the offences of:\n\nPart 3, \"Miscellaneous provisions,\" deals primarily with the obligations on the New Zealand attorney general. These include to:\n\nThe penalties within the act are severe, with most offences carrying either 14 years or life imprisonment (the harshest penalty available in New Zealand).\n\nIn October 2007, the NZ Police carried out several raids across New Zealand and arrested 17 individuals, charging them under the Terror Suppression Act for involvement in so-called \"military style training camps.\" For the prosecutions to go ahead the attorney general's consent under section 67 of the act was required. Under delegated authority from then Attorney General Michael Cullen, then solicitor general David Collins announced on 8 November 2007 that he was:\n\nAs a result of this decision, the charges under the act were dropped as were any form of prosecution of the vast majority of those arrested. Only firearms charges against four of the accused were eventually successful. Because of Collin's criticism that the act was, \"Unnecessarily complex\" and, \"Incoherent\" he recommended the act be sent to the law commission for review.\n\nFollowing the 2007 raids, the government introduced a major overhaul of the act (an amendment bill was already before parliament). The amendment was to correct inconsistencies with UN and UN Security Council requirements and replace the role of the High Court in extending terrorist designations with the prime minister. It also introduced new \"nuclear material\" provisions. Of most significance was the amendment's redefining of several of the offences in the act:\nIn doing so, the threshold to commit either offence was considerably lowered, in large part to correct the issues highlighted by the solicitor general. The Terrorism Suppression Amendment Act 2007 came into force on 19 November 2007.\n\nThe Act as a whole has been criticised by some as placing too much power in the hands of the executive. Whereas the court formerly made findings of fact, in regards to the designation of terrorist entities the responsibility has been given to the prime minister. Such a designation carries with it strict penalties under the act in terms of association and membership. Some have claimed that this may lead to the act being used politically to quell dissidents rather than actual terrorists. Human rights groups have also raised concerns over whether convictions based on a wrongful designation will nevertheless remain upheld. The most recent periodic review of the act (in line with the review regime within the act) was cancelled in 2013 by then Justice Minister Judith Collins. Green Party co-leader Russel Norman claims this is because the government \"is unwilling to risk further public scrutiny of the state's search and surveillance powers.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28648380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28648380", "title": "TheBlaze", "text": "TheBlaze\n\nTheBlaze is an American conservative news and entertainment network available on television, radio, and the Internet that was founded by talk radio personality Glenn Beck, based in Irving, Texas. TheBlaze has studios and offices based in the Las Colinas urban district in Irving and Los Angeles.\n\nThe network is available on regional cable providers throughout the United States, on Verizon Fios channel 112, on Dish Network channel 212, on the Roku Device, on Sling TV, and is available internationally on its own online streaming service. The live audio stream is available on iHeartRadio and both the audio stream and live television stream are available on TheBlaze app, which is on the iPhone and on Android through Google Play.\n\nAs of October 1, 2014, TheBlaze was available on 77 television providers, with eleven of those being in the top 25 nationwide.\n\nBeck spawned Mercury Radio Arts in 2002, naming it after the Orson Welles seminal Mercury Theatre, which produced live theatrical broadcasts during the 1930s. The company produces all of Beck's productions, including his eponymous radio show, books, and live stage shows, and his official website.\n\nOn August 31, 2010, three days after his Restoring Honor rally at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C., Beck launched the \"TheBlaze\" website, describing it as an alternative to \"mainstream media outlets\", which he said are \"distorting facts to fit rigid agendas,\" he said \"TheBlaze\" will feature \"breaking news, original reporting, insightful opinions, and engaging videos about the stories that matter most\" and that \"we will examine our culture, deal with matters of faith and family, and we won't be afraid of a history lesson.\" The site was reportedly modeled after \"The Huffington Post\", and has been compared accordingly by Matt DeLong of the \"Washington Post\" and Steve Krakauer of \"Mediaite\".\n\nBeck announced the creation of an online-only network that would replace Insider Extreme as a result of his Fox News departure on June 7, 2011. On September 12, 2011, Beck launched GBTV (Glenn Beck TV) as an exclusive internet streaming network, produced and operated by Mercury Radio Arts. GBTV would air a television adaptation of his radio show, his television show, and other original programming, including \"Real News from TheBlaze\", a nightly news program hosted by former CNN personality Amy Holmes. On June 18, 2012, Mercury Radio Arts announced the consolidation of all of its outlets under the \"TheBlaze\" brand, thus renaming the internet television station from GBTV to TheBlaze.\n\nIn 2012, Dish Network placed TheBlaze on its channel lineup. As a result of the \"Get TheBlaze\" campaign (a movement led by supporters to have other supporters call their cable or satellite television provider and ask them to carry the channel), several smaller, regional cable operators also have recently picked up TheBlaze—including Cablevision (also known as Optimum TV – Channel 828), a major cable provider in the New York metropolitan area.\n\nBetsy Morgan was named CEO of \"TheBlaze\" on December 9, 2014, replacing Chris Balfe, who had been CEO since the beginning. Morgan left the company on in June 2015. Chief Revenue Officer Kraig Kitchin replaced Morgan until he resigned in January 2016, taking the position of Interim Head of Sales and being replaced by Stewart Padveen, a digital startup entrepreneur, who resigned in February 2017, after completing a successful turnaround year at TheBlaze, launching a new OTT & CMS platform, innovative new monetization opportunities, highly popular new digital content, expanded distribution, and doubling TheBlaze's audience size. Beck took over as CEO of the company in May 2017.\n\nOn Monday, November 2, 2015, Beck sent an open letter to the Republican National Convention, requesting permission for TheBlaze to host the ninth and final Republican presidential debate; this offer was not accepted.\n\nOn August 31, 2017, TheBlaze laid off nearly 60 employees, which cut its personnel by almost 30%.\n\nOn June 20, 2018, TheBlaze website announced that it would be shutting down the comments section of its website effective 6/24/18 citing that; over the past several years, most of the discussion about its stories had moved to social media and that they wanted to better focus on engaging with their readers on Facebook and Twitter.\n\nOn June 24, 2018, Midnight (EST) TheBlaze's comment section went offline.\n\nOn December 1st, 2018, Mercury Radio Arts acquired CRTV, which brought personalities such as Mark Levin, Steven Crowder, Gavin McInnes, Allie Stuckey, Phil Robertson, and Michelle Malkin to their lineup.\n\n\nTheBlaze headquarters is located in Irving, Texas, at the Mercury Studios (formerly the Studios at Las Colinas), where feature films \"Robocop\" and \"JFK\", and television series \"Walker, Texas Ranger\" and \"Prison Break\" were filmed. Mercury Radio Arts has taken over the entire complex, where it currently operates production studios, a global newsroom, and also houses Mercury Productions.\n\nMercury Radio Arts, owned and operated by Beck, operates all of its properties from the complex, including TheBlaze, Mercury Productions, Mercury Ink publishing, 1791 Supply & Co., Real Estate Agents I Trust, and the Mercury One charity organization.\n\n\n\n\n\nTheBlaze Radio Network was launched on September 5, 2012 and is available for free online via the company's website, iOS and Android apps, and the iHeartRadio app. TheBlaze Radio Network is the exclusive home of conservative talk-show host Pat Gray.\n\nTheBlaze website launched on August 26, 2010. According to Beck, the site took two months to design. At launch, the site's chief editor was Scott Baker, with its associate editor-video producer Pam Key and with Jon Seidl and Meredith Jessup as reporters. Key is known for her blog, \"Naked Emperor News: Smoking Gun Video and Images\". Baker is a former Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, broadcast journalist who previously worked at \"The Huffington Post\" and Breitbart TV. Seidl, of the \"Manhattan Institute,\" previously worked at the \"American Spectator.\" Jessup previously worked at Townhall.com. Journalists joining \"TheBlaze\" later included S. E. Cupp and David Harsanyi.\n\nOn its opening morning, the site featured advertisements for Dick Armey's new book and for Goldline International, and its lead story dealt with allegations that Education Secretary Arne Duncan encouraged Education Department employees to attend Al Sharpton's counter-rally in Washington, which took place on the same day as the Restoring Honor rally and at which Duncan spoke. Another story, criticizing Feisal Abdul Rauf, featured the headline \"Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf, the man behind the Ground Zero mosque, claims to be a Jew, Christian, and a Muslim. But some say that's impossible.\"\n\nIn January 2011, Betsy Morgan became president and Kraig Kitchin director of sales. Morgan had helmed the \"Huffington Post\" until 2009. Kitchin had formerly been the president of Premier Radio.\n\nIn March 2011, the site was noted for its critique of James O'Keefe's NPR sting video.\n\nVisits to the website declined from 21.5 million unique visitors in March 2014 to 8 million in February 2017.\n\nMercury Ink is a co-publishing deal with Simon & Schuster and was founded by Glenn Beck in 2011 as the publishing imprint of Mercury Radio Arts. Started in 2011, Mercury Ink publishes adult and young adult novels and non-fiction titles. Including books written by Glenn Beck, authors signed to Mercury Ink include New York Times best seller Richard Paul Evans.\n\n\"TheBlaze\" (entitled \"Fusion\" prior to September 2012) was a monthly news magazine published by Mercury Radio Arts and TheBlaze in New York City and circulated throughout the United States. Its former title, \"Fusion\", was taken from Beck's talk radio program's slogan, \"The Fusion of Entertainment and Enlightenment.\" The editor-in-chief was Scott Baker. The magazine was sixteen pages and was published monthly except for February and August. It was available digitally and in print. The last edition of \"TheBlaze\" magazine was published in April 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "41163199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41163199", "title": "Vishakha and others v State of Rajasthan", "text": "Vishakha and others v State of Rajasthan\n\nVishakha and others v State of Rajasthan was a 1997 Indian Supreme Court case where Vishakha and other women groups filed Public Interest Litigation (PIL) against State of Rajasthan and Union of India to enforce the fundamental rights of working women under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. The petition was filed after Bhanwari Devi, a social worker in Rajasthan was brutally gang raped for stopping a child marriage.\n\nThe court decided that the consideration of \"International Conventions and norms are significant for the purpose of interpretation of the guarantee of gender equality, right to work with human dignity in Articles 14, 15, 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution and the safeguards against sexual harassment implicit therein.\" The petition, resulted in what are popularly known as the Vishaka Guidelines. The judgment of August 1997 given by a bench of J. S. Verma (then C.J.I)., Sujata Manohar and B. N. Kirpal, provided the basic definitions of sexual harassment at the workplace and provided guidelines to deal with it. It is seen as a significant legal victory for women's groups in India.\n\nIn India, before 1997, there were no formal guidelines for how an incident involving sexual harassment at workplace should be dealt by an employer. Women experiencing sexual harassment at workplace had to lodge a complaint under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code that deals with the 'criminal assault of women to outrage women's modesty' and Section 509 that punishes an individual or individuals for using a 'word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman'. These sections left the interpretation of 'outraging women's modesty' to the discretion of the police officer.\n\nIn 1992 Bhanwari Devi a social worker in Rajasthan was brutally gang raped by a number of upper caste men, because she had tried to stop a child marriage. Bhanwari Devi was determined to get justice and lodged a case against the offenders. However, the accused was acquitted by a trial court. This appalling injustice, together with the fighting spirit of Bhanwari Devi, inspired several women’s groups and NGOs to file a petition in the Supreme Court under the collective platform of Vishakha.\n\nThe court decided that the consideration of \"International Conventions and norms are significant for the purpose of interpretation of the guarantee of gender equality, right to work with human dignity in Articles 14, 15 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution and the safeguards against sexual harassment implicit therein.\" Supreme Court of India defined sexual harassment and set guidelines for employers.\n\nSexual harassment includes such unwelcome sexually determined behaviour (whether directly or by implication) as:\n\na) physical contact and advances;\nb) a demand or request for sexual favours;\nc) sexually coloured remarks;\nd) showing pornography;\ne) any other unwelcome physical verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual NATURE\n\nWhere any of these acts is committed in circumstances where under the victim of such conduct has a reasonable apprehension that in relation to the victim’s employment or work whether she is drawing salary, or honorarium or voluntary, whether in government, public or private enterprise such conduct can be humiliating and may constitute a health and safety problem.\n\nIt is discriminatory for instance when the woman has reasonable grounds to believe that her objection would disadvantage her in connection with her employment or work including recruiting or promotion or when it creates a hostile work environment. Thus, sexual harassment need NOT involve physical contact. Any act that creates a hostile work environment - be it by virtue of cracking lewd jokes, verbal abuse, circulating lewd rumours etc. counts as sexual harassment.\n\nThe creation of a hostile work environment through unwelcome physical verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature may consist not of a single act but of pattern of behaviour comprising many such acts.\n\nThus, it is important that the victim report such behaviour as soon as possible and not wait for it to become worse. In some cases, the psychological stigma of reporting the conduct of a co-worker might require a great deal of courage on the part of the victim and they may report such acts after a long period of time. The guidelines suggest that the complaint mechanism should ensure time bound treatment of complaints, but they do not suggest that a report can only be made within a short period of time since the incident occurred.\n\nOften, the police refuse to lodge FIRs for sexual harassment cases, especially where the harassment occurred some time ago.\n\nThe Supreme Court of India's judgement only proposed guidelines to alleviate the problem of sexual harassment in 1997. India finally enacted its law on prevention of sexual harassment against female employees at the workplace. The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (\"Sexual Harassment Act\") has been made effective on April 23, 2013 by way of publication in the Gazette of India.\n\nVishakha Guidelines\n\nBhanwari Devi\n\nThe Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013\n"}
{"id": "16851735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16851735", "title": "Western Islands (publisher)", "text": "Western Islands (publisher)\n\nWestern Islands is the publishing arm of the John Birch Society; it is located in Appleton, Wisconsin, USA, where the society has its headquarters.\n\nA survey of book titles from its catalog includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "244817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244817", "title": "Yukio Tsuda (professor)", "text": "Yukio Tsuda (professor)\n\nTsuda was born in Kanagawa, Japan in 1950. He majored in English and graduated from Yokohama National University in 1973. He received his M.A. in TEFL (Teaching English as a Foreign Language) in 1978 and his Ph.D. in Speech Communication in 1985 from Southern Illinois University at Carbondale.\n\nTsuda held several faculty positions in his academic career. He was Associate Professor in the Faculty of Economics at Nagasaki University from 1986 to 1988. He then moved to Nagoya University where he was Associate Professor in the Institute of Languages and Cultures from 1988 to 1993 and Professor in the Department of International Communication and in the Graduate School of International Development from 1993 to 2001.\n\nTsuda had been Professor in the Doctoral Program in Modern Cultures and Public Policies in the Graduate School of Humanities and Social Sciences at the University of Tsukuba since 2001. He retired from the University of Tsukuba and founded the Institute of Peace Linguistics in Ibaraki Prefecture in 2014. He is currently Professor in the Department of English at Matsuyama University in Ehime Prefecture.\n\nTsuda was Visiting Professor at the International Research Center for Japanese Studies in Kyoto in 1996 and at the College of San Mateo in California in 2007. He was also Braj Kachru Fellow in the \"Internationalization Forum\" program in 1996 and Visiting Fellow in 1999 at the East-West Center in Honolulu, Hawaii.\n\nTsuda's academic interests include language policy, cross-cultural psychoanalysis, and international and intercultural communication. Among his publications are \"Language Inequality and Distortion in Intercultural Communication: A Critical Theory Approach\" (John Benjamins, 1986), \"Language, Education, and Intercultural Communication\" (Nagasaki University, 1988), \"Eigo Shihai-no Kouzou\" [\"The Structure of the Dominance of English\"] (Daisan Shokan, 1990), \"Shinryaku-suru Eigo, Hangeki-suru Nihongo\" [\"The Invading English, The Counter-Attacking Japanese\"] (PHP Institute, 1996), and \"Eigo Shihai-to Kotoba-no Byoudou\" [\"The Hegemony of English and Linguistic Equality\"] (Keio University Press, 2006).\n\nTsuda is well known as a critic of the hegemony of English and as an advocate of linguistic and cultural pluralism. He believes that the domination of English is tantamount to linguicism and linguicide, and that addressing the problem of linguistic hegemony is crucial to the development of human and cultural security. In an article in \"The San Matean\", a San Mateo Community College newspaper, dated March 19, 2007, Tsuda was quoted to say: \"It is more important to be students learning other languages than being a teacher only teaching one.\" He proposed the \"ecology of language\" paradigm as opposed to the \"diffusion of English\" paradigm.\n\nTsuda urges international and intercultural communication scholars to recognize the hegemony of English as a subject of academic inquiry in the fields especially in the English-speaking countries. He also suggests that English-language teaching professionals incorporate the ecology of language paradigm into the contents and methods of teaching as well as teacher education. Finally, he insists that both native speakers and non-native speakers of English learn the philosophy of the ecology of language so that they will become more sensitive to the ethical aspects of international and intercultural communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18445203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18445203", "title": "Zihuatanejo Project", "text": "Zihuatanejo Project\n\nThe Zihuatanejo Project was a psychedelic training center and intentional community created during the beginning of the counterculture of the 1960s by Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert under the umbrella of their nonprofit group, the International Federation for Internal Freedom (IFIF). The community was located in Zihuatanejo, Guerrero, Mexico, and took up residence at the Hotel Catalina in the summers of 1962 and 1963.\n\nLeary and Alpert first discovered the town of Zihuatanejo in 1960. After the Marsh Chapel Experiment in 1962 they decided the area would make a good location for a training center. The idea for the community was influenced by Aldous Huxley's fictional novel, \"Island\" (1962).\n\nThousands of people applied to the IFIF in the hopes of joining the project in Zihuatanejo. Out of this pool of applicants, a small, select group of people were chosen. Amenities cost $200 a month per person, including food and lodging in bungalows near a secluded beach. Fishermen supplied a bounty of fresh fish from the bay. During the first training session in 1962, Leary and 35 guests rented the Catalina Hotel for a month using their own version of the \"\" as a guide book for LSD sessions; Ralph Metzner and Richard Alpert helped manage the group. Group LSD sessions began in the morning with the consumption of liquid LSD, with a dosage of 100 to 500 micrograms ingested by participating individuals; the experience would usually last until late afternoon.\n\nImmigration officials were tipped off to the project when the Mexican media began reporting stories about an \"LSD Paradise\". In the summer of 1963, after only six weeks (May 1 - June 16) the Mexican authorities shut the community down. Officials removed the group from Zihuatanejo and sent them to Mexico City aboard a chartered DC-3. Several failed attempts were made to move the training center to Dominica and Antigua. In August 1963, with the help of wealthy patrons, Leary and their group moved to Millbrook, New York, where they stayed until 1968.\n\nLeary talks extensively about the project on the rare, out-of-print 1966 recording, \"Turn On, Tune In, Drop Out: Timothy Leary Ph.D. speaks on L.S.D.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28371861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28371861", "title": "Zulkifli Hasan", "text": "Zulkifli Hasan\n\nZulkifli Hasan (born 17 May 1962 in Lampung) is an Indonesian politician who is currently Speaker of the People's Consultative Assembly (MPR) and Chairman of the Islam-oriented National Mandate Party (PAN). He was Forestry Minister from 22 October 2009 to 1 October 2014.\n\nZulkifli Hasan was born to Hasan and Siti Zaenab, who were farmers in Pisang village in Penengahan, South Lampung. In later life, he would claim to have experienced economic hardship as a child, saying he learnt to work hard by selling eggs produced on the farm. He attended a local elementary school from 1969 to 1975. At age 13, his father took him to Tanjungkarang (now called Bandar Lampung) to enroll him in junior high school level at the State Islamic Teachers Training School (PGAN), against the boy's wishes. While attending PGAN, Zulkifli lived in a rented room in lodgings for boarders. He left PGAN in his fourth year at the school. He took an entrance exam for Madrasah Tsanawiah and passed. Without parental consent, he enrolled at Tandjungkarang State Senior High School. After four months, his father discovered he had switched schools and forced him to leave the high school. \n\nArmed with a little money from his mother, Zul moved to Jakarta. There, he attended State Senior High School 53 and graduated in 1982. In 1986, he enrolled at the Faculty of Economics at Krisnadwipayana University (Unkris) in Jakarta and financed his studies independently. In 2003, he graduated from PPM School of Management.\n\nHaving been raised in a farming family, Zulkifli was motivated to seek success beyond a rural environs. In a 2015 interview, he said his parents had wanted him to become like Buya Hamka, an Islam-oriented journalist and author from Sumatra. \"But I refused. I wanted to migrate to Jakarta.\"\n\nArriving in Jakarta as a teenager without prior acquaintances or relatives, Zulkifli supported himself with jobs from washing taxis to selling drinks. He graduated from high school with the highest achievement in his class. He then tried his luck as a door-to-door salesman of pots and later attended college while doing business. After exploring various areas of business, he began working for an ethnic Chinese businessman who sold home furnishings.\n\nIn his later years, Zulkifli once visited Lembaga Pendidikan Insani (LPI), an educational institution whose operational costs came from Islamic donations. He told students there: \"If I ate eggs and could become a minister, then you who eat chicken should be able to become president.\"\n\n\"Bang\" (Brother) Zul, as he was known, remained close to the people of his hometown in Lampung and would present assistance in times of disaster.\n\nPrior to becoming a politician, Zulkifli worked as a civil servant and then started his own businesses. His father had advised him not to be a follower but to be a leader, even if that meant starting from something small, so he quit the civil service. His older brother, Herli Hasan, says Zulkifli left the civil service because the salary was low.\n\nZulkifli's subsequent corporate positions included:\n\n\nAfter starting his political career, he did not abandon his entrepreneurial interests. He became a motivator for young people and the wider community, particularly in Sumatra, to develop entrepreneurship and create new jobs. He encouraged rural youths to help advance Indonesia's future economic growth. In 2012, he supported a program of the National Mandate Party (PAN) that provided venture capital and training for young entrepreneurs in North Sumatra.\n\nZulkifli was active in the Muhammadiyah mass Muslim organization, whose members were among the founders of the National Mandate Party (PAN) in 1998. His first political forays included chairing the Regional Board of Farmers and Fishermen of Lampung Province, serving as deputy chairman of Lampung Sai Community Society, and initiating the Lampung Youth Union in Jakarta. He chaired Muhammadiyah's Institute of Agricultural Laborers and Fishermen for Jakarta from 2000 to 2005. He chaired the Logistics Department of PAN's Central Board from 2000 to 2005. \n\nHe later became deputy chairman of PAN's faction in the House of Representatives, serving as a member of parliament from 2004 to 2009. He was a member of House Commission VI overseeing transportation and infrastructure. In July 2008, he was elected chairman of a special committee that questioned the government's policy to raise fuel prices.\n\nZulkifli was secretary general of PAN's Central Board for 2005 to 2010. On 8 October 2011, Zulkifli's oldest daughter Futri Zulya Savitri married PAN founder Amien Rais's third son, Ahmad Mumtaz Rais.\n\nAfter President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono was re-elected for a second term in 2009, Zulkifli was appointed forestry minister on 21 October 2009. He said his priorities would be the development of production forests (HTI and HTR), reducing forest fires by 20% annually, combating illegal logging, streamlining of overlapping regulations of the central government and regencies for forest sites, and improving forest industry institutions. He also said he would resist temptations and pressure from businessmen and politicians putting themselves before the public interest. “But temptations are always there everywhere. It’ll pose no problem to us if we just don’t pay attention to them,” he said. Indonesia's Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) in 2012 declared the Forestry Ministry to be considered the country's most corrupt institution. To support efforts to eradicate corruption, Zulkifli issued circular No.SE.2 / Menhut-II / 2012 on Gratification Reporting at the Ministry of Forestry. The circular encouraged staff at the ministry to report the gratuities they receive to their superiors to report to first echelon officials and the KPK. Zulkifli served as forestry minister until 1 October 2014.\n\nIn 2010, the Forestry Ministry promised to crack down on plantation companies operating without permits in Indonesia. In 2011, the ministry admitted hundreds of mining and plantation companies were operating in Central Kalimantan province without correct permits. Zulkifli said the problem was due to misinterpretations of regional autonomy legislation introduced in 2001. Elfian Effendi of Greenomics Indonesia said it was difficult for the minister to stop the offending companies because they have political links. The Forestry Ministry promised to stop issuing new plantation and mine permits in the province and to cooperate with the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) to enforce the law.\n\nIn January 2011, Zulkifli announced the Forestry Ministry would implement a 2-year moratorium on the issuance of permits for the conversion of primary and peat forests. Conservationists noted that on the eve of the logging moratorium, the ministry issued 2.9 million hectares of new plantation concessions to 44 firms. On 20 May 2011, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono signed a presidential decree putting the two-year moratorium into effect. The decree covered from 64 million to 72 million hectares of primary forest and peatland.\n\nIn May 2013, the Indonesian Forum for Budget Transparency (Fitra) claimed data from the State Audit Agency (BPK) showed the Forestry Ministry had lost or misappropriated Rp 7.1 trillion ($731 million) in 2012. Zulkifli responded by saying the data and description of “losses” were inaccurate. He said the actual figure was Rp 6.2 trillion in non-tax revenue the ministry has been unable to collect since 2002. “We’re continuing to collect on those payments, both at the regional level and at the central level, and to date we’ve whittled down the outstanding amount to just Rp 2.1 trillion,” he said.\n\nOn 9 September 2013, Zulkifli was interviewed by Harrison Ford for part of a documentary series on climate change and the environment. Presidential adviser Andi Arief complained Ford had attacked the minister with rude questions. He accused Ford and his crew of “harassing state institutions” and threatened to deport him.\n\nZulkifli said Ford was emotional because he wanted illegal loggers swiftly arrested at Tesso Nilo National Park in Sumatra. The minister said Ford did not give him sufficient time to explain the difficulties of catching those who violate forestry laws. He lamented they had not rehearsed the interview before filming commenced. Ford was making part of series on climate change called \"Years of Living Dangerously\" for US television network Showtime.\n\nDuring Zulkifli's tenure as forestry minister, forests in Sumatra and Kalimantan were burned to clear land for plantations, causing hazardous haze that reached neighboring Singapore and Malaysia. In 2013, Kuntoro Mangkusubroto, the head of Indonesia's presidential working unit for development supervision and control, said many fires were on land owned by Asia Pulp and Paper (APP) and Asia Pacific Resources International Limited. Zulkifli said there was no strong evidence against the two companies. \n\nIn June 2013, Zulkifli blamed the severity of the haze on a five-year weather cycle. \"Every five years, the weather becomes extremely dry. The wind is also much stronger and moves in a circular motion. So, when there is burning, fire spreads very quickly... Due to the dry season, it takes time for firefighters to locate the water sources. By the time water is irrigated to the hot spots, the fire would have spread.\" Responding to allegations that plantation and forestry companies were responsible for the fires, Zulkifli was quoted by \"Tempo\" magazine as saying the companies must be defended because they pay taxes. He said 14 people had been arrested on suspicion of starting fires, 11 of them linked to companies and three of them smallholders. \"If proven guilty they could be jailed for five years and have their permits revoked,\" he said.\n\nIn March 2014, Zulkifli supported calls by the National Police and Indonesian Military for the shooting of people found burning forests if they resist arrest. He acknowledged the people responsible for forest fires were seeking to open up new land for oil palm plantations. \n\nIn 2015, anti-haze activist Syahrul Fitra accused Zulkifli of allowing corporations to burn forests and causing the haze crisis. He claimed Zulkifli had allegedly given permission for the burning of over 1.3 million hectares of forests be used for plantations. He said law enforcers should arrest any officials responsible for the haze and called for an investigation into possible corruption in the issuance of permits. Zulkifli denied any wrongdoing.\n\nIn August 2014, Zulkifli visited Riau province and encouraged proposals to change the status of forest land owned by locals so it could become part of 1,638,249 hectares allowed by the Forestry Ministry for conversion into non-forest land.\n\nRiau governor Annas Ma'mun's administration responded by sending a proposal to Zulkifli, who gave his approval to some of the areas. Annas later revised the proposal, adding some land owned by palm-oil businessman Gulat Manurung, who paid a bribe of S$156,000 and Rp 500 million. Annas later stated Zulkifli had approved and issued the conversion permit.\n\nOn 12 November 2014, Zulkifli was questioned as a witness by the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) in the case against Annas. Zulkifli denied approving the permit. Annas said he had been on his way to meet with Zulkifli when he was arrested by the KPK in a sting operation in September 2014.\n\nTestifying at Annas's corruption trial in April 2015, Zulkifli admitted he had met with the director of PT Duta Palma, Surya Darmadi, to discuss a forest clearing permit. Surya was linked to the case by Gulat, who said he helped PT Duta Palma to meet with Annas to enable the company to convert 18,000 hectares of land. Gulat was in February 2015 sentenced to three years in jail. Annas was in June 2015 sentenced to six years in jail.\n\nZulkifli was questioned by the KPK on 11 November 2014 over the illegal issuance of a land conversion permit for a luxury housing project in Bogor, West Java. The project was developed by property firm PT Sentul City. Former Bogor regent Rachmat Yasin received Rp 4.5 billion in bribes from Sentul City president director Kwee Cahyadi Kumala, who is president commissioner of property company PT Bukit Jonggol Asri (BJA), the main shareholder of Sentul City. KPK in December 2014 raided the Forestry Ministry to seize evidence. Zulkifli denied any wrongdoing. The Forestry Ministry's director general for planning, Bambang Supijanto, said Zulkifli had rejected BJA's proposal to convert nearly 3,000 acres of forest area for housing projects in Bogor because it lacked some requirements.\n\nZulkifli sought to improve the performance and image of the Forestry Ministry through two programs: one targeting the growth of agriculture through smallholdings in forest areas, and the other promoting environmental education. The first was the simplification of the application procedure for the development of smallholdings under the Community Nursery (\"Kebun Bibit Rakyat\", KBR) scheme, introduced in 2010 and simplified in 2011. The second is the Forest Education program, which involves students visiting selected forest areas and planting trees.\n\nConservation groups have alleged that after Joko Widodo had won Indonesia’s presidential election in July 2014, Zulkifli realized he would not retain his cabinet position because PAN was not part of the incoming ruling coalition, so he therefore started issuing more ministerial decrees, right up to his final week in office, when 100 decrees were signed. Many of the decrees granted new concessions for timber and logging companies, or allowed forest land to be used by oil palm plantation companies. Much of the land in question is in Papua province. Greenomics Indonesia said Zulkfli, during his tenure as minister, granted permits for 1.64 million acres of forest land to be used for farming, including for oil palm plantations. Zulkifli in March 2018 defended his action, saying Papua needed more land for sugar cultivation.\n\nOn 8 October 2014, Zulkifli was sworn in as speaker of the People's Consultative Assembly (MPR) for the 2014-2019 period. His appointment was supported by Prabowo Subianto's Red-and-White Coalition following Prabowo's loss of the 2014 presidential election to Joko \"Jokowi\" Widodo. Although PAN was then a member of the opposition coalition, Zulkifli promised to uphold the interests of all Indonesians and not just those of his political supporters. Jokowi's coalition had wanted Oesman Sapta Odang as MPR speaker, but Zulkifli defeated Oesman by 347 to 330 votes.\n\nOne of Zulkifli's first tasks as MPR speaker was to lead the inauguration ceremony of Indonesia's seventh president, Joko Widodo, on 20 October 2014. He was credited for ensuring the event was attended by the losing presidential candidate Prabowo Subianto, who had vigorously rejected the election result.\n\nOn 22 December 2014, Zulkifli said protests against then-Jakarta governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, better known as Ahok, on the basis of his religion and race were unacceptable. Ahok, a Christian of Chinese ethnicity, faced opposition from conservative Muslim groups. \"I strongly protest those who protest against Ahok because he's ethnic Chinese or because of his religion. If you want to criticize, go ahead, but do not make it about ethnicity, religion or race, as we are united in diversity,\" he said.\n\nIn May 2016, Zulkifli called for tighter regulations on the sale of alcohol, saying it has negative social consequences, including death and crimes of obscenity. Indonesia already bans the sale of alcohol to minors. In January 2018, Zulkifli claimed eight parties in the national parliament were in favor of open alcohol sales at small shops. He said alcoholic drinks should be rejected firmly.\n\nIn February 2016, Zulkifli called for smoking to be banned as it contributes to \"ignorance and poverty\".\n\nIn March 2018, Zulkifli said drug traffickers should be shot dead, while drug users should be rehabilitated rather than imprisoned, as most of Indonesia's prison inmates are drug offenders.\n\nIn March 2016, Zulkifli said the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) movement should have no place in Indonesia, but he warned against violence and discrimination. \"As a movement, the existence of LGBT must be opposed. We must limit its room to move. However, as individual people, they must be protected like any other citizen,\" he said.\n\nIn January 2018, Zulkifli falsely claimed five parties in the House of Representatives were supporting a bill to legalize same-sex marriage. His statement was refuted by House speaker Bambang Soesatyo, and prompted other major parties to affirm their opposition to gay rights.\n\nPAN held a congress in Bali over 28 February to 2 March 2015 to choose a chairman for the 2015-2020 period. Among those considered contenders were Zulkifli, then-incumbent chairman Hatta Rajasa and deputy chairman Dradjad Wibowo.\n\nZulkifli announced his candidacy on 19 January 2015 in Surabaya. The Chairman of PAN's Youth Front Advisory Council, Hanafi Rais, said Zulkfli wanted the party to focus on defending the interests of the people, as well as giving local party officials full authority in determining regional leadership boards, and improving the performances of regional heads.\n\nOn 1 March 2015, Zulkifli was narrowly elected PAN chairman, receiving 292 votes, while Hatta Rajasa received 286 votes. After his election, Zulkifli insisted PAN would remain part of Prabowo Subianto's opposition coalition. On 2 September 2015, Zulkifli announced PAN was switching its allegiance to Jokowi's ruling coalition in order to help the government's programs succeed. On 9 August 2018, Zulkifli shifted PAN's allegiance back to Prabowo amid allegations that Prabowo's running mate for the 2019 presidential election, Sandiaga Uno, had paid Rp 500 billion to PAN in order to secure his nomination. PAN denied the allegation.\n\nIn February 2017, Zulkifli urged Indonesians to avoid all forms of money politics in regional elections. “The sovereignty and power are fully in the hands of the people. Do not trade it for money or staple foods,” he said. On 6 March 2018, Zulkifli was filmed giving money to women in a public transport vehicle at a market in Muara Enim in South Sumatra province, ahead of the election for the regent of Muara Enim. He was accompanied at the market by regency head candidate Syamsul Bahri, who is supported by PAN. The Election Supervisory Agency (Panwaslu) of Muara Enim conducted an investigation and attempted to summon Zulkifli for questioning but he was too busy to attend. PAN officials denied the handing out of money in the presence of the candidate constituted money politics, arguing Syamsul Bahri's presence was his own initiative. Panwaslu later concluded Zulkifli had not been trying to influence voters to choose a particular candidate.\n\nIn February 2018, Zulkifli said he would be ready to contest Indonesia's 2019 presidential election if he is nominated. He later acknowledged any presidential nominee would likely require the backing of a coalition of parties. In April 2018, he said he would be PAN's presidential candidate, despite speculation the party might choose former military commander Gatot Nurmantyo. PAN ended up supporting Prabowo Subianto for the 2019 presidential election.\n\nZulkifli is married to Soraya and they have four children: Futri Zulya Savitri, Zita Anjani, Farras Nugraha and Rafi Haikal.\n\nOldest daughter Futri Zulya Savitri studied in Australia, married a son of Amien Rais and runs a family business making household and kitchen appliances.\n\nOldest son, Farras Nugraha, studied in the UK and is now a businessman. In September 2017, Farras married Milka Anisya Norosiya. Among their wedding guests were military commander General Gatot Nurmantyo and senior politicians Oesman Sapta Odang, Amien Rais, Hidayat Nur Wahid, Aburizal Bakrie and Akbar Tandjung.\n\nZulkifli's second daughter, Zita Anjani, studied in London and in 2015 opened an early learning school called Kids Republic. His youngest child, Rafi Haikal, chose to study architecture in New York.\n\nZulkifli has four brothers, including three who also became politicians: Zainudin Hasan (born 1965), Hazizi (1976) and Helmi Hasan (1979). The oldest brother in the family is Herli Hasan.\n\nHelmi Hasan, who became mayor of Bengkulu in 2013, viewed Zulkifli not only as an older brother but also as a parent to be obeyed and respected. Zulkifli, Helmi and Zainudin founded Insan Cendikia Kalianda Lampung Indonesia Foundation, which built a free school for children from poor families in Lampung.\n\nIn March 2015, Helmi Hasan was declared a suspect by Bengkulu Attorney General's Office for allegedly embezzling Rp 11.4 billion ($870,000) of social aid from the city's 2012-2013 budget. Helmi filed a pre-trial motion, which was accepted on 9 September 2015 by Bengkulu City State Court, so he did not stand trial. The former head of Bengkulu City's Office for Management of Regional Revenue, Finance and Assets, M. Sofyan, in September 2017 testified Bengkulu Regional Secretary, Marjon, had ordered him to release Rp 500 million in state funds to pay for the success of Helmi's pre-trial motion.\n\nIn December 2015, Zainudin Hasan was elected regent of South Lampung regency for the 2016-2021 period.\n\nIn February 2017, police in Bandar Lampung city named a Hazizi a fraud suspect for allegedly asking a contractor to pay a bribe of Rp 515 million in order to obtain a contract for infrastructure projects worth Rp 3.5 billion in South Lampung regency, where his brother Zainudin is regent. The contractor, Syahruddin, died in May 2016 without ever receiving the allegedly promised contract. His eldest son later reported Hazizi to police. In May 2017, Hazizi resigned from his seat in Lampung legislative assembly \"for no specific reason\" apart from \"wanting to concentrate on worship\", according to one of his colleagues in PAN.\n\nZulkifli is a practitioner of kyokushin, a type of full contact karate. He served as chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Kyokushinkan International Indonesia. In June 2010, he received an honorary black belt from the supreme leader of Kyokushin International. Zulkifli is also a practitioner of Tarung Derajat, a full body contact Indonesian mixed martial art. He was chairman of the Tarung Derajat Sports Family from 2010-2014.\n\nOn 26 July 2007, Jakarta's PPM School of Management presented Zulkifli with the Kadarman Award, which is given to successful alumni.\n\nOn 8 July 2010, Zulkifli received a nobility title from Solo Palace in Central Java. He was bestowed the title of Kanjeng Pangeran (Prince) Noto Wononagoro for his efforts to preserve Javanese culture.\n\nIn August 2014, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono presented Zulkifli with the Bintang Jasa Mahaputra Adipradana medal for his services to the country.\n\nOn 15 November 2017, Zulkifli was awarded the title of Pangeran Kerta Jaya Alam Nata from an organization of residents of Lubuklinggau in South Sumatra. The title, which means the leader of the people who carries out the mandate, was presented to him for \"consistently defending the people\". Organizers said Zulkifli is the only person to receive the title.\n\n\n\n \n"}
