{"id": "35245110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35245110", "title": "1982 Barnard Conference on Sexuality", "text": "1982 Barnard Conference on Sexuality\n\nThe Barnard Conference on Sexuality is often credited as the moment that signaled the beginning of the Feminist Sex Wars. It was held at Barnard College (a private women's liberal arts college in New York City) on April 24, 1982, and was presented as the annual Scholar and Feminist Conference IX, an integral part of the Barnard Center for Research on Women. The theme of the Conference was Sexuality. The Conference was set up as a framework for feminist thought to proceed regarding topics that many felt uncomfortable talking about. As Carole Vance, the Academic Coordinator of the Conference wrote in her letter inviting the participants “sexuality is a bread and butter issue, not a frill.”\n\nThe Barnard Sex Conference was held in 1982 by the Barnard Center for Research on Women, then known as the Women’s Center. It was organized by a group of feminists that included Ellen Dubois, Ellen Willis, Gayle Rubin, and was led by Carol Vance. Jane Gould, the director of the Women’s Center then, calls it the “most controversial and perhaps the most important conference”. The women who took part understood that this conference was important in light of the growing Women Against Pornography (WAP) movement led by Andrea Dworkin, Susan Brownmiller, and Robin Morgan. Therefore, the aim was to “move beyond debates about violence and pornography and to focus on sexuality apart from reproduction\". It is important to notice that the Conference itself was not fully supported by the college itself, as Gould narrates in her autobiography. Many Barnard faculty members dropped out of the planning committee. Days before the Conference itself, the then President of Barnard College, Ellen V. Futter, began receiving phone calls and letters from WAP and other groups against the premise of the Conference. The day before the conference was scheduled to begin, Barnard College officials—in response to phone calls from angry members of anti-pornography groups—confiscated 1500 copies of \"Diary of a Conference on Sexuality\". The \"Diary\", which was intended for distribution to conference participants, was a compilation of steering committee minutes, personal narratives, information about conference events, and work by feminist artists. Angry letters and threats of losing funding were also major concerns. Despite all of the contention, the organizers went ahead with the event.\n\nThe day of the Conference itself was extremely controversial. The Conference was picketed by the anti-pornography feminist group. WAP members picketed the conference and gave out handouts, leaflets and protests, wearing T-shirts with the words “For a Feminist Sexuality” on the front and “Against S/M” on the back. Accusations about the specific sexual practices of individual women involved in the conference were central to the outcry around the event. The Conference was very publicized in the news afterwards. Many articles and books have been inspired by this conference, the most famous being Carole Vance's \"Pleasure and Danger: Exploring Female Sexuality.\"\n"}
{"id": "17754492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17754492", "title": "Academic grading in France", "text": "Academic grading in France\n\nSince 1890, the French baccalauréat exam, required to receive a high school diploma, has traditionally scored students on a scale (Barème) of 0-20, as do most secondary school and university classes. Although the traditional scale stops at 20/20, French baccalauréat results can be higher than 20/20 due to supplementary \"options\". French universities traditionally grade in a stricter way than secondary schools, which means that students are unlikely to receive marks as high as they did in secondary school. Famously, in Preparatory Class for 'Grandes Écoles' (CPGE), an optional 2-4 year preparation for the most elite universities in France, students are graded so harshly that class ranking, rather than individual grades, usually reflects an individual's performance, especially when comparing the grades to secondary or university grades. Often, an average grade of 7-8 in Preparatory Class for 'Grandes Écoles' (CPGE) can be considered as a satisfactory grade if the best grade in the class is only a 12.\n\nOn the Le diplôme national du brevet, awarded for passing the 10th year exam (9th grade), and also on University of Paris, Sorbonne transcripts, scores above 12 on the scale of 20 confer the following \"mentions\" (honors):\n\nIn recent years, the French government began to explore possible conversion of the 0-20 grading scale to 0-4 or 0-5. Since 2008, the College Gabriel-Séailles, a middle school in southern France, has abolished grading altogether.\n\nPrimary schools generally use a 10-point grading scale or a letter grade.\n\nThe European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) scale is gaining popularity in the post-secondary education system, since it is the standard for comparing study performance throughout the European Union. The GPA grading scale is becoming more and more common as well, since it eases the comparison with American students.\n\nSome Grandes écoles use \"exotic\" systems, like Ecole Centrale de Lille, which uses a three-letter scale system:\n\nIn 12th Century Europe, students were evaluated by oral disputation in Latin. In the 14th century, some written examinations occurred, but were rare. By the 16th century the Catholic Church was struggling against the Protestant Reformation, and trying to advance Catholic scholarship as a defense of doctrine, to which end The Society of Jesus was created, and with it Jesuit Colleges. One of which, the Collegio Romano, published the Ratio Studiorum in 1599, a book of rules for Jesuit education in which official procedures for examinations, competitions, and homework were outlined along with a method for ranking and classifying students. During the Ancien Régime in France (15th-18th Centuries), oral examination was still the most common method of evaluating students. In 1558, a school in Portugal was the first European school to distribute prizes to the best students, and by the end of the century other schools were following suit. By the end of the 18th century, schools in France were beginning to publish bulletins with student evaluations and class rankings and the Jesuite College at Caen would develop a numerical 4 point ranking (\"4 niveaux: 1 = bien; 2 = assez bien; 3 = médiocre; 0 = mal\"). Even in the early years of the Baccalauréat (created in 1808), the oral evaluation committee members expressed their appraisal of candidates with colored balls (Red for \"favorable\", white for \"abstention\", black for \"unfavorable\"). In the Second French Empire, the representation of colored balls was converted into a numerical system of 0-5, and then in 1890 the numerical system of 0-20 was created along with the modern French baccalauréat, which comprises several stages of written examinations <br> \nIn the student rebellions of, 1968, the bulletin of January 6, 1969 recommended a change from the 0-20 grading scale to a qualitative evaluation such as \"very satisfactory\", \"unsatisfactory\", etc., Or adopting a more general (A, B, C, D, E) letter system, or a simplified numerical system (1,2,3,4,5). Before the change could be fully implemented, the recommendation was reversed in a bulletin on July 9, 1971 which recommended the continuation of the 0-20 system.\n\nThere is no exact formula for converting scores between the French 0-20 scale and American grades, and there are several reasons why the systems are not entirely commensurate. For instance, some American institutions use Rank Based Grading and grading curves, that is, shifting the grades of a class so that the highest scores align with the highest grades on the grading scale and the lowest scores align with the lowest grades on the scale or aligning the median achieved score within the class to a fixed point on the grading scale. Likewise some American institutions use weighted grades, wherein grades for advanced classes are augmented in the official transcripts to compensate for the difficulty of the classes. French schools use neither, the result being that in a university, \"perfect\" 20s are never given, grades over 14 are extremely rare, and scores over 12 indicate that the student is in the top 10-20% of the class. About half of all French Law School students at Paris Sorbonne I maintain an average of 10-12, while the median grade at Cornell Law School is 3.35(B+), at Duke University School of Law is 3.30 (B+), at UC Davis School of Law is 3.25-3.35 (B/B+), and at Columbia Law School it the median GPA is estimated at 3.4(B+).\n\n<br> Even though no exact conversion exists between the two systems, there are several scales that approximate a conversion and many American universities require that grades from foreign institutions, such as grades in the French 20 point scale, be converted into the American system on applications. While other sources suggest that students should not make their own calculations directly for the application.\n\n<br>Table of various conversion scales for university level classes:\n<br>Table of various conversion scales for secondary school classes:\n\nFrench diplomas grant \"Mentions\" similar to American \"Honors\" or \"Latin Honors\" titles\n\n"}
{"id": "19063763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19063763", "title": "Afterschool Alliance", "text": "Afterschool Alliance\n\nThe Afterschool Alliance is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization in the United States whose mission is \"to ensure that all children have access to affordable, quality afterschool programs.\" It uses communications and advocacy strategies to increase public and private investments in afterschool programs. The Alliance serves as both a central resource center for afterschool programs, as well as a public advocate. The nation's leading voice for afterschool, the Afterschool Alliance is the only organization dedicated to raising awareness of the importance of afterschool programs and advocating for more afterschool investments. The Afterschool Alliance works with the Administration, the U.S. Congress, governors, mayors and advocates across the country. The Afterschool Alliance has more than 25,000 afterschool program partners and its publications reach more than 65,000 interested individuals every month.\n\nThe Afterschool Alliance was established in 2000 by the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, the U.S. Department of Education, J.C. Penney Company, Inc., the Open Society Institute/The After-School Corporation, the Entertainment Industry Foundation and the Creative Artists Agency Foundation.\n\nThe Afterschool Alliance grew from public awareness efforts undertaken by the Mott Foundation through a public-private partnership with the U.S. Department of Education to expand afterschool programs through the 21st Century Community Learning Centers initiative. The federal government provided grants to local communities for afterschool programs, while the Mott Foundation funded training, evaluation and public awareness activities. The Foundation and the Department's efforts caught the attention of several outside entities with a shared interest in achieving afterschool for all. These groups came together in September 1999 to create the Afterschool Alliance, which was formally incorporated as a nonprofit in 2000.\n\nToday, the Alliance works with a broad range of organizations and supporters, including policymakers and policymaker associations, advocacy groups, afterschool coalitions and providers at every level, business and philanthropic leaders, technical assistance organizations and leaders representing a variety of interests, each with a stake in afterschool.\n\nThe \"Afterschool for All Challenge\" is a conference held in Washington, D.C. for youth, staff, and other individuals involved in afterschool programs. The event brings together hundreds of afterschool supporters (staff, parents, youth, agency and community leaders) in Washington, D.C. for networking, training, meetings with Congressional offices and a special recognition of state and Congressional afterschool leaders. Previous Congressional Champions honored at the event have included: Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Patrick Kennedy (D-RI), Phil Hare (D-IL) and Bobby Scott (D-VA), and Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), John Ensign (R-NV), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Jack Reed (D-RI) and Arlen Specter (D-PA). In 2009, U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan spoke about the role of community organizations and afterschool in supporting students. Maggie Daley, Chair of After School Matters, was honored for her efforts to provide quality afterschool opportunities for older youth, and Members of Congress and state leaders from California, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New York and Ohio were recognized. \n\n\"Lights On Afterschool\" is a nationwide rally to draw attention to the importance of afterschool programs and to highlight their importance to children, families and communities. Each year, more than one million people attend over 7,500 events. \"Lights On Afterschool\" is covered in every major media market in the country and in thousands of news clips. \"Lights On Afterschool\" events give student participants in afterschool programs a chance to show off the skills that they have learned in their respective programs and to demonstrate the need for further support of such programming.\nIn 2001, Arnold Schwarzenegger became Honorary Chair of the event.\nThe Empire State Building in New York City regularly features yellow lights on the evening of \"Lights on Afterschool\" in honor of the cause.\nIn 2008, Afterschool Alliance replaced its former \"Lights on Afterschool\" incandescent lightbulb symbol with a CFL (compact fluorescent lamp) to support energy efficiency.\n\n\"Afterschool for All\" is a national petition in support of afterschool programs stating that all children and youth should have access to quality, affordable afterschool programs. Roughly 19,000 individuals and organizations have signed on. Among the partners are governors, mayors and law enforcement leaders, and others who support the cause of afterschool programs. These partners include the YMCA of the USA, the NAACP, the National Council of La Raza, the National PTA, the National League of Cities, AARP, 100 Women in Hedge Funds, Time Warner, IBM, the NBA, NFL, MLB, NHL and the US Conference of Mayors.\n\nAfterschool Ambassadors are trained to act as spokespeople on the issue of afterschool programming. Participants in the program learn about communications and advocacy in order to act as liaisons to their respective communities. The Ambassadors also receive media training. Afterschool Ambassadors share their experiences and their education and serve as local representatives of the issue of afterschool.\n\nOn February 24, 2014, Representatives Dan Kildee (D-MI) and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) introduced the Afterschool for America's Children Act in the United States House of Representatives. The legislation would reauthorize and strengthen the 21st Century Community Learning Centers (21st CCLC) initiative—the nation’s chief federal funding stream for afterschool programs—by supporting innovative advances taking root in before-school, afterschool and summer learning programs. The bill was companion legislation to S. 326 introduced previously in the United States Senate. More than 110 national, state and local organizations signed a letter in support of the legislation, including: Afterschool Alliance, After-School All-Stars, SHAPE America - Society of Health and Physical Educators (formally AAHPERD), American Camp Association, American Heart Association, Camp Fire, National Association of Elementary School Principals, National Education Association, National Alliance for Partnerships in Equity, National Farm to School Network, National Science Teachers Association, Save the Children, and the United States Soccer Foundation. Kildee reintroduced the legislation in the 114th Congress on February 24, 2015.\n\nThe Afterschool Alliance also spoke out in favor of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 2013 (S. 1086; 113th Congress). The bill would reauthorize the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 to provide block grants to the states to help low-income parents find child care for their children. In addition to reauthorizing the program, it amends the law to require background checks on grant recipients and annual inspections. The Afterschool Alliance supported the bill, saying \"it is important to emphasize the value of quality school-age child care to achieve positive outcomes for children, including improved academic performance, work habits and study skills.\n\n"}
{"id": "31651754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31651754", "title": "American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists", "text": "American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists\n\nThe American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors and Therapists (AASECT) is a professional organization for sexuality educators, sexuality counselors and sex therapists.\n\nAASECT was founded by Patricia Schiller in 1967. AASECT publishes the peer-reviewed journals \"American Journal of Sexuality Education\" and the \"Journal of Sex Education and Therapy.\" They have also published a directory of sex therapists since 1976 and have initiated therapeutic options via phone and online. AASECT is the premier organization that certifies sexual health practitioners. AASECT offers certification of sexual health practitioners in four categories: sexuality educator, sex counselor, sex therapist (CST) and supervisor (CST-S).\n\n"}
{"id": "56452647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56452647", "title": "Anne Cannon Forsyth", "text": "Anne Cannon Forsyth\n\nAnne Cannon Forsyth was an educational activist who created the Anne C. Stauffer Foundation in 1967, and also served as founder and president of the North Carolina Fund. The Anne Cannon Trust awarded $100,000 to Appalachian State University to provide educational scholarships to underrepresented populations.\n\nBorn into a wealthy family in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Forsyth felt the need to help under-represented people. Specifically, Forsyth was concerned with the problems of poverty and racism. She began her work helping this cause by creating the Anne C. Stauffer Foundation in 1967, which aimed to \"promote the integration of southern preparatory schools\". The Anne C. Stauffer Foundation largely helped integrate the Virginia Episcopal School in 1967, Bill Alexander and Marvin Barnard were among the first two to attend. Forsyth rationalized starting the program because of the benefits she believed both black and white students would acquire. The foundation over the course of its operation from 1967 to 1975 enable 142 students, mainly African Americans, to attend prep schools in the southern United States.\n\nAnne Cannon Forsyth was the daughter of Zachary Smith Reynolds and Anne Cannon Stauffer. Forysth had a tumultuous childhood after the divorce of her parents and the early death of her father.\n\nForsyth has two sons, Zachary Tate and Jock Tate, both involved in the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation.\n\nIn August 2006, the Anne Cannon Trust was founded in Forsyth's honor, which funded 20 scholarships for students of under-represented groups to attend Appalachian State University. Forsyth also founded the Awards Committee for Education (ACE), which funded scholarships for high achieving Native American and African American high school students from Appalachia for summer programs.\n"}
{"id": "41210889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41210889", "title": "Answer Underground", "text": "Answer Underground\n\nAnswer Underground was a social education company based in San Francisco, California. It developed an app for teachers and students to find information via group Q&A. \n\nAnswer Underground was founded in 2012 by Sallie Severns, a former executive at information company Answers.com. Severns came up with the idea for a mobile collaborative elearning app after observing her son struggle to get homework help online.\n\nSeverns created the first prototype of the Answer Underground app in 2011 and it was released to open beta in May 2012.\nOriginally, the Answer Underground app was designed for mobile devices and was optimized for iOS. Users were authenticated through Facebook. As of September 2013, the company had planned to release the app for the Android operating system.\nThe app focused on academic groups categorized by major subject areas. Members were able to post questions to academic groups. In 2013, a verification feature was added to identify experienced academics to differentiate credible responses.\n"}
{"id": "3152494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3152494", "title": "August Endell", "text": "August Endell\n\nAugust Endell (1871–1925) was a designer, writer, teacher, and German Jugendstil architect. He is also known as one of the founders of the Jugendstil movement, the German expressionist movement of Art Nouveau. His first marriage was with Elsa von Freytag-Loringhoven.\n\nAugust Endell was born on April 12, 1871, in Berlin. In 1892 Endell moved to Munich, where he gave up his dream of being a teacher and instead became a scholar. He studied aesthetics, psychology and philosophy, German literature, and art at the University of Munich. He had the intention to pursue a doctorate degree in academics, but changed direction when he met Hermann Obrist, who became a close friend, and whose work was characterized by expressive ornamentation of observed submarine flora and fauna. Although influenced and encouraged by Obrist, Endell was primarily concerned with translating his idea of mobile space into architecture and decorations. Endell expressed important ideas on the stylistic intention underlying the work of Jugendstil artists at the time. In 1898 Endell joined the Initiative of Artistic Münchner Vereinigten Werkstätten für Kunst, and established himself as one of the innovators and leaders of the Kunstgewerbler movement.\n\nIn the spring of 1900, Endell met Else Plötz (later the Baroness Elsa von Freytag-Loringhoven), then an actress and aspiring artist who took private art lessons from him. The couple was married in a civil service on 22 August 1901 in Berlin. They had an open relationship, and in 1902 Else Endell became romantically involved with a friend of Endell’s, the poet and translator Felix Paul Greve (later the Canadian author Frederick Philip Grove). After the trio travelled together to Palermo, Italy, the Endells’ marriage disintegrated and the pair divorced in 1906. Although their separation was acrimonious, and Freytag-Loringhoven dedicated several satirical poems to August Endell, the relationship was influential for both artists. Endell later married sculptor Anna Meyn (1882–1967), with whom he had a child. In 1918 Endell was appointed director of the Breslau Academy of Art, in which function he served until he fell ill and died on 13 April 1925 at the age of 54.\n\nEndell is noted for many designs. In 1897 he received his first commission, an important one that made him practically famous overnight: to design the façade of the Atelier Elvira Photographic Studio in (Munich), which belonged to Hermann Obrist. HIs design included an abstract depiction of a dragon coming out of a wave like element. His use of curve lines implied a sense of calmness to the intricate and massive piece. Organic elements further enforced with the decoration of coral. The building incorporated elements of styles by Antoni Gaudí and Hector Guimard. Unfortunately the Atelier Elvira was burned to the ground during World War II.\n\nIn 1899, August Endell became co editor of the magazine \"Pan\", a literary magazine that was published from 1895 to 1900 in Berlin, Germany. The magazine played a key role in the development of the Art Nouveau movement as a whole, printing illustrations by both well-known and young upcoming artists. . Endell published one of his own essays titled, \" Um die Schönheit,” in which Endell comments on how exhibitions of art, stressed from nature is not a set of design ideal for art. Then writing that, “ … we are on the threshold of not only the new style, but also the development of a completely new art. The art of applying forms of nothing insignificant, not representing anything, and not resembling anything… running deep into our souls, so deeply and so strongly as only music can do.” Endell believed that art and style should be the power of direct impact in form on viewer’s personal feelings. His opinions of art and style were highly valued by other artists of the time such as, Franz Stuck, Lovis Corinth, and Ernst Kirchner; being favored highly by futurist artist and expressionists. In his essays, Endell paved the way for abstract art in Germany. Endell’s personal art theory was based on a psychological aesthetic of perception. He believed formal art should be separate from nature. He felt very strongly about art evoking strong feelings through freely invented forms, just as music does through sounds. Endell also contributed illustrations and decorative designs for wall reliefs, carpets, textiles, coverings, window glass and lamps to the publication \"Pan\"\n\nNot long after, in 1901, he contributed to the design of the Theater Bunte, in Berlin Germany, which has since been destroyed. Designing all the decorative elements, carpets, fabrics, and even the nails used in the building of the theater. Each area of the theater was painted a different diverse color, thus the name Theatre Bunte, Bunte meaning “colored.”\n\nEndell was also responsible for the design of the Hackesche Höfe, a notable courtyard complex in the centre of Berlin, as well as the design for a sanatorium in Wyk auf Föhr built in 1902. August Endell then went on to design several private homes and villas in the towns of Berlin and Potsdam in Germany.\n\nAll while working as a self-taught architect, Endell was continuously publishing articles, essays, and books on his thought of design. In 1908 he published the book The Beauty in the Big City. Within the book the vision of a modern city is developed through Endell’s artistic perspective. He describes the city as taking place at the beginning of the 20th century. He describes the city as a place were work, culture, and art can all be exchanged. A few additional architectural designs August Endell worked on were; 1912 design of the Racecourse Gallop of Mariendorf, 1912 the Trabrennbahn in Berlin Germany, and in 1914 the temporary location of the exhibition of Deutscher Werkbund.\n\nAugust Endell was a designer and an architect. From there he moved on to the idea of a new visual art and began creating fine art works that were architecturally structured while still expressing the qualities of other forms of art.\nHe began creating and building things such as gates, arches, stairway rails, and other decorative wall elements.\n\n"}
{"id": "3400692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3400692", "title": "Bilingual Education Act", "text": "Bilingual Education Act\n\nThe Bilingual Education Act (BEA) (), also known as Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Amendments of 1967 (), approved by the 90th United States Congress on January 2, 1968, and was the first United States federal legislation recognized the needs of limited English speaking ability (LESA) students. The BEA was introduced in 1967 by Texas senator Ralph Yarborough and was signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson on January 2, 1968. While some states, such as California and Texas, and numerous local school districts around the country already had policies and programs designed to meet the special educational needs of elementary and secondary school students not fluent in the English language, this act signaled that the federal government now also recognized the need for and value of bilingual education programs in U.S. public education. Passed on the heels of the Civil Rights movement, its purpose was to provide school districts with federal funds, in the form of competitive grants, to establish innovative educational programs for students with limited English speaking ability.\n\nThe BEA was a significant piece of education legislation. Its passage signaled \"a shift from the notion that students should be afforded equal educational opportunity to the idea that educational policy should work to equalize academic outcomes, even if such equity demanded providing different learning environments.\"\n\nAdditionally, it reflected changes in cultural perspectives towards diversity and immigration. The BEA was an important shift away from the late 1950s anticommunist sentiment where anything foreign was suspect, which had destroyed many earlier local and state attempts at bilingual education. Furthermore, it recognized that the federal government was responsible for educating immigrants to the US and opened doors for bilingual education projects on local, state, and federal levels.\n\nFurthermore, this legislation, successfully enacted into law largely thanks to the efforts of Spanish speakers, has become an important part of the \"polemic between assimilation and multiculturalism\" and the role that language education in our society. Because the BEA in its original form promoted celebrating linguistic and cultural differences and diversity in the U.S., it in many ways challenged assimilationist theories and the \"melting pot\" concept of the U.S. And yet, in its final form when passed, it did not mention the important link between language and culture, leaving the language vague.\n\nThe act additionally opened up a larger need for teachers who could teach language and other content within a language besides English. This placed a strain on the teaching pool available in 1968 and even today there is a shortage of teachers for these highly specialized positions. Culturally, it was argued in this time period that by teaching in a certain language it also taught specific values instead of just a way of communication.\n\nWhen Senator Yarborough introduced the bill to the Senate in 1967, he envisioned it as a way of addressing the \"'poor performance in school and high dropout rates... and great psychological harm' caused by 'English-only policies, no Spanish-speaking rules, and cultural degradation'\" that was evident in many schools at the time.\n\nAlthough the passage of the act was a bipartisan effort on behalf of Republicans and Democrats, it underwent significant changes between 1967 and 1968. Many of these changes were in the wording and framing of the act, which ultimately did not recognize the importance of biculturalism or the benefit of bilingualism or even the link between language and culture. Rather, it framed students of LESA as a \"problem\" that needed to be fixed. In addition, unlike what Yarborough had conceived, it provided no funding for permanent programs regarding students of LESA, as many people feared promoting a sense of entitlement in students and families benefitting from the act.\n\nThe BEA provided school districts with federal funds, in the form of competitive grants, to establish innovative educational programs for students with limited English speaking ability. The grants that the act provided were given directly to school districts and were to be used to buy resources for educational programs, to train teachers and teachers' aides, to develop and distribute materials and to create meaningful parental involvement projects. Although the act did not require the use of bilingual instruction or the use of a student's native language, its aim was to encourage innovative programs designed to teach students English. The act also gave school districts the opportunity to provide bilingual education programs without violating segregation laws, but at this time, participation was voluntary. Program effectiveness was evaluated at the end of every year and successful programs were eligible to receive federal funding for up to five years.\n\nBecause the BEA funding was provided in the form of grants, most of the financial clout lay with local and state education agencies (LEAs and SEAs). However, the federal government limited the reach of these funds in a few significant ways. To begin with, from a simple framing standpoint, the original 1968 BEA did not include any mention of instruction in or maintenance of a student's native language, limiting the potential impact of the act.\n\nFrom a financial perspective, the BEA was also limited. The only programs eligible for receiving funding were programs for children between the ages of 3 and 8. Because it was meant to redress the dropout issue, the act with this caveat on funding viewed high school students of LESA somewhat of a lost cause. In addition, the act did not fund any permanent programs for educating students of LESA, but only funding exploratory programs. As a result, it did not seek to truly address the burgeoning issue of how to educate students who were not English dominant. Lastly, the funds were at first reserved for communities whose average income was below the poverty line stated in the ESEA ($3,000 in 1968). This limitation on funding had the unfortunate side effect of framing the act as a somewhat of a handout to poor, Latino communities.\n\nDue to many of these limitations and the vague wording of much of the BEA, funding was limited in the first three years to $85 million. By 1972, \"only 100,391 students nationally, out of approximately 5,000,000 in need were enrolled in a Title VII-funded program.\"\n\nThe Bilingual Education Act of 1968 was not specific and participation by school districts was voluntary. As a result, Civil rights activists argued that the rights of minority-language students were being violated under this act. In 1974, three amendments were made to the original act in an attempt to clarify the intent and design of programs designated for the education of LESA students. There were two significant events that impacted these changes: the Lau V. Nichols case and the Equal Educational Opportunity Act of 1974.\n\n\"Lau v. Nichols\" was a class-action suit brought against the San Francisco School District and alleged that due to their inability to speak English, there were 1,800 Chinese students who were being denied an equal education. In 1974, the Supreme Court overruled the ruling of the lower courts and determined that the same resources, teachers and curriculum did not imply that the education was equal for students who had a limited command of the English language. In the same year as the Supreme Court's ruling, the Equal Education Opportunity Act was passed. By citing instructional programs as the means through which language barriers were to be broken, it effectively extended the Lau ruling to all students and school districts. Furthermore, school districts were required to have special programs for LESA students regardless of federal or state funding.\n\nThe amendments in 1974 served to do the following: \nFunding increased from $7.5 million in 1968 to $68 million and as a result, programs were able to impact 368,000 students.\n\nIn 1978, further amendments were made to extend the act and broaden the definition of eligible students. Specifically, these amendments served to do the following: \n\nFunding increased from $68 million in 1974 to $135 million which was enough to provide funding for 565 school districts and for secondary programs including service centers, graduate school fellowships and training for undergraduate students interested in becoming bilingual educators.\n\nIn 1984, the Bilingual Education Act was further modified. The amendments enacted during this time served to: \n\nFunding for these amendments was $139.4 million and there was a heavy emphasis placed on districts using the funding to build enough capacity to eventually be able to support LEP programs without federal government funding.\n\nThe BEA was amended again in 1988. The changes this year served to:\n\nFunding for the 1988 amendments was $159 million, with regulations for how the money should be divided. Specifically, at least 60% should be spent developing programs and at least 25% of funds should be spent on training.\n\nThe Bilingual Education Act (BEA) reauthorization in 1994 maintained the same tenets as the original BEA, introduced new grant categories, set up preference to programs promoting bilingualism, and took into account indigenous languages. Overall, the premise of this addition was to introduce a more systemic reform.\n\n\nNo Child Left Behind (NCLB), passed in 2002, had a significant impact on bilingual education and the Bilingual Education Act in the United States due to its emphasis on high-stakes testing. As a result of NCLB and its emphasis on testing, the Bilingual Education Act was renamed the English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement Act.\n\nThe name change alone of BEA under NCLB is significant in that it signals a shift in the philosophical approach to bilingual education. Essentially, even though the act still leaves with state and local educators the ability to choose from instructional methods, \"the statement of purpose and accountability requirements make clear that the primary objective is English acquisition.\"\n\nUnder NCLB, school success and failure is linked to performance on standardized tests. However, this measure subjects English Language Learners (ELLs) \"to critical assessments without adequate preparation.\" The lack of preparation is due to the fact that NCLB caps funding for bilingual education programs at half of what it had been and does not require that any bilingual education programs undergo periodic evaluation, a measure required by the \"Castenada v. Pickard\" court case. And yet, despite this lack of preparation, ELLs performance on standardized tests can jeopardize a school's access to funding. In essence, \"This turns the question of whether or not a school receives a failing label into a question of how many ELLs attend.\" Because the impact of NCLB on ELLs has significant implications on ELLs and their communities' access to education, NCLB is in conflict with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in that it denies \"access to a federally funded program based on their skin color or race.\" The changes in the BEA under NCLB created a grant program that attempted to enhance English language acquisition. The ruling placed ELL students in a similar classroom environment as their peers for whom English is not a second language. The law did not require schools to provide bilingual programs and placed them against the rigorous content standards put in place by State Education Agencies. When ELLs were tested with the same state assessments or the National Assessment for Educational Progress (NAEP), it was shown that compared to their fluently English-speaking peers the ELL students displayed larger deficits in both reading and math. The 2007 NAEP test, showed increased deficits in both math and reading following a surge of the ELL population in the United States. By 2005 the number of English-learners throughout the US had risen 57% over the prior decade to approximately 5.1 million students.\n\nAfter NCLB was enacted it was shown that there were sufficient numbers of prospective teachers, yet there were insufficient numbers of these teachers entering certain fields. Among these specializations were science, math, foreign languages, special education and namely bilingual education. Several initiatives formed to specifically recruit teachers to these specialization fields and allowed for alternative certification paths. These teacher shortages continue to exist today and are seen to a greater extent in high-poverty districts.\n\nThe act and NCLB say that the accommodations that it provides should be interpreted in concordance with federal civil rights laws. \"As interpreted by the U.S. Supreme Court, Congress, and federal civil rights officials, these provisions rely on terms like “affirmative steps” and “appropriate action” that give school districts the discretion to use a range of instructional approaches. As a result, under both Title VI and the EEOA, courts and federal enforcement agencies must decide on a case-by-case basis whether programs are in fact overcoming linguistic barriers to full participation.\" The policy still remains highly debated at both the state and federal level.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10916526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10916526", "title": "Burgundy Farm Country Day School", "text": "Burgundy Farm Country Day School\n\nBurgundy Farm Country Day School is an independent school on a campus in the Alexandria neighborhood of Fairfax County, Virginia, and in West Virginia. It serves students in grades Junior Kindergarten through Eighth Grade. \n\nThe school was founded in 1946 by a group of concerned parents, which included some Quakers and also included noted CBS broadcast journalist Eric Sevareid and his wife Lois. In 1950, Burgundy became the first school in the Commonwealth of Virginia to racially integrate and worked actively to attract non-white students.\n\nThe school's main campus is located on a former dairy farm just outside the Washington, DC/Northern Virginia beltway.\n\nBurgundy's second campus, a wildlife preserve in the Appalachian Mountains in West Virginia called the Burgundy Center for Wildlife Studies, is commonly referred to as \"the Cove.\" All classes, beginning with first grade, visit the Cove for intensive study in science and natural history biannually.\nThe Cove recently acquired another , from landowners surrounding the property. The funding for the purchase of these extra 24 acres came from \"The Big Hike\", in which a Burgundy teacher, sometimes accompanied by students, hiked from his home in Alexandria to The Cove.\n\nThe two campuses both offer a summer camp with open enrollment. The main campus is a summer day camp for 3 years, 8 months to 12 years old. The Burgundy Center campus hosts primarily sleep-away nature-oriented summer camp programs for 8 to 15 year olds and adults. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6117", "title": "Charles Sanders Peirce", "text": "Charles Sanders Peirce\n\nCharles Sanders Peirce ( \"purse\"; 10 September 1839 – 19 April 1914) was an American philosopher, logician, mathematician, and scientist who is sometimes known as \"the father of pragmatism\". He was educated as a chemist and employed as a scientist for 30 years. Today he is appreciated largely for his contributions to logic, mathematics, philosophy, scientific methodology, and semiotics, and for his founding of pragmatism.\n\nAn innovator in mathematics, statistics, philosophy, research methodology, and various sciences, Peirce considered himself, first and foremost, a logician. He made major contributions to logic, but logic for him encompassed much of that which is now called epistemology and philosophy of science. He saw logic as the formal branch of semiotics, of which he is a founder, which foreshadowed the debate among logical positivists and proponents of philosophy of language that dominated 20th century Western philosophy; additionally, he defined the concept of abductive reasoning, as well as rigorously formulated mathematical induction and deductive reasoning. As early as 1886 he saw that logical operations could be carried out by electrical switching circuits; the same idea was used decades later to produce digital computers.\n\nIn 1934, the philosopher Paul Weiss called Peirce \"the most original and versatile of American philosophers and America's greatest logician.\" \"Webster's Biographical Dictionary\" said in 1943 that Peirce was \"now regarded as the most original thinker and greatest logician of his time.\" Keith Devlin similarly referred to Peirce as one of the greatest philosophers ever.\n\nPeirce was born at 3 Phillips Place in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He was the son of Sarah Hunt Mills and Benjamin Peirce, himself a professor of astronomy and mathematics at Harvard University and perhaps the first serious research mathematician in America. At age 12, Charles read his older brother's copy of Richard Whately's \"Elements of Logic\", then the leading English-language text on the subject. So began his lifelong fascination with logic and reasoning. He went on to earn the A.B. and A.M. (1862) from Harvard; in 1863 the Lawrence Scientific School awarded him a B.Sc. that was Harvard's first \"summa cum laude\" chemistry degree; and otherwise his academic record was undistinguished. At Harvard, he began lifelong friendships with Francis Ellingwood Abbot, Chauncey Wright, and William James. One of his Harvard instructors, Charles William Eliot, formed an unfavorable opinion of Peirce. This opinion proved fateful, because Eliot, while President of Harvard 1869–1909—a period encompassing nearly all of Peirce's working life—repeatedly vetoed Harvard's employing Peirce in any capacity.\n\nPeirce suffered from his late teens onward from a nervous condition then known as \"facial neuralgia\", which would today be diagnosed as trigeminal neuralgia. His biographer, Joseph Brent, says that when in the throes of its pain \"he was, at first, almost stupefied, and then aloof, cold, depressed, extremely suspicious, impatient of the slightest crossing, and subject to violent outbursts of temper\". Its consequences may have led to the social isolation which made his life's later years so tragic.\n\nBetween 1859 and 1891, Peirce was intermittently employed in various scientific capacities by the United States Coast Survey and its successor, the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, where he enjoyed his highly influential father's protection until the latter's death in 1880. That employment exempted Peirce from having to take part in the American Civil War; it would have been very awkward for him to do so, as the Boston Brahmin Peirces sympathized with the Confederacy. At the Survey, he worked mainly in geodesy and gravimetry, refining the use of pendulums to determine small local variations in the Earth's gravity. He was elected a resident fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in January 1867. The Survey sent him to Europe five times, first in 1871 as part of a group sent to observe a solar eclipse; there, he sought out Augustus De Morgan, William Stanley Jevons, and William Kingdon Clifford, British mathematicians and logicians whose turn of mind resembled his own. From 1869 to 1872, he was employed as an Assistant in Harvard's astronomical observatory, doing important work on determining the brightness of stars and the shape of the Milky Way. On April 20, 1877 he was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences. Also in 1877, he proposed measuring the meter as so many wavelengths of light of a certain frequency, the kind of definition employed from 1960 to 1983.\n\nDuring the 1880s, Peirce's indifference to bureaucratic detail waxed while his Survey work's quality and timeliness waned. Peirce took years to write reports that he should have completed in months. Meanwhile, he wrote entries, ultimately thousands during 1883–1909, on philosophy, logic, science, and other subjects for the encyclopedic \"Century Dictionary\". In 1885, an investigation by the Allison Commission exonerated Peirce, but led to the dismissal of Superintendent Julius Hilgard and several other Coast Survey employees for misuse of public funds. In 1891, Peirce resigned from the Coast Survey at Superintendent Thomas Corwin Mendenhall's request. He never again held regular employment.\n\nIn 1879, Peirce was appointed Lecturer in logic at Johns Hopkins University, which had strong departments in a number of areas that interested him, such as philosophy (Royce and Dewey completed their PhDs at Hopkins), psychology (taught by G. Stanley Hall and studied by Joseph Jastrow, who coauthored a landmark empirical study with Peirce), and mathematics (taught by J. J. Sylvester, who came to admire Peirce's work on mathematics and logic). His \"Studies in Logic by Members of the Johns Hopkins University\" (1883) contained works by himself and Allan Marquand, Christine Ladd, Benjamin Ives Gilman, and Oscar Howard Mitchell, several of whom were his graduate students. Peirce's nontenured position at Hopkins was the only academic appointment he ever held.\n\nBrent documents something Peirce never suspected, namely that his efforts to obtain academic employment, grants, and scientific respectability were repeatedly frustrated by the covert opposition of a major Canadian-American scientist of the day, Simon Newcomb. Peirce's efforts may also have been hampered by what Brent characterizes as “his difficult personality”. Conversely, Keith Devlin believes that Peirce's work was too far ahead of his time to be appreciated by the academic establishment of the day and that this played a large role in his inability to obtain a tenured position.\n\nPeirce's personal life undoubtedly worked against his professional success. After his first wife, Harriet Melusina Fay (\"Zina\"), left him in 1875, Peirce, while still legally married, became involved with Juliette, whose last name, given variously as Froissy and Pourtalai, and nationality (she spoke French) remains uncertain. When his divorce from Zina became final in 1883, he married Juliette. That year, Newcomb pointed out to a Johns Hopkins trustee that Peirce, while a Hopkins employee, had lived and traveled with a woman to whom he was not married; the ensuing scandal led to his dismissal in January 1884. Over the years Peirce sought academic employment at various universities without success. He had no children by either marriage.\n\nIn 1887 Peirce spent part of his inheritance from his parents to buy of rural land near Milford, Pennsylvania, which never yielded an economic return. There he had an 1854 farmhouse remodeled to his design. The Peirces named the property \"Arisbe\". There they lived with few interruptions for the rest of their lives, Charles writing prolifically, much of it unpublished to this day (see Works). Living beyond their means soon led to grave financial and legal difficulties. He spent much of his last two decades unable to afford heat in winter and subsisting on old bread donated by the local baker. Unable to afford new stationery, he wrote on the verso side of old manuscripts. An outstanding warrant for assault and unpaid debts led to his being a fugitive in New York City for a while. Several people, including his brother James Mills Peirce and his neighbors, relatives of Gifford Pinchot, settled his debts and paid his property taxes and mortgage.\n\nPeirce did some scientific and engineering consulting and wrote much for meager pay, mainly encyclopedic dictionary entries, and reviews for \"The Nation\" (with whose editor, Wendell Phillips Garrison, he became friendly). He did translations for the Smithsonian Institution, at its director Samuel Langley's instigation. Peirce also did substantial mathematical calculations for Langley's research on powered flight. Hoping to make money, Peirce tried inventing. He began but did not complete a number of books. In 1888, President Grover Cleveland appointed him to the Assay Commission.\n\nFrom 1890 on, he had a friend and admirer in Judge Francis C. Russell of Chicago, who introduced Peirce to editor Paul Carus and owner Edward C. Hegeler of the pioneering American philosophy journal \"The Monist\", which eventually published at least 14 articles by Peirce. He wrote many texts in James Mark Baldwin's \"Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology\" (1901–1905); half of those credited to him appear to have been written actually by Christine Ladd-Franklin under his supervision. He applied in 1902 to the newly formed Carnegie Institution for a grant to write a systematic book of his life's work. The application was doomed; his nemesis, Newcomb, served on the Institution's executive committee, and its President had been the President of Johns Hopkins at the time of Peirce's dismissal.\n\nThe one who did the most to help Peirce in these desperate times was his old friend William James, dedicating his \"Will to Believe\" (1897) to Peirce, and arranging for Peirce to be paid to give two series of lectures at or near Harvard (1898 and 1903). Most important, each year from 1907 until James's death in 1910, James wrote to his friends in the Boston intelligentsia to request financial aid for Peirce; the fund continued even after James died. Peirce reciprocated by designating James's eldest son as his heir should Juliette predecease him. It has been believed that this was also why Peirce used \"Santiago\" (\"St. James\" in English) as a middle name, but he appeared in print as early as 1890 as Charles Santiago Peirce. (See Charles Santiago Sanders Peirce for discussion and references).\n\nPeirce died destitute in Milford, Pennsylvania, twenty years before his widow. Juliette Peirce kept the urn with Peirce’s ashes at Arisbe. In 1934, Pennsylvania Governor Gifford Pinchot arranged for Juliette’s burial on Milford Cemetery. The urn with Peirce’s ashes was interred with Juliette.\n\nPeirce grew up in a home where the supremacy of the white Anglo-Saxon male was taken for granted and Negro slavery was considered natural.\n\nUntil the outbreak of the Civil War his father described himself as a secessionist, but after the outbreak of the war, this stopped and he became a Union partisan, providing donations to the Sanitary Commission, the leading Northern war charity. No members of the Peirce family volunteered or enlisted.\nPeirce shared his father's views and liked to use the following syllogism to illustrate the unreliability of traditional forms of logic. \"See: Peirce's law#Other proofs of Peirce's law\".\n\n<poem>\nAll Men are equal in their political rights.\nNegroes are Men.\nTherefore, negroes are equal in political rights to whites.\n</poem>\n\nBertrand Russell (1959) wrote, \"Beyond doubt [...] he was one of the most original minds of the later nineteenth century, and certainly the greatest American thinker ever.\" (Russell and Whitehead's \"Principia Mathematica\", published from 1910 to 1913, does not mention Peirce; Peirce's work was not widely known until later.) A. N. Whitehead, while reading some of Peirce's unpublished manuscripts soon after arriving at Harvard in 1924, was struck by how Peirce had anticipated his own \"process\" thinking. (On Peirce and process metaphysics, see Lowe 1964.) Karl Popper viewed Peirce as \"one of the greatest philosophers of all times\". Yet Peirce's achievements were not immediately recognized. His imposing contemporaries William James and Josiah Royce admired him, and Cassius Jackson Keyser at Columbia and C. K. Ogden wrote about Peirce with respect, but to no immediate effect.\n\nThe first scholar to give Peirce his considered professional attention was Royce's student Morris Raphael Cohen, the editor of an anthology of Peirce's writings titled \"Chance, Love, and Logic\" (1923) and the author of the first bibliography of Peirce's scattered writings. John Dewey studied under Peirce at Johns Hopkins and, from 1916 onward, Dewey's writings repeatedly mention Peirce with deference. His 1938 \"Logic: The Theory of Inquiry\" is much influenced by Peirce. The publication of the first six volumes of \"Collected Papers\" (1931–1935), the most important event to date in Peirce studies and one that Cohen made possible by raising the needed funds, did not prompt an outpouring of secondary studies. The editors of those volumes, Charles Hartshorne and Paul Weiss, did not become Peirce specialists. Early landmarks of the secondary literature include the monographs by Buchler (1939), Feibleman (1946), and Goudge (1950), the 1941 Ph.D. thesis by Arthur W. Burks (who went on to edit volumes 7 and 8), and the studies edited by Wiener and Young (1952). The Charles S. Peirce Society was founded in 1946. Its \"Transactions\", an academic quarterly specializing in Peirce, pragmatism, and American philosophy, has appeared since 1965. (See Phillips 2014, 62 for discussion of Peirce and Dewey relative to transactionalism).\n\nIn 1949, while doing unrelated archival work, the historian of mathematics Carolyn Eisele (1902–2000) chanced on an autograph letter by Peirce. So began her 40 years of research on Peirce the mathematician and scientist, culminating in Eisele (1976, 1979, 1985). Beginning around 1960, the philosopher and historian of ideas Max Fisch (1900–1995) emerged as an authority on Peirce; Fisch (1986) includes many of his relevant articles, including a wide-ranging survey (Fisch 1986: 422–48) of the impact of Peirce's thought through 1983.\n\nPeirce has gained a significant international following, marked by university research centers devoted to Peirce studies and pragmatism in Brazil (CeneP/CIEP), Finland (HPRC and ), Germany (Wirth's group, Hoffman's and Otte's group, and Deuser's and Härle's group), France (L'I.R.S.C.E.), Spain (GEP), and Italy (CSP). His writings have been translated into several languages, including German, French, Finnish, Spanish, and Swedish. Since 1950, there have been French, Italian, Spanish, British, and Brazilian Peirceans of note. For many years, the North American philosophy department most devoted to Peirce was the University of Toronto's, thanks in good part to the leadership of Thomas Goudge and David Savan. In recent years, U.S. Peirce scholars have clustered at Indiana University – Purdue University Indianapolis, home of the Peirce Edition Project (PEP), and the Pennsylvania State University.\n\nIn recent years, Peirce's trichotomy of signs is exploited by a growing number of practitioners for marketing and design tasks.\n\nPeirce's reputation rests largely on a number of academic papers published in American scientific and scholarly journals such as \"Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences\", the \"Journal of Speculative Philosophy\", \"The Monist\", \"Popular Science Monthly\", the \"American Journal of Mathematics\", \"Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences\", \"The Nation\", and others. See Articles by Peirce, published in his lifetime for an extensive list with links to them online. The only full-length book (neither extract nor pamphlet) that Peirce authored and saw published in his lifetime was \"Photometric Researches\" (1878), a 181-page monograph on the applications of spectrographic methods to astronomy. While at Johns Hopkins, he edited \"Studies in Logic\" (1883), containing chapters by himself and his graduate students. Besides lectures during his years (1879–1884) as Lecturer in Logic at Johns Hopkins, he gave at least nine series of lectures, many now published; see Lectures by Peirce.\n\nHarvard University obtained from Peirce's widow soon after his death the papers found in his study, but did not microfilm them until 1964. Only after Richard Robin (1967) catalogued this \"Nachlass\" did it become clear that Peirce had left approximately 1650 unpublished manuscripts, totaling over 100,000 pages, mostly still unpublished except on microfilm. On the vicissitudes of Peirce's papers, see Houser (1989). Reportedly the papers remain in unsatisfactory condition.\n\nThe first published anthology of Peirce's articles was the one-volume \"Chance, Love and Logic: Philosophical Essays\", edited by Morris Raphael Cohen, 1923, still in print. Other one-volume anthologies were published in 1940, 1957, 1958, 1972, 1994, and 2009, most still in print. The main posthumous editions of Peirce's works in their long trek to light, often multi-volume, and some still in print, have included:\n\n1931–1958: \"Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce\" (CP), 8 volumes, includes many published works, along with a selection of previously unpublished work and a smattering of his correspondence. This long-time standard edition drawn from Peirce's work from the 1860s to 1913 remains the most comprehensive survey of his prolific output from 1893 to 1913. It is organized thematically, but texts (including lecture series) are often split up across volumes, while texts from various stages in Peirce's development are often combined, requiring frequent visits to editors' notes. Edited (1–6) by Charles Hartshorne and Paul Weiss and (7–8) by Arthur Burks, in print and online.\n\n1975–1987: \"Charles Sanders Peirce: Contributions to\" The Nation, 4 volumes, includes Peirce's more than 300 reviews and articles published 1869–1908 in \"The Nation\". Edited by Kenneth Laine Ketner and James Edward Cook, online.\n\n1976: \"The New Elements of Mathematics by Charles S. Peirce\", 4 volumes in 5, included many previously unpublished Peirce manuscripts on mathematical subjects, along with Peirce's important published mathematical articles. Edited by Carolyn Eisele, back in print.\n\n1977: \"Semiotic and Significs: The Correspondence between C. S. Peirce and Victoria Lady Welby\" (2nd edition 2001), included Peirce's entire correspondence (1903–1912) with Victoria, Lady Welby. Peirce's other published correspondence is largely limited to the 14 letters included in volume 8 of the \"Collected Papers\", and the 20-odd pre-1890 items included so far in the \"Writings\". Edited by Charles S. Hardwick with James Cook, out of print.\n\n1982–now: \"Writings of Charles S. Peirce, A Chronological Edition\" (W), Volumes 1–6 & 8, of a projected 30. The limited coverage, and defective editing and organization, of the \"Collected Papers\" led Max Fisch and others in the 1970s to found the Peirce Edition Project (PEP), whose mission is to prepare a more complete critical chronological edition. Only seven volumes have appeared to date, but they cover the period from 1859–1892, when Peirce carried out much of his best-known work. \"Writings of Charles S. Peirce\", 8 was published in November 2010; and work continues on \"Writings of Charles S. Peirce\", 7, 9, and 11. In print and online.\n\n1985: \"Historical Perspectives on Peirce's Logic of Science: A History of Science\", 2 volumes. Auspitz has said, \"The extent of Peirce's immersion in the science of his day is evident in his reviews in the \"Nation\" [...] and in his papers, grant applications, and publishers' prospectuses in the history and practice of science\", referring latterly to \"Historical Perspectives\". Edited by Carolyn Eisele, back in print.\n\n1992: \"Reasoning and the Logic of Things\" collects in one place Peirce's 1898 series of lectures invited by William James. Edited by Kenneth Laine Ketner, with commentary by Hilary Putnam, in print.\n\n1992–1998: \"The Essential Peirce\" (EP), 2 volumes, is an important recent sampler of Peirce's philosophical writings. Edited (1) by Nathan Hauser and Christian Kloesel and (2) by \"Peirce Edition Project\" editors, in print.\n\n1997: \"Pragmatism as a Principle and Method of Right Thinking\" collects Peirce's 1903 Harvard \"Lectures on Pragmatism\" in a study edition, including drafts, of Peirce's lecture manuscripts, which had been previously published in abridged form; the lectures now also appear in \"The Essential Peirce\", 2. Edited by Patricia Ann Turisi, in print.\n\n2010: \"Philosophy of Mathematics: Selected Writings\" collects important writings by Peirce on the subject, many not previously in print. Edited by Matthew E. Moore, in print.\n\nPeirce's most important work in pure mathematics was in logical and foundational areas. He also worked on linear algebra, matrices, various geometries, topology and Listing numbers, Bell numbers, graphs, the four-color problem, and the nature of continuity.\n\nHe worked on applied mathematics in economics, engineering, and map projections (such as the Peirce quincuncial projection), and was especially active in probability and statistics.\n\n\nPeirce made a number of striking discoveries in formal logic and foundational mathematics, nearly all of which came to be appreciated only long after he died:\n\nIn 1860 he suggested a cardinal arithmetic for infinite numbers, years before any work by Georg Cantor (who completed his dissertation in 1867) and without access to Bernard Bolzano's 1851 (posthumous) \"Paradoxien des Unendlichen\".\n\nIn 1880–1981 he showed how Boolean algebra could be done via a repeated sufficient single binary operation (logical NOR), anticipating Henry M. Sheffer by 33 years. (See also De Morgan's Laws.)\n\nIn 1881 he set out the axiomatization of natural number arithmetic, a few years before Richard Dedekind and Giuseppe Peano. In the same paper Peirce gave, years before Dedekind, the first purely cardinal definition of a finite set in the sense now known as \"Dedekind-finite\", and implied by the same stroke an important formal definition of an infinite set (Dedekind-infinite), as a set that can be put into a one-to-one correspondence with one of its proper subsets.\n\nIn 1885 he distinguished between first-order and second-order quantification. In the same paper he set out what can be read as the first (primitive) axiomatic set theory, anticipating Zermelo by about two decades (Brady 2000, pp. 132–33).\n\nIn 1886, he saw that Boolean calculations could be carried out via electrical switches, anticipating Claude Shannon by more than 50 years. \nBy the later 1890s he was devising existential graphs, a diagrammatic notation for the predicate calculus. Based on them are John F. Sowa's conceptual graphs and Sun-Joo Shin's diagrammatic reasoning.\n\n\nPeirce wrote drafts for an introductory textbook, with the working title \"The New Elements of Mathematics\", that presented mathematics from an original standpoint. Those drafts and many other of his previously unpublished mathematical manuscripts finally appeared in \"The New Elements of Mathematics by Charles S. Peirce\" (1976), edited by mathematician Carolyn Eisele.\n\n\nPeirce agreed with Auguste Comte in regarding mathematics as more basic than philosophy and the special sciences (of nature and mind). Peirce classified mathematics into three subareas: (1) mathematics of logic, (2) discrete series, and (3) pseudo-continua (as he called them, including the real numbers) and continua. Influenced by his father Benjamin, Peirce argued that mathematics studies purely hypothetical objects and is not just the science of quantity but is more broadly the science which draws necessary conclusions; that mathematics aids logic, not vice versa; and that logic itself is part of philosophy and is the science \"about\" drawing conclusions necessary and otherwise.\n\n Beginning with his first paper on the \"Logic of Relatives\" (1870), Peirce extended the theory of relations that Augustus De Morgan had just recently awakened from its Cinderella slumbers. Much of the mathematics of relations now taken for granted was \"borrowed\" from Peirce, not always with all due credit; on that and on how the young Bertrand Russell, especially his \"Principles of Mathematics\" and \"Principia Mathematica\", did not do Peirce justice, see Anellis (1995). In 1918 the logician C. I. Lewis wrote, \"The contributions of C.S. Peirce to symbolic logic are more numerous and varied than those of any other writer—at least in the nineteenth century.\" Beginning in 1940, Alfred Tarski and his students rediscovered aspects of Peirce's larger vision of relational logic, developing the perspective of relation algebra.\n\nRelational logic gained applications. In mathematics, it influenced the abstract analysis of E. H. Moore and the lattice theory of Garrett Birkhoff. In computer science, the relational model for databases was developed with Peircean ideas in work of Edgar F. Codd, who was a doctoral student of Arthur W. Burks, a Peirce scholar. In economics, relational logic was used by Frank P. Ramsey, John von Neumann, and Paul Samuelson to study preferences and utility and by Kenneth J. Arrow in \"Social Choice and Individual Values\", following Arrow's association with Tarski at City College of New York.\n\nOn Peirce and his contemporaries Ernst Schröder and Gottlob Frege, Hilary Putnam (1982) documented that Frege's work on the logic of quantifiers had little influence on his contemporaries, although it was published four years before the work of Peirce and his student Oscar Howard Mitchell. Putnam found that mathematicians and logicians learned about the logic of quantifiers through the independent work of Peirce and Mitchell, particularly through Peirce's \"On the Algebra of Logic: A Contribution to the Philosophy of Notation\" (1885), published in the premier American mathematical journal of the day, and cited by Peano and Schröder, among others, who ignored Frege. They also adopted and modified Peirce's notations, typographical variants of those now used. Peirce apparently was ignorant of Frege's work, despite their overlapping achievements in logic, philosophy of language, and the foundations of mathematics.\n\nPeirce's work on formal logic had admirers besides Ernst Schröder:\n\nA philosophy of logic, grounded in his categories and semiotic, can be extracted from Peirce's writings and, along with Peirce's logical work more generally, is exposited and defended in Hilary Putnam (1982);the Introduction in Nathan Houser \"et al.\" (1997); and Randall Dipert's chapter in Cheryl Misak (2004).\n\nContinuity and synechism are central in Peirce's philosophy: \"I did not at first suppose that it was, as I gradually came to find it, the master-Key of philosophy\".\n\nFrom a mathematical point of view, he embraced infinitesimals and worked long on the mathematics of continua. He long held that the real numbers constitute a pseudo-continuum; that a true continuum is the real subject matter of \"analysis situs\" (topology); and that a true continuum of instants exceeds—and within any lapse of time has room for—any Aleph number (any infinite \"multitude\" as he called it) of instants.\n\nIn 1908 Peirce wrote that he found that a true continuum might have or lack such room. Jérôme Havenel (2008): \"It is on 26 May 1908, that Peirce finally gave up his idea that in every continuum there is room for whatever collection of any multitude. From now on, there are different kinds of continua, which have different properties.\"\n\nPeirce held that science achieves statistical probabilities, not certainties, and that spontaneity (absolute chance) is real (see Tychism on his view). Most of his statistical writings promote the frequency interpretation of probability (objective ratios of cases), and many of his writings express skepticism about (and criticize the use of) probability when such models are not based on objective randomization. Though Peirce was largely a frequentist, his possible world semantics introduced the \"propensity\" theory of probability before Karl Popper. Peirce (sometimes with Joseph Jastrow) investigated the probability judgments of experimental subjects, \"perhaps the very first\" elicitation and estimation of subjective probabilities in experimental psychology and (what came to be called) Bayesian statistics.\n\nPeirce was one of the founders of statistics. He formulated modern statistics in \"Illustrations of the Logic of Science\" (1877–1878) and \"A Theory of Probable Inference\" (1883). With a repeated measures design, Charles Sanders Peirce and Joseph Jastrow introduced blinded, controlled randomized experiments in 1884 (Hacking 1990:205) (before Ronald A. Fisher). He invented optimal design for experiments on gravity, in which he \"corrected the means\". He used correlation and smoothing. Peirce extended the work on outliers by Benjamin Peirce, his father. He introduced terms \"confidence\" and \"likelihood\" (before Jerzy Neyman and Fisher). (See Stephen Stigler's historical books and Ian Hacking 1990).\n\nPeirce was a working scientist for 30 years, and arguably was a professional philosopher only during the five years he lectured at Johns Hopkins. He learned philosophy mainly by reading, each day, a few pages of Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\", in the original German, while a Harvard undergraduate. His writings bear on a wide array of disciplines, including mathematics, logic, philosophy, statistics, astronomy, metrology, geodesy, experimental psychology, economics, linguistics, and the history and philosophy of science. This work has enjoyed renewed interest and approval, a revival inspired not only by his anticipations of recent scientific developments but also by his demonstration of how philosophy can be applied effectively to human problems.\n\nPeirce's philosophy includes (see below in related sections) a pervasive three-category system, belief that truth is immutable and is both independent from actual opinion (fallibilism) and discoverable (no radical skepticism), logic as formal semiotic on signs, on arguments, and on inquiry's ways—including philosophical pragmatism (which he founded), critical common-sensism, and scientific method—and, in metaphysics: Scholastic realism, e.g. John Duns Scotus, belief in God, freedom, and at least an attenuated immortality, objective idealism, and belief in the reality of continuity and of absolute chance, mechanical necessity, and creative love. In his work, fallibilism and pragmatism may seem to work somewhat like skepticism and positivism, respectively, in others' work. However, for Peirce, fallibilism is balanced by an anti-skepticism and is a basis for belief in the reality of absolute chance and of continuity, and pragmatism commits one to anti-nominalist belief in the reality of the general (CP 5.453–57).\n\nFor Peirce, First Philosophy, which he also called cenoscopy, is less basic than mathematics and more basic than the special sciences (of nature and mind). It studies positive phenomena in general, phenomena available to any person at any waking moment, and does not settle questions by resorting to special experiences. He divided such philosophy into (1) phenomenology (which he also called phaneroscopy or categorics), (2) normative sciences (esthetics, ethics, and logic), and (3) metaphysics; his views on them are discussed in order below.\n\nOn May 14, 1867, the 27-year-old Peirce presented a paper entitled \"On a New List of Categories\" to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, which published it the following year. The paper outlined a theory of predication, involving three universal categories that Peirce developed in response to reading Aristotle, Immanuel Kant, and G. W. F. Hegel, categories that Peirce applied throughout his work for the rest of his life. Peirce scholars generally regard the \"New List\" as foundational or breaking the ground for Peirce's \"architectonic\", his blueprint for a pragmatic philosophy. In the categories one will discern, concentrated, the pattern that one finds formed by the three grades of clearness in \"\" (1878 paper foundational to pragmatism), and in numerous other trichotomies in his work.\n\n\"On a New List of Categories\" is cast as a Kantian deduction; it is short but dense and difficult to summarize. The following table is compiled from that and later works. In 1893, Peirce restated most of it for a less advanced audience. \n\nPeirce did not write extensively in aesthetics and ethics, but came by 1902 to hold that aesthetics, ethics, and logic, in that order, comprise the normative sciences. He characterized aesthetics as the study of the good (grasped as the admirable), and thus of the ends governing all conduct and thought.\n\nPeirce regarded logic \"per se\" as a division of philosophy, as a normative science based on esthetics and ethics, as more basic than metaphysics, and as \"the art of devising methods of research\". More generally, as inference, \"logic is rooted in the social principle\", since inference depends on a standpoint that, in a sense, is unlimited. Peirce called (with no sense of deprecation) \"mathematics of logic\" much of the kind of thing which, in current research and applications, is called simply \"logic\". He was productive in both (philosophical) logic and logic's mathematics, which were connected deeply in his work and thought.\n\nPeirce argued that logic is formal semiotic, the formal study of signs in the broadest sense, not only signs that are artificial, linguistic, or symbolic, but also signs that are semblances or are indexical such as reactions. Peirce held that \"all this universe is perfused with signs, if it is not composed exclusively of signs\", along with their representational and inferential relations. He argued that, since all thought takes time, all thought is in signs and sign processes (\"semiosis\") such as the inquiry process. He divided logic into: (1) speculative grammar, or stechiology, on how signs can be meaningful and, in relation to that, what kinds of signs there are, how they combine, and how some embody or incorporate others; (2) logical critic, or logic proper, on the modes of inference; and (3) speculative or universal rhetoric, or methodeutic, the philosophical theory of inquiry, including pragmatism.\n\nIn his \"F.R.L.\" [First Rule of Logic] (1899), Peirce states that the first, and \"in one sense, the sole\", rule of reason is that, \"to learn, one needs to desire to learn\" and desire it without resting satisfied with that which one is inclined to think. So, the first rule is, \"to wonder\". Peirce proceeds to a critical theme in research practices and the shaping of theories:\nDo not block the way of inquiry.\nPeirce adds, that method and economy are best in research but no outright sin inheres in trying any theory in the sense that the investigation via its trial adoption can proceed unimpeded and undiscouraged, and that \"the one unpardonable offence\" is a philosophical barricade against truth's advance, an offense to which \"metaphysicians in all ages have shown themselves the most addicted\". Peirce in many writings holds that logic precedes metaphysics (ontological, religious, and physical).\n\nPeirce goes on to list four common barriers to inquiry: (1) Assertion of absolute certainty; (2) maintaining that something is absolutely unknowable; (3) maintaining that something is absolutely inexplicable because absolutely basic or ultimate; (4) holding that perfect exactitude is possible, especially such as to quite preclude unusual and anomalous phenomena. To refuse absolute theoretical certainty is the heart of \"fallibilism\", which Peirce unfolds into refusals to set up any of the listed barriers. Peirce elsewhere argues (1897) that logic's presupposition of fallibilism leads at length to the view that chance and continuity are very real (tychism and synechism).\n\nThe First Rule of Logic pertains to the mind's presuppositions in undertaking reason and logic, presuppositions, for instance, that truth and the real do not depend on yours or my opinion of them but do depend on representational relation and consist in the destined end in investigation taken far enough (see below). He describes such ideas as, collectively, hopes which, in particular cases, one is unable seriously to doubt.\n\n In three articles in 1868–1869, Peirce rejected mere verbal or hyperbolic doubt and first or ultimate principles, and argued that we have (as he numbered them):\n(The above sense of the term \"intuition\" is almost Kant's, said Peirce. It differs from the current looser sense that encompasses instinctive or anyway half-conscious inference.)\n\nPeirce argued that those incapacities imply the reality of the general and of the continuous, the validity of the modes of reasoning, and the falsity of philosophical Cartesianism (see below).\n\nPeirce rejected the conception (usually ascribed to Kant) of the unknowable thing-in-itself and later said that to \"dismiss make-believes\" is a prerequisite for pragmatism.\n\nPeirce sought, through his wide-ranging studies through the decades, formal philosophical ways to articulate thought's processes, and also to explain the workings of science. These inextricably entangled questions of a dynamics of inquiry rooted in nature and nurture led him to develop his semiotic with very broadened conceptions of signs and inference, and, as its culmination, a theory of inquiry for the task of saying 'how science works' and devising research methods. This would be logic by the medieval definition taught for centuries: art of arts, science of sciences, having the way to the principles of all methods. Influences radiate from points on parallel lines of inquiry in Aristotle's work, in such \"loci\" as: the basic terminology of psychology in \"On the Soul\"; the founding description of sign relations in \"On Interpretation\"; and the differentiation of inference into three modes that are commonly translated into English as \"abduction\", \"deduction\", and \"induction\", in the \"Prior Analytics\", as well as inference by analogy (called \"paradeigma\" by Aristotle), which Peirce regarded as involving the other three modes.\n\nPeirce began writing on semiotic in the 1860s, around the time when he devised his system of three categories. He called it both \"semiotic\" and \"semeiotic\". Both are current in singular and plural. He based it on the conception of a triadic sign relation, and defined \"semiosis\" as \"action, or influence, which is, or involves, a cooperation of \"three\" subjects, such as a sign, its object, and its interpretant, this tri-relative influence not being in any way resolvable into actions between pairs\". As to signs in thought, Peirce emphasized the reverse:\nPeirce held that all thought is in signs, issuing in and from interpretation, where 'sign' is the word for the broadest variety of conceivable semblances, diagrams, metaphors, symptoms, signals, designations, symbols, texts, even mental concepts and ideas, all as determinations of a mind or \"quasi-mind\", that which at least functions like a mind, as in the work of crystals or bees—the focus is on sign action in general rather than on psychology, linguistics, or social studies (fields which he also pursued).\n\nInquiry is a kind of inference process, a manner of thinking and semiosis. Global divisions of ways for phenomena to stand as signs, and the subsumption of inquiry and thinking within inference as a sign process, enable the study of inquiry on semiotics' three levels:\n\n\nPeirce uses examples often from common experience, but defines and discusses such things as assertion and interpretation in terms of philosophical logic. In a formal vein, Peirce said:\n\nPeirce's theory of signs is known to be one of the most complex semiotic theories due to its generalistic claim. Anything is a sign—not absolutely as itself, but instead in some relation or other. The \"sign relation\" is the key. It defines three roles encompassing (1) the sign, (2) the sign's subject matter, called its \"object\", and (3) the sign's meaning or ramification as formed into a kind of effect called its \"interpretant\" (a further sign, for example a translation). It is an irreducible \"triadic relation\", according to Peirce. The roles are distinct even when the things that fill those roles are not. The roles are but three; a sign of an object leads to one or more interpretants, and, as signs, they lead to further interpretants.\n\n\"Extension × intension = information.\" Two traditional approaches to sign relation, necessary though insufficient, are the way of \"extension\" (a sign's objects, also called breadth, denotation, or application) and the way of \"intension\" (the objects' characteristics, qualities, attributes referenced by the sign, also called depth, comprehension, significance, or connotation). Peirce adds a third, the way of \"information\", including change of information, to integrate the other two approaches into a unified whole. For example, because of the equation above, if a term's total amount of information stays the same, then the more that the term 'intends' or signifies about objects, the fewer are the objects to which the term 'extends' or applies.\n\n\"Determination.\" A sign depends on its object in such a way as to represent its object—the object enables and, in a sense, determines the sign. A physically causal sense of this stands out when a sign consists in an indicative reaction. The interpretant depends likewise on both the sign and the object—an object determines a sign to determine an interpretant. But this determination is not a succession of dyadic events, like a row of toppling dominoes; sign determination is triadic. For example, an interpretant does not merely represent something which represented an object; instead an interpretant represents something \"as\" a sign representing the object. The object (be it a quality or fact or law or even fictional) determines the sign to an interpretant through one's collateral experience with the object, in which the object is found or from which it is recalled, as when a sign consists in a chance semblance of an absent object. Peirce used the word \"determine\" not in a strictly deterministic sense, but in a sense of \"specializes,\" \"bestimmt\", involving variable amount, like an influence. Peirce came to define representation and interpretation in terms of (triadic) determination. The object determines the sign to determine another sign—the interpretant—to be related to the object \"as the sign is related to the object\", hence the interpretant, fulfilling its function as sign of the object, determines a further interpretant sign. The process is logically structured to perpetuate itself, and is definitive of sign, object, and interpretant in general.\n\nPeirce held there are exactly three basic elements in semiosis (sign action):\nSome of the understanding needed by the mind depends on familiarity with the object. To know what a given sign denotes, the mind needs some experience of that sign's object, experience outside of, and collateral to, that sign or sign system. In that context Peirce speaks of collateral experience, collateral observation, collateral acquaintance, all in much the same terms.\n\nAmong Peirce's many sign typologies, three stand out, interlocked. The first typology depends on the sign itself, the second on how the sign stands for its denoted object, and the third on how the sign stands for its object to its interpretant. Also, each of the three typologies is a three-way division, a trichotomy, via Peirce's three phenomenological categories: (1) quality of feeling, (2) reaction, resistance, and (3) representation, mediation.\n\nI. \"Qualisign, sinsign, legisign\" (also called\" tone, token, type,\" and also called \"potisign, actisign, famisign\"): This typology classifies every sign according to the sign's own phenomenological category—the qualisign is a quality, a possibility, a \"First\"; the sinsign is a reaction or resistance, a singular object, an actual event or fact, a \"Second\"; and the legisign is a habit, a rule, a representational relation, a \"Third\".\n\nII. \"Icon, index, symbol\": This typology, the best known one, classifies every sign according to the category of the sign's way of denoting its object—the icon (also called semblance or likeness) by a quality of its own, the index by factual connection to its object, and the symbol by a habit or rule for its interpretant.\n\nIII. \"Rheme, dicisign, argument\" (also called \"sumisign, dicisign, suadisign,\" also \"seme, pheme, delome,\" and regarded as very broadened versions of the traditional \"term, proposition, argument\"): This typology classifies every sign according to the category which the interpretant attributes to the sign's way of denoting its object—the rheme, for example a term, is a sign interpreted to represent its object in respect of quality; the dicisign, for example a proposition, is a sign interpreted to represent its object in respect of fact; and the argument is a sign interpreted to represent its object in respect of habit or law. This is the culminating typology of the three, where the sign is understood as a structural element of inference.\n\nEvery sign belongs to one class or another within (I) \"and\" within (II) \"and\" within (III). Thus each of the three typologies is a three-valued parameter for every sign. The three parameters are not independent of each other; many co-classifications are absent, for reasons pertaining to the lack of either habit-taking or singular reaction in a quality, and the lack of habit-taking in a singular reaction. The result is not 27 but instead ten classes of signs fully specified at this level of analysis.\n\nBorrowing a brace of concepts from Aristotle, Peirce examined three basic modes of inference—\"abduction\", \"deduction\", and \"induction\"—in his \"critique of arguments\" or \"logic proper\". Peirce also called abduction \"retroduction\", \"presumption\", and, earliest of all, \"hypothesis\". He characterized it as guessing and as inference to an explanatory hypothesis. He sometimes expounded the modes of inference by transformations of the categorical syllogism Barbara (AAA), for example in \"Deduction, Induction, and Hypothesis\" (1878). He does this by rearranging the \"rule\" (Barbara's major premise), the \"case\" (Barbara's minor premise), and the \"result\" (Barbara's conclusion):\n\nDeduction.\n\n\"Rule:\" All the beans from this bag are white. <br>\n\"Case:\" These beans are beans from this bag. <br>\nformula_1 \"Result:\" These beans are white.\n\nInduction.\n\n\"Case:\" These beans are [randomly selected] from this bag. <br>\n\"Result:\" These beans are white. <br>\nformula_1 \"Rule:\" All the beans from this bag are white.\n\nHypothesis (Abduction).\n\n\"Rule:\" All the beans from this bag are white. <br>\n\"Result:\" These beans [oddly] are white. <br>\nformula_1 \"Case:\" These beans are from this bag.\nPeirce 1883 in \"A Theory of Probable Inference\" (\"Studies in Logic\") equated hypothetical inference with the induction of characters of objects (as he had done in effect before). Eventually dissatisfied, by 1900 he distinguished them once and for all and also wrote that he now took the syllogistic forms and the doctrine of logical extension and comprehension as being less basic than he had thought. In 1903 he presented the following logical form for abductive inference:\n\nThe logical form does not also cover induction, since induction neither depends on surprise nor proposes a new idea for its conclusion. Induction seeks facts to test a hypothesis; abduction seeks a hypothesis to account for facts. \"Deduction proves that something \"must\" be; Induction shows that something \"actually is\" operative; Abduction merely suggests that something \"may be\".\" Peirce did not remain quite convinced that one logical form covers all abduction. In his methodeutic or theory of inquiry (see below), he portrayed abduction as an economic initiative to further inference and study, and portrayed all three modes as clarified by their coordination in essential roles in inquiry: hypothetical explanation, deductive prediction, inductive testing.\n\n Peirce's recipe for pragmatic thinking, which he called \"pragmatism\" and, later, \"pragmaticism\", is recapitulated in several versions of the so-called \"pragmatic maxim\". Here is one of his more emphatic reiterations of it:\n\nAs a movement, pragmatism began in the early 1870s in discussions among Peirce, William James, and others in the Metaphysical Club. James among others regarded some articles by Peirce such as \"\" (1877) and especially \"\" (1878) as foundational to pragmatism. Peirce (CP 5.11–12), like James (\"\", 1907), saw pragmatism as embodying familiar attitudes, in philosophy and elsewhere, elaborated into a new deliberate method for fruitful thinking about problems. Peirce differed from James and the early John Dewey, in some of their tangential enthusiasms, in being decidedly more rationalistic and realistic, in several senses of those terms, throughout the preponderance of his own philosophical moods.\n\nIn 1905 Peirce coined the new name pragmaticism \"for the precise purpose of expressing the original definition\", saying that \"all went happily\" with James's and F.C.S. Schiller's variant uses of the old name \"pragmatism\" and that he coined the new name because of the old name's growing use in \"literary journals, where it gets abused\". Yet he cited as causes, in a 1906 manuscript, his differences with James and Schiller and, in a 1908 publication, his differences with James as well as literary author Giovanni Papini's declaration of pragmatism's indefinability. Peirce in any case regarded his views that truth is immutable and infinity is real, as being opposed by the other pragmatists, but he remained allied with them on other issues.\n\nPragmatism begins with the idea that belief is that on which one is prepared to act. Peirce's pragmatism is a method of clarification of conceptions of objects. It equates any conception of an object to a conception of that object's effects to a general extent of the effects' conceivable implications for informed practice. It is a method of sorting out conceptual confusions occasioned, for example, by distinctions that make (sometimes needed) formal yet not practical differences. He formulated both pragmatism and statistical principles as aspects of scientific logic, in his \"Illustrations of the Logic of Science\" series of articles. In the second one, \"\", Peirce discussed three grades of clearness of conception:\n\nBy way of example of how to clarify conceptions, he addressed conceptions about truth and the real as questions of the presuppositions of reasoning in general. In clearness's second grade (the \"nominal\" grade), he defined truth as a sign's correspondence to its object, and the real as the object of such correspondence, such that truth and the real are independent of that which you or I or any actual, definite community of inquirers think. After that needful but confined step, next in clearness's third grade (the pragmatic, practice-oriented grade) he defined truth as that opinion which \"would\" be reached, sooner or later but still inevitably, by research taken far enough, such that the real does depend on that ideal final opinion—a dependence to which he appeals in theoretical arguments elsewhere, for instance for the long-run validity of the rule of induction. Peirce argued that even to argue against the independence and discoverability of truth and the real is to presuppose that there is, about that very question under argument, a truth with just such independence and discoverability.\n\nPeirce said that a conception's meaning consists in \"all general modes of rational conduct\" implied by \"acceptance\" of the conception—that is, if one were to accept, first of all, the conception as true, then what could one conceive to be consequent general modes of rational conduct by all who accept the conception as true?—the whole of such consequent general modes is the whole meaning. His pragmatism does not equate a conception's meaning, its intellectual purport, with the conceived benefit or cost of the conception itself, like a meme (or, say, propaganda), outside the perspective of its being true, nor, since a conception is general, is its meaning equated with any definite set of actual consequences or upshots corroborating or undermining the conception or its worth. His pragmatism also bears no resemblance to \"vulgar\" pragmatism, which misleadingly connotes a ruthless and Machiavellian search for mercenary or political advantage. Instead the pragmatic maxim is the heart of his pragmatism as a method of experimentational mental reflection arriving at conceptions in terms of conceivable confirmatory and disconfirmatory circumstances—a method hospitable to the formation of explanatory hypotheses, and conducive to the use and improvement of verification.\n\nPeirce's pragmatism, as method and theory of definitions and conceptual clearness, is part of his theory of inquiry, which he variously called speculative, general, formal or universal rhetoric or simply methodeutic. He applied his pragmatism as a method throughout his work.\n\nCritical common-sensism, treated by Peirce as a consequence of his pragmatism, is his combination of Thomas Reid's common-sense philosophy with a fallibilism that recognizes that propositions of our more or less vague common sense now indubitable may later come into question, for example because of transformations of our world through science. It includes efforts to work up in tests genuine doubts for a core group of common indubitables that vary slowly if at all.\n\nIn \"\" (1877), Peirce described inquiry in general not as the pursuit of truth \"per se\" but as the struggle to move from irritating, inhibitory doubt born of surprise, disagreement, and the like, and to reach a secure belief, belief being that on which one is prepared to act. That let Peirce frame scientific inquiry as part of a broader spectrum and as spurred, like inquiry generally, by actual doubt, not mere verbal, quarrelsome, or hyperbolic doubt, which he held to be fruitless. Peirce sketched four methods of settling opinion, ordered from least to most successful:\n\nPeirce held that, in practical affairs, slow and stumbling ratiocination is often dangerously inferior to instinct and traditional sentiment, and that the scientific method is best suited to theoretical research, which in turn should not be trammeled by the other methods and practical ends; reason's \"first rule\" is that, in order to learn, one must desire to learn and, as a corollary, must not block the way of inquiry. Scientific method excels over the others finally by being deliberately designed to arrive—eventually—at the most secure beliefs, upon which the most successful practices can be based. Starting from the idea that people seek not truth \"per se\" but instead to subdue irritating, inhibitory doubt, Peirce showed how, through the struggle, some can come to submit to truth for the sake of belief's integrity, seek as truth the guidance of potential conduct correctly to its given goal, and wed themselves to the scientific method.\n\nInsofar as clarification by pragmatic reflection suits explanatory hypotheses and fosters predictions and testing, pragmatism points beyond the usual duo of foundational alternatives: deduction from self-evident truths, or \"rationalism\"; and induction from experiential phenomena, or \"empiricism\".\n\nBased on his critique of three modes of argument and different from either foundationalism or coherentism, Peirce's approach seeks to justify claims by a three-phase dynamic of inquiry:\n\n\nThereby, Peirce devised an approach to inquiry far more solid than the flatter image of inductive generalization \"simpliciter\", which is a mere re-labeling of phenomenological patterns. Peirce's pragmatism was the first time the scientific method was proposed as an epistemology for philosophical questions.\n\nA theory that succeeds better than its rivals in predicting and controlling our world is said to be nearer the truth. This is an operational notion of truth used by scientists.\n\nPeirce extracted the pragmatic model or theory of inquiry from its raw materials in classical logic and refined it in parallel with the early development of symbolic logic to address problems about the nature of scientific reasoning.\n\nAbduction, deduction, and induction make incomplete sense in isolation from one another but comprise a cycle understandable as a whole insofar as they collaborate toward the common end of inquiry. In the pragmatic way of thinking about conceivable practical implications, every thing has a purpose, and, as possible, its purpose should first be denoted. Abduction hypothesizes an explanation for deduction to clarify into implications to be tested so that induction can evaluate the hypothesis, in the struggle to move from troublesome uncertainty to more secure belief. No matter how traditional and needful it is to study the modes of inference in abstraction from one another, the integrity of inquiry strongly limits the effective modularity of its principal components.\n\nPeirce's outline of the scientific method in §III–IV of \"A Neglected Argument\" is summarized below (except as otherwise noted). There he also reviewed plausibility and inductive precision (issues of critique of arguments).\n\n1. Abductive (or retroductive) phase. Guessing, inference to explanatory hypotheses for selection of those best worth trying. From abduction, Peirce distinguishes induction as inferring, on the basis of tests, the proportion of truth in the hypothesis. Every inquiry, whether into ideas, brute facts, or norms and laws, arises from surprising observations in one or more of those realms (and for example at any stage of an inquiry already underway). All explanatory content of theories comes from abduction, which guesses a new or outside idea so as to account in a simple, economical way for a surprising or complicated phenomenon. The modicum of success in our guesses far exceeds that of random luck, and seems born of attunement to nature by developed or inherent instincts, especially insofar as best guesses are optimally plausible and simple in the sense of the \"facile and natural\", as by Galileo's natural light of reason and as distinct from \"logical simplicity\". Abduction is the most fertile but least secure mode of inference. Its general rationale is inductive: it succeeds often enough and it has no substitute in expediting us toward new truths. In 1903, Peirce called pragmatism \"the logic of abduction\". Coordinative method leads from abducting a plausible hypothesis to judging it for its testability and for how its trial would economize inquiry itself. The hypothesis, being insecure, needs to have practical implications leading at least to mental tests and, in science, lending themselves to scientific tests. A simple but unlikely guess, if not costly to test for falsity, may belong first in line for testing. A guess is intrinsically worth testing if it has plausibility or reasoned objective probability, while subjective likelihood, though reasoned, can be misleadingly seductive. Guesses can be selected for trial strategically, for their caution (for which Peirce gave as example the game of Twenty Questions), breadth, or incomplexity. One can discover only that which would be revealed through their sufficient experience anyway, and so the point is to expedite it; economy of research demands the leap, so to speak, of abduction and governs its art.\n\n2. Deductive phase. Two stages:\n\n3. Inductive phase. Evaluation of the hypothesis, inferring from observational or experimental tests of its deduced consequences. The long-run validity of the rule of induction is deducible from the principle (presuppositional to reasoning in general) that the real \"is only the object of the final opinion to which sufficient investigation would lead\"; in other words, anything excluding such a process would never be real. Induction involving the ongoing accumulation of evidence follows \"a method which, sufficiently persisted in,\" will \"diminish the error below any predesignate degree.\" Three stages:\n\nPeirce drew on the methodological implications of the four incapacities—no genuine introspection, no intuition in the sense of non-inferential cognition, no thought but in signs, and no conception of the absolutely incognizable—to attack philosophical Cartesianism, of which he said that:\n\n1. \"It teaches that philosophy must begin in universal doubt\" – when, instead, we start with preconceptions, \"prejudices [...] which it does not occur to us \"can\" be questioned\", though we may find reason to question them later. \"Let us not pretend to doubt in philosophy what we do not doubt in our hearts.\"\n\n2. \"It teaches that the ultimate test of certainty is...in the individual consciousness\" – when, instead, in science a theory stays on probation till agreement is reached, then it has no actual doubters left. No lone individual can reasonably hope to fulfill philosophy's multi-generational dream. When \"candid and disciplined minds\" continue to disagree on a theoretical issue, even the theory's author should feel doubts about it.\n\n3. It trusts to \"a single thread of inference depending often upon inconspicuous premisses\" – when, instead, philosophy should, \"like the successful sciences\", proceed only from tangible, scrutinizable premisses and trust not to any one argument but instead to \"the multitude and variety of its arguments\" as forming, not a chain at least as weak as its weakest link, but \"a cable whose fibers\", soever \"slender, are sufficiently numerous and intimately connected\".\n\n4. It renders many facts \"absolutely inexplicable, unless to say that 'God makes them so' is to be regarded as an explanation\" – when, instead, philosophy should avoid being \"unidealistic\", misbelieving that something real can defy or evade all possible ideas, and supposing, inevitably, \"some absolutely inexplicable, unanalyzable ultimate\", which explanatory surmise explains nothing and so is inadmissible.\n\nPeirce divided metaphysics into (1) ontology or general metaphysics, (2) psychical or religious metaphysics, and (3) physical metaphysics.\n\nOntology. Peirce was a Scholastic Realist, declaring for the reality of generals as early as 1868. Regarding modalities (possibility, necessity, etc.), he came in later years to regard himself as having wavered earlier as to just how positively real the modalities are. In his 1897 \"The Logic of Relatives\" he wrote: Peirce retained, as useful for some purposes, the definitions in terms of information states, but insisted that the pragmaticist is committed to a strong modal realism by conceiving of objects in terms of predictive general conditional propositions about how they \"would\" behave under certain circumstances.\n\nPsychical or religious metaphysics. Peirce believed in God, and characterized such belief as founded in an instinct explorable in musing over the worlds of ideas, brute facts, and evolving habits—and it is a belief in God not as an \"actual\" or \"existent\" being (in Peirce's sense of those words), but all the same as a \"real\" being. In \"\" (1908), Peirce sketches, for God's reality, an argument to a hypothesis of God as the Necessary Being, a hypothesis which he describes in terms of how it would tend to develop and become compelling in musement and inquiry by a normal person who is led, by the hypothesis, to consider as being purposed the features of the worlds of ideas, brute facts, and evolving habits (for example scientific progress), such that the thought of such purposefulness will \"stand or fall with the hypothesis\"; meanwhile, according to Peirce, the hypothesis, in supposing an \"infinitely incomprehensible\" being, starts off at odds with its own nature as a purportively true conception, and so, no matter how much the hypothesis grows, it both (A) inevitably regards itself as partly true, partly vague, and as continuing to define itself without limit, and (B) inevitably has God appearing likewise vague but growing, though God as the Necessary Being is not vague or growing; but the hypothesis will hold it to be \"more\" false to say the opposite, that God is purposeless. Peirce also argued that the will is free and (see Synechism) that there is at least an attenuated kind of immortality.\n\nPhysical metaphysics. Peirce held the view, which he called objective idealism, that \"matter is effete mind, inveterate habits becoming physical laws\". Peirce asserted the reality of (1) absolute chance (his tychist view), (2) mechanical necessity (anancist view), and (3) that which he called the law of love (agapist view), echoing his categories Firstness, Secondness, and Thirdness, respectively. He held that fortuitous variation (which he also called \"sporting\"), mechanical necessity, and creative love are the three modes of evolution (modes called \"tychasm\", \"anancasm\", and \"agapasm\") of the cosmos and its parts. He found his conception of agapasm embodied in Lamarckian evolution; the overall idea in any case is that of evolution tending toward an end or goal, and it could also be the evolution of a mind or a society; it is the kind of evolution which manifests workings of mind in some general sense. He said that overall he was a synechist, holding with reality of continuity, especially of space, time, and law.\n\nPeirce outlined two fields, \"Cenoscopy\" and \"Science of Review\", both of which he called philosophy. Both included philosophy about science. In 1903 he arranged them, from more to less theoretically basic, thus:\n\n\nPeirce placed, within Science of Review, the work and theory of classifying the sciences (including mathematics and philosophy). His classifications, on which he worked for many years, draw on argument and wide knowledge, and are of interest both as a map for navigating his philosophy and as an accomplished polymath's survey of research in his time.\n\nContemporaries associated with Peirce\n\n"}
{"id": "255782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255782", "title": "College of Creative Studies", "text": "College of Creative Studies\n\nThe College of Creative Studies is the smallest of the three undergraduate colleges at the University of California, Santa Barbara, unique within the University of California system in terms of structure and philosophy. Its small size, student privileges, and grading system are designed to encourage self-motivated students with strong interests in a field to accomplish original work as undergraduates. A former student has called it a “graduate school for undergraduates”. The college has roughly 350 students in eight majors and approximately 60 professors and lecturers. There is an additional application process to the standard UCSB admission for prospective CCS students, and CCS accepts applications for admissions throughout the year.\n\nIn the late 1960s, the Chancellor of UCSB, Vernon I. Cheadle, was looking for an alternative education program for undergraduate students which could embody the new thinking of the 60s and also attract attention to his growing university. He contacted a professor in the English department, Marvin Mudrick, to come up with ideas for this new program. In 1967 the University of California allowed funding for Mudrick to start up the most promising of those ideas, the College of Creative Studies.\n\nThe program started with approximately 50 students in 7 majors: Art, Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, Music Composition, Literature and Physics. The experimental program struck a chord with its students and faculty, and along with the powerful pushing of Mudrick as its provost, it secured its place at UCSB. The program grew over the years in student and faculty size and in 1975 found its home in a building at UCSB that dates from when the campus was a World War II marine base. In 1995 the college added the major of Computer Science. In 2005, with the retirement of Provost William Ashby, the title of the Provost was changed to Dean and the College was placed under the leadership of Dr. Bruce Tiffney.\n\nThe Art department includes the only undergraduate book arts program in the University of California system. Recently, the Physics program has become regarded as one of the best undergraduate Physics programs in the nation; its students attend graduate schools with percentages resembling those of Ivy Leagues. CCS students have won the UCSB Chancellor's Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Research several times in recent years. Literature students run \"Spectrum\", a literary magazine, and \"Into the Teeth of the Wind\", a poetry review.\n\nThe philosophy of the College of Creative Studies is that certain undergraduate students are capable of rigorously exploring and adding to their chosen field of knowledge. Students skip introductory courses as appropriate and are encouraged to accomplish original work throughout their time at the College: Literature students compile a portfolio of writing, art students put on a minimum of two shows displaying their work, music students perform their own compositions, and science students enter labs by their sophomore years to conduct research and write scholarly papers for publication.\n\nThe College considers students to be the most important people involved, not the faculty or administration. It has a low student-teacher ratio, and each student is paired with a faculty adviser with whom they meet at least once a quarter.\n\nCCS students have few general education requirements and may take almost any course in the entire university, including graduate classes, without being required to complete the prerequisites. They can drop classes up to the last day of instruction in the quarter, a privilege intended to encourage students to attempt taking many units and advanced classes without being penalized in the case that they bit off more than they could chew.\n\nIn CCS classes, students do not receive letter grades. Instead, the College uses a sliding unit scale where if a student completes all the work for a class at a satisfactory level, the student receives a full 4 units for most classes. If the student completes less work, he/she would receive fewer units, and if the student goes beyond expectations, a professor may give student more units. This system aims to promote a non-competitive atmosphere that focuses more on the student learning the material rather than learning how to take a test.\n\nCCS students are afforded many privileges to help in the pursuit of their education. \n\n\nThe College of Creative Studies is housed in its own single story building, number 494, located between campus dorms, a dining commons, and the University Center. The building was built during World War II and shares the title as the oldest building at UCSB with the other buildings left from when the campus was a marine base.\n\nThe building contains classrooms, art studios, faculty and administrative offices, an art gallery, computer labs, print and wood shops and a small 100 person theater. For most of its life it was painted brown, but in early 2005 the administrative offices were painted yellow, the college proper was painted green and the Old Little Theatre was painted red.\n\nThe building acts as a \"home base\" for its students, who spend time in the building studying and socializing. Students are allowed to personalize the building, so the walls have stickers and art, classrooms contain couches and modified desks and there are a few roaming stuffed animals.\n\nAlthough many students and staff members are fond of the building, the college has outgrown it and is looking for funds to renovate it and/or build new facilities.\n\nCCS alumni include:\n\n\nCCS faculty have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24437051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24437051", "title": "Dimitri Petrides", "text": "Dimitri Petrides\n\nDimitri Petrides (August 1912 in Cyprus – 1985 in Blackpool) was a ballroom dancer who was instrumental in pioneering and developing Latin American dancing in England. He left Cyprus when he was eighteen with his mother after the death of his father, eventually settling in England. He was one of the founding members of the Latin-American Faculty of the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing, and wrote the first English textbook on the subject. He was a Fellow and Examiner of the ISTD.\n\nDimitri was also an adept linguist speaking Greek, English, French and Italian, so much so that, during World War II he worked as a translator on a prisoner of war camp for Italian prisoners of war. Later, after the war, Dimitri was in a jewellery shop buying awards for a competition, when he met Nina Hunt. She asked him to teach her to dance. They were later married, and had a son, Ian.\n\nThe rhythms that make Latin American dance popular today were first brought to this country in the early 1930s. It was a Frenchman who introduced this style to the English dance scene. He had come to Britain as a young man, and was known professionally as \"Monsieur Pierre\", (Pierre Jean Phillipe Zurcher-Margolle, Toulon, France, circa 1890 – London, 1963). Pierre was already an accomplished dancer and teacher in the English ballroom style when the Peanut Vendor started the rumba craze in Europe and America in 1931. The rumba and the beguine were demonstrated in London in 1932 by the French champion couple M. & Mme Chapoul at an event organised by \"The Dancing Times\". Pierre was present and went to the \"Cabine Cubaine\" club in Paris to take a look at the dancers.\n\nIn 1947 Pierre, his partner Nina Hunt and colleague Doris Nicols founded the Latin American section of the Ballroom Branch of the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing (ISTD). Meanwhile, Dimitri had met Josephine Bradley, one of the greats of Ballroom dancing. Miss Bradley suggested to Gwenethe Walshe that she might partner up with Dimitri. Dimitri and Gwenthe were Britain's first Latin American champions winning many of the earliest competitions before going on to build on their success and become popular as demonstrators, lecturers, coaches and judges. It is hard to imagine today that there was no Latin at the Blackpool Tower, the International had not started, and the Star featured a competition in rumba only. Dimitri and Gwenethe joined the new faculty very early on.\n\nThe Latin American section of the ISTD now included Gwenethe Walshe and Dimitri Petrides. This small band of dedicated specialists worked hard to establish an examination system and syllabus for both amateur and professional dancers. Sidney Francis and Walter Laird also joined somewhat later. The syllabus they worked on was eventually agreed upon by 1955 and ever since been the basis of Latin American dancing. The group improved technique and the framework for teaching and assessment dramatically in these years.\n\nDimitri was important in pioneering and developing Latin American dancing. He worked on the figures, gave demonstrations, and taught students. He wrote one of the first technique books in English for Latin American dancing in 1949 entitled \"The Latin-American dances\" (later edition, 1960, \"The Latin American technique\"). Of this book the General Secretary of the ISTD, H. Vivian Davies said:\n\nHe was also part of a later committee of examiners, which included Sidney Francis, Peggy Spencer, Doris Lavelle, Elizabeth Romain, and Doris Nichols. They prepared the \"Revised Latin American Technique\". This states in its foreword \"this is the official Latin-American technique upon which all future Imperial examinations are to be conducted\" and is still used by the ISTD in five parts (one for each Latin dance).\n\nDimitri next turned his attentions to establishing competitive dancing and set up several competitions in England including the prestigious All England Championship with Nina and Sidney Francis. He became a leading examiner and adjudicator, as well as a Fellow of the ISTD. Dimitri continued to work until his death whilst judging at the famous Blackpool Dance Festival.\n\nhttp://www.istd.org/latin/about/about.html\n"}
{"id": "32980085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32980085", "title": "Ecuador National Museum of Medicine", "text": "Ecuador National Museum of Medicine\n\nThe Ecuador National Museum of Medicine is located in Quito, Ecuador.\nDr. Eduardo Estrella founded Ecuador's National Museum of Medicine on 5 March 1982. Estrella's mission was to paint a full picture of the native, natural medicine of South America and to preserve Ecuadoran heritage. The main elements of the museum include Aboriginal Medical Food, nutrition and health, medical archeology, and medicinal plants. There is a full museum with Dential equipment from the late 17th, 18th through the very start 19th century such as Antique Microscopes, Antique Medicine Bottles, medical instrument literature and a complete library of knowledge and language of Andian Medicine Plants.\n\nThere are also sections dedicated to Colonial medicine in South America, as well as institutionalization of academic medicine, hospitals, and medical education.\n\nDr. Eduardo Estrella studied medicine at the Central University of Ecuador. After graduation, Dr Estrella did his Postgraduate education on Radiotherapy at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States from 1968 to 1970. He did his specialized studies in psychiatry at the University of Navarra, Pamplona from 1970 to 1973, Spain. Aguirre later chaired the medical faculty at the Central University of Ecuador. Dr Estrella got his doctoral degree from the Catholic University of Quito in the 1980s. This was after he had published extensively on Andian medicine and on the history of medicine.\n\nThe Dr. Eduardo Estrella National Museum of Medicine library has been established to collect, protect, classify and catalog the medical, administrative and economic documentation of health institutions for Ecuador. The library is composed of more than 15 documentaries funds, corresponding to approximately 10,000 boxes and hardcover volumes. The Museum and Library are located in Hall No. 5 Eugenio Espejo Convention Center (lanes Sodiro and Valparaiso). Open Monday to Saturday from 8:30 to 3:00 pm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16912714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16912714", "title": "Edmund Brice", "text": "Edmund Brice\n\nEdmund Brice (fl. 1648–1696) was an English translator and schoolmaster.\n\nBrice, whose dates of birth and death are unknown, became a member of Jesus College, Oxford on or before 27 October 1648, matriculating on 12 March 1649 and obtaining his B.A. degree on 12 July 1650. He was then appointed a Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford, retaining his fellowship until about December 1660. It was reported that, during the time when he was a fellow of All Souls, he heard a sermon \"preached in great Power\" by John Pordage, rector of Bradfield, Berkshire. Brice and his companion went to discuss matters with Pordage, and joined his Behmenist group, although it is unclear how long he spent with the group.\n\nHe was licensed to instruct boys in the diocese of London in Latin grammar on 24 April 1669, having subscribed to the Thirty-Nine Articles. He also translated from the Latin Theodore Mundanus's response to Edmund Dickinson \"concerning the Quintessence of the Philosophers\" (1686). In 1696, another translation of his, \"Centrum Naturae Concentratum, or, The Salt of Nature Regenerated\", was published. This was based on \"The center of nature concentrated, or, Ali Puli his tractate of the regenerated salt of nature\", ascribed to an \"Asian moor\" who had converted to Christianity called Ali Puli. A book by Jakob Böhme (\"Aurora, that is, the Day Spring\" (1656)), inscribed by Brice on the flyleaf, came to be owned by Caleb Gilman, a founder of the Philadelphian Society.\n"}
{"id": "16567946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16567946", "title": "Education in Libya", "text": "Education in Libya\n\nEducation in Libya begins with primary education, which is both free and compulsory. Children in Libya between the ages of 6 and 15 attend primary school and then attend secondary school for three additional years (15- to 18-year-olds). About 60 percent of students are assigned to a vocational secondary program, while the remaining 40 percent are assigned to a more academic-focused secondary program, based on test scores and interests. Under Gadaffi, primary and secondary education focused on his treatise on political philosophy, the Green Book, with older students studying \"Jamahiriya studies\".\n\nAbout 766,807 students in 2000 attended primary school and had 97,334 teachers; approximately 717,000 students were enrolled in secondary, technical, and vocational schools; and about 287,172 students were enrolled in Libya's universities.\n\nIn 2001 public expenditures on education amounted to about 2.7 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP). Although no figures were found for government expenditures on education, Libyan television announced on September 1, 2004, that a new ministry for education had been formed, the General People’s Committee for Higher Education.\n\nIn the early 1980s, estimates of total literacy were between 50 and 60 percent, or about 70 percent for men and 35 percent for women, but the gender gap has since narrowed, especially because of increased female school attendance. For 2001 the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Report estimates that the adult literacy rate climbed to about 80.8 percent, or 91.3 percent for males and 69.3 percent for females. According to 2004 U.S. government estimates, 82 percent of the total adult population (age 15 and older) is literate, or 92 percent of males and 72 percent of females. The United Nations Development Programme recorded about an 89.9 percent adult literacy rate in 2014, while UNICEF estimated that as high 99.9 percent literacy rates among youths ages 15 to 24 for both sexes in 2012.\n\nDespite the poor economic situation in the 1950s, the Kingdom of Libya decreed the creation of its first modern university, the University of Libya in Benghazi, on December 15, 1955. The \"Al-Manar\" palace was assigned to be the first campus of the University. The university originally hired faculty from outside of Libya, and relied on the Egyptian government to pay the many staff members' salaries for the first four years.\n\nThe Kingdom of Libya founded many new institutions and revived many old ones. These institutions included koranic schools and were largely religious in nature.\n\nEducation during Muammar Gadaffi's rule in Libya was defined by his treatise on political philosophy, known as the Green Book and belief in an eventual decentralization of various government institutions. The book was a central part of the Libyan curriculum for primary and secondary education under his regime. Students from ages 9 to 18 were required to study Gadaffi's government in classes referred to as \"Jamahiriya studies\". Jamahiriya covered various aspects of Libya's government, either taken directly from the Green Book or compiled from the Green Book into various companion texts. British author George Tremlett reported that students would study the Green Book for two hours each week in 1993. Other subjects also integrated these political philosophies, such as Geography texts denying current national borders to promote pan-arabist beliefs. In order to enforce these views, all curriculum designers were required to be part of the lijan thawriya, local committees dedicated to the interpretation of the Green Book.\n\nThe Gadaffi regime had seen a large increase in students pursuing post-secondary education, in both universities and in the technical and vocational sector. In 1975 there were only two universities and around 13,418 students enrolled in post-secondary education. By 2004, there were nine universities and 84 technical and vocational schools with over 270,000 post-secondary students.\n\nBy the 1980s, Libya's government realized it could not meet the demands for skilled workers and post-secondary educators, and began reforms to help meet these demands. In 1988, then secretary of education Maatouq M. Maatouq helped establish the Ministry of Technical and Vocational training, which oversaw trade schools and secondary-level vocational programs. That year, Gadaffi also asked Dr. Saleh Ibrahim to create Libya's first postgraduate school, which by 2004 had trained 80 percent of Libya's post-secondary teaching staff.\n\nThe Libyan Civil War in 2011 resulted in a delay to the start of the next year's classes on all levels which drew criticism for the National Transitional Council. It also drew attention several faults in the education system under Gadaffi. According to the Tripoli Post, students at the University of Tripoli felt that the Gadaffi regime had provided them with low quality education. \n\nFollowing the 2011 civil war, the new education ministry began efforts to rewrite curricula. New curricula and texts began implementation in January 2012. Under the interim regime, efforts have been made to remove Gadiffi's influence from all levels education until it can be addressed appropriately. Acting education minister Suliman El-Sahli stated the ministry hopes \"All historical eras will be presented objectively, without propaganda\".\n\nUnder the Gadaffi regime, vocational education was tailored largely for domestic, public sector jobs. Efforts to shift focus in vocational towards private sector jobs and improved international relations became an important issue for the new government in Libya. In 2013, the Libyan Board for Technical and Vocational Education signed an memorandum of understanding with UK based TVET UK in order to facilitate efforts to modernize the institutions established in the 1970s and 1980s and overhaul vocational education in Libya. TVET UK agreed to work with UK based suppliers to set up workshops in Libya to prepare the transition of skilled works into new private sector industries. In May 2013, the General National Congress began a funding initiative to send students to study overseas. The program had chosen 2,004 educators with masters degrees and 5,692 students to complete their education abroad at its inception, with plans to send another 3,616 top students over the coming years and to provide another 31,000 students with english language training. Initially, the fund gave scholarships to students who fought in militias during the civil war, but was later expanded to allow women and handicapped students to receive scholarships as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "5533699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5533699", "title": "Education in Nigeria", "text": "Education in Nigeria\n\nEducation in Nigeria is overseen by the Ministry of Education. Local authorities take responsibility for implementing state-controlled policy regarding public education and state schools. The education system is divided into Kindergarten, Primary education, Secondary education and Tertiary education. Nigeria's central government has been dominated by instability since declaring independence from Britain, and, as a result, a unified set of education policies has not yet been successfully implemented. Regional differences in quality, curriculum, and funding characterize the education system in Nigeria. Currently, Nigeria possesses the largest population of out-of-school learning youth in the world.\n\nPrimary education begins at around age 3 for the majority of Nigerians. Students spend six years in primary school and graduate with a school-leaving certificate. Subjects taught at the primary level include mathematics, English language, Christian Religious Knowledge, Islamic knowledge studies, agricultural science,home economics and one of the three main indigenous languages and cultures: Hausa-Fulani, Yoruba, and Igbo. Private schools also offer computer science, French, and Fine Arts. Primary school students are required to take a Common Entrance Examination to qualify for admission into the Federal and State Government Secondary schools, as well as private ones.\n\nBefore 1976, education policy was still largely shaped by the colonial policy of the British Colonial Period. In 1976, the Universal Primary Education program was established. This program faced many difficulties and was subsequently revised in 1981 and 1990. The Universal Basic Education, \"UBE\", came as a replacement of the Universal Primary Education and intended to enhance the success of the first nine years of schooling The \"UBE\" involves 6 years of Primary School education and 3 years of Junior Secondary School education, culminating in 9 years of uninterrupted schooling, and transition from one class to another is automatic but determined through continuous assessment. This scheme is monitored by the Universal Basic Education Commission, UBEC, and has made it \"free\", \"compulsory\" and a right of every child.\nTherefore, the \"UBEC\" law section 15 defines UBE as early childhood care and education. The law stipulates a 9-year formal schooling, adult literacy and non-formal education, skill acquisition programs, and the education of special groups such as nomads and migrants, girl child and women, Al-majiri, street children and disabled people (Aderinoye, 2007).\nStudents spend six years in Secondary School, that is 3 years of JSS (Junior Secondary School), and 3 years of SSS (Senior Secondary School). By Senior Secondary School Class 2 (SS2), students are taking the GCE O’Levels exam, which is not mandatory, but some students take it to prepare for the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination. The Senior Secondary School ends on the WASSCE.\nJunior Secondary School is free and compulsory. It leads to the BECE, which opens the gate to Senior Secondary School. SSS curriculum is based on 4 core subjects completed by 4 or 5 elective subjects. Core subjects are: English; mathematics; Economics; Civic Education; one or more electives out of biology, chemistry, physics or integrated science; one or more electives out of English literature, history, geography or social studies; agricultural science or a vocational subject which includes: Commerce, food and nutrition, technical drawing or fine arts.\n\nAfter the BECE, students can also join a technical college. The curriculum for these also lasts 3 years and leads to a trade/craftsmanship certificate.\n\nThe Federal Republic of Nigeria is made up of thirty-six States and the Federal Capital Territory. There are about two Federal Government Colleges in each state. These schools are funded and managed directly by the Federal Government through the Ministry of Education. Teachers and staff are Federal Government employees. Teachers at the Federal Government schools are required to possess a bachelor's degree in Education or in a particular subject area, such as, Mathematics, Physics etc. These schools are supposed to be model schools carrying and maintaining the ideals of secondary education for Nigerian students. Admission is based on merit, determined by the National Common Entrance Examination taken by all final year elementary school pupils. Tuition and fees are very low, approximately twenty five thousand naira ($69.08), because funding comes from the Federal Government.\n\nState-owned secondary schools are funded by each state government and are not comparable to the Federal government colleges. Although education is supposed to be free in the majority of the state-owned institutions, students are required to purchase books, uniforms and pay for miscellaneous things costing them an average of fifty thousand naira ($200) in an academic year. Teachers in State-owned institutions usually have a National Certificate of Education or a bachelor's degree, but this is not always the case as many secondary schools in Nigeria are filled with unqualified teachers who end up not being able to motivate their students. Often these schools are understaffed due to low state budgets, lack of incentives and irregularities in payment of staff salaries. Some state-owned secondary schools are regarded as elite colleges because of the historically high educational standard and producing alumni who have prominent citizens in the various careers. These included King's College, Lagos and Queen's College, Lagos. However, the college ranking of these institutions have since dropped because of the arrival of some private institutions.\n\nPrivate secondary schools in Nigeria tend to be quite expensive with average annual fees averaging from two hundred and fifty thousand naira to One million naira($1000.00 – $4000.00). These schools have smaller classes (approximately twenty to thirty students per class), modern equipment and a better learning environment. Most teachers in these institutions possess at least a bachelor's degree in a specific course area and are sent for workshops or short term programs on a regular basis.\n\nWith the introduction of the 6-3-3-4 system of education in Nigeria, the recipient of the education would spend six years in primary school, three years in junior secondary school, three years in senior secondary school, and four years in a tertiary institution. The six years spent in primary school and the three years spent in junior secondary school are merged to form the nine in the 9-3-4 system. Altogether, the students must spend a minimum period of six years in Secondary School. During this period, students are expected to spend three years in Junior Secondary School and three years in Senior Secondary School.\n\nThe General Certificate of Education Examination (GCE) was replaced by the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination (SSCE). The SSCE is conducted at the end of the Secondary School studies in May/June. The GCE is conducted in October/November as a supplement for those students who did not get the required credits from their SSCE results. The standards of the two examinations are basically the same. A body called West African Examination Council (WAEC) conducts both the SSCE and GCE. A maximum of nine and a minimum of seven subjects are registered for the examination by each student with Mathematics and English Language taken as compulsory.\n\nA maximum of nine grades are assigned to each subject from: A1, B2, B3 (Equivalent to Distinctions Grade); C4, C5, C6 (Equivalent to Credit Grade); D7, E8 (Just Pass Grade); F9 (Fail Grade). Credit grades and above is considered academically adequate for entry into any University in Nigeria. In some study programs, many of the universities may require higher grades to get admission.\n\nThe Federal Government policy on education is adhered to by all secondary schools in Nigeria. Six years of elementary school is followed by six years of secondary school. Junior Secondary school consists of JSS1, JSS2 and JSS3 which are equivalent to the 7th, 8th and 9th Grade while the Senior Secondary school consists of SS I, SS 2, and SS 3 which is equivalent to the 10th, 11th and 12th Grade. The Senior Secondary School Examination (SSCE) is taken at the end of the SS 3. The West African Examination Council (WAEC) administers both exams. Three to six months after a student has taken the SSCE examination, they are issued an official transcript from their institution. This transcript is valid for one year, after which an Official transcript from the West African Examination Council is issued.\n\nThe National Examination Council is another examination body in Nigeria; it administers the Senior Secondary School Examination (SSCE) in June/July. The body also administers the General Certificate of Education Examination (GCE) in December/January. Students often take both WAEC and NECO examinations in SSS 3.\n\nAs of January 2015, the International Schools Consultancy (ISC) listed Nigeria as having 129 international schools. ISC defines an 'international school' in the following terms \"ISC includes an international school if the school delivers a curriculum to any combination of pre-school, primary or secondary students, wholly or partly in English outside an English-speaking country, or if a school in a country where English is one of the official languages, offers an English-medium curriculum other than the country’s national curriculum and is international in its orientation.\" This definition is used by publications including The Economist.\n\nThe government has majority control of university education. Tertiary education in Nigeria consists of Universities (Public and Private), Polytechnics, Monotechnics, and Colleges of education. The country has a total number of 129 universities registered by NUC among which federal and state government own 40 and 39 respectively while 50 universities are privately owned. In order to increase the number of universities in Nigeria from 129 to 138 the Federal Government gave 9 new private universities their licences in May 2015. The names of the universities that got licenses in Abuja included, Augustine University, Ilara, Lagos; Chrisland University, Owode, Ogun State; Christopher University, Mowe, Ogun State; Hallmark University, Ijebu-Itele, Ogun State; Kings University, Ode-Omu, Osun State; Micheal and Cecilia Ibru University, Owhrode, Delta State; Mountain Top University, Makogi/Oba Ogun state; Ritman University, Ikot-Epene, Akwa- Ibom State and Summit University, Offa, Kwara State.\n\nFirst year entry requirements into most universities in Nigeria include: Minimum of SSCE/GCE Ordinary Level Credits at maximum of two sittings; Minimum cut-off marks in Joint Admission and Matriculation Board Entrance Examination (JAMB) of 180 and above out of a maximum of 400 marks are required. Candidates with minimum of Merit Pass in National Certificate of Education (NCE), National Diploma (ND) and other Advanced Level Certificates minimum qualifications with minimum of 5 O/L Credits are given direct entry admission into the appropriate undergraduate degree programs.\n\nStudents with required documents typically enter university from age 17-18 onwards and study for an academic degree. Historically, universities are divided into several tiers:\n\nFive of these Universities were established between 1948 and 1965, following the recommendation of the Ashby Commission set up by the British Colonial Government to study the necessity of university education for Nigeria. These universities are fully funded by the federal government. They were established primarily to meet a need for qualified personnel in Nigeria and to set basic standards for university education. These universities have continued to play their roles for the production of qualified personnel and the provision of standards, which have helped to guide the subsequent establishments of other generations of universities in Nigeria. Universities in this tier are\n\nWith the increasing population of qualified students for university education in Nigeria and the growing needs for scientific and technological developments, setting up more universities became imperative. Between 1970 and 1985, 12 additional universities were established in various parts of the country.\n\nThe need to establish Universities to address special areas of Technological and Agricultural demand prompted the establishment of 10 additional Universities between 1985 and 1999.\n\nPressures from qualified students from each state who could not readily get admissions to any of the Federal Universities continued to mount on States Governments. It became imperative and urgent for some State Governments to invest in the establishment of Universities.\n\nThe Federal Government established a law in 1993, allowing private sectors to establish universities following guidelines prescribed by the Government.\n\nThe typical duration of undergraduate programs in Nigerian universities depends largely on the program of study. For example, Social Sciences/Humanity related courses are 4 Years, I.C.T related courses are 4 years, Engineering/Technology related courses are 5 Years, Pharmacy courses are 5 Years, and Law courses are 5 Years, each with two semester sessions per year. Medicine (Vet/Human) degrees take 6 Years and have longer sessions during the year.\n\nWithin education in Nigeria, vocational training and informal education dominate as the central forms of sharing regionally specific knowledge. Administration of vocational education in the country is overseen by the National Board for Technical Education. In the early 1980s, as a result of high unemployment rates for school graduates, the Nigerian government placed a new emphasis on making vocational programs available to students. Vocational education is now available to students in Nigeria beginning at the secondary level, and the Nigerian government has declared its dedication to improving technical and vocational education through a number of commissions and programs. The most significant plan for improvement was the Master Plan for 2001-2010 for the Development of the National Vocational Education system developed by the Federal Ministry of Education in 2000. Current challenges for the enforcement of these systems includes a shortage of teachers, poor statistics on the labour market needs, and outdated curriculum and technology at vocational training centers. As it stands now, students in Nigeria can pursue either a National Technical Certificate or an Advanced National Technical Certificate. Administration of these certificates is overseen by the National Business and Technical Examinations Board (NABTEB). In addition to institutional forms of vocational education, the Nigerian government allows and encourages participation in apprenticeships. These apprenticeships are instrumental in instilling the skills involved with a specific trade, but they also instill a commitment to community values including: patience, determination, and respect. Child Labour laws prevent children younger than 15 from entering the workforce, but children less than 15 years of age may legally procure apprenticeships. While efforts are being made to improve the quality and availability of vocational education, many policy oriented approaches have been blocked by a small number of politicians. The failures to properly implement a national approach to worker's education has roots in the political instability of the country. To this end, many academics have questioned if politicians are attempting to intentionally subjugate the working class through a lack of educational breadth.\n\nInformal modes of education have formed a foundation for tertiary education in Nigeria for many years and are still at play today. These programs and structures are difficult to study and assess unanimously as they are decentralized and unique in their missions and practices. Many academics have concluded that an overall lack of funding and centralization has significantly hindered the quality, funding, and implementation of literacy programs for both school age children and adults. However, many have achieved success at promoting employment and increasing economic mobility for those who have utilized the programs. In addition to vocational apprenticeships, the Nigerian government and various NGOs have introduced communal based strategies for increasing literacy rates among both children and adults. One such example is the Centre of Excellence for Literacy and Literacy Education (CELLE), an NGO committed to accelerating national development through literacy education. In 1992, CELLE launched the Premier Reading Club (PRC), which is a nationally organized club with defined structure and methods for teaching children and adults to read and share their ideas. These programs have achieved varying levels of success with the primary challenge being that funding is difficult to come by. Formal and informal literacy education in Nigeria received a significant boost under the colonial rule of Britain, but since independence in 1960, educational funding across the board has been lacking. Informal education has also aimed at addressed issues other than illiteracy. Calls to incorporate informal HIV/AIDS education into the prison education system have been frequent and met with limited and varied response. This population is in need of this education as inmates are not exposed to the standard methods of TV and print media campaigns addressing the issue. From a psychological perspective, much of the informal education of adults is based on western research regarding psychology and social sciences. However, increasing academic movements are aiming to contextualize and build upon these western based ideals for the sake of social betterment in Nigeria, as well as developing nations around the world. Overall, the informal education system in Nigeria can be described as nuanced and complicated. Despite large support for investment in adult literacy and vocational programs, small groups of politicians and funding challenges have stalled the implementation of many literacy and vocational programs. One study regarding the involvement of the national government in education and literacy programs concluded that the high illiteracy rates in Nigeria were significantly related to the government's lack of commitment towards its standardized education policies.\n\nEducation has been recognized as a basic human right since the 1948 adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. A positive correlation exists between the enrollment of girls in primary school and the gross national product and life expectancy. Because of this correlation, enrollment in schools represents the largest component of societal investment into human capital. Rapid socioeconomic development of a nation has been observed to depend on the calibre of women and their education in that country. Women participation in education has been on increase, several motivations are employed by NGO, local, state, and federal government to encourage more women in education. Women can now been seen in various high-profile careers. That being said, there are still many challenges preventing gender equality in the Nigerian education system. There is a significant bias against female involvement in specific academic disciplines, with studies showing the existence of sex-based stereotyping of students by teachers in secondary schools. The most dominant barriers are currently teen pregnancy, teen marriage, religious beliefs, poverty, and poor school facilities. In recent years, the rise of militancy groups such as the Boko Haram and the Niger Delta militancy have contributed to destabilization of the education system. Both now and historically, girls have disproportionately experienced the impacts of this destabilization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57821202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57821202", "title": "Edwin Clark University", "text": "Edwin Clark University\n\nEdwin Clark University is a privately owned University located in Kaigbodo, Delta State. It was approved by the Federal Executive Council of Nigeria in 2015.\n\nChief Edwin K. Clark is the founder of Edwin Clark University, Kiagbodo, Delta State. The institution was established in May 2015.\n\nThe principal officers of the institution , are:\n\n"}
{"id": "4119715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4119715", "title": "Glossary of education terms (D–F)", "text": "Glossary of education terms (D–F)\n\nThis glossary of education-related terms is based on how they commonly are used in Wikipedia articles. This page contains terms starting with D – F. Select a letter from the table of contents to find terms on other pages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54379170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54379170", "title": "Grace Shattuck Bail", "text": "Grace Shattuck Bail\n\nGrace Shattuck Bail (1898-1996) was an American composer, poet, and teacher. \n\nBail was born in Cherry Creek, New York on January 17, 1898. She played the piano and the violin as a child. In 1919, she graduated from the Dana Musical Institute. She taught piano, organ, and violin to her students for years. Her works have been published in works such as \"The Washington Star\", \"The Pen Women\", and \"Weirdbook\".\n\nBail's \"The Sea Shell\" won the Lucile Palmer contest for penwomen in 1943 and Palmer, who was also a poet, read the poem on the radio. Her entry in \"International Encyclopedia of Women Composers\" states that she has won many awards and medals.\n"}
{"id": "56615388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56615388", "title": "György Marx", "text": "György Marx\n\nGyörgy Marx (May 25, 1927, Budapest, Hungary – December 2, 2002, ibidem) was a Hungarian physicist, astrophysicist, science historian and professor. He discovered the Lepton numbers and established the Law of Lepton Flavor Conservation.\n\nHe was the first non-British laureate of the Bragg Medal of the Institute of Physics. He deserved it for his \"outstanding contributions to physics education\".\n\nMarx died on the December 2, 2002 in Budapest after a serious illness. On December 18 he was buried at the Farkasréti Cemetery with Reformed ceremony in the presence of his family, friends, disciples, colleagues and fellow scientists. Szilveszter E. Vizi, neuroscientist and president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences said the prayer for him.\n"}
{"id": "4383861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4383861", "title": "HOSA (organization)", "text": "HOSA (organization)\n\nHOSA-Future Health Professionals, formerly known as Health Occupations Students of America (HOSA), is a national career and technical student organization endorsed by the U.S. Department of Education and the Health Science Technology Education Division of ACTE. HOSA is composed of middle school, secondary, and post secondary/collegiate students, along with professional, alumni, and honorary members. It is headquartered in Southlake, Texas, and is the largest student organization which prepares students to enter the healthcare field.\n\nHOSA was founded in 1976 out of a task force from the American Vocational Association in order to determine whether a new student organization accommodating healthcare students was necessary. \n\nFrom November 4–7, 1975, the State Department of Education and Division of Vocational Education in New Jersey with 18 representatives from Alabama, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma and Texas voted to form the American Health Occupations Education Student Organization. \n\nOn November 10–13, 1976, in a constitutional convention in Arlington, Texas AHOESO adopted bylaws, which also changed the organization's name to Health Occupations Students of America; elected national leaders; selected colors and a motto; made plans to design an emblem; and set the first National Leadership Conference for the spring of 1978 in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.\n\nIn 2004, the organization dropped the acronym from its name, and began publishing all documents under the brand \"HOSA - Future Health Professionals.\"\n\nThe official HOSA uniform consists of a navy blue suit with maroon accent in the form of a tie for men or a scarf for women. The HOSA emblem is affixed to the suit jacket.\n\nMembers meet annually at an International Leadership Conference held in late June in cities across the United States. Over 7,500 students participate in exciting general sessions, competitive events, and leadership experiences, all while networking with health sciences students from nearly all 50 states and a few nations, including Canada and Mexico.\n\nPast and upcoming NLCs include:\n\n\nHOSA currently offers 58 competitive events, ranging from skill-based to leadership and team-based. Members compete at the regional, state, and international levels. Those who place in the top three positions at the state level are given the opportunity to compete at the international level.\n\n"}
{"id": "38200348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38200348", "title": "Harry S. Crowe", "text": "Harry S. Crowe\n\nHarry Sherman Crowe (1922–1981) was a history professor, university administrator and labour researcher. In 1958, his firing by United College gained national attention. In raising questions about the security of academic freedom and tenure in Canada, Crowe’s case became a catalyst in solidifying the work of the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) in defending academic freedom and ensuring scholarly rights for academic staff in Canada.\n\nCrowe began his academic studies at United College (now the University of Winnipeg) in 1938. He enlisted in the army during World War II; attaining the rank of captain. Upon returning from military duty in Europe, Crowe studied at University of Manitoba (honours degree), and later pursued graduate studies at University of Toronto (M.A.) and Columbia University (Ph.D.). In 1950, he was hired at United College. In 1951, he was awarded tenure and was later promoted to associate professor in 1956.\n\nThe events that led to his controversial dismissal began in 1958 when United College Principal Wilfred Lockhart obtained, by mysterious means, a letter written by Professor Crowe to his colleague, William Packer. In that letter, Crowe had expressed concern with the religious and academic environment at United College and the worrying prospect of a Conservative victory in the upcoming federal election. Lockhart raised the letter to the College’s Board of Regents. Professor Crowe was subsequently fired on the grounds that the letter demonstrated his incompatibility with the \"avowed purposes\" of the College and his lack of respect and loyalty to the administration. Crowe objected to his dismissal by arguing, among other things, that the letter was private in nature and its reading by Principal Lockhart was unauthorized.\n\nCrowe’s termination prompted local and national concern about academic freedom and the status of tenure in higher education. Kenneth McNaught, Stewart Reid, and Richard Stingle announced they would resign in protest.\n\nCrowe’s dismissal, along with public concern about the affair, prompted the Canadian Association of University Teachers to step in by forming an ad hoc committee of enquiry—the first such committee established by CAUT, which was formed in 1951. In 1959, the final report of the CAUT investigation was delivered by University of Toronto law professor Bora Laskin and University of Saskatchewan economist Vernon Fowke. The \"Fowke-Laskin Report\" concluded that Crowe’s dismissal was \"an unjust and unwarranted invasion of the security of academic tenure.\" The report further determined that the Board of Regents mishandled the complaint against Professor Crowe, violating natural justice, due process, and academic freedom.\n\nThe release of the Fowke-Laskin report compelled the Board of Regents to reinstate Professor Crowe. However, the Board refused to reinstate his colleagues—McNaught, Reid, and Stingle—who had resigned in support of Harry Crowe. In protest, Crowe and twelve other faculty resigned from their positions at United College. Among them were: Michael Oliver, Fred Harper, Walter Young, Margaret Stobie, Roman R. March, G.E. Panting, Hugh R. Makepeace, Kay Sigurjonsson, William Packer, John Warkentin, Michael Jaremko, and Elizabeth F. Morrison.\n\nOne year after the Crowe events, CAUT adopted its first policy statement on academic freedom and established an Academic Freedom and Tenure Committee, which continues to monitor and investigate freedom matters for academic staff in Canada.\n\nFollowing the incident at United College, Crowe worked for several years as a labour researcher for the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport, and General Workers. He returned to the academy for a teaching post at Atkinson College, York University, where he was a professor (1966–1969) and then college dean (1969–1974 and 1979–1981). Crowe also wrote as a columnist for both the \"Toronto Telegram\" and \"Chatelaine\". He was co-author of \"A Source-Book of Canadian History: Selected Documents and Personal Papers.\"\n\nIn 2002, the Canadian Association of University Teachers established the Harry Crowe Foundation, a charitable organization that undertakes education and research on the role of post-secondary teaching and research in contemporary society.\n\n"}
{"id": "57927662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57927662", "title": "JMC Academy", "text": "JMC Academy\n\nJMC Academy (JMC), founded in 1982, is an Australian multi-campus private university located in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.\n\nJMC is recognised as a quality tertiary education provider by the Australian Government’s Tertiary Education Quality & Standards Agency (TEQSA) and the Australian Skills Quality Authority (ASQA).\n\nIn 2013, JMC was awarded the Higher Education Provider of the Year by the Australian Council for Private Education and Training (ACPET). In the same year JMC Academy became the only Australian institution to join the Berklee College of Music’s International Network.\n\nJMC Academy was established in 1982 by Jon Martin Cass. The first campus was located in Sydney. It became the first private college to qualify for Audio Engineering, Digital Television and Digital Multimedia accreditation.\n\nIn 1988 JMC Academy was approved to accept international students, and in 1991, received accreditation in Audio Engineering, making JMC Academy Australia’s first institution to offer accredited digital multimedia courses.\n\nIn 1994, JMC received accreditation in Music Business Management and then in 1996, accreditation for Multimedia. 1997 then saw JMC receive accreditation for Popular Music & Performance before becoming Australia’s first institution to offer accredited Digital TV courses when they received accreditation in Digital Television Production in 2000. 2001 then saw the opening of JMC’s Melbourne Campus. In 2005, the Sydney campus received approval to deliver Higher Education courses followed by the Melbourne campus in 2006. JMC’s Brisbane campus then opened in 2007 receiving approval to deliver Higher Education courses the following year.\n\n2012 saw JMC launch a Game Design course. In 2013, JMC became a Berklee College of Music partner and won the ACPET Awards for ‘Higher Education Provider of the Year’ & ‘Teacher of the Year’.\n\nJMC’s Digital Design & Songwriting courses launched in 2014, followed by the launch of the APRA AMCOS Scholarship in 2016. 2018 saw the launch of JMC’s Master of Creative Industries course, and a new 8-floor campus opens in Brisbane.\n\nJMC has three campuses across Australia.\n\nThe campus has three floors and spans just under 3,000 square meters and is located opposite South Wales opposite the Powerhouse Museum within the education hub of Central Sydney.\n\nThe-8 floor campus is prominently located adjacent to the Queensland State Library, Art Gallery, Museum, and Performing Arts Centre.\n\nThe campus is located in South Melbourne between the south bank of the Yarra River and Port Phillip Bay.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55539701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55539701", "title": "Laetitia Rispel", "text": "Laetitia Rispel\n\nLaetitia Charmaine Rispel is a South African Professor of Public Health at the University of the Witwatersrand. Rispel's work has investigated health policy and management and health services research.\n\nRispel has served consecutively as the head of the Gauteng Department of Health (from 2001), Human Sciences Research Council of South Africa HIV/AIDS research program (from 2006) and the University of the Witwatersrand School of Public Health (from 2012). From 2008 - 2014 she was the president of the Public Health Association of South Africa.\nShe holds the National Research Foundation of South Africa Research Chair on Health Workforce for Equity, and Quality and in 2016 she was elected as vice-president/president elect of the World Federation of Public Health Associations. She is a member of the Academy of Science of South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2814794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2814794", "title": "Leah Bracknell", "text": "Leah Bracknell\n\nAlison Rosalind Bracknell (born 12 July 1964), known professionally as Leah Bracknell, is an English actress, known for her role as Zoe Tate in the ITV soap opera \"Emmerdale\" (1989—2005), for which she was nominated for the 2002 National Television Award for Most Popular Actress and won the 2006 British Soap Award for Best Exit. She is also a qualified teacher with the British School of Yoga and designs and produces her own line of jewellery.\n\nBorn in Westminster, London, Bracknell is the daughter of the late English television director David Ian Bracknell (1932–1987) and Chinese-Malaysian actress Li-Er Hwang.\nHer parents met while filming \"The World of Suzie Wong\" in Hong Kong in 1959. David was an assistant director and Li-Er played the part of \"Wednesday Lu\" in the film. The adopted name \"Leah\" is an anglicization of her mother's name \"Li-Er\". Bracknell grew up in London and Oxford and spent a year in New Zealand and Fiji.\n\nBracknell first appeared on TV series \"The Chiffy Kids\" in 1976, which was directed by her father, David. She is a member of the Screen Actors Guild. After leaving \"Emmerdale\", she returned to the theatre appearing as Mrs Manningham in \"Gaslight\" and \"Strangers on a Train\". In 2008, she joined the touring Theatreworks production of \"Turn of the Screw\" to play the lead role, that of the governess. She has also appeared in the TV dramas \"Judge John Deed\", \"Casualty 1907\" and in the daytime soap \"Doctors\". In June 2007, she joined the cast of ITV1 daytime soap \"The Royal Today\" as Matron Jenny Carrington.\n\nAfter attending the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art within two years of leaving she was cast in the ITV1 soap opera, \"Emmerdale\" playing the role of vet and land owner, Zoe Tate. She appeared in the programme for 16 years (with breaks, including two spells of maternity leave) until leaving the serial in 2005. She was initially only due to leave for nine months but has not returned since. The character was the first lesbian on a British soap and was one of the longest-featured gay characters on television, as well as lead actress on the show.\n\nBracknell won the 'Best Exit' award at the British Soap Awards in May 2006 for her exit from the role of Zoe Tate, she was part of the scene, which was nominated for \"Spectacular Scene of the Year\". In 2002 she was nominated for 'Most Popular Actress' at the \"National Television Awards\" and \"Best Dramatic Performance\" at the British Soap Awards.\n\nShe has two children and lives in Worthing, Sussex. She has taught meditation and yoga since leaving \"Emmerdale\".\n\nIn October 2016, Bracknell revealed that she had been diagnosed with stage 4 terminal lung cancer. A fundraising appeal to pay for experimental treatment in Germany hit its target of £50,000 within three days. Bracknell made appearances on \"This Morning\" and \"Loose Women\" where she talked about her cancer and her determination to fight it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18862314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18862314", "title": "Learning and skills in England", "text": "Learning and skills in England\n\nIn England, learning and skills refers typically to post-compulsory education and training, provided by further education and sixth form colleges, schools with sixth forms, local authority and adult education institutions, private and voluntary sector providers, offender learning, and workplace learning including Apprenticeships and other employer-facing initiatives. \nThe learning and skills sector is vital to increasing productivity, economic competitiveness and sustainable employment in the UK\n\nLearning and skills also refers to the actual learning which learners undertake and the skills they acquire.\n\nFunding of provision is subject to frequent change. The former Learning and Skills Council (2001-2010) was replaced by the Skills Funding Agency (still operating April 2012) and the Young People's Learning Agency (now closed and incorporated into the Education Funding Agency from April 2012). It is wise to consult government department websites - Department for Education, and DBIS, for updated information.\n\nThe learning and skills sector is made up of a number of different training providers, such as colleges and private organisations, and also includes workplace learning and offender learning.\n\nFurther education colleges can vary considerably in size, and in the subjects and facilities they offer. Many are ‘general’ FE colleges and offer courses in a wide range of subject areas.\n\nSome further education colleges are specialist colleges, and offer subjects such as agriculture and horticulture, drama and dance. Other specialist colleges cater for students with a particular disability or learning difficulty.\n\nPrivate training providers can include profit-making or voluntary organisations.\n\nSixth forms also vary a lot in size, and in the courses and facilities they offer. Sixth form colleges tend to be larger and more informal than school sixth forms and offer both academic style courses (such as A levels) and vocational programmes.\n\nWorkplace learning falls into a number of categories. It can include training for people looking for work, for people learning how to do a job (for example through Apprenticeships or for people learning new skills in their current job (through continuing professional development or employer-facing work initiatives such as Train to Gain). Workplace learning can be offered through different mediums - classroom training, e-learning, or blended learning, a mix of the two.\n\nOffender learning is provides learning activities for offenders in prison or those in the community under the supervision of the Probation Service.\n\nProgrammes offered by learning and skills providers are very diverse and range from basic skills basic skills courses to Foundation Degrees, including both academic and vocational qualifications.\nThese programmes are accredited by various awarding bodies, under the supervision of the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority which regulates the qualifications system in England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "916431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916431", "title": "Lideta Catholic Cathedral School", "text": "Lideta Catholic Cathedral School\n\nLideta Catholic Cathedral School is a primary and secondary school located in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. It is affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church. It was founded in 1954.\n\nThe school has a range of extracurricular activities. At the end of each year Every student is expected to join at least two clubs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10899796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10899796", "title": "Lilli Nielsen", "text": "Lilli Nielsen\n\nDr. Lilli Nielsen (\"née\" Reker) (b. December 21, 1926, Rønne, Bornholm; † June 24, 2013, Kolding, Denmark) was a Danish psychologist in the field of teaching blind children and those with multiple disabilities. She has written several books on the subject. \nShe was the second of seven children, four of whom were born blind. When she was seven she was charged with the responsibility of taking care of her blind younger brother.\n\nShe was a preschool teacher, then worked in a hospital, became a psychologist, and eventually was hired to teach the blind.\n\nIn 1988 she earned a PhD in psychology at the University of Århus.\n\nLilli Nielsen has worked as special education adviser at Refsnaesskolen, National Institute to Blind and Partially Sighted Children and Youth in Denmark.\n\nShe has been awarded the Knight Order of the Dannebrog.\n\nDr. Lilli Nielsen died on the June 24, 2013, at the public hospital of Kolding after a short period of illness (pneumonia).\n\nThe Active Learning approach emphasizes that all individuals learn best by active participation. All activity, especially in the earliest stages of development, actually \"wires our brains\" and establishes critical foundational concepts and skills necessary for all future learning.\n\nIndividuals with multiple disabilities (cerebral palsy, visual impairment, cognitive impairment, autism, hearing impairment, etc.) are at great risk from developing reliance on others to interact with the world around them. They learn to be a passive rather than active participant, waiting for adults to provide activity rather than seeking it out on their own. Children and adults with special needs often develop stereotypical or aggressive behaviors in order to communicate with others or cope within the environments in which they are placed. Active Learning recognizes that every child/adult with special needs is unique. The programming and intervention for facilitating learning must reflect this individuality.\n\nActive Learning emphasizes creating a developmentally appropriate and enriched environment so that children and adults with multiple special needs become active learners.\n\nDr. Nielsen's Active Learning approach addresses the breakdowns that can occur at the earliest stages of development due to an individual's inability to access the world because of disabilities including visual impairment, cerebral palsy, cognitive disabilities, hearing impairment, autism and other disabilities.\n\nOne of her most famous ideas is that of the \"little room.\" This is a box that is laid over a blind or severely disabled child that has toys and other stimuli hanging from it. The child can then explore and play with the toys. Most will vocalize, even for the first time, due to the superior acoustics of the Little Room. As Nielsen wrote: \"The purpose of the 'Little Room' is to facilitate blind children's achievement of spatial relations and reaching behaviour, but it can also be of considerable help for sighted low functioning children.\"\n\nThe HOPSA-dress provides vertical orientation, without the need for weightbearing, to children with multiple disabilities. Items with interesting textures can be placed near the feet for tactile stimulation. Later, the pulley system can be adjusted so that the child can bear weight gradually, at their own pace.\n"}
{"id": "32232304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32232304", "title": "List of attacks related to primary schools", "text": "List of attacks related to primary schools\n\nThese are attacks that have occurred on school property or related primarily to school issues or events. A narrow definition of \"attack\" is used for this list to exclude attacks during warfare, robberies, gang violence, political or police attacks (as related to protests), accidents, single suicides, and murder-suicides by rejected spouses or suitors, as they are not the type of mass murder event that is the focus of concern. Incidents that involved only staff who work at the school have been classified as belonging at List of workplace killings. It also excludes events where no injuries take place, if an attack is foiled. Accounts without reliable sources have been deleted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "426660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426660", "title": "List of educational programming languages", "text": "List of educational programming languages\n\nAn educational programming language is a programming language that is designed mostly as an instrument for learning, and less as a tool for writing programs to perform work.\n\nMany educational programming languages position themselves inside a learning path, that is, a sequence of languages each designed to build on the others moving a student from easy to understand and entertaining environments to full professional environments. Some of the better known are presented below.\n\nOriginally, machine code was the first and only way to program computers. Assembly language was the next type of language used, and thus is one of the oldest families of computer languages in use today. Many dialects and implementations are available, usually some for each computer processor architecture. It is very basic and termed a low level programming language. It is one of the more difficult languages to work with being untyped and rigid, but this is how computers work at low level. Several simplified dialects exist for education.\n\nLow level languages must be written for a specific processor architecture and cannot be written or taught in isolation without referencing the processor for which it was written. Unlike higher level languages, using an educational assembly language needs a representation of a processor, whether virtualized or physical. Assembly is the most helpful language to use for learning about fundamental computer processor operation.\n\n\n\"BASIC\" (which stands for Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code) was invented in 1964 to provide computer access to non-science students. It became popular on minicomputers during the 1960s, and became a standard computing language for microcomputers during the late 1970s and early 1980s. The goals of BASIC were focused on the needs of learning to program easily: be easy for beginners to use, be interactive, provide clear and friendly error messages, respond quickly, do not require an understanding of computer hardware or operating systems. What made BASIC particularly useful for education was the small size of programs. Useful programs to illustrate a concept could be written in a dozen lines. At the same time BASIC did not require mathematical or computer science sophistication. BASIC continues to this day to be frequently self-taught with excellent tutorials and implementations. See List of BASIC dialects by platform for a complete list. BASIC offers a learning path from learning oriented BASICs such as Microsoft Small Basic, BASIC-256 and SiMPLE, to more full featured BASICs like Visual Basic .NET and Gambas.\n\n\n\nSun Microsystems's recommended path is Greenfoot to BlueJ to Netbeans-BlueJ to Netbeans-Java.\n\n\n\nLisp is the second oldest family of programming languages in use today, and as such has of dialects and implementations at a wide range of difficulties. Lisp was originally created as a practical mathematical notation for computer programs, based on lambda calculus, which makes it particularly well suited for teaching theories of computing. As one of the earliest languages, Lisp pioneered many ideas in computer science, including tree data structures, automatic storage management, dynamic typing, object-oriented programming, and the self-hosting compiler all of which are useful for learning computer science.\n\nThe name \"LISP\" derives from \"LISt Processing language\". Linked lists are one of the languages' major data structures, and Lisp source code is made of lists. Thus, Lisp programs can manipulate source code as a data structure, giving rise to the macro systems that allow programmers to create new syntax or even new domain-specific languages embedded in Lisp. So Lisps are useful for learning language design, and creating custom languages.\n\nA reasonable learning path would be Logo followed by any educational variant such as Scheme or newLISP, followed by a professional variant such as Common LISP.\n\n\n\n\n\nAs part of the One Laptop per Child project, a sequence of Smalltalk-based languages has been developed, each designed to act as an introduction to the next. The structure is Scratch to Etoys to Squeak to any Smalltalk.\nEach provides graphical environments which may be used to teach not only programming concepts to kids but also physics and mathematics simulations, story-telling exercises, etc., through the use of constructive learning. Smalltalk and Squeak are fully featured application development languages that have been around and well respected for decades; Scratch is a children's learning tool.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following chart helps to summarize the information above for parents and teachers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42234192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42234192", "title": "Master of Physical Education", "text": "Master of Physical Education\n\nThe Master of Physical Education (M.P.Ed or MPhEd) is a postgraduate academic degree in physical education awarded by universities.\n\nSports Specialization curriculum.\n\n"}
{"id": "512852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512852", "title": "No Child Left Behind Act", "text": "No Child Left Behind Act\n\nThe No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB) was a U.S. Act of Congress that reauthorized the Elementary and Secondary Education Act; it included Title I provisions applying to disadvantaged students. It supported standards-based education reform based on the premise that setting high standards and establishing measurable goals could improve individual outcomes in education. The Act required states to develop assessments in basic skills. To receive federal school funding, states had to give these assessments to all students at select grade levels.\n\nThe act did not assert a national achievement standard—each state developed its own standards. NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through further emphasis on annual testing, annual academic progress, report cards, and teacher qualifications, as well as significant changes in funding.\n\nThe bill passed in the Congress with bipartisan support. By 2015, criticism from right, left, and center had accumulated so much that a bipartisan Congress stripped away the national features of No Child Left Behind. Its replacement, the Every Student Succeeds Act, turned the remnants over to the states.\n\nIt was coauthored by Representatives John Boehner (R-OH), George Miller (D-CA), and Senators Edward Kennedy (D-MA) and Judd Gregg (R-NH). The United States House of Representatives passed the bill on December 13, 2001 (voting 381–41), and the United States Senate passed it on December 18, 2001 (voting 87–10). President Bush signed it into law on January 8, 2002.\n\nNo Child Left Behind requires all public schools receiving federal funding to administer a statewide standardized test annually to all students. Schools that receive Title I funding through the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 must make Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) in test scores (e.g. each year, fifth graders must do better on standardized tests than the previous year's fifth graders).\n\nIf the school's results are repeatedly poor, then steps are taken to improve the school.\n\nStates must create AYP objectives consistent with the following requirements of the law:\n\nThe act requires states to provide \"highly qualified\" teachers to all students. Each state sets its own standards for what counts as \"highly qualified.\" Similarly, the act requires states to set \"one high, challenging standard\" for its students. Each state decides for itself what counts as \"one high, challenging standard,\" but the curriculum standards must be applied to all students, rather than having different standards for students in different cities or other parts of the state.\n\nThe act also requires schools to let military recruiters have students' contact information and other access to the student, if the school provides that information to universities or employers, unless the students opt out of giving military recruiters access. This portion of the law has drawn lots of criticism and has even led to political resistance. For instance, in 2003 in Santa Cruz, California, student-led efforts forced school districts to create an \"opt-in\" policy that required students affirm they wanted the military to have their information. This successful student organizing effort was copied in various other cities throughout the United States.\n\nSupporters of the NCLB claim one of the strong positive points of the bill is the increased accountability that is required of schools and teachers. According to the legislation, schools must pass yearly tests that judge student improvement over the fiscal year. These yearly standardized tests are the main means of determining whether schools live up to required standards. If required improvements are not made, the schools face decreased funding and other punishments that contribute to the increased accountability. According to supporters, these goals help teachers and schools realize the significance and importance of the educational system and how it affects the nation. Opponents of this law say that the punishments only hurt the schools and do not contribute to the improvement of student education.\n\nIn addition to and in support of the above points, proponents claim that No Child Left Behind:\n\nThe commonwealth of Pennsylvania has proposed tying teacher's salaries to test scores. If a district's students do poorly, the state cuts the district's budget the following year and the teachers get a pay cut. Critics point out that if a school does poorly, reducing its budget and cutting teacher salaries will likely hamper the school's ability to improve.\n\n\nThe act requires schools to rely on scientifically based research for programs and teaching methods. The act defines this as \"research that involves the application of rigorous, systematic, and objective procedures to obtain reliable and valid knowledge relevant to education activities and programs.\" Scientifically based research results in \"replicable and applicable findings\" from research that used appropriate methods to generate persuasive, empirical conclusions.\n\nPrior to the NCLB act, new teachers were typically required to have a bachelor's degree, be fully certified, and demonstrate subject matter knowledge—generally through tests. It is widely accepted that teacher knowledge has two components: specific subject matter knowledge (CK) such as an understanding of mathematics for a mathematics teacher, and pedagogical knowledge (PCK), which is knowledge of the subject of teaching/learning itself. Both types of knowledge, as well as experience in guided student teaching, help form the qualities needed by effective teachers.\n\nUnder NCLB, existing teachers—including those with tenure—were also supposed to meet standards. They could meet the same requirements set for new teachers or could meet a state-determined \"...high, objective, uniform state standard of evaluation,\" aka HOUSSE. Downfall of the quality requirements of the NCLB legislation have received little research attention, in part because state rules require few changes from pre-existing practice. There is also little evidence that the rules have altered trends in observable teacher traits. For years, American educators have been struggling to identify those teacher traits that are important contributors to student achievement. Unfortunately, there is no consensus on what traits are most important and most education policy experts agree that further research is required.\n\nSeveral analyses of state accountability systems that were in place before NCLB indicate that outcomes accountability led to faster growth in achievement for the states that introduced such systems. The direct analysis of state test scores before and after enactment of NCLB also supports its positive impact. A primary criticism asserts that NCLB reduces effective instruction and student learning by causing states to lower achievement goals and motivate teachers to \"teach to the test.\" A primary supportive claim asserts that systematic testing provides data that shed light on which schools don't teach basic skills effectively, so that interventions can be made to improve outcomes for all students while reducing the achievement gap for disadvantaged and disabled students.\n\nThe Department of Education points to the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) results, released in July 2005, showing improved student achievement in reading and math:\n\nThese statistics compare 2005 with 2000 though No Child Left Behind did not even take effect until 2003. Critics point out that the increase in scores between 2000 and 2005 was roughly the same as the increase between 2003 and 2005, which calls into question how any increase can be attributed to No Child Left Behind. They also argue that some of the subgroups are cherry-picked—that in other subgroups scores remained the same or fell. Also, the makers of the standardized tests have been blamed for making the tests easier so that it is easier for schools to sufficiently improve.\n\nEducation researchers Thomas Dee and Brian Jacob argue that NCLB showed statistically significant positive impact on students' performance on 4th-grade math exams (equal to two-thirds of a year's worth of growth), smaller and statistically insignificant improvements in 8th-grade math exam performance, and no discernible improvement in reading performance.\n\nCritics argue that the focus on standardized testing (all students in a state take the same test under the same conditions) encourages teachers to teach a narrow subset of skills that the school believes increases test performance, rather than achieve in-depth understanding of the overall curriculum. For example, a teacher who knows that all questions on a math test are simple addition problems (e.g., What is 2 + 3?) might not invest any class time on the practical applications of addition, to leave more time for the material the test assesses. This is colloquially referred to as \"teaching to the test.\" \"Teaching to the test\" has been observed to raise test scores, though not as much as other teaching techniques.\n\nMany teachers who practice \"teaching to the test\" misinterpret the educational outcomes the tests are designed to measure. On two state tests, New York and Michigan, and the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) almost two-thirds of eighth graders missed math word problems that required an application of the Pythagorean theorem to calculate the distance between two points. The teachers correctly anticipated the content of the tests, but incorrectly assumed each test would present simplistic items rather than higher-order items.\n\nAnother problem is that outside influences often affect student performance. Students who struggle to take tests may perform well using another method of learning such as project-based learning. Sometimes, factors such as home life can affect test performance. Basing performance on one test inaccurately measures student success overall. No Child Left behind has failed to account for all these factors. \n\nThose opposed to the use of testing to determine educational achievement prefer alternatives such as subjective teacher opinions, classwork, and performance-based assessments.\n\nUnder No Child Left Behind, schools were held almost exclusively accountable for absolute levels of student performance. But that meant that even schools that were making great strides with students were still labeled as \"failing\" just because the students had not yet made it all the way to a \"proficient\" level of achievement. Since 2005, the U.S. Department of Education has approved 15 states to implement growth model pilots. Each state adopted one of four distinct growth models: Trajectory, Transition Tables, Student Growth Percentiles, and Projection.\n\nThe incentives for improvement also may cause states to lower their official standards. Because each state can produce its own standardized tests, a state can make its statewide tests easier to increase scores. Missouri, for example, improved testing scores but openly admitted that they lowered the standards. A 2007 study by the U.S. Dept. of Education indicates that the observed differences in states' reported scores is largely due to differences in the stringency of their standards.\n\nMany argue that local government had failed students, necessitating federal intervention to remedy issues like teachers teaching outside their areas of expertise, and complacency in the face of continually failing schools. Some local governments, notably that of New York state, have supported NCLB provisions, because local standards failed to provide adequate oversight over special education, and NCLB would let them use longitudinal data more effectively to monitor Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP). States all over the United States have shown improvements in their progress as an apparent result of NCLB. For example, Wisconsin ranks first of all fifty states plus the District of Columbia, with ninety-eight percent of its schools achieving No Child Left Behind standards.\n\nStudent performance in other subjects (besides reading and math) will be measured as a part of overall progress.\n\nNCLB’s main focus is on skills in reading, writing, and mathematics, which are areas related to economic success. Combined with the budget crises in the late-2000s recession, some schools have cut or eliminated classes and resources for many subject areas that are not part of NCLB's accountability standards. Since 2007, almost 71% of schools have reduced instruction time in subjects such as history, arts, language, and music to provide more time and resources to mathematics and English.\n\nIn some schools, the classes remain available, but individual students who are not proficient in basic skills are sent to remedial reading or mathematics classes rather than arts, sports, or other optional subjects.\n\nAccording to Paul Reville, the author of \"Stop Narrowing of the Curriculum By Right-Sizing School Time,\" teachers are learning that students need more time to excel in the \"needed\" subjects. The students need more time to achieve the basic goals that should come by somewhat relevant to a student.\n\nPhysical Education, on the other hand, is one of the subjects least affected. Some might find this confusing because like many electives and non-core classes, No Child Left Behind does not address Physical Education directly. Two reasons why Physical Education is not adversely affected include the obesity crisis in the United States that the federal government is trying to reverse through programs like First Lady Michelle Obama's \"Let's Move Campaign,\" which among other things, looks to improve the quantity and quality of physical education. Secondly, there is research, including a 2005 study by Dr. Charles H. Hillmam of The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign that concludes that fitness is globally related to academic achievement.\n\nThe opportunities, challenges, and risks that No Child Left Behind poses for science education in elementary and middle schools—worldwide competition insists on rapidly improving science education. Adding science assessments to the NCLB requirements may ultimately result in science being taught in more elementary schools and by more teachers than ever before. 2/3 of elementary school teachers indicated that they were not familiar with national science standards. Most concern circulates around the result that, consuming too much time for language arts and mathematics may limit children's experience—and curiosity and interest—in sciences.\n\nBoth U.S. conservative and liberal critics have argued that NCLB's new standards in federalizing education set a negative precedent for further erosion of state and local control. Libertarians further argue that the federal government has no constitutional authority in education, which is why participation in NCLB is technically optional. They believe that states need not comply with NCLB so long as they forgo the federal funding that comes with it.\n\nNCLB pressures schools to guarantee that nearly all students meet the minimum skill levels (set by each state) in reading, writing, and arithmetic—but requires nothing beyond these minima. It provides no incentives to improve student achievement beyond the bare minimum. Programs not essential for achieving mandated minimum skills are neglected or canceled by those districts.\n\nIn particular, NCLB does not require any programs for gifted, talented, and other high-performing students. Federal funding of gifted education decreased by a third over the law's first five years. There was only one program that helped improve the gifted: they received $9.6 million. In the 2007 budget, President George W. Bush zeroed this out. While NCLB is silent on the education of academically gifted students, some states (such as Arizona, California, Virginia, and Pennsylvania) require schools to identify gifted students and provide them with an appropriate education, including grade advancement. Research tells us an IQ of 120 is needed. In other states, such as Michigan, state funding for gifted and talented programs was cut by up to 90% in the year after the Act became law.\n\n\"There's a fallacy in the law and everybody knows it,\" said Alabama State Superintendent Joe Morton on Wednesday, August 11, 2010. According to the No Child Left Behind Act, by 2014, every child is supposed to test on grade level in reading and math. \"That can't happen,\" said Morton. \"You have too many variables and you have too many scenarios, and everybody knows that would never happen.\" Alabama State Board Member Mary Jane Caylor said, \"I don't think that No Child Left Behind has benefited this state.\" She argued the goal of 100 percent proficiency is unattainable. Charles Murray wrote of the law: \"The United States Congress, acting with large bipartisan majorities, at the urging of the President, enacted as the law of the land that all children are to be above average.\"\n\nThe system of incentives and penalties sets up a strong motivation for schools, districts, and states to manipulate test results. For example, schools have been shown to employ \"creative reclassification\" of high school dropouts (to reduce unfavorable statistics). For example, at Sharpstown High School in Houston, Texas, more than 1,000 students began high school as freshmen, and four years later, fewer than 300 students were enrolled in the senior class. However, none of these \"missing\" students from Sharpstown High were reported as dropouts.\n\nThe act is promoted as requiring 100% of students (including disadvantaged and special education students) within a school to reach the same state standards in reading and mathematics by 2014; detractors charge that a 100% goal is unattainable, and critics of the NCLB requirement for \"one high, challenging standard\" claim that some students are simply unable to perform at the given level for their age, no matter how effective the teacher is. While statewide standards reduce the educational inequality between privileged and underprivileged districts in a state, they still impose a \"one size fits all\" standard on individual students. Particularly in states with high standards, schools can be punished for not being able to dramatically raise the achievement of students that may have below-average capabilities.\n\nIn fact, the \"all\" in NCLB means only 95% of students, because states must report the assessment scores of 95% of students when calculating Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) scores. Students who have an Individual Education Plan (IEP) and who are assessed must receive the accommodations specified in the IEP during assessment; if these accommodations do not change the nature of the assessment, then these students' scores are counted the same as any other student's score. Common acceptable changes include extended test time, testing in a quieter room, translation of math problems into the student's native language, or allowing a student to type answers instead of writing them by hand.\n\nSimply being classified as having special education needs does not automatically exempt students from assessment. Most students with mild disabilities or physical disabilities take the same test as non-disabled students.\n\nIn addition to not requiring 5% of students to be assessed at all, regulations let schools use alternate assessments to declare up to 1% of all students proficient for the purposes of the Act. States are given broad discretion in selecting alternate assessments. For example, a school may accept an Advanced Placement test for English in lieu of the English test written by the state, and simplified tests for students with significant cognitive disabilities. The Virginia Alternate Assessment Program (VAAP) and Virginia Grade Level Alternative (VGLA) options, for example, are portfolio assessments.\n\nOrganizations that support NCLB assessment of disabled or limited English proficient (LEP) students say that inclusion ensures that deficiencies in the education of these disadvantaged students are identified and addressed. Opponents say that testing students with disabilities violates the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) by making students with disabilities learn the same material as non-disabled students.\n\nNCLB includes incentives to reward schools showing progress for students with disabilities and other measures to fix or provide students with alternative options than schools not meeting the needs of the disabled population. The law is written so that the scores of students with IEPs (Individualized Education Plans) and 504 plans are counted just as other students' scores are counted. Schools have argued against having disabled populations involved in their AYP measurements because they claim that there are too many variables involved.\n\nStemming from the Education for All Handicapped Children Act (EAHCA) of 1975, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) was enacted in its first form in 1997, and then reenacted with new education aspects in 2006 (although still referred to as IDEA 2004). It kept the EAHCA requirements of free and accessible education for all children. The 2004 IDEA authorized formula grants to states and discretionary grants for research, technology, and training. It also required schools to use research-based interventions to assist students with disabilities.\n\nThe amount of funding each school would receive from its \"Local Education Agency\" for each year would be divided by the number of children with disabilities and multiplied by the number of students with disabilities participating in the schoolwide programs.\n\nParticularly since 2004, policymakers have sought to align IDEA with NCLB. The most obvious points of alignment include the shared requirements for Highly Qualified Teachers, for establishment of goals for students with special needs, and for assessment levels for these students. In 2004, George Bush signed provisions that would define for both of these acts what was considered a \"highly qualified teacher.\"\n\nThe National Council on Disability (NCD) looks at how NCLB and IDEA are improving outcomes for students with Down syndrome. The effects they investigate include reducing the number of students who drop out, increasing graduation rates, and effective strategies to transition students to post-secondary education. Their studies have reported that NCLB and IDEA have changed the attitudes and expectations for students with disabilities. They are pleased that students are finally included in state assessment and accountability systems. NCLB made assessments be taken \"seriously,\" they found, as now assessments and accommodations are under review by administrators.\n\nAnother organization that found positive correlations between NCLB and IDEA was the National Center on Educational Outcomes. It published a brochure for parents of students with disabilities about how the two (NCLB & IDEA) work well together because they \"provide both individualized instruction and school accountability for students and disabilities.\" They specifically highlight the new focus on \"shared responsibility of general and special education teachers,\" forcing schools to have disabled students more on their radar.\" They do acknowledge, however, that for each student to \"participate in the general curriculum [of high standards for all students] and make progress toward proficiency,\" additional time and effort for coordination are needed. The National Center on Educational Outcomes reported that now disabled students will receive \"...the academic attention and resources they deserved.\"\n\nParticular research has been done on how the laws impact students who are deaf or hard of hearing. First, the legislation makes schools responsible for how students with disabilities score—emphasizing \"...student outcomes instead of placement.\" It also puts the public’s eye on how outside programs can be utilized to improve outcomes for this underserved population, and has thus prompted more research on the effectiveness of certain in- and out-of-school interventions. For example, NCLB requirements have made researchers begin to study the effects of read aloud or interpreters on both reading and mathematics assessments, and on having students sign responses that are then recorded by a scribe.\n\nStill, research thus far on the positive effects of NCLB/IDEA is limited. It has been aimed at young students in an attempt to find strategies to help them learn to read. Evaluations also have included a limited number of students, which make it very difficult to draw conclusions to a broader group. Evaluations also focus only on one type of disabilities.\n\nThe National Council for Disabilities had reservations about how the regulations of NCLB fit with those of IDEA. One concern is how schools can effectively intervene and develop strategies when NCLB calls for group accountability rather than individual student attention. The Individual nature of IDEA is \"inconsistent with the group nature of NCLB.\" They worry that NCLB focuses too much on standardized testing and not enough on the work-based experience necessary for obtaining jobs in the future. Also, NCLB is measured essentially by a single test score, but IDEA calls for various measures of student success.\n\nIDEA's focus on various measures stems from its foundation in Individualized Education Plans for students with disabilities (IEP). An IEP is designed to give students with disabilities individual goals that are often not on their grade level. An IEP is intended for \"developing goals and objectives that correspond to the needs of the student, and ultimately choosing a placement in the least restrictive environment possible for the student.\" Under the IEP, students could be able to legally have lowered success criteria for academic success.\n\nA 2006 report by the Center for Evaluation and Education Policy (CEEP) and the Indiana Institute on Disability and Community indicated that most states were not making AYP because of special education subgroups even though progress had been made toward that end. This was in effect pushing schools to cancel the inclusion model and keep special education students separate. \"IDEA calls for individualized curriculum and assessments that determine success based on growth and improvement each year. NCLB, in contrast, measures all students by the same markers, which are based not on individual improvement but by proficiency in math and reading,\" the study states. When interviewed with the Indiana University Newsroom, author of the CEEP report Sandi Cole said, \"The system needs to make sense. Don't we want to know how much a child is progressing towards the standards?...We need a system that values learning and growth over time, in addition to helping students reach high standards.\" Cole found in her survey that NCLB encourages teachers to teach to the test, limiting curriculum choices/options, and to use the special education students as a \"scapegoat\" for their school not making AYP. In addition, Indiana administrators who responded to the survey indicated that NCLB testing has led to higher numbers of students with disabilities dropping out of school.\n\nLegal journals have also commented on the incompatibility of IDEA and NCLB; some say the acts may never be reconciled with one another. They point out that an IEP is designed specifically for individual student achievement, which gives the rights to parents to ensure that the schools are following the necessary protocols of Free Appropriate Public Education (FAPE). They worry that not enough emphasis is being placed on the child's IEP with this setup. In Board of Education for Ottawa Township High School District 140 v. Spelling, two Illinois school districts and parents of disabled students challenged the legality of NCLB’s testing requirements in light of IDEA’s mandate to provide students with individualized education. Although students there were aligned with \"proficiency\" to state standards, students did not meet requirements of their IEP. Their parents feared that students were not given right to FAPE. The case questioned which better indicated progress: standardized test measures, or IEP measures? It concluded that since some students may never test on grade level, all students with disabilities should be given more options and accommodations with standardized testing than they currently receive.\n\n\nAll students who are learning English would have an automatic three-year window to take assessments in their native language, after which they must normally demonstrate proficiency on an English-language assessment. However, the local education authority may grant an exception to any individual English learner for another two years' testing in his or her native language on a case-by-case basis.\n\nIn practice, however, only 10 states choose to test any English language learners in their native language (almost entirely Spanish speakers). The vast majority of English language learners are given English language assessments.\n\nMany schools test or assess students with limited English proficiency even when the students are exempt from NCLB-mandated reporting, because the tests may provide useful information to the teacher and school. In certain schools with large immigrant populations, this exemption comprises a majority of young students.\n\nNCLB testing under-reports learning at non-English-language immersion schools, particularly those that immerse students in Native American languages. NCLB requires some Native American students to take standardized tests in English. In other cases, the students could be legally tested in their native language, except that the state has not paid to have the test translated.\n\nOne study found that schools in California and Illinois that have not met AYP serve 75–85% minority students while schools meeting AYP have less than 40% minority students. Schools that do not meet AYP are required to offer their students' parents the opportunity to transfer their students to a non-failing school within the district, but it is not required that the other school accepts the student. NCLB controls the portion of federal Title I funding based upon each school meeting annual set standards. Any participating school that does not make Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) for two years must offer parents the choice to send their child to a non-failing school in the district, and after three years, must provide supplemental services, such as free tutoring or after-school assistance. After five years of not meeting AYP, the school must make dramatic changes to how the school is run, which could entail state-takeover.\n\nAs part of their support for NCLB, the administration and Congress backed massive increases in funding for elementary and secondary education. Total federal education funding increased from $42.2 billion to $55.7 billion from 2001, the fiscal year before the law's passage, to fiscal year 2004. A new $1 billion Reading First program was created, distributing funds to local schools to improve the teaching of reading, and over $100 million for its companion, Early Reading First. Numerous other formula programs received large increases as well. This was consistent with the administration's position of funding formula programs, which distribute money to local schools for their use, and grant programs, where particular schools or groups apply directly to the federal government for funding. In total, federal funding for education increased 59.8% from 2000 to 2003.\nThe act created a new competitive-grant program called Reading First, funded at $1.02 billion in 2004, to help states and districts set up \"scientific, research-based\" reading programs for children in grades K–3 (with priority given to high-poverty areas). A smaller early-reading program sought to help states better prepare 3- to 5-year-olds in disadvantaged areas to read. The program's funding was later cut drastically by Congress amid budget talks.\n\nFunding Changes: Through an alteration in the Title I funding formula, the No Child Left Behind Act was expected to better target resources to school districts with high concentrations of poor children. The law also included provisions intended to give states and districts greater flexibility in how they spent a portion of their federal allotments.\n\nFunding for school technology used in classrooms as part of NCLB is administered by the Enhancing Education Through Technology Program (EETT). Funding sources are used for equipment, professional development and training for educators, and updated research. EETT allocates funds by formula to states. The states, in turn, reallocate 50% of the funds to local districts by Title I formula and 50% competitively. While districts must reserve a minimum of 25% of all EETT funds for professional development, recent studies indicate that most EETT recipients use far more than 25% of their EETT funds to train teachers to use technology and integrate it into their curricula. In fact, EETT recipients committed more than $159 million in EETT funds towards professional development during the 2004–05 school year alone. Moreover, even though EETT recipients are afforded broad discretion in their use of EETT funds, surveys show that they target EETT dollars towards improving student achievement in reading and mathematics, engaging in data-driven decision making, and launching online assessment programs.\n\nIn addition, the provisions of NCLB permitted increased flexibility for state and local agencies in the use of federal education money.\n\nThe NCLB increases were companions to another massive increase in federal education funding at that time. The Bush administration and congress passed very large increases in funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) at the same time as the NCLB increases. IDEA Part B, a state formula-funding program that distributes money to local districts for the education of students with disabilities, was increased from $6.3 billion in 2001 to $10.1 billion in 2004. Because a district's and state's performance on NCLB measures depended on improved performance by students with disabilities, particularly, students with learning disabilities, this 60 percent increase in funding was also an important part of the overall approach to NCLB implementation.\n\nSome critics claim that extra expenses are not fully reimbursed by increased levels of federal NCLB funding. Others note that funding for the law increased massively following passage and that billions in funds previously allocated to particular uses could be reallocated to new uses. Even before the law's passage, Secretary of Education Rod Paige noted ensuring that children are educated remained a state responsibility regardless of federal support:\nVarious early Democratic supporters of NCLB criticize its implementation, claiming it is not adequately funded by either the federal government or the states. Ted Kennedy, the legislation's initial sponsor, once stated: \"The tragedy is that these long overdue reforms are finally in place, but the funds are not.\" Susan B. Neuman, U.S. Department of Education's former Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, commented about her worries of NCLB in a meeting of the International Reading Association:\nOrganizations have particularly criticized the unwillingness of the federal government to \"fully fund\" the act. Noting that appropriations bills always originate in the House of Representatives, it is true that during the Bush Administration, neither the Senate nor the White House has even requested federal funding up to the authorized levels for several of the act’s main provisions. For example, President Bush requested only $13.3 billion of a possible $22.75 billion in 2006. Advocacy groups note that President Bush's 2008 budget proposal allotted $61 billion for the Education Department, cutting funding by $1.3 billion from the year before. 44 out of 50 states would have received reductions in federal funding if the budget passed as it was. Specifically, funding for the Enhancing Education Through Technology Program (EETT) has continued to drop while the demand for technology in schools has increased (Technology and Learning, 2006). However, these claims focused on reallocated funds, as each of President Bush's proposed budgets increased funding for major NCLB formula programs such as Title I, including his final 2009 budget proposal.\n\nMembers of Congress have viewed these authorized levels as spending caps, not spending promises. Some opponents argue that these funding shortfalls mean that schools faced with the system of escalating penalties for failing to meet testing targets are denied the resources necessary to remedy problems detected by testing. However, federal NCLB formula funding increased by billions during this period and state and local funding increased by over $100 billion from school year 2001–02 through 2006–07.\n\nIn fiscal year 2007, $75 billion in costs were shifted from NCLB, adding further stresses on state budgets. This decrease resulted in schools cutting programs that served to educate children, which subsequently impacted the ability to meet the goals of NCLB. The decrease in funding came at a time when there was an increase in expectations for school performance. To make ends meet, many schools re-allocated funds that had been intended for other purposes (e.g., arts, sports, etc.) to achieve the national educational goals set by NCLB. Congress acknowledged these funding decreases and retroactively provided the funds to cover shortfalls, but without the guarantee of permanent aid.\n\nThe number one area where funding was cut from the national budget was in Title I funding for disadvantaged students and schools.\n\nAccording to the book \"NCLB Meets School Realities\", the act was put into action during a time of fiscal crisis for most states. While states were being forced to make budget cuts, including in the area of education, they had to incur additional expenses to comply with the requirements of the NCLB Act. The funding they received from the federal government in support of NCLB was not enough to cover the added expense necessary to adhere to the new law.\n\nThe Joint Organizational Statement on No Child Left Behind is a proposal by more than 135 national civil rights, education, disability advocacy, civic, labor, and religious groups that have signed on to a statement calling for major changes to the federal education law. The National Center for Fair & Open Testing (FairTest) initiated and chaired the meetings that produced the statement, originally released in October 2004. The statement's central message is that \"the law's emphasis needs to shift from applying sanctions for failing to raise test scores to holding states and localities accountable for making the systemic changes that improve student achievement.\" The number of organizations signing the statement has nearly quadrupled since it was launched in late 2004 and continues to grow. The goal is to influence Congress, and the broader public, as the law's scheduled reauthorization approaches.\n\nEducation critic Alfie Kohn argues that the NCLB law is \"unredeemable\" and should be scrapped. He is quoted saying \"[I]ts main effect has been to sentence poor children to an endless regimen of test-preparation drills\".\n\nIn February 2007, former Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson and Georgia Governor Roy Barnes, Co-Chairs of the Aspen Commission on No Child Left Behind, announced the release of the Commission's final recommendations for the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act. The Commission is an independent, bipartisan effort to improve NCLB and ensure it is a more useful force in closing the achievement gap that separates disadvantaged children and their peers. After a year of hearings, analysis, and research, the Commission uncovered the successes of NCLB, as well as provisions that must be significantly changed.\n\nThe Commission's goals are:\n\nThe Forum on Educational Accountability (FEA), a working group of signers of the Joint Organizational Statement on NCLB has offered an alternative proposal. It proposes to shift NCLB from applying sanctions for failing to raise test scores to supporting state and communities and holding them accountable as they make systemic changes that improve student learning.\n\nWhile many critics and policymakers believe the NCLB legislation has major flaws, it appears the policy will be in effect for the long-term, though not without major modifications.\n\nPresident Barack Obama released a blueprint for reform of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the successor to No Child Left Behind, in March 2010. Specific revisions include providing funds for states to implement a broader range of assessments to evaluate advanced academic skills, including students’ abilities to conduct research, use technology, engage in scientific investigation, solve problems, and communicate effectively.\n\nIn addition, Obama proposes that the NCLB legislation lessen its stringent accountability punishments to states by focusing more on student improvement. Improvement measures would encompass assessing all children appropriately, including English language learners, minorities, and special needs students. The school system would be re-designed to consider measures beyond reading and math tests; and would promote incentives to keep students enrolled in school through graduation, rather than encouraging student drop-out to increase AYP scores.\n\nObama’s objectives also entail lowering the achievement gap between Black and White students and also increasing the federal budget by $3 billion to help schools meet the strict mandates of the bill. There has also been a proposal, put forward by the Obama administration, that states increase their academic standards after a dumbing down period, focus on re-classifying schools that have been labeled as failing, and develop a new evaluation process for teachers and educators.\n\nThe federal government’s gradual investment in public social provisions provides the NCLB Act a forum to deliver on its promise to improve achievement for all of its students. Education critics argue that although the legislation is marked as an improvement to the ESEA in de-segregating the quality of education in schools, it is actually harmful. The legislation has become virtually the only federal social policy meant to address wide-scale social inequities, and its policy features inevitably stigmatize both schools attended by children of the poor and children in general.\n\nMoreover, critics further argue that the current political landscape of this country, which favors market-based solutions to social and economic problems, has eroded trust in public institutions and has undermined political support for an expansive concept of social responsibility, which subsequently results in a disinvestment in the education of the poor and privatization of American schools.\n\nSkeptics posit that NCLB provides distinct political advantages to Democrats, whose focus on accountability offers a way for them to speak of equal opportunity and avoid being classified as the party of big government, special interests, and minority groups—a common accusation from Republicans who want to discredit what they see as the traditional Democratic agenda. Opponents posit that NCLB has inadvertently shifted the debate on education and racial inequality to traditional political alliances. Consequently, major political discord remains between those who oppose federal oversight of state and local practices and those who view NCLB in terms of civil rights and educational equality.\n\nIn the plan, the Obama Administration responds to critiques that standardized testing fails to capture higher level thinking by outlining new systems of evaluation to capture more in depth assessments on student achievement. His plan came on the heels of the announcement of the Race to the Top initiative, a $4.35 billion reform program financed by the Department of Education through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.\n\nObama says that accurate assessments \"...can be used to accurately measure student growth; to better measure how states, districts, schools, principals, and teachers are educating students; to help teachers adjust and focus their teaching, and to provide better information to students and their families.\" He has pledged to support state governments in their efforts to improve standardized test provisions by upgrading the standards they are set to measure. To do this, the federal government gives states grants to help develop and implement assessments based on higher standards so they can more accurately measure school progress. This mirrors provisions in the Race to the Top program that require states to measure individual achievement through sophisticated data collection from kindergarten to higher education.\n\nWhile Obama plans to improve the quality of standardized testing, he does not plan to eliminate the testing requirements and accountability measures produced by standardized tests. Rather, he provides additional resources and flexibility to meet new goals. Critics of Obama’s reform efforts maintain that high-stakes testing is detrimental to school success across the country, because it encourages teachers to \"teach to the test\" and places undue pressure on teachers and schools if they fail to meet benchmarks.\n\nThe re-authorization process has become somewhat of a controversy, as lawmakers and politicians continually debate about the changes that must be made to the bill to make it work best for the educational system.\n\nIn 2012, President Obama granted waivers from NCLB requirements to several states. \"In exchange for that flexibility, those states 'have agreed to raise standards, improve accountability, and undertake essential reforms to improve teacher effectiveness,' the White House said in a statement.\"\n\nEight of the 32 NCLB waivers granted to states are conditional, meaning those states have not entirely satisfied the administration's requirements and part of their plans are under review.\n\nThe waivers of Arizona, Oregon, and Kansas are conditional, according to Acting Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education Michael Yudin. Arizona has not yet received state board approval for teacher evaluations, and Kansas and Oregon are both still developing teacher and principal evaluation guidelines.\n\nIn addition, five states that did not complete the waiver process—and one whose application was rejected—got a one-year freeze on the rising targets for standardized test scores: Alabama, Alaska, Idaho, Iowa, Maine, and West Virginia.\n\nOn April 30, 2015, a bill was introduced to Congress to replace the No Child Left Behind Act, the Every Student Succeeds Act, which was passed by the House on December 2 and the Senate on December 9, before being signed into law by President Obama on December 10, 2015. This bill affords states more flexibility in regards to setting their own respective standards for measuring school as well as student performance.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22490", "title": "Oxbridge", "text": "Oxbridge\n\nOxbridge is a portmanteau of \"Oxford\" and \"Cambridge\", the two oldest, most prestigious, and highly-ranked universities in the United Kingdom. The term is used to refer to them collectively, in contrast to other British universities, and more broadly to describe characteristics reminiscent of them, often with implications of superior social or intellectual status or elitism.\n\nAlthough both universities were founded more than eight centuries ago, the term \"Oxbridge\" is relatively recent. In William Thackeray's novel \"Pendennis\", published in 1850, the main character attends the fictional Boniface College, Oxbridge. According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", this is the first recorded instance of the word. Virginia Woolf used it, citing Thackeray, in her 1929 essay \"A Room of One's Own\". By 1957 the term was used in the \"Times Educational Supplement\" and in \"Universities Quarterly\" by 1958.\n\nWhen expanded, the universities are almost always referred to as \"Oxford and Cambridge\", the order in which they were founded. A notable exception is Japan's Cambridge and Oxford Society, probably arising from the fact that the Cambridge Club was founded there first, and also had more members than its Oxford counterpart when they amalgamated in 1905.\n\nIn addition to being a collective term, \"Oxbridge\" is often used as shorthand for characteristics the two institutions share:\n\n\nThe word \"Oxbridge\" may also be used pejoratively: as a descriptor of social class (referring to the professional classes who dominated the intake of both universities at the beginning of the twentieth century), as shorthand for an elite that \"continues to dominate Britain's political and cultural establishment\" and a parental attitude that \"continues to see UK higher education through an Oxbridge prism\", or to describe a \"pressure-cooker\" culture that attracts and then fails to support overachievers \"who are vulnerable to a kind of self-inflicted stress that can all too often become unbearable\" and high-flying state school students who find \"coping with the workload very difficult in terms of balancing work and life\" and \"feel socially out of [their] depth\".\n\nThackeray's \"Pendennis\" (1850) also introduced the term \"Camford\" as another combination of the university names – \"he was a Camford man and very nearly got the English Prize Poem\" – although this term has never achieved the same degree of usage as \"Oxbridge\". Camford was also used as the name of a fictional university city in the Sherlock Holmes story \"The Adventure of the Creeping Man\" (1923).\n\nOther portmanteaus have been coined that extend the term \"Oxbridge\", though none has achieved widespread recognition. \"Doxbridge\" is one example of this, referring to Durham, Oxford and Cambridge. \"Doxbridge\" is also used for an annual inter-collegiate sports tournament between some of the colleges of Durham, Oxford, Cambridge and York. Meanwhile, \"Woxbridge\" is seen in the name of the annual Woxbridge conference between the business schools of Warwick, Oxford and Cambridge. The term \"Loxbridge\" (referring to London, Oxford, and Cambridge) is also sometimes used, and was also adopted as the name of the Ancient History conference now known as \"AMPAH\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1591772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591772", "title": "Peabody Education Fund", "text": "Peabody Education Fund\n\nFounded of necessity due to damage caused largely by the American Civil War, the Peabody Education Fund was established by George Peabody in 1867 for the purpose of promoting \"intellectual, moral, and industrial education in the most destitute portion of the Southern States.\" The gift of foundation consisted of securities to the value of $2,100,000, of which $1,100,000 were in Mississippi State bonds, afterward repudiated. In 1869 an additional $1,000,000 was given by Mr. Peabody, with $384,000 of Florida funds, also repudiated later. The main purpose of the fund was to aid elementary education by strengthening existing schools. Because it was restricted from founding new schools, it did not benefit freedmen in the South, as there were no established schools for blacks.\n\n\"The fund introduced a new type of benefaction in that it was left without restriction in the hands of the trustees to administer. Power to close the trust after thirty years was provided on condition that two-thirds of the fund be distributed to educational institutions in the Southern states.\"\n\nThe rules of the Peabody Education Fund were strict, allowing for the distribution of about $80,000 per year over a period of thirty years. By the time of the termination of the fund in 1898, about $2,500,000 had been distributed. In 1875, the trustees of the Peabody Education Fund founded the Peabody Normal School of the South which promptly became the Peabody Normal College (1875-1911). It was maintained in connection with the University of Nashville and supported by annual donations from the Peabody Education Fund. In 1910 the Peabody College for Teachers was organized. Placed adjacent to Vanderbilt University, the college opened its doors on June 14, 1914 for summer school. In September 1915, four new buildings had been completed at a cost of $750,000. About 1915, the Peabody Education Fund ceased to exist.\n\nThe Southern Education Foundation, a not-for-profit foundation, was created in 1937 from the Peabody Education Fund and three funds intended to support education for blacks: the John F. Slater Fund, the Negro Rural School Fund, and the Virginia Randolph Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "9674784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9674784", "title": "Peter Blundell Jones", "text": "Peter Blundell Jones\n\nPeter Blundell Jones (4 January 1949 – 19 August 2016) was a British architect and architectural historian. He trained as an architect at the Architectural Association School, and held academic positions at the University of Cambridge and London South Bank University. He was a professor of architecture at the University of Sheffield from 1994 until his death in 2016.\n\nHe was a prolific author on architectural history and theory. As well as being a regular contributor to the Architectural Review, he wrote or collaborated on monographs of the work of Erik Gunnar Asplund, Hans Scharoun, Erich Mendelsohn, Hugo Häring and Günter Behnisch. \n\nJones died on 19 August 2016 at the age of 67.\n\n\nBesides his writing, he also left some buildings, such as The Round House at Stoke Canon, Devon, which he designed for his parents, and the refurbished Padley Mill, Grindleford, Derbyshire. These show their pedigree in the more human side of modernism.\n\nPeter, the second of three children, was born near Exeter, where his father, Geoffrey, was an orthopaedic surgeon, and his mother, Avis (nee Dyer), a GP. He attended an Exeter preparatory school and Blundell’s school, Tiverton.\n\nAfter he left the AA in 1972, he was commissioned to write the book on Scharoun. He then designed and built The Round House and taught for a year at the North London Polytechnic and the University of Bath, whilst also writing for the Architectural Review and Architectural Journal.\n\nPeter was an assistant lecturer at Cambridge University (1979-83) and from 1988 a principal lecturer and then reader at the South London Polytechnic. In 1992 he was named architectural journalist of the year. In 1994 he was appointed professor at the University of Sheffield School of Architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "8173871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8173871", "title": "Queen Victoria School (Fiji)", "text": "Queen Victoria School (Fiji)\n\nQueen Victoria School (QVS) is a school in Fiji. It was established in 1906 in Nasinu to provide education to the sons of Fijian Chiefs. It later moved to Nanukuloa in Ra when World War II broke out; then the school was moved to Lodoni where the two schools QVS and RKS operated side by side before eventually moving to its current site at Matavatucou, Tailevu. It then accepted students from Fijian villages based on their results in a secondary entrance examination.\n\nThe school is run as an academic college, but there is an adjoining farm which provides food to the school and serves as a training ground. Students are taught basic skills like crop and livestock husbandry, and there is a small dairy unit. These sessions usually last for about three hours and take place on Saturday morning. There is a farm manager and some permanent labourers who live on the compound.\n\nThe school is equipped with a library, chemistry and biology laboratories, computer lab and playing fields. This school takes part in cadet training and march for the passout parade. In Fiji, it is well known for high discipline.\n\nQueen Victoria School consists of four houses: VERATA (blue), REWA (yellow), BAU (green) and TOVATA (red).\n\nThe school has a chapel in a position high on a hill and overlooking the sea and surrounding hills. The services are mainly Methodist, but other denominations are catered for. There is a school choir that performs at the Sunday morning service. \n\nRugby is a popular sport; ex-students have played in rugby teams in Fiji and abroad. The school has won the Deans Trophy 22 times. QVS is well known for partaking in the Secondary Schools Athletics meet, Secondary School Rugby League and the Deans trophy Rugby Cup.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57401997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57401997", "title": "Ramón Margalef Award for Excellence in Education", "text": "Ramón Margalef Award for Excellence in Education\n\nThe Ramón Margalef Award for Excellence in Education was launched in 2008 by the Association for the Sciences of Limnology and Oceanography to recognize innovations and excellence in teaching and mentoring students in the fields of limnology and oceanography. Criteria for the award requires \"adherence to the highest standards of excellence\" in pedagogy as well as verification that the teaching techniques have furthered the field of aquatic science. The award is not affiliated with the Ramon Margalef Prize in Ecology, often referred to as the Ramon Margalef Award, given by the Generalitat de Catalunya in Barcelona. The award has been presented annually since 2009.\n\nThe winners have included:\n"}
{"id": "9266194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9266194", "title": "Richard E. McCarty", "text": "Richard E. McCarty\n\nRichard E. McCarty is the William D. Gill Professor of Biology at Johns Hopkins University. He also served as Dean of The Johns Hopkins Krieger School of Arts and Sciences for several years. In addition to lecturing in the Biology Department, McCarty oversees a research laboratory, in which graduate and undergraduate students, and post-doctoral fellows conduct various plant biochemistry-related research.\n\nHe received his B.A. degree from Johns Hopkins, as well as his Ph.D. degree. He has published dozens of scientific papers about his plant biology research, and is on the review board of several scientific journals as well.\n\nMcCarty is the son of Maclyn McCarty, American geneticist who found that the genetic material of living cells is composed of DNA.\n\n"}
{"id": "51417281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51417281", "title": "Sandra Black (economist)", "text": "Sandra Black (economist)\n\nSandra Eilene Black (born 1969) holds the Audre and Bernard Rapoport Centennial Chair in Economics and Public Affairs and is a Professor of Economics at the University of Texas at Austin. She received her B.A. from UC Berkeley and her Ph.D. in Economics from Harvard University. Since that time, she worked as an Economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and as an Assistant, Associate, and ultimately full Professor in the Department of Economics at UCLA before arriving at the University of Texas at Austin in 2010. She is currently a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), a Research Affiliate at IZA Institute of Labor Economics, and a Nonresident Senior Fellow at Brookings Institution. She served as a Member of Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers from August 2015 to January 2017. Her research focuses on the role of early life experiences on the long-run outcomes of children, as well as issues of gender and discrimination.\n"}
{"id": "27154352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27154352", "title": "Science Buddies", "text": "Science Buddies\n\nScience Buddies, formerly the Kenneth Lafferty Hess Family Charitable Foundation, is a non-profit organization that provides a website of free science project productivity tools and mentoring to support K-12 students, especially for science fairs. Founded in 2001 by engineer and high-tech businessman, Kenneth Hess, Science Buddies features STEM content and services to assist students and educators. Since its founding, it has expanded its original mission to provide teacher resources targeted for classroom and science fair use.\nScience Buddies mission is to help students to build their literacy in science and technology so they can become productive and engaged citizens in the 21st century.\n\nThe site has personalized learning tools, over 15,000 pages of scientist-developed subject matter (including experiments based on the latest academic research), and an online community of science professionals who volunteer to advise students. \n\nScience Buddies also provides resources to support parents and teachers as they guide students seeking out and performing science projects. They attempt to provide a bridge between scientists, engineers, educators, and students, giving students access to current scientific research and simultaneously giving scientists a way to reach out to young people interested in their fields.\n\nNoticing how much fun his teenage daughter had participating in science fairs but dismayed to discover a shortage of quality science fair help online, Ken Hess thought science fair \"productivity tools\" and mentoring would allow many more students to participate in science fairs and develop inspirational relationships with science role models. Over time, such a program would help students improve their science skills and literacy while inspiring them to consider careers in science and engineering. So, in early 2001, Ken Hess started a charity with a mission of developing online tools and support for students doing science fair projects.\n\nIn collaboration with high tech companies, government labs and agencies (like NOAA and NASA), universities, and other science education resources, Science Buddies offers scientist-authored tools, tips, and techniques. Dr. Doug Osheroff, (Nobel Prize winning physicist), and Dr. Bernard Harris (retired NASA astronaut) both serve on the Science Buddies scientific advisory board.\n\nScience Buddies is an award-winning website, recommended by educational organizations such as the ALA and the SciLinks program of the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA). All resources and tools on the Science Buddies website are available free to students and teachers. Science Buddies uses an underwriting model of sponsorship (similar to PBS television) by displaying sponsor information. Current corporate sponsors include several major companies, such as Best Buy, Cisco, Genentech, and Toyota USA Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3732805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732805", "title": "Shelter Island Conference", "text": "Shelter Island Conference\n\nThe first Shelter Island Conference on the was held from June 2–4, 1947 at the Ram's Head Inn in Shelter Island, New York. Shelter Island was the first major opportunity since Pearl Harbor and the Manhattan Project for the leaders of the American physics community to gather after the war. As Julian Schwinger would later recall, \"It was the first time that people who had all this physics pent up in them for five years could talk to each other without somebody peering over their shoulders and saying, 'Is this cleared?'\"\n\nThe conference, which cost $850, was followed by the Pocono Conference of 1948 and the Oldstone Conference of 1949. They were arranged with the assistance of J. Robert Oppenheimer and the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). Later Oppenheimer deemed Shelter Island the most successful scientific meeting he had ever attended; and as Richard Feynman recalled to Jagdish Mehra in April 1970: \"There have been many conferences in the world since, but I've never felt any to be as important as this... The Shelter Island Conference was my first conference with the big men... I had never gone to one like this in peacetime.\"\n\nThe conference was conceived by Duncan MacInnes, a scientist studying electrochemistry at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. Once the president of the New York Academy of Sciences, MacInnes had already organized a number of small scientific conferences. However, he believed that the later conferences had suffered from a bloated attendance, and over this issue, he resigned from the Academy in January 1945. That fall, he approached the NAS with the idea of a series of 2–3 day conferences limited to 20–25 people. Frank Jewett, the head of the NAS, liked the idea; he envisioned a \"meeting at some quiet place where the men could live together intimately\", possibly \"at an inn somewhere\", and suggested that MacInnes focus on a couple of pilot programs. MacInnes' first choice was \"The Nature of Biopotentials\", a subject close to his own heart; the second would be \"The Postulates of Quantum Mechanics\", which later became \"Foundations of Quantum Mechanics\".\n\nKarl K. Darrow, a theoretical physicist at Bell Labs and secretary of the American Physical Society, offered his help in organizing the quantum mechanics conference. The two decided to try to emulate the success of the early Solvay Conferences, and they consulted with Léon Brillouin, who had some experience in that area. In turn, Brillouin suggested consulting Wolfgang Pauli, the recent Nobel medalist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton.\n\nIn January 1946, MacInnes, Darrow, Brillouin, and Pauli met in New York and exchanged letters. Pauli was enthusiastic about the topic, but he was primarily interested in bringing together the international physics community after the ordeal of the war. He suggested a large conference, including many older, foreign physicists, much to MacInnes' chagrin. With Jewett's encouragement, MacInnes asked Pauli for suggestions of \"younger men\" such as John Archibald Wheeler, explaining that the Rockefeller Foundation would support only a small conference. Pauli and Wheeler replied that MacInnes' conference might be merged with Niels Bohr's conference on Wave Mechanics in Denmark in 1947; they pointed out that the Niels Bohr Institute had close ties with the Rockefeller Foundation anyway. Darrow wrote to Wheeler that Bohr's conference was a poor replacement because it would draw few Americans. Finally, Shelter Island was explicitly an American conference. Darrow was chairman of the conference.\n\nWillis Lamb had found when probing hydrogen atoms with microwave beams that one of the two possible quantum states had slightly more energy than predicted by the Dirac theory; this became known as the Lamb shift. Lamb had discovered the shift a few weeks before (with Robert Retherford), so this was a major talking point at the conference. As it was known that the Dirac theory was incomplete, the small difference was an indication that quantum electrodynamics (QED) was progressing.\n\nAnother dramatic discovery was reported at the conference by Isidor Rabi; a precise measurement of the magnetic moment of the electron, though this was overshadowed by Lamb’s work.\n\nMarshak presented his two-meson hypothesis about the pi-meson, which were discovered shortly thereafter.\n\nRichard Feynman gave an informal presentation about his work on quantum electrodynamics. He gave a more formal, and less successful, presentation on QED at the Pocono Conference next year.\n\nThe participants arrived Sunday evening, 1 June 1947, and left Wednesday evening. They were:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49931371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49931371", "title": "Socratic.org", "text": "Socratic.org\n\nSocratic, or Socratic.org, is an education tech company that offers a mobile app for students. The app uses AI technology to help students with their homework by providing educational resources like videos, definitions, Q&A, and more. Socratic's stated mission is to Make Learning Easier.\n\nSocratic was first launched as a web product in 2013 by Chris Pedregal and Shreyans Bhansali, in New York City, United States. They launched their app under the same name in 2016.\n\nThe Socratic app utilizes AI (Artificial Intelligence) technology to accurately predict which concepts will help a student solve their question. Over months, millions of real student questions were analyzed and classified. Then the app uses that data to guess on future questions and provide specific education content.\n\nThe app works by letting students take a photo of a homework question. Using OCR (Optical Character Recognition), the app is able to read their photo and classify it using the technology described above. Students receive various “cards” in the app with different learning resources such as definitions, YouTube videos, Q&A, and original content and illustrations written by the Socratic.org web community.\n\nIn January 2017, Socratic added additional math features to the app, including step-by-step equation help and graphs.\n\nThere are in total 4 main groups of subjects on Socratic.org which have sub-branches included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4372958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4372958", "title": "Sylvia Sykes", "text": "Sylvia Sykes\n\nSylvia Sykes is an American swing dancer, instructor, judge, and choreographer. She is known for reviving the swing dance style balboa.\n\nSykes and her dance partner Jonathan Bixby started dancing together when she was fourteen years old. They were staff dancers for the television show \"Shebang\" during the 1960s. From 1981–1984, they studied with Dean Collins, who recommended Maxi Dorf for learning balboa. They were students of Dorf from 1984–1987.\n\nSykes has performed with Count Basie, Glenn Miller, Artie Shaw, and Les Brown. She has appeared on the television shows \"American Bandstand\" and \"Gotta Dance\".\n\nShe and Bixby represented the U.S. in the World Boogie Woogie Championships in Grenoble, France. She has been head judge for many national swing events as well as being a teacher on how to judge. Following the retirement of Bixby, Sykes taught in Santa Barbara, California, and at workshops around the world. In August 2008, she joined Nina Gilkenson and Tena Morales in founding the International Lindy Hop Championships.\n\nShe is an inductee into the National Swing Dance Hall of Fame and the California Swing Dance Hall of Fame. She is a U.S. Open champion, was the NASDE top point winner, two time California Balboa Champion, took third place in the National Carolina Shag Dance Championships, and won many Strictly Swing and Jack & Jill dance contests through the U.S. in Lindy Hop, balboa, and West Coast Swing. She was twice voted Swing Dance Teacher of the Year and is a four-time Feather Award winner as Best Female Lindy Dancer in the U.S.\n"}
{"id": "39904069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39904069", "title": "Tanzania Commission for Universities", "text": "Tanzania Commission for Universities\n\nTanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) is the statutory and regulatory organization established in 2005 by the Tanzanian Government to oversee University education in Tanzania.It is the body whose, recognition, approval and accediation is needed before any University can started.\n\n"}
{"id": "5947716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5947716", "title": "Target drone", "text": "Target drone\n\nA target drone is an unmanned aerial vehicle, generally remote controlled, usually used in the training of anti-aircraft crews.\n\nOne of the earliest drones was the British DH.82 Queen Bee, a variant of the Tiger Moth trainer aircraft operational from 1935. Its name led to the present term \"drone\".\n\nIn their simplest form, target drones often resemble radio-controlled model aircraft. More modern drones may use countermeasures, radar, and similar systems to mimic manned aircraft.\n\nMore advanced drones are made from large, older missiles which have had their warheads removed.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, obsolete Royal Air Force and Royal Navy jet and propeller-powered aircraft (such as the Fairey Firefly, Gloster Meteor and de Havilland Sea Vixen used at RAE Llanbedr between the 1950s and 1990s) have also been modified into remote controlled drones, but such modifications are costly. With a much larger budget, the U.S. military has been more likely to convert retired aircraft or older versions of still serving aircraft (e.g., QF-4 Phantom II and QF-16 Fighting Falcon) into remotely piloted targets for USAF, USN and USMC use as Full Scale Aerial Targets or FSATs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31106850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31106850", "title": "Tazti", "text": "Tazti\n\nTazti is a speech recognition software package developed and sold by Voice Tech Group, Inc. for Windows personal computers. The most recent package is version 3.0, which supports Windows 7, Windows 8 and Windows 8.1 64-bit editions. Earlier versions of Tazti supported Windows Vista and Windows XP. PC video game play by voice, controlling PC applications and programs by voice and creating speech commands to trigger a browser to open web pages, or trigger the Windows operating system to open files, folders or programs are Tazti's primary features. Earlier versions of Tazti included a lite Dictation feature that is eliminated from the latest version. \n\nTazti Speech Recognition software has four primary areas of functionality: \n\nTazti utilizes a minimal user interface. As an example, user spoken speech commands appear in a balloon on the user interface dashboard as they are spoken allowing the user to confirm by sight the speech recognition quality.\n\nVoice Tech Group, Inc. was founded in 2005 as an Ohio corporation primarily concerned with the research of semantic search and voice search. Voice Tech Group, Inc. released Tazti Speech Recognition 1.0 as their first multi-feature speech recognition product in 2005. Early features include mashing up bookmarks and favorites to speech commands, website navigation by voice including of social media sites such as Facebook and Myspace, and voice control of iTunes. Voice Tech Group, Inc partnered with SR Tech Group LLC to develop speech and voice recognition technologies in 2013.\n\nVersion 2.0.2 released in September 2010 added dictation, keyboard shortcuts that also allow custom setups for PC game play, an advanced speech API, and the ability to turn off/on groupings of speech commands. \n\nVersion 2.4 released in November 2011 improved dictation and fixed bugs.\n\nVersion 3.0 released in July 2013 eliminated some features including dictation and added features to game play by voice and control of application and programs by voice.\n\n"}
{"id": "5949946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5949946", "title": "The Review of Higher Education", "text": "The Review of Higher Education\n\nThe Review of Higher Education is an academic journal founded in 1978 and the official journal of the Association for the Study of Higher Education. The publication is aimed at scholars, educators, and policymakers and includes articles, essays, reviews, and research intended to better inform readers of the issues that affect higher education today.\n\nThe journal is published quarterly in September, December, March, and June by the Johns Hopkins University Press. Circulation is 2,058 and the average length of an issue is 104 pages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2584348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2584348", "title": "Thomas Lux", "text": "Thomas Lux\n\nThomas Lux (December 10, 1946 – February 5, 2017) was an American poet who held the Margaret T. and Henry C. Bourne, Jr. Chair in Poetry at the Georgia Institute of Technology and ran Georgia Tech's \"Poetry @ Tech\" program. He was the author of fourteen books of poetry.\n\nThomas Lux was born in Northampton, Massachusetts, son of a milkman and a Sears & Roebuck switchboard operator, neither of whom graduated from high school. Lux was raised in Massachusetts on a dairy farm.\n\nLux graduated from Emerson College in Boston, where he was also poet in residence from 1970–1975. His first book—\"Memory's Handgrenade\"—was published shortly after.\n\nLux was a member of the writing faculty at Sarah Lawrence College, where he taught for twenty-seven years, from 1975 until 2001. He was also a core faculty member of the Warren Wilson M.F.A. Program for Writers. In 1996 he was a visiting professor at University of California, Irvine. A former Guggenheim Fellow and three times a recipient of grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, Lux received, in 1995, the $50,000 Kingsley Tufts Poetry Award for his sixth collection, \"Split Horizons.\" In 2003, Lux was awarded an honorary doctorate of Letters from Emerson College. His poems were featured in many notable anthologies, including \"American Alphabets: 25 Contemporary Poets\" (2006). In 2012, Lux received the Robert Creeley Award.\n\nAt the time of his death in February 2017, Lux was the Margaret T. and Henry C. Bourne, Jr. Chair in Poetry at the Georgia Institute of Technology where he began teaching in 2001. At Georgia Tech he ran their \"Poetry at Tech\" program, which included one of the best known poetry reading series in the country, along with community outreach classes and workshops.\n\nBefore his death, Lux edited (and wrote the Introduction to) Bill Knott's posthumous publication \"I Am Flying into Myself: Selected Poems 1960–2014\" which appeared in February 2017.\n\nLux died at his home in Atlanta, Georgia on February 5, 2017. The cause of death was lung cancer. He is survived by his wife Jennifer Holley Lux and a daughter from a previous marriage, Claudia Lux.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3466360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3466360", "title": "UNESCO-CEPES", "text": "UNESCO-CEPES\n\nUNESCO-CEPES (Centre Européen pour l’Enseignement Supérieur – CEPES) was established in 1972 at Bucharest, Romania, as a de-centralized office for the European Centre for Higher Education. The Centre was closed in 2011 due to lack of funding. The centre promoted international cooperation in the sphere of higher education among UNESCO’s Member States in Central, Eastern and South-East Europe and also served Canada, the United States and Israel. \"Higher Education in Europe\", a scholarly publication focusing on major problems and trends in higher education, was the official journal of UNESCO-CEPES. \nThe CEPES headquarters was in the Kretzulescu Palace in Bucharest.\n\nOn 21 September 1972, as the only intergovernmental Centre for Higher Education in Europe region, North America and Israel, UNESCO European Centre for Higher Education (Centre Européen pour l’Enseignement Supérieur – CEPES) was established in Bucharest.\nThe early mission of the CEPES was to encourage cooperation, to disseminate information, and to research modern trends in higher education within the Europe Region. In the early 1990s, with the fall of the communist regimes in Central and Eastern Europe, the role of UNESCO-CEPES extended its round has been broader.\non this endeavour, the UNITWIN/UNESCO Chairs Programme constituted \"a major breakthrough with regard to the reinforcement of inter-university co-operation at the sub-regional, regional and interregional levels as a means to improve the quality in higher education as well as to strengthen national capabilities for higher level training and research in the developing countries.\"\n\nIn April 1997, the joint Council of Europe/UNESCO Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications Concerning Higher Education in the European Region was adopted, and UNESCO-CEPES assumed a Co-Secretariat function to the Convention.\nFrom the late 1990s, the Centre gradually more co-worked on European Union projects aimed at the reform of higher education in Eastern and Central Europe and reinforced its cooperation with international organisations such as World Bank, OECD, and others.\n\nIn September 2003, UNESCO-CEPES was nominated a consultative member of the Follow-up Group of the Bologna Process (BFUG), charged with the accomplishment of Bologna Process goals, and the actualisation of the European Higher Education Area (EHEA).\n\nOn 25 September 2009, according as a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between UNESCO and the Romanian Government on transitional arrangements for UNESCO-CEPES, The MoU realigns the Centre’s mandate with the new education landscape in Europe and provides that during the 2010-2011 period. CEPES will focus on addressing the needs of higher education of UNESCO’s Member States in Central, Eastern and South-East Europe.\n\nOn 31 December 2011, the Centre was closed as funding was not ensured by the Government of Romania or other countries in the region, which is a requirement for all UNESCO Regional Centres.\n\nThe UNESCO European Centre for Higher Education/Centre européen pour l'enseignement supérieur (CEPES) promotes co-operation and provides technical support in the field of higher education among UNESCO’s Member States in Central, Eastern and South-East Europe.\n\nSpecifically UNESCO-CEPES:\n\nIncluding UNESCO-CEPES, there are many institutes and centres on the world that UNESCO established. following lists work as part of UNESCO’s Education Programme to assist countries to tackle challenges in education.\n\n\nAfrica\n\n\nEurope and North America \n\n\nLatin America and Caribbean \n\n\nCentres under the auspices of UNESCO\n\nThe five centres under the auspices of UNESCO (category 2) complement and expand UNESCO’s education programme.\n\n\nNew centres and institutes to be established\n\n\nPartner International Governmental and Non-governmental Organizations Operating in the Field of (Higher) Education Reform and Policy Development\n\n\nSupport Organizations of UNESCO – CEPES Activities\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "343206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343206", "title": "University of Zimbabwe", "text": "University of Zimbabwe\n\nThe University of Zimbabwe (UZ) in Harare, is the oldest and top ranked university in Zimbabwe. It was founded through a special relationship with the University of London and it opened its doors to its first students in 1952. The university has nine faculties and 1 College ( Faculties of Agriculture, Arts, Commerce, Education, Engineering, Law, Science, Social Studies, Veterinary Sciences and the College of Health Sciences) offering a wide variety of degree programmes and many specialist research centres and institutes. The university is accredited through the National Council for Higher Education, under the Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education. English is the language of instruction. Although once a very successful university, UZ has been facing challenges since 2008 and now the University is on a rebounding drive. Major work is being done to uplift the status of the University. Refurbishments are being carried out on the Main campus and many facilities are being upgraded to make the university an International Academic Brand. The university has faced criticism for awarding fraudulent degrees to members of the Mugabe regime particularly the obscure PhD given to Grace Mugabe.\n\nIn 1945, Manfred Hodson (after whom a residence is now named) formed the \"Rhodesia University Association\", inspired by the promise of £20,000 by Robert Jeffrey Freeman for establishing such a university.\n\nConstruction began on the Mount Pleasant site, funded by grants from the British and Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland Governments, Anglo American Corporation, the British South Africa Company, the Rhodesia Selection Trust, the Beit Trust, the Ford Foundation and the Dulverton Trust and in July 1953 Elizabeth, the Queen Mother laid the foundation stone. In 1955 the British government formally adopted the institution, establishing the University College of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (UCRN) by Royal Charter. The college was admitted to the privilege of Special Relation with the University of London the following year and in 1957 all activities were transferred to the Mount Pleasant campus. The following year the college was granted pieces of land upon which the college farm and the Lake Kariba Research Station were constructed. In 1963 the Medical School opened and was affiliated to the University of Birmingham. After the dissolution of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, the University College continued as an independent institution of higher education and research, open to all races. In 1970 a phased termination of the associations with the Universities of London and Birmingham began.\n\nFollowing Zimbabwe's independence after the Rhodesian Bush War, the university was renamed University of Zimbabwe in 1980. In 1981, the first black Principal, Walter Kamba, was appointed and in 1982 the Royal Charter was replaced by an Act of Parliament. Student numbers rose from 1,000 in 1980 to 2,000 by 1985.\n\nThe University of Zimbabwe Act was controversially amended in 1990, giving the government more powers and, according to many faculty, students and observers, attacking academic freedom. The late 1980s and most of the 1990s saw a rise in student protest, resulting in several closures and mass expulsions. Despite the ongoing tensions, the university continued to grow and the student population had reached 8,000 by 1995 and 10,139 by 2001. As the 2000s began, the university struggled to meet lecturers' and professors' expectations on salary levels, leading to numerous strikes. Many donors, including the Government of Sweden, which had previously been a major financer of UZ, cut or cancelled their aid. As the economic crisis grew in Zimbabwe, UZ began to fail to recruit lecturers and professors to fill vacancies. By 2007, the shortage of staff was preventing the teaching and examination of some programmes. Problems with water and electricity supply, as well as maintenance of infrastructure became critical by the late 2000s. The decline of UZ culminated in the university's failure to re-open for the 2008–2009 academic year. The University briefly opened in early 2009, but no classes were held due to strike action by lecturers. The institution was closed again in late February, following demonstrations by students against new, hard currency fees.\n\nThe university has faced criticism for awarding fraudulent degrees to members of the Mugabe regime; in 2014, Grace Mugabe was given a doctorate in sociology, only two months after being registered on the programme, and although a dissertion does not exist in the university archives. Also other senior members of the Mugabe regime were given doctorates, without writing dissertations. On 20 November 2017, the university of Zimbabwe students boycotted writing exams citing that the former first lady Dr Grace Mugabe's controversial PhD should be revoked. They also protested and declared that they would not write examinations until Robert Mugabe resigned. Inevitably, the 93 year old leader and then chancellor of the University resigned the following afternoon on 21 November 2017 as head of state and government. Many claimed that the University of Zimbabwe's students will go down in history as those who gave the Mugabe regime the 'final push' of his 37 year reigned as Zimbabwe's leader.\n\nThe basic format of undergraduate learning at UZ is lectures, by professors or lecturers and tutorials by lecturers of teaching assistants. Many programmes also have laboratory-based practical work and field schools. Tests and assignments on course content are graded for a theory coursework grade. Practical work, where applicable, is graded for a practical coursework grade. Theory, and in some cases practical, examinations are administered.\n\nThe degree programmes follow the Course Unit model, and in many programmes it is possible for students to select some of the courses from a range of options. Honours degrees have a compulsory project course that the students must complete individually, with different projects carried out by each student.\n\nThe undergraduate programmes offered lead to Bachelor, Bachelor (Honours) and Intercalated bachelor's degrees. Registered bachelor's degree programmes are in arts, business studies and computer science, tourism and hospitality management, education, adult education, science education, nursing science, science, social work, dental surgery, medicine and surgery and veterinary science. Registered undergraduate Bachelor (Honours) programmes are in agriculture, agricultural engineering, applied environmental science, arts, accountancy, business studies, law, engineering, mining engineering, surveying, medical laboratory sciences, nursing science, pharmacy, occupational therapy, physiotherapy, science, economics, politics and administration, psychology, rural and urban planning, and sociology. Registered intercalated programmes are in anatomy, human physiology, veterinary anatomy, veterinary physiology and veterinary biochemistry.\n\nThe University of Zimbabwe offers postgraduate honours degrees, two types of master's degree and doctoral degrees. Postgraduate honours programmes, also known as \"special honours\" programmes last are for one-year duration and incorporate coursework, examinations and a compulsory project module. Master's degrees by coursework and project are designated M.A. or M.Sc. and are of one to two years duration. They incorporate coursework and project modules. Master's degrees by research thesis only are designated M.Phil. and require a minimum of two years study. The doctoral programme, D.Phil., is by research thesis only. Students who are carrying out an M.Phil. study, but have not yet submitted their thesis, may apply to their faculty to upgrade their study to the D.Phil. programme.\n\nDue to the heavy staff vacancies that UZ began suffering from in the 2000s, many programmes and specialisations have been suspended.\n\nAlthough UZ has not generally featured in major international rankings such as the Times Higher Education Supplement QS World University Rankings or the Academic Ranking of World Universities, the World Universities Ranking placed the university number 14 in Africa in 2007, after various South African universities, the American University in Cairo and the University of Dar-es-Salaam, and number 3,549 out of 9,760 accredited universities in the world. By 2008, UZ had slid to number 17 in Africa and number 4,001 globally. In 2010, according to University Ranking by Academic Performance (URAP), University of Zimbabwe is the best university in Zimbabwe and 1340th university in the world.\n\nThe main campus of the University of Zimbabwe is located in the Mount Pleasant suburb in northern Harare. It forms the main portion of the block of land reserved for educational purposes between Mount Pleasant Drive, Upper East Road, Churchill Avenue and Teviotdale Road. Other facilities within this area include the Zimbabwe Schools Examination Council, the Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture Audio-Visual Centre and Mount Pleasant School. In addition to the academic buildings, the main campus is host to sporting facilities, all but two student residences and much of the staff housing. The College Green, located centrally to the academic buildings, is a popular site for social events. About one third of the campus is a seasonal wetland, unsuitable for construction and thus unused.\n\nThe major satellite campus is the Medical School campus at Parirenyatwa Hospital in central Harare. It houses the College of Health Sciences. Additional university properties within Harare include blocks of flats for staff and student housing in Avondale, the Avenues and Mount Pleasant.\n\nThe university also owns a farm in Teviotdale, Mazowe District, north of Harare and the University of Zimbabwe Lake Kariba Research Station in the Nyamhunga suburb of Kariba. Several of Zimbabwe's universities started as colleges and satellite campuses of UZ, including Bindura University of Science Education and Chinhoyi University of Technology.\n\nThe titular head of the university is the Chancellor, who is the President of Zimbabwe. The university is governed by a University Council, comprising the university's chief officers, representatives of the Senate, staff and students, nominees of the Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education and representatives form various sectors of commerce and civil society. The chief executive of the university is the Vice-Chancellor, who is appointed by the Chancellor after consultation with the Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education and the University Council. The Vice-Chancellor is assisted by one or more Pro–Vice-Chancellors, appointed by the University Council with the approval of the Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education.\n\nThe academic authority of the university is vested in the Senate, comprising the university's chief officers, the deans of faculties, all full professors, the chairmen of departments and staff and student representatives. The university is divided into faculties, managed by an executive dean and governed by a Faculty Board comprising all professors and lecturers.\n\nThere are ten academic faculties:\n\nThe university currently has one college, the College of Health Sciences which incorporates the Faculty of Medicine. However, many of Zimbabwe's public universities started as colleges of the University of Zimbabwe:\n\nThe university has two trans-disciplinary research institutes: the Institute of Development Studies (IDS) and the Institute of Environmental Studies (IES).\n\nThere are numerous education institutions affiliated to the University of Zimbabwe, including teacher training colleges and the School of Social Work.\n\nThe academic year runs from August to June, with graduation normally in September. As from February 2016, the University introduced a second intake,with an academic year that runs from February to December.\n\nOn the main campus there are five residences for women: Swinton Hall, Complexes 1, 4 and 5 and Carr-Saunders, and four residences for men: Manfred Hodson Hall, Complex 2, Complex 3 and Manfred Hodson Annex (formerly New Hall). There is also the Medical Residence at the Medical School campus and Mount Royal Residence in the Avenues, in central Harare. The residences were closed in June 2007, with the university authorities citing maintenance and sanitation problems but were reopened in 2014.\n\nThe university has a target of at least one current or former UZ student representing the country in a medal winning sports team in international competitions annually. Sport at UZ is centred around the Sports Pavilion, which was donated by National Breweries. Sports offered at the university include athletics, basketball, cricket, football, hockey, rugby and tennis. UZ has frequently won the Zimbabwe Universities Sports Association Games. In its early years, men's hockey was the premier sport, with a team in Salisbury's \"First League\" in 1960 The University of Zimbabwe Football Club plays in Zimbabwe's Division two and is the former home of Manchester City striker and Zimbabwe national football team captain, Benjani Mwaruwari. The club was for a time coached by former President Canaan Banana. When Zimbabwe hosted the All-Africa Games in 1995, UZ was the games village. Maintenance of sporting facilities is the responsibility of the Director: Sport, but in recent years accessing funds from the State Procurement Board has been a challenge. Other popular and successful sporting disciplines at UZ are Basketball, Vollyeball, Rugby and Handball whom are all playing in the Harare professional leagues. In October 2015, the Sports Department organised a Handball festival in celebration of the University's 6oth anniversary and this festival has become an annual event ever since and the biggest handball festival in the country.\n\nIn most departments there are subject–related clubs or societies, for example the Kirk Biological Society and the AIESEC and Students Institution for Success Club. In 2005, UZ won the Students in Free Enterprise World Cup held in Ontario, Canada. There are also non–academic clubs such as Rotaract\n\nThe gender gap in enrollment at UZ, like at African universities, became a concern by the mid-1990s and in 1995 an affirmative action programme was built into the university's policy. However, many female students feel inhibited from taking male-dominated courses or taking part in student politics. Women are intimidated by gender–related violence and sexual exploitation.\n\nThe first chief executive of the university was William Rollo, who served as interim principal from 1953 to 1955. The first substantive Principal was Sir Walter Adams who served from 1955 to 1966 and was later Director of the London School of Economics. Sir Walter was succeeded by Professor Terence Miller, who lasted a mere two years as his political views brought him into conflict with the government. His successor, Robert Craig, later Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, served from 1969 to 1980. Professor Leonard J Lewis served as Principal for the transition to Zimbabwe's independence, despite his somewhat controversial views on African education and politics. He was succeeded in 1981 by Professor Walter G Kamba, who became Vice–Chancellor when that post was created to replace that of Principal. Like Prof Miller, Prof Kamba came into conflict with the government and he resigned in a controversial speech at the 1992 graduation ceremony, citing government interference and threats to academic freedom. He was succeeded by Professor Gordon L Chavunduka (1992–1996), who was followed by Professor FW Graham Hill (1997–2002). The incumbent Vice–Chancellor, Professor Levi M Nyagura has served since 2003.\n\n"}
