{"id": "2835399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2835399", "title": "Adoption in the United States", "text": "Adoption in the United States\n\nIn the United States, adoption is permanently placing a person under the age of 18 with a parent or parents other than the birth parents.\n\nAdoptions in the United States may be either domestic or from another country. Domestic adoptions can be arranged either through a state agency, an adoption agency, or independently. \n\nAdoption agencies must be licensed by the state in which they operate. The U.S. government maintains a website, Child Welfare Information Gateway, which lists each state's licensed agencies. There are both private and public adoption agencies. Private adoption agencies often focus on infant adoptions, while public adoption agencies typically help find homes for waiting children, many of them presently in foster care and in need of a permanent loving home. To assist in the adoption of waiting children, there is a U.S. government-affiliated website, AdoptUSKids.org, assisting in sharing information about these children with potential adoptive parents. The North American Council on Adoptable Children provides information on financial assistance to adoptive parents (called adoption subsidies) when adopting a child with special needs. \n\nIndependent adoptions are usually arranged by attorneys and typically involve newborn children. Approximately 55% of all U.S. newborn adoptions are completed via independent adoption.\n\nThe 2000 census was the first census in which adoption statistics were collected. The estimated number of children adopted in the year 2000 was slightly over 128,000, bringing the total U.S. population of adopted children to 2,058,915. In 2008 the number of children adopted increased to nearly 136,000.\n\nThe United States foster care system enables adults to care for minor children who are not able to live with their biological parents. In fiscal year 2000, 150,703 foster children were adopted in the United States, many by their foster parents or relatives of their biological parents. The enactment of the Adoption and Safe Families Act in 1997 has approximately doubled the number of children adopted from foster care in the United States.\nIf a child in the U.S. governmental foster care system is not adopted or returned to the custody of their birth parents by the age of 18 years, they are aged out of the system on their 18th birthday. To help encourage the adoption of children presently in foster care, adoption exchanges were created, so the county adoption agencies around the country could have central data base to help waiting children find homes. This allows prospective adoptive parents to not only see children waiting for adoption in their own region, but throughout the nation. The central adoption exchange is adoptuskids.org, created through a grant of the Children's Bureau, U.S. Office of Administration of Children and Families.\n\nAdoption is changing the way people form families, as well as affecting the way society perceives the fundamental concepts of life such as nature and nurture and the role of biological relations with an adoptive family member. Because of changes in adoption over the last few decades – changes that include open adoption, gay adoption, international adoptions and trans-racial (racial transformation) adoptions, and a focus on moving children out of the foster care system into adoptive families – the impact of adoption on the basic unit of society and the family, has been enormous.\n\nAdoption is often thought of as a beautiful process. The transfer of parental rights grants birth parents a second chance at fulfilling life goals while placing their child into the arms of someone who not only longs for a precious infant but is prepared for raising them. The adoptee also grows up knowing that they have parents who chose them and birth parents who loved them enough to choose life and also place them for adoption so that they could have a chance at a better life. The adoption triad or the relationship between the birth parents, adoptive parents, and the adoptee seemingly all benefit from adoption. Evidently all outcomes of adoption seem wonderful, however, a closer look reveals adoption is the cause of many lifelong issues for the birth parents, the adoptive parents, and the adoptee. \nAdoption research scholars have reported seven core issues to consistently be associated with the unnatural processes of adoption. Problems with loss, grief, rejection, guilt and shame, identity, intimacy, and control uniquely affect each member of the adoption triad. It is important to be mindful of the realities of adoptions as they permanently impact those involved. \n\nThe adoption of children of one race by parents of another race, which began officially in the United States in 1948, has always generated controversy. The argument often comes down to opposing views as to who gets to decide what is the \"best interest\" of children. Critics of transracial adoption question whether white American parents can effectively prepare children of color to deal with racism. Others wonder where the children raised by white parents will find social acceptance as adults. Testimony from many transracially adopted adults who grew up in white families illustrates the \"in-between\" status many adoptees feel, not belonging to or feeling comfortable in communities of color or among white society. Another source of controversy is the history of the widespread removal of children from families and communities of color, which has been shown by historians to have been a tool to regulate families and oppress communities, dating back to slavery times and during the now-discredited Indian Boarding School movement of the early twentieth century. Given this history of child removal, the National Association of Black Social Workers (NABSW) condemned transracial adoptions in 1972 in their historic Position Statement. In that paper, the NABSW equated the removal of African American children from their families of origin—and their placement in white homes—with \"cultural genocide.\"\n\nPro-transracial adoption advocates argue that there are more white families seeking to adopt than there are minority families; conversely, there are more minority children available for adoption. For example, in 2009, 41% of children available for adoption were African American, 40% were white children, and 15% were Hispanic children. This disparity often results in a lower cost to adopt children from ethnic minorities - usually through special adoption grants rather than fee discrimination. Many critics decry the exchange of money for children, whether as \"fees for service\" or otherwise, arguing that no children of any race should ever be for sale. Proponents point out practicality in the current systems. This situation is morally difficult because the adoptive families see adoption as a great benefit to trans-racially adopted children, while some minorities see it as an assault on their culture. In 2004, 26 percent of African-American children adopted from foster care were adopted trans-racially. Government agencies have varied over time in their willingness to facilitate trans-racial adoptions. \"Since 1994, white prospective parents have filed, and largely won, more than two dozen discrimination lawsuits, according to state and federal court records.\" There is also a great need to place these children; in 2004 more than 45,000 African-American children were waiting to be adopted from foster care.\n\nAmericans have adopted more than 200,000 children from overseas in the past 15 years, half of whom come from Asia. This trend has helped lower the resistance to trans-racial adoptions in the United States, at least for Asian and Hispanic children, although there is still high demand for Caucasian children, who usually come from Eastern Europe.\n\nAs the children adopted in the early days of the transracial adoption experiment have reached middle age, a growing chorus of voices from adult transracial adoptees has emerged. Their collective experience can be found in films, scholarly articles, memoirs, blogs, and numerous books on the subject.\n\nNo sooner were US adoptions made secretive with original birth records sealed, than those adopted began to seek reform. Jean Paton, author of Breaking Silence and founder of Orphan Voyage in 1954, is regarded as the mother of adoption reform and reunification efforts. Jean Paton mentored adoptee Judith Land, \"Adoption Detective: Memoir of an Adopted Child\" during her adoption search. Florence Fisher organized The ALMA Society (Adoptees Liberation Movement Association) in 1972, Emma May Vilardi created International Soundex Reunion Registry (ISRR) in 1975, Lee Campbell and other birthmothers joined the fight for Open Records forming Concerned United Birthparents (CUB) in 1976, and by the spring of 1979 representatives of 32 organizations from 33 states, Canada and Mexico gathered together in DC to establish the American Adoption Congress (AAC). The Triadoption Library began keeping records in 1978 showing 52 search/support/reform organizations, by 1985 there were over 550 worldwide.\n\nAdoption Reform encompasses family preservation, adoptees' access to original birth certificates, birth and adoptive families having direct access to each other (open adoption) and all related records (open records).\n\n\"The Adoption Triangle\" by Annette Baran, Reuben Pannor and Arthur Sorosky; \"Twice Born\" and \"Lost and Found\" by Betty Jean Lifton; \"I Would Have Searched Forever\" by Sandra Musser; \"The Adoption Searchbook: Techniques for Tracing People\" by Mary Jo Rillera; \"The Politics of Adoption\" by Mary Kathleen Benet; \"Dear Birthmother\" by Kathleen Silber and Phylis Speedlin; all published in the 1970s and still in print, were instrumental in examining and defining the foundation of reform.\n\nAs of July 2014, 28 U.S. states and the District of Columbia have legal provisions for enforceable open adoption contact agreements, and an additional six states have provisions for enforceable agreements with some limitations. Each year additional states consider law changes that give persons separated by adoption access to information about themselves and each other. As of 2013, over 85% of adoptions in the US are either semi- or completely open.\n\nAdoption costs can range from almost nothing for foster care adoptions to over $50,000 for international adoptions, in 2015 U.S average adoption costs is $37,000. High costs negatively impact the demand for adoption, as fewer prospective adoptive families can afford to adopt, but the number of children that need adopted stays the same or increases. As a result, prospective adopters may seek less cost prohibitive alternatives to adoption like fertility treatments or privately arranged adoptions. \n\nThe cost of adoption varies widely based on the method of adoption. Almost all the different forms of adoptions have costs related to home study, documentation, adoption agency fees, consultant fees, attorney fees, travel expenses, birth family expenses, foster care costs, early childhood medical costs, and relocation costs.\n\nPublic foster care adoptions frequently incur zero costs, though the U.S. average is $2,622 according to a 2015 survey done by Adoptive Families Magazine. Independently-arranged adoptions, orchestrated by a private attorney, can vary greatly in costs. The arrangements are generally setup between prospective adopters and an expecting mother. While some independent adoption arrangements may stay low cost due to nature of the agreement, costs still average $31,890. Independent-arranged adoptions can defer costs by staying in-state, sharing prenatal and child birth medical costs with the birth parents, finding a birth parent by word-of-mouth or by offer to avoid \"shopping\" for an adoption-willing parent. Private adoption agencies are the most expensive option, with an average cost of $42,337. Out-of-state adoptions can drastically increase adoption costs due to complex legal challenges and travels costs. Costs vary between states due to differing regulations and fees that can cause additional expenses. Medical costs were also frequently cited as an unexpected expense for both the birth mothers and the children. \"False starts,\" when a mother decides not to give up their baby after it is born, can cost up to $2,500 each time.\n\nInternational adoptions can vary in cost, depending on the country, and average between $30,000 and $50,000 dollar. In some countries, costs can be equivalent to domestic adoption. According to Adoptive Families Magazine, Ethiopia to U.S. adoptions in 2015 averaged $30,633, while South Korea to U.S. adoptions averaged $40,000 to $50,000. Disparities in country's adoption costs can be attributed by the differences in their regulation and requirements. Both Ethiopia and South Korea require two trips by prospective adopters, which increases overall costs. South Korea's advanced pre-adoption care and medical system costs can also increase costs passed down to adoptive parents. Due to the potential of challenging political and cultural climates of adoption origin countries, undisclosed costs such as \"required donations,\" facilitating or origin country agency fees, and other extrajudicial pay-offs to the children's guardians or origin country.\n\nThe physical characteristics of children being considered for adoption; such as race, age, and physical or developmental disability; can cause a 74% variation in adoption costs. Adopting parents may have a desire for specific characteristics in their adoptive child, for which they are willing to pay extra costs to obtain. In international adoptions, children with brown skin color cost $8,200 less to adopt, and dark skin color $14,700 less to adopt, compared to Caucasian children. In domestic adoptions, adoptions cost $600 less per every additional year of age. Additionally, African American children cost $4,400 less than their Caucasian counterparts to adopt. Children with physical disabilities cost $4,000 less.\n\nAdopters can claim most expenses through the adoption tax credit. For foster system adoptions, the adoption tax credit may cover the entire cost of adoption. Foster children may also qualify for monthly government stipends, Medicaid health insurance, and even college tuition.\n\nMany adopted children who were separated from their birth parents by adoption have a desire to reunite, and most would like family medical history information and access to any documents where they are mentioned. Often, birth parents who placed their infants want to reunite as well. In states which practice or have practiced confidential adoption, this has led to the creation of adoption reunion registries, and efforts to establish the right of adoptees to access their sealed records (for example, the American Adoption Congress, Concerned United Birthparents, and Bastard Nation). Others join search and support groups, most of which are non-profit, or some hire investigative companies to locate birth families and adopted children.\n\nProspective American adoptive parents may use international adoption (also called intercountry adoption) to adopt a child from another country. American citizens, including American citizens who have emigrated from countries they wish to adopt from, represent the majority of international adoptive parents, followed by Europeans and those from other developed nations such as Australia. The laws of different countries vary in their willingness to allow international adoptions. Some countries, such as China, Korea and Vietnam, have very well established rules and procedures for foreign adopters to follow, while others, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for example, expressly forbid it. International adoptions by Americans became much more common after the Korean War when American servicemen fathered interracial children with Korean women. China is the leading country for international adoptions by Americans.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State has designated two accrediting entities for organizations providing inter-country adoption services in the United States that work with sending countries that have ratified the Hague Adoption Convention, which specifies by international treaty requirements for adoption between countries that have ratified the treaty. They are the Council on Accreditation and the Colorado Department of Health and Human Services. The U.S. Department of State maintains a list of all accredited international adoption providers.\n\nSource: U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs\n\nThere are also individuals who act on their own and attempt to match waiting children, both domestically and abroad, with prospective parents, and in foreign countries provide additional services such as translation and local transport. They are commonly referred to as facilitators. Since in many jurisdictions their legal status is uncertain (and in some U.S. states they are banned outright), they operate in a legal gray area.\n\nWhere the law does not specifically allow them to, all they can do is make an introduction, leaving the details of the placement to those legally qualified to do so. But in practice, their role as gatekeepers can give them a great deal of power to direct a particular child to a particular client, or not, and some have been accused of using this power to defraud prospective adoptive parents.\n\nThe Preventing Sex Trafficking and Strengthening Families Act (H.R. 4980; 113th Congress) passed the United States House of Representatives on July 23, 2014. It is a bill that would address federal adoption incentives and would amend the Social Security Act (SSA) to require the state plan for foster care and adoption assistance to demonstrate that the state agency has developed policies and procedures for identifying, documenting in agency records, and determining appropriate services with respect to, any child or youth over whom the state agency has responsibility for placement, care, or supervision who the state has reasonable cause to believe is, or is at risk of being, a victim of sex trafficking or a severe form of trafficking in persons. The bill H.R. 4980 passed the Senate on September 9, 2014, and President Obama signed it into law on September 29.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40734201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40734201", "title": "Anaqua (company)", "text": "Anaqua (company)\n\nAnaqua is a Boston, MA based provider of intellectual asset management (IAM) and SaaS software and services. Anaqua’s Enterprise IAM solution supports the full IA lifecycle from idea to monetization for all IA categories, including inventions, patents, trade secrets, brands and trademarks. Anaqua Express is designed for smaller IP teams. Anaqua Element is a quick start, cloud-based solution for IP professionals managing small portfolios. Anaqua Essential helps law firms manage intellectual assets on behalf of clients.\n\nAnaqua was formed in 2004 and bought by Beacon Equity Partners in 2005.\nIn 2006, Anaqua received $4 million from Northstar Global Partners, which they used to relocate headquarters from London to Boston and hire more staff. In 2010 Anaqua merged with SGA2, an ISO 9000-certified supplier of global patent annuity and trademark renewal services. In 2013, Beacon Equity Partners sold Anaqua to Insight Venture Partners.\n\nPriya Iyer joined Anaqua as the chief operating officer in 2005 and was promoted to CEO in 2007. Bob Romeo took over as CEO in August 2015.\n\nAnaqua merged with Lecorpio, LLC, announced on July 25, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "3905457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3905457", "title": "Bill Sutch", "text": "Bill Sutch\n\nWilliam Ball Sutch (27 June 1907 – 28 September 1975) was a New Zealand economist, historian, writer, public servant, public intellectual. He was suspected of being a Soviet spy and in 1974, he was charged with trying to pass New Zealand Government information to the Soviet Union. He was acquitted, an outcome that was the subject of much debate since then. Although, there were subsequent disclosures from the KGB which indicated that he may have been a spy, no definitive proof that he was has ever been uncovered. \n\nSutch was born in Southport, England in 1907, but his family moved to New Zealand when he was only eight months old. His father, Ebenezer (Ted) Sutch, was a journeyman carpenter, and his mother, Ellen Sutch (née Ball), a dressmaker. He grew up in the Methodist faith, which was to have a strong influence on him throughout his life.\n\nHe went to Wellington College, then the Wellington College of Education and Victoria University College (later Victoria University of Wellington) where he gained a MA and B.Com. His field of interest at University, particularly, was in the English Poor Law, and it is this work that led to a fellowship being offered to Columbia University, the offer effectively a prize for his work up till then. Before taking this up he had taught at Nelson College (he did much of his degrees part-time, while teaching) and Wanganui Technical College. At Columbia he was awarded a PhD in Economics in 1932 on \"Price fixing in New Zealand. After some travel he then returned to New Zealand which was experiencing the Great Depression. The Depression, and his families position also, deeply affected his personal philosophy.\n\nIn April 1933, Sutch was one of four people that included Morva Williams, his future wife, who were reported missing in the Tararua Range during an attempt to be the first people to follow a particular route during the winter season. Despite plans to complete the trip within two days, they were held up when two of the members suffered a fall and subsequent injuries, and were then forced to travel very slowly through some of the most persistently bad weather experienced in the range until that time, before finally making their way out more than two weeks later. Once noticed to be missing, the resulting search became the largest search and rescue operation within New Zealand up until that time, involving roughly 200 people.\n\nPolitically, Sutch was generally on the left, although his wide network of friends included people of all political persuasions, and perhaps the person he most admired was the centre-right politician Gordon Coates. He was involved in a number of left-leaning organisations and associations, and helped edit and publish literature connected with them. In 1939, he assisted the publication of Psycho-pathology in politics, written by Labour Party dissident John A. Lee which was an attack on the party's leader, Michael Joseph Savage. Sutch wrote numerous books. Among the first were: \"Poverty and Progress in New Zealand\" (1941, 1969), which echoed the work \"Progress and Poverty\", by the Californian Henry George (1879), known as the \"single [land] taxer\"; and \"The Quest for Security in New Zealand\" (1942, 1966)., which to Sutch was a related topic.\n\nIn 1933, following some teaching in Palmerston North Boys' High School, Sutch took up a position in the office of Gordon Coates, who was Minister of Finance. When the government changed, he continued on in the office of Coates's successor, Walter Nash of the First Labour Government. He had considerable input into economic policy at the time. Eventually, Sutch's political activities were deemed incompatible with his official role, and he was transferred out of the economic sphere. He left the civil service to join the army, becoming an instructor. He returned to the Ministry of Supply arranging equipment and finance.\n\nAt the end of the war, he took up a position with the new United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA), working in Sydney and then in London, covering war-devastated Europe. As a result of this work, he was selected to head the New Zealand delegation to the United Nations, where he held positions with the Economic and Social Commission and UNICEF. He played a crucial role in a UN decision to continue with UNICEF, despite a United States desire to close it down. Ben Alpers has said that some of the credit for UNICEF's Nobel Prize for Peace should go to Sutch and New Zealand.. Soviet documents claim he was recruited as a spy in 1950.\n\nUpon returning to New Zealand in 1951, Sutch worked for the Department of Industries and Commerce, eventually in 1958 rising to be its Secretary. There he promoted the development of the New Zealand economy using the policy instruments of the day, including price controls, subsidies and import controls. He concluded that pastoral exports by themselves would not generate enough foreign exchange to maintain full employment, and would continue to make the economy highly vulnerable to fluctuations in international conditions. So he sought import substitution, the further processing of agricultural production for export, and the exporting of non-pastoral agricultural exports, manufacturing and services (such as tourism). As such he foresaw, championed and laid the foundations of the great export diversifications of the 1970s.\n\nSutch's promotion of industrialisation was anathema to much of the farming community, though many in the business community supported him. In March 1965 he was forced to retire after 40 years of public service employment and at the age of 57 he became a consultant. Among his many further publications were the books, \"Colony or Nation?\", \"The Responsible Society in New Zealand\", \"Takeover New Zealand\", and \"Women with a Cause\". His festschrift, \"Spirit of an Age\", was published in 1975. Sutch became active in the arts and architectural communities, including the Wellington Architectural Centre. He was an early and active promoter of New Zealand design, asserting that quality design was central to economic and social development. He helped to set up the Wellington Architectural Centre, provided the intellectual framework that led to the formation of the New Zealand Industrial Design Council and chaired the Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council (now Creative New Zealand).\n\nSutch's writing provides one of the most comprehensive accounts of, and visions for, New Zealand. While his views were often original and independent, many that were rejected at the time are now accepted. He was a nation-builder who wanted to see an economically strong and socially fair New Zealand, free from colonial ties, whether economic or political. He was a committed nationalist, and on many matters ahead of his times.\n\nEconomist Brian Easton has argued that: \"The events surrounding the trial overshadowed the significance of what went before, and have muted subsequent recognition of his intellectual contributions.\" The trial also overshadowed his role in the establishment of UNICEF. Sutch's daughter, Helen Sutch, said after the declassification of New Zealand SIS documents in 2008 said: \"Our family hopes that justice can now be done to that historic legacy, which has been overshadowed for so long by events in the last year of his life\".\n\nIn September 1974, Sutch was arrested and charged under the Official Secrets Act 1951 following a series of clandestine meetings with KGB agent Dimitri Rasgovorov, an official of the Soviet Union's embassy in Wellington. Sutch was the only New Zealander ever to stand trial under the espionage provisions of the Official Secrets Act, based on the British Act of 1951 and repealed in 1983.\n\nThe SIS aimed to catch Sutch passing on information during a meeting at night in a public park, but did not detain Sutch until after Rasgovorov had left. They assumed Sutch would co-operate once caught red handed. When he did not, they could not provide specific details of what information Sutch had passed to the Soviet diplomat (hence the curious charge that he faced, under the Official Secrets Act, of passing unspecified information to the Soviet Union). Sutch claimed his meetings with Soviet officials were after the Russian ostensibly approached him in his capacity as a stalwart of the NZ Friends of Israel, for information about who were the Zionists in New Zealand, and to discuss China.\n\nAt trial the Security Intelligence Service (SIS) claimed that the retired Sutch had obtained official government information to give to the Soviets but was unable to provide details of what information. Following a high-profile trial, a jury acquitted Sutch of the charges in February 1975.\n\nSutch began to suffer ill health at about the same time as he was arrested and died from liver cancer six months after the trial on 28 September 1975 at Wellington, shortly after holding his just-born first grandson, Piers.\n\nDebate over his guilt or innocence continued long after his death. A book published in 2006 by C.H (Kit) Bennetts, the SIS officer who had first observed Sutch, reasserted the claim that he was guilty. In an editorial, the \"New Zealand Herald\" applauded the publication of the book, and said \"Bennetts' unauthorised account has done the SIS a service\".\n\nOn 9 May 2008, most of the SIS file on the Sutch and the trial were declassified. The files contained no new material information. On the other hand a Top Secret 1976 report by chief ombudsman Sir Guy Powles found that SIS actions had been unlawful when they burgled and bugged his office.\n\nIn August 2014, Cambridge university released details from the KGB files from the Wellington Embassy that they held in archives that had been provided by Soviet defector Vasili Mitrokhin in 1992 . According to Phil Kitchen of \"The Dominion Post\", \"The documents don't name Sutch but the details clearly identify him and state he was recruited [by the KGB] in 1950.\" If the person was indeed Sutch, he was recruited while representing New Zealand at the United Nations, and continued contact with the KGB for 24 years, including 15 years when he was employed in high Government office. Sutch's daughter did not accept the evidence, stating: \"It is well known that KGB agents in general were desperate to talk up any contacts they had because they were under pressure from their superiors\".\n\nOn 12 January 1934 at Wellington, Bill Sutch married Morva Milburn Williams, a schoolteacher. There were no children of the marriage. His marriage to Morva was dissolved on 2 February 1944, and he married Shirley Hilda Stanley Smith (1916–2008), a lecturer and later a lawyer, in Auckland on 2 June that year. They had one daughter, Helen, who was economic adviser to Prime Minister David Lange and rose to a prominent position with the World Bank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24216819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24216819", "title": "Blasphemy law in Malaysia", "text": "Blasphemy law in Malaysia\n\nMalaysia curbs blasphemy and any insult to religion or to the religious by rigorous control of what people in that country can say or do. Government-funded schools teach young Muslims the principles of Sunni Islam, and instruct young non-Muslims on morals. The government informs the citizenry on proper behavior and attitudes, and ensures that Muslim civil servants take courses in Sunni Islam. The government ensures that the broadcasting and publishing media do not create disharmony or disobedience. If someone blasphemes or otherwise engages in deviant behavior, Malaysia punishes such transgression with Sharia or through legislation such as the Penal Code.\n\nArticles 295-298A of the Malaysian Penal Code provide penalties for those who commit offenses against religion. The penalties range from up to three years in prison or a fine of up to US$1,000 (approximately).\nProsecutions for blasphemy usually target those who offend Islam, but an insult to any religion can give rise to prosecution.\n\nThe Malaysian Federation's judicial system is based upon English law.\nThe system has two types of courts. Secular courts deal with civil and criminal law. Sharia courts deal with matters that involve Islamic law: marriage, inheritance, apostasy, religious conversion, and custody among others. Malaysia's judicial system has a Federal Court, a Court of Appeal, High Courts (secular and Sharia in some states), Sessions Courts, Magistrate's Courts, and Juvenile Courts. The Federal Court reviews decisions referred from the Court of Appeal, and the Federal Court has original jurisdiction in constitutional matters and in disputes between states or between the federal government and a state.\n\nIn May 2007, the Federal Court ruled that Muslims are not entitled to freedom of worship, even though such freedom is guaranteed by Malaysia's Constitution. By a two-to-one decision, the Court held that the secular courts have no jurisdiction over any Islamic matter even if non-Muslims are involved. In July 2007, the Federal Court ruled that a Sharia court has jurisdiction over any matter that involves non-Muslims only if a state legislature gives the Sharia court such jurisdiction. The Federal Court's decisions have for context the Constitution's Article 121(A), which states that any issue which falls under the jurisdiction of a Sharia court cannot be overruled by a secular high court. The Court's decisions have also for context the Constitution's Article 3, which states that Islam is the religion of the Federation.\n\nThe Government maintains an official list of fifty-six sects of Islam which the government considers \"deviant\" and a threat to national security. Muslims who deviate from accepted Sunni principles may be detained and subjected to mandatory \"rehabilitation\" in centers that teach and enforce government-approved Islamic practices. Muslims generally may not convert to another religion, although members of other religions may convert to Islam.\n\nMalaysia requires every citizen (from age twelve) to be issued with a national identity card, the MyKad. This card has a microchip which contains, among other information, the name of the cardholder’s religion. All Malays (an ethnic group comprising more than fifty percent of the population)—of whatever religion—have cards with the word \"ISLAM\" on the card's face. The identity cards enable \"religious police\" to identify Muslims who are violating Islamic precepts.\n\nGovernment-sponsored schools require Muslim children to receive Islamic religious instruction. The schools require non-Muslim children to take morals or ethics courses. Student assemblies frequently commence with recitation of a Muslim prayer. The Government requires all Muslim civil servants to attend government-approved religion classes.\n\nThe government strictly controls what is broadcast and published. The Printing Press and Publications Act 1984 prohibits the publication of articles or pictures that could disturb public security, harmony, or morality. The printing, sale, distribution, or possession of any banned book is punishable by up to three years imprisonment and/or a fine of 20,000 ringgits. In 2008, the government banned sixty-two books that touched upon religion. In 2008, customs authorities seized six titles of Christian children's books because the books contain words that—according to Islamic authorities—belong to Islam. The Publications and Al-Quran Texts Control Department contended that \"Allah\" (God), \"Baitullah\" (House of God), and \"Solat\" (prayer) are lawfully used by Muslims only.\n\nIn August 2009, a state court sentenced a Muslim woman to six strokes of the cane and a RM 5,000 ($1,400) fine after she was caught drinking beer in a hotel in the Malaysian state of Pahang.\n\nIn March 2009, Malaysian religious authorities threatened to sue the Malaysian Bar, which represents 12,000 of the country’s lawyers, for using the word “Allah” on the Bar's website.\n\nIn November 2008, the Malaysian National Fatwa Council told Muslims to refrain from doing yoga because is it blasphemous. The condemnation of yoga followed upon the Council's condemnation of females who wear trousers. The Council said that girls who wear trousers are at risk of becoming sexually-active \"tomboys\".\n\nIn 2008, religious authorities were seeking Ayah Pin, the leader of a banned, nonviolent religious group known as the Sky Kingdom, and one of his four wives for supporting \"deviant\" religious practices. On 3 March 2008, a Sharia Court sentenced Kamariah Ali, 57, who converted from Islam to the banned group, to two years imprisonment for apostasy.\n\nOn February 12, 2008, the Internal Security Ministry issued a directive to the Catholic Church to stop using the word \"Allah\" in its weekly publication, \"The Herald\". On 16 February 2009, the Ministry revised its directive to permit the word \"Allah\" in Christian publications if each publication bore a notice which indicated the publication was not for Muslims.\n\nIn January 2008, officials from the Ministry of Internal Security seized Christian children's books from several bookshops. The books contained drawings representing Moses and Noah. The officials deemed the drawings \"caricatures of prophets,\" and said the drawings were offensive to Muslim sensibilities. The Malaysian Council of Churches accused ministry officials of overstepping their authority by confiscating literature that was not meant for Muslims. The Ministry returned the books.\n\nIn August 2007, the government of Malaysia suspended for one month the operations of a daily \"Makkal Osai\" (in the Tamil language) for violating the Printing Presses and Publications Act 1984. On 21  August 2007, the daily had published a caricature of Jesus Christ clutching a cigarette and a can of beer.\n\nOn 23 January 2006, the National Fatwa Council, Malaysia's highest Islamic authority, banned Muslims from taking part in the activities associated with Black Metal music. Datuk Mustafa Abdul Rahman, the director-general of the Islamic Development Department, told a press conference on 27 January 2006, that Black Metal often led its followers to worship Satan, rebel, kill, and incite hatred. Nevertheless, the government favored counseling rather than a ban upon the musical genre.\n\nOn or about 23 May 2002, a French missionary was arrested on blasphemy charges after distributing a pamphlet about Quranic plagiary. Though he could have been sentenced to two to five years in jail for \"acting in a manner which could lead to disharmony between Christians and Muslims,\" a judge ordered that he be deported.\n\nIn 2000, the Sharia High Court in the state of Kelantan sentenced four persons to three years in prison for disregarding a lower court's order to recant their deviant beliefs and \"return to the true teachings of Islam.\" The High Court rejected the argument that Sharia has no jurisdiction over people who have ceased to be Muslims. In dismissing the appeal, the Court of Appeal ruled (in August 2002) that only the Sharia court has jurisdiction to determine whether a person has ceased to be a Muslim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40433435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40433435", "title": "Bullet Train for Australia", "text": "Bullet Train for Australia\n\nBullet Train for Australia was an Australian political party, registered from 2013 to 2017. It was a single-issue party campaigning for a fast implementation of high-speed rail. It advocates that the first stage of the bullet train should run from Melbourne to Newcastle via Canberra and Sydney, and be built within 5 years.\n\nThe party grew out of the Bullet Train for Canberra party led by Tim Bohm, which at the 2012 ACT elections gained around 9,000 votes, representing 4% of first preference votes.\nThe party had 18 candidates in the 2013 federal election, in the ACT, NSW and Victoria.\n\nThe party was involved in Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance.\n\nThe Bullet Train For Australia party fielded four candidates for seats in the House of Representatives in the ACT, NSW and Victoria in the 2016 federal election. \n\nOn 23 May 2017, the Australian Electoral Commission approved the party's application for voluntary deregistration.\n\n"}
{"id": "49552289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49552289", "title": "Chief Justice of Zimbabwe", "text": "Chief Justice of Zimbabwe\n\nThe Chief Justice of Zimbabwe is the chief judge of the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe. As such, he is head of the Zimbabwe judiciary. \n\nPer Section 168 of the Zimbabwean Constitution, the Chief Justice is assisted by a Deputy Chief Justice and no fewer than two other associate justices. The Chief Justice leads the business of the Supreme Court and presides over oral arguments. He is also the most senior of the three members of the Zimbabwe Court of Appeals. The Chief Justice also administers the oath of office to the President of Zimbabwe. Like other Supreme Court justices, he is obligated to retire at age 70.\n\nSince the court was established in 1927, 14 men have served as Chief Justice. This includes eight chief justices during the Southern Rhodesia and Rhodesia periods. The first Chief Justice was Sir Murray Bisset. Since Zimbabwe's independence in 1980, six men have served as Chief Justice. Of these six, three have been White and three Black. The current Chief Justice since 2017 is Luke Malaba.\n"}
{"id": "34570096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34570096", "title": "Civil rights referendum", "text": "Civil rights referendum\n\nA civil rights referendum or human rights referendum is any act of direct democracy which allows for a vote on the granting or amendment of current civil rights, liberties or associations as recognized by a government. Such referenda have frequently been proposed as a means by which the majority of the voting public in a polity, rather than the judicial or legislative chambers of government, could determine what the state should recognize or carry out, while such referenda have been strongly criticized by civil rights organizations and professional bodies as means by which the majority of the public could vote on the rights of a vulnerable minority according to contemporary prejudices.\n\nCivil rights referenda have been frequently proposed by those in ideological rejection against lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender rights, most often due to Abrahamic religious objections against homosexuality. In countries where governments have passed, activists have frequently sought to put either a repeal of the new LGBT-affirmative law or a (constitutional or statutory) ban on LGBT-affirmative activities or relationships, and often rely upon a core religious constituency in order to drive the advocacy for such a referendum.\n\nIn the United States, civil rights referenda were held in the latter 1900s in order to prohibit same-sex unions (including marriage) and repeal amendments to human rights ordinances which included sexual orientations and gender identities as protected classes. The climax of such legislation was the passage of a record number of U.S. state constitutional amendments banning same-sex unions by referendum in 2004, which coincided with a large turnout for the re-election of George W. Bush to the presidency and Republican legislators to control of both houses of Congress.\n\nAmong those who advocate for LGBT rights, the delegation of marriage and other rights to the \"will of the people\" has propelled the notion of preventing civil rights-related laws and proposals from going to the ballot. This notion was underscored in the aftermath of the passage of California Proposition 8 in California.\n\nIn a 2000 Alabama referendum on repealing the 1901 state constitutional ban on interracial marriage, over 40% of the participating electorate voted against repealing the ban. While the ban was rendered unenforceable following \"Loving v. Virginia\", the 40.51% of the populace voting against the repeal . In 1998, South Carolina voters voted 61.95%-38.05% in favor of repealing their own constitutional ban. Harvard University professor Werner Sollors intimated that the laws took so long after \"Loving\" to be repealed because of the complex clauses which required large majorities in order to repeal them.\n\nOn January 26, 2012, in remarks accompanying his decision to veto the legalization of same-sex marriage by the State Legislature and call for a referendum on the matter, New Jersey governor Chris Christie remarked that \"The fact of the matter is, I think people would have been happy to have a referendum on civil rights rather than fighting and dying in the streets in the South. It was our political institutions that were holding things back.\" He was strongly criticized by politicians and activists of both African-American and other ancestries from both inside and outside of New Jersey, with Newark mayor Cory Booker stating \"...dear God, we should not put civil rights issues to a popular vote to be subject to the sentiments and passions of the day. No minority should have their civil rights subject to the passions and sentiments of the majority.\" Christie initially criticized the response of many legislators as a Democratic partisan ploy, but walked back his comments by apologizing for offense on February 1 while continuing to back his call for a referendum.\n\nWomen's suffrage was first brought forward as proposed legislation in the Kansas women's suffrage referendum, 1867. The proposal was defeated twice before passing.\n"}
{"id": "42002113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42002113", "title": "Collective work", "text": "Collective work\n\nA collective work is a work that contains the works of several authors assembled and published under the direction of one natural or legal person who owns the copyright in the work as a whole. \nDefinitions vary considerably from one country to another, but usually treat ownership of the work as a whole as distinct from ownership of the individual contributions, so the individual authors may retain the right to publish their work elsewhere.\nIt is common for publication of articles on the Internet, when isolated from the context of the overall work, to be considered to be outside of the standard agreement between the author and the owner of the collective work.\n\nMany countries have agreed to be bound by the terms of the Berne Convention and/or the TRIPS Agreement.\n\nArticle 2.5 of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (Paris Text 1971) specifies: \"Collections of literary or artistic works such as encyclopaedias and anthologies which, by reason of the selection and arrangement of their contents, constitute intellectual creations shall be protected as such, without prejudice to the copyright in each of the works forming part of such collections.\"\n\nSection 10.2 of the TRIPS Agreement, to which members of the World Trade Organization are bound, states, \"Compilations of data or other material, whether in machine readable or other form, which by reason of the selection or arrangement of their contents constitute intellectual creations shall be protected as such. Such protection, which shall not extend to the data or material itself, shall be without prejudice to any copyright subsisting in the data or material itself.\"\n\nIn general, the author of a contribution to a collective work retains the copyright, and the publisher does not have the right to reuse the contribution in some context other than the collective work without the express consent of the author. \nIn England it has been held that exploiting the work of a freelance newspaper photographer in a back numbers website was a use that had not been contemplated in the original license and was not covered by the license.\nSuch reuse would also infringe the journalist's copyright in the United States.\nIn a 1997 case in the Netherlands it was held that reuse of newspaper articles on a website and CD-ROM went beyond the implied license.\nIn Germany any attempt by the author to grant rights to exploit their work in a way that was unknown when the contract was made is null and void under the law.\nIn France, online publication is considered fundamentally different from print publication.\n\nThe Creative Commons legal code for Attribution-NonCommercial 2.0 (CC2.0) defines a collective work as:\n\nThe license for a CC2.0 work allows the user to incorporate the CC2.0 work in a collective work in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter devised. The collective work does not have to be released under a Creative Commons license, but access to the incorporated CC2.0 work must be consistent with the CC2.0 license, and the author must be credited.\n\nThe British Statute of Anne (1710) was the first copyright law in the world.\nThe statute is considered a \"watershed event in Anglo-American copyright history ... transforming what had been the publishers' private law copyright into a public law grant\". \nUnder the statute, copyright was for the first time vested in authors rather than publishers; it also included provisions for the public interest, such as a legal deposit scheme. The Statute was an influence on copyright law in several other nations, including the United States, and even in the 21st century is \"frequently invoked by modern judges and academics as embodying the utilitarian underpinnings of copyright law\".\n\nIn Australia a collective work is a work composed of separate parts that each attract their own copyright.\nAn example would be a song in which the author of the music and the author of the lyrics each have copyright in their contribution.\nThe authors have a moral right to be attributed, but only if they are author of a substantial part and it is reasonable to identify the author.\nIt may be unreasonable to attribute each author in a collective work such as an encyclopedia.\n\nUnder Canadian copyright law, a collective work means \n\nWhen the author of a work is the first owner of copyright, any rights granted by the author revert to his estate.\nHowever, this does not apply to the assignment of the copyright in a collective work or a licence to publish a work or part of a work as\npart of a collective work.\n\n\"Robertson v Thomson Corp\", is a 2006 Supreme Court of Canada decision on the ownership of copyright in published text that are stored in databases. The ruling held that though a newspaper held the copyright in the collection and the arrangement of freelance articles and in its newspaper, it could not publish the articles within a database. Publication within the database would remove the articles from the context of the collective work and therefore their publication as such was not within the rights held by the newspaper.\nRobertson decided that freelance journalists' copyright can stop the republication of their articles onto databases which display one article at a time but not onto CD-ROMs featuring whole newspapers. The court decided that a CD-ROM in which individual articles may only be viewed in the context of a whole newspaper is not a republication of an individual article as an individual work, but is rather a reproduction of the newspaper as a whole as a work.\n\nIn the United Kingdom section 178 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (CDPA) defines a collective work as either “(a) a work of joint authorship or (b) a work in which there are distinct contributions by different authors or in which works or parts of works of different authors are incorporated.”\nThe general principle is that authors who contribute to a collective work have the right to control future exploitation in their works unless this is expressly waived in the contract.\nThe editor receives a separate copyright in the collective work for their efforts as long as they meet the originality standard set by the government.\nThe copyright law related to collective works does not provide an exception to the general European term of protection of 70 years following death, which would apply to death of the last surviving author.\n\nThe Copyright Act 1842 stated that the authors of contributions to collective works did not retain full copyright control over their works. However, they had the right to be paid, the right to refuse consent for additional uses of their work, reversion of copyright after 28 years and (if agreed with the owner of the collective work) the ability to publish their own work.\nThe 1911 Act, which replaced the 1842 Act, stated that the owner of a collective work would only gain ownership of the copyright of contributions where they had given or promised some valuable consideration and there was no agreement to the contrary.\nThe author would retain copyright if this could be inferred from the mutual intention of the parties.\nUnder the Copyright Act 1911, no copyright vests in the proprietor of a collective work unless the author is employed under a contract of service or apprenticeship, or there is an assignment in writing; and when the copyright vests in the proprietor of a periodical by reason of a contract of service or apprenticeship, the author may restrain separate publication.\n\nWith the 1911 Act the author of a contribution would regain copyright after 25 years, but this would be concurrent with the publisher's right in the collective work. \nIt was argued that reversion of full rights to the author would have been \"a great hardship to proprietors of collective works, particularly of those permanent in nature, such as ecyclopaedias, if they could not have acquired from the author an unfettered right to produce the work at any future time as part of the collective work.\"\nThe author could, however, restrain the publisher from transferring or licensing their work to others.\nUnder the Copyright Act 1956 employees retained copyright in their work unless there was an agreement to the contrary.\nThe CDPA removed the waiver on employee rights.\n\nIn the Copyright law of the United States, the Copyright Act of 1976, section 101, defines a collective work as \"a work, such as a periodical issue, anthology, or encyclopedia, in which a number of contributions, constituting separate and independent works in themselves, are assembled into a collective whole\". \nIt is protected as long as the \"author\" can show that the selection and organization of the contributions is original, and that these contribution can themselves be protected, as opposed to being mere facts such as statistical data.\n\nArticle 201 (c) states, \"Copyright in each separate contribution to a collective work is distinct from copyright in the collective work as a whole, and vests initially in the author of the contribution. In the absence of an express transfer of the copyright or of any rights under it, the owner of copyright in the collective work is presumed to have acquired only the privilege of reproducing and distributing the contribution as part of that particular collective work, any revision of that collective work, and any later collective work in the same series\".\nThe compiler, or author of the collection, owns copyright in the expression he or she contributed, which is primarily the selection and arrangement of the separate contributions, but may include such things as a preface, advertisements, etc., that the collective author created.\nThe contributions remain the property of the authors by default, but the property may be passed to the owner of the collective work by contract.\nThey may also obtain ownership of the contributions if they are works made for hire.\n\nThe Supreme Court case of \"New York Times Co. v. Tasini\" (2001) concerned free-lance journalists who had been paid for their contributions to paper editions of newspapers and magazines, but their contracts had not covered digital rights for reproduction on CD-ROMs or publication on the Internet.\nWhen the articles were distributed in electronic form a few years later, the court ruled that this did not constitute a revision of the work, because the articles could be accessed individually.\nA revision must maintain the articles in their context of origin.\nIn \"Faulkner v. National Geographic Enterprises Inc.\" (2005), a Court of Appeal ruled that an electronic version of a newspaper was a revision of the collective work if it reproduced the paper version identically, including advertisements and photographs.\n\n\"The New Renaissance\", the report of the \"Comité des Sages\" Reflection Group on Bringing Europe’s Cultural Heritage Online, published on 10 January 2011, stated that the public sector had a duty to digitize their cultural heritage. Under the heading of \"Ensuring wide access to and use of digitised public domain material\" the report stated:\n\nThe Copyright Term Directive of 2006 was intended to address the second concern, but has not been effective in harmonizing the terms and definitions.\nIt does state that the term of protection for works whose right-holder is a legal person, as well as for collective works, is 70 years after the work is made available to the public.\nIt also states that where \"the natural persons who have created the [collective] work are identified as such in the versions of the works which are made available to the public\" the duration of protection is 70 years after the death of the last surviving author.\nHowever, there is no standard European definition of the terms \"works of joint authorship\" and \"collective works\", so each country must define laws and make legal decisions over when a work with multiple authors is a work of joint authorship, collective work or simply a collection of separate works.\n\nIn the Czech Republic a collective work is a work that is created with the participation of more than one authors at the initiative and under the management of a natural person or of a legal entity and made available to the public under that person’s or entity’s name and where the individual contributions involved in the work are not capable of independent use. The work is protected for 70 years after it was made publicly available.\n\nThe concept of a collective work (\"œuvre collective\") in the copyright law of France is complex, and case law and scholarly views do not always agree.\nBernard Edelman, in his \"l’œuvre collective : une définition introuvable\" (1998), describes the legal definition of collective works as \"obscure and tangled\".\nHowever, all authorities agree that the concept of an \"oeuvre collective\" in France covers dictionaries, encyclopaedias and periodical works such as newspapers or magazines.\n\nA \"collective work\" in France is a work created at the initiative of a natural or legal person who edits it, publishes it and discloses it under his direction and name and in which the personal contributions of the various authors who participated in its production are merged in the overall work for which they were conceived, without it being possible to attribute to each author a separate right in the work as created.\n\"A collective work shall be the property, unless proved otherwise, of the natural or legal person under whose name it has been disclosed. The author’s rights shall vest in such person.\"\n\"In the case of ... collective works, the term of the exclusive right shall be 70 years from January 1 of the calendar year following that in which the work was published.\"\n\nIt does not matter whether the contributors are identified or remain anonymous.\nThe \"maître\" takes all the ownership rights in a collective work, and these rights are directly vested in the \"maître\" rather than transferred from the contributors, as long as the \"maître\" directed the creative process enough for it to be considered a collective work.\nIn a 22 March 2012 decision the French Supreme Court (\"Cour de cassation\") stated that \"the natural or legal person at the initiative of a collective work is vested with the author's rights over this work and, in particular, the moral rights prerogatives\".\nEach contributor to the collective work retains the moral rights to their contribution.\n\nThe rise of the Internet has opened new questions about the rights of the authors of contributions to a collective work.\nWhen a newspaper is reproduced in its entirety the reproduction falls under the collective work regime.\nPublication in successive editions of a newspaper during the course of the day, each of which reproduces a large part of the previous edition, is not seen as publication in another newspaper.\nElectronic publication of the entire newspaper could therefore be seen as an edition of the same collective work.\nHowever, partial or selective reproduction may require the agreement of the contributors.\nFurther, the contributors to a newspaper may have the right to separately publish a thematic selection of articles without infringing the rights of the owner of the collective work.\n\nThe main relevant law in Germany is the Copyright Act of 9 September 1965, the \"Gesetz über Urheberrecht und verwandte Schutzrechte \" (UrhG).\nGerman copyright law defines collective works as collections of works, data, or other independent elements, provided that the collection itself is a personal intellectual creation (UrhG, sec. 4 para 1), in other words: a work as defined by UrhG, sec. 2 para 2.\nThe authors grant the rights of exploitation to a third party who decides what works to include in the collection.\nThe difference from a work of joint authorship is that it is practical to separately exploit the parts of a collective work, while that cannot be done with parts of a work of joint authorship. \nIt is possible to distinguish between the collection as a work and the parts as different works.\n\nSince the authors retain copyright in their contributions, both the authors and the creator of the collective work must consent to its exploitation.\nThe creator and the authors of the contributions may enforce their rights separately.\nThe copyright term of each contribution is measured from the death of the author of the contribution.\nThe collective work resembles a joint work in that the author of each contribution may require the consent to alteration or exploitation of all the contributors \"if such consent may reasonably be demanded of them.\"\nTwo years after granting an exploitation right to an editor, or after delivering the work to the editor, the author can revoke the grant if the work has not been published and the author has been harmed as a result.\n\nIn Hungary a work shall be regarded as a collective work if the contributions of the authors co-operating in the creation of the work are combined in the product of joint creation in a manner which makes the separate determination of the individual authors' rights impossible. In the case of a collective work ... the copyright shall be transferred by legal succession to the natural or legal person, business company or legal entity at whose initiative and under whose instructions the work was created and who published it in his own name.\nThe term of protection of a collective work shall be seventy years counted from the first day of the year following the first disclosure of the work.\n\nArticle 3 of the Italian Copyright Law defines collective works as formed by “the assembling of works or parts of works possessing the character of a self-contained creation resulting from selection\nand coordination with a specific literary, scientific, didactic, religious, political or artistic aim, such as encyclopaedias, dictionaries, anthologies, magazines and newspapers”. The collective work as a whole is protected for 70 years from publication. For magazines, newspapers and other periodical works, each individual part or issue is given an independent term.\nThe collective works shall be protected as original works, independently and without prejudice to the copyright on the works or parts of works of which they are composed.\"\n\nArticle 7 of the Copyright Law considers the author as the one who organizes and directs the creation of the work: \"The author of a collective work is considered to be the person who organizes and directs its creation itself.\"\nWhat characterizes the collective work is not so much the structural element as the creative coexistence of two levels: that of individual contributions that make up the work and the total ideation of the work and the choice and coordination of contributions or of organization and direction of creative activity carried out by employees.\n\nThe individual parts of the collective work are deemed creative works, so the rights to them are retained by their individual creators. This is stated in paragraph 2 of Article 38 of the Copyright Law stating: \"The right to use their own contributions separately is reserved for the individual employees of the collective work, in compliance with the agreed terms, and failing that, the following standards.\"\nMoreover, the Article 38 also provides that: \"With a collective work, unless otherwise agreed, the right to economic use is with the publisher of the same\" where \"publisher\" means the natural or legal person who assumes the economic risk and bear the costs imposed by the creation and publication of the work.\n\nAs part of these works we must therefore distinguish three distinct holders of rights: the author (who organizes and directs its creation), the publisher (who owns only the economic rights) and individual authors. \nArticle 42 allows the use of a fragment from the collective work by the author provided it indicates the collective work from which it was taken, and the date of publication:\n\"The author of the article or other work that is reproduced in a collective work shall be entitled to reproduce it in separate publications or collected in a volume, provided that it indicates the collective work from which it is taken and the date of publication.\"\n\nIn Kosovo the copyright in the collective work lasts for seventy years after the lawful disclosure of the work, unless the natural persons who have created the work are identified as such in the versions of the work which are disclosed to the public. \nIn case of identification of the authors, copyright will last for seventy years from the date of death of the last surviving author.\nProperty rights and other copyrights pertaining to a database or collective work created during employment are considered to have passed to the employer exclusively and without limitations, unless the contract provides otherwise, \n\nA collective copyright work is a work created by collaboration of several authors, by combining their contribution separately into a whole such as encyclopedias, lexicons, databases, computer programs, collections and similar works at the initiative and under the direction of a natural or legal person as the ordering party. \nIt is considered that the authors transfer unlimited and exclusive rights to all the material and other copyright in the collective work, unless otherwise provided by contract. \nThe principal of the collective copyright work has the right to publish and use the work in its own name, but every copy of the work must contain a list of authors participating in \nthe creation of collective work.\n\nUnder Dutch copyright law Article 5 states that “if a literary, scientific or artistic work consists of separate works by two or more persons, the person under whose guidance and supervision the work as a whole has been made or, if there is no such person, the compiler of the various works, shall be deemed the author of the whole work, without prejudice to the copyright in each of the works separately”. This could apply to works such as anthologies or encyclopedias.\nThe term of protection is not specified, so by default the collective work may be assumed to be protected until 70 years after the death of the person deemed to be author of the whole work. If this person is a legal person, protection would be for 70 years after publication.\n\nIn Norway a work is protected for 70 years following the year of death of the author. \nIn a collective or joint work, this is counted from the death of the longest surviving author. \nFor a motion picture, the following are considered authors: main director, scriptwriter, dialogue author, and composer of original musical score.\n\nUnder the 1987 copyright law of Spain collections of other works, such as anthologies, and other elements or data that by the selection or arrangement of materials constitute intellectual creations, are considered protected works without prejudice to the rights of the authors of the original works.\nA collective work is a work created by the initiative and under the coordination of a natural or legal person who edits and publishes it under their name and consists of the collection of contributions from different authors whose personal contributions are based on autonomous creation, and for whom it is not possible to attribute separately a right over the whole of the work. Unless otherwise agreed, the rights to the collective work belong to the person who publishes and disseminates it under their name.\nThe duration of rights over a collective work shall be sixty years from the date of its disclosure.\nArticle 28 of the 1996 revision to this law grants collective works protection for 70 years following lawful disclosure of the work.\n\nIn Algeria a collective work is protected for 50 years from publication, 50 years from the time it was made accessible to the public if unpublished, or 50 years from the time it is realized that it has not been made available to the public within 50 years of creation.\n\nChinese law is in some ways closer to that of common law countries than to European civil law. \nIt follows the general principle that ownership is originally vested in the author, but makes an exception with collective works.\nArticle 11 of the Chinese copyright code states that when a legal entity or organization directs creation of a work and bears responsibility for the work, that entity is considered the author of\nthe work. All rights vest in the organizational author.\n\nUnder the copyright law of the Philippines, a \"collective work\" is a work which has been created by two or more natural persons at the initiative and under the direction of another with the understanding that it will be disclosed by the latter under his own name and that contributing natural persons will not be identified.\nWhen an author contributes to a collective work, his right to have his contribution attributed to him is deemed waived unless he expressly reserves it.\n\nIn Vanuatu a \"collective work\" is a work created by 2 or more individuals at the initiative and under the direction of another person on the understanding that (a) the work will be disclosed by that other person under that person’s own name; and (b) the identity of the contributing individuals will not be indicated.\nThe person who initiated and directed the creation of a collective work is the original owner of the economic rights. \nA \"work of joint authorship\" is a work created by 2 or more authors and in which the contribution of each author is not separate from the contribution of the other author or the contributions of the other authors, but does not include a collective work. \nFor a collective work (other than an work of applied art) and an audiovisual work protection extends for 50 years on and after the date on which the work: was made; or first made available to the public; first published; whichever date is the latest. \n\n"}
{"id": "45602880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45602880", "title": "Consular court", "text": "Consular court\n\nConsular courts were law courts established by foreign powers in countries where they had extraterritorial rights. They were presided over by consular officers. \n\nWestern powers when establishing diplomatic relations with countries they considered to have underdeveloped legal systems would demand extraterritorial rights. Treaty provisions provided that the laws of the local country did not apply to citizens of the treaty powers and that local courts did not have jurisdiction over them. Consular courts were established to handle civil and criminal cases against citizens and subjects of the subjects of the country. The British had the widest system of consular courts run by the Foreign Office. British consular courts could be found in Africa, the Ottoman Empire, Egypt, China, Japan, Korea and Siam.\n\nIn China and Japan under the \"unequal treaties\" signed in the mid-19th century many countries established consular courts in cities open to foreign trade (called treaty ports). \n\nBritain established a fully fledged court system in China and Japan. In 1865, the British Supreme Court for China and Japan was established in Shanghai, China as a first instance consular court for cases in the Shanghai region as well as an appellate court for cases heard by consular courts in the rest of China, Japan and, from the 1880s Korea. In 1879, a British Court for Japan was established in Yokohama to replace the Kanagawa Consular Court to hear first instance cases for Yokohama region as well as to act as an appellate court for cases from consular courts in other Japanese cities. \n\nIn Japan extraterritoriality came to an end on 4 August 1899 and the British Court for Japan and other consular courts closed soon after that after finalising pending cases. \n\nIn 1906, the United States established the United States Court for China modelled on the British Supreme Court for China and Japan.\n\nIn China, consular courts operated up until the 1940s when extraterritoriality for most nations came to an end then.\n"}
{"id": "40844443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40844443", "title": "Consultative Assembly (Luxembourg)", "text": "Consultative Assembly (Luxembourg)\n\nThe Consultative Assembly () of Luxembourg was established in 1945 towards the end of World War II, when it became clear that the Chamber of Deputies could not fulfill its constitutional role. The point of the Consultative Assembly was to exercise those rights accorded to the Chamber by the constitution and laws, with the exception of legislative powers.\n\nAfter World War II ended in Luxembourg on 10 September 1944, a session of the Chamber was called for 6 December 1944. Out of the 55 Deputies of the pre-war Chamber, only 25 were present. 9 Deputies had died, 10 were still in German prisons or concentration camps, and 9 were under suspicion of collaboration with the German occupation. As fewer than half the Deputies were there, there was no quorum, as demanded by the constitution. Therefore, the Chamber was not capable of functioning and taking decisions. \n\nAt the urging of the Unio'n, the umbrella organisation of the Resistance, a Consultative Assembly was established by Grand-Ducal decree on 22 February 1945, in order for the Liberation Government to be advised in its duties. The members of the Assembly were appointed by another decree on 12 March 1945. It started its activities just days after the last Luxembourgish villages, near Echternach, had been liberated. \n\nFrom 20 March 1945 to 16 August 1945, 18 sessions of the Assembly took place. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23557554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23557554", "title": "Decree of Nectanebo I", "text": "Decree of Nectanebo I\n\nThe Decree of Nectanebo I was issued by Pharaoh Nectanebo I of the 30th dynasty of Ancient Egypt. It regards payments to the local temple, and was recorded on two steles.\n\nThe location of the temple was near the Canopic branch of the Nile River, in the eastern Nile Delta of Lower Egypt. Accordingly, steles were erected at two locations as statements to curry political favor with the priesthood, and possibly the populace.\n\nThe twin steles are identical in 14 columns of hieroglyphs except in column 13, where the stele's location is named. The steles were erected shortly after Nectanebo came to power, ca 380 BC.\n\nThe stele's purpose was to use a 10 percent portion of the waterway-use tax (unspecified import tax) for the services of the priests in charge of the temples of the goddess Neith.\n\nA finely engraved lunette adorns the upper third of the steles; the engravings and hieroglyphs are all incised in moderate sunken bas relief. The lunette focusses on two versions of the Goddess Neith, being offered a food offering on the right, and a usekh collar on the left, by the presenter Nectanebo.\n\nThe first stele, the Stele of Naukratis was uncovered at Naukratis in 1899, and was subsequently translated.\n\nOnly recently, its twin stele was recovered from the underwater site of Heracleion, an ancient Egyptian city that was discovered by archaeologists in 2000. Heracleion was also located on the Canopic branch of the Nile.\n\nHerakleion is also mentioned on the steles.\n\nM. Lichtheim, \"The Naucratis Stela Once Again,\" in J. H. Johnson and E. F. Wente (eds.), \"Studies in Honor of George R. Hughes, January 12, 1977\" (Chicago 1976), 139-47. http://oi.uchicago.edu/research/pubs/catalog/saoc/saoc39.html\n\nJ. Yoyotte, \"An Extraordinary Pair of Twins: The Steles of the Pharaoh Nektanebo I,\" in F. Goddio and M. Clauss (eds.), \"Egypt's Sunken Treasures\" (Munich 2006), 316-23.\n\nS. v Bomhard,\"The Decree of Saïs. Underwater Archaeology in the Canopic Region in Egypt\". Oxford Center for Maritime Archaeology 7, (Oxford 2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "54750210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54750210", "title": "Disney on Parade (stage show)", "text": "Disney on Parade (stage show)\n\nDisney on Parade, was a series of touring arena stage shows produced by NAWAL Productions, a joint venture between NBC and Walt Disney Productions. Aimed primarily at children and families, the shows featured live performers portraying the roles of Disney characters in performances derived from various Disney films.\n\nThe initial idea for \"Disney on Parade\" was convinced by Thomas Sarnoff, youngest son of Robert Sarnoff. The elder Sarnoff had served as the president of NBC and CEO of RCA. NBC at the time aired Walt Disney Productions' weekly anthology series. To produce the show, Disney teamed with the network to create NAWAL Productions, with NBC being the general partner and Disney the limited partner.\n\nFollowing a trial run in Long Beach, California, the first edition of \"Disney on Parade\" launched in Chicago, Illinois on December 25, 1969 and was an instant success. However, the show suffered from an overabundance of props, inexperienced performers, high costs and a run time of nearly three hours, so NBC replaced producer Bob Jani with Michel M. Grilikhes, who made effective changes, including rearranging or removing acts, to reduce costs and time without affecting the show's quality. Grilikhes, affectionately known to the cast and crew as \"Mr. G\", would executive-produce and direct further editions of \"Disney on Parade\".\n\nFour editions of \"Disney on Parade\", each with a different set of acts, would tour across the United States and around the world, including runs in South America, Europe, Asia and Australia; a performance in Adelaide, Australia was videotaped and broadcast as a one-hour special on NBC's \"The Wonderful World of Disney\" in December 1971. By 1976, the shows ceased performing internationally.\n\nEach edition of \"Disney on Parade\" typically began with Mickey Mouse and a cavalcade of Disney characters dancing on the stage and personally greeting members of the audience. The show would then present lavish musical segments, depicting characters and scenes from Disney films, alongside smaller comedy routines with characters like Donald Duck, Goofy and Herbie the Love Bug. Finally, the characters appeared together for a grand finale and bid the audience farewell. Each show was divided into two acts with one 15-minute intermission.\n\nThe arena stages typically sported a giant curtain, from which characters and sets would emerge, and a circular motion picture screen that would present clips from Disney features and shorts at the beginning of major acts.\n\n\"Disney on Parade\" was well-received by audiences and critics. The first edition's run at Madison Square Garden made a record $400,000 in advanced ticket sales, and a run in Salt Lake City, Utah booked 77,255 people in nine days, some 38% of the population. It later toured Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America, making $64 million worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "52768320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52768320", "title": "Domain fronting", "text": "Domain fronting\n\nDomain fronting is a technique that circumvents Internet censorship by hiding the true endpoint of a connection. Working in the application layer, domain fronting allows a user to connect to a blocked service over HTTPS, while appearing to communicate with an entirely different site.\n\nGoogle disabled domain fronting in April 2018, saying that it had \"never been a supported feature at Google.\" Amazon also decided to disable domain fronting for CloudFront in April 2018, claiming it was \"already handled as a breach of AWS Terms of Service\". This effort by both Google and Amazon was in part due to pressure from the Russian government over Telegram domain fronting activity using both of the cloud providers' services.\n\nThe technique works by using different domain names at different layers of communication. The domain name of an innocuous site is used to initialize the connection. This domain name is exposed to the censor in clear-text as part of the DNS request and the TLS Server Name Indication. The domain name of the actual, blocked endpoint is only communicated after the establishment of an encrypted HTTPS connection, in the HTTP Host header, making it invisible to censors. This can be done if the blocked and the innocuous sites are both hosted by the same large provider, such as Google App Engine.\n\nFor any given domain name, censors are typically unable to differentiate circumvention traffic from legitimate traffic. As such, they are forced to either allow all traffic to the domain name, including circumvention traffic, or block the domain name entirely, which may result in expensive collateral damage.\n\n"}
{"id": "18682471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18682471", "title": "Ewing v. Goldstein", "text": "Ewing v. Goldstein\n\nEwing v. Goldstein (Cal. Ct. App. 2004) is a landmark court case that extended California mental health professional's duty to protect identifiable victims of potentially violent persons, as established by Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California, to include acting upon communications from third parties that indicate a possible threat.\n\nIn the \"Factual and Procedural Background\" section of its ruling, the appellate court found the following facts:\n\nBetween 1997 and 2001, former police officer Gene Colello received treatment from David Goldstein. One of reasons for seeking treatment was the depression that Colello was experiencing after breaking up with his girlfriend and learning that she had become involved with Keith Ewing. In June 2001, Colello told his father that he was \"considering causing harm\" to Ewing. Colello's father relayed this statement to Goldstein. Goldstein encouraged Colello's voluntary hospitalization, which was done. When learning that Colello was going to be discharged from the hospital the next day, Goldstein urged the hospital psychiatrist to reconsider that decision. The hospital discharged Colello and, one day later, he murdered Ewing and then committed suicide.\n\nEwing's parents brought suit against Goldstein (as well as Collello's parents and the hospital psychiatrist) alleging professional negligence for failing to warn either Ewing or law-enforcement agencies about the \"risk of harm his patient posed to their son's safety\".\n\nThe court ruled that the case should be heard by the lower court. They determined that the duty to protect was not sufficiently discharged by initiating involuntary commitment and could be discharged only by warning the identifiable victims.\n\nThis case created a clear distinction between the duty to protect and the subordinate duty to warn and made communications by a third party indicating threatening statements equivalent to statements made directly by that person.\n"}
{"id": "7040233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7040233", "title": "Federal Commissioner of Taxation v Peabody", "text": "Federal Commissioner of Taxation v Peabody\n\nFederal Commissioner of Taxation v Peabody was a 1994 High Court of Australia tax case concerning certain transactions made by the Peabody family business. The Australian Taxation Office (ATO) sought to apply the Part IVA\ngeneral anti-avoidance provisions of the\nIncome Tax Assessment Act 1936.\n\nThe case was decided in favour of the taxpayer Mary Peabody, on the slightly technical grounds that there wasn't a reasonable expectation she would have received the income in question (from the family trust) in the year and under the interpretation asserted by the ATO.\n\nThe significance of the case today, and the reason it's frequently cited, is principally its place in judicial interpretation of Part IVA. The ATO in particular didn't regard the case as a complete loss, they took remarks in the judgements as confirming their interpretation of that legislation.\n\nThe Peabody family and Ray Kleinschmidt owned a business producing fly ash, also known as pozzolan, used in concrete. It was a set of four companies, called the Pozzolanic Group. Kleinschmidt owned 38%, and the Peabody family owned 62%, through a family trust. The trustee was a company of which husband and wife Terence and Mary Peabody were directors, and the beneficiaries were Mary Peabody and their two sons.\n\nTerence Peabody had planned for some time to buy Kleinschmidt's share then float 50% of the total business on the Australian Stock Exchange. In late 1985 he and Kleinschmidt reached an agreement where Kleinschmidt would sell his shares for $8.6 million, an amount which was based on a business valuation and which was to remain confidential. Instead of Terence Peabody or the family trust buying out Kleinschmidt directly, the transaction was structured as follows.\n\nThe Peabody trust bought a shelf company called Loftway and Kleinschmidt sold his shares to it for the agreed $8.6 million. The Peabodys (now 100% owners) then had the Pozzolanic group companies convert those shares to \"Z class\" and restrict their rights, rendering them worthless. The shares the Peabody trust owned were then all that remained, a 100% interest in the business (apart from a few owned by Terence Peabody in his own name).\n\nThe money to pay Kleinschmidt was provided by Westpac Bank subscribing for $8.6 million worth of Loftway preference shares. The interest on them was obtained from the Pozzolanic companies paying dividends to Loftway, which in turn paid dividends to Westpac. The capital was repaid after the float when the Peabody trust lent $8.6 million from the float proceeds to Loftway in order for it to redeem Westpac's shares. That loan was subsequently forgiven by the trust.\n\nThis indirect structure had three apparent purposes,\n\n\nThe last point is a little unclear. Perhaps it was that Loftway's ownership of Pozzolanic shares was not an income producing purpose, so plain interest payments would not be tax deductible. If so then that would be in a sense a consequence of using Loftway, rather than an independent rationale for the structure.\n\nThe Australian Taxation Office (ATO) took the view that the mechanism was a tax avoidance scheme, a scheme which came under Part IVA of the \"Income Tax Assessment Act 1936\". The ATO treated the transaction as Kleinschmidt selling to the Peabody trust, and then on-selling to the public in the float, making a profit of the difference. This was a capital gain, and the 1/3 of that attributable to Mary Peabody as trust beneficiary was $888,005. The ATO added that to her return for the year ending 30 June 1986.\n\nMary Peabody lodged an objection to the ATO assessment, which the ATO disallowed. She then asked the ATO to refer it to the Federal Court (as any taxpayer may do). Her argument was that the transaction was structured as it was for the commercial reasons of confidentiality and the cost of financing, as described above.\n\nJustice O'Loughlin in the Federal Court agreed with the ATO that the devaluation to Z-class shares was a scheme, and considered the argument about non-disclosure to be a \"red herring\".\n\nMrs Peabody appealed to the full bench of the court, and they instead considered the transfer, financing and float together, and found for her. The ATO went to the High Court, which upheld the full bench decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "19142657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19142657", "title": "Gallagher v. Crown Kosher Super Market of Massachusetts, Inc.", "text": "Gallagher v. Crown Kosher Super Market of Massachusetts, Inc.\n\nGallagher v. Crown Kosher Super Market of Massachusetts, Inc., 366 U.S. 617 (1961), is a United States Supreme Court case that declared that a kosher butcher store had to abide by the state laws that banned them from selling on Sunday.\n\nThe owners of the Crown Kosher Super Market of Massachusetts were Orthodox Jews whose religion forbids them to shop or sell from sundown on Friday until sundown on Saturday and requires them to eat only kosher food, were keeping their store open on Sunday at times when it was against the Massachusetts state law.\n\nThe lawsuit was in a Federal District Court to make certain sections of the Massachusetts Sunday Closing Laws unconstitutional. Specifically, \"the selling or delivering of kosher meat by any person who, according to his religious belief, observes Saturday as the Lord's day by closing his place of business during the day until six o'clock in the afternoon, or the keeping open of his shop on the Lord's day for the sale of kosher meat between the hours of six o'clock and ten o'clock in the forenoon.\"\n\nThe store had formerly been open for business all day on Sundays and had done about a third of its weekly business then. It was closed from sundown on Fridays until sundown on Saturdays. The store had claimed that it was economically impractical for it to keep open on Saturday nights and until 10 a.m. on Sundays. Many who bought at the store would not have been able to get meat from Friday afternoon until Monday.\n\nACLU Side: Herbert B. Ehrmann, with Samuel L. Fein on the brief.\n\nOpposing Side: Joseph H. Elcock, Jr., Asst. Attorney General of Massachusetts. With him on the brief were Edward J. McCormack, Jr., John Warren McGarry, Arthur E. Sutherland, Jr., and S. Thomas Martinelli.\n\nThe court 6-3 approved the state law, due to the laws not being exclusively religious.\n\"An examination of recent Massachusetts legislative history bolsters the State's position that these statutes are not religious.\n\n\"In general, Sunday laws protect the public by guaranteeing one day in seven to provide a period of rest and quiet. Health, peace and good order of society are thereby promoted. Such provision is essentially civil in character, and the statutes are not regarded as religious ordinances.\"\n\nAlso on the issue of free exercise of religion they stated: \"Secondly, appellees Orthodox Jewish customers allege that, because their religious beliefs forbid their shopping on the Jewish Sabbath, the statutes' effect is to deprive them, from Friday afternoon until Monday of each week, of the opportunity to purchase the kosher food sanctioned by their faith. The orthodox rabbis allege that the statutes' effect greatly complicates their task of supervising the condition of kosher meat, because the meat delivered on Friday would have to be kept until Monday. Furthermore, appellees contend that, because of all this, the statutes discriminate against their religion.\n\nThese allegations are similar, although not as grave, as those made by appellants in \"Braunfeld v. Brown\", ante, p. 366 U.S. 599. Since the decision in that case rejects the contentions presented by these appellees on the merits, we need not decide whether appellees have standing to raise these questions.\"\n\nJustices William O. Douglas, William J. Brennan, Jr. and Potter Stewart dissented from the opinion.\n\nThis was one of the four cases decided in 1961 that declared blue laws to be constitutional. The other three were \"Braunfeld v. Brown\", \"Two Guys from Harrison-Allentown, Inc., v. McGinley\" and \"McGowan v. Maryland\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32709380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32709380", "title": "GeBIZ", "text": "GeBIZ\n\nGeBIZ is a Government-to-business (G2B) Public eProcurement business centre where suppliers can conduct electronic commerce with the Singapore Government. All of the public sector's invitations for quotations and tenders (except for security-sensitive contracts) are posted on GeBIZ. Suppliers can search for government procurement opportunities, retrieve relevant procurement documentations and submit their bids online.\n\nSingapore's GeBIZ, or the Government Electronic Business Centre, was set up in June 2000 to simplify government procurement and tender activities. It was part of the programmes for businesses under the e-Government Action Plan (eGAP I) (2000–2003) in Singapore.\n\nAs a one-stop centre for suppliers to have access to all procurement opportunities in the public sector and to trade electronically with the government, GeBIZ would create an entry point for businesses to access G2B services in an enterprise-centric manner instead of an agency-centric manner.\n\nThe end-to-end public e-procurement solution acts a stimulus to the development of e-commerce in Singapore. On one hand, public agencies enjoy the benefits of making electronic purchases of commonly used items; on the other hand, suppliers and tender bidders enjoy broader access to government tenders and quotations. Such a platform supports the procurement regime that is underpinned by the following fundamental principles:\n\nBeyond direct efficiency and cost savings, having a common e-procurement system for the entire public sector in Singapore resulted in transactions that accordance with government procurement policies (including World Trade Organisation - Agreement to Government Procurement).\n\nOther than having clear and comprehensive regulations (including legal and institutional framework) for the conduct of public procurement, it is also noted that GeBIZ enables greater transparency as all procurement operations, beginning with the announcement of a tender to the awarding of the contract, are published online. As such, local citizens and entrepreneurs benefit from the Singapore government's one-stop e-procurement portal since it helps level the competition to allow small and medium businesses to compete with established vendors whenever an agency issues an invitation to quote.\n\nThe e-procurement platform used in Singapore has been commercialised by IDA International. The new commercialised GeBIZ platform will serve as a one-stop e-business solution tool that will facilitate trading between organisations and their local and overseas suppliers.\n\nFor non-government agencies and business that want to adopt the Singapore Government's procurement best practices, the new GeBIZ platform will operate on a Software-as-a-Service platform, enabling businesses to pay according to specified preferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "32258936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32258936", "title": "Gender Expression Non-Discrimination Act", "text": "Gender Expression Non-Discrimination Act\n\nThe Gender Expression Non-Discrimination Act (GENDA) is a proposed New York law which adds gender identity and Gender expression as a protected class in the state's human rights and hate crimes laws, prohibiting discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations and other areas, and providing enhanced penalties for bias-motivated crimes. It was first introduced in both the Assembly and Senate in 2003 and has been passed for the 8th time in the Assembly since 2007, but has never come to a vote on the floor of the State Senate. It was promoted as a priority of Empire State Pride Agenda, which previously promoted the SONDA law, which was enacted into law in 2003.\n\nGENDA has been introduced in nearly every legislative session in New York since it was first introduced in 2003.\n\nIn 2009, Senator Thomas Duane introduced the bill to the 2009-2010 session of the New York Senate. The bill was referred to the Committee on Investigations and Government Operations on 19 February 2009 and then to the Committee on the Judiciary on 21 May 2010. On 8 June 2010, the bill was defeated in the Judiciary Committee by a vote of 11-12.\n\nIn 2012, New York State Senator Daniel Squadron introduced the bill to the 2011-2012 session of the New York Senate. Senator Duane had resigned earlier that year. The bill was referred to the Committee on Investigations and Government Operations on 31 January 2012 and then to the Committee on Rules on 16 Mar 2012, where it did not receive a vote.\n\nIn 2013, Squadron introduced the bill to the 2013-2014 session of the New York Senate. The bill was referred to the Committee on Investigations and Government Operations on 9 January 2013, where it was amended twice but never received a final vote.\n\nIn 2015, Squadron introduced the bill in the 2015-2016 session of the New York Senate. The bill was referred to the Committee on Investigations and Government Operations on 9 January 2013, where it was once again amended without receiving a final vote.\n\nIn 2017, Squadron once again introduced the bill in the 2017-2018 session of the New York Senate, with 20 additional sponsors. It was referred to the Committee on Investigations and Government Operations on 4 January 2017 and was defeated by a 3-6 vote on 25 April 2017. Five Republicans and one Democrat, Rubén Díaz Sr., voted no.\n\nIn 2018, GENDA passed the State Assembly by a vote of 100-43, but once again it did not get a floor vote in the State Senate. The Committee on Investigations and Government Operations, led by Republican State Sen. Terrence Murphy, killed the bill by a straight party lines 5-4 vote. \n\nActress, producer and transgender advocate Laverne Cox has traveled to Albany, N.Y. in March 2013 to speak with New York State legislators to encourage them to pass GENDA. One major concern has been bathroom safety, and whether or not transgender people should have access to sex-segregated spaces that are consistent with their gender identities. In Rochester and Albany N.Y., there have been no instances of a transgender person abusing the law and using a segregated bathroom or locker room to harass or perform illegal acts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54896947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54896947", "title": "Government of India v Taylor", "text": "Government of India v Taylor\n\nGovernment of India v Taylor [1955] AC 491 (sometimes called Re Delhi Electric Supply & Traction Co Ltd) is a judicial decision of the House of Lords relating to the enforceability of foreign tax claims under English law. The House of Lords unanimously upheld the general rule at common law that foreign tax claims are non-justiciable in England under the Act of state doctrine. Accordingly, a claim with respect to foreign taxes was not an admissible claim in the liquidation of a United Kingdom company. The English courts may not, directly or indirectly, enforce the tax claims of another sovereign state.\n\nThe Delhi Electric Supply & Traction Co Ltd was an English company which was formed in 1906. It was incorporated for the purpose of operating an electricity supply and tramway under an operating licence granted by the Municipality of Delhi. The company carried on business in India until approximately 1947 when it sold the whole of its undertakings to the Government of India on 2 March 1947. On 18 April 1947 India passed the Indian Income Tax and Excess Profits Tax (Amendment) Act 1947. On 25 May 1949 the company went into voluntary liquidation. Samuel Taylor and John Lovering were appointed as liquidators, having previously acted as directors of the company. On 24 October 1951 the Commissioner of Income Tax at Delhi served a notice claiming tax on the surplus from the sale of undertaking.\n\nThe liquidators rejected the claim, and sought directions from the court as to whether the claim was an admissible claim in the liquidation.\n\nThe case came before Vaisey J at first instance who dismissed the claim. That decision was upheld by the Court of Appeal (Lord Evershed MR, Jenkins LJ and Morris LJ). The Government of India then appealed to the House of Lords.\n\nAll five members of the House of Lords were unanimous that the claim must fail. Viscount Simonds gave the lead judgment. He commenced his speech by saying \"My Lords, I will admit that I was greatly surprised to hear it suggested that the courts of this country would and should entertain a suit by a foreign State to recover a tax.\" He summarised the general prohibition at common law, citing various earlier cases on point, including \"King of Hellenes v Broston\" (1923) 16 Ll L Rep 190, \"Re Visser\" [1928] Ch 877 and \"Sydney Municipal Council v Bull\" [1909] 1 KB 7. Having cited the general rule, he then discussed the two alternative grounds upon which counsel for the Government of India was arguing that an exception should be made:\n\nViscount Simonds rejected both arguments, describing them as \"frail weapons with which to attack a strong fortress\". He noted that the general common law had tacit Parliamentary approval in the passing of the Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act 1933, section 1(2)(b). He ultimately summarily rejected both arguments.\n\nLord Keith gave a short concurring judgment, specifically endorsing the recent judgment in \"Peter Buchanan Ltd v McVey\" [1954] Ir 89 (unreported at the time).\n\nLord Somervell also gave a short concurring speech, affirming the general statement of Lord Mansfield CJ in \"Holman v Johnson\" (1775) 1 Cowp 341 at 343 that \"no country ever takes notice of the revenue laws of another.\" He then went on to state that \"after considerable research no case of any country could be found in which taxes due to State A had been enforced in the courts of State B.\"\n\n\"Government of India v Taylor\" remains good law today. It forms the central basis of Rule 3 of Dicey Morris & Collins on \"The Conflict of Laws\", and is one of the primary authorities cited in support of that rule:\n\nHowever it has been qualified by subsequent authorities. In \"QRS 1 Aps v Frandsen\" [1999] 1 WLR 2169 it was held that to uphold a contractual indemnity for the payment of taxes would not constitute indirect enforcement of a foreign tax claim.\n\nIt has also been noted that in practice the effect of the rule is widely circumvented by international treaties.\n\n"}
{"id": "17493499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17493499", "title": "High Times Freedom Fighters", "text": "High Times Freedom Fighters\n\nThe High Times Freedom Fighters was a marijuana legalization group started by \"High Times\" Editor-in-Chief Steven Hager in 1987. The group was famous for marching into marijuana rallies dressed in psychedelic Colonial-style outfits while playing drums. They injected some life into what had become a slowly dying legalization movement. They forged a new generation of activists, and created a number of events around the country, the largest being the Boston Freedom Rally, which drew 100,000 people to Boston Common in the 1990s. The Freedom Fighters published a national newsletter for four years edited by Linda Noel (who also founded the Boston Freedom Rally). The Freedom Fighters also created free kitchens at the summer National Rainbow Family Gatherings, and the winter Regional Gatherings in Ocala, Florida.\n\nIn 1990, \"High Times\" released the documentary film \"Let Freedom Ring\", detailing the activities of the group. The film was directed by Bob Brandel and featured music by the original Soul Assassins. In 1993, the mailing list was given to the NORML and the organization was disbanded. Members of the group went on to create The Cannabis Action Network and The Green Panthers, among other groups. Even after the group disbanded, \"High Times\" continued to name a Freedom Fighter of the Month in every issue of the magazine, as well as an annual Freedom Fighter of the Year, who was always crowned at the Cannabis Cup in Amsterdam.\n\nA partial history: \n\nAccording to Steven Hager's Myspace blog:\nJohn Howell hired me as \"High Times\" executive editor around 1987. For amusement I started writing a column called \"Ed Hassle\" in the news section. The column was a parody of \"Ed Anger,\" a hilarious right-winger who was appearing in the Weekly World News. Ed Anger columns were being read over the airwaves by my favorite deejay, Bill Kelly of WFMU. But instead of being a rightwing lunatic, my Ed Hassle was a hippie fascist who grew pot and believed in alien abductions. I eventually worked the concept into a cartoon strip drawn by Flick Ford. One day \"High Times\" got an invitation to the Hash Bash in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Apparently the event was about to die, and some local stoners were hoping \"High Times\" could help resurrect it. Ed Hassle made a plea for all marijuana activists to attend the Hash Bash in Ann Arbor to hold a convention to create a national group called the Freedom Fighters. Hassle suggesting bringing drums and dressing in Colonial-style outfits. (This was a publicity ploy for news cameras and opened the door for interviews about hemp in Colonial times.) My band, The Soul Assassins, drove to the event in a psychedelic bus, marched into the Diag at the University of Michigan with a fife and drum corps of psychedelic pirates. That night, the Soul Assassins performed to a standing room crowd at a local bar. The Freedom Fighters organized free campgrounds for many rallies and provided free food to activists. The biggest supporter was a West Virginian named Rodger Belknap, who was also the first person to be voted Freedom Fighter of the Year. Eventually it became clear the group had been targeted for surveillance and many leaders dropped out while others were railroaded into jail with unusually harsh sentences, including Rodger Belknap.\n\nAfter the Freedom Fighters were about a year old, I decided to drop the \"Ed Hassle\" persona because it had gotten confused with another \"High Times\" columnist, Ed Rosenthal. In order to re-write the history off the origins of the group, I asked my friend Allegra to interview me for my own magazine. Unfortunately, the interview was perceived as signs of a messianic power trip and very quickly led to serious problems. I'd naively set out to throw a party and suddenly found myself in the center of a cultural tidal wave. The pressure got so intense I turned the Freedom Fighter mailing list over to NORML, and that was the end of the Freedom Fighters and also the end of any attempts at political activism or organizing.\n\n"}
{"id": "52783215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52783215", "title": "History of wealth taxes in Canada", "text": "History of wealth taxes in Canada\n\nInheritance and gift taxes in Canada have a complex history dating back to Canadian Confederation. They are beginning to see a return to prominence in the provincial sphere.\n\nSuccession duties have been held to be valid \"direct taxation within the province,\" and can apply in the following scenarios:\n\n\nSuccession duties came into effect in the various provinces at the following times:\n\nMany incidents involving double taxation arose from liability to duty in different provinces, as well as other jurisdictions abroad, which were dealt with inconsistently among the provinces.\n\nOntario was especially notable in its pursuit of duties. Mitchell Hepburn, in his capacity as Treasurer of Ontario, adopted a more aggressive approach in their collection on large estates, which resulted in millions of dollars in extra government revenues. He made no apologies for doing so, as he noted in a speech in 1938.\n\nIn 1937, legislation was passed that allowed for reexamination of estates for deaths that had occurred back to the beginning of 1916, and also included many gifts \"inter vivos\" within the duty's scope. Hepburn consequently ordered that all files relating to estates worth $500,000 or more, together with those of smaller estates where evasion was suspected, were to be reopened, with the expectation of raising further duties anywhere from $70 million to $100 million. The collection tactics employed included the seizure of books and records without a warrant, different methods for valuing assets, and the assessment of penalties that could amount to double or triple the amount of the duty involved.\n\nOne estate of particular focus in this campaign was that of the late John Rudolphus Booth, who had died in 1925. Although succession duties of $4.28 million were paid in 1927, Hepburn subsequently claimed more in 1937. Booth's heirs eventually paid another $3 million in 1939.\n\nDuty cannot be charged where property is left outside the province to beneficiaries who are neither resident nor domiciled in the province. Taken as a whole, chargeability to succession duty depended upon whether the donor's domicile, the donee's residence, as well as the donee's status at the date of the deceased's death and the date of the disposition of the estate. In 1967, Ontario published a table outlining the various effects:\n\nDeath taxes, which were not subject to the territorial limitations that affected provincial taxation, were first introduced at the federal level under the \"Dominion Succession Duty Act\" passed in 1941.() in 1941, In his Budget speech that year, Minister of Finance James Lorimer Ilsley explained why the federal government was entering in this area of revenue:\n\nIt was later replaced by the \"Estate Tax Act\" () in 1958, which was repealed at the end of 1971.\n\nThe succession duty focused on the succession being transferred, as opposed to the estate itself, which made it similar in scope to the UK's \"Succession Duty Act 1853\". The estate tax, in comparison, was modelled more along the line of the US estate tax.\n\nAt the introduction of each tax, the property that was subject to each was identified as follows:\n\nGift tax was introduced as part of R.B. Bennett's New Deal in 1935. It was framed as an antiavoidance measure, as explained by Edgar Nelson Rhodes in that year's Budget speech:\n\nAs a consequence, it was imposed by the Parliament of Canada later that year as part of the \"Income War Tax Act\".\n\nThe tax was wide in its scope:\n\nFrom 1947 to 1971, there was a complicated set of federal-provincial revenue-sharing arrangements, where:\n\nWhen Edgar Benson's white paper on tax reform was issued in 1969, his original intention was to retain estate and gift taxes in conjunction with introducing capital gains tax, with appropriate relief to avoid double taxation. After public consultations were held through hearings by parliamentary committees, he announced that, as \"it is no longer possible to establish a uniform national system of death duties through federal legislation,\" the federal government would vacate the estate and gift tax field on December 31, 1971. At that time, only British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec were still levying duties of their own. Most of the other provinces revived their succession duties, and also started levying gift taxes, on January 1, 1972.\n\nSuccession duties continued until the following dates:\n\nThese taxes were seen to have died out because of their relative unattractiveness, as noted by Peter Hogg:\n\n\nGift taxes were levied until the following dates:\n\nUpon the repeal of the federal estate and gift taxes on January 1, 1972, the income tax régime was altered to provide for a capital gains tax, which included liability arising from the \"deemed disposition\" of assets. Liability will arise from gifts from, and the death of, the taxpayer, as well in the following circumstances:\n\nThe provinces have moved in recent years to convert fees for the granting of letters probate and letters of administration from flat rates to ones based on the value of the estate. In 1992, Ontario introduced fees at a level higher than in any other province. The Supreme Court of Canada declared that the method by which it was introduced was unconstitutional, as its basis had not been the subject of appropriate legislation.\n\nAs a result, the provinces passed legislation to legitimate the fees already in effect:\n\nOntario already had the highest rates relating to probate taxes, but is still faced with large budget deficits. The provincial 2011 budget speech stated that there was still a compliance problem with respect to the Estate Administration Tax, and it accordingly passed amending legislation that year, coming into effect on January 1, 2015, which provided for the following changes:\n\nThe changes have been viewed as \"put[ting] undue pressure on executorsoften family membersfaced with balancing their grief with trying to make the Finance Ministry happy.\"\n"}
{"id": "14964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14964", "title": "International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994", "text": "International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994\n\nInternational Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994 (ITTA, 1994 or ITTA2) was drafted to ensure that by the year 2000 exports of tropical timber originated from sustainably managed sources and to establish a fund to assist tropical timber producers in obtaining the resources necessary to reach this objective.\nIt defined the mandate of the International Tropical Timber Organization.\n\nThe agreement was opened for signature on January 26, 1994, and entered into force on January 1, 1997.\n\nIt replaced the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983, and was superseded by the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 2006.\n\nSixty-two parties ultimately ratified the agreement:\n\nAustralia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, People's Republic of China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, European Union, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela\n\n"}
{"id": "6700594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6700594", "title": "Jaime Milans del Bosch", "text": "Jaime Milans del Bosch\n\nJaime Milans del Bosch y Ussía (8 June 1915 – 26 July 1997) was a lieutenant general in the Spanish Army who was dismissed and imprisoned in 1981 for his role in the failed coup d'état of 23 February 1981.\n\nMilans del Bosch was born into a noble family whose members had held many senior military ranks. He was the grandson of Joaquín Milans del Bosch. Jaime Milans del Bosch is reported to have repeatedly boasted of how many of his ancestors had participated in coups d'état. \n\nIn 1934, he entered the military academy of Toledo. As a cadet, he fought in the Spanish Civil War at the Alcázar of Toledo, where he was injured during a republican bombing. Shortly afterwards, he received his officer's commission in the Spanish Foreign Legion. In 1941, Bosch joined the Blue Division to fight against the Soviet Union under German command. \n\nAfter the war, he held successive positions as military attaché in Spanish embassies in Latin American countries, including Argentina, Uruguay, Chile and Paraguay.\n\nPromoted to brigadier general in 1971 and major general in 1974, he was appointed commander of the 3rd military district (headquartered in Valencia) in 1977, at the rank of lieutenant-general.\n\nMilans del Bosch was the only senior army commander who supported the coup without reservation and conducted offensive operations of importance. On 23 February 1981, shortly after Antonio Tejero had stormed the Spanish Congress of Deputies, he ordered tanks onto the streets of Valencia and decreed a state of emergency. \n\nAfter the televised message of King Juan Carlos I, those in the military who had not yet committed themselves decided to remain on the side of the government, causing the coup to fail. Despite the lack of support, Milans del Bosch only surrendered at 5 a.m. on the next day, 24 February.\n\nMilans del Bosch was court-martialled on 8 March 1981. On 3 June 1982, he was sentenced to 26 years and 8 months imprisonment and expelled from the army. Barely nine years later, in 1991, he was pardoned and released due to advanced age. He never expressed remorse for his involvement in the coup. \n\nHe returned to live in his native Madrid, where he died of a brain tumor in 1997. He is buried at the Alcázar of Toledo.\n"}
{"id": "42363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42363", "title": "John Perry Barlow", "text": "John Perry Barlow\n\nJohn Perry Barlow (October 3, 1947 – February 7, 2018) was an American poet and essayist, a cattle rancher, and a cyberlibertarian political activist who had been associated with both the Democratic and Republican parties. He was also a lyricist for the Grateful Dead and a founding member of the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Freedom of the Press Foundation. He was Fellow Emeritus at Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, where he had maintained an affiliation since 1998.\n\nBarlow was born near Cora, Wyoming, as the only child to Norman Walker Barlow (1905–1972), a Republican state legislator, and his wife, Miriam \"Mim\" Adeline Barlow Bailey (née Jenkins; 1905–1999), who married in 1929.\n\nBarlow's paternal ancestors were Mormon pioneers. He grew up on Bar Cross Ranch near Pinedale, Wyoming, a property founded by his great uncle in 1907, and attended elementary school in a one-room schoolhouse. Raised as a \"devout Mormon\", he was prohibited from watching television until the sixth grade, when his parents allowed him to \"absorb televangelists\".\n\nAlthough Barlow's academic record was erratic throughout his secondary education, he \"had his pick of top eastern universities... simply because he was from Wyoming, where few applications originated.\" In 1969, he graduated with high honors in comparative religion from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut. He claimed to have served as the University's student body president until the administration \"tossed him into a sanitarium\" following a drug-induced attempted suicide attack in Boston, Massachusetts. Following two weeks of rehabilitation, he successfully returned to his studies.\n\nPrior to receiving his degree, Barlow was admitted to Harvard Law School and contracted to write a novel by Farrar, Straus and Giroux at the behest of his mentor, the autodidactic Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist and historian Paul Horgan. Initially supported by a $5,000 or $1,000 advance from the publisher, he decided to eschew these options in favor of spending the next two years traveling around the world, including a nine-month sojourn in India, a riotous winter in a summer cottage on Long Island Sound in Connecticut, and a screenwriting foray in Los Angeles. Barlow eventually finished the novel, but it . During this period, he also \"lived beside Needle Park on New York's Upper West Side and dealt cocaine in Spanish Harlem.\"\n\nAt age 15, Barlow became a student at the Fountain Valley School in Colorado Springs, Colorado. While there, he met Bob Weir, who would later join the jam band the Grateful Dead. Weir and Barlow maintained their close friendship through the years. \n\nAs a frequent visitor during college to Timothy Leary's facility in Millbrook, New York, Barlow was introduced to LSD; he later claimed to have consumed the substance on over one thousand occasions throughout his life. These transformative experiences led Barlow to distance himself from Mormonism. He went on to facilitate the first meeting between the Grateful Dead and the Leary organization (who recognized each other as kindred souls in spite of their respective philosophical approaches) in June 1967.\n\nWhile on his way to California to reunite with the Grateful Dead in 1971, he stopped at his family's ranch, though had not intended to stay. His father had suffered a debilitating stroke in 1966 before dying in 1972, resulting in a $700,000 business debt. Barlow ended up changing his plans, and began practicing animal husbandry under the auspices of the Bar Cross Land and Livestock Company in Cora, Wyoming, for almost two decades. To support the ranch, he continued to write and sell spec scripts. In the meantime, Barlow was still able to play an active role in the Grateful Dead while recruiting many unconventional part-time ranch hands from the mainstream as well as the counterculture. Prior to his death in 2017, John Byrne Cooke intended to produce a documentary film (provisionally titled \"The Bar Cross Ranch\") that documented this era.\nBarlow became interested in collaborating with Weir at a Grateful Dead show at the Capitol Theatre in Port Chester, New York, in February 1971. Until then, Weir had mostly worked with resident Dead lyricist Robert Hunter. Hunter preferred that those who sang his songs stick to his \"canonical\" lyrics rather than improvising additions or rearranging words. A feud erupted backstage over a couplet in \"Sugar Magnolia\" from the band's most recent release (most likely \"She can dance a Cajun rhythm/Jump like a Willys in four-wheel drive\"), culminating in a disgruntled Hunter summoning Barlow and telling him \"take [Weir]—he's yours\".\n\nIn late 1971, with a deal for a solo album in hand and only two songs completed, Weir and Barlow began to write together for the first time. They co-wrote such songs such as \"Cassidy\", \"Mexicali Blues\" and \"Black-Throated Wind\", all three of which would remain in the repertoires of the Grateful Dead and of Weir's varied solo projects. Barlow subsequently collaborated with Grateful Dead keyboardist Brent Mydland, a partnership that culminated in four songs on 1989's \"Built to Last\". He also wrote one song (\"The Devil I Know\") with Vince Welnick.\n\nIn 1986, Barlow joined The WELL, an online community then known for a strong Deadhead presence. He served on the company's board of directors for several years. In 1990, Barlow founded the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) along with fellow digital-rights activists John Gilmore and Mitch Kapor.\n\nAs a founder of EFF, Barlow helped publicize the Secret Service raid on Steve Jackson Games. His involvement is later documented in \"\" (1992) by Bruce Sterling. EFF later sponsored the ground-breaking case \"Steve Jackson Games, Inc. v. United States Secret Service\" in support of Steve Jackson Games. Steve Jackson Games won the case in 1993.\n\nIn 1996, Barlow was invited to speak about his work in cyberspace to a middle school classroom at North Shore Country Day School. This event was highly influential upon the life of then-student Aaron Swartz: Swartz's father Robert recalls Aaron coming home that day a changed person.\n\nIn 2003, Barlow met the recently appointed Brazilian Minister of Culture Gilberto Gil at the event Tactic Media Brazil to discuss the perspectives of digital inclusion and political participation, which in the following years would help shape Brazilian governmental policy on intellectual property and digital media.\n\nIn 2004, the two began working together to expand the availability and variety of Brazilian music to remix and share online. At the same time, being one of the \"digerati\", Barlow was among the very first users of the invitation-only social network Orkut at its inception. He decided to send all of his 100 invitations to friends in Brazil; two years later, some 11 million internet users in that country (out of 14 million total) were on the social network.\n\nFrom 1971 to 1995, Barlow wrote lyrics for the Grateful Dead, mostly through his relationship with Bob Weir. Barlow's songs include \"Cassidy\" (about Neal Cassady and Cassidy Law), \"Estimated Prophet\", \"Black-Throated Wind\", \"Hell in a Bucket\", \"Mexicali Blues\", \"The Music Never Stopped\" and \"Throwing Stones\".\n\nBarlow wrote extensively for \"Wired\" magazine, as well as \"The New York Times\", \"Nerve\", and \"Communications of the ACM\". In his writings, he explained the wonder of the Internet. The Internet to him was more than a computer network; he called it an \"electronic frontier.\" \"He frequently wrote in language that echoed Henry Morton Stanley's African diary. 'Imagine discovering a continent so vast that it may have no end to its dimensions. Imagine a new world with more resources than all our future greed might exhaust, more opportunities than there will ever be entrepreneurs enough to exploit, and a peculiar kind of real estate that expands with development. Imagine a place where trespassers leave no footprints, where goods can be stolen infinite number of times and yet remain in the possession of their original owners, where business you never heard of can own the history of your personal affairs.'\"\n\nHis writings include \"A Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace\", which was written in response to the enactment of the Communications Decency Act in 1996 as the EFF saw the law as a threat to the independence and sovereignty of cyberspace. He argued that the cyberspace legal order would reflect the ethical deliberation of the community instead of the coercive power that characterized real-space governance. Since online \"identities have no bodies\", they found it inappropriate to obtain order in the cyberspace by physical coercion. Instead, ethics, enlightened self-interest and the commonwealth were the elements they believed to create a civilization of the Mind in Cyberspace.\n\nIn his 1990 piece \"Crime and Puzzlement: in advance of the law on the electronic frontier\", Barlow wrote about his first-hand experience with Phiber Optik (Mark Abene) and Acid Phreak (Elias Ladopoulos) from the hacker group Masters of Deception, and mentioned Kevin Mitnick—all of whom were engaged in phone phreaking. The title alludes to \"Crime and Punishment\" by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.\n\nBarlow is credited with popularizing of the concept of pronoia (defined as the opposite of paranoia) and was considered a celebrity ally of the Zippy Pronoia Tour in 1994.\n\nIn 1998, Barlow wrote the article \"Africa Rising: Everything You Know About Africa Is Wrong\" for \"Wired\", which documented the start of his extensive travels as he worked to expand Internet access across the continent: \"I went from Mombasa to Tombouctou, experiencing various parts of Kenya, Ghana, the Ivory Coast, Mali, Uganda, and the Virunga volcano area where Uganda, Rwanda, and the Congo meet. Part of the idea was that I would attempt to email \"Wired\" a series of dispatches on my travels. The act of finding a port into cyberspace would be part of the adventure… Before I left, I believed Africans could proceed directly from the agricultural epoch into an information economy without having to submit to the dreary indignities and social pathologies of industrialization.\"\n\nBarlow also returned to writing lyrics, most recently with The String Cheese Incident's mandolinist and vocalist Michael Kang, including their song \"Desert Dawn\". Barlow was seen many times with Carolyn Garcia (whose monologue is dubbed on the eponymous track \"Mountain Girl\") at their concerts mixing with the fans and members in the band, and was a close friend of String Cheese Incident producer Jerry Harrison. He also participated with the Chicago-based jam band Mr. Blotto on their release \"Barlow Shanghai\". Barlow was a spiritual mentor and student of Kemp Muhl and Sean Lennon, collaborating with their band The Ghost of a Saber Tooth Tiger and making a cameo in their 2014 music video \"Animals.\"\n\nOne of Barlow's writings that has remained in circulation is his \"Principles of Adult Behavior\", which he penned in 1977 on the eve of his 30th birthday and which he continued to use to describe his approach to life. He described his reason for writing these as he was about to enter adulthood, \"my wariness of the pursuit of happiness might be a subtle form of treason\". While he considered most of the twenty-five statements to be similar to platitudes that Polonius gave to Prince Hamlet, the fifteenth caught attention, \"Avoid the pursuit of happiness. Seek to define your mission and pursue that\", since that was counter to prevailing thought and \"un-American\". Barlow saw this more as a way to challenge how one perceived their life, their job, and their goals in life, and to not see achieving happiness as \"an obligation [one owes] to Jefferson, the United States, or God Itself\".\n\nBarlow was a former chairman of the Sublette County Republican Party, and served as western Wyoming campaign coordinator for Dick Cheney during his 1978 Congressional campaign. Although he had lauded Cheney as \"the smartest man I've ever met [with] the possible exception of Bill Gates\", Barlow subsequently renounced Cheney prior to his Vice Presidency, owing to his perceived repudiation of environmental and civil-rights issues in Congress. Barlow opined that \"Dick's votes… were parts of complex deals aimed at enhancing his own power… [H]e has the least interest in human beings of anyone I have ever met.\"\n\nBarlow was president of the Wyoming Outdoor Council from 1978 to 1984. He was chairman of the Sublette County Master Plan Design Commission and served on the Sublette County Planning and Zoning Commission for many years; in the latter capacity, he was one of five ranchers who administered water distribution in the New Fork Irrigation District, an area of nearly 100,000 acres serving about 35 ranchers.\n\nBy the early 2000s, Barlow was unable to reconcile his ardent libertarianism with the prevailing neoconservative movement, and \"didn't feel tempted to vote for Bush\"; in 2004, he said that he was \"voting for John Kerry, though with little enthusiasm\". Contemporaneously, he characterized cocaine derogatorily as a \"Republican drug\" that \"makes its users self-obsessed, aggressive, and greedy\". However, Barlow subsequently declared that he remained a Republican, most notably during an appearance on \"The Colbert Report\" on March 26, 2007, and also claimed on many occasions to be an anarchist.\n\nBarlow said he voted for Natural Law Party Presidential candidate John Hagelin in 2000 after discovering in the voting booth that his friend Nat Goldhaber was Hagelin's running mate. He said in 2004: \"I'm embarrassed for my country that in my entire voting life, there has never been a major-party candidate whom I felt I could vote for. All of my presidential votes, whether for George Wallace, Dick Gregory, or John Hagelin, have been protest votes.\" Barlow condemned Donald Trump in November 2016, characterizing him as a \"thorough creep\" and \"toxic asshole\" in a Facebook \"micromanifesto\".\n\nBarlow, until his death, served on the EFF's board of directors, where he was listed as a co-founder after previously serving as vice chairman. The EFF was designed to mediate the \"inevitable conflicts that have begun to occur on the border between Cyberspace and the physical world\". They were trying to build a legal wall that would separate and protect the Internet from territorial government, and especially from the US government.\n\nIn 2012, Barlow was one of the founders of the EFF-related Freedom of the Press Foundation and also served on its board of directors until his death. Barlow had several public conversations via video conference with fellow Freedom of the Press Foundation Board of Directors member Edward Snowden, and has appeared in interviews with Julian Assange of WikiLeaks touting Snowden as \"a Hero\".\n\nA Fellow Emeritus of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School, past member of the advisory board of Diamond Management & Technology Consultants (1994–2008), and a member of the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, Barlow was previously affiliated with the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland as a \"professor of cyberspace\".\n\nIn the final years of his life, he spent much of his time on the road, lecturing about and consulting on civil rights, freedom of speech, the state of the internet and the Electronic Frontier Foundation. He delivered lectures and panel discussions at TWiT Live, TedxHamburg, Hamburg (Germany), Greenfest SF, Civitas (Norwegian think tank), Internet Society (NY Chapter, New York), the USC Center on Public Diplomacy, and the European Graduate School. On September 16, 2012, he was a presenter at TEDxSantaCruz, in Santa Cruz, California.\n\nOn September 8, 2014, Barlow was the first speaker in the Art, Activism, and Technology: The 50th Anniversary of the Free Speech Movement colloquium series at University of California, Berkeley.\n\nBarlow also served on the advisory boards of the Marijuana Policy Project, Clear Path International, TTI/Vanguard, the Hypothes.is project, the stakeholder engagement non-profit Future 500 and the global company Touch Light Media founded by Anita Ondine. He was a collaborator on the WetheData project founded by Juliette Powell.\n\nHe was listed as Vice President at Algae Systems, a Nevada-based company with a working demo-scale pilot plant in Daphne, Alabama, dedicated to commercializing novel methods at the water-energy nexus for growing microalgae offshore as a second-generation biofuels feedstock and converting it to useful crude via hydrothermal liquefaction, while simultaneously treating wastewater, reducing carbon dioxide in Earth's atmosphere, and producing biochar.\n\nAt Startup Grind Jackson Hole on March 13, 2015, Barlow said that he was motivated to team up with Algae Systems after undergoing back surgery to address pain from an old ranching injury, while he had been an advisor to Herb Allison (president of Merrill Lynch at the time) and working to completely \"electronify\" financial transactions and speculative asset assembly \nBarlow was named \"One of the 25 Most Influential People in Financial Services\" in the June 1999 issue of \"FutureBanker Magazine\".\n\nThe surgery successfully alleviated the pain and catalyzed Barlow to change his focus from building wealth to building infrastructure in order to do something about the \"amount of alterations we are already enacting on Planet Earth… We are not necessarily making it warmer, but weirder.\" At Startup Grind Jackson Hole, Barlow also explained how once over tea with \"Grandmother of the Conservation Movement\" Mardy Murie, he was inspired by her words, \"Environmentalists can be a pain in the ass… But they make great ancestors.\" Adopting this philosophy, he stated, \"I want to be a good ancestor.\"\n\nFor several years, Barlow attended Burning Man. In 2013, he led a town hall meeting with Burning Man co-founder Larry Harvey about \"the current state [o]f Practical Anarchy at Burning Man\".\n\nA stir in the media transpired when retired U.S Army general Wesley Clark attended Burning Man in 2013 and spent time with Barlow and Harvey.\n\nBarlow appeared in many films and television shows, both as an actor and as himself. Interviews with Barlow have been featured in documentaries such as the Tao Ruspoli-directed film \"Monogamish\" (under production), \"Bits & Bytes\" (under production), and \"Dying to Know: Ram Dass & Timothy Leary\".\n\nThe iPhone app Detour, released in February 2015 by Groupon founder and ex-CEO Andrew Mason, features a 75-minute audio tour narrated by Barlow as he walks through the Tenderloin neighborhood in downtown San Francisco.\n\nBarlow was also a self-ordained minister who performed baptisms and weddings.\n\nBarlow's memoir, \"Mother American Night: My Life in Crazy Times\", was published posthumously in June 2018. Written with Robert Greenfield, it is a full length retelling of his life and times. The book was completed days before Barlow's death in February of that year.\n\nHe married Elaine Parker Barlow in 1977, and the couple had three daughters: Amelia Rose, Anna Winter, and Leah Justine. Elaine and John separated in 1992 and officially divorced in 1995. In 2002, he helped his friend realtor/entrepreneur/ model/actress Simone Banos deliver her daughter Emma Victoria, who became his surrogate daughter henceforth.\n\nHe was engaged to Cynthia Horner, a doctor whom he met in 1993 at the Moscone Center in San Francisco while she was attending a psychiatry conference and Barlow was participating in a Steve Jobs comedy roast at a convention for the NeXT Computer. She died unexpectedly in 1994 while asleep on a flight from Los Angeles to New York City, days before her 30th birthday, from a heart arrhythmia apparently caused by undetected viral myocarditis. Barlow describes this period in his life in the \"This American Life\" episode \"Conventions\", from August 29, 1997.\n\nBarlow had been a good friend and mentor to John F. Kennedy Jr., ever since his mother Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis had made arrangements for her troublesome son to be a wrangler at the Bar Cross Ranch for six months in 1978. The two men later went on many double dates in New York City with Kennedy's then-girlfriend Daryl Hannah and Cynthia.\n\nIn his piece \"A Ladies' Man and Shameless\", Barlow professed his love of many women at the same time, and summarized the relationships in his personal life, \"I doubt I'll ever be monogamous again… I want to know as many more women as time and their indulgence will permit me… There are probably twenty-five or thirty women—I certainly don't count them—for whom I feel an abiding and deep emotional attachment. They're scattered all over the planet. They range in age from less than half to almost twice my own. Most of these relationships are not actively sexual. Some were at one time. More never will be. But most of them feel as if they could become so. I love the feel of that tension, the delicious gravity of possibilities.\"\n\nBarlow was a friend and former roommate of the technology entrepreneur Sean Parker.\n\nIn 2014, Barlow suffered the loss of Buck, his beloved Maine Coon cat that he believed to be a bodhisattva; the cat had many fans on social media.\n\nAfter a series of illnesses, Barlow suffered a near-fatal heart attack on May 27, 2015. He later reported that he was recovering. Following a \"prolonged hospitalization\" for Barlow, the John Perry Barlow Wellness Fund was established in October 2016 to allay outstanding medical bills and \"provide the quality and consistency of care that is critical to Barlow's recovery as he faces a variety of debilitating health conditions\", including \"extremely compromised mobility\". A concert held on October 11, 2016 to benefit the fund at Sweetwater Music Hall in Mill Valley, California, featured Weir, Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Jerry Harrison, Les Claypool, Robin Sylvester, Jeff Chimenti, Steve Kimock, Sean Lennon, Lukas Nelson, and members of The String Cheese Incident.\n\nBarlow died in his sleep on the night of February 7, 2018 at his San Francisco home, at the age of 70.\n\n"}
{"id": "39583720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39583720", "title": "Kakavas v Crown Melbourne Ltd", "text": "Kakavas v Crown Melbourne Ltd\n\nKakavas v Crown Melbourne Ltd & Ors [2013] HCA 25 is a landmark Australian judgment of the High Court. The matter related to claims that casino had taken unfair or unconscientious advantage of the opportunity created by a patron's special disadvantage, being a gambling problem.\n\nHarry Kakavas a known problem gambler who had a gambling turnover of $1.5 billion and losses of $20.5 million claimed Melbourne's Crown Casino had engaged in unconscionable conduct by \"luring\" him into the casino with incentives and the use of the casino's private jet. In earlier proceedings it had also been claimed that a duty of care was owed by Crown to a patron with a gambling problem and that Crown lured or enticed him into its casino.\n\nThe High Court, in a joint judgement, approved the observation by the primary judge that \"[i]n the absence of a relevant legislative provision, there is no general duty upon a casino to protect gamblers from themselves.\" The Court found that Mr Kakavas wasn't at a special disadvantage which made him susceptible to exploitation by Crown and was able to make rational decisions in his own interests, including deciding from time to time to refrain from gambling altogether. Crown did not knowingly victimise Mr Kavakas by allowing him to gamble at its casino.\n"}
{"id": "37312560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312560", "title": "Kleinwort Benson Ltd v Birmingham City Council", "text": "Kleinwort Benson Ltd v Birmingham City Council\n\nKleinwort Benson Ltd v Birmingham CC [1996] 4 All ER 733 is an English unjust enrichment law case, concerning to what extent enrichment of the defendant must be at the expense of the claimant. It rejected a defence of \"passing on\" the gain against a claim of unjust enrichment.\n\nKleinwort Benson Ltd, a bank, paid Birmingham City Council money under interest rate swap agreements that were later declared to be \"ultra vires\" and void by the House of Lords. The Council argued it did not have to repay the money because the bank had passed on its losses through hedging transactions long before.\n\nThe Court of Appeal rejected that there could be a passing on defence. It rejected that there was any analogy to compensating for loss, so that it could be avoided or passed on. First, the payments received by the bank under the hedge contract were not causally connected with the payments of the bank under the swap contract. Second, the claims in unjust enrichment are not subject to a restriction on the defendant’s gain that it must correspond with loss. Evans LJ gave the leading judgment, referring to American, Australian and Canadian authority outlining the problems of a passing on defence. Saville LJ gave the second judgment.\n\nMorritt LJ concurred.\n\n"}
{"id": "8932322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932322", "title": "Legal systems in Asia", "text": "Legal systems in Asia\n\nLaw in Asia is undergoing rapid change and modernisation, especially given the economic growth in China and India. Asian countries share a substantial heritage with European law, whilst keeping their own distinct identity.\n\nAncient China and ancient India had historically independent schools of legal theory and practice such as the \"Laws of Manu\" or the \"Arthashastra\" in India and traditional Chinese law in China. Because Germany was a rising power in the late 19th century, and codified civil law is more 'exportable' than large bodies of common law jurisprudence, the German Civil Code has been highly influential for most oriental legal systems, and forms the basis of civil law in Japan and South Korea. In China, the German Civil Code was introduced in the later years of the Qing Dynasty and formed the basis of the law of the Republic of China which remains in force in Taiwan. The current legal infrastructure in the People's Republic of China reflects influences from the German-based civil law, English-based common law in Hong Kong, Soviet-influenced Socialist law, United States-style banking and securities law, and traditional Chinese law. In India, and other previous members of the Commonwealth, English common law forms the basis of private law.\n\n"}
{"id": "55968700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55968700", "title": "Legislative Council of the Gambia", "text": "Legislative Council of the Gambia\n\nThe Legislative Council of the Gambia was the legislature of the Gambia Colony and Protectorate from 1843 to 1866, and from 1888 to 1960.\n\nThe Gambia had formed part of the British crown colony known as the Province of Senegambia, however this was revoked in 1821 and for legislative affairs The Gambia had to turn to Sierra Leone. In 1843, a Legislative Council in The Gambia consisting of the Governor and no less than two other public officials was created. In 1866, opinion back in Britain was in favour of withdrawing from Africa, and all British West African colonies were placed under the control of Sierra Leone again, per Colonel Harry Ord's suggestion. The Legislative Council established in 1843 was abolished, and a small council, consisting of the Administrator, the Collector of Customs, and the Chief Magistrate was created in its place. It was merely advisory and important legislative decisions were made in Sierra Leone. Nevertheless, over its lifetime it was gradually expanded, and by its supersedence by the Legislative Council again, it consisted of five officials and four unofficial members, of whom two were Africans.\n\nThe Gambia was detached from Sierra Leone in 1888, and the Legislative Council was re-established. It consisted of the Governor, the Treasurer, the Chief Magistrate, the Collector of Customs, and other people who held office in the colony as ex-officio members. Provision also existed for the appointment of unofficial members, who could hold office for five years and be re-appointed.\n\nThe Legislative Council was established along with the Executive Council in 1901 as part of a progression towards self-government. By the 1940s, the Legislative Council had three or four unofficial members who were natives of the Gambia nominated by the Governor to serve on the council, but could not vote. In 1944, it was announced that proposals allowing for the direct election of one member had been put forward and were being implemented.\n\nThe Governor of the Gambia acted as the president of the Legislative Council, as well as of the Executive Council. They had the power to make law by proclamation, as well as to veto any law passed by the Legislative Council. The unelected members of the Legislative Council were the Colonial Secretary, the Financial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Senior Commissioner, the Director of Medical Services and two members appointed by the Governor from a list of nine names submitted by Bathurst Town Council and the Kombo Rural Authority.\n\n\nThe first direct election for a seat on the Legislative Council took place in 1947, where Edward Francis Small was elected. Three seats were up for election in 1951. John Colley Faye (Democratic Party) and Ibrahima Momodou Garba-Jahumpa (Muslim Congress Party) were elected in Bathurst, while Henry Madi (Independent) was elected in Kombo St Mary.\n\n"}
{"id": "21152871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21152871", "title": "Lian, Norway", "text": "Lian, Norway\n\nLian is an recreational area located west of the city centre of Trondheim in Trøndelag county, Norway. It is situated on the border between the neighborhood of Byåsen and the forested area of Bymarka. The site came into popular recreational use in 1933 when the Gråkallen Line (\"Gråkallbanen\") of the Trondheim Tramway was extended. Lian Station remains the terminus of Gråkallbanen.\n\nWith the arrival of the tramway, a ski jump was built and Lian Restaurant was opened at the end of the line. The area became a primary location for winter sports in the city. Lianvannet was an important swimming place during the summer and was also possible to rent row boats. A dancing area was also built. \n\nFrom 1925, the frozen lake was used for trotting, with up to 6,000 watchers. In 1927, A/S Graakalbanen offered the trotting association 100 hectare of land for a harness racing course, although the association did not except the deal since the tramway was not yet built. Instead they established Leangen Travbane at Leangen. During World War II, the new field was confiscated by the German occupation forces.\n\nThe area around Lian has many cabins and some houses. About sixty cabins are illegally permanently occupied; only those buildings occupied from before 1967 may legally be permanently lived in. In 2008, the city suggested giving an amnesty for those who live in illegal houses, but have suggested changing reconstruction regulations for all houses in the area. This will in essence decrease the house value of legal housing (which come under restrictions) to illegal housing (which now may be sold as permanent housing). This created a local controversy.\n\n"}
{"id": "5412907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5412907", "title": "Liland affair", "text": "Liland affair\n\nThe Liland affair was a Norwegian murder trial which gave rise to a miscarriage of justice. The affair became a grave embarrassment to the Norwegian criminal justice system.\n\nAt about 10:45 am on 24 December 1969, two men, John Oval Larsen and Håkon Edvard Johansen were found murdered at Glemmengata 73 in the Norwegian town Fredrikstad. Both had severe head injuries and there was a lot of blood at the scene. It was assumed that an axe was the murder weapon. The address was known to be frequented by people who abused drugs or alcohol and was referred to locally as \"little hell\". Three substance abusers were arrested on their way to the scene of the crime. Two of them were later freed, while the third, Per Kristian Liland, was imprisoned and in 1970 convicted of the crime. Liland always maintained his innocence. After serving his entire sentence he was finally acquitted in 1994 after it became clear that he was a victim of a miscarriage of justice. The case remains unsolved and is now subject to Norway's statute of limitations.\n\nPer Kristian Liland was a known substance abuser in Fredrikstad and was arrested near the scene of the crime on 24 December 1969, just before midday. He was charged with the murders and remanded in custody on 27 December. He remained on remand until his conviction at Eidsivating Court of Appeal on 3 July 1970. He was convicted of the premeditated murder of Larsen and the murder of Johansen (in an attempt to conceal a punishable offence). He was sentenced to life imprisonment (at the time that meant 12 years) with an additional sentence of up to 10 years if it was considered he could repeat the crime due to mental disorders. (The sentences (\"livsvarig fengsel\" and \"sikiring\") no longer exist in that form in Norwegian law.)\n\nThe time the murders were carried out was an important point in the case. Per Liland could only be connected to the murders if they had been committed on the afternoon or evening of 22 December. A local GP, Mikael Frestand, was called to the scene before the Norwegian police unit which deals with serious crime arrived in Fredrikstad. He arrived at the scene shortly after midday and testified that the bodies were \"cold and stiff\". He entered 24 December 1969 as the date of death for both victims' death certificates which were issued several days later. In the section on the form which dealt with when the injuries had taken place, he entered \"23/12-24/12?\". At the start of the investigation it was assumed that the murders had taken place at some time between 19:30 on 23 December and 02:00 on 24 December.\n\nCourt-appointed experts claimed that the murders could have taken place on 22 December. Even though several witnesses also claimed that the murder victims had been seen and that activity had been registered at the address at a later point in time, the court decided to ignore this testimony and found that Per Liland had committed the murders on 22 December. Alf Nordhus, the lawyer who represented Liland appealed against the handling of the case and the sentencing at the Supreme Court. The appeal was rejected on 28 November 1970.\n\nLiland, through Alf Nordhus sought to have the case reviewed on 27 December 1971. The application included 1700 pages of documents collected by Sten and Vibeke Ekroth and which also included sound recordings of witnesses who stated that the victims had been seen alive after the murders were supposed to have taken place. Sten Ekroth, a Swedish pop music manager was on an engagement trip with his wife-to-be Vibeke and by chance came to play an important role in the case. The documentation the Ekroths provided formed the basis of the application to have the case looked at again. The couple was newly in love and wanted to document everything they experienced. For that reason they smuggled a tape recorder with them into court. They followed the case closely and had the impression that Liland was innocent. The application to have the case reopened was rejected by Eidsivating Court of Appeal on 7 May 1975. The decision was appealed to the Supreme Court but was rejected by the Court's Appeal committee on 5 March 1976.\n\nPer Liland served out his sentence until 22 June 1983. At the time Norwegian law allowed sentences of prisoners who were considered a danger to society to be extended by a maximum of ten years. His sentence was extended to the maximum permitted and he remained in prison until 22 June 1993.\n\nOn 23 June 1993, the day after his sentence ended, Liland started a new attempt to have the case reopened. The case was advanced by Ole Jakob Bae and Cato Schiøtz, who later were appointed to the defence in the reopened case.\n\nA decisive factor in Liland's conviction was that the murders were deemed to have taken place on 22 December. There were several indications that they had actually taken place on 23 December or 24 December, when Per Liland could not be connected to the crime scene.\n\nAnalysis of the victim's blood showed that Larsen had a blood alcohol level of 0.023% at the time of death, while no alcohol was detected in Johansen's blood. There had been a party at the scene of the crime on 22 December and much alcohol had been consumed. Both murder victims were characterised as alcoholics and it was assumed that both were drunk during the party. The original medical experts Jon Lundevall and Johan Chr. Giertsen which the prosecution had relied on therefore concluded that Johansen must have lived for at least 13 hours after having been injured. Testimony from new medical experts did not support this theory. It was also revealed that the two original experts had disagreed but that this had not been revealed during the original court case. It also emerged that blood was found at the scene which had not solidified.\n\nAt the original trial several witnesses claimed to have seen the two murder victims alive after 22 December. The court decided to ignore these statements. Sten and Vibeke Ekroth had, after the trial, questioned several witnesses who made similar claims. During the reopening of the case further witnesses confirmed that the murder victims had been alive after 22 December.\n\nIt came to light that police officers Hageløkke and Restad, who investigated the scene of the murder had found a food coupon in Larsen's back pocket. The coupon had been issued by Fredrikstad municipality and had a value of 65 kroner. The report detailed that the coupon had the number 121013 and that it was dated 23 December. The prosecution had neglected to present this evidence to the court. It could have, by itself, been enough to acquit Per Liland in the first instance.\n\nFurther examination revealed that dates in the report had been changed from 23 December to 22 December and that the coupon number had been changed from 121013 to 121031. The coupon itself disappeared and Fredrikstad municipality was also unable to find a copy of the coupon.\n\nOn 29 April 1994 Eidsivating Court of Appeal ruled that the case should be reviewed. The prosecution appealed against the decision, but the appeal was rejected by the Supreme Court on 2 September 1994.\n\nNew charges were brought against Liland. Before the main proceedings, the prosecution informed that court that it intended to drop its objection to a full acquittal. The case proceeded on 21 November 1994. Without any evidence being presented, the court acquitted Liland.\n\nPer Liland immediately applied for compensation under Norwegian trial law. The court awarded him 2,900,000 kroner for lost income, 840,000 for lost future income and 10,000,000 kroner for non-economic loses, a total of 13,740,000 kroner.\n\nPer Liland died in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "5836446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5836446", "title": "Limited Liability Act 1855", "text": "Limited Liability Act 1855\n\nThe Limited Liability Act 1855 (18 & 19 Vict c 133) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that first allowed limited liability for corporations that could be established by the general public in the UK.\n\nUnder the Act, shareholders were still liable directly to creditors, for the unpaid portion of their shares. The modern principle that shareholders are liable to the corporation was introduced by the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844.\n\nThe 1855 Act allowed limited liability to companies of more than 25 members (shareholders). Insurance companies were excluded from the act, though it was standard practice for insurance contracts to exclude action against individual members. Limited liability for insurance companies was allowed by the Companies Act 1862.\n\nIn the House of Lords, a considerable amount of opposition existed to the idea that companies should have the advantage of limited liability. Many peers objected to what appeared to them as the government rushing through the bill as if its urgency was connected to the effort in the Crimean War. Earl Grey was one of these. He said,\n\nEarl Granville replied to these concerns as follows.\n\n\n\nhttp://hansard.millbanksystems.com/lords/1855/aug/07/limited-liability-bill#S3V0139P0_18550807_HOL_4\n"}
{"id": "2572522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2572522", "title": "Malaysian nationality law", "text": "Malaysian nationality law\n\nMalaysian nationality law is the law of Malaysia that deals with citizenship and other forms of nationality. Nationality law is mentioned in the Constitution of Malaysia.\n\nCitizenship law was first implemented in several Malaysian states before the country achieved independence and sovereignty. The Straits Settlements, consisting of Penang, Malacca, Singapore and later Labuan, was the first entity to introduce nationality laws in the region. The Naturalization Act of 1867 stated that:\nany person, whilst actually residing in the Colony, may present a memorial to the Governor in Council, praying that the privileges of naturalisation may be conferred upon him.\nIt also provided that:\nsuch memorial shall state to the best of the knowledge and belief of the memorialist, his age, place of birth, place of residence, profession, trade or occupation, the length of time during which he has resided within the Colony, that he is permanently settled in the Colony, or is residing within the same, with attempt to settle therein.\nThe criteria to be a Malaysian citizen are:\n\nA person can become a citizen of Malaysia either by \"registration\" or \"naturalisation\". In cases by registration, where a person is by operation of law is a citizen but have yet to be registered, such person is entitled to citizenship upon application and be registered as a citizen of Malaysia. For cases by naturalisation, this refers to the process of admitting a person not a citizen of Malaysia to citizenship. This is subjected to the requirements and conditions of the Federal Government. Any person holding Malaysian citizenship is also disallowed to hold any other country's citizenship. Malaysia does not allow dual citizenship.\n\nThose applying for citizenship by registration must have \"an elementary knowledge of the Malay language\". Those applying to become naturalised citizens must have \"an adequate knowledge of the Malay language\" and have resided in the country for ten of the past twelve years, including the twelve months immediately preceding the application. These requirements are set out by Part III of the Constitution; however, as there is no objective definition of what constitutes elementary or adequate knowledge of Malay, in practice, the tests are often subjective, sometimes even varying in whether a written knowledge of Malay is required.\n\nPermanent residency in the states of Sabah and Sarawak are distinct from the other 11 Malaysian states. While Sabah and Sarawak each has autonomy in immigration affairs (which includes imposing immigration restrictions on Peninsular Malaysia residents), permanent residents of Sabah and Sarawak are exempted from the immigration controls of their own states. A Malaysian citizen born to a Sabah or Sarawak permanent resident would have Sabah or Sarawak permanent residency, regardless of where the person was born. Birth in Sabah or Sarawak alone does not make a person a permanent resident unless one of his/her parents is a permanent resident. A person may become a Sabah or Sarawak permanent resident by obtaining Permanent Residence (PR) status issued by the respective state immigration departments. The permanent residency status of a person is indicated by a letter on his/her MyKad below the photo, with \"H\" for Sabahans, \"K\" for Sarawakians, and none for Peninsular Malaysians. A similar scheme is also used in Malaysian passports, differentiated by the letter prefix of the passport number:\"H\" for Sabahans, \"K\" for Sarawakians, and \"A\" for Peninsular Malaysians.\n\nAll Malaysian citizens are Commonwealth citizens and are entitled to certain rights in Britain and other Commonwealth countries. For example, they can vote in all elections (including for the European Parliament), hold public office and serve on juries in the UK. Malaysians are entitled to consular assistance from British embassies in non-Commonwealth countries without a Malaysian representative.\n\nThese rights include:\n\nSeveral early independence acts did not contain any provision for the loss of citizenship of the United Kingdom and Colonies by citizens of the newly independent states. A notable case is that of the former Settlements (colonies) of Penang and Malacca in what is now Malaysia. These were combined in 1948 with the nine Malay states (which were protected states rather than colonies) to form the Federation of Malaya. On independence on 31 August 1957, British protected persons (BPP) from the Malay states lost their BPP status. However, as a result of representations made by the Straits Chinese, known as the \"Queen's Chinese\", it was agreed by the Governments of the United Kingdom and Malaya that no provision should be made for the withdrawal of Citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies (CUKC) status from the inhabitants of Penang and Malacca, who would consequently be allowed to remain CUKCs as well as citizens of Malaya.\n\nOn 16 September 1963, the colonies of North Borneo, Sarawak and Singapore were joined with Malaya to form Malaysia (Singapore subsequently left Malaysia in 1965). CUKC was withdrawn from those acquiring Malaysian citizenship in 1963, but this did not affect existing citizens of the Federation.\n\nHence, persons connected with Penang and Malacca prior to 31 August 1957, together with those born before 1983 in legitimate descent to fathers so connected, form the largest group of British Overseas citizens (estimated at over 1 million). Most also hold Malaysian citizenship.\n\nAs of April 2017, Malaysian citizens had an overall score of 156 on the Global Passport Power Rank, ranking the Malaysian passport 4th in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21992766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21992766", "title": "Mike Campbell (Pvt) Ltd v Zimbabwe", "text": "Mike Campbell (Pvt) Ltd v Zimbabwe\n\nMike Campbell (Pvt) Ltd et al. v. Republic of Zimbabwe is a case decided by the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Tribunal (hereinafter \"the Tribunal\"). The Tribunal held that the Zimbabwean government violated the organisation's treaty by denying access to the courts and engaging in racial discrimination against white farmers whose lands had been confiscated under the land reform program in Zimbabwe.\n\nLand reform in Zimbabwe began after the signing of the Lancaster House Agreement in 1979 in an effort to more equitably distribute land between the historically disenfranchised blacks and the minority whites. Government-orchestrated land invasions began in February 2000. The Zimbabwean government formally announced a \"fast track\" resettlement program in July 2000, stating that it would acquire more than 3,000 farms for redistribution.\n\nDuring the early 1970s Campbell, a South African Army captain, had been involved in the Rhodesian Bush War that pitted Rhodesia's mostly white government—50 of the 66 parliamentary seats were reserved for whites—against black nationalist guerrillas. He moved to Mount Carmel farm in 1974. He added a neighbouring plot of land in 1980, following Zimbabwean independence. As well as farming, Campbell set up an extensive nature reserve on the property, replete with giraffes, impala and other indigenous animals. He also created the Biri River Safari Lodge, which became a popular tourist attraction.\n\nCampbell purchased Mount Carmel from himself after independence. (The full title was vested in 1999, when the Zimbabwean government declared no interest in the land.) In July 2001, amid large-scale land invasions by \"war veterans\", Campbell received a government notice to acquire Mount Carmel in the district of Chegutu, but the notice was declared invalid by the High Court. In July 2004, a new notice of intent to acquire Mount Carmel was published in the official Government Gazette, but no acquisition notice was actually issued. However, two months later, according to court filings, \"persons purported to occupy the farm on behalf of Zanu PF spokesman Nathan Shamuyarira, claiming the former minister had been allocated the farm.\" After three more preliminary notices to take the farm were published in 2004, Campbell applied to the High Court for a protection order.\n\nAmendment 17 was added to Zimbabwe's constitution on 14 September 2005 to vest ownership of certain categories of land on the Zimbabwean government and to eliminate the courts' jurisdiction to hear any challenge to the land acquisitions. Campbell initiated proceedings in court on 15 May 2006, challenging the validity of Amendment 17. In December 2006 the Gazetted Land (Consequential Provisions) Act passed into law, requiring all farmers whose land was compulsorily acquired by the government and who were not in possession of an official offer letter, permit, or lease, to cease to occupy, hold, or use that land within 45 days and to vacate their homes within 90 days. On 11 October 2007, before the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe had delivered its judgment in the case, Campbell filed an application with the SADC Tribunal challenging the acquisition by the Zimbabwean government. Subsequently, 77 other persons joined as parties in the proceedings against the government of Zimbabwe.\n\nMike Campbell, his wife Angela, and their son-in-law Ben Freeth were kidnapped, taken to an indoctrination camp and beaten by thugs on 29 June 2008. Campbell died on 6 April 2011; his family stated he died from complications of the 2008 beating.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Zimbabwe issued a decision in the case on 22 January 2008, dismissing Campbell's challenge. The Court held that: (1) race was not an issue in the case, because neither the relevant provisions of Section 16B of the Constitution nor the land acquisitions made reference to race or color; (2) the Government of Zimbabwe has an inherent right to compulsorily acquire property, and (3) the legislature has full power to change the Constitution. The Court also stated that an \"application to a court of law to challenge a lawful acquisition would in effect be an abuse of the right to protection of law.\"\n\nThe Tribunal was established by the SADC treaty. The SADC has been in existence since 1980, when it was formed as a loose alliance of nine majority-ruled States in Southern Africa known as the Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC), with the main aim of co-ordinating development projects to lessen economic dependence on the then apartheid South Africa. The Tribunal ensures adherence to, and the proper interpretation of, the provisions of the Treaty and the subsidiary instruments made under it, and adjudicates upon disputes referred to it.\n\nThe Tribunal concluded that it had jurisdiction to hear the case because the dispute concerned \"human rights, democracy and the rule of law\", which are binding principles for members of the SADC.\n\n17 December 2007\nThe Tribunal granted an interim measure ordering the government of Zimbabwe to take no steps, directly or indirectly, to evict Campbell from the farm or interfere with his use of the land.\n\n28 November 2008\nThe Tribunal's decision on this date addressed four main issues: (1) Whether the Tribunal had jurisdiction to hear the case; (2) whether the plaintiffs had been denied access to domestic courts in violation of the SADC Treaty; (3) whether the Zimbabwean government had discriminated against the plaintiffs on the basis of race, and (4) whether the plaintiffs were entitled to compensation. (1) The Tribunal held that it had jurisdiction to hear the case, because Amendment 17 had eliminated the plaintiffs' access to the domestic courts, and the plaintiffs were therefore entitled to seek remedy before the Tribunal. (2) The Tribunal found that the plaintiffs had been deprived of their right to a fair hearing before being deprived of their rights. (3) On the racial discrimination issue, the Tribunal held that the actions of the Zimbabwean government constituted indirect or \"de facto\" discrimination because implementation of Amendment 17 affected white farmers only. (4) Finally, the Tribunal held that the plaintiffs were entitled to compensation for the expropriation of their lands.\n\n5 June 2009\nAfter Campbell and another applicant, Richard Thomas Etheredge, filed a new application to declare the Government of Zimbabwe in contempt, the Tribunal held that the Government of Zimbabwe had failed to comply with the Tribunal's previous decision. The Tribunal stated that it would report its finding to the Summit of the SADC.\n\nNon-enforcement of the Tribunal's judgment \nMike Campbell applied to register the Tribunal's judgment of 28 November 2008 in the High Court on 23 December 2008, but the application was not accepted with no reasons given. Over a hundred prosecutions of white farmers continue because they remain on their lands. The High Court issued orders in April 2009 to evict the invaders on Mount Carmel, but nothing was done by the police to enforce the orders. No mention of the Tribunal's decision was made at the SADC's summit in early September 2009.\n\nThreats, intimidation and fires \nAfter February 2009, Campbell and Freeth's families received threats from invaders. Campbell and his wife were eventually forced from their home and Mount Carmel was invaded. Ben Freeth's and Mike Campbell's homesteads were destroyed in fires on 30 August 2009 and 2 September 2009, respectively.\n\nZimbabwe denies the legitimacy of the Tribunal \nZimbabwe's Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa wrote to the Tribunal to inform of Zimbabwe's withdrawal from the Tribunal in a letter written on 7 August 2009, arguing that it did not have jurisdiction over Zimbabwe because the Tribunal's Protocol has not yet been ratified by two-thirds of the total members of the SADC, as required by the organisation's treaty, and stated that Zimbabwe would no longer be bound by any of the Tribunal's past or future judgments.\n\nDecision by the High Court not to register the SADC Tribunal's judgement in Zimbabwe \nJudge Patel of the High Court issued a decision on 26 January 2010 in which he held that the SADC Tribunal was properly constituted and had jurisdiction to hear Campbell's case, but its decision could not be registered for purposes of enforcement. Judge Patel's decision relied on two main reasons. First, the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe had confirmed the constitutionality of the land reform program, and registering the SADC Tribunal's judgment in Zimbabwe would challenge the Supreme Court's decision and undermine its authority; this would be contrary to public policy. Second, if the Zimbabwean government complied with the SADC Tribunal's decision, it would contravene section 16B of the Constitution (introduced by Amendment 17 in 2005, see above); this could not be allowed because the Constitution is the supreme law of Zimbabwe.\n\nThe SADC Summit orders a review of the role, functions and terms of the SADC Tribunal \nOn 17 August 2010 the Summit of the SADC heads of state and government decided \"that a review of the role functions and terms [sic] of reference of the SADC Tribunal should be undertaken and concluded within 6 months.\" According to an opinion submitted by a group of legal and human rights organisations, the SADC Summit effectively suspended the Tribunal, as it failed to renew the tenure of five judges and failed to appoint new ones, leaving the Tribunal improperly constituted in violation of the Tribunal's Protocol; this decision may have been precipitated by Zimbabwe's challenge to the legality of the Tribunal after the Tribunal decided against Zimbabwe in cases concerning land disputes.\n\nIn a draft reportcommissioned by the SADC and dated 14 February 2011, WTI Advisors (an affiliate of the World Trade Institute) recommended, among other things, the following: SADC Member States should ensure that they give the force of law to SADC law by amending national law; Member States should consider amending the SADC Treaty to state that SADC law is supreme over national law, including constitutional law; the Tribunal should be given power to determine its own Rules of Procedure; the Tribunal's Protocol should be amended to provide that membership and rights of Member States may be suspended, with the Summit taking account of the possible consequences of suspension; the Tribunal should be able to order remedies (including fines) for non-compliance.\n\nLegal action against heads of State \nIn April 2011 Mike Campbell, his company Mike Campbell (Pvt) Ltd, and another farmer, Luke Tembani, applied to the courts for an order against the 'Summit of the Heads of State or Government of SADC' and the presidents of 15 member countries, the Council of Ministers of SADC, and the Republic of Zimbabwe, demanding that \"the [SADC] Tribunal continues to function in all respects as established by Article 16 of the Treaty\".\n\nCompensation battle in South Africa \nOn 6 June 2011, the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, South Africa cleared the way for seized Zimbabwean government assets in Cape Town to be sold by auction to compensate 3 Zimbabwean farmers, including the late Mike Campbell. It is thought to be the first ruling in international legal history that a country's assets should be sold to provide compensation for human rights violations. The Zimbabwean government appealed the High Court's decision, but both the Supreme Court (in September 2012) and the Constitutional Court of South Africa (in June 2013) dismissed the appeal. \n\nSADC Tribunal suspended \nOn 20 May 2011, an Extraordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government of SADC, held in Namibia, decided not to reappoint or replace SADC Tribunal members, effectively suspending the tribunal.\n\nMike Campbell died on 6 April 2011, aged 78. His family stated his death was due to the consequences of having been tortured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "847074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847074", "title": "Minimum harmonisation", "text": "Minimum harmonisation\n\nMinimum harmonisation is a term used in European Union law.\n\nIf a piece of law (usually a directive, but also a regulation on occasion), is described as minimum harmonisation, that means that it sets a threshold which national legislation must meet. However, national law may exceed the terms of the legislation if desired. \n\nIt is usually easier to reach agreement on legislation drafted on this basis, as it allows existing national legislation on issues such as consumer protection or the environment to remain in place. Therefore, most European legislation has been implemented on this basis. In more recent years, however, the burden of EC law has led to calls for deregulation, and accusations that some member states still indulge in protectionism when implementing directives into national law through gold-plating. Therefore, a growing minority of EU law contains maximum harmonisation provisions.\n\nIt is quite common for a directive or recommendation to consist of a mixture of maximum harmonisation and minimum harmonisation clauses.\n"}
{"id": "4117152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4117152", "title": "Mykolas Burokevičius", "text": "Mykolas Burokevičius\n\nMykolas Burokevičius (October 7, 1927 – January 20, 2016) was a communist political leader in Lithuania. After the Communist Party of Lithuania separated from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), he established alternative pro-CPSU Communist Party of Lithuania in early 1990, and led it as the First Secretary of Central Committee until its ban in 1991. He was the only Lithuanian to serve in the Politburo of the CPSU Central Committee, and did so from 1990 until its ban in 1991.\n\nHe was born in Alytus, Lithuania in 1927. In 1942, a young Burokevičius was employed as a carpenter and a machinist at a plant in Udmurtia. In 1944 he became a member of the Lithuanian Communist Party where he worked as a chief of department and instructor. He graduated from the Vilnius Pedagogical Institute (now the Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences) in 1955 and the Lithuanian Academy of Sciences in 1963.\n\nIn 1963 he became a research fellow at the Institute of the History of the Party of the Central Committee of the Lithuanian Communist Party. He died in Vilnius, Lithuania in 2016, aged 88.\n\nAfter the Communist Party of Lithuania voted to separate from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in December 1989, he became the Secretary General of the Moscow-backed communist party and on March 4, 1990 he gained the title of the First Secretary.\n\nHis party's political programme stated that one of its goals was to maintain Lithuania as part of the USSR. Seven members of Burokevičius' party were elected during the Supreme Council of Lithuania elections on 24 February 1990. The Supreme Council declared reinstantment of Lithuania's independence during its first session in March.\n\nOn 11 January 1991 the pro-CPSU CPL sent an ultimatum to the Government of Lithuania, ordering it to comply with USSR President Mikhail Gorbachev's public requirement that the Supreme Council would immediately reinstate the legal force of the USSR and Lithuanian SSR Constitutions. The requirement was voiced one day earlier. The party added that failing that it might create the \"Lithuanian National Rescue Committee\" (), \"which would take care of the matters of the future of the LSSR\" - and eventually did so. During its lifetime, the party established several organizations meant to be alternative ministries.\n\nThe Soviet Army assault on the Vilnius TV tower and station on January 13, 1991 followed, during which 14 people were killed. During the period of 11 to 19 January 1991, the pro-CPSU party also made five more public declarations urging the forceful overthrow of the Government and other authorities of independent Lithuania. Burokevičius took part preparing those declarations.\n\nBurokevičius was indicted by Lithuanian prosecutors as a suspect in a criminal with regard to the January Events case on 22 August 1991. He was eventually arrested on January 15, 1994 in Belarus (on Lithuanian orders). Burokevičius and five other members of the Lithuanian Communist Party were tried for their involvement in the January Events from October 1996 to August 1999. In August 1999, he was sentenced in Vilnius to 12 years' imprisonment for organizing murders and grievous bodily harm and also for establishing organizations which intended to overthrow the state. In early 2000, President Valdas Adamkus proposed the chief of colony to prepare documents that granted Burokevičius eligibility for pardon. Burokevičius refused this request, pleading innocent and stating that he was not guilty in his actions. He finished the sentence and was released on January 13, 2006.\n\nOn January 5, 2006, the European Court of Human Rights declared admissible Burokevičius' case against Lithuania on three counts of possible Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms violations and joined it with two other cases against Lithuania for its January Events lawsuits (Juozas Kuolelis and Leonas Bartoševičius). Burokevičius also sought compensation.\n\nSpecifically, the court examined whether Lithuania violated these articles of the convention:\n\n\nIn 2008, the Court delivered judgment deciding that no violations took place.\n"}
{"id": "2390360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2390360", "title": "National Depository Centre", "text": "National Depository Centre\n\nA National Depository Centre is a public library in India which receives a copy of all books, newspapers and periodicals published in the country with ISBN and ISSN as the case may be. There are four centres:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2994809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994809", "title": "Pacific Reporter", "text": "Pacific Reporter\n\nThe Pacific Reporter, \"Pacific Reporter Second\", and \"Pacific Reporter Third\" are United States regional case law reporters. It is part of the National Reporter System created by John B. West for West Publishing Company, which is now part of Thomson West.\n\nThe \"Pacific Reporter\" contains published appellate court case decisions for:\n\nWhen cited, the \"Pacific Reporter\", \"Pacific Reporter Second\", and \"Pacific Reporter Third\" are abbreviated \"P.\", \"P.2d\", and \"P.3d\", respectively.\n\nThe first \"Pacific Reporter\" series only had 300 volumes, and spanned from January 1883 to June 1931 (1 P. 1 to 300 P. 1119). The second series, with 999 volumes, covered June 1931 to March 2000 (1 P.2d 1 to 999 P.2d 1310). The third series began in May 2000 with 1 P.3d 1.\n"}
{"id": "28336226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28336226", "title": "Papal Arbitration", "text": "Papal Arbitration\n\nPapal Arbitration was a form of international arbitration used between warring Roman Catholic countries where the Pope tried to bring both sides to peace. A recent example was the Papal mediation in the Beagle conflict between Argentina and Chile.\n"}
{"id": "1549377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549377", "title": "Physician–patient privilege", "text": "Physician–patient privilege\n\nPhysician–patient privilege is a legal concept, related to medical confidentiality, that protects communications between a patient and his or her doctor from being used against the patient in court. It is a part of the rules of evidence in many common law jurisdictions. Almost every jurisdiction that recognizes physician–patient privilege not to testify in court, either by statute or through case law, limits the privilege to knowledge acquired during the course of providing medical services. In some jurisdictions, conversations between a patient and physician may be privileged in both criminal and civil courts.\n\nThe privilege may cover the situation where a patient confesses to a psychiatrist that he or she committed a particular crime. It may also cover normal inquiries regarding matters such as injuries that may result in civil action. For example, any defendant that the patient may be suing at the time cannot ask the doctor if the patient ever expressed the belief that his or her condition had improved. However, the rule generally does not apply to confidences shared with physicians when they are not serving in the role of medical providers.\n\nThe rationale behind the rule is that a level of trust must exist between a physician and the patient so that the physician can properly treat the patient. If the patient were fearful of telling the truth to the physician because he or she believed the physician would report such behavior to the authorities, the treatment process could be rendered far more difficult, or the physician could make an incorrect diagnosis.\n\nFor example, a below-age of consent patient came to a doctor with a sexually transmitted disease. The doctor is usually required to obtain a list of the patient's sexual contacts to inform them that they need treatment. This is an important health concern. However, the patient may be reluctant to divulge the names of his/her older sexual partners, for fear that they will be charged with statutory rape. In some jurisdictions, the doctor cannot be forced to reveal the information revealed by his patient to anyone except to particular organizations, as specified by law, and they too are required to keep that information confidential. If, in the case, the police become aware of such information, they are not allowed to use it in court as proof of the sexual conduct, except as provided by express intent of the legislative body and formalized into law.\n\nThe law in Ontario, Canada, requires that physicians report patients who, in the opinion of the physician, may be unfit to drive for medical reasons as per Section 203 of the Highway Traffic Act (Ontario).\n\nThe law in New Hampshire places physician–patient communications on the same basis as attorney–client communications, except in cases where law enforcement officers seek blood or urine test samples and test results taken from a patient who is being investigated for driving while intoxicated.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Rules of Evidence do not recognize doctor–patient privilege.\n\nAt the state level, the extent of the privilege varies depending on the law of the applicable jurisdiction. For example, in Texas there is only a limited physician–patient privilege in criminal proceedings, and the privilege is limited in civil cases as well.\n\nIn some Australian States a privilege exists for\" \"communication made by a person in confidence to another person ... in the course of a relationship in which the confidant was acting in a professional capacity\".\" This is often interpreted as being between a health professional and their patient.\n\nIn some jurisdictions in Australia privilege may also extend to lawyers, some Victims journalists (Shield Laws), and priests It may also be invoked in a Public interest, or Settlement Negotiations may also be privileged.\n\n"}
{"id": "37312835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312835", "title": "Relfo Ltd v Varsani", "text": "Relfo Ltd v Varsani\n\nRelfo Ltd (in liq) v Varsani [2014] EWCA Civ 360 is an English unjust enrichment law case, concerning to what extent enrichment of the defendant must be at the expense of the claimant.\n\nThe liquidator of Relfo Ltd sued Varsani, a friend of the former director Mr Gorecia, who got money from the company. HMRC had sued Relfo Ltd for outstanding tax, whereupon Relfo Ltd put the £500,000 it had in its bank account to pay $890,050 into a Latvian account of Mirren Ltd, and then coincidentally an entity called Intertrade paid $878,469 from a Lithuanian bank account to Varsani. Shortly after Mr Varsani gave Mr Gorecia $100,000 The liquidator argued this was all connected, and the $100,000 was Mr Gorecia’s reward for diverting Relfo’s funds for Varsani’s benefit. Therefore, Relfo Ltd retained a title in equity over the funds that Mr Varsani held, that Varsani was on notice of the facts at all times and so was a constructive trustee, and that even if tracing was not possible the payments were connected enough to base an unjust enrichment claim.\n\nSales J held the liquidator could recover the money. A proprietary argument against Varsani failed because the funds were dissipated and the liquidator had not applied for an order (which could have been done) to disclose where the funds went, which would be necessary for a tracing exercise. However, Varsani was a knowing recipient, it was a fair inference that all the transactions were linked, there was no reason for the Intertrade payment. His conscience would be affected as a constructive trustee because it was high probable that Gorecia had explained Mr Varsani the whole arrangement, cf \"Re Montagu’s ST\" [1987] Ch 264. He was liable to account for the whole Intertrade payment without any reduction for the $100,000 transferred. And, even if the Intertrade payment could not be traced from the payment between Relfo Ltd and Mirren Ltd, Varsani was enriched at Relfo’s expense, as the payments were made in breach of Mr Gorecia’s fiduciary duty, without authority and established an in personam claim against Mr Varsani. Liability was strict and did not depend on knowledge or conscience. Mr Varsani had given no defence, and so he received the money as a volunteer.\n\nThe Court of Appeal held that the liquidator of Relfo Ltd was entitled to be repaid money that had ended up in Versani’s hands because the sums were causally linked through various transactions.\n\nArden LJ held that Sales J was right to draw the inference that Relfo Ltd’s money passed into Intertrade’s account, and this made the source of money paid to Varsani, as in El-Ajou, based on the amounts and the timing of the payment to Mirren and the Intertrade payment, because the amount Varsani received was the same as the Relfo Ltd to Mirren payment, because no consideration was given, and because this is what Gorecia had intended. An intention alone would not be enough under the tracing rules, but could be relevant for drawing an inference. What mattered was that value was exchanged, in a chain of substitutes. Payments did not need to occur in chronological or any other particular order. Although not necessary, in a claim for unjust enrichment, it did not matter that Varsani had not received the Intertrade payment directly from Relfo Ltd. In substance and economic reality Varsani had been a direct recipient. Arden LJ said the following.\n\nGloster LJ concurred.\n\nFloyd LJ concurred, and said the following.\n"}
{"id": "35035796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35035796", "title": "Rudolf Callmann", "text": "Rudolf Callmann\n\nRudolf Callmann (29 September 1892 – 12 March 1976) was a German American legal scholar. He was preeminent in the field of German and American competition law.\n\nBorn in Cologne into a wealthy Jewish family, Callmann earned a doctorate in law from the University of Freiburg in 1919. His studies had been interrupted by frontline service in World War I. In 1923, he entered his father's law firm in Cologne, and established himself as a leading authority on unfair competition and antitrust law. As a World War I veteran he was allowed to practice even after the Machtergreifung in 1933, but in 1936 decided to emigrate to the United States. He was offered a research fellowship at Harvard Law School, where he worked with Zechariah Chafee, while getting accustomed to American common law, and in 1939 he passed the bar exam. Between 1939 and 1945 he completed the American edition of his magnum opus on unfair competition, now (in revised edition) known as \"Callmann on Unfair Competition, Trademarks, and Monopolies\".\n\nIn 1949, Callmann founded the boutique law firm Greene, Callmann & Durr in New York City, along with Orville N. Greene (1908–1997) and Frank L. Durr (1904–1990), where he practiced until 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "16758572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16758572", "title": "Sakae Menda", "text": "Sakae Menda\n\nOn December 30, 1948, an unknown killer broke into the house of a 76-year-old Buddhist priest and his 52-year-old wife in Kumamoto Prefecture on Kyushu and murdered them using an axe and a knife. The killer also wounded their two young daughters, aged 12 and 14. During the same period, Sakae Menda, a poor and uneducated farmhand, was arrested on the charge of stealing rice.\n\nPolice held Menda for three weeks, without allowing him access to a lawyer, until they extracted a confession. During interrogation, he was starved of food, water and sleep, and beaten with bamboo sticks while being suspended upside down from a ceiling. The police eventually coerced Menda into signing a written statement. He was tried and was convicted of double homicide despite pleading innocent. On March 23, 1950, Judge Haruo Kinoshita sentenced him to death. The Supreme Court of Japan upheld his sentence on December 25, 1951. A lawyer only came to see Menda once before the trial. The lawyer, a Buddhist monk, came to pray for him, but offered no professional expertise to help him fight the charges, but instead told Menda to accept his fate. His trial did not include any physical evidence or the witness accounts that proved Menda had an alibi. He was wrongly convicted of murder and robbery based on the extorted confession.\n\nMenda was incarcerated at the Fukuoka Detention Center in solitary confinement. He was held in a 5 square meter unheated cell that was lit day and night and monitored constantly.\n\nUnder the Japanese 1907 penal code, death row inmates, unless they are involved in legal appeals, could be taken away for execution at prison gallows at any time, with little notice. Executions in Japan are typically held in secret, and prisoners are either not warned of their impending execution or are notified only on the morning of the day of the execution. Their families are informed later so they can collect the corpse for cremation.\n\nIn prison, Menda converted to Christianity and began reading the Bible and transcribing books into Braille.\n\nMenda submitted six petitions for retrial although initially he did not have access to a lawyer. The Fukuoka District High Court ruled on the reopening of the case in 1979.\n\nThe retrial began on September 27, 1979. The retrial allowed records that proved his alibi to be submitted, as well as a statement from a witness saying that she had lied under duress.\n\nOn July 15, 1983, after 80 judges had been involved, the court delivered the verdict of an acquittal based on determination that he had falsely confessed and that the prosecution had failed to disclose exculpatory evidence to Menda's lawyers prior to his trial. The court acknowledged that the police had concealed his alibi showing he was not at the scene of the crime. Menda was released after 34 years on death row at the age of 54. He was the first person in Japan’s history to be released from death row.\n\nThe government gave Menda 7000 yen for every day he was in prison: 90 million yen in total (approximately 2009 USD $990,540). He donated half of that to a group campaigning to abolish the death penalty. Menda has since become a death-penalty abolitionist. Japan is the only member of the Group of Seven industrialised nations other than the United States to retain capital punishment. Menda spoke at the 2007 World Congress against the death penalty, and has lobbied delegates of the United Nations to globally abolish capital punishment, describing the psychological and dehumanising effects that he encountered while on death row. The scandal in the aftermath of Menda's release prompted reform and aided a reintroduction of jury trials in Japan, as well as showing the Japanese legal system's over-reliance on conviction by means of confession.\n\nMenda had difficulty claiming his state pension as he had been unable to sign up during his time in prison.\n\nHe has continually criticised Japanese execution policy since his release.\n\nA documentary movie, \"Menda Sakae: Gokuchu no Sei\" (\"Sakae Menda: A Life in Prison\"), detailing Sakae's life on death row, was released in 1998. In 2004, Menda released a book, \"Gokuchu noto\" (\"Prison Notes\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25906138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25906138", "title": "Spoofing (anti-piracy measure)", "text": "Spoofing (anti-piracy measure)\n\nSpoofing, or decoying, is the practice of inundating online networks with bogus or incomplete files of the same name in an effort to reduce copyright infringement on file sharing networks. Cary Sherman, president of the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), calls spoofing \"an appropriate response to the problem of peer-to-peer piracy,\" and \"a self-help measure that is completely lawful.\"\n\nTorrent poisoning\n"}
{"id": "5546044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5546044", "title": "Tangible property", "text": "Tangible property\n\nTangible property in law is, literally, anything which can be touched, and includes both real property and personal property (or moveable property), and stands in distinction to intangible property.\n\nIn English law and some Commonwealth legal systems, items of tangible property are referred to as \"choses in possession\" (or a \"chose in possession\" in the singular). However, some property, despite being physical in nature, is classified in many legal systems as intangible property rather than tangible property because the rights associated with the physical item are of far greater significance than the physical properties. Principally, these are documentary intangibles. For example, a promissory note is a piece of paper that can be touched, but the real significance is not the physical paper, but the legal rights which the paper confers, and hence the promissory note is defined by the legal debt rather than the physical attributes.\n\nA unique category of property is money, which in some legal systems is treated as tangible property and in others as intangible property. Whilst most countries legal tender is expressed in the form of intangible property (\"The Treasury of Country X hereby promises to pay to the bearer on demand...\"), in practice banknotes are now rarely ever redeemed in any country, which has led to banknotes and coins being classified as tangible property in most modern legal systems.\n"}
{"id": "29401184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29401184", "title": "Theodore Plucknett", "text": "Theodore Plucknett\n\nTheodore Frank Thomas Plucknett (2 January 1897 – 14 February 1965) was a British legal historian who was the first ever chair of legal history at the London School of Economics.\n\nPlucknett was born on 2 January 1897 in Bristol. Plucknett completed his early education at Alderman Newton's School in Leicester and then Bacup and Rawstenstall school in Newchurch, Lancashire. He completed his degree in History at London University and graduated with second class honours. He later completed his masters at University College London before his twenty-first birthday. He was also awarded the Alexander prize of the Royal Historical Society. For his masters Plucknett's speciality was the fifteenth-century council; he would later go on to write his PhD thesis on \"Statutes and their Interpretation in the First Half of the Fourteenth Century\". He received his PhD from Emmanuel College, Cambridge and studied under the tutorship of H. D. Hazeltine.\n\nWith Plucknett's PhD came an LLB degree, which helped him get into Harvard Law School. Whilst studying at Harvard he took no courses, and instead only studied. He arrived at the school as a student in 1920 and by 1923 was an instructor. By 1926 he had graduated to an assistant professor; a position he held until 1931.\n\nPlucknett then left Harvard for the London School of Economics after he received a recommendation from Harold Laski, who had been impressed by Plucknett's recent publication, \"Concise History of the Common Law\". The book had been dictated and edited in a matter of weeks. When Plucknett arrived at the London School of Economics, he became the first ever holder of the school's chair of legal history. He was to remain in that position until his retirement in 1963. He succeeded William Holdsworth as Literary Director of the Selden Society and was followed by S. F. C. Milsom.\n\nThough Plucknett remained at the London School of Economics, he also held the presidency of the Royal Historical Society from 1948 to 1952, and the presidency of the Society of Public Teachers of Law from 1953 to 1954. In 1950 Plucknett was awarded a fellowship at University College London and in 1950 he was made an honorary fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He also received honorary degrees from both Glasgow University, Birmingham University and Cambridge.\n\nIn later life colleagues would describe Plucknett as 'distant'. He maintained the history of law had nothing to do with its practical application and was quoted as saying that \"It is still too often said that English law can only be understood historically. Now English law may be bad, but is it really as bad as that?\"\n\nPlucknett officially retired from teaching in 1963 due to poor health and died at his home in Crescent Road, Wimbledon, London SW19 on 14 February 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "16567813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16567813", "title": "Treaty of Lisbon (1864)", "text": "Treaty of Lisbon (1864)\n\nTreaty of Lisbon is a treaty on boundaries between Spain and Portugal from the mouth of the Minho River to the junction of the Caia River with the Guadiana River. Signed at Lisbon on 29 September 1864. This abolished the Couto Misto microstate.\n\nThe final act of approving annexes to the treaty was signed at Lisbon on 4 November 1866.\n\n"}
{"id": "29737118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29737118", "title": "United States v. Morlang", "text": "United States v. Morlang\n\nUnited States v. Morlang, 531 F.2d 183 (4th Cir. 1975), was a case decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit that held that calling a witness knowing that unfavorable testimony will be given is improper when it allows the proponent to bring in substantive evidence under the guise of witness impeachment.\n\nThe defendant Morlang was on trial for a conspiracy to bribe the director of the Federal Housing Administration to approve the Hanna Drive development in Charleston, West Virginia. The prosecutor called Morlang's co-conspirator Wilmoth to the stand to testify that Morlang had admitted the scheme to him. Before trial, Wilmoth told the prosecutor that he would deny that Morlang made such an admission. During the trial, Wilmoth did deny hearing an admission from Morlang. The prosecutor called Crist, Wilmoth's cellmate, to testify that Wilmoth told him about an admission about the scheme from Morlang. Morland was convicted and appealed to the Fourth Circuit.\n\nThe Fourth Circuit reversed Morlang's conviction in an opinion by Judge Widener. Even though calling Crist was an ostensibly permissible way to impeach the credibility of Wilmoth, the court understood the tactic as a way to present otherwise inadmissible hearsay to the jury. Because the prosecutor knew that Wilmoth planned to only give adverse testimony, the court reasoned that the prosecution's only reason to call him was to impeach him with the statement about Morlang's admission. The court noted that it is often difficult for juries to distinguish between using a statement only to undermine the credibility of a witness and using the statement to prove what it says. The court held that impeaching Wilmoth was simply a tactic to get Morlang's admission in front of the jury, and it would be difficult for the jury to ignore its substantive value.\n\nIn his dissent, Judge Butzner noted that the prosecutor had other reasons for calling Wilmoth to the stand, like to corroborate other aspects of the crime. Butzner noted that proponents are no longer thought to vouch for the complete credibility of their witnesses. Because the prosecutor had some good faith reasons to call Wilmoth to the stand, Butzner would affirm the conviction.\n\nThe decision in \"Morlang\" has been adopted as a standard for identifying abuse of Federal Rules of Evidence Rule 607, which allows the party calling a witness to impeach that witness's credibility. The \"Morlang\" standard was followed by the D.C. Circuit in the case \"United States v. Johnson\" and by the Ninth Circuit in the case \"United States v. Gomez-Gallardo\".\n\n\"Morlang\" has been limited in some circuits to apply only in cases of bad faith. In cases where the proponent has a good faith belief that the witness will at least give some favorable testimony, abuse of FRE 607 has not been found.\n"}
{"id": "31899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31899", "title": "Universal Declaration of Human Rights", "text": "Universal Declaration of Human Rights\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a historic document that was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly at its third session on 10 December 1948 as Resolution 217 at the Palais de Chaillot in Paris, France. Of the then 58 members of the United Nations, 48 voted in favor, none against, eight abstained, and two did not vote.\n\nThe Declaration consists of 30 articles affirming an individual's rights which, although not legally binding in themselves, have been elaborated in subsequent international treaties, economic transfers, regional human rights instruments, national constitutions, and other laws. The Declaration was the first step in the process of formulating the International Bill of Human Rights, which was completed in 1966, and came into force in 1976, after a sufficient number of countries had ratified them.\n\nSome legal scholars have argued that because countries have constantly invoked the Declaration for more than 50 years, it has become binding as a part of customary international law. However, in the United States, the Supreme Court in \"Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain\" (2004), concluded that the Declaration \"does not of its own force impose obligations as a matter of international law.\" Courts of other countries have also concluded that the Declaration is not in and of itself part of domestic law.\n\nThe underlying structure of the Universal Declaration was introduced in its second draft, which was prepared by René Cassin. Cassin worked from a first draft, which was prepared by John Peters Humphrey. The structure was influenced by the \"Code Napoléon\", including a preamble and introductory general principles. Cassin compared the Declaration to the portico of a Greek temple, with a foundation, steps, four columns, and a pediment.\n\nThe Declaration consists of a preamble and thirty articles:\n\nThese articles are concerned with the duty of the individual to society and the prohibition of use of rights in contravention of the purposes of the United Nations Organisation.\n\nDuring World War II, the Allies adopted the Four Freedoms—freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom from fear, and freedom from want—as their basic war aims. The United Nations Charter \"reaffirmed faith in fundamental human rights, and dignity and worth of the human person\" and committed all member states to promote \"universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion\".\n\nWhen the atrocities committed by Nazi Germany became fully apparent after World War II, the consensus within the world community was that the United Nations Charter did not sufficiently define the rights to which it referred. A universal declaration that specified the rights of individuals was necessary to give effect to the Charter's provisions on human rights.\n\nIn June 1946, the UN Economic and Social Council established the Commission on Human Rights, comprising 18 members from various nationalities and political backgrounds. The Commission, a standing body of the United Nations, was constituted to undertake the work of preparing what was initially conceived as an International Bill of Rights.\n\nThe Commission established a special Universal Declaration of Human Rights Drafting Committee, chaired by Eleanor Roosevelt, to write the articles of the Declaration. The Committee met in two sessions over the course of two years.\n\nCanadian John Peters Humphrey, Director of the Division of Human Rights within the United Nations Secretariat, was called upon by the United Nations Secretary-General to work on the project and became the Declaration's principal drafter. At the time, Humphrey was newly appointed as Director of the Division of Human Rights within the United Nations Secretariat.\n\nOther well-known members of the drafting committee included René Cassin of France, Charles Malik of Lebanon, and P. C. Chang of the Republic of China. Humphrey provided the initial draft that became the working text of the Commission.\n\nAccording to Allan Carlson, the Declaration's pro-family phrases were the result of the Christian Democratic movement's influence on Cassin and Malik.\n\nOnce the Committee finished its work in May 1948, the draft was further discussed by the Commission on Human Rights, the Economic and Social Council, the Third Committee of the General Assembly before being put to vote in December 1948. During these discussions many amendments and propositions were made by UN Member States.\n\nBritish representatives were extremely frustrated that the proposal had moral but no legal obligation. (It was not until 1976 that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights came into force, giving a legal status to most of the Declaration.)\n\nThe Universal Declaration was adopted by the General Assembly as Resolution 217 on 10 December 1948. Of the then 58 members of the United Nations, 48 voted in favour, none against, eight abstained and Honduras and Yemen failed to vote or abstain.\n\nThe meeting record provides firsthand insight into the debate. South Africa's position can be seen as an attempt to protect its system of apartheid, which clearly violated several articles in the Declaration. The Saudi Arabian delegation's abstention was prompted primarily by two of the Declaration's articles: Article 18, which states that everyone has the right \"to change his religion or belief\"; and Article 16, on equal marriage rights. The six communist countries abstentions centred around the view that the Declaration did not go far enough in condemning fascism and Nazism. Eleanor Roosevelt attributed the abstention of Soviet bloc countries to Article 13, which provided the right of citizens to leave their countries.\n\nThe 48 countries that voted in favour of the Declaration are:\n\n\nEight countries abstained:\nTwo countries did not vote:\nOther countries only gained sovereignty and joined the United Nations later, which explains the relatively small number of states entitled to the historical vote, and in no way reflects opposition to the universal principles.\n\nThe Declaration of Human Rights Day is commemorated every year on December 10, the anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration, and is known as Human Rights Day or International Human Rights Day. The commemoration is observed by individuals, community and religious groups, human rights organizations, parliaments, governments, and the United Nations. Decadal commemorations are often accompanied by campaigns to promote awareness of the Declaration and human rights. 2008 marked the 60th anniversary of the Declaration, and was accompanied by year-long activities around the theme \"Dignity and justice for all of us\".\n\nIn 1948, the UN Resolution A/RES/217(III)[A] adopted the Declaration on a bilingual document in English and French, and official translations in Chinese, Russian and Spanish. In 2009, the \"Guinness Book of Records\" described the Declaration as the world's \"Most Translated Document\" (370 different languages and dialects). The Unicode Consortium stores 431 of the 503 official translations available at the OHCHR ().\n\nIn its preamble, governments commit themselves and their people to progressive measures that secure the universal and effective recognition and observance of the human rights set out in the Declaration. Eleanor Roosevelt supported the adoption of the Declaration as a declaration rather than as a treaty because she believed that it would have the same kind of influence on global society as the United States Declaration of Independence had within the United States. In this, she proved to be correct. Even though it is not legally binding, the Declaration has been adopted in or has influenced most national constitutions since 1948. It has also served as the foundation for a growing number of national laws, international laws, and treaties, as well as for a growing number of regional, sub national, and national institutions protecting and promoting human rights.\n\nFor the first time in international law, the term “the rule of law” was used in the preamble of the Declaration. The third paragraph of the preamble of the Declaration reads as follows: \"Whereas it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of law.\"\n\nWhile not a treaty itself, the Declaration was explicitly adopted for the purpose of defining the meaning of the words \"fundamental freedoms\" and \"human rights\" appearing in the United Nations Charter, which is binding on all member states. For this reason, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a fundamental constitutive document of the United Nations. In addition, many international lawyers believe that the Declaration forms part of customary international law and is a powerful tool in applying diplomatic and moral pressure to governments that violate any of its articles. The 1968 United Nations International Conference on Human Rights advised that the Declaration \"constitutes an obligation for the members of the international community\" to all persons. The Declaration has served as the foundation for two binding UN human rights covenants: the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The principles of the Declaration are elaborated in international treaties such as the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the International Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the United Nations Convention Against Torture, and many more. The Declaration continues to be widely cited by governments, academics, advocates, and constitutional courts, and by individuals who appeal to its principles for the protection of their recognised human rights.\n\nThe Universal Declaration has received praise from a number of notable people. The Lebanese philosopher and diplomat Charles Malik called it \"an international document of the first order of importance\", while Eleanor Roosevelt—first chairwoman of the Commission on Human Rights (CHR) that drafted the Declaration—stated that it \"may well become the international Magna Carta of all men everywhere.\" In a speech on 5 October 1995, Pope John Paul II called the Declaration \"one of the highest expressions of the human conscience of our time\" but the Vatican never adopted the Declaration. In a statement on 10 December 2003 on behalf of the European Union, Marcello Spatafora said that the Declaration \"placed human rights at the centre of the framework of principles and obligations shaping relations within the international community.\"\n\nTurkey— which was a secular state with an overwhelmingly Muslim population—signed the Declaration in 1948. However, the same year, Saudi Arabia abstained from the ratification vote on the Declaration, claiming that it violated Sharia law. Pakistan—which had signed the declaration—disagreed and critiqued the Saudi position. Pakistani minister Muhammad Zafarullah Khan strongly argued in favor of including freedom of religion. In 1982, the Iranian representative to the United Nations, Said Rajaie-Khorassani, said that the Declaration was \"a secular understanding of the Judeo-Christian tradition\" which could not be implemented by Muslims without conflict with Sharia. On 30 June 2000, members of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (now the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation) officially resolved to support the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam, an alternative document that says people have \"freedom and right to a dignified life in accordance with the Islamic Shari'ah\", without any discrimination on grounds of \"race, colour, language, sex, religious belief, political affiliation, social status or other considerations\".\n\nSome Muslim diplomats would go on later to help draft other UN human rights treaties. For example, Iraqi diplomat Bedia Afnan's insistence on wording that recognized gender equality resulted in Article 3 within the ICCPR and ICESCR. Pakistani diplomat Shaista Suhrawardy Ikramullah also spoke in favor of recognizing women's rights.\n\nA number of scholars in different fields have expressed concerns with the Declaration's alleged Western bias. These include Irene Oh, Abdulaziz Sachedina, Riffat Hassan, and Faisal Kutty. Hassan has argued:\n\nWhat needs to be pointed out to those who uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to be the highest, or sole, model, of a charter of equality and liberty for all human beings, is that given the Western origin and orientation of this Declaration, the \"universality\" of the assumptions on which it is based isat the very leastproblematic and subject to questioning. Furthermore, the alleged incompatibility between the concept of human rights and religion in general, or particular religions such as Islam, needs to be examined in an unbiased way.\n\nIrene Oh argues that one solution is to approach the issue from the perspective of comparative (descriptive) ethics.\n\nKutty writes: \"A strong argument can be made that the current formulation of international human rights constitutes a cultural structure in which western society finds itself easily at home ... It is important to acknowledge and appreciate that other societies may have equally valid alternative conceptions of human rights.\"\n\nIronically, a number of Islamic countries that are among the most resistant to UN intervention in domestic affairs, played an invaluable role in the creation of the Declaration, with countries such as Syria and Egypt having been strong proponents of the universality of human rights and the right of countries to self-determination.\n\nGroups such as Amnesty International and War Resisters International have advocated for \"The Right to Refuse to Kill\" to be added to the Universal Declaration. War Resisters International has stated that the right to conscientious objection to military service is primarily derived from—but not yet explicit in—Article 18 of the UDHR: the right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion.\n\nSteps have been taken within the United Nations to make this right more explicit, butthose steps have been limited to less significant United Nations documents. Sean MacBride—Assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations and Nobel Peace Prize laureate—has said: \"To the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights one more might, with relevance, be added. It is 'The Right to Refuse to Kill'.\"\n\nThe American Anthropological Association criticized the UDHR while it was in its drafting process. The AAA warned that the document would be defining universal rights from a Western paradigm which would be unfair to countries outside of that scope. They further argued that the West's history of colonialism and evangelism made them a problematic moral representative for the rest of the world. They proposed three notes for consideration with underlying themes of cultural relativism: \"1. The individual realizes his personality through his culture, hence respect for individual differences entails a respect for cultural differences\", \"2. Respect for differences between cultures is validated by the scientific fact that no technique of qualitatively evaluating cultures has been discovered\", and \"3. Standards and values are relative to the culture from which they derive so that any attempt to formulate postulates that grow out of the beliefs or moral codes of one culture must to that extent detract from the applicability of any Declaration of Human Rights to mankind as a whole.\"\n\nDuring the lead up to the World Conference on Human Rights held in 1993, ministers from Asian states adopted the Bangkok Declaration, reaffirming their governments' commitment to the principles of the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They stated their view of the interdependence and indivisibility of human rights and stressed the need for universality, objectivity, and non-selectivity of human rights. However, at the same time, they emphasized the principles of sovereignty and non-interference, calling for greater emphasis on economic, social, and cultural rights—in particular, the right to economic development over civil and political rights. The Bangkok Declaration is considered to be a landmark expression of the Asian values perspective, which offers an extended critique of human rights universalism.\n\nThe International Federation for Human Rights (FIDH) is nonpartisan, nonsectarian, and independent of any government, and its core mandate is to promote respect for all the rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.\n\nIn 1988, director Stephen R. Johnson and 41 international animators, musicians, and producers created a 20-minute video for Amnesty International to celebrate the 40th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration. The video was to bring to life the Declaration's 30 articles.\n\nAmnesty International celebrated Human Rights Day and the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration\" all over the world by organizing the \"Fire Up!\" event.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Service Committee (UUSC) is a non-profit, nonsectarian organization whose work around the world is guided by the values of Unitarian Universalism and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It works to provide disaster relief and promote human rights and social justice around the world.\n\nThe Quaker United Nations Office and the American Friends Service Committee work on many human rights issues, including improving education on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They have developed a curriculum to help introduce High School students to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nIn 1997, the council of the American Library Association (ALA) endorsed Article 19 from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Along with Article 19, Article 18 and 20 are also fundamentally tied to the ALA Universal Right to Free Expression and the Library Bill of Rights. Censorship, the invasion of privacy, and interference of opinions are human rights violations according to the ALA. \n\nIn response to violations of human rights, the ALA asserts the following principles:\n\nYouth for Human Rights International (YHRI) is a non-profit organization founded in 2001 by Mary Shuttleworth, an educator born and raised in apartheid South Africa, where she witnessed firsthand the devastating effects of discrimination and the lack of basic human rights. The purpose of YHRI is to teach youth about human rights, specifically the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and inspire them to become advocates for tolerance and peace. YHRI has now grown into a global movement, including hundreds of groups, clubs and chapters around the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5550038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5550038", "title": "Unlicensed Personal Communications Services", "text": "Unlicensed Personal Communications Services\n\nUnlicensed Personal Communications Services or UPCS band is the 1920–1930 MHz frequency band allocated by the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for short range Personal Communications Services (PCS) applications in the United States, such as the Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications (DECT) wireless protocol. \n\nPrior to an FCC rules change in April 2005, the band also included the frequencies 1910-1920 MHz and 2390–2400 MHz. These were used for a variety of short range communications, including point-to-point microwave links. \n\nThese allocation rules are described in Title 47, Part 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations.\n\n\"Licensed\" PCS, although not necessarily distinguished as such from UPCS, is used for digital mobile phone services.\n\nNote that DECT devices designed to operate in this band (in the US) use the designator DECT 6.0.\n\n"}
{"id": "49167912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49167912", "title": "William Senior (historian)", "text": "William Senior (historian)\n\nWilliam Senior (1862–1937) was a British lawyer and legal historian. He was born in Wakefield, Yorkshire, the son of Thomas Senior, a local solicitor. William studied at Clare College, Cambridge 1879–1882, graduating B.A. He began practising as a solicitor himself in 1886, going into partnership 1890–1895 with his father and with Percival Barratt. When his father died, in 1895, he moved to London and trained as a barrister. He was called to the bar in 1896.\n\nHe was a contributor of short pieces on maritime history and law to \"Mariner's Mirror\", as well as of satirical pieces to \"Punch\", and also had poems published in \"The English Review\", occasional pieces in \"Cornhill Magazine\", and more substantial essays on maritime law in the \"Law Quarterly Review\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
