{"id": "17237508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17237508", "title": "1984 Soviet Union tornado outbreak", "text": "1984 Soviet Union tornado outbreak\n\nThe 1984 Soviet Union tornado outbreak, also known as the 1984 Ivanovo tornado outbreak, was one of only three disastrous tornado outbreaks in modern Russian history (one of the others being the 1904 Moscow tornado) and the third-deadliest tornado outbreak in European history. Occurring on June 9, 1984, the outbreak struck the Ivanovo and Yaroslavl regions north of Moscow, an area over 400,000 km. At least two of the eleven known tornadoes were violent events, equal to F4 or F5 in intensity on the Fujita scale, based upon observed damages. The deadliest single tornado was posthumously rated at F5 intensity and killed at least 92 people along its long path near Ivanovo and other towns. The tornado, up to wide, caused extreme damage, reportedly annihilating steel-reinforced concrete structures and throwing heavy objects of for distances up to . Another tornado, assessed to have been at least F4 and possibly F5 in intensity, occurred at Kostroma. Severe thunderstorms also produced hail up to in weight, among the heaviest hailstones confirmed worldwide. In all, the entire tornado outbreak killed at least 400 people and injured 213.\n\nOn June 8, 1984, a negatively tilted trough caused an extratropical low pressure area to form over the coast of the Socialist Republic of Romania (now non-Communist Romania). Surface moisture moved north from the Black Sea and caused nearby dew points to rise to ; though at that time these were restricted to Romania and the Ukrainian SSR, dew points were higher than average elsewhere. By 1800 UTC, developing thunderstorms over the Ukrainian SSR spread overnight into the Russian SFSR. Between 00 and 12 UTC on June 9, the strengthening low pressure area moved north-northeast over the northwestern Russian SFSR before undergoing occlusion. In the meantime, a strong cold front rapidly advanced along a line extending south from the surface low, then south of Minsk in the Byelorussian SSR (now Belarus), to near Bucharest. This front separated the drier air mass to the north from the warm, moist air mass near the Black Sea, and strong wind speeds near ground level caused vertical mixing. Therefore, dew points actually dropped before the first tornadoes formed, but nevertheless several factors overcame the lower dew points to produce tornadoes. Among these were a strong upper-level jet stream, clear skies causing daytime heating and instability, strong synoptic-scale lifting leading to ascension of updrafts, and high adiabatic lapse rates promoting thunderstorm development. All these factors combined to produce severe weather near Moscow. The tornadoes occurred in this region because an unstable and moist air mass, supported by warm sea surface temperatures over the Black Sea, had been in place four days before the outbreak began. The unusually strong intensity of the trough in the region on June 8–9, with a 500-millibar geopotential height measured at about 2.7 standard deviations below normal, also favored an intense tornado outbreak. \n\nA large, long-tracked, and devastating tornado, considered one of the worst in Russian history, destroyed numerous towns along its path. Rated F5 on the Fujita scale, the half-mile-wide (800-m) tornado killed at least 92 people and injured more than 130 others. Several reinforced structures were completely destroyed, and about 1,180 homes were also leveled by the tornado. Some estimates indicate up to 95 deaths or even more, with some sources suggesting all 400 deaths in the outbreak were related to the Ivanovo tornado.\n\nAt 1130 UTC—other sources say 1205 UTC—this powerful multiple vortex tornado touched down south of Ivanovo. Near Ivanovo, the tornado snapped or bent pine, spruce, and birch trees about – from ground level. In the town itself, the tornado picked up and cast aside a crane, weighing , and threw a water tank, weighing 50,000 kilograms (110,000 lb), over a distance of . The tornado reportedly swept away large industrial buildings and steel-reinforced concrete structures, leaving little or no debris on the foundations. Numerous vehicles and heavy objects were thrown very long distances as well. The tornado also tore asphalt from a highway near Ivanovo.\n\nNear the Volga River, the tornado ripped up trees by their roots and destroyed many small huts. It also carried a water tank weighing for . Steel water containers capable of holding of water were carried in the air and transported from their original site. Hail in association with the parent thunderstorm weighed up to , among the heaviest hailstones measured anywhere in the world; though the measurement came with few details, it is comparable to the world record, a hailstone also measuring in Bangladesh on April 15, 1986. The F5 tornado tracked for —though some sources suggest only —before dissipating near Lunevo in Yaroslavl Oblast. It caused at least 92 deaths, though many others likely went unreported. \n\nAccording to Russian researchers writing in the 1980s, this tornado was either the same as the Ivanovo tornado or a member of the Ivanovo tornado family; if the latter, it may indicate that the Ivanovo tornado was in fact two separate tornadoes spawned by the same thunderstorm. However, recent research indicates that the Ivanovo storm was not the same as the one that produced the Kostroma tornado. Numerous trees were thrown long distances by the tornado. A crane weighing was knocked over, several bridges were destroyed, and numerous other structures were damaged. The severity of the damage was rated F4; however, there are indications that the tornado may have attained F5 intensity.\n\n"}
{"id": "55796803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55796803", "title": "1999 Aggie Bonfire collapse", "text": "1999 Aggie Bonfire collapse\n\nAt approximately 2:42 a.m. on November 18, 1999, the annual Aggie bonfire at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas collapsed during its construction, killing 12 people and injuring 27.\n\nThe 59-foot high stack, consisting of about 5000 logs, collapsed during construction. Of the 58 students and former students working on the stack, 12 were killed and 27 were injured. Immediately after the collapse, Emergency Medical Technicians and trained First Responders of the Texas A&M Emergency Care Team (TAMECT), a student-run, volunteer service, who staffed each stage of construction, administered first aid. TAMECT alerted the University Police and University EMS (also a student-run service), who dispatched all remaining university medics, and requested mutual aid from the surrounding agencies. In addition to the mutual aid received from the College Station and Bryan, Texas EMS, Fire, and Police Departments, members of Texas Task Force 1, the state's elite emergency response team, arrived to assist the rescue efforts.\n\nRescue operations took over 24 hours; the pace was hampered by the decision to remove many of the logs by hand for fear that using heavy equipment to remove them would cause further collapses, resulting in further injuries to those still trapped. Students, including the entire Texas A&M football team and many members of the university's Corps of Cadets, rushed to the site to assist rescue workers with the manual removal of the logs. The Texas A&M civil engineering department was also called on to examine the site and help the workers determine the order in which the logs could be safely removed, and, at the request of the Texas Forest Service, Steely Lumber Company in Huntsville, Texas, sent log-moving equipment and operators. John Comstock was the last living person to be removed from the stack. He spent months in the hospital following amputation of his left leg and partial paralysis of his right side. Comstock returned to A&M in 2001 to finish his degree.\n\nWithin minutes of the collapse, word of the accident spread among students and the community. Before sunrise, the accident was the subject of news reports around the world. Within hours, 50 satellite trucks were broadcasting from the Texas A&M campus. At noon, students held an impromptu prayer service in the center of campus, at Rudder Fountain. An official memorial service was held less than seventeen hours after the collapse. Over 16,000 mourners, including then Texas Lieutenant Governor Rick Perry, packed Reed Arena to pay tribute to those who died and those who had spent all day trying to rescue the injured. At the end of the service, as A&M University President Ray Bowen presented roses to the families of the dead and injured students, the crowd spontaneously stood in silence, linking arms with those standing next to them, before quietly singing \"Amazing Grace\". Only after all of the rescue workers and family members had left the facility did the audience depart.\n\nOn November 25, 1999, the date that Bonfire would have burned, Aggies instead held a vigil and remembrance ceremony. Over 40,000 people lit candles and observed up to two hours of silence at the site of the collapse, before walking to Kyle Field for yell practice. At the stadium, fans spontaneously relit their candles as the Parsons Mounted Cavalry fired the Aggie cannon twelve times, once for each victim. Former President George H. W. Bush, his wife Barbara, Texas Governor George W. Bush, and his wife Laura attended the remembrance ceremony.\n\nThe following day, the Aggies upset the Texas Longhorns, winning 20–16 in the annual rivalry game. The game began with a flyover of F-16 jets, all piloted by former A&M students, in the missing man formation. This flyover was donated by Senator Phil Gramm who, as an elected official, had the title of a fly-over reserved for his death and asked that the fly-over be given instead in the honor of the 12 Aggies that died. At halftime, the Texas Longhorn Band dedicated their performance to the students lost and injured in the collapse, and ended by playing \"Amazing Grace\" and \"Taps\", then removing their white hats in a show of respect as they walked off the field. The Fightin' Texas Aggie Band also played a tribute to the fallen and, contrary to the usual tradition, marched off the field in a silent cadence. Aggie students, who normally sit only when the opposing band plays, stood throughout both performances and gave both standing ovations.\n\nThe Bonfire Memorial Commission collected the hundreds of thousands of items that were left by grieving visitors at the site of the collapse. At the Systems Building, Texas A&M leaders erected pictures of the deceased students. There, over a dozen seniors left behind their Aggie rings, permanently donating them to the students who did not live long enough to earn their own. Various organizations also established funds in memory of the victims and to help with expenses incurred because of the accident. In total, the funds received exceeded US$250,000.\n\nA commission created by Texas A&M University discovered that a number of factors led to the Bonfire collapse, including \"excessive internal stresses\" on the logs and \"inadequate containment strength\" in the wiring used to tie the logs together. The wiring broke after logs from upper tiers were \"wedged\" into lower tiers.\n\nThe Texas Board of Professional Engineers announced in 2000 that the Aggie Bonfire met the requirements to be considered a complex construction project subject to regulation under state engineering laws and would thus have to be designed and overseen by a professional engineer.\n\nOn November 19, 1999, \"The Arizona Republic\" released a political cartoon by Steve Benson that compared the collapse to the Waco siege of 1993 and the 1998 Murder of James Byrd Jr. This prompted criticism and negative reactions from the Texas A&M community, and the \"Republic\" removed the cartoon. Persons sent thousands of e-mails regarding the cartoon to the newspaper offices. On December 1, the newspaper sent a total of $10,000 in two checks as a peace offering to the university, with $5,000 to the Bonfire Memorial Fund and $5,000 to the Bonfire Relief Fund. The TAMU administration declined to accept the money and returned the checks. TAMU president Ray Bowen stated \"Texas A&M will not allow itself to become an agent for \"The Arizona Republic\" as it tries to manage the public criticism it is receiving.\"\n\nBy 2000 Texas A&M spent over $80,000 so students and administrators could travel to the funerals of the deceased, including $40,000 so 125 students and staff could attend a funeral in Turlock, California by way of private aircraft; most of the persons on board were students. The total amount of funds spent by the university on all disaster-related expenses by that date was $292,000.\n\nThe university gave the National Forestry Hero Award to an employee of Huntsville, Texas-based Steely Lumber Co., James Gibson, for rescuing students.\n\nDetractors further blamed the school for the accident, saying that, in the name of tradition, administrators turned a blind eye to an unsafe structure being constructed with minimal engineering and safety protocols. Before the collapse, some people expressed concerns about the safety of the Bonfire, citing the partial collapse that occurred in a previous Bonfire, the progressively shorter Bonfire burn times (collapse of the stack after lighting) which had dropped from several hours to less than 20 minutes, and numerous incidents involving alcohol or unsafe horseplay at the Bonfire site. One of the students killed in the 1999 Bonfire collapse was under the legal drinking age yet a toxicology test showed high blood-alcohol levels; however, lower readings in a second test and inconsistencies in the initial sampling and annotation methods led to questions about the accuracy of the original tests.\n\nParents of students injured or killed in the collapse filed lawsuits against Texas A&M officials, including President Ray Bowen, Vice President of Student Affairs J. Malon Southerland, the 1999 redpots, and the university. In one of the six lawsuits, plaintiffs alleged that A&M officials violated the Bonfire victims' right of due process by placing those victims in a \"state-created danger\" by not ensuring Bonfire's structural integrity and by allowing unqualified students to work on the stack. The plaintiffs pointed to a $2 million liability policy the university obtained in 1996 and accidental death and dismemberment insurance policies that the university obtained for student workers as early as 1987 as proof that the administrators knew of the dangers of Bonfire. Texas A&M maintains that the insurance policies were actually purchased by an advisory committee to Bonfire and not the university. On May 21, 2004, Federal Judge Samuel B. Kent dismissed all claims against the Texas A&M officials. In 2005, 36 of the 64 original defendants, including all of the redpots, settled their portion of the case for an estimated $4.25 million, paid by their insurance companies. The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the remaining lawsuits against Texas A&M and its officials in April 2007. In October 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to review the appeals court ruling.\n\nFor the next two years, the university pondered options for reinstating the tradition. Bowen formed a task force, which proposed a new design. The task force recommended that students be allowed to participate in building the Bonfire as long as they were monitored by professional construction experts. Current and former students debated whether the proposed division of labor could be considered a student project. The debate was rendered moot when the university discovered liability insurance for the revamped project would cost more than $2 million per year. In 2002, Bowen announced that Bonfire was officially cancelled. Bowen's successor Robert Gates upheld this decision, stating that a \"change in the status quo regarding the future of Bonfire would be inappropriate while litigation is still on-going\".\n\nOn October 28, 2008, Texas A&M settled the final lawsuit filed against them by the victims and their families. The university agreed to pay $2.1 million and promised that if Bonfire returned to campus that \"engineering oversight\" would be provided. The final lawsuit, filed against two companies that provided crane operators and cranes for the bonfire, was settled in April 2014.\n\n\n\n\nNews coverage:\n\nWebsites in favor of the bonfire continuing:\n"}
{"id": "36622635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36622635", "title": "2004 Women's Bandy World Championship", "text": "2004 Women's Bandy World Championship\n\nThe Bandy World Championship for women 2004 took place in Lappeenranta, Finland between 18 and 22 February. It was the first World Championship in bandy for women. Five teams took part, and firstly, all teams played in a group series, where all teams played each other once. The four best teams continued to the semi-finals. All matches were 2x30 minutes, apart from the final, which was 2 x 45 minutes. Sweden became world champions, winning their six matches a total of 52-0. In the final-game Sweden defeated Russia, 7-0.\n\n"}
{"id": "10851917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10851917", "title": "2007 SEC Softball Tournament", "text": "2007 SEC Softball Tournament\n\nThe 2007 SEC Softball Tournament was held at Jane B. Moore Field on the campus of Auburn University in Auburn, Alabama from May 10 through May 12, 2007. LSU won the tournament and earned the Southeastern Conference's automatic bid to the 2007 NCAA Tournament.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22062062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22062062", "title": "7 March Speech of Bangabandhu", "text": "7 March Speech of Bangabandhu\n\nThe 7 March Speech of Bangabandhu was a speech given by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the founding father of Bangladesh on 7 March 1971 at the Ramna Race Course in Dhaka to a gathering of over two million people. It was delivered during a period of escalating tensions between East Pakistan and the powerful political and military establishment of West Pakistan. In the speech, Rahman proclaimed: \"This time the struggle is for our freedom. This time the struggle is for our independence.\" He announced a civil disobedience movement in the province, calling for \"every house to turn into a fortress\". The speech inspired the Bengali people to prepare for a war of independence amid widespread reports of armed mobilisation by West Pakistan. The Bangladesh Liberation War began 18 days later, when the Pakistan Army launched Operation Searchlight against Bengali civilians, intelligentsia, students, politicians, and armed personnel. On 30 October 2017, UNESCO added the speech in the Memory of the World Register as a documentary heritage.\n\nPakistan was created in 1947, during the Partition of India, as a Muslim homeland in South Asia. Its territory comprised most of the Muslim-majority provinces of British India, including two geographically and culturally separate areas, one east of India and the other west. The western zone was popularly (and, for a period, officially) called West Pakistan; the eastern zone (modern-day Bangladesh) was called East Bengal and then East Pakistan. West Pakistan dominated the country politically, and its leaders exploited the East economically, leading to popular grievances.\n\nWhen East Pakistanis, such as Khawaja Nazimuddin, Muhammad Ali Bogra, and Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, were elected Prime Minister of Pakistan, they were swiftly deposed by the predominantly West Pakistani establishment. The military dictatorships of Ayub Khan (27 October 1958 – 25 March 1969) and Yahya Khan (25 March 1969 – 20 December 1971), both West Pakistanis, worsened East Pakistanis' discontent.\n\nIn 1966, the Awami League, led by Sheikh Mujib, launched the Six Point Movement to demand provincial autonomy for East Pakistan. The Pakistani establishment rejected the league's proposals, and the military government arrested Sheikh Mujib and charged him with treason in the Agartala Conspiracy Case. After three years in jail, Mujib was released in 1969, and the case against him was dropped in the face of mass protests and widespread violence in East Pakistan.\n\nIn 1970, the Awami League, the largest East Pakistani political party, won a landslide victory in national elections, winning 167 of the 169 seats allotted to East Pakistan and a majority of the 313 seats in the National Assembly. This gave it the constitutional right to form a government. However, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party and a member of the Sindhi ethnic group, refused to allow Sheikh Mujib to become prime minister. Instead, he proposed having two prime ministers, one for each wing.\n\nNegotiations began in Dhaka between the two sides. In January 1971, after the first round of negotiations, President Yahya Khan promised in the Dhaka airport that Sheikh Mujib would be the next prime minister and that the newly elected National Assembly would convene on 3 March 1971. However, Bhutto was vehemently opposed to a Bengali becoming prime minister, and he began a campaign of racially charged speeches across West Pakistan to invoke fear of Bengali domination. He warned West Pakistani MPs-elect not to travel to the East. Fearing a civil war, Bhutto secretly sent an associate, Mubashir Hassan, to meet with Sheikh Mujib and members of his inner circle. It was decided that Sheikh Mujib would serve as prime minister, with Bhutto as president. These talks were kept hidden from the public and from the armed forces. Meanwhile, Bhutto pressured Yahya Khan to take a stance.\n\nOn 3 March, the convening of the National Assembly was postponed until 25 March, leading to an outcry across East Pakistan. Violence broke out in Dhaka, Chittagong, Rangpur, Comilla, Rajshahi, Sylhet, and Khulna, and the security forces killed dozens of unarmed protesters. There were open calls for Sheikh Mujib to declare independence from Pakistan, and the Awami League called a large public gathering at Dhaka's Ramna Race Course on 7 March to respond.\n\nThe Pakistan government didn't give permission to live broadcast the speech through radio and television on 7 March 1971. AHM Salahuddin who was the then chairman of Pakistan International Film Corporation and M Abul Khayer, a then member of the National Assembly from East Pakistan, made arrangements to record the video and audio of the speech. The video was recorded by actor Abul Khair who was the Director of Films under Ministry of Information of Pakistan at the time. The audio of the speech was recorded by HN Khondokar, a technician of the Ministry of Information.\n\nThe audio record was developed and archived by \"Dhaka Record, a\" record label owned by M Abul Khayer. Later on, copy of the audio and video recording was handed over to Sheikh Mujib and a copy of the audio was sent to India. 3000 copies of the audio were distributed by Indian record label HMV Records throughout the world.\n\nBangabandhu started with the lines, \"Today, I appeared before you with a heavy heart. You know everything and understand as well. We tried with our lives. But the painful matter is that today, in Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna, Rajshahi and Rangpur, the streets are dyed red with the blood of our brethren. Today the people of Bengal want freedom, the people of Bengal want to survive, the people of Bengal want to have their rights. What wrong did we do?\"\n\nHe mentioned four conditions for joining the National Assembly on 25 March:\nHe also gave several directives for a civil disobedience movement, instructing that:\nThe speech lasted about 19 minutes and concluded with, \"Our struggle, this time, is a struggle for our freedom. Our struggle, this time, is a struggle for our independence. Joy Bangla!\" It was a \"de facto\" declaration of Bangladesh's independence.\n\nInternational media had descended upon East Pakistan for the speech amidst speculation that Sheikh Mujib would make a unilateral declaration of independence from Pakistan. However, keeping in mind the failures of Rhodesia's Unilateral Declaration of Independence and of the Biafra struggle in Nigeria, he did not make a direct declaration. Nevertheless, the speech was effective in giving Bengalis a clear goal of independence.\n\n\nThe speech is on the Memory of the World Register of UNESCO, a list of world's important documentary heritage. Irina Bokova, Director General of UNESCO announced the decision at its headquarter in Paris on 30 October 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4914294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4914294", "title": "Al-Ahram Weekly", "text": "Al-Ahram Weekly\n\nAl-Ahram Weekly is an English-language weekly broadsheet printed by the Al-Ahram Publishing House in Cairo, Egypt.\n\n\"Al Ahram Weekly\" was established in 1991 by the \"Al-Ahram\" newspaper, which also runs a French-language weekly version, \"Al-Ahram Hebdo\".\n\nBetween 1991 and 2003, founder Hosni Guindi, served as the editor-in-chief and Hani Shukrallah as managing editor and co-founder Mona Anis as deputy editor-in-chief. After Hosni's death in 2003, Shukrallah succeeded him as acting editor. In 2005 Egypt's Shura Council appointed Assem El-Qersh as the paper's editor-in-chief, replacing Shukrallah. In June 2014, Galal Nassar was appointed editor-in-chief of the weekly.\n\nThe circulation of the magazine in 2000 was 50,000 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "11524756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11524756", "title": "Albert S. Willis", "text": "Albert S. Willis\n\nAlbert Shelby Willis (January 22, 1843 – January 6, 1897) was a United States Representative from Kentucky and a Minister to Hawaii.\n\nBorn in Shelbyville, Kentucky, Willis attended the common schools, and graduated from the Louisville Male High School in 1860. He taught school for four years before graduating from the University of Louisville School of Law in 1866. He was admitted to the bar and commenced the practice of law in Louisville. He served as prosecuting attorney for Jefferson County from 1874 to 1877.\n\nWillis was elected as a Democrat to the Forty-fifth and to the four succeeding Congresses (March 4, 1877 – March 3, 1887). He served as chairman of the Committee on Rivers and Harbors during the Forty-eighth and Forty-ninth Congresses. He was an unsuccessful candidate for renomination in 1886.\n\nHe resumed the practice of law before being appointed Minister to Hawaii by President Grover Cleveland in 1893. Willis was sent to Hawaii on a secret mission to meet with deposed Queen Liliuokalani and obtain a promise of amnesty for those involved in the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii if Cleveland restored her to the throne. Willis reported to the Secretary of State in Washington that she was intent on killing the culprits. There was a dispute: Willis said the Queen said \"beheading\"; she later said she used \"execute.\" \n\nFinally the Queen reversed herself and told Willis she could issue an amnesty. On December 18, 1893, Willis demanded on behalf of Cleveland to dissolve the Provisional Government of Hawaii and restore the Queen to power. Willis' mission was a failure when Sanford B. Dole sent a written reply declining the surrender of his authority to the deposed queen. President Cleveland then referred the matter to Congress, which commissioned the Morgan Report, which exonerated the U.S. minister and peacekeepers from taking any part in the Hawaiian Revolution. Following the Morgan Report, Cleveland reversed his stance, rebuffed the queen's further pleas for interference, and maintained normal diplomatic relations with both the Provisional Government and its successor the Republic of Hawaii.\n\nWillis served as Minister to Hawaii until his death in Honolulu on January 6, 1897. An elaborate state funeral was held for him in the ʻIolani Palace (temporarily renamed the Executive Building). He was interred in Cave Hill Cemetery, Louisville, Kentucky.\n\n"}
{"id": "27873493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27873493", "title": "Antelope of Boston", "text": "Antelope of Boston\n\nAntelope was a medium clipper built in 1851 in Medford, near Boston, Massachusetts. She sailed in the San Francisco, China, and Far East trades, and was known for her fine finish work and for her crew’s escape from pirates. She is often called Antelope of Boston to distinguish her from an extreme clipper launched in 1852, \"Antelope of New York\".\n\n\"Antelope\" was designed \"to combine large stowage capacity with good sailing qualities.\" Her frame was white oak, with yellow pine planking and a rock maple keel.\nThe hull was black, the inside dark buff with blue waterways. Her cabin was \"beautifully panelled with satin and zebra woods, set off with rose wood pilasters.\" The \"Boston Daily Atlas\" praised \"Antelope\"’s ornamental work as \"infinitely superior to most of the gaudy stuff now in vogue.\" \n\n\"Antelope\" sailed from Boston to San Francisco on her maiden voyage in 149 days, rather than the expected 130 days or less, under the well known Captain Tully Crosby. From there she sailed to Shanghai, returning to New York with a passage of 118 days.\n\nIn 1853, \"Antelope\" arrived in San Francisco from New York under Captain Snow on August 31 after a passage of 128 days, returning to New York via Callao in 178 days.\n\nAfter one more round trip to the West Coast of South America \"Antelope\" went into the China trade.\n\n\"Antelope\"’s sailing life was six years and nine months.\n\nIn July 1858, under Captain Clarke, \"Antelope\" departed Bangkok for China. On August 6, she struck on Discovery Shoal, Paracels Reef, which was not visible due to a high tide.\n\nCaptain Clarke, four passengers, and 13 seamen abandoned ship, and set out in one of the ship’s boats. A second boat, which became separated during the night, carried the mate, one seaman, and ten Chinese passengers. Four days later, a Chinese fishing junk came into view. Clarke offered the fishermen $20 for a tow to a place where water could be had. Once the \"Antelope\" party was taken in tow, it became evident that the fishermen were not trustworthy. Fearing piracy, the shipwrecked party cut the tow rope and attempted an escape. The fishermen pursued the boat, attacked it with stones, and finally set two fishermen to stand guard with spears while the others robbed the \"Antelope\" party. In the midst of the confusion, two of the \"Antelope\" sailors took advantage of the distraction and boarded the fishing junk, dispatching its crew. Captain Clarke also attempted to board the junk, but fell in the water and had to be rescued. The shipwrecked \"Antelope\" party then took command of the junk, and arrived in Hong Kong on August 14.\n\n"}
{"id": "7872190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7872190", "title": "Arena Theatre", "text": "Arena Theatre\n\nArena Theatre () is one of the oldest theatres in Bratislava. \nIt was established in 1828 on the right bank of Danube. In the beginning it served as \nan open summer amphitheatre, hence the name Arena. The current building was built in \n1898.\n\nFrom its establishment till the end of the Second World War, many Hungarian, \nAustrian and German theatre companies performed there. After the war, the \ntheatre was gradually closed and served as a storehouse for state-owned Slovak Television.\n\nThe theatre was revived by a group of people around mime artist Milan Sládek, opening performance \ntook place in 1997. The repertoire consisted of several pantomimic performances, an annual \npantomimic festival took place there.\n\nIn 2003, renowned Slovak actor Juraj Kukura became managing director and focus of the \ntheatre shifted to drama. Performance \"The Goat or Who is Sylvia?\" was nominated \nfor DOSKY Award 2004 in categories best performance and best director, Juraj \nKukura and Emília Vášáryová won the categories for best actor/actress. A year later, \nmonodrama \"Tiso\" was voted the best performance. Marián Labuda, who was performing \nJozef Tiso, won the prize for best actor.\n\n"}
{"id": "937208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=937208", "title": "August Blues Festival", "text": "August Blues Festival\n\nThe August Blues Festival () is a blues music festival held in Haapsalu, Estonia since 1993.\n\nThe festival takes place mainly inside the walls of Haapsalu Castle. It is the biggest blues festival in the Baltic states.\n\nBesides Estonian blues musicians, there have been guests from Finland, Sweden, United States of America and elsewhere. In 2017, the Italian born blues guitarist, singer and songwriter, Dany Franchi, performed at the festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "24008586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24008586", "title": "Berlin Blockade", "text": "Berlin Blockade\n\nThe Berlin Blockade (24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949) was one of the first major international crises of the Cold War. During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany, the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies' railway, road, and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Western control. The Soviets offered to drop the blockade if the Western Allies withdrew the newly introduced Deutsche Mark from West Berlin.\n\nThe Western Allies organised the Berlin airlift (26 June 1948–30 September 1949) to carry supplies to the people of West Berlin, a difficult feat given the size of the city's population. Aircrews from the United States Air Force, the Royal Air Force, the French Air Force, the Royal Canadian Air Force, the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal New Zealand Air Force, and the South African Air Force flew over 200,000 sorties in one year, providing to the West Berliners up to 12,941 tons of necessities in a day, such as fuel and food, with the original plan being to lift 3,475 tons of supplies. However, by the end of the airlift, that number was often met twofold. The Soviets did not disrupt the airlift for fear this might lead to open conflict, even though they far outnumbered the allies in Germany and especially Berlin. \n\nBy the spring of 1949, the airlift was clearly succeeding, and by April it was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail. On 12 May 1949, the USSR lifted the blockade of West Berlin, although for a time the U.S., U.K and France continued to supply the city by air anyway because they were worried that the Soviets were simply going to resume the blockade and were only trying to disrupt western supply lines. The Berlin Blockade served to highlight the competing ideological and economic visions for postwar Europe and was the first major multinational skirmish of the cold war.\n\nFrom July 17 to August 2, 1945, the victorious Allies reached the Potsdam Agreement on the fate of postwar Europe, calling for the division of defeated Germany into four temporary occupation zones (thus re-affirming principles laid out earlier by the Yalta Conference). These zones were located roughly around the then-current locations of the allied armies. Also divided into occupation zones, Berlin was located inside Soviet-controlled eastern Germany. The United States, United Kingdom, and France controlled western portions of the city, while Soviet troops controlled the eastern sector.\n\nIn the eastern zone, the Soviet authorities forcibly unified the Communist Party of Germany and Social Democratic Party (SPD) in the Socialist Unity Party (\"SED\"), claiming at the time that it would not have a Marxist–Leninist or Soviet orientation. The SED leaders then called for the \"establishment of an anti-fascist, democratic regime, a parliamentary democratic republic\" while the Soviet Military Administration suppressed all other political activities. Factories, equipment, technicians, managers and skilled personnel were removed to the Soviet Union.\n\nIn a June 1945 meeting, Stalin informed German communist leaders that he expected to slowly undermine the British position within their occupation zone, that the United States would withdraw within a year or two and that nothing would then stand in the way of a united Germany under communist control within the Soviet orbit. Stalin and other leaders told visiting Bulgarian and Yugoslavian delegations in early 1946 that Germany must be both Soviet and communist.\n\nA further factor contributing to the Blockade was that there had never been a formal agreement guaranteeing rail and road access to Berlin through the Soviet zone. At the end of the war, western leaders had relied on Soviet goodwill to provide them with access. At that time, the western allies assumed that the Soviets' refusal to grant any cargo access other than one rail line, limited to ten trains per day, was temporary, but the Soviets refused expansion to the various additional routes that were later proposed.\n\nThe Soviets also granted only three air corridors for access to Berlin from Hamburg, Bückeburg, and Frankfurt. In 1946 the Soviets stopped delivering agricultural goods from their zone in eastern Germany, and the American commander, Lucius D. Clay, responded by stopping shipments of dismantled industries from western Germany to the Soviet Union. In response, the Soviets started a public relations campaign against American policy and began to obstruct the administrative work of all four zones of occupation.\n\nUntil the blockade began in 1948, the Truman Administration had not decided whether American forces should remain in West Berlin after the establishment of a West German government, planned for 1949.\n\nBerlin quickly became the focal point of both US and Soviet efforts to re-align Europe to their respective visions. As Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov noted, \"What happens to Berlin, happens to Germany; what happens to Germany, happens to Europe.\" Berlin had suffered enormous damage; its prewar population of 4.3 million people was reduced to 2.8 million.\n\nAfter harsh treatment, forced emigration, political repression and the particularly hard winter of 1945–1946, Germans in the Soviet-controlled zone were hostile to Soviet endeavours. Local elections in 1946 resulted in a massive anti-communist protest vote, especially in the Soviet sector of Berlin. Berlin's citizens overwhelmingly elected non-Communist members to its city government.\n\nMeanwhile, to coordinate the economies of the British and United States occupation zones, these were combined on 1 January 1947 into what was referred to as the Bizone (renamed \"the Trizone\" when France joined on 1 June 1948). After March 1946 the British zonal advisory board (Zonenbeirat) was established, with representatives of the states, the central offices, political parties, trade unions, and consumer organisations. As indicated by its name, the zonal advisory board had no legislative power, but was merely advisory. The Control Commission for Germany – British Element made all decisions with its legislative power. In reaction to the Soviet and British advances, in October 1945 the Office of Military Government, United States (OMGUS) encouraged the states in the US zone to form a co-ordinating body, the so-called Länderrat (council of states), with the power to legislate for the entire US zone. It created its own central bodies (Ausschüsse or joint interstate committees) headed by a secretariat seated in Stuttgart. While the British and Soviet central administrations were allied institutions, these US zone committees were not OMGUS subdivisions, but instead were autonomous bodies of German self-rule under OMGUS supervision.\n\nRepresentatives of these three governments, along with the Benelux nations, met twice in London (London 6-Power Conference) in the first half of 1948 to discuss the future of Germany, going ahead despite Soviet threats to ignore any resulting decisions. Eventually the London Agreement on German External Debts, also known as the London Debt Agreement (German: \"Londoner Schuldenabkommen\"), was concluded. Under the London Debts Agreement of 1953, the repayable amount was reduced by 50% to about 15 billion marks and stretched out over 30 years, and compared to the fast-growing German economy were of minor impact.\n\nIn response to the announcement of the first of these meetings, in late January 1948, the Soviets began stopping British and American trains to Berlin to check passenger identities. As outlined in an announcement on 7 March 1948, all of the governments present approved the extension of the Marshall Plan to Germany, finalised the economic merger of the western occupation zones in Germany and agreed upon the establishment of a federal system of government for them.\n\nAfter a 9 March meeting between Stalin and his military advisers, a secret memorandum was sent to Molotov on 12 March 1948, outlining a plan to force the policy of the western allies into line with the wishes of the Soviet government by \"regulating\" access to Berlin. The Allied Control Council (ACC) met for the last time on 20 March 1948, when Vasily Sokolovsky demanded to know the outcome of the London Conference and, on being told by negotiators that they had not yet heard the final results from their governments, he said, \"I see no sense in continuing this meeting, and I declare it adjourned.\"\n\nThe entire Soviet delegation rose and walked out. Truman later noted, \"For most of Germany, this act merely formalised what had been an obvious fact for some time, namely, that the four-power control machinery had become unworkable. For the city of Berlin, however, this was an indication for a major crisis.\"\n\nOn 25 March 1948, the Soviets issued orders restricting Western military and passenger traffic between the American, British and French occupation zones and Berlin. These new measures began on 1 April along with an announcement that no cargo could leave Berlin by rail without the permission of the Soviet commander. Each train and truck was to be searched by the Soviet authorities. On 2 April, General Clay ordered a halt to all military trains and required that supplies to the military garrison be transported by air, in what was dubbed the \"Little Lift\".\n\nThe Soviets eased their restrictions on Allied military trains on 10 April 1948, but continued periodically to interrupt rail and road traffic during the next 75 days, while the United States continued supplying its military forces by using cargo aircraft. Some 20 flights a day continued through June, building up stocks of food against future Soviet actions, so that by the time the blockade began at the end of June, at least 18 days' supply per major food type, and in some types, much more, had been stockpiled that provided time to build up the ensuing airlift.\n\nAt the same time, Soviet military aircraft began to violate West Berlin airspace and would harass, or what the military called \"buzz\", flights in and out of West Berlin. On 5 April, a Soviet Air Force Yakovlev Yak-3 fighter collided with a British European Airways Vickers Viking 1B airliner near RAF Gatow airfield, killing all aboard both aircraft. The Gatow air disaster exacerbated tensions between the Soviets and the other allied powers. Internal Soviet reports in April stated that \"Our control and restrictive measures have dealt a strong blow to the prestige of the Americans and British in Germany\" and that the Americans have \"admitted\" that the idea of an airlift would be too expensive.\n\nOn 9 April, Soviet officials demanded that American military personnel maintaining communication equipment in the Eastern zone must withdraw, thus preventing the use of navigation beacons to mark air routes. On 20 April, the Soviets demanded that all barges obtain clearance before entering the Soviet zone.\n\nCreation of an economically stable western Germany required reform of the unstable Reichsmark German currency introduced after the 1920s German inflation. The Soviets had debased the Reichsmark by excessive printing, resulting in Germans using cigarettes as a de facto currency or for bartering. The Soviets opposed western plans for a reform. They interpreted the new currency as an unjustified, unilateral decision, and responded by cutting all land links between West Berlin and West Germany. The Soviets believed that the only currency that should be allowed to circulate was the currency that they issued themselves. In February 1948, the Americans and British had proposed to the ACC that a new German currency be created, replacing the over-circulated and devalued Reichsmark. The Soviets refused to accept this proposal, hoping to continue the German recession, in keeping with their policy of a weak Germany.\n\nAnticipating the introduction of a new currency by the other countries in the non-Soviet zones, the Soviet Union in May 1948 directed its military to introduce its own new currency and to permit only the Soviet currency to be used in their sector of Berlin, if the other countries brought in a different currency there. On 18 June the United States, Britain and France announced that on 21 June the Deutsche Mark would be introduced, but the Soviets refused to permit its use as legal tender in Berlin. The Allies had already transported 250,000,000 Deutsche marks into the city and it quickly became the standard currency in all four sectors. Against the wishes of the Soviets, the new currency, along with the Marshall Plan that backed it, appeared to have the potential to revitalise Germany. Stalin looked to force the Western nations to abandon Berlin.\n\nThe day after the 18 June 1948 announcement of the new Deutsche Mark, Soviet guards halted all passenger trains and traffic on the autobahn to Berlin, delayed Western and German freight shipments and required that all water transport secure special Soviet permission. On 21 June, the day the Deutsche Mark was introduced, the Soviet military halted a United States military supply train to Berlin and sent it back to western Germany. On 22 June, the Soviets announced that they would introduce a new currency in their zone.\n\nThat same day, a Soviet representative told the other three occupying powers that \"We are warning both you and the population of Berlin that we shall apply economic and administrative sanctions that will lead to the circulation in Berlin exclusively of the currency of the Soviet occupation zone.\" The Soviets launched a massive propaganda campaign condemning Britain, the United States and France by radio, newspaper and loudspeaker. The Soviets conducted well-advertised military maneuvers just outside the city. Rumors of a potential occupation by Soviet troops spread quickly. German communists demonstrated, rioted and attacked pro-West German leaders attending meetings for the municipal government in the Soviet sector.\n\nOn 24 June, the Soviets severed land and water connections between the non-Soviet zones and Berlin. That same day, they halted all rail and barge traffic in and out of Berlin. The West answered by introducing a counter-blockade, stopping all rail traffic into East Germany from the British and US zones. Over the following months this counter-blockade would have a damaging impact on East Germany, as the drying up of coal and steel shipments seriously hindered industrial development in the Soviet zone. On 25 June, the Soviets stopped supplying food to the civilian population in the non-Soviet sectors of Berlin. Motor traffic from Berlin to the western zones was permitted, but this required a detour to a ferry crossing because of alleged \"repairs\" to a bridge. They also cut off the electricity relied on by Berlin, using their control over the generating plants in the Soviet zone.\n\nSurface traffic from non-Soviet zones to Berlin was blockaded, leaving open only the air corridors. The Soviets rejected arguments that the occupation rights in the non-Soviet sectors of Berlin and the use of the supply routes during the previous three years had given Britain, France and the United States a legal claim to use of the highways, tunnels, railroads, and canals. Relying on Soviet goodwill after the war, Britain, France, and the United States had never negotiated an agreement with the Soviets to guarantee these land-based rights of access to Berlin through the Soviet zone.\n\nAt the time, West Berlin had 36 days' worth of food, and 45 days' worth of coal. Militarily, the Americans and British were greatly outnumbered because of the postwar scaling back of their armies. The United States, like other western countries, had disbanded most of its troops and was largely inferior in the European theatre. The entire United States Army had been reduced to 552,000 men by February 1948. Military forces in the western sectors of Berlin numbered only 8,973 Americans, 7,606 British and 6,100 French. Of the 98,000 American troops in West Germany in March 1948, only 31,000 were combat forces, and only one reserve division was immediately available in the United States. Soviet military forces in the Soviet sector that surrounded Berlin totaled 1.5 million. The two United States regiments in Berlin could have provided little resistance against a Soviet attack. Because of the imbalance, U.S. war plans were based on using hundreds of atomic bombs, but only about 50 Fat Man-specification bombs, the only version available to the US military, existed in mid-1948. In March 1948, only 35 \"Silverplate\" atomic-capable Boeing B-29 Superfortress bombers—just over half of the 65 \"Silverplate\" specification B-29 aircraft built through the end of 1947—and a few trained flight and assembly crews were available. Three B-29 groups arrived in Europe in July and August 1948. Despite the intention to signal the threat of the West's ability to retaliate with nuclear weapons if necessary, the Soviets possibly knew that none of the bombers were atomic-capable. The first Silverplate bombers only arrived to Europe near the end of the crisis in April 1949.\n\nGeneral Lucius D. Clay, in charge of the U.S. Occupation Zone in Germany, summed up the reasons for not retreating in a cable to Washington, D.C. on 13 June 1948: \"There is no practicability in maintaining our position in Berlin and it must not be evaluated on that basis... We are convinced that our remaining in Berlin is essential to our prestige in Germany and in Europe. Whether for good or bad, it has become a symbol of the American intent.\"\n\nBelieving that Britain, France, and the United States had little option than to acquiesce, the Soviet Military Administration in Germany celebrated the beginning of the blockade. General Clay felt that the Soviets were bluffing about Berlin since they would not want to be viewed as starting a Third World War. He believed that Stalin did not want a war and that Soviet actions were aimed at exerting military and political pressure on the West to obtain concessions, relying on the West's prudence and unwillingness to provoke a war. Commander of United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) General Curtis LeMay reportedly favoured an aggressive response to the blockade, in which his B-29s with fighter escort would approach Soviet air bases while ground troops attempted to reach Berlin; Washington vetoed the plan.\n\nAlthough the ground routes had never been negotiated, the same was not true of the air. On 30 November 1945, it had been agreed in writing that there would be three twenty-mile-wide air corridors providing free access to Berlin. Additionally, unlike a force of tanks and trucks, the Soviets could not claim that cargo aircraft were a military threat. In the face of unarmed aircraft refusing to turn around, the only way to enforce the blockade would have been to shoot them down. An airlift would put the Soviet Union in the position of either shooting down unarmed humanitarian aircraft, thus breaking their own agreements, or backing down.\n\nThe airlift option critically depended on scale and effectiveness. If the supplies could not be flown in fast enough, Soviet help would eventually be needed to prevent starvation. Clay was told to take advice from General LeMay to see if an airlift was possible. Initially taken aback by the inquiry, which was \"Can you haul coal?\", LeMay replied \"We can haul anything.\"\n\nWhen American forces consulted Britain's Royal Air Force (RAF) about a possible joint airlift, they learned the RAF was already running an airlift in support of British troops in Berlin. General Clay's counterpart, General Sir Brian Robertson, was ready with some concrete numbers. During the \"Little Lift\" in April 1948, British Air Commodore Reginald Waite had calculated the resources required to support the entire city.\n\nThe American military government, based on a minimum daily ration of 1,990 kilocalories (July 1948), set a total of daily supplies needed at 646 tons of flour and wheat, 125 tons of cereal, 64 tons of fat, 109 tons of meat and fish, 180 tons of dehydrated potatoes, 180 tons of sugar, 11 tons of coffee, 19 tons of powdered milk, 5 tons of whole milk for children, 3 tons of fresh yeast for baking, 144 tons of dehydrated vegetables, 38 tons of salt and 10 tons of cheese. In all, 1,534 tons were required each day to sustain the over two million people of Berlin. Additionally, for heat and power, 3,475 tons of coal, diesel and petrol were also required daily.\n\nCarrying all this in would not be easy. The postwar demobilisation left the US forces in Europe with only two groups of C-47 Skytrain transports (the military version of the Douglas DC-3, which the British called \"Dakota\"), nominally 96 aircraft, each of which could carry about 3.5 tons of cargo. LeMay believed that \"with an all-out effort\" of 100 daily round trips these would be able to haul about 300 tons of supplies a day. The RAF was somewhat better prepared, since it had already moved some aircraft into the German area, and they expected to be able to supply about 400 tons a day.\n\nThis was not nearly enough to move the 5,000 tons a day that would be needed, but these numbers could be increased as new aircraft arrived from the United Kingdom, the United States, and France. The RAF would be relied on to increase its numbers quickly. It could fly additional aircraft in from Britain in a single hop, bringing the RAF fleet to about 150 Dakotas and 40 of the larger Avro Yorks with a 10-ton payload.\n\nWith this fleet, the British contribution was expected to rise to 750 tons a day in the short term, a month, but even that at the cost of suspending all air traffic except for the airlift to Berlin and Warsaw. For a longer-term operation, the US would have to add additional aircraft as soon as possible, and those would have to be as large as possible while still able to fly into the Berlin airports. Only one aircraft type was suitable, the four-engined C-54 Skymaster and its US Navy equivalent, the R5D, of which the US military had approximately 565, with 268 Air Force and Navy Skymasters in MATS, 168 in the troop carrier groups, and 80 Navy R5Ds in miscellaneous commands. Planners calculated that including C-54s already ordered to Germany and drawing on those flying with civilian carriers, 447 Skymasters could be available for an \"extreme emergency.\"\n\nGiven the feasibility assessment made by the British, an airlift appeared to be the best course of action. One remaining concern was the population of Berlin. Clay called in Ernst Reuter, the mayor-elect of Berlin, accompanied by his aide, Willy Brandt. Clay told Reuter, \"Look, I am ready to try an airlift. I can't guarantee it will work. I am sure that even at its best, people are going to be cold and people are going to be hungry. And if the people of Berlin won't stand that, it will fail. And I don't want to go into this unless I have your assurance that the people will be heavily in approval.\" Reuter, although skeptical, assured Clay that Berlin would make all the necessary sacrifices and that the Berliners would support his actions.\n\nGeneral Albert Wedemeyer, the US Army Chief of Plans and Operations, was in Europe on an inspection tour when the crisis broke out. He had been the commander of the US China Burma India Theater in 1944–45 and he had a detailed knowledge of the previously-largest airlift—the World War II American airlift from India over the Hump of the Himalayas to China. His endorsement of the airlift option gave it a major boost. The British and Americans agreed to start a joint operation without delay; the US action was dubbed \"Operation Vittles,\" while the British action was called \"Operation Plainfare\". The Australian contribution to the airlift, begun in September 1948, was designated \"Operation Pelican.\"\n\nThe British asked Canada to contribute planes and crews. It refused, primarily on the grounds that the operation risked war and Canada had not been consulted.\n\nOn 24 June 1948 LeMay appointed Brigadier General Joseph Smith, headquarters commandant for USAFE at Camp Lindsey, as the Provisional Task Force Commander of the airlift. Smith had been chief of staff in LeMay's B-29 command in India during World War II and had no airlift experience. On 25 June 1948 Clay gave the order to launch Operation Vittles. The next day 32 C-47s lifted off for Berlin hauling 80 tons of cargo, including milk, flour, and medicine. The first British aircraft flew on 28 June. At that time, the airlift was expected to last three weeks. \n\nOn 27 June, Clay cabled William Draper with an estimate of the current situation:\nBy 1 July, the system was getting under way. C-54s were starting to arrive in quantity, and Rhein-Main Air Base became exclusively a C-54 hub, while Wiesbaden retained a mix of C-54s and C-47s. Aircraft flew northeast through the American air corridor into Tempelhof Airport, then returned due west flying out on through the British air corridor. After reaching the British Zone, they turned south to return to their bases. \n\nThe British ran a similar system, flying southeast from several airports in the Hamburg area through their second corridor into RAF Gatow in the British Sector, and then also returning out on the center corridor, turning for home or landing at Hanover. However, unlike the Americans, the British also ran some round-trips, using their southeast corridor. To save time many flights didn't land in Berlin, instead air dropping material, such as coal, into the airfields. On 6 July the Yorks and Dakotas were joined by Short Sunderland flying boats. Flying from Finkenwerder on the Elbe near Hamburg to the Havel river next to Gatow, their corrosion-resistant hulls suited them to the particular task of delivering baking powder and other salt into the city.\n\nAccommodating the large number of flights to Berlin of dissimilar aircraft with widely varying flight characteristics required close co-ordination. Smith and his staff developed a complex timetable for flights called the \"block system\": three eight-hour shifts of a C-54 section to Berlin followed by a C-47 section. Aircraft were scheduled to take off every four minutes, flying 1,000 feet higher than the flight in front. This pattern began at 5,000 feet and was repeated five times. (This system of stacked inbound serials was later dubbed \"the ladder.\")\n\nDuring the first week the airlift averaged only ninety tons a day, but by the second week it reached 1,000 tons. This likely would have sufficed had the effort lasted only a few weeks, as originally believed. The Communist press in East Berlin ridiculed the project. It derisively referred to \"the futile attempts of the Americans to save face and to maintain their untenable position in Berlin.\"\n\nDespite the excitement engendered by glamorous publicity extolling the work (and over-work) of the crews and the daily increase of tonnage levels, the airlift was not close to being operated to its capability because USAFE was a tactical organisation without any airlift expertise. Maintenance was barely adequate, crews were not being efficiently used, transports stood idle and disused, necessary record-keeping was scant, and ad hoc flight crews of publicity-seeking desk personnel were disrupting a business-like atmosphere. This was recognised by the United States National Security Council at a meeting with Clay on 22 July 1948, when it became clear that a long-term airlift was necessary. Wedemeyer immediately recommended that the deputy commander for operations of the Military Air Transport Service (MATS), Maj. Gen. William H. Tunner, command the operation. When Wedemeyer had been the commander of US forces in China during World War II, Tunner, as commander of the India-China Division of the Air Transport Command, had reorganised the Hump airlift between India and China, doubling the tonnage and hours flown. USAF Chief of Staff Hoyt S. Vandenberg endorsed the recommendation.\n\nOn 28 July 1948, Tunner arrived in Wiesbaden to take over the operation. He revamped the entire airlift operation, reaching an agreement with LeMay to form the \"Combined Air Lift Task Force\" (CALTF) to control both the USAFE and RAF lift operations from a central location, which went into effect in mid-October 1948. MATS immediately deployed eight squadrons of C-54s—72 aircraft to Wiesbaden and Rhein-Main Air Base to reinforce the 54 already in operation, the first by 30 July and the remainder by mid-August, and two-thirds of all C-54 aircrew worldwide began transferring to Germany to allot three crews per aircraft.\n\nTwo weeks after his arrival, on 13 August, Tunner decided to fly to Berlin to grant an award to Lt. Paul O. Lykins, an airlift pilot who had made the most flights into Berlin up to that time, a symbol of the entire effort to date. Cloud cover over Berlin dropped to the height of the buildings, and heavy rain showers made radar visibility poor. A C-54 crashed and burned at the end of the runway, and a second one landing behind it burst its tires while trying to avoid it. A third transport ground looped after mistakenly landing on a runway under construction. In accordance with the standard procedures then in effect, all incoming transports including Tunner's, arriving every three minutes, were stacked above Berlin by air traffic control from to in bad weather, creating an extreme risk of mid-air collision. Newly unloaded planes were denied permission to take off to avoid that possibility and created a backup on the ground. While no one was killed, Tunner was embarrassed that the control tower at Tempelhof had lost control of the situation while the commander of the airlift was circling overhead. Tunner radioed for all stacked aircraft except his to be sent home immediately. This became known as \"Black Friday,\" and Tunner personally noted it was from that date that the success of the airlift stemmed.\n\nAs a result of Black Friday, Tunner instituted a number of new rules; instrument flight rules (IFR) would be in effect at all times, regardless of actual visibility, and each sortie would have only one chance to land in Berlin, returning to its air base if it missed its approach, where it was slotted back into the flow. Stacking was completely eliminated. With straight-in approaches, the planners found that in the time it had taken to unstack and land nine aircraft, 30 aircraft could be landed, bringing in 300 tons. Accident rates and delays dropped immediately. Tunner decided, as he had done during the Hump operation, to replace the C-47s in the airlift with C-54s or larger aircraft when it was realised that it took just as long to unload a 3.5-ton C-47 as a 10-ton C-54. One of the reasons for this was the sloping cargo floor of the \"taildragger\" C-47s, which made truck loading difficult. The tricycle geared C-54's cargo deck was level, so that a truck could back up to it and offload cargo quickly. The change went into full effect after 28 September 1948.\n\nHaving noticed on his first inspection trip to Berlin on 31 July that there were long delays as the flight crews returned to their aircraft after getting refreshments from the terminal, Tunner banned aircrew from leaving their aircraft for any reason while in Berlin. Instead, he equipped as mobile snack bars, handing out refreshments to the crews at their aircraft while it was being unloaded. Gail Halvorsen later noted, \"he put some beautiful German Fräuleins in that snack bar. They knew we couldn't date them, we had no time. So they were very friendly.\" Operations officers handed pilots their clearance slips and other information while they ate. With unloading beginning as soon as engines were shut down on the ramp, turnaround before takeoff back to Rhein-Main or Wiesbaden was reduced to thirty minutes.\nTo maximise the utilisation of a limited number of aircraft, Tunner altered the \"ladder\" to three minutes and of separation, stacked from to . Maintenance, particularly adherence to 25-hour, 200-hour, and 1,000-hour inspections, became the highest priority and further maximised utilisation. Tunner also shortened block times to six hours to squeeze in another shift, making 1,440 (the number of minutes in a day) landings in Berlin a daily goal. His purpose, illustrating his basic philosophy of the airlift business, was to create a \"conveyor belt\" approach to scheduling that could be sped up or slowed down as situations might dictate. The most effective measure taken by Tunner, and the most initially resisted until it demonstrated its efficiency, was creation of a single control point in the CALTF for controlling all air movements into Berlin, rather than each air force doing its own.\n\nThe Berliners themselves solved the problem of the lack of manpower. Crews unloading and making airfield repairs at the Berlin airports were made up of almost entirely by local civilians, who were given additional rations in return. As the crews increased in experience, the times for unloading continued to fall, with a record set for the unloading of an entire 10-ton shipment of coal from a C-54 in ten minutes, later beaten when a twelve-man crew unloaded the same quantity in five minutes and 45 seconds.\n\nBy the end of August 1948, after two months, the Airlift was succeeding; daily operations flew more than 1,500 flights a day and delivered more than 4,500 tons of cargo, enough to keep West Berlin supplied. From January 1949 onwards, 225 C-54s (40% of USAF and USN Skymasters worldwide) were devoted to the lift. Supplies improved to 5,000 tons a day.\n\nGail Halvorsen, one of the many Airlift pilots, decided to use his off-time to fly into Berlin and make movies with his hand-held camera. He arrived at Tempelhof on 17 July 1948 on one of the C-54s and walked over to a crowd of children who had gathered at the end of the runway to watch the aircraft. He introduced himself and they started to ask him questions about the aircraft and their flights. As a goodwill gesture, he handed out his only two sticks of Wrigley's Doublemint Gum. The children quickly divided up the pieces as best they could, even passing around the wrapper for others to smell. He was so impressed by their gratitude and that they didn't fight over them, that he promised the next time he returned he would drop off more. Before he left them, a child asked him how they would know it was him flying over. He replied, \"I'll wiggle my wings.\"\nThe next day on his approach to Berlin, he rocked the aircraft and dropped some chocolate bars attached to a handkerchief parachute to the children waiting below. Every day after that, the number of children increased and he made several more drops. Soon, there was a stack of mail in Base Ops addressed to \"Uncle Wiggly Wings\", \"The Chocolate Uncle\" and \"The Chocolate Flier\". His commanding officer was upset when the story appeared in the news, but when Tunner heard about it, he approved of the gesture and immediately expanded it into \"Operation Little Vittles\". Other pilots participated, and when news reached the US, children all over the country sent in their own candy to help out. Soon, major candy manufacturers joined in. In the end, over twenty three tons of candy were dropped on Berlin and the \"operation\" became a major propaganda success. German children christened the candy-dropping aircraft \"raisin bombers\".\n\nThe Soviets had an advantage in conventional military forces, but were preoccupied with rebuilding their war-torn economy and society. The US had a stronger navy and air force, and had nuclear weapons. Neither side wanted a war; the Soviets did not disrupt the airlift.\n\nAs the tempo of the Airlift grew, it became apparent that the Western powers might be able to pull off the impossible: indefinitely supplying an entire city by air alone. In response, starting on 1 August 1948, the Soviets offered free food to anyone who crossed into East Berlin and registered their ration cards there, but West Berliners overwhelmingly rejected Soviet offers of food.\n\nThroughout the airlift, Soviet and German communists subjected the hard-pressed West Berliners to sustained psychological warfare. In radio broadcasts, they relentlessly proclaimed that all Berlin came under Soviet authority and predicted the imminent abandonment of the city by the Western occupying powers. The Soviets also harassed members of the democratically elected citywide administration, which had to conduct its business in the city hall located in the Soviet sector.\n\nDuring the early months of the airlift, the Soviets used various methods to harass allied aircraft. These included buzzing by Soviet planes, obstructive parachute jumps within the corridors, and shining searchlights to dazzle pilots at night. Although the USAFE reported 733 separate harassing events, including flak, air-to-air fire, rocketing, bombing, and explosions, this is now considered to be exaggerated. None of these measures were effective. Former RAF Dakota pilot Dick Arscott described one \"buzzing\" incident. \"Yaks (Soviet plane) used to come and buzz you and go over the top of you at about twenty feet which can be off putting. One day I was buzzed about three times. The following day it started again and he came across twice and I got a bit fed up with it. So when he came for the third time, I turned the aircraft into him and it was a case of chicken, luckily he was the one who chickened out.\" \n\nIn the autumn of 1948 it became impossible for the non-Communist majority in Greater Berlin's citywide parliament to attend sessions at city hall within the Soviet sector. The parliament (\"Stadtverordnetenversammlung von Groß-Berlin\") had been elected under the provisional constitution of Berlin two years earlier (20 October 1946). As SED-controlled policemen looked on passively, Communist-led mobs repeatedly invaded the \"Neues Stadthaus\", the provisional city hall (located on Parochialstraße since all other central municipal buildings had been destroyed in the War), interrupted the parliament's sessions, and physically menaced its non-Communist members. The Kremlin organised an attempted putsch for control of all of Berlin through a 6 September takeover of the city hall by SED members.\n\nThree days later RIAS Radio urged Berliners to protest against the actions of the communists. On 9 September 1948 a crowd of 500,000 people gathered at the Brandenburg Gate, next to the ruined Reichstag in the British sector. The Airlift was working so far, but many West Berliners feared that the Allies would eventually discontinue it. Then-SPD city councillor Ernst Reuter took the microphone and pleaded for his city, \"You peoples of the world, you people of America, of England, of France, look on this city, and recognise that this city, this people, must not be abandoned—cannot be abandoned!\".\n\nThe crowd surged towards the Soviet-occupied sector and someone climbed up and ripped down the Soviet flag flying from atop the Brandenburg Gate. Soviet military police (MPs) quickly responded, resulted in the killing of one in the unruly crowd. The tense situation could have escalated further and ended up in more bloodshed but a British deputy provost then intervened and pointedly pushed the Soviet MPs back with his swagger stick. Never before this incident had so many Berliners gathered in unity. The resonance worldwide was enormous, notably in the United States, where a strong feeling of solidarity with Berliners reinforced a general widespread determination not to abandon them.\n\nBerlin's parliament decided to meet instead in the canteen of the Technical College of Berlin-Charlottenburg in the British sector, boycotted by the members of SED, which had gained 19.8% of the electoral votes in 1946. On 30 November 1948 the SED gathered its elected parliament members and 1,100 further activists and held an unconstitutional so-called \"extraordinary city assembly\" (\"außerordentliche Stadtverordnetenversammlung\") in East Berlin's Metropol-Theater which declared the elected city government (\"Magistrat\") and its democratically-elected city councillors to be deposed and replaced it with a new one led by Oberbürgermeister Friedrich Ebert Jr. and consisting only of Communists. This arbitrary act had no legal effect in West Berlin, but the Soviet occupants prevented the elected city government for all of Berlin from further acting in the eastern sector.\n\nThe city parliament, boycotted by its SED members, then voted for its re-election on 5 December 1948, however, inhibited in the eastern sector and defamed by the SED as a \"Spalterwahl\" (\"divisive election\"). The SED did not nominate any candidates for this election and appealed to the electorate in the western sectors to boycott the election, while the democratic parties ran for seats. The turnout amounted to 86.3% of the western electorate with the SPD gaining 64.5% of the votes (= 76 seats), the CDU 19.4% (= 26 seats), and the Liberal-Demokratische Partei (LDP, merged in the FDP in 1949) 16.1% (= 17 seats).\n\nOn 7 December the new, \"de facto\" West-Berlin-only city parliament elected a new city government in West Berlin headed by Lord Mayor Reuter, who had already once been elected lord mayor in early 1946 but prevented from taking office by a Soviet veto. Thus two separate city governments officiated in the city divided into East and West versions of its former self. In the east, a communist system supervised by house, street, and block wardens was quickly implemented.\n\nWest Berlin's parliament accounted for the \"de facto\" political partition of Berlin and replaced the provisional constitution of Berlin by the \"Verfassung von Berlin\" (constitution of Berlin), meant for all Berlin, with effect of 1 October 1950 and \"de facto\" restricted to the western sectors only, also renaming city parliament (from \"Stadtverordnetenversammlung von Groß-Berlin\" to \"Abgeordnetenhaus von Berlin\"), city government (from \"Magistrat von Groß-Berlin\" to Senate of Berlin), and head of government (from \"Oberbürgermeister\" to Governing Mayor of Berlin).\n\nAlthough the early estimates were that about 4,000 to 5,000 tons per day would be needed to supply the city, this was made in the context of summer weather, when the Airlift was only expected to last a few weeks. As the operation dragged on into autumn, the situation changed considerably. The food requirements would remain the same (around 1,500 tons), but the need for additional coal to heat the city dramatically increased the total amount of cargo to be transported by an additional 6,000 tons a day.\n\nTo maintain the Airlift under these conditions, the current system would have to be greatly expanded. Aircraft were available, and the British started adding their larger Handley Page Hastings in November, but maintaining the fleet proved to be a serious problem. Tunner looked to the Germans once again, hiring (plentiful) ex-Luftwaffe ground crews.\nAnother problem was the lack of runways in Berlin to land on: two at Tempelhof and one at Gatow—neither of which was designed to support the loads the C-54s were putting on them. All of the existing runways required hundreds of labourers, who ran onto them between landings and dumped sand into the runway's Marston Mat (pierced steel planking) to soften the surface and help the planking survive. Since this system could not endure through the winter, between July and September 1948 a 6,000 ft.-long asphalt runway was constructed at Tempelhof.\n\nFar from ideal, with the approach being over Berlin's apartment blocks, the runway nevertheless was a major upgrade to the airport's capabilities. With it in place, the auxiliary runway was upgraded from Marston Matting to asphalt between September and October 1948. A similar upgrade program was carried out by the British at Gatow during the same period, also adding a second runway, using concrete.\n\nThe French Air Force, meanwhile, had become involved in the First Indochina War, so it could only bring up some old Junkers Ju 52s to support its own troops and they were too small and slow to be of much help. However, France agreed to build a complete, new and larger airport in its sector on the shores of Lake Tegel. French military engineers, managing German construction crews, were able to complete the construction in under 90 days. The airport was mostly built by hand, by thousands of mostly female labourers who worked day and night.\n\nHeavy equipment was needed to level the ground, equipment that was too large and heavy to fly in on any existing cargo aircraft. The solution was to dismantle large machines and then re-assemble them. Using the five largest American C-82 Packet transports, it was possible to fly the machinery into West Berlin. This not only helped to build the airfield, but also demonstrated that the Soviet blockade could not keep anything out of Berlin. The Tegel airfield was subsequently developed into Berlin Tegel Airport.\n\nTo improve air traffic control, which would be critical as the number of flights grew, the newly developed Ground Controlled Approach radar system (GCA) was flown to Europe for installation at Tempelhof, with a second set installed at Fassberg in the British Zone in West Germany. With the installation of GCA, all-weather airlift operations were assured.\n\nNone of these efforts could fix the weather, which became the biggest problem. November and December 1948 proved to be the worst months of the airlift operation. One of the longest-lasting fogs ever experienced in Berlin blanketed the entire European continent for weeks. All too often, aircraft would make the entire flight and then be unable to land in Berlin. On 20 November 1948, 42 aircraft departed for Berlin, but only one landed there. At one point, the city had only a week's supply of coal left. However, the weather eventually improved, and more than 171,000 tons were delivered in January 1949, 152,000 tons in February, and 196,223 tons in March.\n\nBy April 1949, airlift operations were running smoothly and Tunner wanted to shake up his command to discourage complacency. He believed in the spirit of competition between units and, coupled with the idea of a big event, felt that this would encourage them to greater efforts. He decided that, on Easter Sunday, the airlift would break all records. To do this, maximum efficiency was needed and so, to simplify cargo-handling, only coal would be airlifted. Coal stockpiles were built up for the effort and maintenance schedules were altered so that the maximum number of aircraft were available.\n\nFrom noon on 15 April to noon on 16 April 1949, crews worked around the clock. When it was over, 12,941 tons of coal had been delivered in 1,383 flights, without a single accident. A welcome side effect of the effort was that operations in general were boosted, and tonnage increased from 6,729 tons to 8,893 tons per day thereafter. In total, the airlift delivered 234,476 tons in April.\n\nOn 21 April, the tonnage of supplies flown into the city exceeded that previously brought by rail.\n\nOn 15 April 1949, the Soviet news agency TASS reported a willingness by the Soviets to lift the blockade. The next day, the US State Department stated that the \"way appears clear\" for the blockade to end. Soon afterwards, the four powers began serious negotiations, and a settlement was reached on Western terms. On 4 May 1949, the Allies announced an agreement to end the blockade in eight days.\n\nThe Soviet blockade of Berlin was lifted at one minute after midnight on 12 May 1949. A British convoy immediately drove through to Berlin, and the first train from West Germany reached Berlin at 5:32 A.M. Later that day, an enormous crowd celebrated the end of the blockade. General Clay, whose retirement had been announced by US President Truman on 3 May 1949, was saluted by 11,000 US soldiers and dozens of aircraft. Once home, Clay received a ticker tape parade in New York City, was invited to address the US Congress, and was honoured with a medal from President Truman.\n\nNevertheless, supply flights to Berlin continued for some time to build up a comfortable surplus, though night flying and then weekend flights could be eliminated once the surplus was large enough. By 24 July 1949, three months' worth of supplies had been amassed, ensuring that there was ample time to restart the Airlift if needed.\n\nOn 18 August 1949, Flt Lt Roy Mather DFC AFC and his crew of Flt Lt Roy Lewis Stewart Hathaway AFC, Flt Lt Richardson and Royston William Marshall AFM of 206 squadron, flew back to Wunstorf for the 404th time during the blockade, the record number of flights for any pilot of any nationality, either civilian or military.\n\nThe Berlin Airlift officially ended on 30 September 1949, after fifteen months. In total, the USAF delivered 1,783,573 tons and the RAF 541,937 tons, totalling 2,326,406 tons, nearly two-thirds of which was coal, on 278,228 flights to Berlin. The Royal Australian Air Force delivered 7,968 tons of freight and 6,964 passengers during 2,062 sorties. The C-47s and C-54s together flew over 92 million miles in the process, almost the distance from Earth to the Sun. At the height of the Airlift, one plane reached West Berlin every thirty seconds.\n\nPilots came from the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa.\n\nA total of 101 fatalities were recorded as a result of the operation, including 40 Britons and 31 Americans, mostly due to non-flying accidents. One Royal Australian Air Force member was killed in an aircraft crash at Lubeck while attached to No. 27 Squadron RAF. Seventeen American and eight British aircraft crashed during the operation.\n\nThe cost of the Airlift was shared between the US, UK, and Germany. Estimated costs range from approximately US$224 million to over US$500 million (equivalent to approximately $ to $ now).\n\nOperational control of the three Allied air corridors was assigned to BARTCC (Berlin Air Route Traffic Control Center) air traffic control located at Tempelhof. Diplomatic approval was granted by a four-power organisation called the Berlin Air Safety Center, also located in the American sector.\n\nTegel was developed into West Berlin's principal airport. In 2007, it was joined by a re-developed Berlin-Schönefeld International Airport in Brandenburg. As a result of the development of these two airports, Tempelhof was closed in October 2008, while Gatow is now home of the Museum of the German Luftwaffe and a housing development. During the 1970s and 1980s Schönefeld had its own crossing points through the Berlin Wall and communist fortifications for western citizens.\n\nThe Soviets' contravention by the blockade of the agreement reached by the London 6-Power Conference, and the Czechoslovak coup d'état of 1948, convinced Western leaders that they had to take swift and decisive measures to strengthen the portions of Germany not occupied by the Soviets..\n\nThe US, British and French authorities also agreed to replace their military administrations in their occupation zones with High Commissioners operating within the terms of a three-power occupation statute. The Blockade also helped to unify German politicians in these zones in support of the creation of a West German state; some of them had hitherto been fearful of Soviet opposition. The blockade also increased the perception among many Europeans that the Soviets posed a danger, helping to prompt the entry into NATO of Portugal, Iceland, Italy, Denmark, and Norway.\n\nAnimosities between Germans and the Western Allies—Britain, France, and the United States—were greatly reduced by the airlift, with the former enemies recognising common interests, namely freedom and capitalism, shared values and mutual respect. Although this may have just been a \"The Enemy of my Enemy is my Friend\" situation seeing as only a couple of years earlier Soviet forces had ravaged the city. The Soviets refused to return to the Allied Control Council in Berlin, rendering the four-power occupation authority set up at the Potsdam Conference useless. It has been argued that the events of the Berlin Blockade are proof that the Allies conducted their affairs within a rational framework, since they were keen to avoid war.\n\nIn the early days, the Americans used their C-47 Skytrain or its civilian counterpart Douglas DC-3. These machines could carry a payload of up to 3.5 tons, but were replaced by C-54 Skymasters and Douglas DC-4s, which could carry up to 10 tons and were faster. These made up a total of 330 aircraft, which made them the most used types. Other American aircraft such as the five C-82 Packets, and the one YC-97A Stratofreighter 45-59595, with a payload of 20 tons—a gigantic load for that time—were only sparsely used.\n\nThe British used a considerable variety of aircraft types. Many aircraft were either former bombers or civil versions of bombers. In the absence of enough transports, the British chartered many civilian aircraft. British European Airways (BEA) coordinated all British civil aircraft operations. Apart from BEA itself, the participating airlines included British Overseas Airways Corporation (BOAC) and most British independent airlines of that era—e.g. Eagle Aviation, Silver City Airways, British South American Airways (BSAA), the Lancashire Aircraft Corporation, Airwork, Air Flight, Aquila Airways, Flight Refuelling Ltd (which used their Lancaster tankers to deliver aviation fuel), Skyways, Scottish Airlines and Ciro's Aviation.\n\nAltogether, BEA was responsible to the RAF for the direction and operation of 25 British airlines taking part in \"Operation Plainfare\". The British also used flying boats, particularly for transporting corrosive salt. These included civilian aircraft operated by Aquila Airways. These took off and landed on water and were designed to be corrosion-resistant. In winter, when ice covered the Berlin rivers and made the use of flying boats difficult, the British used other aircraft in their place.\n\nAltogether, a total of 692 aircraft were engaged in the Berlin Airlift, more than 100 of which belonged to civilian operators. \n\nOther aircraft included Junkers Ju 52/3m which were operated briefly by France.\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "25126743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25126743", "title": "Bodø affair", "text": "Bodø affair\n\nThe Bodø affair was a diplomatic scandal involving Sweden-Norway (then a dual monarchy) and the United Kingdom, which lasted from 1818 to 1821. The affair arose over the illegal trading activities of an English company in the Norwegian port of Bodø, where Norwegian officials in 1818 seized a large cargo belonging to the company and arrested one of its owners, who later escaped. The Stockholm foreign ministry, which handled the foreign affairs of Norway at that time, seemed unreasonably favorable to British claims over the Bodø incident, thereby angering Norwegians and arousing their nationalism. In 1821 compensation was paid to the British company over Norwegian objections. While of minor importance in itself, the incident led to a lasting distrust among Norwegians of the Swedish foreign ministry.\n"}
{"id": "8727319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8727319", "title": "Cat-burning", "text": "Cat-burning\n\nCat burning was a form of entertainment in France prior to the 1800s. In this form of entertainment, people would gather dozens of cats in a net and hoist them high into the air from a special bundle onto a bonfire causing death through the effects of combustion, or effects of exposure to extreme heat. In the medieval and early modern periods, cats, which were associated with vanity and witchcraft, were sometimes burned as symbols of the Devil.\n\nAccording to Norman Davies, the assembled people \"shrieked with laughter as the animals, howling with pain, were singed, roasted, and finally carbonized\".\n\nJames Frazer wrote: \"It was the custom to burn a basket, barrel, or sack full of live cats, which was hung from a tall mast in the midst of the bonfire; sometimes a fox was burned. The people collected the embers and ashes of the fire and took them home, believing that they brought good luck. The French kings often witnessed these spectacles and even lit the bonfire with their own hands. In 1648 Louis XIV, crowned with a wreath of roses and carrying a bunch of roses in his hand, kindled the fire, danced at it and partook of the banquet afterwards in the town hall. But this was the last occasion when a monarch presided at the midsummer bonfire in Paris. At Metz midsummer fires were lighted with great pomp on the esplanade, and a dozen cats, enclosed in wicker cages, were burned alive in them, to the amusement of the people. Similarly at Gap, in the department of the Hautes-Alpes, cats used to be roasted over the midsummer bonfire.\"\n\nCat-burning was also described in \"The Great Cat Massacre\", a scholarly work by American historian Robert Darnton:\nCats also figured in the cycle of Saint John the Baptist, which took place on June 24, at the time of summer solstice. Crowds made bonfires, jumped over them, danced around them, and threw into them objects with magical power, hoping to avoid disaster and obtain good fortune during the rest of the year. A favorite object was cats—cats tied up in bags, cats suspended from ropes, or cats burned at stake. Parisians liked to incinerate cats by the sackful, while the Courimauds (or \"cour à miaud\" or cat chasers) of Saint Chamond preferred to chase a flaming cat through the streets. In parts of Burgundy and Lorraine they danced around a kind of burning May pole with a cat tied to it. In the Metz region they burned a dozen cats at a time in a basket on top of a bonfire. The ceremony took place with great pomp in Metz itself, until it was abolished in 1765. ... Although the practice varied from place to place, the ingredients were everywhere the same: a \"feu de joie\" (bonfire), cats, and an aura of hilarious witch-hunting. Wherever the scent of burning felines could be found, a smile was sure to follow.\n\nCat-burning was the subject of a 1758 text from the Benedictine Dom Jean François, \"Dissertation sur l’ancien usage des feux de la Saint-Jean, et d’y brûler les chats à Metz\", recently published.\n\nJean Meslier, a French Catholic priest who privately held atheist views, briefly mentioned the practice of cat burning in his \"Testament\" as follows:\nAmong other things, these mischievous, brutal madmen make [the cats] cruelly suffer harsh and violent tortures in their entertainments and even in public celebrations; they tie up nipping cats to the end of some pole they set up and at the bottom of which they light the fires of joy where they burn them alive to have the pleasure of seeing the violent movements and hearing the frightening cries that these poor unfortunate beasts are forced to make because of the harshness and violence of the tortures.\n\nMeslier largely attributed these customs to Cartesian philosophy, wherein non-human animals were viewed as possessing no soul, and thus, no sentience. He posited that this \"tends to stifle in the heart of man all feelings of gentleness, kindness, and compassion that they may have for beasts ...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21860613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21860613", "title": "Cesare (manga)", "text": "Cesare (manga)\n\nIn creating \"Cesare\", Souryo has collaborated with a Dante scholar to bring to life a vivid portrait of Renaissance Italy in great and accurate detail.\n\nCesare is about the life of one of history's most enigmatic figures, Cesare Borgia, an aristocrat during the Renaissance Italy. The manga takes an intimate look at Cesare's life during his matriculation at the University of Pisa, at the age of 15, in the years preceding his appointment as a cardinal of the Holy See.\n\nCesare Borgia: Installed at Pisa by his father Rodrigo Borgia, a cardinal, purportedly to earn his doctorate in theology. However, it is soon made obvious that Cesare's presence in Pisa is engineered by his father in order to support the rise of the Borgia family in power and the impending ascension of Rodrigo Borgia to the papacy.\n\nMichelotto da Corella: Cesare's faithful right-hand man. An orphaned Sephardi Jew who was taken into Rodrigo Borgia's household, and of an age with Cesare.\n\nAngelo da Canossa: A new student at Pisa, Angelo proves to be a fish out of water. Having lived a sheltered life with his grandfather in a remote province, he retains a social clumsiness that gets him in trouble at his first day in school. It is only through Cesare's timely intervention that Angelo begins to realize his awkward and lackadaisical upbringing. It is through the eyes of Angelo that we primarily learn Cesare's multifaceted motivations and the beginnings of his ambitions.\n\nCesare's life and world overlaps with the politics of his father and his father's allies and enemies.\n\nRodrigo Borgia: The Borgias, who were based in Valencia, Spain, were known to be ruthless in the pursuit of their ambitions. Although a cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church, and by rule forbidden to marry or have children due to the clerical vow of celibacy, he acknowledged Cesare as well as some of his illegitimate children and used their talents to perpetuate the power of the Borgias throughout Europe and support him in his rise as Pope Alexander VI.\n\nGiuliano della Rovere: A cardinal and chief rival of Rodrigo Borgia for the papacy. Related to the Pazzi Conspiracy, of which a prominent member of the Medici family was murdered. He is a real historical figure.\n\nRaffaele Riario: Related to the Roveres through ties of marriage, he is allegedly one of Guiliano's supporters and a key conspirator in the Pazzi Conspiracy. He is also a real historical figure.\n\nLorenzo de' Medici: A wealthy Italian statesman. He is a patron of scholars, artists, and poets. Such was his role for Angelo da Canossa's grandfather, a sculptor. Angelo's tuition at the University of Pisa was likewise sponsored by Lorenzo de' Medici. He is also a real historical figure.\n\nGirolamo Savonarola: An Italian Dominican priest who harbors great enmity toward the Medicis and the Borgias. He is also a real historical figure.\n\n"}
{"id": "14087916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14087916", "title": "Concert for the Americas", "text": "Concert for the Americas\n\nThe Concert for the Americas was a music festival held on August 20, 1982 in the Dominican Republic at the Altos de Chavón Amphitheater, a 5,000-seat, open-air Greek-style venue located approximately two hours east of Santo Domingo. It was the amphitheater's inaugural event, with performers including Frank Sinatra with Buddy Rich, Heart, and Santana. Santana's set was cut short due to inclement weather.\n\nCharles Bluhdorn, whose Gulf+Western owned both the Altos de Chavón and Paramount Pictures, had Paramount record the concert so it could be rebroadcast worldwide. The concert was played on Showtime and featured a Grucci Fireworks grand finale. The video recordings of the Frank Sinatra and Buddy Rich set and Heart's performance were later released commercially.\n\n\nPersonnel\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3887226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3887226", "title": "Crayfish party", "text": "Crayfish party\n\nA crayfish party is a traditional summertime eating and drinking celebration in the Nordic countries. The tradition originated in Sweden, where a crayfish party is called a \"\". The tradition has also spread to Finland via its Swedish-speaking population. A similar tradition exists in the Baltic countries in particular in Lithuania and Latvia.\n\nCrayfish parties are generally held during August, a tradition that began because the crayfish harvest in Sweden was, for most of the 20th century, legally limited to the late summer. Nowadays, the ' date in early August has no legal significance. Dining traditionally takes place outdoors, but in practice the party often takes refuge indoors due to the bad weather or aggressive mosquitoes. Customary party accessories are novelty paper hats, paper tablecloths, paper lanterns (often depicting the Man in the Moon), and bibs. A rowdy atmosphere prevails amid noisy eating and traditional drinking songs ('). Alcohol consumption is often high, especially when compared to the amount of food actually consumed. It is considered customary to suck the juice out of the crayfish before shelling it.\n\n' and other kinds of ' are served, as well as beer. The crayfish are boiled in salt water and seasoned with fresh dill – preferably \"crown dill\" harvested after the plant has flowered – then served cold and eaten with the fingers. Bread, mushroom pies, surströmming, strong Västerbotten cheese, salads and other dishes are served buffet-style.\n\nFor more than 40 years, the town of Herrera de Pisuerga (Province of Palencia) has celebrated the ' (Crayfish's National Festival). This is because this crustacean has been always part of the traditional gastronomy of the area. Since 2011, the town includes a \"Swedish dinner\" in its celebrations, during which the residents practice the Swedish tradition of a street dinner with paper lanterns and candles in true '-style. For the inaugural Swedish dinner, the festival was honoured by the presence of a special guest, the First Secretary and Chancellor of Spain, Ms Eva Boix.\n"}
{"id": "44308829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44308829", "title": "Cross border attacks in Sabah", "text": "Cross border attacks in Sabah\n\nThe Cross border attacks in Sabah are a series of cross border terrorism perpetrated by the Moro pirates from Mindanao on Sabah that began even before the British colonial period. Many civilians have died or suffered during these incidents, causing an increase in anti-Filipino sentiment among the native peoples of Sabah, especially after major attacks in 1985, 2000 and 2013. The attacks were more intense during the presidential terms of Diosdado Macapagal and Ferdinand Marcos who supported irredentist claims to include eastern Sabah as part of the Philippines territory. In addition with the recent infiltration and attacks by militants as well the uncontrolled human migration from Mindanao to Sabah that has led to more unease sentiments among the local residents of Sabah, with around 78% prison inmates that were caught in the state due to involvement in criminal activities and lawlessness issues are mainly originated from the southern Philippines.\n\nPrior to the large scale military operation initiated by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to combat the rampant lawlessness in the southern Philippines since the mid-2016, the Malaysian security forces have been told to tighten its security and to ensure that terrorists do not attempt to flee prosecution by escaping to uninhabited areas. Sabahan leaders are also ordering Malaysian security forces to \"shoot-on-sight\" any trespassers who continue to ignore laws despite repeated warnings, and those escaping militants should be deal with the country laws more effectively. Following the declaration of martial law in neighbouring Philippines since 23 May 2017, Malaysian authorities had increase their border security.\n\nVarious countries such as Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, United Kingdom, United States and Vietnam have raised a travel alert for its citizens to avoid the area in eastern Sabah.\n\nPiracy has been a part of the Sultanate of Sulu's culture. During the expedition by the British ship HMS Dido in 1846, Captain Henry Keppel mentioned:\n\nThe Sulu islands were known for their \"great slave market\" with their islanders frequently attacking Borneo Island in search of slaves. In 1910, the neighbouring Celebes Islands was attacked by seven Moro pirates whom had crossed from Mindanao, and two Dutch traders were killed in the incident. Subsequent reports from the British government in North Borneo reported that \"Joloano Moros\" terrorised the inhabitants of North Borneo, looting small towns and killing many people. Although the British did a lot to combat piracy, an office of a British company was later raided by twelve Moro pirates in Kalabakan in July 1958. Another raid was done on the nearby township of Semporna on 29 March 1954. During the last years of British rule in North Borneo, both seafarers and coastal settlements suffered a high numbers of attacks from pirates who were believed to be mainly based on Tawi-Tawi. Between 1959 and 1962, 232 pirates attack were recorded by the British authorities in North Borneo, but these were thought to be underestimated as many attacks went unreported. The British North Borneo governor at the time, Roland Turnbull had requested the British to provide him with security forces from the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force but no aid was sent until a British newspaper, the \"Daily Telegraph\" embellished the report with an anti-Indonesian bias because of the Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation.\n\nRegional migration flows within Southeast Asia are not a phenomenon restricted to current times. Social and cultural connections between Sabah, Mindanao and the Indonesian province of North Kalimantan have existed for centuries. The tradition of border crossing from the Philippine Sulu Archipelago to Sabah originated in the late 16th century. The first wave of this migration was linked to the Spanish colonialists who began pushing southwards toward the island provinces of Sulu and Tawi-Tawi from Manila, which was the administration centre of the Spanish during that time. The struggle for dominance between different ethnic groups and the Spanish in Mindanao led to increased immigration of Philippine Moro ethnic groups, mostly the Suluks and Bajaus to Sabah.\nThe first arrival of the illegal immigrants in Sabah in the 1960s was said to be associated with the then Philippine president Ferdinand Marcos and his country's claim to the northern Borneo region. It is claimed by media in the Philippines that during the first stage of his plan, Marcos sent around 17 men who mostly recruited from Sulu and Tawi-Tawi had entered Sabah as forest rangers, postmen and police. These agents have blended into the Sabah local communities with a plan to possessing the minds of the larger Filipino communities in eastern Sabah to secede from Malaysia and become part of the Philippines as well to destabilising Sabah. At the same time, a Suluk native, Mustapha Harun became the third Chief Minister of Sabah, he then made a contact with one of the Filipino agent who became his driver. However, most of them did not intend to attack their fellow Muslim brothers in Sabah when they realise their true mission in which they were later execute by Marcos commando soldiers in an event known as Jabidah massacre. During Mustapha's term from 1967 to 1975, he was believed to have encouraged many newly Filipino Tausūgs to migrate to northern Borneo to establish a strong Muslim community which was represented by the United Sabah National Organisation (USNO). Since the massacre especially with the starting of Moro insurgency in the Philippines, Mustapha is believed to have supplied the Moro rebels with financial and weapon supports to fight for their freedom and to take a revenge for their fallen comrades.\n\nSince then, it has caused major economic problems for Sabah as Marcos soldiers launched an operation to eliminate any anti-Marcos factions in the Sulu and Mindanao islands which left much infrastructure there destroyed, forcing an estimated of another 100,000 Moros in Mindanao to flee to Sabah. Most of those who left the Philippines were already involved in criminal activities, mainly smuggling and armed robbery. Today, a huge numbers of Moros still live in many places in Sabah such as Kota Kinabalu, Kinarut, Lahad Datu, Sandakan, Semporna, Tawau, Telipok as well on Labuan. Most of the Filipino refugees are issued with IMM13 documents by the Malaysian government during Mahathir Mohamad administration, with many of them have been controversially naturalised as citizen.\n\nBesides that, the present economic disparity between Mindanao and Sabah became the main reason many of these illegal Moros snuck into Sabah with some of those \"extremist\" Moros with their own ideology still perceive the eastern part of Sabah as part of the Philippines, and these groups feel entitled to enter Sabah as it is their historical right although the Sultanate of Sulu have defunct since the last recognised Sultan, Jamalul Kiram II whose have no son to inherit his powers.\n\nIn 2014, the Eastern Sabah Security Command (Esscom) Security Coordinating Intelligence Officer Hassim Justin blamed corruption, illegal issuance of identity cards and local authorities who did not taking any action to combat the squatter colonies for contributing to the significant increase of illegal immigrants in Sabah. It was also reported that community leaders in the east coast such as village chief were involved in the granting of identity cards to new Filipino Moro immigrants as they have a connection with them through similar ethnic roots. According to a research by two Filipino researchers, Myfel Joseph Paluga and Andrea Malaya Ragragio of the Department of Social Science University of the Philippines Mindanao, the flood of migrants from Mindanao to Sabah was partly encouraged by certain Sabah politicians who wanted to be the Sultan of Sulu especially after the fall of Sabah Muslim-led parties of USNO and Sabah People's United Front (BERJAYA) administrations. Beside that, as been claimed by Indonesian workers who had become a victim of irresponsible employers, the arrival of illegal immigrants from the Philippines are also caused by employers who abuse their powers especially in the agricultural sectors of palm oil plantation.\n\nThe tactics are different, and are based on the motives of individual groups. Generally, the Moro pirate and militants will attack and escape to the Malaysia–Philippines border or any nearby islands when their activities are spotted by the security forces. Both the pirates and militants will usually steal boat engines, food and other useful things that can be sold. In certain cases, they also attack towns, killing innocent civilians and kidnapping them as shown in the Lahad Datu and Semporna attacks. The Filipino illegal immigrants play an important role in helping them by providing information on their next target. Due to the increase security patrol by the Malaysian Armed Forces, the militants group such as the Abu Sayyaf has change their tactics by attacking and abducting foreign vessel crews. Many of those who fleeing from the Philippine military operation in the southern Philippines also sneaking into Sabah with new tactics by entering the state in a small group to avoid from being detected as suspicious by the Malaysian security forces, this was discovered following the tip-off from local villagers who saw many new suspicious people coming into their village from the sea shortly after the continuous military operation. Many of them are believed to be member of militants and kidnapping groups.\n\nIn 1962, seven Filipino Moros armed with machetes attacked the town of Kunak and robbed the businessmen there. The seven Filipino Moros attacked again in 1963, this time attacking the town of Semporna and killing a number of residents. In October 1979, a passenger boat on the way to Semporna from Lahad Datu with 48 passengers was attacked and forced to dock at Adal Island. Three passengers were shot dead, one woman was raped and the others was taken to the Philippines but were quickly rescued by the Philippine security forces. In 1980, a group of 6–8 Moros attacked an island near Semporna with M16 rifles, killing villagers while they were asleep. At the end, seven villagers were killed while 11 others were injured. In 1982, a groups of Moros ambushed a village in Timba-Timba Island, and started to shoot, rob and kill villagers. The incident in 1985, which is considered to be the most terrifying attack out of all of them, was where 21 people were killed and another 11 wounded. Five of the intruders were killed by the Malaysian maritime police while the others managed to escaped. At the end of the tragedy, one of the victim said;\n\nI cannot help wondering about our government, which can’t seem to defend us against these marauders.\n\nIn 1987, two Japanese managers was killed while others were wounded after twelve gunmen attack a factory in the Boheydulang Island, forcing the company to close and move their factory to Indonesia. In 1996, two separate armed groups from Mindanao attack the town of Semporna, the first group attack a police station by throwing a fish bomb while the second group managed to steal jewellery worth around MYR100,000 at a gold shop. During the shoot-out, two of the group members were captured by the police with 200 bullets recovered from them. However, the rest managed to escape. In March 1996, another attacks by 10–20 Moros happens in the town of Semporna when three separate armed groups attacked different places at the same time. The first group attacked a police headquarters while the second group attacked a police station. It is acknowledged the motive of the first and second group was to delay time and let the third group succeed in robbing a gold shop. No arrest was made and all the intruders managed to escaped with MYR 200,000. Again in July 1996, four armed men attack a gold shop in Tawau and managed to steal jewellery worth around MYR 150,000. However, one of the gunmen later made a mistake when he retreated to a refugee village in Tawau where he was shot dead by the police. After an hour of investigation, another 5 gunmen from other groups were killed by the police.\n\nIn 2000, the Abu Sayyaf group kidnapped a large number of hostages. 10 of the hostages were from Europe and the Middle East while 11 were Malaysian resort workers. All hostages were later rescued by the Philippine security forces in Jolo, Sulu. In 2003, six foreigners were kidnapped by 10 Moro pirates. In 2004, two Sarawakians and an Indonesian were kidnapped by the Abu Sayyaf group. In 2005, five Filipinos abducted three Indonesian crew from a Sandakan-based trading company near Mataking Island off Semporna. In 2010, a crew of fishermen were captured by Filipino gunmen when their boat strayed into Philippine waters near Boan Island. All crews was later released without any ransom being paid. Also in the same year, a seaweed manager and supervisor were kidnapped by four armed Filipinos on Sebangkat Island. Both victims was freed 11 months later. In 2011, ten armed Filipinos kidnapped a Malaysian businessmen. On 11 February 2013, a group of approximately 100–200 individuals, some of them armed, arrived by boat in Lahad Datu, Sabah from Simunul, Tawi-Tawi, in Mindanao. They were sent by Jamalul Kiram III, one of the claimants to the throne of the Sultanate of Sulu. Their objective was to assert their unresolved territorial claim to North Borneo. During the standoff, 56 militants were killed including 6 civilians and 10 Malaysian forces. In November 2013, suspected Abu Sayyaf militants killed a Taiwanese national at Pom Pom Island and released his wife a month later in southern Philippines.\n\nIn January 2014, an attempted intrusion by foreign elements on Sabah was blocked by the Malaysian security forces. On 2 April 2014, a Chinese tourist and a Filipino national were abducted off Singamata Adventures Reef and Resort, Semporna. Two months later, they were rescued by Malaysian and Philippine security forces. On 6 May 2014, another abduction involving a Chinese national occurred in Silam, near the Lahad Datu area in Sabah. He was later freed on 10 July. On 16 June, a fish breeder and a Filipino worker were kidnapped off Kunak. The fish farm manager was freed on 10 December with the help of two Filipino negotiators, one of them being the leader of the Moro National Liberation Front. On 12 July, a policeman was shot dead and another marine policeman was abducted at Mabul Water Bungalows Resort, Mabul island. The policeman was later freed on 7 March 2015, after 9 months in captivity. On 9 October, two Filipino illegal immigrants who were identified as Sulu militants were killed by police in Penampang, both suspects has a record of criminal activities and were responsible for at least three robberies in the area. On 17 October, two Vietnamese fishermen who were working for a Malaysian employer, were shot by Filipino pirates. All of them were later rescued by the Malaysian security forces and sent to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Kota Kinabalu.\n\nOn 15 May 2015, four armed men from the Abu Sayyaf-based group in Mindanao abducted two people in a resort in Sandakan and brought them to Parang, Sulu. One of them been released on 9 November, after six months in captivity, while another one was beheaded due to ransom demands was not met. The Malaysian authorities identified that a number of kidnappings in Sabah was perpetrated by a group of Filipino brothers known as \"Muktadil brothers\" who sell their hostages to Abu Sayyaf group. Of all the five Muktadil brothers: Mindas Muktadil was killed by Philippine police in Jolo in May 2015, Kadafi Muktadil was arrested in late 2015, Nixon Muktadil and Brown Muktadil was killed during an operation by the Philippine military on 27 September 2016 after they resist for arrest, while Badong Muktadil succumbed to his injuries during his run after being shot at the time his brothers was killed. His body was discovered in a pump boat in Mususiasi area in Siasi Island, close to Jolo.\n\nOn 1 April 2016, four Malaysians aboard a tugboat from Manila was kidnapped when they arrived near the shore of Ligitan Island, while leaving other crews unharmed comprising three Myanmar nationals and two Indonesians. The four Malaysian hostages was later released after nearly two months in captivity. On 15 April, two Indonesian tugboats from Cebu, namely \"Henry\" and \"Cristi\" with 10 passengers were attacked by Abu Sayyaf militants. Four passengers were kidnapped, while another five were safe. One of the passenger was injured after being shot but were later rescued by Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency when they arrived into the waters of Malaysia. The four were released on 11 May with the help of the Philippine government. On 9 July, three Indonesians fishermen was kidnapped near the coast of Lahad Datu. On 18 July, five Malaysian sailors were also abducted near the coast of Lahad Datu. Another one Indonesian sailor was kidnapped in the waters of Malaysia on 3 August while leaving other two crews unharmed, the incident was only reported by victims on 5 August. Two of the Indonesian sailor hostages have managed to escape from the Abu Sayyaf after persistent threats of beheading.\n\nOn 10 September, three Filipino fishermen was kidnapped in the shores of Pom Pom Island in Sabah, Malaysia. The three Indonesians fishermen that was kidnapped on 9 July from Sabah were released on 17 September. On 27 September, one local boat-skipper was kidnapped from his trawler by seven armed Filipino militant before attacking another Indonesian trawler but no kidnapping were committed in the second incident. The boat-skipper was released on 1 October with no ransom been asked, along with three Indonesians hostages that was released in the same day. On 12 October, four armed men in a pump boat attacking two fishermen on a boat off Tigabu Island near Kudat. One of the fisherman who is an Indonesian sustained gunshot wounds and has been treated in the Duchess of Kent Hospital in Sandakan. On 24 October, six unidentified gunmen who spoke Tagalog rob a Malaysian trawler in international waters near Jambongan Island off Kudat, the incident was only reported to local authorities on 27 October due to long distance with any army post. Another attempt for kidnapping was thwarted by the Malaysian security forces on 31 October near Berhala Island, thought the perpetrators managed to escape. Two Indonesians were abducted near the shore of Kuala Kinabatangan on 5 November by unidentified gunmen based in Tawi-Tawi island of the Philippines. On 6 November, a German woman tourist was shot to dead while her boyfriend been abducted by Abu Sayyaf militants from their yacht off Tanjong Luuk Pisuk in Sabah. The German man was later beheaded after failed to pay ransom for his release. On 20 November, two Indonesian fishermen was kidnapped by five Abu Sayyaf gunmen off Lahad Datu, Sabah, while Philippine military been informed to intercept the bandit. Responding for the co-operation with neighbouring countries, since late 2016 more than 100 Abu Sayyaf militants have been killed by Philippine authorities, with another 30 killed in early 2017.\n\nOn 8 March 2017, a Vietnamese merchant ship was escorted safely to Malaysian waters by the local authorities after the ship's captain reported that he spotted a strange boat with six people on board from the Philippine waters following their vessel. On 23 March, Philippine authorities rescued two Malaysian hostages during its continuous major pursuit to destroy the group. Another three more Malaysian hostages rescued on 26 March. Following the continuous security operation collaboration between the Philippine and Malaysian authorities, the attacks by Abu Sayyaf have seen a beginning of decrease since the month of April. The Malaysian side announced that they would begin to led the major active joint sea patrols in the Sulu and Celebes Sea with the authorities in Philippines and Indonesia to eliminate all forms of piracy and to clear the sea areas from criminal and terrorist activities that have been ongoing for decades.\n\nFrom 2000–2016, there has been records of 20 kidnappings cases perpetrated by the Abu Sayyaf, with a total of 33 Malaysians and 31 foreigners have been kidnapped for ransom during the six years. Following the Philippine military major operations in the southern Philippines especially with the recent killings of many notable Abu Sayyaf leaders, the authorities there have foiled a big plan of the Abu Sayyaf to carry out large-scale kidnappings of foreigners from tourist island resorts in East Malaysia and the central Philippines. On 11 September 2018, two Indonesian fishermen working off eastern Sabah shores are kidnapped by Filipino bandits, making it as another first kidnapping incident in almost two years.\n\nDuring the British colonial era, the British suffered a high number of attacks, leading to the deployment of Henry Keppel and James Brooke in 1846 to search for pirate nests in North Borneo. After a long journey of battling with the pirates, the last pirate's nest in Tunku, Lahad Datu was destroyed by the British.\n\nThe latest intrusion in 2013 caused the Malaysian government to establish the Eastern Sabah Security Command (ESSCOM), Eastern Sabah Security Zone (ESSZONE) and deploy more assets to Sabah. To combat Moro pirates and Abu Sayyaf attacks, the Malaysian government has also decided to impose a curfew on eastern Sabah waters and has started to use radar to detect any suspicious activities on every tiny settlement along the east coast. There is a call from a former Chief Minister of Sabah, Harris Salleh to the federal government to reconsider the proposal to move the Royal Malaysian Air Force (RMAF) base from Butterworth, Penang to Labuan. He suggested that the air force base should be relocated to Tawau in the interest of security in the eastern Sabah. The Minister of Transport, Liow Tiong Lai has also proposed to extend the area of ESSCOM and ESSZONE to cover the whole Sabah as also been proposed by Yong Teck Lee. On 23 January 2015, the Royal Brunei Air Force gives neighbouring Malaysia four S-70A Black Hawks as a gift. The Malaysian said that it will use it in addition to available assets to defend Sabah from a further possible attacks by the Moros. On 28 February, the United States supplied the Eastern Sabah Security Command (ESSCOM) with 12 boats following a number of agreements signed between the two countries in 2014 during the Barack Obama visit.\nDespite various initiatives and assets been provided by government, the cross border crimes in eastern Sabah are keep increasing as the kidnap-for-ransom groups had strong intelligence as they had a relatives and family living in Sabah. An investigation report in 2017 revealed that some of the militants members caught in Malaysia were even working as security guards or members of the People's Volunteer Corps in the Malaysia's capital city of Kuala Lumpur. The Eastern Sabah Security Command (Esscom) Security Coordinating Intelligence Officer Hassim Justin have previously warned Malaysian employers to be cautious on hiring Filipinos (mainly those who come from the Sulu Archipelago and Mindanao) as they could not be trusted as many of them are believed to be spies of kidnapping groups as been proved by police investigation and international media reports. Beside that, he have suggested that if any Filipino races (who have been naturalised as Malaysian citizens through the illegal Project IC) caught for continuously committing crimes in the states should be revoked for their citizenship with their whole family been deported back to the Philippines. Hashim also suggested that any Filipino names in troubled villages with high crime rates in eastern Sabah should be removed and replaced with Sabahan names. The Royal Malaysia Police and Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister has made a proposal to ban barter trade in the east coast as it was seen only benefited to one side and threatening the security of the state. This was enforced then although facing numerous opposition from the Malaysian opposition parties and Filipino resident on the nearest Philippine islands due to the raise of the cost in their region after the ban, while receiving positive welcomes by Sabahans residents and politicians. The barter trade activity was resumed in 1 February 2017 with the increase of security surveillance and enforcement from both Malaysia and the Philippines authorities to jointly secure their borders.\n\nMalaysia, Philippines and Indonesia has agreed to jointly patrol their sea to thwart any threats from the Filipino militants. The three countries also have signed another agreement on joint air patrols. On 2 March 2015, a Filipino worker was arrested following the murder of the former Sabah Chief Minister nephew over salary dispute. On 22 February 2016, four Filipino refugee were arrested following the discovery of a Colt. 45 and 39 bullets in their Isuzu D-Max vehicle at a refugee settlement scheme in Telipok. On 23 September, an undocumented Filipino migrant was arrested together with his daughter after they were found with M16 bullets and magazines at a premises in Sandakan. On 7 October, Malaysian authorities arrest 10 suspects comprising residents of Sabah and individuals from the southern Philippines on suspicion of collaborating with militant groups. On 8 December, three armed Filipino kidnappers who are believed to be members of Abu Sayyaf was shot dead by Malaysian security forces while another two arrested while the gunmen trying to kidnap a fisherman off Lahad Datu. Two other gunmen however managed to escape with one hostage but goes missing after the shootout. Philippine authorities have confirmed all of the gunmen are Abu Sayyaf members and one of the gunmen killed is one of Abu Sayyaf notorious leader that were previously involved in several other kidnappings involving foreign nationals. On 12 December, two armed gunmen was killed during a shootout with police in Kunak. Both suspects are armed with homemade shotguns, an airgun, a Colt .45 pistol, a .38 revolver, a knife and parang, several M16 bullets (a version which different from that being used by the Malaysian security forces), other bullets and cartridges as well drug packets but no documentation found in their bodies. Both suspects are believed to be drug dealers and involved in several robbery around the east coast area. On 29 December, a 42-year-old local man was slashed to death while his wife and their three children were seriously hurt after been attacked by a Filipino man in Kudat.\n\nOn 7 January 2017, a paperless Filipino who just served his sentence for 13 criminal offences in Sabah prison on October 2016 was shot and re-arrested by local police after he resisting from arrest and tried to injuring one of the policemen when he was caught return to his criminal activities. On 3 April, a Filipino man was shot to dead by police after running amok by stabbing his wife and tried to injuring policemen who tried to stop him after repeated warnings. Another Filipino man was charged in court for supporting the ideology of Abu Sayyaf terrorist group on 6 April. On 15 April, a local teenager was attacked and stabbed by a group of Filipino migrants in Penampang. On 30 April, a Filipino foreign worker who works for the Malaysian plantation related an incident to a friend which later was reported to police following the sightings of armed men in Lahad Datu who suddenly apprehended him and telling that they want to protect the peoples in Sabah. Following a wide-scale surveillance launched by the security forces, there is however no presence of armed men founded in the related areas with the Filipino man also giving a lot of excuses when asked why it was only reported after two weeks with authorities have warned that severe punishment will be imposed for those who found to be made a false report. The worker explained he was afraid of being arrested if he report the sighting to local authorities as he working illegally in the state, which later resulting to his arrestment with the authorities assured the public that police will not closing the case despite not finding any proof of the man's claim and explained his arrestment are not caused by making false report but rather due to immigration offences.\n\nOn 2 May, an unemployed Filipino man was arrested after trying to assault a security guard after been warned not to trespass a construction site. The suspect was managed to be put down by the guard during the ensuing scuffle when he began to brandishing a knife; and giving a threat to find the guard soon after his sentence is ended. The suspect also remanded for coming to the state without any valid travel documents. On 10 May, a woman was held hostage by a Filipino man high on drugs after the suspect failed to robbed a house which he was then picking a local bystander and pointing his knife towards the woman by threatening to slit her throat. Following the implementation of strict requirements by Philippine authorities in the southern Philippines for Filipinos who tried to leaving their country to come to Sabah, there is a positive beginning drop on the numbers of Filipinos who plan to heading to the state without complete travel documents. This was enforced following the revelation from the previously arrested Filipino man who tried to robbed a house and taking a local bystander as a hostage in the state capital as he had no money to be used to return to his country. On 29 September, a Filipino man who are previously involved in several robberies and kidnapping plot was shot dead after resisting arrest by opening fire towards police. On 13 November, a previously deported Filipino illegal immigrant who had return to Sabah to commit armed robbery was arrested after robbing a convenience store in Tawau. On 4 December, another Filipino man linked to the Abu Sayyaf was shot dead in the waters near Silam in Lahad Datu after resisting arrest by firing security forces.\n\nOn 22 February 2018, Sabah fishermen who was fishing in the waters off Kinabatangan was shot by gunmen who are believed to be originated from the neighbouring islands of the Philippines. On 27 February, three heavily armed men was shot dead by police in Tawau after opening fire when the suspects realised they were being tailed. On 8 May, four gunmen were shot dead by Sabah authorities off the coast of Lahad Datu after attacking patrolling authorities. Another two gunmen were shot dead on 20 September.\n\nA Malaysian lecturer, B. A. Hamzah of the Department of Strategic Studies, National Defence University, Kuala Lumpur said \"the root causes for maritime violence must be understood and addressed\" with the people in the Sulu Archipelago should be granted for a self-rule by the Philippine government. Adding that the kidnappings was happened as a result of spillover of armed conflicts in the southern Philippines. He said there must be co-operation between the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia to enforce law and order at the Sulu Sea as the area are historically known for their lawlessness, where the Muslim islanders living in the archipelago becoming bandits, kidnappers, extortionists, and gun runners as their main primary businesses as the areas are very impoverished.\n\nNeighbouring Vietnam have began to install radar in their ships for piracy warning and launched maritime exercise. Both Singapore and Thailand have also been invited to assist in the Sulu Sea patrols together with Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines.\n\nThe former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad, has suggested the government of Sabah to demolish all the water villages in eastern Sabah and resettle only the local people there as the era of the water villages has passed and the lifestyle of the villagers there who live in the sea is not appropriate for the modern way of life in Malaysia as the nation aims for Vision 2020. A Sabah MP, Rosnah Shirlin has called for the closure of the Filipino refugee camp in Kinarut, saying it is a threat to security in Papar. She says:\nUnited Sabah People's Party (PBRS) leader, Joseph Kurup shares a similar view on this, adding that the Moro refugees and immigrants should take the opportunity to return and develop their homeland in Mindanao, Philippines as the peace had been restored there. Kurup also reminded that Sabahan people are not against to any migration, but stressing that any migration should be accordance to law by not entering illegally;\nAnother Sabah former Chief Minister, Yong Teck Lee has suggested to suspend the ferry service in Sandakan to counter the high level of Moro people migration from the Mindanao which now has become a major issue for Sabah when they overstay in the state and becoming an illegal immigrant. In October 2014, the Minister of Home Affairs, Ahmad Zahid Hamidi announced that all stateless children in Sabah will be given a birth certificates for schooling purposes. The proposal was soon opposed by a number of Sabahan politicians both from the opposition and government allied parties such as Joseph Pairin Kitingan, Darell Leiking and Yong Teck Lee, citing the act would bring a big problem to Sabah in the future, while another Sabah-based opposition party leader, Jeffrey Kitingan, has called for a different birth certificate to be issued to the foreigners. Sabah State Legislative Assembly member for Kamunting in Sandakan, Charles O Pang, believes the education system will be burdened if stateless children are given birth certificates. He quote;\nAlso it was known the UNHCR has ever trying before to integrate the Filipino refugees with local communities in 1986 if they can't repatriate them back to the Philippines but this was opposed heavily by the locals and Sabah state government as it could bring a big social problem to the state. Large amounts of money have been spent to maintain the lives of the Filipino illegal immigrants and the amount remains unpaid until today despite attempts to recover the monies. Sabah Health Department said infectious diseases among the illegal immigrants was on the rise resulting in more expenditures, as well as provisions for more funds to accommodate the logistics such as medical officers and others. Illegal electricity connection and theft in the state are mainly been attributed to illegal squatters settlement that inhabited by Filipino refugees and illegal immigrants. The seaweed industry operated by indigenous Suluk community in eastern Sabah are also heavily affected because of the persistent kidnappings perpetrated by their Filipino-Tausūg relatives southern-Philippine-based terrorist group, the Abu Sayyaf. Sabah Kiulu Assemblyman, Joniston Bangkuai point out a similar view on the stateless issue. He said:\nThe Sabah National Registration Department (NRD) director, Ismail Ahmad has clarified that the issuing of the birth certificates does not make the stateless children Malaysians or Sabahan citizens as the certificates will be only used for record and monitoring purpose to show that the children are born in Sabah. Beside that, a DNA test is now among the methods being used to ensure only genuine citizens are issued the Malaysian birth certificate when they apply for late birth registrations. After several discussions, the Cabinet of Malaysia later decided to give only special birth documents instead of birth certificates as been announced by the Malaysian Prime Minister, Najib Razak.\nThe United Pasokmomogun Kadazandusun Murut Organisation (UPKO) will present their proposed solutions on the problems after they have obtained the full Royal Commission Inquiry report, one of them being the re-calling and re-issuing of all the identification cards of the people of Sabah. Other former politicians have asked the federal government to investigate the action of some individuals who claim to be of royal blood of the Sulu Sultanate and have been conferring many \"Datukship\" title to local Sabahans and to those from Peninsular Malaysia until today.\n\nMost Sabah United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) leaders have lauded the drastic measures announced by the Sabah current Chief Minister Musa Aman to address the problem posed by illegal immigrants. However, the former UPKO federal parliamentarian, Wilfred Bumburing reminded that the members of Barisan Nasional (BN) should not take credit for the setting up of the Royal Commission of Inquiry (RCI) as it was only established after a much pressure from the Sabahan peoples. The United Sabah Party (PBS) has said the Philippine government is to be blamed for the misery of its nationals in Sabah as a response to remarks made by Philippines Ambassador to Malaysia, J. Eduardo Malaya who stressed that Filipino migrants children in Malaysia deserved formal education. While he support the suggestion, the party Secretary-General Johnny Mositun reminded:\nOther Sabahan leaders such as Darell Leiking agreed and reminded the Philippine government to emulate the Indonesian government's plan by setting up a consulate in Sabah to care for their nationals and set up schools for their children. On a statement, he said:\nThe Sabah state government has since working to end the Filipino squatter problems that have become the main cause for rampant crimes, terrorism and drug trafficking in the state by relocating them to a proper place to ease proper management. Prior to the meeting between Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte and Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak in Putrajaya in late 2016, both leaders agree to deport illegal Filipino migrants and refugees in Sabah while set aside Philippines claim into the state with the signing of various agreements to improve the social conditions of legal Filipino migrants and expatriates in the state with the establishment of a school, hospital and a consulate. However, the matter will still need to be discussed within the Sabah state cabinet for a final outcome to allow Philippine government setting up their school, hospital and a consulate in the state, with the Sabah state government appreciating Philippine government recent move to accept its citizens that currently being detained in various temporary detention in the state mainly for illegal migration, overstaying and committing crimes. According to a statistics from Sabah National Security Council, around 550,000 undocumented immigrants have been deported from the state or left voluntarily since 1990, with most of them are Filipinos. The Sabah state government also submit recommendations to the Malaysian federal government through the Main Committee on Management of Foreigners to move the refugee placement schemes in the state to other more suitable locations far from the towns and industrial development areas. More strong enforcements against illegal immigrants in Sabah also being taken following the discovery of immigrants syndicates giving illegal citizenship to their fellow relatives from the Philippines and Indonesia, as in early 2017, a former employee in the Malaysian Registration Department (JPN) was sentenced to 156 years in prison for giving illegal citizenship to Filipino illegal immigrants from Sulu to stay in Sabah. The recent Sabah state government decision to re-open border trade in its eastern coast has been applauded by Mindanao Development Authority (MinDA) secretary Abdul Khayr Alonto. In his statement:\nThe secretary added that he vowed to work harder to make Mindanao as the gateway of the Philippines as part of the BIMP-EAGA and asked the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) to strengthened security in the Sulu Sea and Mindanao and eliminating terrorists to encourage more investors to develop the areas. However, according to Philippine Representative from Palawan Jose C. Alvarez, they are more interest to establish a Palawan Business Office in the state than Philippine Office that will also giving the similar services like passport granting, renewal of travel documents and other requirements as well extending business assistance to the Filipino people when the need arises, giving excuses that it is only proper and logical to set up the main office if there are increasing number of Filipino traders especially from Palawan.\n\nThe Filipinos in the state expressed their hopes that more attention will be given from the Filipino consular services especially on easy and better access in communication facilities, more friendly attitude from embassy officials and staff and transparency in all official transactions as they had repeatedly expressed their dissatisfactions over how the manner of consular missions were conducted with the presence of \"middlemen\", delays in deliveries of travel documents, difficulties to telephone the main Philippine embassy in Kuala Lumpur and rudeness of some of the embassy officials and staff. Despite the return of barter trade activity, the state of Sabah has maintained they will always be cautious on their trade with the Philippines.\n"}
{"id": "175313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175313", "title": "David Hampton", "text": "David Hampton\n\nDavid Hampton (April 28, 1964 – July 18, 2003) was an American con artist and robber who became infamous in the 1980s after he managed to convince a group of wealthy Manhattanites to give him money, food, and shelter, convincing them he was the son of Sidney Poitier. His story became the inspiration for a play and a film. He died of AIDS-related complications in 2003.\n\nHampton was born in Buffalo, New York and was the eldest son of an attorney. He moved to New York City in 1981 and stumbled upon his now-famous ruse in 1983 when he and another man were attempting to gain entry into Studio 54. Unable to obtain entry, Hampton's partner decided to pose as Gregory Peck's son while Hampton assumed the identity of Sidney Poitier's son. They were ushered in as celebrities. Hampton began employing the persona of \"David Poitier\" to cadge free meals in restaurants. He also persuaded at least a dozen people into letting him stay with them and give him money, including Melanie Griffith, Gary Sinise, Calvin Klein, John Jay Iselin, the president of WNET; Osborn Elliott, the dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism; Leonard Bernstein, and a Manhattan urologist. He convinced some that he was an acquaintance of their children, some that he had just missed a plane to Los Angeles with his luggage still on it, and some that his belongings had been stolen.\n\nIn October 1983, Hampton was arrested and convicted for his frauds and was ordered to pay restitution of $4,490 to his various victims. After refusing to comply with these terms, he was sentenced to a term of 18 months to 4 years in prison.\n\nPlaywright John Guare became interested in Hampton's story through his friendship with Inger McCabe Elliott and Osborn Elliott, who had been outraged to find \"David Poitier\" in bed with another man the morning after they let him into their home. \"Six Degrees of Separation\" opened at the Lincoln Center in May 1990 and became a long-running success.\n\nHampton attempted to parlay the play's success to his benefit, giving interviews to the press, gate-crashing a producer's party, and beginning a campaign of harassment against Guare that included phone calls and death threats, prompting Guare to apply for a restraining order in April 1991, which was unsuccessful. In the fall of 1991, Hampton filed a $100 million lawsuit, claiming that the play had infringed on the copyright on his persona and his story. The lawsuit was eventually dismissed.\n\nAfter his release, Hampton continued to adopt false identities. After the play and film made his original con well-known, Hampton evolved other false identities and traveled extensively to find new victims. Hampton was in and out of prison in numerous states. He was interviewed during each break from incarceration by a journalist with the TV show \"The Justice Files\", seen in the USA on Discovery Channel.\n\nAfter declaring his rehabilitation, Hampton continued traveling at least as late as 1996, where he found a large number of men who, even if they'd heard of his notoriety from the East Coast, had never seen his picture or the press, allowing him to move about unnoticed and simultaneously con multiple victims. In Spring 1996, Hampton arrived in Seattle, Washington, USA, posing as Antonio de Montilio, the son of a wealthy District of Columbia physician. Due to his light skin color, victims claimed he could easily be believed as the Puerto Rican he claimed to be. Typically, his story was colorful. Hampton claimed to have been mugged upon arriving in Seattle early for a work assignment for \"Vogue\" magazine. He was to interview Bill Gates but was suddenly in peril as his wallet was stolen and nothing could be replaced until that weekend was over. Hampton managed to woo two people within blocks of each other without their being aware that he was working them both. It is believed that he was first drawn to one victim, Justin Baird, because Baird had been identified at RPlace as the official taking in fundraising dollars from Bunny Brigade volunteers as they returned from their collection rounds.\n\nDavid Hampton died of AIDS-related complications while being treated for his illness at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1681293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681293", "title": "De mortuis nil nisi bonum", "text": "De mortuis nil nisi bonum\n\nThe Latin phrases De mortuis nihil nisi bonum and De mortuis nil nisi bene [dicendum] (\"Of the dead, [say] nothing but good\") indicate that it is socially inappropriate to speak ill of the dead. As a mortuary aphorism, \"De mortuis. . . .\" derives from the Latin sentence \"De mortuis nil nisi bonum dicendum est\" (\"Of the dead nothing but good is to be said\"), which also is abbreviated as Nil nisi bonum. Freer translations into English are often used as aphorisms, these include: \"Speak no ill of the dead\", \"Of the dead, speak no evil\", and \"Do not speak ill of the dead\". \n\nThe first recorded use of the phrase of mortuary respect dates from the 4th century, published in the \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\" (ca. AD 300), Book 1, Chapter 70, by Diogenes Laërtius, wherein the Greek aphorism \"τὸν τεθνηκóτα μὴ κακολογεῖν\" (\"tòn tethnekóta mè kakologeîn\", \"Do not speak ill of the dead\") is attributed to Chilon of Sparta (ca. 600 BC), one of the Seven Sages of Greece. In the 15th century, during the Italian Renaissance, the humanist monk Ambrogio Traversari translated Diogenes’s Greek book into Latin, as \"Laertii Diogenis vitae et sententiae eorum qui in philosophia probati fuerunt\" (1433), and so popularized \"De mortuis nihil nisi bonum\", the Latin aphorism advising respect for the dead.\n\n\n After the thwarting of his gun-running operation, meant to alter the course of British politics, the villain, Professor Ormsby, challenges the hero, Commander Stevenson, with the phrase \"De mortuis nil nisi bonum\", to imply that he, Prof. Ormsby, would kill himself, for which reason Commander Stevenson would cancel the news-media campaign with which he had planned to publicly discredit Ormsby as a traitor.\n\nTo the implicit, honour-saving offer, Stevenson replies, “Certainly, I am concerned with justice in this matter, not with politics.”\n\nThe next day, Professor Ormsby defenestrates himself from his rooms at Cambridge University, and Commander Stevenson returns to his life on the River Dart.\n\nThe second replies: “Well. \"De mortuis\", and all that, but I wasn’t exactly keen on him. I thought him rather an unwholesome little beast.”\n\nHearing steps on the path, and seeing a dismal little procession passing the window: a sergeant of police and another uniformed man, carrying a stretcher between them . . . Mr. Puffett glanced from the window and removed his bowler hat: “And where’s all ’is cheeseparin’ brought ’im now?” he demanded.\n\nThe second man, Lord Peter Wimsey, says: “Nowhere . . . \"De mortuis\"” and then some . . . Yes, he seems to be getting a nice derangement of epitaphs, poor old creature.”\n\n\n\n<poem>\nWe eat and drink, we come and go,\nI speak in riddles. Is it so?\nMy riddles need not mar your glee;\nFor I will neither bid you share\nMy thoughts, nor will I bid you shun,\nThough I should see in yonder chair\nTh’ Egyptian’s muffled skeleton.\nOne toast with me, your glasses fill,\nAye, fill them level with the brim,\n\"De mortuis, nisi bonum, nil!\"\nThe lights are growing dim.\n</poem>\n\nThe poem, “Sunlight on the Sea” (The Philosophy of a Feast), is in the collection, \"Sea Spray and Smoke Drift\" (1876).\n\n\n<poem>\nMy mother made my need,\nmy father my conscience.\n\"De mortuis nil nisi bonum\".\n\nTherefore it will cost me\nbitterly to lie,\nto prostrate myself\nat the edge of a grave.\n\nI say to the earth\n“be kind to my mother,\nnow and later.\nSave, with your coldness,\nthe beauty we all envied.\"\n\nI became an old woman.\nI welcomed the dark\nI used so to fear.\n\"De mortuis nil nisi bonum\".\n</poem>\n\nThe poem, “The Open Grave”, is in the collection, \"Vita Nova\" (1999).\n\n\n\nThe clergyman asks: “Well, \"nil nisi bonum\". But did he really deserve . . . a place in here?”\n\nColonel Brighton’s reply is a pregnant silence.\n\n"}
{"id": "42017949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42017949", "title": "Fontainebleau Memorandum", "text": "Fontainebleau Memorandum\n\nThe Fontainebleau Memorandum is the name given to a document written by British Prime Minister David Lloyd George and his advisers during the Paris Peace Conference, 1919 that was drafting the Treaty of Versailles. It was titled ‘Some Considerations for the Peace Conference Before They Finally Draft Their Terms, March 25th, 1919’.\n\nLloyd George and the President of the United States, Woodrow Wilson, were opposed to the French demand for Allied occupation of the Rhineland except as a temporary measure to be used as a guarantee for German payment of reparations. Lloyd George therefore decided to set down in writing the limits to which the British delegation at the Conference were prepared to go. Lloyd George, General Smuts, Sir Henry Wilson, Sir Maurice Hankey and Philip Kerr retired to Fontainebleau to decide what kind of peace treaty they would like to see.\n\nThe memorandum called for a peace based on justice that would not provoke future wars. It also warned of the danger of provoking Germany into becoming Bolshevik and it endorsed the creation of a League of Nations to ensure international right and the abolition of competitive armaments.\n"}
{"id": "22764922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22764922", "title": "Gary Namie", "text": "Gary Namie\n\nGary Namie is social psychologist and anti-workplace bullying activist from Bellingham, Washington. He is the director of the Workplace Bullying Institute.\n\nNamie has an AB from Washington & Jefferson College in Washington, Pennsylvania, and an MA in Research Psychology from San Francisco State University and a PhD in social psychology from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1982. \n\nNamie taught psychology and management at US colleges for two decades. He taught the first university course in the US on workplace bullying. He was also a corporate manager for two regional hospital systems. He was the expert witness in the nation's first \"bullying trial\" in Indiana with the verdict upheld by the state Supreme Court.\n\nNamie launched a national campaign against workplace bullying in Benicia, California in 1997 with his wife Ruth, who has a doctorate in clinical psychology, after she was subject to harassment at work.\n\nIn 2007 and 2010 the Workplace Bullying Institute commissioned Zogby International to conduct the representative surveys of all adult Americans on the topic of workplace bullying. The survey reported that 1/3 of American workers have experienced workplace bullying. The Namies lobby for the \"Healthy Workplace Bill,\" which has been introduced in 25 states since 2003. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4252726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4252726", "title": "Gatifloxacin", "text": "Gatifloxacin\n\nGatifloxacin sold under the brand names Gatiflo, Tequin and Zymar, is an antibiotic of the fourth-generation fluoroquinolone family, that like other members of that family, inhibits the bacterial enzymes DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV. Bristol-Myers Squibb introduced Gatifloxacin in 1999 under the proprietary name Tequin for the treatment of respiratory tract infections, having licensed the medication from Kyorin Pharmaceutical Company of Japan. Allergan produces it in eye-drop formulation under the names Zymar and Zymaxid. In many countries, gatifloxacin is also available as tablets and in various aqueous solutions for intravenous therapy.\n\nA Canadian study published in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" in March 2006 claims Tequin can have significant side effects including dysglycemia. An editorial by\nDr. Jerry Gurwitz in the same issue called for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to consider giving Tequin a black box warning. This editorial followed distribution of a letter dated February 15 by Bristol-Myers Squibb to health care providers indicating action taken with the FDA to strengthen warnings for the medication. Subsequently it was reported on May 1, 2006 that Bristol-Myers Squibb would stop manufacture of Tequin, end sales of the drug after existing stockpiles were exhausted, and return all rights to Kyorin.\n\nUnion Health and Family Welfare Ministry of India on 18 March 2011 banned the manufacture, sale and distribution of Gatifloxacin as it caused certain adverse side effects\n\nHypersensitivity\n\nGatifloxacin is currently available in the US and Canada only as an ophthalmic solution. \nIn China it is sold in tablet as well as in eye drop formulations.Ophthalmic anti-infectives are generally well tolerated. The concentration of the drug observed following oral administration of 400 mg gatifloxacin systemically is approximately 800 times higher than that of the 0.5% Gatifloxacin eye drop. Given as an eye drop, Gatifloxacin Ophthalmic Solution 0.3% & 0.5% cause very low systemic exposures. Therefore, the systemic exposures resulting from the gatifloxacin ophthalmic solution are not likely to pose any risk for systemic toxicities.\n"}
{"id": "19913198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19913198", "title": "Guiding 2010 Centenary", "text": "Guiding 2010 Centenary\n\nThe Guiding 2010 Centenary consisted of celebrations around the world in which Girl Guides and Girl Scouts celebrated 100 years of the world Guide and Scout movement. It took place over three years, 2010-2012, reflecting the founding dates of many World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts member organisations.\n\nNational Guide and Scout movements added local celebrations to the international ones.\n\nThere were three Centenary Celebration Days. On 10 April each year, celebrations were held around the world under a unifying theme. The theme for 2010 was \"plant\". The theme for 2011 was \"grow\", and the theme for 2012 was \"share\".\n\nGirlguiding UK started its Centenary celebrations on 4 September 2009. The Centenary Camp was held from 2010-07-31 to 2010-08-07 at Harewood House. In September 2009, a maze to celebrate the beginnings of Guiding at Crystal Palace opened in Crystal Palace Park.\n\nThe tall ship Lord Nelson made a 100-day voyage around the coast of the UK to celebrate the centenary. The Lord Nelson set sail from Glasgow on 7 June 2010. She called at Oban, Aberdeen, Newcastle, Boston, London, Chatham, Portsmouth, Falmouth, Milford Haven and Whitehaven. At each port she took on new crew, many of whom had never sailed before.\n\nGirl Guides Australia celebrated 100 years of Guiding across Australia from September 2009 to February 2011.\n\nThe Australian Centenary Event (ACE) was held 3–9 January 2010 just outside Melbourne, Victoria. It was an international camp for 2500 girls, with another 500-700 leaders attending. Pippa Penguin was the mascot for ACE. ACE was to be held at Britannia Park, but was moved after high risk of bushfire.\n\nOther nationwide Centenary events included simultaneous 100 Downunder activities on May 23 and Promise renewals on 10-10-10 at 10am.\n\nThe Australian Government named 2010 the 'Year of the Girl Guide' in honour of the centenary celebrations. They also issued a commemorative $1 coin into circulation as well as 3 postage stamps to celebrate the event.\n\nThe Chain of Campfires event was held on June 19. Units across Australia lit campfires between 5pm and 9pm.\n\nGuiding Mosaic 2010 was held from July 8–17 at Guelph Lake Conservation Area in Southern Ontario. Over 2,500 girls and women attended the camp. Participants came from across Canada as well as from many countries, including Australia, Bangladesh, Jamaica, Japan, New Zealand and the United States.\n\nThe Girl Scouts of Korea (GSK) hosted the 13th Girl Scout International Camp in commemoration of the Centenary of Girl Guiding and Girl Scouting, from 25 to 31 July 2011 at Goseong World Jamboree campsite, Gangwon, Korea.\n\nGSUSA is in contact with museums, businesses and organizations to join with the Girl Scouts in showcasing Girl Scouts. GSUSA will have celebratory T-shirts and accessories, including jewelry and hats embellished with the 100th Anniversary logo available by mid-2011.\n\nPresident Barack Obama signed the \"Girl Scouts of the USA Commemorative Coin Act\" for the 100th Anniversary celebration. The act authorized the minting of 350,000 silver dollar coins in honor of Girl Scouts and the achievements of the 50 million women influenced by Girl Scouting during the last 100 years.\n\nThe celebration of the Anniversary will be kicked off by participating in the world-famous Pasadena, California Rose Parade of 2012, featuring the GSUSA 100th Anniversary float. A multi-award winning float design company is donating their services to design the float, which will be constructed and decorated totally by GSUSA Volunteers of all ages.\n\nColorado is staging a vigorous campaign to create a special license plate to honor the Girl Scout Centennial. The campaign has gone national with the Girl Scouts asking for votes at their website.\n\nThroughout 2016, the national association and its branches have held several events to celebrate 100 years of girl guiding since 1917.\n\nMany countries have issued postage stamps honouring the Guiding and Girl Scouting's centenary. These include:\n\n\nMany countries have issued coins honouring the Guiding and Girl Scouting's centenary. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "5499592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5499592", "title": "Hey, Rube!", "text": "Hey, Rube!\n\n\"Hey, Rube!\" is a slang phrase most commonly used in the United States by circus and traveling carnival workers (\"carnies\"), with origins in the middle 19th century. It is a rallying call, or a cry for help, used by carnies in a fight with outsiders. It is also sometimes used to refer to such a fight: \"The clown got a black eye in a Hey, Rube.\"\n\nIn the early days of circuses in America (c. 1800–1860), it was very common for carnies to get into fights with the locals as they travelled from town to town. Circuses were rowdy, loud, and often lewd affairs, where country people could gather, blow off steam, and voice political views. Mark Twain's classic description of a circus and other shows in \"Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\" provides illustration. It was a rare show that did not include at least some violence, and this often involved the members of the circus.\n\nWhen a carnie was attacked or in trouble, he would yell \"Hey, Rube!\" and all carnies in earshot would rush to his aid. Circus pioneer and legendary clown Dan Rice called it \"a terrible cry, [meaning] as no other expression in the language does, that a fierce deadly fight is on, that men who are far away from home [travelling circus workers] must band together in a struggle that means life or death to them.\" \"Hey, Rube!\" is still the safety phrase used by many modern theatrical performers to alert security of a violent audience member, especially in outdoor or festival environments where entertainers are in close proximity with large numbers of intoxicated patrons.\n\nThe origin of the expression can be traced to 1848 when a member of Dan Rice's troupe was attacked at a New Orleans dance house. That man yelled to his friend, named \"Reuben\", who rushed to his aid. Another explanation is that the name \"Rube\" is a slang term for country folk (e.g., \"Rustic Reubens\"), usually shortened to \"Rubes\".\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary's\" first entry for \"Hey, Rube!\" is from 1882, in the Chicago \"Times\" (3 Dec. Suppl. 12/4): \"A canvasman watching a tent is just like a man watching his home. He'll fight in a minute if the outsider cuts the canvas, and if a crowd comes to quarrel he will yell, ‘Hey Rube!’ That's the circus rallying cry, and look out for war when you hear it.\"\n\nThe term is still known and used today in circuses, but usually as an allusion to the \"glory days\" when circuses were rowdy affairs, rather than in actual fights.\n\n"}
{"id": "843837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=843837", "title": "Intermedio", "text": "Intermedio\n\nThe intermedio (also intromessa, introdutto, tramessa, tramezzo, intermezzo), in the Italian Renaissance, was a theatrical performance or spectacle with music and often dance which was performed between the acts of a play to celebrate special occasions in Italian courts. It was one of the important predecessors to opera, and an influence on other forms like the English court masque. Weddings in ruling families and similar state occasions were the usual occasion for the most lavish intermedi, in cities such as Florence and Ferrara. Some of the best documentation of intermedi comes from weddings in the Medici family, in particular the 1589 Medici wedding (between Christina of Lorraine and Ferdinando I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany), which featured what was undoubtedly both the most spectacular set of intermedi, and the best known, thanks to no fewer than 18 contemporary published festival books and sets of prints that were financed by the Grand Duke.\n\nIntermedi were written and performed from the late 15th century through the 17th century, although the peak of development of the genre was in the late 16th century. After 1600 the form merged with opera, for the most part, though intermedi continued to be used in non-musical plays in certain settings (for example in academies), and also continued to be performed between the acts of operas.\n\nThe first intermedii were not in Florence but in Ferrara at the end of the 15th century between the five acts of plays by the classical authors Plautus and Terence. Writing of the \"intermezzi\" at the wedding of Lucrezia Borgia in 1502, Isabella d'Este said that they were more interesting than the boring \"commedia\", \"a remark destined to be often repeated\". Ferrara intermezzi at this period were short and without a unifying theme; they included choruses, recitations and \"moresca\" dances. But by 1513 there was a unifying allegory, explained at the end. It was for Florentine public celebrations that Intermedii came into their own; several were organised by Machiavelli when he was part of the government of the Republic of Florence in the early 16th century, and the returning Medici adopted a policy of keeping the aristocracy occupied by involving them in productions.\n\nAs the intermedio developed in the 16th century, it grew more and more elaborate, often becoming a \"play within a play\"; for example during a five-act play, an intermedio would consist of four parts, which might be presented as a four-part metaphor of time passing in the play. This stage begins with \"Il commodo\", from the Medici wedding in Florence of Cosimo I and Eleanor of Toledo in 1539, where the four parts were morning, noon, afternoon, and night, represented with an elaborate mechanical artificial sun, with singing and dancing appropriate to each time. Some critics of the time noted that the intermedi had become so elaborate that the play had begun to serve as intermedi to the intermedi.\n\nOriginally intermedi had used the sets already on the stage from the main play, typically fairly simple ones for a comedy, with a few extra pieces, but later they had their own sets, which a mythological subject required to be more elaborate. Vasari's production for yet another Medici wedding in 1565 \"embodied stupendous advances in engineering technique\" with all the elaborate movements of scenery done without a curtain in full view of the audience. According to Roy Strong: \"the designs for the 1589 intermezzi are crucial, for they are the earliest mass-disseminated illustrations of what became a norm throughout Europe for theatrical visual experience for the next three hundred years, the proscenium arch behind which receded ranks of side wings, the vista closed by a back-shutter.\" Eventually the form acquired a tradition and cohesiveness that allowed it to stand on its own, and it was thus a logical development to combine the existing features with sung, acted parts, and be absorbed into the new artform of opera, which also drew from the traditions of monody and madrigal comedy. Jacopo Peri, the composer of Dafne, the first opera, was one of the composers, and almost certainly performers, in the 1589 Medici intermezzi, and the librettist for both, Ottavio Rinuccini, seems to have recycled in \"Dafne\" some of the material from the 1589 Delos scene (illustrated at top).\n\n\"Festival books\", produced as souvenirs of lavish festivities, contain detailed descriptions of many important intermedi, such as those for the Medici wedding of 1589, for which 286 costumes were made. Although music written specially for this occasion survives (see discography below), this is usually not the case, and music written for other occasions, for example madrigals and instrumental pieces, was often used in intermedi. The subject matter of the intermedio was usually a mythological or pastoral story, which could be told in mime, by costumed singers or actors, or by dance, or any combination of these. There was invariably a political message, even if this was limited to general glorification of the ruling family; at times more specific messages were intended. Some thematic connection with the main play might be made, though intermedii could be repeated with different plays from the one they were written for. \n\nNumerous drawings and engravings of the stage sets survive, as well as texts of the libretti and descriptions of the music and action; the 1589 Medici intermezzi were especially well recorded, and \"were to be the fount of Italian baroque scenography as well as influencing the development of the stage north of the Alps, above all the Stuart court masques designed by Inigo Jones\". The actual content in terms of staging, music, instrumentation, presence of singers, actors, dancers, or mime was highly variable throughout the period, and sometimes all of these features were present. The 1589 intermedi were performed in the recently completed theatre in the Uffizi Palace before an audience of about three thousand, and three further performances were given some days after the end of the wedding festivities. \nFurther significant sets of Medici intermedi were produced for the weddings in 1600 of Henry IV of France and Marie de' Medici, and then in 1608 of Grand Duke Cosimo II and a Habsburg princess, Maria Magdalena of Austria. However the 1600 celebrations also included a portent of things to come in the form of performances of Jacopo Peri's opera \"Euridice\", the earliest surviving example of the form.\n\nOf the various intermedi that were performed, only the music to some parts of \"Il commodo\" (1539) and, through a 1591 printed edition by Cristofano Malvezzi, an almost complete version of \"La Pellegrina\" (1589) are known to have survived.\n\nIn 1539 most of the pieces are in four and five parts so much of this music is suitable for domestic playing. The 1589 music is very different being largely big set pieces for 6, 12, 18 or even 30 parts; 41 instrumentalists were required in all, some hidden around the stage as there was not room for them all in one place. Smaller scale pieces are often difficult florid monody of the Caccini \"new music\" variety.\n\nOf the surviving intermedi only two numbers were \"a cappella\", (not counting the madrigals which were sung at the banquet in 1539 which of course are not intermedi). This means we have surviving descriptions of precise instrumentation.\n\nClassical humanist dramatic theory says a play should have action taking place during one entire day. These intermedi do not follow what were believed to be the classical instructions, having an overture item, \"Vattene almo riposo\", and a night time ending for tenor voice accompanied by four sackbuts and an extra coda the bacchanale, \"Baccho, Baccho, E U O E\".\n\nThe similar form which developed in France at the same time was called the intermède; it was more reliant on dance than the Italian version. The French court under Catherine de' Medici was also staging court festivities of increasing lavishness – Catherine's granddaughter was the Medici bride in 1589. The masque in England also had many similarities to the intermedio, although it did not originate as a \"filler\" between acts in a play in the same way. The later 18th century intermezzo in opera showed a reversal of the Renaissance scheme; now a single short comic intermezzo was inserted between the acts of a heroic opera seria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7692130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7692130", "title": "International Horror and Sci-Fi Film Festival", "text": "International Horror and Sci-Fi Film Festival\n\nInternational Horror and Sci-Fi Film Festival is a film festival dedicated to the genres of horror and science fiction that is held annually in Tempe, Arizona, United States. The festival was founded in 2005 by Brian Pulido and Chris LaMont.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31782767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31782767", "title": "JavaZone", "text": "JavaZone\n\nJavaZone is a software development conference, organized in Oslo, Norway.\n\nThe first event in the JavaZone series started out as a Sun Microsystems event in 2002, with 350 participants in the basement of Chateau Neuf, one of the main hang-outs for Oslo University students. The Norwegian Java User Group, javaBin, was given the responsibility for ensuring the technical quality of the event.\n\nIn 2004, javaBin took over the entire event, with Sun Microsystems contributing as a partner, on a par with the other partners. javaBin moved the conference to the SAS Hotel on Holbergs plass in Oslo. By then, it had grown to 800 participants and 23 partners.\n\nOver the next three years, interest in JavaZone increased steadily, with 800, 1,000 and then 1,400 participants, and it reached an all-time high in 2008, with 2,300 participants and 47 partners. Each year since 2005 the conference has been sold out.\n\nJavaZone HD was a new concept introduced at JavaZone 2010 with live streaming of all talks in High Definition video from Oslo to the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in Trondheim. JavaZone HD also featured a social networking event on the evening of the first conference day, similar to the larger event in Oslo.\n\nAweZone is a festival on the end of the first day with various concerts, stand-up shows and chillout zones for the conference attendees to select from. It allows attendees and speakers to network and socialize after the day's conference programme is over. From 2011 through 2014, AweZone took place at Rockefeller Center in Oslo.\n\nAweZone first took place at the tenth JavaZone. Before that, there was ClubZone, consisting of separate event locations. During its last couple of years, the ClubZone event was organized at the Queens Pub & Pianobar, Dattera til Hagen, Gloria Flames, Ivars and Cafe con Bar near the Oslo Spektrum arena at the center of Oslo.\n\nAt the weekend following JavaZone 2010 a two-day hike to Besseggen in Norway was organized for the speakers who wanted to attend.\n\nJavaZone has featured a wide range of speakers, both international and domestic.\n\n"}
{"id": "5546511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5546511", "title": "John Peters (RAF officer)", "text": "John Peters (RAF officer)\n\nSquadron Leader John Peters (born 1961) is a former pilot of the Royal Air Force.\n\nHe attended the independent Churcher's College in east Hampshire, leaving in 1980.\n\nBy the age of 17, he had his pilot's licence. He attended the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (commonly known as UMIST, now part of the University of Manchester since 2004), gaining a BSc in Building Technology in 1983. He was an RAF university cadet, joining the RAF in 1980, training at RAF Woodvale with the Manchester and Salford University Air Squadron. He later graduated with an MBA from the University of Leicester.\n\nAfter his RAF training, he was based at RAF Chivenor and RAF Lossiemouth.\n\nHe became a staff pilot in 1987 at the Air Navigation School (ANS) of No. 6 Flying Training School at RAF Finningley. In 1988, he moved to XV Squadron at RAF Laarbruch after converting to the Tornado GR1 when a Flight Lieutenant.\n\nOn his first mission during Operation Desert Storm, when aged 29, an ultra-low level daylight mission on Ar Rumaylah airfield, while acting as number two to Squadron Leader Paul \"Pablo\" Mason, his Panavia Tornado \"ZD 791\" of XV Squadron was hit at fifty feet by a shoulder-launched SAM SA-14, and he was captured by the military of Iraq. After capture he was shown, bruised and apparently beaten, on television.\n\nHe received around 25,000 letters from well-wishers following the appearance. He said that he was \"treated very specially\" as a result of his experiences and found it difficult to live up to the image the public had of him. At the end of the war, he was released and returned to the RAF for a further ten years.\n\nHaving been at RAF Brüggen, he moved to RAF Cottesmore (then in Leicestershire) in 1993, becoming an instructor on the TTTE. He graduated with an MBA from the University of Leicester Management Centre, with his dissertation being \"The Challenge of Change in the Royal Air Force\" .\n\nHe became a Squadron Leader in 1997, moving to Turkey, and left the RAF after 18 years.\n\nFollowing repatriation by the Red Cross, Peters co-authored a book, \"Tornado Down\", with his navigator, John Nichol. As of 2009 he works as a motivational speaker, often at university management schools. He is a practitioner of Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI). He has also worked as a representative of the Association of MBAs.\n\nSince 1999, he has been a partner of UPH Ltd.\n\nHe married Helen and has two children. His son Guy, who is to be commissioned into the Royal Tank Regiment, won the Queen's Medal (awarded to the Officer Cadet gaining the highest score in military, practical and academic subjects) at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in 2014. The family live in Worcestershire near Bromsgrove. When at Cottesmore, and studying at the University of Leicester, Peters lived in Rutland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15861", "title": "July 5", "text": "July 5\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "740710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=740710", "title": "Laura Keene", "text": "Laura Keene\n\nLaura Keene (20 July 1826 – 4 November 1873) was a British stage actress and theatre manager. In her twenty-year career, she became known as the first powerful female manager in New York. She is most famous for being the lead actress in the play \"Our American Cousin\", which was attended by President Abraham Lincoln at Ford's Theater in Washington, D.C., on the evening of his assassination.\n\nKeene was born Mary Frances Moss in Winchester, England. She was the fourth and final child of Tomas and Jane Moss (\"née\" King). Her aunt was British actress Elizabeth Yates. At the age of 18, she married British Army officer Henry Wellington Taylor (some sources identify Taylor as \"John\"). Taylor was reportedly the nephew and godson of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington. The couple had two daughters, Emma (born 1846) and Clara Marie Stella (born 1849). After being discharged from the army, Taylor opened his own tavern. Around 1850, Taylor was arrested, though the nature of his crime is now unknown. After being convicted, he was reportedly sent from England to Australia on a prison ship. Keene would later travel to Australia in order to locate Taylor to divorce him but could never determine his whereabouts. (Some accounts say that Keene did find Taylor but he refused to consent to a divorce). They remained married until Taylor's death in 1860.\n\nAfter her husband was sent to prison, Keene was left alone with two children and no money. On the advice of her aunt, actress Elizabeth Yates, she decided to pursue a career as an actress, and would apprentice at her aunt's theatre. As it was then socially unacceptable for a woman with children and no husband to act in the theatre, she changed her name to \"Laura Keene\". Her now widowed mother Jane took over raising her two daughters.\n\nKeene made her professional debut as Pauline in \"The Lady of Lyons\" in London in October 1851. This was followed by performances at London's Royal Olympic Theatre and Royal Lyceum Theatre, including several months working under Madame Vestris. In 1852, less than a year performing in Britain, Keene accepted an offer from James William Wallack to go to New York City, and serve as the leading lady in the stock company at his successful theater.\n\nHer first performance at his theatre was in \"The Will\" as Albino Mandeville. She enjoyed great popularity during her time at Wallack's Theatre (20 September 1852, through 22 November 1853). In order to have greater control over her career, she then entered into theater management with the help of John Lutz, whom she married in 1860 and was with her for the rest of her career. She left Wallack's company unexpectedly one night and moved to Baltimore. Keene leased the Charles Street Theater, in Baltimore, from 24 December 1853, to 2 March 1854, where she acted as manager, director and performer. She started doing touring performances in California (6 April through 29 July 1854), in Australia (23 October 1854 through January 1855), and again in California (9 April through 4 October 1855). During the first stint in California, she was hired by Catherine Norton Sinclair to play opposite Edwin Booth. After spending a month as the manager and lessee of the Union Theatre in San Francisco (from 29 June through 29 July 1854), Keene and Booth toured to Australia. Booth's drunken behavior in Australia put an end to their relationship and their tour. On her return to California, she also managed the American Theatre. She managed and performed there for a few years until a new law was passed in California banning any form of entertainment on the Sabbath. This greatly decreased the attendance of theatre performances and gave Keene reason to leave and start a new project in New York.\n\nUpon returning to New York City, Keene leased the Metropolitan Theatre, remodeled it, renamed it Laura Keene's Varieties. She served as manager, director and star performer until 23 December when William Burton, purchased the building, and moved his own operation there. (It was renamed Burton's New Theatre, and then the Winter Garden.)\nAt this point, she lined up investors, along with an architect who specialized in theaters, and a new theater was constructed to her specifications. Named the Laura Keene's Theatre, it opened on 18 November 1856. In November 1857 she put on \"The Sea of Ice\" to financial success.\n\nIn 1858, \"Our American Cousin\" debuted in Laura Keene's Theater. On the night of 14 April 1865, Keene's company, which primarily included John Dyott and Harry Hawk, were performing \"Our American Cousin\" at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C.. In attendance that night were President Abraham Lincoln and his wife First Lady Mary Todd Lincoln. Actor John Wilkes Booth fatally shot President Lincoln while Lincoln watched the play from the presidential box; Booth then fled the theatre. Amid the confusion, Keene made her way to the presidential box where Lincoln lay dying and cradled the mortally wounded President's head in her lap. President Lincoln's fatal head wound bled on her dress, staining her cuff. The cuff was later donated to the National Museum of American History.\n\nStage entertainment turned over quickly in that era, with few productions exceeding a dozen performances, but Keene bucked those odds. An 1857 show called \"The Elves\" ran for a record 50 performances. Moreover, 1860 was to prove itself an important year for her theater and American drama as well. On 29 March, she premiered Dion Boucicault's \"The Colleen Bawn,\" which ran for six weeks until the end of the season on 12 May; the highlight of this play was the creation of an ocean island on stage in a scene which culminated with the hero diving into the ocean to save the colleen bawn Eily O'Connor. (Betting on the play's success, Boucicault took \"The Colleen Bawn\" to London, where it opened on 10 September 1860 and ran for 230 performances, becoming the first long run in the history of English theater.) In November 1860, Keene premiered the musical \"The Seven Sisters,\" which featured extravagant sets and ran for 253 performances, an astonishing total for the time.\n\nBy 1863, Keene was forced to give up managing her own theatre due to poor health. Keene continued as manager and star of a company which toured the United States for most of the next ten years. She also served as manager of the Chestnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia, from 20 September 1869, through 25 March 1870. Her final performance was on 4 July 1873, while touring in northern Pennsylvania.\n\nKeene's second husband, John Lutz, died on 18 April 1869. On 4 November 1873, Keene died of tuberculosis at the age of 47 at Montclair, New Jersey. She is buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1701677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1701677", "title": "Man on the Moon (song)", "text": "Man on the Moon (song)\n\n\"Man on the Moon\" is a song by the American alternative rock band R.E.M., released as the second single from their 1992 album \"Automatic for the People\". The lyrics were written by lead singer Michael Stipe, and the music by drummer Bill Berry and guitarist Peter Buck, and credited to the whole band as usual. The song was well received by critics and peaked at number 30 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 18 on the UK Singles Chart. It remains one of R.E.M.'s most popular songs and was included on the compilations \"\" and \"Part Lies, Part Heart, Part Truth, Part Garbage 1982–2011\".\n\nLyrically, the song is a tribute to the comedian and performer Andy Kaufman with numerous references to his career including his Elvis impersonation, wrestling, and the film \"My Breakfast with Blassie\". The song's title and chorus refer to the moon landing conspiracy theories as an oblique allusion to rumors that Kaufman's death in 1984 was faked. The song gave its name to \"Man on the Moon\" (1999), Miloš Forman's film based on Kaufman's life, and was featured prominently in the film's soundtrack.\n\n\"Man on the Moon\" is a mid-tempo country-rock song following a verse-chorus structure with an added pre-chorus and an instrumental bridge following the second and third choruses. The song is somewhat unusual in that the verses are unequal in length, with six lines in the first verse but only four in the second and third verses.\n\nAn early instrumental demo of the song was known to the band as \"C to D Slide\". Guitarist Peter Buck has explained how the music came together: \"'Man on the Moon' was something that Bill [Berry] had, this one chord change that he came in with, which was C to D like the verse of the song, and he said: 'I don't know what to do with that.' I used to finish some of Bill's things... he would come up with the riffs, but I would be the finish guy for that. I sat down and came up with the chorus, the bridges, and so forth. I remember we showed it to Mike and Michael when they came in later; definitely we had the song finished. I think Bill played bass and I played guitar; we kept going around with it. I think we might have played some mandolin on it in the rehearsal studio.\"\n\nMichael Stipe later explained in an interview with Charlie Rose how the lyrics were written independently of the music, which had no prior association with the song's eventual lyrical content regarding Kaufman. Stipe recounted that the rest of the members of R.E.M. had written and performed the music of the song and recorded it along with the rest of the \"Automatic for the People\" album during studio sessions in Seattle. As of the final week of the recording sessions, Stipe was still struggling to write lyrics for the song, and the other band members continued to plead with him to finish it. Stipe attempted to argue that the track should be an instrumental, but his bandmates were insistent. Stipe listened to the track on a walk around Seattle on his Walkman cassette player and was inspired to write about the performances of entertainer Andy Kaufman. After Stipe went back to the studio to complete the vocal track, the master was mixed that night and sent out the following day to be mastered.\n\nThe song's lyrics do not tell a conventional story, and may instead be seen as a collection of cultural references, images and ideas. There are repeated mentions of Andy Kaufman, including references to his Elvis impersonation and work with wrestlers Fred Blassie and Jerry Lawler. Some critics find the song also invokes the conspiracy theories surrounding the moon landing and Elvis Presley as an indirect nod to the persistent rumors that Kaufman faked his own death. Speaking in 2017 to the \"NME\", Mills explained that the perceived ambiguity of Kaufman's legacy, including questions of whether he was a comedian or a performance artist, and whether or not his work was funny or irritating, was a way to frame other questions about life within the song:\n\nHe's the perfect ghost to lead you through this tour of questioning things. Did the moon landing really happen? Is Elvis really dead? He was kind of an ephemeral figure at that point so he was the perfect guy to tie all this stuff together as you journey through childhood and touchstones of life.\n\nOther lyrical references include persons from the history of science and religion, as well as board-games and the rock band Mott the Hoople of whom Stipe had been a fan in his youth, and whose music he associated with the years of Kaufman's original television broadcasts. Regarding the cryptic lyrics, critic Greg Kot wrote that the song \"presents a surreal vision of heaven.\" According to Ann Powers, \"Mentioning Kaufman in the same breath as Moses and Sir Isaac Newton, Stipe makes a game of human endeavor, insisting that it all ends in dust. 'Let's play Twister, let's play Risk,' Stipe jokes to the notables he's invoked. 'I'll see you in heaven if you make the list.'\"\n\nThe lyrics to \"Man on the Moon\" also feature a prominent repeated refrain of \"Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah\". Stipe has explained that his friend Kurt Cobain was in the habit of placing \"yeah\" in the lyrics to the songs of his band, Nirvana, and that Stipe intended to outdo him, even to the extent of counting the \"yeahs\".\n\n\"Man on the Moon\" was released as the second single from \"Automatic for the People\" on November 21, 1992, reaching number 30 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 18 on the UK Singles Chart. The song was enthusiastically received by critics. Writing for the \"New York Times\", Ann Powers said it \"shines with a wit that balances R.E.M.'s somber tendencies.\" Stewart Mason went even further in his review for Allmusic, calling the song \"near-perfect\", \"almost inarguably Stipe's pinnacle as a singer\", and \"one of R.E.M.'s most enduring achievements\". The song was listed at number 19 on the \"Village Voice\" \"Pazz & Jop\" year-end critics' poll in 1993.\n\nThe song's video, directed by Peter Care, was shot over three days in the desert, at Lancaster in the Antelope Valley area of California, in October 1992. Care kept a journal of the unusually long planning, filming, and editing process, which was published by \"Raygun\" magazine and reprinted in the R.E.M. fan club newsletter. It gave a clear idea of the amount of work, money, and attention-to-detail involved.\n\nThe video depicts Michael Stipe, attired in a cowboy hat, walking along a desert road before leaping onto a passing truck (driven by Bill Berry) and hitching a ride to a truck stop where Peter Buck is tending bar and Mike Mills is shooting pool. Berry trades his truck seat for a bar stool, and along with a few of the other customers (in the shooting, they used actors and non-actors), sings along during the choruses. Stipe eats an order of fries, and then leaves and walks back into the desert. The video is punctuated with moon-related images, including footage of the NASA moon landings, an orrery in motion and a clip from Georges Méliès' 1902 film, \"A Trip to the Moon\". Television footage of Kaufman wrestling and impersonating Elvis Presley is also shown.\n\nThis video, which uses the shorter version instead of the full album version, was ranked #41 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's The 100 Top Music Videos, and has been described as 'iconic' by the \"NME\" Andrew Trendell.\n\nAll songs written by Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills and Michael Stipe except as noted.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1544394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1544394", "title": "María Elena Moyano", "text": "María Elena Moyano\n\nMaría Elena Moyano Delgado (29 November 1958 – February 15, 1992) was a Peruvian community organizer, feminist and activist of Afro-Peruvian descent who was assassinated by the Maoist Shining Path (\"Sendero Luminoso\") Terrorist group. Although only one of many atrocities committed during the most violent period of Peru's modern history, her death resulted in a public outcry.\n\nMoyano was born in the Barranco district of Lima. Her activism began in her teens, as a member of the \"Movimiento de Jóvenes Pobladores,\" a youth movement in Villa El Salvador, a vast shantytown \"(pueblo joven)\" on the outskirts of the capital, largely populated by migrants from the interior of the country.\n\nIn 1984, at age 25, she was elected president of the \"Federación Popular de Mujeres de Villa El Salvador\" (Fepomuves), a federation of women from Villa El Salvador. Under her leadership, the organization grew to encompass public kitchens, health committees, the \"Vaso de Leche\" program (which supplied children with milk), income-generating projects, and committees for basic education. In 1990, Moyano left her position in Fepomuves and shortly thereafter was elected deputy mayor of the municipality of Villa El Salvador.\n\nMaria Elena Moyano also supported the Organization Vaso de Leche (Glass of Milk). Organization Vaso de Leche organized to deliver milk to Lima's poor neighborhoods so that children could have at least one cup of milk a day.\n\nMaria Elena Moyano’s mother laundered clothes for a living, and had seven children. Moyano grew up with her six siblings: Rodolfo, Raul, Carlos, Narda, Eduardo, and Martha. For many years Maria Elena wanted to be a secretary, but her mother encouraged her to study law. Moyano's husband, Gustavo encouraged her to apply to Garcilaso de la Vega University so she could study sociology. The movie \"Courage\" (1999) depicted her studying poverty in Peru, and her turn towards secularism and socialism. Moyano believed that soup kitchens were a form of expressing grievances.\n\nShining Path, founded by Abimael Guzman Reynoso, was trying to consolidate its hold on the poorer neighborhoods of Lima. They were suspicious of all social organizations in Peru. Shining Path guerrillas planted a bomb on September 9, 1991 in a distribution center and blamed Maria Elena Moyano. Clearly, they falsely accused her in order to silence her.\n\nFear and terror pushed women (who lived in poverty) to speak up, and get involved in organized groups. The war between Shining Path and the military affected women for most of them were raped by both parts. Cholas (the pejorative term for indigenous Peruvian females) were raped the most by men in the military, reported by Robin Kirk on a report she created for the Women’s Rights Project of Human Rights Watch. Shining Path additionally intimidated those that worked in social organizations through death threats, and ultimately killed quite a few.\n\nGuzman, the leader of Shining Path was captured in September 1992. This was during the government of Alberto Fujimori who suspended the Constitution, dissolved congress and created a tight bond with the military. Under Fujimori’s rule, many were arrested and executed.\n\nShining Path considered Maria Elena as a conter-revolutionary and as a manipulator. She blamed the leftist movement in Peru for supporting Shining Path. Maria Elena went on to publicly confront Shining Path by calling them terrorists, and no longer revolutionaries. She also confronted the police, accusing them of violence and murders.\n\nIn a distributed pamphlet, Shining Path attacked Maria Elena accusing her of cheating, lying, and planting bombs. Maria Elena rebutted each attack by stating that she would never “destroy what [she] has built with [her] own hands.”\n\nOn February 14, Maria Elena protested. She was the leader of a march against Shining Path. The people carried white banners as a symbol of peace. After the protest, she was gunned down at fund-raising meal for a group of women.\n\nAfter actively confronting Shining Path, she began to contemplate her death. She had good reason since many women activists in Peru were murdered. Maria Antenati Hilario and Margarita Astride de la Cruz were murdered for their attempt at change. Most importantly was the death of Juana Lopez in August 1991, where two weeks later Maria Elena began receiving death threats. The Shining Path began to tell her to leave her post, or she would die.\n\nShining Path guerrillas assassinated Maria Elena Moyano on February 15, 1992. It was the defiance that Maria Elena Moyano illustrated that triggered her death. She was killed in front of her son: Gustavo and her husband David Pineki (she married him in 1980).\n\nThousands of people attended her funeral. Later, in a plaza in the center of Villa El Salvador, a statue honoring Moyano was erected, and her autobiography was published.\n\nThe assassination of Moyano was one of the last major atrocities carried out by Shining Path. In September 1992, Guzmán was arrested and the leadership of the organization fell shortly thereafter. Subsequently, Shining Path was largely eradicated.\n\nMoyano has been honored through a film after her death: Coraje (Courage). The film was written and directed by Alberto Durant.\n\nA country filled with violence, inequality and danger; Maria Elena Moyano proved to be a signal of hope when approximately 300,000 people accompanied her coffin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38833452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38833452", "title": "Ottoman wars in Asia", "text": "Ottoman wars in Asia\n\nOttoman wars in Asia refers to the wars involving the Ottoman Empire in Asia. Ottoman Empire was founded at the beginning of the 14th century. Its original settlement was in the north west Anatolia (Asiatic part of the modern Turkey) where it was a small beylik (principality). Its main rival was Byzantine Empire. In 1350s Ottomans were able to cross the Dardanelles strait and eventually they conquered whole south east Europe. Although they mainly concentrated on Europe, they also fought in Asia.\n\nIn the early years of the 14th century, there were many Turkish beyliks in Anatolia. The first Ottoman sultan (then known as bey) Osman I was careful not to provoke the neighbouring beyliks. Second sultan Orhan was the very first Ottoman ruler who was engaged in a war against other beyliks. He annexed the territory of Karesi beylik, another beylik to the south of Ottoman beylik. His son Murad I established hegemony on most of the beyliks in Anatolia mainly by diplomacy (dowery, purchase etc.) Bayezid I continued expansion policy by harsher methods. At the end of the 14th century most beyliks were incorporated into Ottoman realm. However, in 1402, Beyazıt was defeated by Timur, a Turkic conqueror from Turkestan in the Battle of Ankara and the newly annexed beyliks (except Karesi) regained their independence. During the reigns of Mehmed I, Murad II and Mehmed II (the Conqueror), Ottomans reconquered all beyliks with the exception of two, which were the vassals of Mamluk Empire in Egypt.\n\nDuring Ottoman expansion, there were only three important Christian territories; Cilician Kingdom of Armenia in Çukurova (Cilicia in south Turkey) was conquered by the Mamluks of Egypt in 1375 and İzmir, a part of Knights Hospitaller, was captured by Timur in 1402. Ottomans captured İzmir from Aydın Beylik. Empire of Trebizond in east Black Sea region was conquered by Mehmed II in 1461. There were also some Christian (Republic of Genoa, Republic of Venice) forts some of which were in alliance with Karaman Beylik. When Ottomans conquered Karaman, the most important beylik, during the reign of Mehmed II, these forts also fell to Ottoman Empire.\n\nTowards the end of the 14th century east of Central Anatolia was under the hegemony of a Turkmen leader named Kadı Burhaneddin. Bayezid I tried to conquer his territory without success. After his death and the shorth-term Timurid rule, Ottomans faced with a more powerful rival. In the 15th century tribes in the east, were united into a tribal confederation named Akkoyunlu (Turkish phrase meaning \"White Sheep\"). In 1473, Mehmed II defeated Akkoyunlu sultan Uzun Hasan in the Battle of Otlukbeli. After this battle all of the Central Anatolia and parts of East Anatolia became Ottoman possessions.\n\nEgypt was under the rule of a military cast named Mamluks. Mamluks were actually Turks and Circassians. Ottomans were unable to defeat Mamluks in the initial clashes during the reign of Beyazıt II. However the Mamluks supported Safavid Persia against the Ottomans and this give the Ottoman sultan Selim I (the Grim) the necessary cause to wage a war to Egypt. His grand vizier Hadim Sinan Pasha defeated Dulkadir Beylik in Southeast Anatolia, a Mamluk vassal in 1516. Ramazan Beylik, the other Mamluk vassal in Çukurova (Cilicia) voluntarily accepted the Ottoman suzerainty. During Selim’s long campaign to Egypt in 1516-18, Mamluks were defeated three times; in the Battle of Marj Dabiq, the Battle of Yaunis Khan and the Battle of Ridanieh (The first and the third personally commanded by Selim and the second by Hadim Sinan Pasha). Syria, Palestine, Jordan and Lebanon as well as Egypy fell under Ottoman domination. Hejaz region (of Saudi Arabia) voluntarily accepted Ottoman suzerainty.\n\nAfter the death of Uzun Hasan of Akkoyunlu, Ismail I of Safavid house began controlling Persia and East Anatolia. Sect differences between the two countries led to a war. In 1514 Selim I defeated Persian army in the Battle of Chaldiran and annexed most of East Anatolia. War continued during the reign of Suleyman I (the Magnificent) . Three of Suleyman’s campaigns were directed to Persia. (1534–35, 1548–49, 1553–55) The war ended by the Treaty of Amasya in 1555. Whole East Anatolia as well as mid and north Iraq became parts of the Ottoman Empire. Meanwhile, south Iraq fell voluntarily to Ottoman suzerainty. Ottomans annexed most of West Iran and Caucasus by the Treaty of Ferhat Pasha at the end of the renewed war of 1578-1590 during the reign of Murad III. But, after the attack of Shah Abbas of Persia, they had to abandon their 1590-gains by the Treaty of Nasuh Pasha in 1612 during the reign of Ahmed I. In 1623, Persians also captured Baghdad in mid Iraq, but Murad IV recaptured the city in 1639. At the end of the war the present western borderline of Iran was drawn by the Treaty of Zuhab.\n\nDuring Afsharid and Qajar dynasties of Persia, Ottomans fought against Persia numerous times with relatively little changes in the gained and lost territories except during the reign of Nader Shah, when large territories were abandoned to Persia but were recovered upon his death. At the end of the wars, with the last one ending in 1823, the border line drawn was almost the same as that of the Treaty of Zuhab. (Present Turkey-Iran and Iraq-Iran border lines.)\n\nIn 1538, Suleyman I sent a navy to the Indian Ocean. Although Hadım Suleiman Pasha, the captain of the navy failed to capture any bridgehead in India, he captured Aden and most of Yemen. A few years later, a Portuguese Navy tried to dominate in the Red Sea after Süleyman Pasha's return. However Ottoman captain Piri Reis (an important cartographer of the 16th century) defeated the navy and restored the Ottoman dominance in the Red Sea in 1548. In 1552, he captured Muscat and the south coasts of Arabian Peninsula. Later he also captured small forts in the Persian Gulf. Ottoman dominance on most of Arabian Peninsula continued up to 20th century.\n\nGeneral Napoleon Bonaparte of France invaded Egypt in 1798 and tried to annex Palestine as well. He easily captured Jaffa. His next target was Acre (now in north Israel) for the city controlled the route between Syria and Egypt. But after the stubborn defense of the city under the governor Cezzar Ahmet Pasha he had to retreat.\n\nAfter the Treaty of Zuhab in 1638, Ottoman Empire was able to keep the Asiatic territories up to the 20th century except for the disputable territories of the south and east coasts of the Arabian Peninsula. In the early years of the 20th century the main problem was the rebel in Yemen which was subdued. Ottoman Empire fought against the Allies in the First World War and was defeated. According to Armistice of Mudros Ottoman Empire accepted the loss of all territories in the Arabian Peninsula, Syria, Palestine, Jordan, Lebanon and most of Iraq. Although Turkey and North Iraq were still under Ottoman rule, soon Allies occupied the Mediterranean coast and North Iraq. They also offered Aegean coast (as well as Thrace) to Greece and eastern Anatolia to newly establiahed Armenia by the Treaty of Sèvres. However the treaty became ineffective during the Turkish War of Independence. At the end of the war the Ottoman Empire ceased to exist in 1922. The newly established Turkish Republic kept Mediterranean and Aegean coasts as well as the Eastern Anatolia by the Treaty of Lausanne.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33997230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33997230", "title": "Passivation (spacecraft)", "text": "Passivation (spacecraft)\n\nThe passivation of a spacecraft is the removal of any internal energy contained in the vehicle at the end of its mission or useful life. Spent upper stages are generally passivated after their use as launch vehicles is complete, as are satellites when they for their initial design purpose. \n\nFor satellites in geosynchronous orbit, both the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and United Nations (UN) recommend that GEO-satellites be designed such that they can, at end of life, remove themselves to a disposal orbit some above the GEO belt, and then passivate themselves by removing any internally stored energy. \"There is no [international] enforcement of these recommendations\" but the majority of these GEO spacecraft are being boosted up into the recommended graveyard orbits. \n\nThe largest component of internally stored energy is generally unused propellant, although batteries are also important sources of stored energy that require passivation. \n\nEmpirical history has shown that stored energy that is not dissipated can often become an energy source for initiating an explosion or fragmentation, resulting in unwanted manmade space debris.\n\nWithin national regimes, where national governments can control the launch licenses of launch vehicles and spacecraft, there are some enforceable requirements for passivation. \n\nThe US government has implemented a set of standard practices for both civilian (NASA) and military (DoD/USAF) orbital debris mitigation that require passivation. \"All on-board sources of stored energy of a spacecraft or upper stage should be depleted or safed when they are no longer required for mission operations or postmission disposal. Depletion should occur as soon as such an operation does not pose an unacceptable risk to the payload. Propellant depletion burns and compressed gas releases should be designed to minimize the probability of subsequent accidental collision and to minimize the impact of a subsequent accidental explosion.\"\n"}
{"id": "239593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239593", "title": "Paul Gilbert", "text": "Paul Gilbert\n\nPaul Brandon Gilbert (born November 6, 1966), is an American hard rock/heavy metal guitarist. He is best known for being the co-founder of the band Mr. Big. He was also a member of Racer X, with whom he released several albums. Following Mr. Big's disbandment in 1996, Gilbert launched a solo career, for which he has released numerous solo albums, and featured in numerous collaborations and guest appearances on other musicians' albums.\n\nGilbert has been voted fourth-best on GuitarOne magazine's \"Top 10 Greatest Guitar Shredders of All Time\". He has also ranked in \"Guitar World's\" \"50 Fastest Guitarists of All Time\" list.\n\nGilbert was raised mostly in the small Pittsburgh suburb of Greensburg, Pennsylvania. He began playing music at age five; by age 15, he was touring local clubs with his band (Tau Zero), and had been featured in Guitar Player magazine (alongside fellow up-and-comer Yngwie Malmsteen). Around 1981, Gilbert first contacted Mike Varney (founder of Shrapnel Records), asking for a gig with metal mega-star Ozzy Osbourne. At the time, Varney couldn't think why Osbourne would want a 15-year-old guitarist; but, after listening to Gilbert's demo tape, he changed his mind. They continued talking over the next 3 years, culminating in Gilbert's 1984 cross-country move to Los Angeles to attend the GIT (Guitar Institute of Technology). Even at the young age of 17, Gilbert quickly became a local legend due to his advanced alternate picking technique, record-breaking speed, his young age, and his massive repertoire of cover material. He was hired as a GIT instructor in 1985, and recorded Racer X's debut album \"Street Lethal\" soon after.\n\nFormed in Los Angeles in 1985, Racer X was originally composed of Paul Gilbert (lead guitar), Juan Alderete (bass guitar), Harry Gschoesser (drums), and Jeff Martin (vocals). They were heavily influenced by Judas Priest, and Gilbert's playing was reminiscent of Yngwie Malmsteen, displaying fast-driven solos with extreme-level technique. Gschoesser was replaced by Scott Travis (who would later become Judas Priest's drummer) in 1986, and Bruce Bouillet, one of Gilbert's private students at GIT, was added as a second guitarist after demonstrating an ability to harmonize Gilbert's string skipping sequences. Gilbert gained recognition as one of the world's fastest guitarists due to incredibly technical pieces like \"Technical Difficulties\", \"Frenzy\", \"Scarified\", \"Y.R.O.\" and \"Scit Scat Wah\". Around this time, Gilbert also recorded his first instructional video, \"Intense Rock\", in which he demonstrated a number of his famous techniques and practice regimens in detail. Throughout his career he would go on to release many more instructional videos.\n\nRacer X toured the American southwest, primarily the state of California, and would often sell out thousand-seat venues. Despite their rigorous fan base, the band did not have prospects for a major label deal and Gilbert became increasingly disinterested. In 1987, he was approached by Talas bassist Billy Sheehan, one of his biggest influences, about forming a band that would eventually become Mr. Big.\n\nGilbert left Racer X in 1988, but reformed it after the 1996 breakup of Mr. Big. Paul contacted the members of Racer X, and all agreed to return with the exception of Bruce Bouillet, who could barely play guitar at the time due to a severe bout of carpal tunnel syndrome. In mid-1999, the band recorded the album Technical Difficulties which went gold in Japan. Racer X's new record label requested a follow-up; so, in late 2000, they released \"Superheroes\", mixed by Bouillet.\n\nTo further capitalize on their new-found success in Japan, Universal Japan requested that the band perform for a live-album CD and DVD. On May 25, 2001, the band played their first live performance in thirteen years, to a sold-out crowd, at the world-famous \"The Whisky\" (Whisky a Go Go) in Los Angeles. The resulting CD and DVD were released in 2002 under the title \"Snowball of Doom\".\n\nIn January 2002, in support of Superheroes and Snowball of Doom, Racer X toured Japan and Taiwan. The band performed these shows in their Superheroes costumes. The tour's final show, in Yokohama, was hastily recorded in two tracks on the sound board and later released as Snowball of Doom 2. Later that year, Universal Japan pushed for another Racer X release. In October 2002, all four members of Racer X gathered at Gilbert's house in Las Vegas to record \"Getting Heavier\", which was sold alongside \"Snowball of Doom 2\" in a package deal. Although the album was a successful release in Japan, some fans were disappointed with the lighter tracks, which resembled a Paul Gilbert solo album more than a conventional Racer X album.\n\nRacer X performed at the 2009 NAMM show at the Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, California. Andy Timmons and his band opened the show, followed by a solo set from Paul Gilbert, and finally Racer X. The Racer X lineup consisted of Paul Gilbert, Scott Travis, Jeff Martin and John Alderete.\n\nWhen bass guitarist Billy Sheehan left David Lee Roth's solo band in 1988, he and Gilbert co-founded Mr. Big which included Pat Torpey on drums and Eric Martin on vocals. The band was initially successful in Japan, but achieved international stardom with the 1991 release of their second studio album \"Lean into It\". This album featured the acoustic ballad \"To Be with You\" which received strong play on radio stations and MTV, rising to #1 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nMr. Big broke up in 1996, at which point Gilbert launched his solo career. When Mr. Big reformed soon after, Gilbert, who was already committed to his own record contract, was replaced by Richie Kotzen. Mr. Big disbanded again in 2002, but Gilbert reunited the original members in June 2009 for a worldwide reunion tour. The band recorded a new album with producer Kevin Shirley titled \"What If...\". The album was released in Japan on Dec. 15th, 2010, in Europe on Jan. 21st, 2011 and in the U.S. in Feb. 2011. A tour to support the album kicked off at the Hollywood location of The House of Blues on April 2, 2011 followed by several dates in Japan. In May and June 2011, the tour continued in Taiwan, China, Korea, The Philippines, and Europe.\n\nIn September 2014, Mr. Big released \"...The Stories We Could Tell\", produced by Pat Regan. During the recording of the album, it was revealed that drummer Pat Torpey was dealing with the symptoms of Parkinson's Disease. For the tour that followed, Mr. Big enlisted the help of drummer Matt Starr to provide assistance to Torpey, who remained onstage to play percussion and sing backup vocals for more than half the set. The band is said to be in talks to record and release a new record of original songs in 2017.\n\nIn May 2003 Gilbert performed twice with the project Yellow Matter Custard, a Beatles cover band consisting also of Mike Portnoy (ex-Dream Theater), Neal Morse (ex-Spock's Beard), and Matt Bissonette. In February 2011, Yellow Matter Custard reformed for three shows across America. Kasim Sulton replaced Matt Bissonette for these shows due to other commitments. The band took their name from a Beatles lyric in the song \"I Am the Walrus\": \"Yellow matter custard, dripping from a dead dog's eye\".\n\nGilbert rejoined Portnoy along with Dave LaRue and Daniel Gildenlöw for a Led Zeppelin tribute band called Hammer of the Gods in November 2003. The same year, Gilbert toured Japan with Linus Of Hollywood, TJ Helmerich, and Scot Coogan in support of his solo albums \"Burning Organ\", \"Paul the Young Dude/The Best of Paul Gilbert\", and \"Gilbert Hotel\". In September 2005, he joined Portnoy, Sean Malone, and Jason McMaster in the Rush tribute band Cygnus and the Sea Monsters. In May 2006, he joined Portnoy, Gary Cherone, and Billy Sheehan to form \"Amazing Journey: A Tribute to The Who\", playing three shows. The band (excluding Sheehan) destroyed their equipment after the show in homage.\n\nGilbert was revealed to be the guest guitarist on the 2007 Neal Morse solo album \"Sola Scriptura\". That same year, Gilbert toured with Bruce Bouillet to promote Gilbert's first instrumental album \"Get Out of My Yard\". Joining him on tour was Gilbert's wife Emi on keyboards. Gilbert also joined Joe Satriani and John Petrucci on the 2007 G3 tour. This was the fifth North American G3 run and the 12th tour worldwide since its inception.\n\nOn January 23, 2008 Gilbert released an instrumental album titled \"Silence Followed by a Deafening Roar\". The album was released in Europe on March 31, 2008 and in America on April 8, 2008. This was Gilbert's second instrumental album.\n\nOn October 22, 2008, Gilbert released an album with vocalist Freddie Nelson entitled \"United States\". The collaboration has been described as a cross between Queen and Mr. Big.\n\nGilbert performed with Racer X at the 2009 NAMM show at the Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, California. Andy Timmons and his band opened the show, followed by a solo set from Gilbert, and finally Racer X. This Racer X lineup consisted of Gilbert, Scott Travis, Jeff Martin and John Alderete.\n\nGilbert also joined George Lynch and Richie Kotzen on the Guitar Generation tour.\n\nOn June 30, 2010, Gilbert's new album \"Fuzz Universe\" was released in Japan, with a release in America and Europe soon after. It was Gilbert's third instrumental solo album. A cover version of Johnny Cash's \"Leave That Junk Alone\" was featured as a Japanese bonus track.\n\nOn June 25, 2014 Gilbert released his latest studio album \"Stone Pushing Uphill Man\". Initially only available in Japan, the album was eventually released in the United States on August 12, 2014.\n\nGilbert is currently the Rock Guitar instructor for ArtistWorks, an online music school.\n\nWhen interviewed about his musical and stylistic influences, Paul Gilbert mentions many different artists, including: Randy Rhoads, Kim Mitchell, Eddie Van Halen, Yngwie Malmsteen, Tony Iommi, Alex Lifeson, Jimmy Page, Johnny Ramone, Robin Trower, Ritchie Blackmore, Pat Travers, Gary Moore, Michael Schenker, Judas Priest, Akira Takasaki, Steve Clark, Jimi Hendrix, Kiss, and The Ramones. On many occasions, Gilbert has stated that his uncle Jimi Kidd was vital in heavily fueling Gilbert's childhood interest in playing guitar. Gilbert grew up a great fan of Todd Rundgren, Cheap Trick and The Beatles, artists who frequently influence his songwriting style. He stated on the Space Ship Live DVD that George Harrison is one of his favorite guitar players. \"Guitar World\" magazine declared him one of 50 of the world's fastest guitarists of all time, along with Buckethead, Eddie Van Halen, and Yngwie Malmsteen.\n\nPaul Gilbert composes music in a wide variety of styles, including pop, rock, metal, blues, and funk. However, Gilbert is perhaps best known for his fast playing speed and stylistic versatility. He is noted in particular for his efficient, staccato-like picking technique. He combines fast picking and legato techniques in the same phrase, usually instinctively. When teaching/demonstrating a particular phrase, he has to think about what he is actually doing with his right hand in order to explain it. Despite being famous for his heavy metal work and his rapid right hand ability, Gilbert has since dissociated himself from that style of playing, instead gravitating towards blues and melodic ideas.\n\nPaul Gilbert wrote his own section of the British guitar magazine, \"Total Guitar\", where he normally demonstrated guitar techniques in the magazine and accompanying CD. Even before that, he contributed instructional articles to Guitar Player Magazine in a late 1980s/early 1990s series entitled \"Terrifying Guitar 101\". His period of working with \"Total Guitar\" spanned 31 issues until the November 2006 issue. Gilbert also teaches at the Guitar Institute of Technology (GIT) regularly, and is also an \"honorary dean\" of the GIT division in Japan. Gilbert visits Japan, enjoying the lifestyle like his Shrapnel labelmate Marty Friedman, who still lives in Japan and speaks Japanese fluently. Gilbert is known for his instructional videos, which are often comical in nature. One of his instructional videos includes him pulling a rabbit out of his guitar, putting his guitar in a straitjacket and having presents thrown at him by members of the film crew. Gilbert also was, for a short time, the guitar teacher of Buckethead, Joey Tafolla, Russ Parrish (A.K.A. Satchel from Steel Panther), Michelle Meldrum (The late wife of Europe guitarist John Norum) and Nicole Couch of Phantom Blue. Gilbert now writes a column for \"Premier Guitar\" entitled \"Shred Your Enthusiasm\". In May, 2012 he launched the Online Rock Guitar School with Paul Gilbert as a part of the ArtistWorks Guitar Campus.\n\nIn August 2014, Gilbert participated in the G4 Experience—a week-long guitar camp—with fellow guitarists Joe Satriani, Andy Timmons, and multi-instrumentalist Mike Keneally.\n\nPaul Gilbert primarily uses his Ibanez PGM signature series guitars, identified by the unique painted on \"F-holes\". Although earlier PGM models featured the Ibanez Lo-Pro/Edge double locking tremolo system, many of his guitars (such as his main PGM300) were modified to accommodate a fixed bridge after he stopped using whammy bars in the early 90s, hence the Ibanez PGM301 guitar. Along with his signature guitars, Gilbert often uses his sticker-covered \"Dino\" Ibanez RG750, in addition to a wide variety of Ibanez solidbody and semi-hollow electric guitars. Recently, Gilbert has been using Ibanez \"Fireman\" (a reversed-body Ibanez Iceman with single-coil pickups and an extra cutaway) guitars, which he designed himself. A red version The Ibanez Fireman is to be mass-produced for consumers at a more affordable price than the Ibanez PGMFRM1 (current Paul Gilbert signature Fireman) in Fall 2011. Gilbert now has a short (22.2 inch) scale signature guitar - the Ibanez PGMM31 based on the existing Ibanez Mikro range \n\nRegarding amplifiers, Gilbert used A/DA preamps (A/DA MP-1) and rack effects units early in his career prior to switching to Laney amplifiers. He praised the Laney amps as having \"the best natural distorted sound of any tube amp ever heard\" Since the G3 2007 tour however, Gilbert stated that playing with Joe Satriani and John Petrucci inspired him to take a closer look at his own guitar sound. As a result of his search he found the Marshall Vintage Modern series. He currently uses the Marshall Vintage Modern 2266c combo amps. Gilbert now uses the Marshall JMD:1 (specifically JMD501) amplifier along with his Vintage Modern amplifier. Gilbert uses Jim Dunlop Tortex picks, of which he prefers the orange (.60mm) picks.\nAs far as cables Gilbert uses Bullet Cable 30' Coiled Cables, Bullet Cable SLUG DIY solderless patch cables for his pedalboard and effects.\n\nPaul Gilbert has been known to use the following effects:\n\n\nGilbert also used a modified vintage A/DA Flanger from the 1980s (source: Berlin VIP session interview). You can hear it on tracks like 'Bucket of Rocks', and he also uses it on the 'Snowball of Doom' DVD. Gilbert stated the flanger had been modified. He would set the flanger to self oscillate, which would make the pitch of the resulting signal alternate up and down to create a sound similar to a dive bomb or a pull up on a whammy bar. Unfortunately, during Gilbert's 2008 European tour, his original A/DA Flanger broke. Thankfully, before the pedal broke, he and Ibanez collaborated to make a similar pedal, with both a regular flanger mode and a mode which can be set to create a close approximation of the A/DA pedal's sound, and the pedal has been released as the Ibanez Paul Gilbert AF-2 Airplane Flanger. He also uses the Psilocybe phaser and THC chorus pedals from Home Brew Electronics.\n\nIn the intro to \"Get Out Of My Yard\" Gilbert uses a Boss DD-3 Delay pedal to achieve the altered pitch looped effect at the beginning of the track. This was also demonstrated by Gilbert on the instructional DVD of the same name.\n\nHe is also famous for using a Makita cordless drill with three picks mounted on the end of it, which he used most famously on the Mr. Big track \"Daddy, Brother, Lover, Little Boy\".\n\nIn 2009, Ibanez released a new PGM model, the Ibanez PGM401, which is rather different from most of Gilbert's previous models, with an ash body (most of his previous models were made of basswood, although his PGM800 guitar was made of lightweight ash, a similar but different wood than that used in the PGM401), Trifade Burst finish, Cosmo Black hardware and a regular headstock replacing the reversed one of the previous models. Also, rather than the DiMarzio PAF Pro, Tone Zone and Super Distortion pickups used in his previous models, the PGM401 comes with Gilbert's favorite humbucker model for the past five years, the DiMarzio Air Classic, arranged in a dual humbucker arrangement. Gilbert has stated that he had the bridge pickup moved 1mm closer to the neck, which he said results in a warmer and thicker sound, particularly for the high notes he often uses in soloing. The F-holes are 3% smaller, to make the look more balanced with the pickup mounting rings. A noteworthy difference from other current Ibanez guitar models, is that the PGM401 uses the old late-1980s neckjoint, which is thicker than the current neckjoints on other Ibanez guitars.\n\nIn 2011, Ibanez released a new model for Gilbert the FRM100. The design of the FRM100 was inspired by many hours of playing and performance by Paul Gilbert with the original Ibanez Fireman model featuring a distinctive reverse Iceman body outline.\n\nIn 2014, Gilbert announced his new Ibanez signature model guitar, FRM250MF, at NAMM 2014.\n\nGilbert endorses Direct Sound extreme isolation headphones, using the EX-29 model. Suffering tinnitus after years of loud music in headphones and live, Paul has posted a list of recommendations on how to help prevent tinnitus and noise-induced loss.\n\nGilbert currently resides in Portland, Oregon with his second wife, Emi Gilbert, whom he married in 2005.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See: Racer X Discography\"\n\n\n\"See: Mr. Big Discography\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3178024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3178024", "title": "Petition mill", "text": "Petition mill\n\nA petition mill is a fraud in which the perpetrator poses as a financial advisor, sometimes as a credit counselor or paralegal, filing hastily prepared bankruptcy documents in the name of victims who come to the advisor as clients. The bankruptcy filing is often both incomplete and inappropriate for the victim's condition; and, often, the victim does not even realize that a bankruptcy has been filed.\n\nVictims are people in financial trouble who believe they are becoming clients of a professional operation. The fraudster promises to make the foreclosures, evictions, repossessions, high interest rates on loans, and other debt problems go away. The victim pays a large initial fee for the fraudster's services, and the fraudster usually has the victim sign blank documents. Sometimes the victim is also told to make their usual payments directly to the fraudulent advisor instead of the real creditors, or to transfer their real estate to the fraudster. The payments are stolen by the fraudster instead of being used to pay victims' debts, and real estate is often deeded in fractional shares to other victims unknowingly under bankruptcy, complicating ownership to make foreclosures even more difficult by having multiple (fraudulent) bankruptcies involved in the property.\n\nIn other petition mill schemes, the fraudster simply creates summary bankruptcy filings for the victim. The victim is then told to file \"pro se\" in court and deny that anyone helped prepare the documents.\n\nAccording to the \"United States Trustee Manual\", volume 5, chapter 5, the following are warning signs of a petition mill scheme:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45691147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45691147", "title": "Riverton City, Jamaica", "text": "Riverton City, Jamaica\n\nRiverton City, St Andrew, Jamaica is a landfill site on the outskirts of Kingston.\n\nIn March 2015 it was the site of a major fire, starting on 11 March. The poor air quality brought a halt to activities in Kingston, as businesses, schools and other services were forced to close down early. The Medical Association of Jamaica called on the Cabinet to tackle the public health risks, saying that at least 600 people had attended public health facilities as a result of smoke inhalation.\n"}
{"id": "39281139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39281139", "title": "Robert J. Flynn", "text": "Robert J. Flynn\n\nRobert James Flynn (September 15, 1937 – May 15, 2014) was a Commander and Naval Flight Officer bombardier/navigator in the United States Navy. As a Lieutenant, he was captured by the Chinese in August 1967 after the A-6 Intruder he was flying in on a mission over North Vietnam was shot down. Flynn and his pilot, along with another A-6 Intruder crew, were evading North Vietnamese jets following their mission over Hanoi when they strayed over the border into Chinese air space. Downed just over the Chinese border, Flynn was apprehended by the Chinese and held in China as a Prisoner of War where he was tortured and held almost exclusively in solitary confinement for five and a half years.\n\nFlynn was born in La Crosse, Wisconsin and was raised in Houston, Minnesota, he attended the University of Minnesota.\n\nOn July 6, 1958, he joined the United States navy as a cadet. On June 20, 1960, he was designated as a Naval Flight Officer. He completed A-3D training with VAH-123 at NAS Whidbey Island from June 1960 to January 1961 he served as an A-3D navigator with VAH-8 from January 1961 to June 1963. From June 1963 to March 1966 he served as an A-6A Intruder instructor bombardier/navigator with VA-85 at NAS Oceana. VA-85 deployed on from March to August 1966. He transferred to VA-196 at NAS Whidbey Island in August 1966. In May 1967 VA-196 was deployed on the for deployment to Vietnam.\n\nOn 21 August 1967 four A-6A Intruders of VA-196 were launched from USS \"Constellation\" for an attack on the Duc Noi railyard in northern Hanoi. Lieutenant Commander Jimmy L. Buckley (pilot) and Lieutenant Flynn (bombardier/navigator) were the crew of A-6A [BuNo 152625/NK 400] which was hit by enemy fire on approach to the target area but continued with their attack. Over the target area the flight encountered heavy anti-aircraft fire and SAMs, A-6A [BuNo 152638/NK 410] was hit by enemy fire and both crewmen, Lieutenant Commander William M. Hardman and Captain Leo T. Profilet, ejected successfully but were captured. The remaining three A-6s left the target area in loose formation and were forced to head north to avoid bad weather, one of the aircraft sighted MiGs and two of the A-6s were tracked heading towards the Chinese border with two Shenyang J-6 fighters in pursuit. A-6A [BuNo 152627/NK 402] was shot down north of the Chinese border and both crewmen, Lieutenant j.g Forrest Trembley (pilot) and Lieutenant j.g. Dain Scott (bombardier/navigator) were killed. A-6A '400' was also shot down, Lieutenant Commander Buckley was killed, while Lieutenant Flynn ejected successfully but was also captured. Later that day Chinese government radio confirmed that they had shot down two aircraft inside Chinese territory and that one crewman had been captured. Lieutenant Flynn believed that the Chinese fighters had attacked their flight over North Vietnamese territory, but US radar showed that the two A-6s were at least inside Chinese territory when they were shot down.\n\nFlynn was taken to Peking where he was held in solitary confinement for the next five and a half years.He was constantly tortured and was demanded to sign a confession that stated that he was a criminal who had violated Chinese airpsace. Flynn refused to cooperate.\n\nDue to improving US-China relations following President Richard Nixon's historic 1972 visit to China, Lieutenant Flynn was released on 15 March 1973, crossing the land border into British Hong Kong.\n\nFlynn returned to US Navy duty as an A-6 bombardier/navigator, serving as an A-6 instructor bombardier/navigator with VA-128 at NAS Whidbey Island from November 1973 until February 1975. He served as a bombardier/navigator with VA-165 from February 1975 until June 1976 when he completed his degree at the University of Washington. He served as executive officer and then commanded NFO Training Squadron 86 at Naval Air Station Pensacola from August 1977 to October 1980. From October 1980 to November 1981 he served as Executive Officer of Fleet Combat Training Center. His final assignment was as Director of Aviation Warfare Training with Chief of Naval Education and Training at NAS Pensacola from November 1981 until his retirement with the rank of Commander in November 1985. He was awarded the Legion of Merit, Distinguished Flying Cross, Bronze Star with \"V\" and two gold stars and the Prisoner of War Medal. \n\nFlynn died of a heart attack at the age of 76 on May 15, 2014 in Gulf Breeze, Florida, (resided in Pensacola, Florida).\n\n"}
{"id": "916792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916792", "title": "Robert and Elizabeth", "text": "Robert and Elizabeth\n\nRobert and Elizabeth is a musical with music by Ron Grainer and book and lyrics by Ronald Millar. The story is based on an unproduced musical titled \"The Third Kiss\" by Judge Fred G. Moritt, which in turn was adapted from the play \"The Barretts of Wimpole Street\" by Rudolph Besier. It is an operetta-style musical which tells the story of the romance and elopement of poets Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett. The original 1964 London production was a success, starring Sir John Clements as Barrett, June Bronhill as Elizabeth and Keith Michell as Robert. Several revivals have followed.\n\n\nThe original West End production opened at the Lyric Theatre in London on 20 October 1964 and ran for 948 performances. The cast was as follows:\n\nThe original Australian production, in which June Bronhill reprised her London role, opened at the Princess Theatre, Melbourne on 21 May 1966. The cast also starred English actor Denis Quilley as Robert, Frank Thring as Edward, and included Madeleine Orr in a smaller role. The show ran for six months in Melbourne before moving to Sydney, where it ran for four weeks.\n\nThe musical was produced at the Yvonne Arnaud Theatre in Guildford, England, starring Jeremy Brett and Sally Ann Howes from 22 December 1976 to 29 January 1977. Another production ran at the Paper Mill Playhouse, Millburn, New Jersey, from November through December 1982, with Marc Jacoby as Robert and Leigh Beery as Elizabeth.\n\nIt was staged in the 1987 Chichester Festival, featuring Mark Wynter. A recording of the production was released by First Night Records (ASIN: B000024TK6). The musical then played at the Forum Theater in Chicago, Illinois in November 1974, with Steven Arlen as Robert. \n\nThe show was prevented from being produced on Broadway due to a copyright disagreement with the estate of Rudolph Besier, author of \"The Barretts of Wimpole Street\", on which the story was partly based.\n\n"}
{"id": "238573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238573", "title": "Royal Marriages Act 1772", "text": "Royal Marriages Act 1772\n\nThe Royal Marriages Act 1772 was an act of the Parliament of Great Britain, which prescribed the conditions under which members of the British Royal Family could contract a valid marriage, in order to guard against marriages that could diminish the status of the royal house. The right of veto vested in the sovereign by this act provoked severe adverse criticism at the time of its passage. It was repealed as a result of the 2011 Perth Agreement, which came into force on 26 March 2015. Under the Succession to the Crown Act 2013, the first six people in the line of succession (currently Prince Charles, Prince William, Prince George, Princess Charlotte, Prince Louis and Prince Harry) need permission to marry if they and their descendants are to remain in the line of succession.\n\nThe Act said that no descendant of King George II, male or female, other than the issue of princesses who had married or might thereafter marry \"into foreign families\", could marry without the consent of the reigning monarch, \"signified under the great seal and declared in council\". That consent was to be set out in the licence and in the register of the marriage, and entered in the books of the Privy Council. Any marriage contracted without the consent of the monarch was to be null and void.\n\nHowever, any member of the Royal Family over the age of 25 who had been refused the sovereign's consent could marry one year after giving notice to the Privy Council of their intention so to marry, unless both houses of Parliament expressly declared their disapproval. There is, however, no instance in which the sovereign's formal consent in Council was refused.\n\nThe Act further made it a crime to perform or participate in an illegal marriage of any member of the Royal Family. This provision was repealed by the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\nThe Act was proposed by George III as a direct result of the marriage of his brother, Prince Henry, Duke of Cumberland and Strathearn, who in 1771 had married the commoner Anne Horton, the daughter of Simon Luttrell and the widow of Christopher Horton. Royal Assent was given to the Act on 1 April 1772, and it was only on 13 September following that the King learned that another brother, Prince William Henry, Duke of Gloucester and Edinburgh, had in 1766 secretly married Maria, the illegitimate daughter of Sir Edward Walpole and the widow of the 2nd Earl Waldegrave. Both alliances were considered highly unsuitable by the King, who \"saw himself as having been forced to marry for purely dynastic reasons\".\n\n\nThe Act rendered void any marriage wherever contracted or solemnised in contravention of it. A member of the royal family who contracted a marriage that violated the Act did \"not\" thereby lose his or her place in the line of succession, but the offspring of such a union were made illegitimate by the voiding of the marriage and thus lost any right to succeed.\n\nThe Act applied to Catholics, even though they are ineligible to succeed to the throne. It did not apply to descendants of Sophia of Hanover who are not also descendants of George II, even though they are still eligible to succeed to the throne.\n\nIt had been claimed that the marriage of Prince Augustus had been legal in Ireland and Hanover, but the Committee of Privileges of the House of Lords ruled (in the Sussex Peerage Case, 9 July 1844) that the Act incapacitated the descendants of George II from contracting a legal marriage without the consent of the Crown, either within the British dominions or elsewhere.\n\nThe effects of the law were not always foreseen. An example is seen in the royal House of Hanover, which descends from Ernest Augustus, Duke of Cumberland, a younger son of King George III, who inherited the crown of Hanover according to its semi-Salic order of succession when the British crown went to his niece, Queen Victoria. Although his descendants lost their royal crown in 1866, and their British titles in 1919, as male-line descendants of George II they continued to seek permission for their marriages from the British monarch. Thus, on 11 January 1999, Elizabeth II issued the following Declaration in Council: \"My Lords, I do hereby declare My Consent to a Contract of Matrimony between His Royal Highness Prince Ernst August Albert of Hanover, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg and Her Serene Highness Princess Caroline Louise Marguerite of Monaco...\". Without this consent, the marriage would have been void in Britain, where the groom's family continues to own substantial property and retains the right to petition for resumption of the dukedom of Cumberland and Teviotdale, suspended since World War I. (However, as Ernst August married a Roman Catholic, he lost his place in the succession to the British throne under a different piece of legislation, the Act of Settlement 1701.)\n\nAll European monarchies, and many non-European realms, have laws or traditions requiring prior approval of the monarch for members of the reigning dynasty to marry. But Britain's was unusual because it was never modified between its original enactment and its repeal 243 years later, so that its ambit grew rather wide, affecting not only Britain's immediate Royal Family, but more distant relatives of the monarch.\n\nIn the 1950s, Charles d'Olivier Farran, Lecturer in Constitutional Law at Liverpool University, theorised that the Act could no longer apply to anyone living, because all the members of the immediate royal family were descended from British princesses who had married into foreign families. The loophole is due to the Act's wording, whereby if a person is, through one line, a descendant of George II subject to the Act's restriction, but is \"also\", separately through another line, a descendant of a British princess married into a foreign family, the exemption for the latter reads as if it trumps the former.\n\nMany of George II's descendants in female lines have married back into the British royal family. In particular, the Queen and other members of the House of Windsor descend (through Queen Alexandra) from two daughters of George II — (Mary, Landgravine of Hesse and Louise, Queen of Denmark) — who married foreign rulers (respectively Frederick II, Landgrave of Hesse-Kassel, and King Frederick V of Denmark), and through Queen Mary from a third (Anne, Princess of Orange, consort of William IV, Prince of Orange). Queen Mary herself was a product of such a marriage; her parents were Princess Mary Adelaide of Cambridge, a granddaughter of George III and Francis, Duke of Teck, a minor German prince of the House of Württemberg. Moreover, The Prince of Wales, his issue, siblings, and their issue descend from yet another such marriage, that of The Princess Alice, a daughter of Queen Victoria, to Louis IV, Grand Duke of Hesse, through their great-grandson Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.\n\nThis so-called \"Farran exemption\" met with wide publicity, but arguments against it were put forward by Clive Parry, Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge, and Farran's interpretation has since been ignored. Consent to marriages in the Royal Family (including the distantly related House of Hanover) continued to be sought and granted as if none of the agnatic descendants of George II were also his cognatic descendants.\n\nParry argued that the \"Farran exemption\" theory was complicated by the fact that all the Protestant descendants of the Electress Sophia of Hanover, ancestress of the United Kingdom's monarchs since 1714, had been entitled to British citizenship under the Sophia Naturalization Act 1705 (if born prior to 1949, when the act was repealed). Thus, some marriages of British princesses to continental monarchs and princes were not, in law, marriages to foreigners. For example, the 1947 marriage of Princess Elizabeth to Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, by birth a Greek and Danish prince but descended from the Electress Sophia, was a marriage to a British subject even if he had not been previously naturalised in Britain. This would also mean theoretically, for example, that the present royal family of Norway is bound by the Act, for the marriage of The Princess Maud, a daughter of King Edward VII, to the future King Haakon VII of Norway, was a marriage to a \"British subject\", since Haakon descended from the Electress Sophia.\n\nIn 1936 the statute His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936 specifically excluded Edward VIII from the provisions of this Act upon his abdication, allowing him to marry the divorcee, Wallis Simpson. The wording of the statute also excluded any issue of the marriage both from being subject to the Act, and from the succession to the throne; no marriages or succession rights were ultimately affected by this language, as the Duke and Duchess of Windsor had no children.\n\nIn October 2011 David Cameron wrote to the leaders of the other Commonwealth realms proposing that the act be limited to the first six people in line to the throne. The leaders approved the proposed change at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting held in Perth, Western Australia.\n\nThe legislation in a number of Commonwealth realms repeals the Royal Marriages Act 1772 in its entirety. It was, in the United Kingdom, replaced by the Succession to the Crown Act 2013, which stipulates a requirement for the first six people in the line of succession to obtain the sovereign's consent before marrying in order to remain eligible. Article 3(5) of the new act also provides that, except for succession purposes, any marriage that would have been void under the original act \"is to be treated as never having been void\" if it did not involve any of the first six people in the line of succession at the time of the marriage; royal consent was never sought or denied; \"in all the circumstances it was reasonable for the person concerned not to have been aware at the time of the marriage that the Act applied to it\"; and no one has acted on the basis that the marriage is void. New Zealand's Royal Succession Act 2013 repealed the Royal Marriages Act and provided for royal consent for the first six people in the line of succession to be granted by the monarch in right of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Regency Act 1830, which provided for a regency in the event that Queen Victoria inherited the throne before she was eighteen, made it illegal for her to marry without the regent's consent. Her spouse and anyone involved in arranging or conducting the marriage without such consent would be guilty of high treason. This was more serious than the offence created by the Act of 1772, which was equivalent to praemunire. However, the Act never came into force, as Victoria was eighteen when she became queen.\n\nConsents under the Act were entered in the Books of the Privy Council but have not been published. In 1857 it became customary to publish them in the \"London Gazette\" and notices appear of consents given in Council at Courts held on the following dates. Not all consents, however, were noted there and gaps in the list have been filled by reference to the Warrants for Royal Marriages in the Home Office papers (series HO 124) in The National Archives:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5193024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5193024", "title": "SaferNet", "text": "SaferNet\n\nSaferNet is a Brazilian non-governmental organization that combats Internet crime in partnership with the Federal Public Ministry. It facilitates anonymous reporting and provides information and training about Internet safety and security.\n\nSafernet facilitates anonymous reporting of crimes, with extra consideration for preventing and investigating child pornography, identity theft and various hate crimes. It also works with the government to improve legislation for Internet-related crimes. Safernet also educates, trains, and mobilizes the public on issues relating to their rights and safety.\n\nIn 2006, Safernet and the Federal Public Ministry brought a suit against Google's Brazilian business unit alleging that Google was not policing Orkut pages enough to prevent pornography and hate crimes. Complying with the judge's ruling, Google provided the requested user information to the Brazilian authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "4128205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4128205", "title": "Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts", "text": "Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts\n\nSociété Nationale des Beaux-Arts (SNBA) was the term under which two groups of French artists united, the first for some exhibitions in the early 1860s, the second since 1890 for annual exhibitions.\n\nEstablished in 1862, the \"Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts\" was first chaired by the writer Théophile Gautier, with the painter Aimé Millet as deputy chairman. The committee was composed with the painters Eugène Delacroix, Carrier-Belleuse, Puvis de Chavannes and among the exhibitors were Léon Bonnat, Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux, Charles-François Daubigny, Gustave Doré, Manet. In 1864, just after the death of Delacroix, the society organized a retrospective exhibition of 248 paintings and lithographs of this famous painter and step-uncle of the emperor - and ceased to mount further exhibitions.\n\nThe 19th century in French art is characterised by a continuous struggle between traditionally educated artists supported by official politics, and a growing rate of artists who preferred to work individually and at their own riscs. Reviewing the historical situation is difficult, even a century later. But evidently opponents to the official politics gained ground after the fall of the 2nd Empire, and were instrumental to redirect French cultural politics to liberal positions. Thus, the splitting-off of the \"Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts\" in 1890 can be considered as the first \"Secessionist\" manifestation, at all.\n\nIn 1890, the \"Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts\" was re-vitalised under the rule of Puvis de Chavannes, Ernest Meissonier, Carolus-Duran, Bracquemond and Carrier-Belleuse, and since then its annual exhibition was reviewed as the \"Salon de Champ-de-Mars\", traditionally opening a fortnight later than the official \"Salon de Champs-Élysées\", organised by the Société des artistes français.\n\nSuzanne Valadon became the first female painter to be admitted to the Société in 1894.\n\nAfter World War I, in 1926, the \"Puvis de Chavannes\" prize was created consisting in a retrospective exhibition of the main works of the prizewinning artists, in Paris. During the twentieth century, this exhibition was located at the Grand Palais or the Musée d'Art Moderne.\n\nMost famous awarded painters: 1941: Wilhem Van Hasselt, 1944: Jean Gabriel Domergue, 1952: Tristan Klingsor, 1955: Georges Delplanque, 1957: Albert Decaris, 1958: Jean Picard Le Doux, 1963: Maurice Boitel, 1966: Pierre Gaillardot, 1968: Pierre-Henry, 1969:Louis Vuillermoz, 1970: Daniel du Janerand, 1971: Jean-Pierre Alaux; 1975: Jean Monneret, 1987: André Hambourg.\n\nDuring the last decades of the 20th century, after \"living treasure\" Takanori Oguiss, and during the rule of chairman François Baboulet, some of Japanese artists could exhibit their paintings as guests of the SNBA: Takaaki Matsuda, Katsufumi Toyota, Kazuko Kobayashi, Hideo Hando, Yoko Tsuishi and Noboru Sotoyama.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14536713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14536713", "title": "Soulbury Commission", "text": "Soulbury Commission\n\nThe Soulbury Commission (Sinhala: සෝල්බරි කොමිෂන් සභාව \"Solbari Komishan Sabhawa\"), announced in 1944 was, like its predecessor, the Donoughmore Commission, a prime instrument of constitutional reform in British Ceylon. The immediate basis for the appointment of a commission for constitutional reforms was the 1944 draft constitution of the Board of Ministers, headed by D.S Senanayake. This commission ushered in Dominion status and Independence to Sri Lanka in 1948. Its constitutional recommendations were largely those of the 1944 Board of Ministers' draft, a document reflecting the influence of Senanayake and his main advisor, Sir Ivor Jennings Chapter 33).\n\nThe struggle for Independence in Ceylon had been fought on \"constitutionalist\" lines rather than on the strongly confrontational approach that had developed in British India. Only the Marxists, a tiny minority, had attempted to create confrontational conditions which they believed to be a harbinger of the impending proletarian revolution against Imperialism. D. S. Senanayake was the leader of the \"constitutionalist\" wing of the Sri Lankan independence movement. He began to develop a \"Ceylonese\" vision for Sri Lanka, i.e., co-operation of all the ethnic and religious groups. To this end he masterminded the appointment of Arunachalam Mahadeva, a respected Tamil politician as the minister of Home affaires(, p560). Senanayake began to formulate a draft constitution following the conditions laid down by the Colonial Secretary of State in 1943. There were three aspects to the effort. The first was the abandonment of the Donoughmore Constitution and the formulation of a Westminster Model. The second was that the Governor's reserve powers and other controls of the Imperial government would be abandoned and there would be full responsibility in internal civil matters. However, the crown's reserve powers would be retained especially in regard to limitations set upon the Ceylonese legislature regarding religious and ethnic minorities. The Crown would also retain defence and external affairs. The third was the ratification of the new constitution by a 3/4 majority in the State Council of Ceylon.\n\nSenanayake and his advisors worked with remarkable speed by 1944, and a draft was made ready for submission to Whitehall. Many groups who opposed the move towards independence, notably British business groups, certain church dignitaries criticized the rapid moves in what they termed \"lack of consultation\". The 1943 Colonial Secretary's discussions envisaged that the draft constitution would be examined by a \"suitable commission or conference\", after the victory over the Axis powers. However, Senanayake pressed for an immediate consideration of their proposals. There was great reluctance and no sense of urgency on the part of the Colonial office. However, Senanayake, Oliver Goonetilleke and others had developed impressive contacts with Lord Mountbatten who, as Supreme Allied Commander of South-East Asia had worked from Colombo. A telegram from Lord Mountbatten is believed have been crucial in over-riding the foot-dragging of the Colonial office and conceding to Senanayake's demands. The appointment of a commission was made on July 5, 1944.\n\nAlthough the appointment of a commission without waiting for the end of the War was a great concession, the announcement of the Commission headed by Lord Soulbury was greeted with dismay by Senanayake and others. Their disappointment was due to the widening of the scope of the commission beyond what was set out by the Colonial Secretary in 1943, to also consult with \"various interests, including the minority communities concerned with the subject of constitutional reforms in Ceylon\". Senanayake was a man who preferred behind-the-curtain negotiations instead of confrontational public hearings. He felt that such consultations would simply become very divisive. In fact, the politics of the 1930s had become very communal or racist, with the first Sinhala-Tamil riot occurring in 1939, after an inflammatory speech by G. G. Ponnambalam, a leading Tamil politician. Senanayake and the Board of Ministers resorted to an official boycott of the commission as an expression of their disapproval of the widening of the scope of the commission. However, this merely meant that they did not appear before the commission in public or \"official\" sittings. Senanayake and his associates held private meetings where the commissioners were the guests of honour. In fact, Oliver Goonetilleke became an \"unofficial secretary\" to the commission and significantly influenced it. This enabled Senanayake and his advisors to present their views without getting into confrontational politics with the Tamil Congress, led by G. G. Ponnambalam who was allowed to dominate many of the official hearings.\n\nTamil politics during the time of the Donoughmore Commission was dominated by casteism, with P. Ramanathan as its chief exponent. Tamils, only about 15% of the population, had a strong, dominant position in the early legislatures of the country. The introduction of Universal Franchise in 1931 completely changed the character of Ceylonese politics, where Tamil politicians found it very difficult to accept that they would become a minority. The eminent Peradeniya historian, Prof. K. M.de Silva attributes this to the collapse of the Ceylon National Congress. According to Dr. Jane Russell, Tamils also found it very irksome that the Sinhalese possessed a written history known as the Mahavamsa extending back to some 25 centuries , whereas the Tamils were seen as later migrants or invading settlers. This, as well as other factors led to a development of Tamil nationalism and communal feeling, displacing casteism to a secondary place in the nation's politics. Communal politics, which involved attacks on the Mahavamsa, suspicious examination of appointments to public office, opening of colonisation schemes etc., for communal bias became common place. G. G. Ponnambalam wrested control of Tamil politics from the Arunachalam-family elitist Colombo Tamil group and followed a stridently communal political program. This was matched by similar nationalist politics, led by S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike, the Sinhalese counterpart of Ponnambalam.\n\nThe Tamil Congress, led by Ponnambalam, had evolved the policy of 50-50, i.e., allocation of an equal number of seats in the legislature to the Tamils and the Sinhalese, over-riding the natural Universal Franchise representation where the 15% Tamils, 75% Sinhalese , would lead to only about 15 seats in a chamber with 100 representatives,( p308). Ponnambalam, an English-educated Catholic lawyer who was elitist and abrasive by temperament justified this by pointing out that there were roughly equal numbers of English educated (i.e., upper caste) Sinhalese and Tamils, and that this would also guarantee a place of political parity for the Tamils. Thus Ponnambalam proposed that the legislature should be: \"based on the balanced scheme of representation that would avoid the danger of concentration of power in one community, but would ensure its equitable distribution among all communities and the people as a whole\"(, p. 92). Ponnambalam also proposed further constitutional mechanisms to \"safeguard minority rights\".\n\nPonnambalam's very artificial and unusual schemes for securing the continued parity of status of Tamils, completely contrary to the \"one man-one vote\" concept thoroughly accepted in European liberalism, met with severe disapprobation by the commissioners. They stated that \"any attempt by artificial means to convert a majority into a minority is not only inequitable, but doomed to failure\". Ponnambalam's proposals were considered to be a means of conferring a minority supremacy amounting to virtual majority rule, and \"denial of the democratic principle\"( p. 311). The \"Hindu organ\", an influential newspaper of the time, condemned it as something that \"can only be maintained against the united opposition of the Sinhalese by British bayonets\".\n\nThe submissions in front of the Soulbury commission also included specific grievances of the Ceylon Tamils regarding claimed unfair discrimination against their community. These included claims of discrimination in appointments to the Public Service, claims of settlement policies in newly opened colonisation schemes which favour the Sinhalese, the Buddhist Temporalities act of 1931, the Anuradhapura Preservation Ordinance of 1931, the question of ports in the Northern peninsula, a claimed discriminatory bias in education, medical services etc., favouring the Sinhalese.\n\nHowever, the commission concluded that \"the evidence submitted to us provides no substantial indication of a general policy on the part of the Government of Ceylon of discrimination against minority communities\".\n\nThe extensive and lengthy orations of Ponnambalam were rewarded by the commissioners by introducing a provision for multi-member constituencies in suitable areas, allowing for greater representation for ethnic minorities like Tamils, Muslims and other groups. The commissioners also recommended inclusion of provisions relating to communal discrimination. The first was that \"the Parliament of Ceylon shall not make any law rendering persons of any community or religion liable to disabilities or restrictions to which persons of other communities are not made liable, ...\". Another provision was that any bill which evoked \"serious opposition by any racial or religious community and which, in the opinion of the Governor-General is likely to involve oppression or serious injustice to any community must be reserved by the Governor-General\"( p. 101).\n\nThe low-country Sinhalese and the Kandyans had largely co-operated in their politics during the 1930s. Bandaranaike's marriage to the Ratwatte family, influential in Kandyan circles, had also helped to bridge the gap between the two groups. However, the presence of a commission gave the Kandyan groups a chance to claim some powers for themselves, just as the Tamil Congress was largely arguing to secure Tamil interests. The Kandyans proposed a Federal scheme where the Up-country region, the Low-country, and the North would be three federal states. Their suggestions were rejected by the commissioners who found no merit in the federal proposals.\n\nThe British historian Jane Russell argues that the official boycott of the Soulbury Commission by the Board of Ministers led by Senanayake was a \"statesman-like action, if not a diplomatic coup. The fact that the more ... communal-minded (politicians) held aloof ... , enabled the minorities to have the floor unchallenged. This manoeuvre avoided a repetition of the situation ... of the Donoughmore Commission where there had been a spiraling of communal demands as accusations and denunciations (which) provoked counter-accusations, ... until communal tension reached ... in outbreaks of violence. (sic) It enabled G. G. Ponnambalam to strut about the political arena for a few months unimpeded\", while the Board of Ministers maintained a quiet dignity while doing behind-the-curtain politics. Thus the visit of the Soulbury Commission and the final Soulbury Report did much to reconcile the minority communities with the Sinhalese leadership under D. S. Senanayake. The voting in the third reading (in March) of the \"Free Lanka\" bill of January 1945, was supported by all the Muslim members, and by T. G. Rajakulendran, S. P. Vytilingam, and V. Nalliah. Some of the other minority members who did not want to openly support the bill took care to be absent or abstain. Finally, the debate and the vote of acceptance on the eighth and ninth of September 1945 was the most significant indication of general reconciliation among the ethnic and regional groups. Far exceeding the 3/4 majority required by the Soulbury Commission, Senanayake had 51 votes in favour and only three votes against the adoption of the constitution. The vote was \"in many ways a vote of confidence by all communities in ... Senanayake\", and the minorities were as anxious as the majority for self-government( p 317, also, p. 6).\n\nSenanayake's speech in proposing the motion of acceptance made reference to the minorities and said \"throughout this period the Ministers had in view one objective only, the attainment of maximum freedom. Accusations of Sinhalese domination have been bandied about. We can afford to ignore them for it must be plain to every one that what we sought was not Sinhalese domination, but Ceylonese domination. We devised a scheme that gave heavy weight to the minorities; we deliberately protected them against discriminatory legislation. We vested important powers in the Governor-General ... We decided upon an Independent Public Service Commission so as to give assurance that there should be no communalism in the Public Srvice.(sic) I do not normally speak as a Sinhalese, and I do not think that the Leader of this Council ought to think of himself as a Sinhalese representative, but for once I should like to speak as a Sinhalese and assert with all the force at my command that the interests of one community are the interests of all. We are one of another, what ever race or creed.\"\n\nWhen the war ended, D. S. Senanayake was ready, on a mission to Whitehall to push for full dominion status instead of the status discussed in the 1943 Colonial secretary's report. During August–September 1945 Senanayake argued that the limits on Ceylon's external sovereignty (defence and external affairs), adhered to by the Soulbury report were unworkable and unnecessary. Senanayake suggested the confirmation of Dominion status by an Order in Council, and delivered a draft to G. H. Hall, the new Secretary to the Colonies. While the new labour government was prepared to accept the Soulbury report, it was firmly opposed to granting Dominion Status. The British were willing to consider Dominion status six years after the Soulbury constitution, say in 1953-54, although this was not revealed to the Ceylonese politicians. In 1947, with the general election to the new parliament scheduled for August–September 1947, Senanayake once again pressed Whitehall for a more precise date for Dominion Status. Arthur Creeh-Jones, successor to Hall in the Colonial office was much more receptive to Senanayake's request. Independence for India was announced by the Labour cabinet on 20 February 1947. Oliver Goonatilleke, who was handling the negotiations in Whitehall on behalf of Senanayake, argued that the immediate granting of Dominion Status was urgently necessary since the moderates were under increasing pressure from left-wing and nationalist extremist groups. The British government made the official announcement on 18 June 1947 that the Island would receive \"fully responsible status within the British Commonwealth of Nations\".\n\nG. G. Ponnambalam had in the 1930s begun to declare that he is a \"proud Dravidian\" and had rejected the \"Ceylonese Concept\" of Senanayake and others at the time. At the end of the Soulbury submissions, he decided to moderate his politics, and publicly advocated \"responsive cooperation\" with the Sinhalese leaders. He joined the cabinet of D. S. Senanayake who became the first prime minister of independent Ceylon in 1948. S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike, the Sinhalese Nationalist counterpart of Ponnambalam had also joined the cabinet, leaving the opposition to the Marxists and small nationalist groups.\n\nAn important piece of legislation, enacted in 1948, and modified in 1949, was the Indian Citizenship act, which limited citizenship to Indian workers who had at least 10 years of residence in the country This was similar to the requirement which was then current in most European countries. Although Senanayake had consistently supported their citizenship under less strict conditions as early as 1923, and as late as 1941 in the Indo-Ceylon talks, this change of attitude was a reaction to the increasing agitation of the Marxist trade-unionists whose power was misjudged by the colonial administration as well as most politicians of that era. Thus Senanayake was supported by many Tamil leaders including Ponnambalam, and constitutionalists like Dr. Ivor Jennings, in regard to the Indian citizenship act. The Soulbury commission had also recommended a \"status quo\" with regard to Indian workers. However, this was criticized by Senator Natesan, S. J. V. Chelvanayagam and followers who represented the emerging Tamil-nationalist fringe.\n\nAlthough Ponnambalam moderated his politics and moved to the center, there was thus no shortage of ultra-nationalists or militant groups who attacked Senanayake's synthesis of all moderate groups within his United National Party of Ceylon. Because the \"constitutionalist\" approach of Senanayake and others led to independence without the fire and violence of the Indian program, many contended that the \"independence\" was illusory. Fears were expressed, mainly by the Marxists, of secret clauses and a hidden treaty. Events were to prove that these claims were false(, p. 569).\n\nAn ultra-nationalist Tamil movement which had previously grouped as the league of Tamil Federations denounced Ponnambalam and other Tamils as \"traitors\" and formed the Ilankai Thamil Arasu Kachchi(ITAK), or the Tamil Government Party. This party would present a deeply separatist agenda in its Tamil-language publications , but presented a more moderate picture in its English language presentations, where it was known as the Federal Party. The Federal party and the Marxist parties began to attack the Senanayake government, but at that time their support in the country was minimal. The greatest threat to Senanayake's policies came when Bandaranaike left the Senanayake cabinet and formed the Sinhala nationalist Sri Lanka Freedom Party (Sri Lanka Nidahas Pakshaya)(SLFP). Senanayake died in a horse riding accident in 1952, and after that the low-key, behind-the-curtain approach of Senanayake was displaced by direct communal agitation for lingusitic and other demands of the two communities, led by the SLFP and the ITAK. The \"satyagraha\" sit-ins of the ITAK developed into violent confrontations which, over time lead to the emergence of the Tamil United Liberation Front TULF which in 1976 declared, in the city of Vaddukkoddei , a policy of a separate state for the Tamils. This was an idea which had been part of the thinking of the ITAK since its inception, although it did not come to the fore-front till 1976.\n"}
{"id": "8514003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8514003", "title": "St Piran's Day", "text": "St Piran's Day\n\nSt Piran's Day () is the county day of Cornwall, held on 5 March every year. The day is named after one of the patron saints of Cornwall, Saint Piran, who is also the patron saint of tin miners.\n\nSt Piran's Day started as one of the many tinners' holidays observed by the tin miners of Cornwall. Other miners' holidays of a similar nature include Picrous Day and Chewidden Thursday. The miners of Breage and Germoe observed St Piran's feast day as that of their patron saint until at least 1764.\n\n\"St. Piran's Day was said to be a favourite with the tinners who having a tradition that some secrets regarding the manufacture of tin were communicated to their ancestors by that saint, they leave the manufacture to shift for itself for that day, and keep it as a holiday.\" There is little description of specific traditions associated with this day apart from the consumption of large amounts of alcohol and food during 'Perrantide', the week leading up to 5 March. The day following the St Piran's Day was known by many as 'Mazey Day', a term which has now been adopted by the revived Golowan festival in Penzance. The phrase 'drunk as a perraner' was used in 19th century Cornwall to describe people who had consumed large quantities of alcohol.\n\nThe modern observance of St Piran's day as a national symbol of the people of Cornwall started in the late 19th and early 20th century when Celtic Revivalists sought to provide the people of Cornwall with a national day similar to those observed in other nations. Since the 1950s, the celebration has become increasingly observed and since the start of the 21st century almost every Cornish community holds some sort of celebration to mark the event. Saint Piran's Flag is also seen flying throughout Cornwall on this day.\n\nParades and celebrations take place in a number of towns and cities including:\n\nIn 2006 Cornish MP Dan Rogerson asked the government to make 5 March a public holiday in Cornwall to recognise St Piran's Day celebrations. Some council workers in Bodmin were granted the holiday in 2006, and from 2009 Penzance Town Council offered its employees a St Piran's Day Holiday following a campaign by the Celtic League. A total of nine town and city councils across Cornwall have given their staff the day off.\n\nThere have been other calls and petitions for a Cornish public holiday on 5 March. It has been suggested that a move from the May Day Bank Holiday to a St Piran's Day Bank Holiday in Cornwall would be worth £20–35 million to the Cornish economy.\n\nIn December 2011 Cornwall Council voted in favour of asking the government to make St Piran's Day a bank holiday in Cornwall, should they decide to move the May Day holiday.\n\nA petition for a county wide day off at the Cornwall council website, closed with only 363 signatures, and fell far short of the 50,000 signatures required.\n\nTowns and cities that give their staff an annual day off work for St Piran's Day:\n\nSchools that give parents the option of taking their children out of school for the day:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20770109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20770109", "title": "Stoke Goldington Steam Rally", "text": "Stoke Goldington Steam Rally\n\nStoke Goldington Steam Rally & Country Fayre was an annual show which showcased UK heritage in the form of Steam Engines, Stationary Engines, vintage tractors and other agricultural machinery. The show was held on the second weekend in May, at Westside Farm, Stoke Goldington, for most of its approximately thirty-five year life, with the first show in 1976. The show was run by villagers and exhibit experts from the surrounding villages, and was set up to provide funds for the Stoke Goldington Village Hall which was opened in 1976. \n\nThe events were set on a site on a hillside above the village. \n\n"}
{"id": "3075852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3075852", "title": "Taurids", "text": "Taurids\n\nThe Taurids are an annual meteor shower, associated with the comet Encke. The Taurids are actually two separate showers, with a Southern and a Northern component. The Southern Taurids originated from Comet Encke, while the Northern Taurids originated from the asteroid 2004 TG. They are named after their radiant point in the constellation Taurus, where they are seen to come from in the sky. Because of their occurrence in late October and early November, they are also called Halloween fireballs.\n\nEncke and the Taurids are believed to be remnants of a much larger comet, which has disintegrated over the past 20,000 to 30,000 years, breaking into several pieces and releasing material by normal cometary activity or perhaps occasionally by close encounters with the tidal force of Earth or other planets (Whipple, 1940; Klačka, 1999). In total, this stream of matter is the largest in the inner solar system. Since the meteor stream is rather spread out in space, Earth takes several weeks to pass through it, causing an extended period of meteor activity, compared with the much smaller periods of activity in other showers. The Taurids are also made up of weightier material, pebbles instead of dust grains.\n\nTypically, Taurids appear at a rate of about 5 per hour, moving slowly across the sky at about 28 kilometers per second (17 mi/s), or 100,800 km/h (65,000 mph). If larger than a pebble, these meteors may become bolides as bright as the moon and leave behind smoke trails.\n\nDue to the gravitational perturbations of planets, especially Jupiter, the Taurids have spread out over time, allowing separate segments labeled the Northern Taurids (NTA) and Southern Taurids (STA) to become observable. The Southern Taurids are active from about September 10 to November 20, while the Northern Taurids are active from about October 20 to December 10. Essentially these are two cross sections of a single, broad, continuous stream in space. The Beta Taurids and Zeta Perseids, encountered by the Earth in June/July, are also cross sections of the stream that approach from the Earth's daytime side and, as such, cannot be observed visually in the way the (night-time) Northern and Southern Taurids of October/November can. Astronomers Duncan Steel and Bill Napier even suggest the Beta Taurids could be the cause of the Tunguska event of June 30, 1908.\n\nIn 1962 and 1963, the Mars 1 probe recorded one micrometeorite strike every two minutes at altitudes ranging from from Earth's surface due to the Taurids meteor shower, and also recorded similar densities at distances from from Earth.\n\nThe Taurid stream has a cycle of activity that peaks roughly every 2,500 to 3,000 years, when the core of the stream passes nearer to Earth and produces more intense showers. In fact, because of the separate \"branches\" (night-time in one part of the year and daytime in another; and Northern/Southern in each case) there are two (possibly overlapping) peaks separated by a few centuries, every 3000 years. Some astronomers note that dates for megalith structures such as Stonehenge are associated with these peaks. The next peak is expected around 3000 AD.\n\nThe Taurids also have more frequent peaks which may result from a heavier concentration of material in the stream, which only encounter Earth during some passes.\n\nIn 1993, it was predicted that there would be a swarm of activity in 2005. Around Halloween in 2005, many fireballs were witnessed that affected people's night vision. Astronomers have taken to calling these the \"Halloween fireballs.\"\n\nDuring the Southern Taurid meteor shower in 2013, fireball sightings were spotted over southern California, Arizona, Nevada, and Utah.\n\nAn impact event was observed by NASA scientist Rob Suggs and astronomer Bill Cooke on November 7, 2005, while testing out a new 250-mm (10 in) telescope and video camera they had assembled to monitor the moon for meteor strikes. After consulting star charts, they concluded that the impact body was probably part of the Taurid meteor shower. This may well be the first recording of this type of lunar event which some have claimed to have witnessed in the past.\n\n\"Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc.,\" 83, 711–745.\n\n"}
{"id": "27583063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27583063", "title": "The Majalla", "text": "The Majalla\n\nThe Majalla, often directly transliterated as Al Majalla (Arabic:المجلة, \"the magazine\") is a Saudi-owned, London-based political news journal published in Arabic, English and Persian. From 1980 to 2009 a print edition was issued weekly, every Sunday. In April 2009 the magazine moved to an all-online format. The online version continues to be published weekly. \n\n\"The Majalla\" was launched by Hisham Hafiz in London in 1980. The magazine is currently owned by Saudi Research and Marketing Group (SRMG), and was reestablished in 1987 by Ahmed bin Salman, then chairman of the SRMG. The current chairman of the SRMG is Turki bin Salman Al Saud.\n\nThe SRMG owns many other newspapers such as \"Arab News\", \"Al Eqtisadiah\", \"Urdu News\" and \"Asharq Al Awsat\" and magazines, including \"Sayidaty\", \"Al Jamila\", \"Arrajol\", \"Bassim\" and \"Heya\". \n\n\"The Majalla\", along with \"Sayidaty\" and \"Al Yamamah\", is among popular magazines in Saudi Arabia.\n\nGabriel G. Tabarani served as the deputy managing editor of \"the Majalla\" from 1980 to 1984. From 1983 to 1987 the chief editor of the magazine was Othman Al Omeir who currently owns news portal \"Elaph\". Then Abdel Rahman Al Rashid served as the editor-in-chief of the magazine from 1987 to 1998. Adel Al Toraifi was appointed editor-in-chief of \"the Majalla\" in 2010, and the chief editor of the magazine. In July 2012, Toraifi was also appointed deputy deputy chief editor of \"Asharq Al Awsat\", a daily published by SRMG. His term ended in July 2014. Toraifi's term as the editor-in-chief of the magazine ended in July 2014 when Salman bin Yousuf Al Dossary was appointed to the post.\n\n\"The Majalla\" offers the readers an overview of the main weekly news, analysis and exclusive reports with a focus on political affairs. The magazine also provides news from \"USA today\", \"Time Magazine\", \"World Monitor\" and \"MEED\".\n\nBecause of its close connection with the Arab world, \"The Majalla\" has often broken stories from sources close to militant groups like the PLO, Hamas, and Al-Qaeda. It also publishes articles written by senior Saudi princes like Prince Turki Al Faisal.\n\nThe magazine is also well known for its political cartoons, particularly those by the late Mahmoud Kahil. These were often critical of Israel and the United States. \"The Majalla\" sponsored London's first Festival for Arab Caricature in 1989.\n\nThe 1994 circulation of \"The Majalla\" was 116,000 copies. The audited circulation of the magazine at the end of the 1990s is stated to be just under 100,000 copies. Its 2009 circulation was 86.961 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "58561186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58561186", "title": "The Markup", "text": "The Markup\n\nThe Markup is an American nonprofit organization based in New York City that will focus on data driven journalism covering the ethics and impact of technology on society. Markup was co-founded by two former ProPublica journalists Julia Angwin and Jeff Larson. The idea was conceived in April 2018, and expects to launch in early 2019.\n\nLike ProPublica, all of their content will be licensed under a Creative Commons license.\n\nAccording to Julia Angwin, The Markup plans to collect and create public data sets through public records requests, automated data collection, crowdsourcing of information and creation of tools, for example at ProPublica they built a browser extension to analyze Facebook ads.\n\nThe Markup received $20 million gift from Craigslist founder Craig Newmark. They also raised $2 million from the Knight Foundation and an additional $1 million from Ford Foundation, MacArthur Foundation and the Ethics and Governance of Artificial Intelligence Initiative.\n"}
{"id": "16731467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16731467", "title": "York Early Music Festival", "text": "York Early Music Festival\n\nThe York Early Music Festival is an English arts festival devoted mainly to classical music from the 18th century and earlier. It was established in 1977, and takes place in York each July, organised by the National Centre for Early Music, York. The performances are at various venues such as York Minster, the Sir Jack Lyons Concert Hall at the University of York and the National Centre for Early Music, St Margaret's, Walmgate. In 2008, events also took place at Harewood House and the National Railway Museum. In December there is also a Christmas Early Music Festival.\n\nArtists who have appeared in the festival include\n\n\n"}
