{"id": "14018743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14018743", "title": "Academic drama", "text": "Academic drama\n\nAcademic drama refers to a theatrical movement that emerged in the mid 16th century during the Renaissance. Dedicated to the study of classical dramas for the purpose of higher education, universities in England began to produce the plays of Sophocles, Euripides, and Seneca the Younger (among others) in the Greek and Roman languages, as well as neoclassical dramas. These classical and neoclassical productions were performed by young scholars at universities in Cambridge and Oxford. Other European countries, such as Spain and Italy adapted classical plays into a mixture of Latin and vernacular dramas. These Spanish and Italian adaptations were used in teaching morals in schools and colleges. The intellectual development of dramas in schools, universities, and Inns of Court in Europe allowed the emergence of the great playwrights of the late 16th century.\n\nThe history of academic drama at Oxford University may be traced back to the mid 16th century. While there are records indicating dramatic performances were performed prior, dramatic production greatly increased in the 16th century. Academic dramas were performed in Christ Church and St. John's College at Oxford. The plays produced at Oxford were originally written in Latin, based on classical models. Used to teach playwriting and acting, these plays were written by both the students and instructors. In performance, audiences typically consisted of fellow students, though visits from royalty occasionally occurred. Among these royals were Queen Elizabeth I and King James I.\n\nIt is evident that academic drama at Oxford was highly regarded as a crucial part of the educational experience. The university covered all performance expenses. Additionally, no entrance fees were charged.\n\nIn producing academic drama, the colleges at Cambridge University were decidedly confined to performing Latin works. When Queen Elizabeth I sent requests to both Cambridge and Oxford requesting the performance of an English comedy, she was met with a decline from Cambridge. Cambridge replied they did not use plays in English. However, it must be noted that though Cambridge did not indulge the Queen with an English comedy, they were not opposed to neo-Latin comedies. The majority of surviving English neo-Latin university dramas were performed at Cambridge. Performances at Cambridge were in Latin and the material of choice was the classics. Folios found at St. John's at Cambridge show records of costumes housed for performances. It is believed these costumes were used in the acting of classical works by Aristophanes and Terence, as well as in morality plays.\n\nThe Inns of Court are referred to as the third university of England. Inns of Court were where practicing lawyers and law students gathered to eat, socialize, gain legal education, board, and be entertained. There were four of these Inns of Court: Gray's Inn, Inner Temple, Lincoln's Inn, and Middle Temple. In contrast to Cambridge and Oxford, who produced theatre as a literary study, the London Inns of Court produced theatre as a means of entertainment. Beginning around 1587, the Inns of Court produced masques and revels, yet another contrast from the Oxford and Cambridge plays. Until the end of the 17th century, these performances typically took the form of masques written by law students at the Inns of Court. Once the Inns of Court transitioned from masques to plays, the so-called third university served as a cradle for classical English drama. Eventually, by the early 17th century, writers such as Ben Jonson and William Shakespeare began producing English comedies at the Inns of Court, thus expanding the range of materials performed. After 1614, the masques were written and designed by professionals; simultaneously the new emerging dramas were written and performed by professional theatre practitioners. Due to the close proximity to the English court, nobility frequently attended the performances at the Inns of Court.\n\nAcademic drama was formed as an educational tool, not only to advance the arts, but to teach classical literature and language. Key subject matter for performance were classical dramas of ancient Greece and Rome. Prominent playwrights whose works were performed as part of the academic drama tradition include Aristophanes, Plautus, Seneca the younger, and Terrence.\nNeo-Latin or New Latin dramas as they may also be referred to, were plays written in Latin by students and professors at Oxford, Cambridge, and the Inns of Court. Subject matter ranged from religious, to satirical, to mythological. Eventually these original plays began to be written in English, preparing the way for the English drama of the Elizabethan Age.\n"}
{"id": "13984305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13984305", "title": "American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and their Descendants", "text": "American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and their Descendants\n\nThe American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and Their Descendants, also known as the American Gathering, is the largest organization of Holocaust survivors in North America. It functions as an umbrella organization for survivor resources, offering both services and advocacy. The American Gathering is active in Holocaust remembrance, education and commemoration programs. From 1983 onwards, the organization has held national reunion events.\n\nBenjamin Meed and his wife Vladka Meed helped to organize the first World Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors in Israel in June 1981. Inspired by and an outcome of that event, in 1981, the Meeds and other fellow Holocaust survivors established a North American organization called The American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and Their Descendants. The American Gathering organized a reunion event for survivors that was held in Washington, D.C. in April 1983. The 1983 event was organized by Hirsch Altusky, Sam Bloch, Fred Diament, Roman Kent, Benjamin Meed, Ernest Michel, James Rapp, Norbert Wollheim and Solomon Zynstein. Over 20,000 survivors and their families attended this first event.\n\nThe initial focus of the organization was to hold national and local reunions of survivors and their families and to combat isolation that survivors sometimes experienced, even within the wider Jewish community. The 1983 reunion was led by honorary chair, Elie Wiesel, with a speech given by President Ronald Reagan.\n\nThe American Gathering, located in New York City, is a member of other organizations such as the World Jewish Congress, the World Jewish Restitution Organization, the Jewish Community Relations Council and the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations. In that capacity, its mission is to use its moral authority to influence issues of importance to the survivor community and to the world Jewish community.\n\nThe Benjamin and Vladka Meed Registry of Holocaust Survivors was established in 1981 to document the names of survivors who came to the Americas after World War II. It is the only registry of its kind. In 1993, it was moved to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM). In cooperation with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, the American Gathering continues to manage the database and to seek new registrants via its quarterly newspaper \"Together\" and its website, among other venues. The Registry includes over 200,000 records related to survivors and their families and is a resource for Holocaust historians and scholars, as well as families looking for lost relatives.\n\nInitiated in 1984 by Vladka Meed and jointly administered by the American Gathering and the USHMM, the Holocaust and Jewish Resistance Teachers' Program is a two-week summer program for middle school and high school teachers, both Jewish and non-Jewish alike, on trips to Holocaust sites in Poland and to Israel. Participating scholars come from Yad Vashem in Jerusalem, the Study Center at Kibbutz Lohamei HaGeta'ot, and the USHMM in Washington, D.C. to speak with teachers selected for the program. A biannual Alumni Conference of the program's participants further reinforces its goals to foster remembrance and toleration.\n\nThe American Gathering is on the Board of Directors of the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, an organization that seeks restitution from the governments of Germany and Austria. The current negotiating committee is composed solely of survivors and chaired by the American Gathering's chairman Roman Kent, the restitution provides health care and assistance to survivors in desperate need.\n\nFounded in 1985, \"Together\" is the official publication of the American Gathering. With a circulation of approximately 85,000, it reflects the collective voice of survivors, the second and third generations, and includes news, opinions, information on education, commemorations, events, book reviews, announcements, searches, and articles on history and personal remembrance. Contributors include professional writers, poets, thinkers, historians and Holocaust scholars.\n\nThe American Gathering actively assists survivors on a daily basis. Whether it is through sitting on the Claims Conference, Self-Help Boards, manning an office to offer information, applications for assistance or interfacing with other related agencies on behalf of survivors, the American Gathering does its utmost to ensure that survivor issues are addressed.\n\nThe collective and individual initiatives of the American Gathering leadership has fostered Holocaust commemoration, remembrance events and the establishment of Holocaust memorials in many communities throughout the United States and in almost every State House in the Union. While the American Gathering continues to sponsor its own annual commemoration program with the Museum of Jewish Heritage and WAGRO, it has been instrumental in the creation of the ongoing Holocaust programs at both the United Nations and the U.S. Congress.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45186967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45186967", "title": "Antonio Arrúe Zarauz", "text": "Antonio Arrúe Zarauz\n\nAntonio Arrúe Zarauz (1903–1976) was a Spanish Carlist politician and a Basque cultural activist.\n\nAntonio Arrúe Zarauz was born in the Elizmendi quarter of Asteasu, a small town near Tolosa in the Gipuzkoa province, in the region then known as Vascongadas. None of the sources consulted offers any information on his parents, except that his father, Juan Arrúe, was the first organist in the local San Pedro church; he also served in a number of nearby villages and towns giving lessons. Correct spelling of Antonio's mother’s surname is disputed. It is not clear whether the family was in any way related to a number of known contemporary Basques bearing the same name, esp. the Arrúe Valle brothers and the Franciscan musician, José Arrúe. Antonio and his two sisters, Eleuteria and Dolores, were raised in a profoundly Catholic ambience.\n\nThe young Antonio obtained his bachillerato in the Lecároz college, run by the Capuchin friars in Elizondo, in the Navarrese region of Valle de Baztán, few miles from the French frontier. In the early 1920s he studied in Oviedo, enrolled at the Faculty of Law in the local university. None of the sources consulted gives exact dates of his academic period. Following graduation he returned to Gipuzkoa and started the career as a lawyer. It is not clear when and where he opened the office; he is first reported by the newspapers as “a young lawyer from Asteasu” in the early 1930s.\n\nIn 1941 Arrúe married María Teresa Salazar, a native of Tolosa. The couple settled in San Sebastián; Antonio continued with his law practice, opening the business in the very centre of the city; gradually he specialized in rural rent and heritage issues, working with a number of local companies, associations and institutions. María initially served as a secretary in his law office, later on to work as a seamstress in the garment shop, run by her mother. They had 3 daughters, Maite, María Ignacia and María Carmen. Their only son, Juan María Arrúe Salazar, became a well known donostian lawyer and is referred to as a specialist in urbanismo.\n\nIt is not clear whether Arrúe has inherited Traditionalist outlook from his ancestors – like most Carlists in Basque-Navarrese area have – or whether he embraced it during the schooling and academic years. None of the sources consulted offers also any clue as to which branch of the movement he joined in the 1920s, the Jaimistas, the Mellistas or the Integristas, though it is the latter group which seems most probable. Asteasu was in the very centre of the Integrist national stronghold, composed of Tolosa and Azpeitia districts; an Anastasio Arrúe was jefe of the local Tolosan Integrist junta, and a Pedro Arrúe was its treasurer; Antonio’s father as an organist was closely related to the parochial clergy; finally, in the early 1930s Antonio commenced collaboration with \"\", the local Gipuzkoan Integrist daily, later editing its newly introduced section in Basque.\n\nArrúe became a public figure after the three Traditionalist streams merged into a united Carlist organization, , in 1932. In 1933 he was already reported as an active speaker at local Carlist meetings, mostly in minor Gipuzkoan localities like Isasondo. In the summer of 1934 his activity became indeed hectic and was recorded also in major cities like San Sebastian. Soon gaining recognition as “notable orador”, Arrúe delivered vibrant harangues in Basque that sparked the enthusiasm of the audience. His speeches covered key Carlist topics: siding with the Church against Republican secularization, hailing Gipuzkoan caserios as bulwarks of loyalty, defending traditionalist monarchy as a warrant of regional fueros and confronting Basque nationalism as illusory and deceptive; there were also some social threads present. He spoke firmly against the , denouncing it as \"antivasco, antiforal y exótico\". Nominated secretary of the Carlist Junta Provincial of Gipuzkoa, he continued with public appearances – already dubbed “infatigable secretario” – throughout 1935 and early 1936.\n\nIt is not clear whether Arrúe contributed either to Carlist military buildup or political preparations to the July 1936 coup, as neither himself nor any of the sources consulted provides any related information. Once it became clear the insurgency failed in Gipuzkoa he went into hiding and resurfaced when the Carlist troops conquered the province. As the Junta Provincial was transformed into the wartime Traditionalist provincial body, Junta Carlista de Guerra of Gipuzkoa, Arrúe resumed his duties of its secretary. Some time late 1936 or early 1937 he became acting president of this body, as its February 1937 documents are already signed by him as \"presidente en funciones\".\n\nArrúe soon became disillusioned by military rule in the Nationalist zone, growing particularly anxious about preponderance of Falange in Gipuzkoa and about centralizing designs of the regime, perceived as a threat to Traditionalism, Basque culture and provincial identity. Already in October 1936 the Gipuzkoan Junta Carlista de Guerra, animated by Arrúe, voiced publicly against composition of the provincial comision gestora, bluntly stating that there are two wars: one in the trenches, and one in the corridors of power. Early 1937 he tried to co-ordinate a joint effort of Navarrese, Gipuzkoan and Biscay juntas, aimed at countering falangism and ensuring that provincial fueros do not suffer. Faced with growing threat of amalgamating Carlism within a monopolist state party, just a week between the he signed a circular, urging every Gipuzkoan Carlist to maintain loyalty to the Comunión.\n\nOnce Franco decreed abolishment of all parties and their unification within FET, Arrúe decided simply to ignore it. When the new Carlist regent, Don Javier, entered Spain in mid-May, Arrúe accompanied him across Gipuzkoa. On May 19, 1937 he took part in first of the two most emotional moments of his political career: Don Javier swearing at the Guernica oak to conform to and protect the traditional Basque fueros. The pledge soon suffered a major setback when, following the conquest of Biscay, Franco scrapped the provincial concierto economico in June 1937. Standoff between the military and Carlism continued as Don Javier re-entered Spain in November; Arrúe was appointed his personal secretary, touring the frontlines and making 4,000 km across Vascongadas, Castile, Extremadura and Andalusia. In December 1937 the adventure came to an abrupt end when in Granada Arrúe was reached by the military detention order; only thanks to intervention of collaborationist Carlists he was allowed to make it to the Burgos prison himself instead of having been escorted in handcuffs by Guardia Civil. It is not clear how much time he spent behind bars; released, he returned to Asteasu to lead Carlist opposition to falangisation of the province.\n\nOne scholar suggests that having moved with his newly wed wife to San Sebastián, Arrúe rejected proposals to live off perks and administrative positions. Instead, he joined the anti-collaborationist Carlist faction loyal to Don Javier, and threw himself into rebuilding the independent Traditionalist network in the province. In 1940 he was appointed the representative of Gipuzkoa in a 4-member interregional vasco-navarrese junta; the same year the Carlist political leader Manuel Fal Conde suggested he joins executive board of Editorial Navarra, the Carlist publishing house disguised as a commercial enterprise. In August 1942 as head of the Gipuzkoan junta he signed a manifesto prior to planned official celebrations commemorating the siege of Tolosa; the document urged loyalty to Don Javier and Fal, claiming that the future of Spain lies only with Carlism. As the event turned into riots between Carlists and Falangists, Arrúe – accused also of pro-Allies sympathies - was expulsed from Gipuzkoa and ordered a year of exile in Gijon.\n\nIn late 1940s Carlism lost its influence on Gipuzkoan , FET and major local ayuntamientos. Having returned to San Sebastían Arrúe resumed his semi-official Carlist activities; as the movement decomposed into many factions, he stayed loyal to Fal and the regent. He was with those judging that the regency aroused little enthusiasm amongst the rank-and-file and merely encouraged damaging dynastical competition; hence, he preferred that Don Javier announces his personal claim to the throne, which indeed took place in 1952.\n\nArrúe maintained very good relations with the Carlist political leader; he shared Fal’s intransigence on dynastical and anti-Francoist issues, while Fal shared and supported Arrúe’s drive to promote the Basque identity. Though in 1953 the Gipuzkoan junta was reconstituted under Ignacio Ruz de Prada and with Pablo Iturria as its secretary, it was in fact Arrúe remaining the provincial leader. One scholar suggests that Arrúe conspired against Fal, considering him too conventional in his anti-Francoist bid; if this is the case indeed, the ensuing deposition of Fal and collaborationist turn of mid-1950s caught Arrúe bitterly disappointed; he was leaning to a Sivattista dissidence. With José María Valiente emerging as a new national jefe, in 1956 Arrúe tried to oppose his course by forming Junta del Regiones; this semi-rebellious body was bent on preventing rapprochement with Francoism and envisioned a loose alliance of Carlists, nationalists, regionalists, Catholics and even some sectors of the Falange. The junta proved to be short-lived and some of its participants soon backtracked when challenged by Valiente, but Arrúe did not. In 1957 as Gipuzkoan jefe he automatically entered the newly formed Junta de Gobierno de la Comunión and kept confronting the new leader, accusing him of betraying the Carlist spirit. In early 1959 he resigned as jefe of Gipuzkoan Carlism, quoting disagreement with policy of the new Secretariat.\n\nThe Gipuzkoan command was temporarily assumed by junta’s vice-president, Luis Zuazola, but the Carlist king did not appoint a new jefe. In the early 1960s Arrúe remained the soul of provincial Traditionalism, apparently driving from the back seat though also assuming one-day prestigious ceremonial roles. When the claimant decided to compete with Basque nationalism by setting up an inter-regional Vasco-Navarrese council named Junta Foral Superior in 1961, Arrúe was considered an obvious representative of Gipuzkoa and a leading candidate to head the entire body. His opponents considered Arrúe a power-hungry Carlist version of Aguirre, keen to build his Vascongadas fiefdom, and as there were no suitable counter-candidates, the idea of Junta Foral was eventually abandoned. In 1962 José Aramburu was formally appointed jefe provincial.\n\nSidetracking of Arrúe was acknowledged by the regime, always keen to exploit differences within various political groupings, by awarding him Orden del Mérito Civil in 1964. In mid-1960s Arrúe, from 1957 supporting Carlist prince Carlos Hugo, neared the group of his young entourage. He engaged in their new publishing house Ediciones Montejurra and in the spring of 1967 was rewarded with the privilege of addressing the annual Montejurra amassment, the key event in hugocarlista strategy of grabbing power within the Comunión and a promotional stage for Carlos Hugo himself. Speaking as usual in Basque he focused on regional rights, though his lecture arose little enthusiasm and there were even some jeers recorded.\n\nIn late 1967 Arrúe stood as a Carlist in the newly introduced, semi-free elections to the Cortes from the so-called , and defeated the governmental candidates in Gipuzkoa. He immediately carried into the parliament the just-launched campaign to re-introduce concierto economico, though despite attempts to mount some public pressure, the initiative came to nothing producing only minor alterations to the original abolition law. As part of a hardly veiled dissident strategy, Arrúe joined who, unable to get adequate hearing in the chamber, staged rump informal sessions across the country; this “Cortes transhumantes” was formally banned in 1968. In early 1969, together with 3 fellow Carlist MPs, Arrúe protested expulsion of Don Javier and Carlos Hugo.\n\nOn July 22, 1969 Arrúe recorded the second of the two most emotional moments in his political career: in an open, one-by-one Cortes voting in front of Franco he voiced against Juan Carlos de Borbón as the future king of Spain. Paradoxically, at that time he was increasingly alienated by the pro-democratic turn of the dynasty he remained loyal to. Though when in 1970 Carlos Hugo established his \"Gabinete Ideologico\", Arrúe joined its foral commission, he remained in this body no longer than until 1971. Following a scandal related to re-election negotiations of the Navarrese MPs, he broke up with Partido Carlista, now firmly controlled by the socialist progressists, and did not run in the 1971 elections. He kept considering himself a Traditionalist and an immense portrait of the Carlist king Javier I remained in his office.\n\nArrúe’s mother tongue was Basque and he spoke Basque also with his own children. Little is known about his early views on the Basque question. In the 1930s he firmly opposed PNV and its political ambitions, confronting them with a traditionalist vision of \"foral Euskalerria\" as an integral part of Spain; simultaneously he stood out by delivering all his speeches in Basque, at that time practiced only by some PNV politicians. As a leading Carlist politician in Gipuzkoa, during the Civil War and in the 1940s he showed a concern for Basque culture and for Basque provincial rights, though not for Basque political ambitions.\n\nAs some pre-war Basque cultural institutions were getting re-established in the Francoist Spain, Arrúe was increasingly engaged in their activities. In 1953 he assumed co-directorship of \"\", a review issued by Real Academia Vascongada de Amigos del País. It is in \"Egan\" that in 1954 he started to publish a regular column dedicated to cuisine and maintained for over 20 years. The same year he commemorated fellow Carlist vascologist Julio Urquijo Ibarra by facilitating foundation of a Basque philology institute bearing his name. When Euskaltzaindia, the Basque language academy, managed to regain its precarious legal standing in the early 1950s, Arrúe neared the institution, to join it formally in 1954. As a lawyer and a politician he was instrumental in organizing its first congress in Aránzazu in 1956, overcoming a number of legal, administrative and political obstacles. He also presided over many of its sessions and was key to engineering the follow-up, vital to the re-launching of Euskaltzaindia after the Civil War.\n\nRelieved from political Carlist duties, in the late 1950s Arrúe fully dedicated himself to Euskaltzaindia. He was the moving spirit behind its newly established commission dedicated to bertsolarism and promoted the genre by organizing local qualifications, leading up to the final contest formatted as a major San Sebastián cultural event in 1960, 1962, 1965 and 1967. He was also a jury member, in case of discrepancies his vote often prevailing. He facilitated a number of editorial initiatives, acknowledged in particular for the 1961 launch of \"Colección Auspoa\" series and the 1964 re-print of \"\", a monumental 17th century Basque literary work. Some authors claim he also helped to push many works through the Francoist censorship. As an author he popularized Basque culture by writing to \"La Voz de España\", \"Egan\", \"Euskera\", \"\", \"El Fuerista\", \"\" and by delivering public lectures.\n\nIn 1966 he was among initiators of the Euskaltzaindia memorandum to the Ministry of Education, suggesting pilot Basque classes in public schools, limited bilingualism in primary schools and graduation Basque classes in universities, apart from state subventions and limited introduction of Basque in official public use. As a lawyer Arrúe assisted in Aránzazu congress of 1968, vital for building the unified Basque language. In 1969, when Euskaltzaindia’s legal standing was challenged, he threw himself into massive lawyer’s work, resulting in forming its firm juridical basis in 1972.\n\nArrúe, an amateur with no professional background either in linguistics or ethnography, was in the second row of those scientifically contributing to the Basque culture. His works – articles published in Basque- and Spanish-language periodicals, mostly in \"Egan\" – are loosely scattered across many disciplines: history of Basque literature, history of Basque linguistics, grammar of Basque language, Basque dialectology, history of Basque social movement, Basque anthropology, theory of contemporary Basque poetry, Basque history, Basque cuisine and foreign literature; it was only the question of Basque political ambitions that he avoided – at least in the Francoist Spain – and usually approached only as part of the Carlist history.\n\nArrúe’s role in theoretical development of the Basque language and culture is perhaps dwarfed by his practical contribution. Since the 1930s he has been hailed by media, colleagues and Vascófilos as a great speechmaker, who has not only transplanted spoken Basque from barns to congress halls, but also brought it to unprecedented rhetorical mastery. Considered one of the best Basque orators of his time, he was acknowledged not for highly emotional inflammatory style, but rather for smoothness, sense of humor, vivacity and fluidity. His practical contribution to written Basque, apart from scientific articles, covers also short poems, usually humorous light pieces like a praise of the Jerez sherry, occasionally winning prizes during local contests.\nArrúe remained a rather forgotten figure until a compilation of his works was released in 2008 and triggered some follow up both in media and in historiography. According to the recently published works his contribution to the Basque cause is highly controversial. It remains beyond any doubt that he opposed independent Basque political ambitions, defended integrity of Spain and has always considered the Basques part of the Spanish political nation; different views pertain to his intentions and to his impact on Basque culture and Basque national development.\n\nIn some studies Arrúe is presented as “one of us”, a Basque who trapped in political maze of his time did his best to promote Basque culture against the hostile background of Francoist regime. He is credited mostly for his support as organizer, lawyer and politician, a person who delivered an umbrella sheltering Basque institutions and enabling cultural development, shaped and directed by the others.\n\nIn some studies Arrúe is presented as “a vascófilo within the regime”, a person who tried to accommodate Basque cultural ambitions within the Francoist system. In this perspective, Arrúe appears to be either someone whose contribution was merely a byproduct of his Carlist political leaning, someone who unintentionally promoted the cause, or someone who was used by the Basques to pursue their cultural and national goals.\n\nIn some studies Arrúe is presented as a badly reputed \"Asteasu beltza\". Adherent to a backward ideology, he censored the Basque literature, forced pro-Francoist distortions, promoted clericalism, sponsored Spanish lexical intrusions into Basque, obstructed disliked people and publications and manipulated bertsolari contests in terms of their winners and in terms of their public reception. In a nutshell, according to this view Arrúe was nothing less than a Francoist “political commissar” delegated to Euskaltzaindia, and his activity remained detrimental to Basque national development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29283658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29283658", "title": "Brison D. Gooch", "text": "Brison D. Gooch\n\nBrison Dowling Gooch (March 1, 1925 – November 25, 2014) was an American historian who was a professor emeritus of 19th-century European history at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas (TAMU). He was an authority on the Revolutions of 1848, Napoleon III, Belgium, and the Crimean War.\n\nGooch was one of six children to be born to Austin McLellan Gooch, a carpenter, and the former Clara Helen Dowling, in Bar Harbor in Hancock County, Maine. In the United States Army, at the end of World War II, he served in Belgium and Germany. While in Germany, he attended the Nuremberg trials and heard discussions of German army atrocities in Russia. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio.\n\nPrior to his tenure at TAMU, which included terms as the history chairperson and associate dean of Liberal Arts, Gooch taught at Culver Military Academy and was a history professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of Oklahoma at Norman, and department head at the University of Connecticut at Storrs. In an academic career that spanned four decades, Gooch taught during summer sessions at the University of Nebraska at Lincoln, the University of Maine, and the University of Wisconsin at Madison, where he had received both his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees. He also was a Carnegie visiting scholar for a year at Yale and Fulbright Faculty Research scholar in Belgium.\n\nGooch's second wife, Shirley Jean Ferrell Black Gooch (April 20, 1935 – September 3, 1996), known professionally as Shirley J. Black, was also a TAMU professor of European history and highly active in the profession.\n\n\nGooch contributed articles to a number of major historical journals, including the \"American Historical Review\", the \"Hispanic American Historical Review\", the \"Austrian History Yearbook\", \"Military Affairs\" and \"Victorian Studies\".\n\nGooch was active in various professional organizations, including the American Historical Association (AHA), and he attended many meetings and conventions during his career and also in retirement. In December 1969, he was elected to the nominating committee at the AHA annual meeting, and in 1979 was also elected by his colleagues as the president of the Southwestern Social Sciences Association.\n\nIn 1974, Gooch was one of the founders of the Western Society for French History and served as its president in 1982.\n\nBrison Gooch retired in 1991 and relocated to Silverton, Colorado, a scenic mountain resort and former mining community in San Juan County in southwestern Colorado. After Shirley's death, Gooch married Freda Carley Peterson, a local historian, author of \"The Story of Hillside Cemetery\", and archivist for the San Juan County Historical Society in Silverton.\n\nIn 2007, Gooch donated his personal library to Tabor College, a small liberal arts college in Hillsboro, Kansas.\n\nIn 2009, Brison and Freda Gooch were named \"Citizens of the Year\" by the Silverton Chamber of Commerce.\n\nGooch served as Silverton's municipal judge and as a member of the town council, until his resignation in December 2009. He was also a former member of the Silverton School Board.\n\nGooch died at the age of eighty-nine in 2014 in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, where he had alternated his time with Silverton during his last years.\n"}
{"id": "25040467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25040467", "title": "Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Seert", "text": "Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Seert\n\nSeert was a diocese of the Chaldean Church during the eighteenth, nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries. The diocese was ruined during the First World War.\n\nThere is no evidence for an East Syrian bishop or metropolitan of Seert before the schism of 1551. From just before the end of the fifteenth century Seert seems to have been under the jurisdiction of the metropolitan Eliya of Nisibis, who was styled 'metropolitan of Nisibis, Mardin, Amid, Hesna d'Kifa and Seert' in a colophon of 1477; 'metropolitan of Nisibis, Armenia, Amid, Hesna d'Kifa and Seert' in 1480; and 'metropolitan of Nisibis, Armenia, Mardin, Amid, Seert and Hesna d'Kifa' in 1483. In 1504 another Eliya, perhaps the same man, was styled 'metropolitan of Amid, Gazarta and Seert' in the colophon of a manuscript copied in the monastery of Mar Yaqob.\n\nAccording to Tfinkdji, followed by Fiey, the first bishop or metropolitan of Seert was Joseph, brother of the patriarch Yohannan Sulaqa, who would have been among the bishops consecrated by Sulaqa in 1554. The source for this assertion is not clear, and it is possible that Joseph was instead metropolitan of Gazarta, where a metropolitan of that name is attested between 1555 and 1568. In any case, Joseph Sulaqa did not remain long in his office. In 1555 he was sent to India with Eliya Asmar by the patriarch Abdisho IV and was there consecrated metropolitan of India. He did not return to Mesopotamia, and after struggling for several years to maintain his authority in the face of harassment by the Portuguese authorities, he died in 1569 in or on his way to Rome.\n\nAlthough there are no references to a bishop of Seert in manuscript colophons from the second half of the sixteenth century, the monastery of Mar Yaqob in the Seert district was the seat of the patriarch Abdisho IV Maron and his successor Shemon VIII Yahballaha, and a number of manuscripts were copied there by Abdisho himself and by the Catholic metropolitans Eliya Asmar of Amid and Hnanisho of Mardin. The district would therefore have come under strong Catholic influence at this period, and it is not surprising to find Seert listed by Abdisho IV in 1562 as a metropolitan see under his jurisdiction, with a suffragan bishop at 'Azzen', possibly Hesna d'Kifa.\n\nAccording to Peter Strozza, the Catholic patriarch Shemon IX Denha (1580–1600) was archbishop of Jilu and Seert before his election, and may therefore have been consecrated by Abdisho IV. His letter of 1580 written to pope Gregory XIII shortly after his election was witnessed, among others, by the bishops Sargis of Jilu and Joseph of Seert, both probably consecrated by the new patriarch.\n\nThe witnesses of Eliya VII's profession of faith in 1586 did not include a metropolitan of Seert, but a metropolitan of Seert named Mar Yaqob, 'superior of the monastery of Seert', is mentioned by Leonard Abel in 1587 as among 'the more lettered men of the Nestorian nation'.\n\nThe metropolitan Eliya Bar Tappe, dependent on the patriarch Eliya VIII, is mentioned under a variety of titles in the dating formulas or colophons of several manuscripts between 1599 and 1618. He resided at the monastery of Mar Yaqob throughout his reign, and was primarily responsible for the diocese of Seert, though he clearly had responsibilities for Amid, Gazarta and Hezzo also, and was regarded as their metropolitan for at least part of his reign. He is mentioned as metropolitan of Amid in the report of 1607, and was among the recipients of a letter of Peter Strozza in 1614. He was present at the synod of Amid in 1616 with the metropolitans of Amid and Gazarta, and was on that occasion styled simply metropolitan of Seert.\n\nThe dating formula of a manuscript copied in the monastery of Mar Yaqob in 1612 mentions the patriarch Eliya and 'the metropolitans Mar Eliya and Mar Gabriel'. Mar Gabriel is probably to be identified with the metropolitan Gabriel of Hesna d'Kifa, attested between 1607 and 1617, and there is no need to suppose that Seert had two metropolitans at this period.\n\nEliya Bar Tappe died on 1 March 1618, the third Sunday of Lent, and was buried in the monastery of Mar Yaqob the Recluse near Seert. He was succeeded as metropolitan by his nephew Ishoyahb, who built the sanctuary door of the monastery of Mar Yaqob in 1619. Ishoyahb's jurisdiction also seems to have been wider than Seert itself, and he is mentioned under a variety of titles in the dating formulas of manuscripts copied between 1618 and 1628.\n\nA metropolitan named Eliya, 'nephew of Mar Ishoyahb', died on the Friday of Saint John the Baptist, 1660.\n\nA metropolitan of Seert named Yohannan was one of the signatories of a letter of 22 November 1669 from the catholicus Eliya X to pope Clement IX.\n\nHe was probably succeeded by the metropolitan Shemon Bar Tappe, attested in September 1702, when a manuscript was copied for the bishop 'Mar Shemon, of the Tappe family, living in the monastery of Mar Yaqob'. Tfinkdji, followed by Fiey, confused him with his Catholic namesake Shemon Kemo (see below), and placed his death in 1742. He was probably a Nestorian bishop dependent on the Eliya line, and is not mentioned again, unless he is the unnamed ‘heretic bishop’ who recovered two villages of Seert from Shemon Kemo in 1738.\n\nIn 1730, shortly before his departure for Rome, Joseph III consecrated a Catholic bishop for Seert, Yohannan Shemon Kemo, who appears to have been a native of the Seert village of Seduh. During Joseph's absence in Rome Shemon acted as his patriarchal vicar, and had to combat a fierce Nestorian reaction in his diocese in 1738, in which two villages were recovered from the Catholics by a 'heretic bishop' while he was administering the patriarchate in Amid. Two of his letters imploring the patriarch to return from Rome, written on 28 December 1737 and 5 March 1739 respectively, have survived in the Vatican archives. He was also the scribe of two manuscripts in the Seert collection, one of which was copied in 1746. He is said by Tfinkdji to have governed his diocese for more than forty years, but it is not known when he died.\n\nPeter Shawriz of Seert, nephew of Mikha'il Shawriz, bishop of Mardin, was consecrated metropolitan of Seert in 1801 by the metropolitan and \"natar kursya\" Hnanisho, nephew of the patriarch Eliya XIII Ishoyahb. He travelled to Rome in 1806 to secure the confirmation of his appointment, but was frustrated for several years by the French occupation. On his eventual return from Rome he met Henry Leeves of the British and Foreign Bible Society and the British embassy chaplain Robert Walsh in Constantinople in 1822, and the information he provided encouraged Leeves to contact the mountain Nestorians. As a result of this association he was deposed from his diocese by the Vatican in 1823, and was then employed by Leeves as an agent of the Society, visiting the patriarch Shemon XVII Abraham in 1824 with Syriac copies of the Psalms and the New Testament. He died at Khosrowa in 1831.\n\nHe was succeeded by the Rabban Hormizd monk Mikha'il Kattula of Telkepe, one of the many opponents of Yohannan VIII Hormizd, who was consecrated in 1826 by Joseph V. He died in 1855 and was buried in the monastery of Mar Yaqob.\n\nHe was succeeded by Peter Mikha'il Bartatar of Khosrowa, who had been educated by the Propaganda and served as a priest at Baghdad and then at Mosul before his ordination. He was consecrated by the patriarch Joseph VI Audo on 7 November 1858, and was present with the patriarch at the First Vatican Council. He retired to the monastery of Mar Guriya in 1878 following a dispute with the newly elected patriarch Eliya XII Abulyonan, and died in the village of Piroz in 1885.\n\nHe was succeeded in 1885 by Yaqob Mikha'il Namo of Mosul, who became a priest in 1863, was appointed first director of the patriarchal seminary in Mosul in 1867, and became patriarchal vicar at Baghdad in 1875. He retired either in 1888 or 1891, and died at Baghdad in 1895. The future patriarch Joseph Emmanuel Thomas, who was born in Alqosh in 1852 and became a priest in 1879, succeeded him as metropolitan of Seert in either 1890 (De Clerq) or 1892 (Fiey), remaining there until his election as patriarch in 1900.\n\nThe last Chaldean metropolitan of Seert was the scholar Addaï Scher (1902–15), whose many achievements included cataloguing the East Syrian manuscript collections of Seert, Amid, Mardin, Mosul and Alqosh, and editing for publication the \"Chronicle of Seert\", a most important historical source for East Syrian Christianity under the Sassanians and the early caliphs. He was also the author of \"Épisodes de l’histoire du Kurdistan\" and other scholarly articles on the history of the Church of the East. He was murdered on 20 June 1915 during the massacre of Christians in the Seert district, and it is said his final hours were spent in an attempt to conceal the precious collection of manuscripts in the monastery of Mar Yaqob. The debt which all modern scholars of the Church of the East owe to Scher was expressed by Fiey:\nLa catastrophe finale de 1915 est encore toute proche de nous. De ce drame humain on ne peut évidemment décider ce qui fut le plus tragique. Hélas! ce n'est plus dans un Journal scientifique, ni avec de l'encre qu'Addaï Scher aura écrit ce dernier des \"Épisodes de l'histoire du Kurdistan\".\nThe Anglican missionary George Percy Badger was unable to gather detailed statistics in respect of the Chaldean diocese of Seert, but he said that it consisted of eleven villages, and estimated that the diocese contained 12 churches, 9 priests and 300 Chaldean families. In 1852 Marchi estimated the Chaldean population of the diocese at 1,865 persons.\n\nIn 1888 the population of the diocese (Seert and 33 villages) was estimated at between 3,500 and 4,000 Chaldeans (P. Müller-Simonis and H. Hyvernat), and in 1891 at 2,600 Chaldeans (Cuinet).\n\nIn 1896 the diocese had a population of 5,000 Chaldeans, and contained 22 parishes (plus a further 15 Nestorian villages in the process of conversion to Catholicism), 21 churches, and 17 priests (Chabot).\n\nIn 1913 the diocese contained 37 villages, with 5,430 believers, 21 priests, 31 churches, 7 chapels, 9 schools and 4 mission stations (Tfinkdji).\n\n\"Table 1: Chaldean communities in the diocese of Seert, 1913\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37280998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37280998", "title": "Cheonjiwang Bonpuri", "text": "Cheonjiwang Bonpuri\n\nThe Cheonjiwang Bonpuri ( \"Chronicles of Cheonjiwang\") is a Korean creation myth, traditionally retold by shamans on the Jejudo. It is one of the best-known creation myths in the Korean Peninsula and many key elements in the \"Cheonjiwang Bonpuri\" can be found in the creation myths of the mainland.\n\nDespite its title, the supreme deity Cheonjiwang (), whose name means \"King of the Heavens and the Earth\", serves mainly as a secondary character. The protagonists of the myth are instead the two sons of Cheonjiwang, Daebyeol and Sobyeol.\n\nThe myth starts with the creation of the world, when the sky and the earth were one (This concept can be found in most other creation myths; see Chaos and Ginnungagap). As there were no sky nor earth, as a result, there was only an empty void. However, one day, a gap formed in the void. All that was lighter than the gap headed upwards and formed the sky. All that was heavier than the gap fell down to become the earth. From the sky fell a clear blue drop of dew, and from the earth rose a dark black drop of dew. As these two drops mixed, all that existed, except the sun, moon, and the stars, came to be. From these two drops came humans and even the gods.\n\nThe leader of the gods, Cheonjiwang, awoke to the cry of the three roosters; the Rooster Emperor of the Sky (), the Rooster Emperor of the Earth (), and the Rooster Emperor of Humans (). According to some scholars, the cry of the roosters signifies time.) Cheonjiwang knew that the three roosters were crowing because there was no sun. To appease the roosters, Cheonjiwang crafted two suns and two moons, and made the two suns rise and fall every day and the two moons rise and fall every night.\n\nMeanwhile, the king of the mortal human world (\"Iseung\", \"This World\") was Sumyeong Jangja, the first human to tame the beasts. He ruled atop the humans with his nine horses, nine bulls, and nine bloodhounds, taking most of the crop away and leaving just enough to prevent starvation. Sumyeong Jangja, riding on his chariot pulled by his horses and surrounded by his fierce dogs, was invincible.\nOne day, Sumyeong Jangja cried \"Who dare subdue me?\", looking up at the sky.\n\nHis boast reached the ears of Cheonjiwang. The infuriated god invaded Sumyeong Jangja's kingdom. He rode on his own golden chariot pulled by his five dragons. He ordered his lieutenants, the deities, Byeorak Jangun (), Hwadeok Jingun ( and Pungu Dosa (), to accompany him to Sumyeong Jangja's realm. The Three generals themselves led an army of 10,000 soldiers. When Cheonjiwang's army reached Sumyeong Jangja's palace, He climbed up a willow near the palace and cried out; \"Foolish human, kneel before me!\"\n\nSumyeong Jangja sent out all of his horses, bulls and hounds at the Cheonjiwang, but with a wave of His hands, all the beasts suddenly found themselves atop the roof of Sumyeong Jangja's palace. With another wave of His hands, the iron pots in Sumyeong Jangja's kitchen launched themselves into Sumyeong Jangja's garden.\n\nSumyeong Jangja fought fiercely against the soldiers of Heaven, but he was finally forced to kneel before Him. He put an iron ring on Sumyeong Jangja's head (as in \"Journey to the West\") and Sumyeong Jangja experienced extreme pain as if his head was exploding. Whatever he did, the iron ring did not get off Sumyeong Jangja's head. Finally, in despair, Sumyeong Jangja ordered a slave to ease his pain by decapitating him. The surprised Cheonjiwang murmured \"Amazing\" and took the iron ring off Sumyeong Jangja's head. He then continued on his way.\n\nCheonjiwang did not return to Heaven immediately, but spent the night in Grandmother Baekju's cottage. The bright-eared god heard someone brushing her hair with a jade comb in the next room and asked Grandmother Baekju who she was. She answered that it was her only daughter, Chongmyeong Agi. (). Chongmyeong was fairer than the Seonnyeo[Eastern Heavenly Ladies]. Cheonjiwang asked both Chongmyeong and Grandmother Baekju if he could have sexual intercourse with her and both agreed. Thus, that night, Chongmyeong Agi became Chongmyeong Buin ().\n\nCheonjiwang stayed with his new wife for four days, then left. He gave Chongmyeong two gourd seeds and advised her to name their children Daebyeol () and Sobyeol (). Cheonjiwang then flew away on his golden, dragon-led chariot.\n\nChongmyeong gave birth to two identical twin boys who she named Daebyeol and Sobyeol as the Cheonijwang had requested. One day, when the twins matured, they asked their mother, \"Who is our father?\" (a child abandoned by their parents is one of the most common theme in Korean mythology) Chongmyeong answered that their father was Cheonjiwang.\n\nThe twins planted the two gourd seeds. Gourd vines instantly sprouted from the seeds, and the vines finally grasped on the left armrest of Cheonjiwang's throne. They climbed up the vines until they reached the Palace of the Heavens, the abode of Cheonjiwang. But because of the combined weight of the two brothers, the left armrest of Cheonjiwang's throne had been broken. From that day, all thrones had no left armrest.\n\nWhen Cheonjiwang found his sons, he admitted that they were his sons after a glance at them. Cheonjiwang informed them that he found it difficult to rule the heavens, the earth, the mortal world, and the netherworld(Jeoseung) all at the same time, and told the twins to try a contest between each other in order to aid him.\n\nThe first contest was riddles. Daebyeol would ask two riddles to his brother, who would answer it. If Sobyeol gave the right answers, he would rule the mortal world and his brother would rule the netherworld. However, if Sobyeol gave the wrong answers, his brother would rule the mortal world and he would rule the netherworld.\n\nDaebyeol's first question was \"Why do the leaves of some trees fall, while the leaves of other trees do not?\" His brother answered that the leaves of trees that were hollow fell while the leaves of trees that were full did not fall. However, Daebyeol gave an example of a hollow tree that did not shed its leaves; the reed.\n\nSobyeol's next question was whether the plants in the high regions or the low regions grew better. Sobyeol answered that plants in the low areas grew better. However, Daebyeol refuted Sobyeol by saying that hair on the high areas (the head) grew better than on the low areas (the feet). Thus, Daebyeol won again and could rule the mortal world, but Sobyeol, who did not want to rule the netherworld, pleaded to have a new contest. The soft-hearted and kind Daebyeol agreed, and Cheonjiwang thought of a new competition.\n\nThe next contest was growing flowers for a hundred days. A hundred days later, the person with the better flower would rule the mortal world, and the person with the worse flower would rule the netherworld. Cheonjiwang gave them two flowerpots and two seeds, and let them grow their own flowers.\n\nAs time passed, the victor was obvious. Daebyeol's flower was full of life while Sobyeol's flower was dried up. But in the ninety-ninth night, Sobyeol only pretended to go to sleep that night and thus secretly switched the flowers, planting his flower in Daebyeol's pot and planting Daebyeol's flower in his own pot. The next day, Sobyeol proudly cried out that he was the victor. Thus, Daebyeol was forced to rule the netherworld, and Sobyeol went to rule the mortal world.\n\nThe first thing Sobyeol did when he came to the mortal world was to kill Sumyeong Jangja. Sobyeol defeated all of Sumyeong Jangja's beasts and personally captured him, forcing Sumyeong Jangja to kneel before himself. Sobyeol ordered his soldiers to rip Sumyeong Jangja apart into four pieces, and to throw his flesh and bones into the air. Sumyeong Jangja's cadaver turned into swarms of flies, mosquitoes, and bed bugs, which still plague the mortal world.\n\nSobyeol exterminated Sumyeong Jangja's children as well. Sumyeong Jangja's daughter turned into a bean weevil, and his son turned into a kite. Finally, Sobyeol burned down Sumyeong Jangja's palace.\n\nBut after the execution of Sumyeong Jangja and his family, Sobyeol came to be shocked at the mortal world's chaotic state. Grass, trees, fish, birds, beasts, and humans all had the power of speech, making the mortal world extremely loud. Humans could not converse with each other because whenever a human tried to talk to another person, it was not a fellow human but a gwisin (ghost) who answered it. Moreover, there were two suns and two moons in the sky. Every day, many people burned away, and every night, many people froze to death. Finally, humans were extremely aggressive, promiscuous and injust and were great liars and tricksters.\n\nSobyeol pleaded to his brother, Daebyeol, to rid the mortal world of this chaos, and the twins headed to Sobyeol's realm. Daebyeol prepared the Cheongeunsal, his two arrows, and five sacks of pine dust. Each of the Cheongeunsal weighed 600 kilograms, and were made purely of iron. With the first Cheongeunsal, Daebyeol shot down one of the two suns. The remains of the destroyed sun became the stars of the east sky. The next night, Daebyeol shot down one of the two moons. The remains of the destroyed moon became the stars of the west sky. Only since then were there one sun, one moon, and countless stars in the sky.\n\nDaebyeol then sprayed his sacks of pine dust upon the world. Whenever the pine dust touched a grass, tree, fish, bird, or beast, it rendered these plants and animals incapable of speech. Finally, Daebyeol sorted out the ghosts and humans. The lighter beings became ghosts, and the heavier beings became humans. Daebyeol then returned to the netherworld.\n\nHowever, Sobyeol forgot to tell Daebyeol about the chaotic habits of the humans. Thus, humans remained aggressive, promiscuous, and injust, and were still liars and tricksters, and Sobyeol could not prevent this chaos because his power was lesser than Daebyeol's.\n\nMeanwhile, Chongmyeong was given the title of Bajiwang, the earth goddess, and thus, the four realms of the heavens, the mortal world, the netherworld, and the earth each came to have a ruler.\n\nThe \"Cheonjiwang Bonpuri\" has many integral themes that are common in Korean mythology of the mainland (the \"Cheonjiwang Bonpuli\" myth is retold only in the large island of Jeju).\n\nIn the \"Changsega\" myth of the Hamheung region, the creator, Mireuk, destroys each of the two suns and moons, and creates the stars with the destroyed sun and moon. However, it is not shown how Mireuk destroyed the sun and the moon\n\nAlso in the \"Changsega\", Mireuk and the evil deity Seokga has three contests to win the world. The last contest is also growing flowers; in this case, magnolia flowers. If the magnolia flower grew towards Mireuk, Mireuk would win, and vice versa. The flower grew towards Mireuk, but Seokga broke the stem of the plant and put it in his own lap. Looking at what Seokga had done, Mireuk cursed both the magnolia and the mortal world, leading the mortal world to be imperfect and causing the magnolia to die quickly.\n\nIn the \"Shirumal\" myth of the Seoul region, the Seonmun and Humun brothers destroy each of the two suns and moons.\n\nFinally, in the Dosolsa myth, written in the history book \"Samguk Yusa\", the protagonist also destroys the sun and the moon.\n\nThus, it is generally believed that the \"Cheonjiwang Bonpuli\" myth is a branch of the ancestral Korean creation myth, which held such themes as the destruction of each of the two suns and a flower-growing contest between good and evil deities. These themes are still represented in many Korean creation myths, including the \"Cheonjiwang Bonpuli\".\n"}
{"id": "42718187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42718187", "title": "Chilla (month)", "text": "Chilla (month)\n\nChillā (Nepal Bhasa: चिल्ला) is the fifth month in the Nepal Era calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. The month coincides with Phalguna (फागुन) in the Hindu lunar calendar and March in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nChillā begins with the new moon and the full moon falls on the 15th of the lunar month. The month is divided into the bright and dark fortnights which are known as Chillā Thwa (चिल्ला थ्व) and Chillā Gā (चिल्ला गा) respectively.\n\nThe major event that occurs during this month is Holi, the festival of colors, which begins on the 8th day of the bright fortnight and climaxes on the full moon day. The Chir, a pole surmounted by an umbrella-like structure decorated with strips of colorful cloth, is erected at Kathmandu Durbar Square to announce the festival.\n\nThe sacred bathing ceremony of the deity Nālā Karunāmaya, the Bodhisattva of Compassion, is held on the 1st day of the dark fortnight at Nālā. The chariot procession of Nālā Karunamaya is held on the 3rd day.\n\nThe festival of Pahan Charhe, one of the most important religious celebrations in Kathmandu, starts on the 14th day of the dark fortnight. Ghode Jātrā, the horse racing festival, is held the next day at the open ground of Tundikhel.\n"}
{"id": "1413997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1413997", "title": "Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya", "text": "Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya\n\nDebiprasad Chattopadhyaya (19 November 1918 – 8 May 1993) was an Indian Marxist philosopher. He made contributions to the exploration of the materialist current in ancient Indian philosophy. He is known for \"\", which is his exposition of the philosophy of Lokayata. He is also known for work on history of science and scientific method in ancient India, especially his 1977 book \"Science and Society in Ancient India\" on the ancient physicians Charaka and Sushruta. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian honour, posthumously, in 1998.\n\nDebiprasad Chattopadhyaya was born on 19 November 1918 in Calcutta. His father was a supporter of India's freedom struggle. It was probably his influence that initiated Debiprasad to two major passions in his life – Indian philosophy and politics; however, he quickly progressed towards radical streams in both fields, developing a lifelong commitment to Marxism and communist movement. At a very early stage of his life Chattopadhyaya immersed himself in the left nationalist movement by joining the Association of Progressive Writers, which was formed in 1936.\n\nDebiprasad Chattopadhyaya obtained his academic training in philosophy in Calcutta, West Bengal under eminent philosophers like Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan and S. N. Dasgupta. After standing first in philosophy at University of Calcutta both in B.A. (1939) and M.A. (1942), he did his post-graduate research work under Prof S. N. Dasgupta. He taught philosophy at the University of Calcutta for two decades. Subsequently, he was appointed a UGC Visiting Professor at the universities of Andhra Pradesh, Calcutta and Poona. He remained associated with the activities of the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), Indian Council of Philosophical Research (ICPHR) and the National Institute of Science, Technology and Development Studies (NISTADS) of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) under various capacities. His second wife was the renowned educationist and Tibetologist, Dr. Alaka Majumder Chattopadhyaya (1926–1998).\n\nDebiprasad Chattopadhyaya's work on materialism and scientific method led to his active interactions with the international community of philosophers, historians and Indologists. He collaborated with some of the outstanding western scholars of the 20th century, like Joseph Needham, George Thomson, Bongard Levin and Walter Ruben. He was fellow of the German and USSR Academies of Sciences.\n\nHe died in Calcutta on 8 May 1993.\n\nIn his writings, Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya aimed to illuminate science and materialism in ancient India, and to trace their evolution. While commenting on his work on Lokayata, German indologist Walter Ruben called him a \"thought-reformer\", who was \"conscious of his great responsibility towards his people living in a period of struggle for national awakening and of world-wide fighting for the forces of materialism, progress, humanism and peace against imperialism. He has written this book \"Lokayata: A Study in Ancient Indian Materialism\" against the old fashioned conception that India was and is the land of dreamers and mystics\".\n\nThis study questioned the mainstream view that Indian philosophy's sole concern was the concept of Brahman. \"From the scattered references in the ancient philosophical literature which were completely hostile to the ancient materialist schools, Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya reconstructed the philosophy of Lokayata, which consistently denied the existence of brahman and viewed pratyaksa (perception) as the sole means of knowledge. He demolished the so-called \"interpretation of synthesis\" which sought to combine the diverse philosophical traditions of India to form a ladder that leads to the philosophy of Advaita Vedanta.\n\nBeing a Marxist, Chattopadhyaya's uses the method of historical materialism to study \"the ultimate material basis of the primitive \"deha-vada\" and the primitive rituals related to it\" and to reveal how these could \"be connected with the mode of securing the material means of subsistence\". He also traced \"the course of development this archaic outlook eventually underwent\".\n\nIt was an introductory book that examined Indian philosophy through an interdisciplinary approach, drawing on anthropological, economic and philological studies. The book traced the philosophical development in India from the Vedic period to later Buddhism. In this introductory study, Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya targets another important myth that overshadows the study of Indian philosophy – that of the presupposed predominance of \"shastrartha\" or textual interpretation. He views the development of Indian philosophy as the consequence of real clashes of ideas – \"contradiction constituted the moving force behind the Indian philosophical development\". Dale Riepe in his review of this book says that Chattopadhyaya \"combines the analytic sagacity of Hume with the impatient realism of Lenin\".\n\nThis is yet another provocative critique of the standard accounts of Indian philosophy and religion. This book brings out a coherent historical account of atheism in India. In fact, according to Chattopadhyaya, \"an unbiased survey of the Vedas clearly shows the total absence of religious consciousness in its earlier stage and the Rgveda is full of relics of this stage of thought. Even the world polytheism is misapplied to such an early stage of the Vedic thought\".\n\nIn the Preface, Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya says his purpose in this book is to present \"an analysis of our philosophical traditions from the standpoint of our present philosophical requirements. These requirements, as understood here, are secularism, rationalism and science-orientation\". He once again finds the philosophical development – debates and clashes – in ancient India embedded in the class struggles of the time. He discusses the materialist foundation of Vedic rituals, which he finds similar to the magical belief of controlling the natural forces through yajnas, etc. He shows how these rites and rituals that evolved as primitive scientific endeavours were transformed into superstitions and monopolies in the hands of the oppressors with the advent of class divisions.\n\nThe book also endeavours to demonstrate how Indian philosophy was not any exception to the sharp conflicts between idealism and materialism, which are universally evident in the philosophical traditions of other regions. Further, it considers the role of the law-givers like Manu in establishing the supremacy of the idealist traditions, and how due to the censor and censure anti-idealists like Varahamihira and Brahmagupta worked out their philosophies in distinctive Aesopian language, developing their own modes of camouflaging their ideas.\n\nLike elsewhere, in India too anti-idealists and materialists took practice as the main criterion of truth. Nyaya-Vaisheshikas were most outspoken in this regard, \"after a knowledge is proved true in practice, there remains no doubt about the proof; hence the question of proving does not arise\". On the other hand, the idealists believed in complete separation between theory and practice. They adhered to, in the words of Kumarila Bhatta, the principle of \"bahyartha-sunyatva\" (the unreality of the objects of knowledge), which, according to Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya, formed \"the real pivot of idealism throughout its Indian career\".\n\nThis book is about scientific method in ancient India and how societal divisions of the time shaped the development of science. Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya chooses the field of medicine for the purpose, because, according to him, \"the only discipline that promises to be fully secular and contains clear potentials of the modern understanding of natural science is medicine\".\n\nThe main concentration of the book is to present an analysis of Caraka Samhita, the crucial source book on Indian medicine. According to Chattopadhyaya, \"discarding scripture orientation, they [the Indian physicians] insist on the supreme importance of direct observation of natural phenomena and on the technique of rational processing of the empirical data. They go even to the extent of claiming that the truth of any conclusion thus arrived at is to be tested ultimately by the criterion of practice\". For them, \"everything in nature occurs according to some immutable laws, the body of which is usually called \"svabhava\" in Indian thought\" and \"from the medical viewpoint there can be nothing which is not made of matter\". They even say that \"a substance is called conscious when it is endowed with the sense-organs\". Further, Chattopadhyaya shows: \n\nChattopadhyaya also tries to show in the book, how societal divisions, especially the caste system, which was enforced by the law-givers and their justificatory idealist ideologies, formed obstructions in the way of scientific development in India.\n\nThis book was written in the context of growing state authoritarianism during the Indian Emergency declared by Indira Gandhi, on the one hand, and the upsurge of rightist forces in the form of Jan Sangh, Shiv Sena etc., on the other. Chattopadhyaya opined \"that in these grim and anxious days through which India today is passing, that which holds hope for our future is the growing awareness of our people of socialism being the only way out\". And, \"an essential pre-condition for moving forward to Socialism is the consolidation of Socialist consciousness in its right sense among the Indians today\", for which \"it is imperative to understand and absorb the philosophical views of Lenin\".\n\nThis book is meant to be a \"guide or introduction\" to Lenin's philosophical writings. It seeks \"to lead the readers to the actual study of Lenin, providing them with some clarifications, annotations and summations that they may be useful only for the limited of a preliminary acquaintance with Lenin's philosophical ideas\".\n\nCommunist leader E.M.S. Namboodiripad in his overall appreciative review of the book criticised Chattopadhyaya for not explaining \"in a sufficiently convincing way as to why Lenin thought it necessary to go to Hegel in his later years\", as evident from his \"Philosophical Notebooks of 1914\".\n\nGerald Larson sees Chattopadhyaya's writings on ancient Indian philosophies as the most interesting and sustained Marxist interpretation of Indian thought. Reviewing Chattopadhyaya's writings on Samkhya philosophy he observes, \"Chattopadhyaya proceeds to reconstruct what the original Samkhya position was, claiming that the classical notion did not include Purusha, and that the most important notion in the Samkhya is Prakrti, citing pre-Vedic Tantra traditions of a matriarchal society to be the foundation of original Samkhya.\" But disagreeing with this conclusion of Chattopadhyaya he says, \"To argue... for an archaic agricultural-matriarchal tradition of mother-right and a pastoral-patriarchal tradition of male dominance and then to trace in a direct one-to-one correlation of a Samkhya materialism to the former and a Vedanta idealism to the latter is clearly an oversimplification that reflects Chattopadhyaya's political ideology more than it does India's ancient cultural heritage.\" Concluding the review Larson avers \"what begins as a refreshing anthropological methodology for studying ancient thought and culture is reduced to an ideological perspective designed to show that... private property and the state machinery are not eternal adjuncts to human existence...\" and that \"...the spiritualistic outlook is not innate in man\".\n\nJohannes Quack, in his preface to the book \"Indian Atheism: A Marxist Analysis\", writes, \"This book is based on the awareness that the Indian struggle for socialism today is related to the struggle for the Indian philosophical heritage.\" Chattopadhaya is, he says, convinced that an analysis of philosophical materials of India will lead, \"if rightly followed,\" to Marxism in India. He calls the book the \"most powerful ideological weapon\" to \"destroy the fiction of Indian wisdom being essentially God oriented.\". Reviewing the same book Dale Riepe calls it the most complete study of its kind; \"its special importance lies in its iconoclasm toppling the idols of European and Indian accounts of early Indian religion and philosophy\". He notes that the book ends with \"another 140 pages of text with staggering load of argument that will make rationalists and theists alike somewhat dizzy\". Noticing that Chattopadhyaya's book is markedly different from the mainstream scholarship on Indian philosophy he calls it \"a work almost unique in the history of Indian philosophy\".\n\nIn his book \"Indian Philosophy Since Independence\", Dale Riepe calls Debiprasad's \"Lokayata\" \"a work of originality and world significance...a fully-founded work showing the philosophical implications of historical considerations.\" Chattopadhyaya is a proponent of historical and dialectical materialism, writes Riepe, and Chattopadhyaya's book, according to Riepe, is a classic. Giving an overview of Debiprasad's other books Riepe writes, \"These indications of the herculean efforts of Debiprasad are earnest tokens of his awareness of the great work still to be done for Indian philosophy. Although he has planted almost alone in the Indian fields, others are slowly harvesting the results at home and abroad where his renown is exceeding many of the leading idealists\".\n\nAccording to Chattopadhyaya, states Riepe, \"Buddha looked backwards to the tribal collectives and wanted to revive... the imaginary substance of the tribe...\". According to Dale Riepe, \"Chattopadhyaya claims most of the ancient Indian traditional philosophers were atheists\", and contrasting the approach taken by Debiprasad with the approach taken by followers of modern Western idealism like S.N. Dasgupta, Riepe writes: \n\nThe various publications of Chattopadhyaya on Carvaka/Lokayata have been praised as pioneering and important contributions to the studies by Ramakrishna Bhattacharya. However, Bhattacharya also questions Chattopadhyaya analysis. For example, Ramkrishna Bhattacharya states, \"Chattopadhyaya did not deny Ajita Kesakambali was a materialist, but chose to emphasize that 'Ajita was no less a philosopher of futility and moral collapse than the Buddha, Mahavira, Purana and Pakudha [...]\". Bhattacharya notes that \"Chattopadhyaya brands Ajita's teachings as a philosophy of the graveyard\".\n\nChattopadhyaya's rational reconstruction of the history of Indian materialism in \"Lokayata: A Study in Ancient Indian Materialism\" and other texts, was one of the most significant contributions, states Rajendra Prasad. Chattopadhyaya's pursuit, notes Prasad, was \"a result of much of his commitment to values of scholarship\" as to the \"communist movement\" in India. His efforts to explain materialism and atheism in Indian philosophy in its antiquity, against the old fashioned conception that India was and is the land of dreamers and mystics, required \"tremendous intellectual courage\", yet \"Chattopadhyaya never flinched in the face of isolation in his own profession\".\n\nEndorsing the book \"Lokayata\" Joseph Needham wrote: \"Your book will have a truly treasured place on my shelves. It is truly extraordinary that we should have approached ancient Chinese and ancient Indian civilisations with such similar results...\" About Chattopadhayay's 1977 book, \"Science and Society in Ancient India\", he said: \"I feel that you have entirely proved your case that the Caraka-samhita and the Susruta-samhita have an ambiguous character, which, when dissected, reveals the intense struggle between the theological philosophers on the one hand, and the doctors who strove for a truly scientific view of the world, on the other. It is unmistakably a chapter in the 'warfare of science with religion'...I do feel that your philological and philosophical analysis has been here a really splendid contribution.\"\n\nCommenting on Chattopadhyaya's book \"Lokayata\", Louis Renou wrote: \"The book is of definite value and deserves to be carefully studied by Indologists and sociologists.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53145277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53145277", "title": "Department of Antiquities (Cyprus)", "text": "Department of Antiquities (Cyprus)\n\nThe Department of Antiquities is a government department of the Republic of Cyprus with responsibility for archaeological research and cultural heritage management. It was established in 1935 by the British colonial government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37473718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37473718", "title": "Dorothy Pizer", "text": "Dorothy Pizer\n\nDorothy Pizer or Dorothy Padmore (c.1906 – 22 November 1964) was a British Jewish working-class anti-racist activist, secretary and publishing worker. In the 1940s and 1950s she was the partner, supporter and collaborator of Pan-African activist and Communist George Padmore.\nThe daughter of a tailor who had left school at 15, Dorothy Pizer grew up in a household without books in London's East End. Since she had been too poor to accept a scholarship, her education was limited. Yet she later learnt stenography, became a business secretary, and became fluent in French.\n\nPizer's brother was a member of the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB), and she became involved with the CPGB in the 1930s. Through party contacts she met George Padmore in 1937, and by the end of World War II the pair were living together. She was always treated as Padmore's wife, although they were never formally married, and he had a former wife, Julia Semper. Dorothy supported the couple financially by continuing to work as a secretary during the day. She typed the manuscript of C. L. R. James's book \"World Revolution\" (1937), and also typed manuscripts for her husband.\n\nPublishing was one of the main strategies adopted by black intellectuals in challenging the foundations of British colonial rule, and Pizer's skills enabled her to play an important role in this global political struggle:\n\nFrom 1941 to 1957 the Padmores shared a flat at 22 Cranleigh Street in Camden, London. It became a mecca for visiting pan-Africanists and leftists including Kwame Nkrumah, Eric Williams, Jomo Kenyatta, and Joe Appiah. The Padmores first met Richard Wright and his wife in 1947, and over the next decade the couples often visited each other in London and Paris. In 1953 Dorothy persuaded Wright to visit the Gold Coast, where George had already started advising Kwame Nkrumah in his plans for its independence as Ghana.\n\nDorothy herself visited the Gold Coast for the first time in 1954, and in 1957 the Padmores moved to Ghana permanently as special advisers to Kwame Nkrumah. At the time of her husband's premature death in 1959, Dorothy Padmore was visiting W. E. B. Du Bois and his wife Shirley in New York. Returning to Accra for her husband's state funeral, in which his ashes were buried at Christiansborg Castle, she continued to live in Ghana as an adviser to Nkrumah. She planned but never completed a biography of her husband, collecting notes and papers relating to him. On 22 November 1964, aged 58, she died in Accra from a heart attack. After her death, Nkrumah took some of the papers that she had collected relating to her husband, and the papers subsequently made their way to Howard University.\n\nA plaque commemorating George Padmore was put up at their flat in 2011. Selma James, the widow of C. L. R. James, honoured Dorothy as well as George at the unveiling: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5164148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5164148", "title": "Dossiers Secrets d'Henri Lobineau", "text": "Dossiers Secrets d'Henri Lobineau\n\nThe Dossiers Secrets d'Henri Lobineau (\"Secret Files of Henri Lobineau\"), supposedly compiled by Philippe Toscan du Plantier, is a 27-page document which was deposited in the Bibliothèque nationale de France on 27 April 1967. The document purports to represent a part of the history of the Priory of Sion, and is widely considered to be a forgery created by Pierre Plantard and Philippe de Chérisey. Thirteen of the 27 pages of the document are taken from another document attributed to \"Henri Lobineau\" dating from 1964, also thought to have been authored by Plantard, called \"Généalogie des Rois Mérovingiens\" (\"Genealogy of the Merovingian Kings\"). This document contains genealogy diagrams which apparently show Plantard to be a descendant of the Merovingian king Dagobert II.\n\n\"Dossiers Secrets d'Henri Lobineau\" comprises the following material (along with the 13 pages taken from \"Généalogie des Rois Mérovingiens\"):\n\n\nThe documents were used as source material by Henry Lincoln (who appeared to be unaware that they were disputed as forgeries) for a series of BBC Two documentaries in the 1970s. Lincoln and two co-authors, Richard Leigh and Michael Baigent, again used the \"Dossiers Secrets\" as source material for the controversial 1982 publication of \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\". Elements of this work were later used by Dan Brown as sources for his successful novel \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20898956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20898956", "title": "Frank W. Blackmar", "text": "Frank W. Blackmar\n\nFrank Wilson Blackmar (November 3, 1854 – March 30, 1931) was an American sociologist, historian and educator. He served as the 9th President of the American Sociological Society (now known as the American Sociological Association).\n\nHe was born on November 3, 1854 in Springfield Township, Erie County, Pennsylvania.\n\nBefore earning a Ph.D. in 1889 at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, he was a professor of mathematics in the University of the Pacific (1881-1886). After he became a professor of history and sociology at the University of Kansas. Ten years later he was made professor of sociology and economics at the same university. He became active in the university extension movement throughout the western United States, writing and lecturing on history, sociology and economics. He was elected dean when the graduate school of the University of Kansas was organized in 1896.\nHe wrote several books of local history, handbooks of economy and some political pamphlets.\n\nHe died on March 30, 1931 in Lawrence, Kansas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3369681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3369681", "title": "Fénius Farsaid", "text": "Fénius Farsaid\n\nFénius Farsaid (also Phoeniusa, Phenius, Féinius; Farsa, Farsaidh, many variant spellings) is a legendary king of Scythia who shows up in different versions of Irish mythology. He was the son of Boath, a son of Magog. According to some traditions, he invented the Ogham alphabet and the Gaelic language.\n\nAccording to recensions M and A of the \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\", Fénius and his son Nél journeyed to the Tower of Babel (in recension B, it is Rifath Scot son of Gomer instead). Nél, who was trained in many languages, married Scota, daughter of Pharaoh Cingris of Egypt, producing their son Goidel Glas.\n\nIn the \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\" (11th century), he is said to be one of the 72 chieftains who built Nimrod's Tower of Babel, but travelled to Scythia after the tower collapsed.\n\nAccording to the Auraicept na n-Éces, Fenius journeyed from Scythia together with Goídel mac Ethéoir, Íar mac Nema and a retinue of 72 scholars. They came to the plain of Shinar to study the confused languages at Nimrod's tower. Finding that the speakers had already dispersed, Fenius sent his scholars to study them, staying at the tower, coordinating the effort. After ten years, the investigations were complete, and Fenius created \"in Bérla tóbaide\" \"the selected language\", taking the best of each of the confused tongues, which he called \"Goídelc\", Goidelic, after Goídel mac Ethéoir. He also created extensions of \"Goídelc\", called \"Bérla Féne\", after himself, \"Íarmberla\", after Íar mac Nema, and others, and the \"Beithe-luis-nuin\" (the Ogham) as a perfected writing system for his languages. The names he gave to the letters were those of his 25 best scholars.\n\nThe Auraicept claims that Fenius Farsaidh discovered four alphabets, the Hebrew, Greek and Latin ones, and finally the Ogham, and portrays the Ogham as the most perfected because it was discovered last.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3245483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3245483", "title": "Geographical renaming", "text": "Geographical renaming\n\nGeographical renaming is the changing of the name of a geographical feature or area. This can range from the change of a street name to a change to the name of a country. Some names are changed locally but the new names are not recognised by other countries, especially when there is a difference in language. Other names may not be officially recognised but remain in common use.\nMany places have different names in different languages, and a change of language in official or general use has often resulted in what is arguably a change of name. \nThere are many reasons to undertake renaming, with political motivation being the primary cause; for example many places in the former Soviet Union and its satellites were renamed to honour Stalin. Sometimes a place reverts to its former name (see for example de-Stalinization). One of the most common reasons for a country changing its name is newly acquired independence. When borders are changed, sometimes due to a country splitting or two countries joining together, the names of the relevant areas can change. This, however, is more the creation of a different entity than an act of geographical renaming.\n\nOther more unusual reasons for renaming have included:\n\nA change might see a completely different name being adopted or may only be a slight change in spelling.\n\nIn some cases established institutions preserve the old names of the renamed places in their names, such as the Pusan National University in Busan, South Korea; the Peking University in Beijing; Bombay Stock Exchange, IIT Bombay and the Bombay High Court in Mumbai; University of Madras, Madras Stock Exchange, the Madras High Court, and IIT Madras in Chennai; the University of Malaya, Keretapi Tanah Melayu, in Malaysia; and SWAPO (South West Africa People's Organization), the ruling party of Namibia.\n\nOften the older name will persist in colloquial expressions. For example, the dish known in English as \"Peking duck\" retained that name even when the Chinese capital changed its transliteration to \"Beijing\".\n\nChanges in romanisation systems can result in minor or major changes in spelling in the Roman alphabet for geographical entities, even without any change in name or spelling in the local alphabet or other writing system. Names in non-Roman characters can also be spelled very differently when Romanised in different European languages.\n\nChina developed and adopted the pinyin romanisation system in February 1958 in place of previous systems such as the postal romanization and Wade–Giles. Many Chinese geographical entities (and associated entities named after geographical names) thus had their English names changed. The changes sometimes appear drastic, since it is sometimes the case that the former romanisations were derived from Cantonese—the common language in British-held Hong Kong—while the newer romanisations are derived entirely from Mandarin. Pinyin was adopted by the International Organization for Standardisation in 1982 and officially adopted in Singapore (resulting in several geographical name changes of its own). However it is usually not applied in the autonomous regions of the PRC (e.g.: Lhasa, Ürümqi, Hohhot, Xigazê, Ili, Altay, Kaxgar, Hulunbuir, Erenhot, with a notable exception being place names in Ningxia, whose native Hui people speak Mandarin as their native language) and has not resulted in any geographical name change in the SARs of Hong Kong and Macau, and is adopted only in parts of Taiwan, particularly within Taipei and other Kuomintang controlled cities and counties, in a recent push to adopt Pinyin by the Kuomintang government.\n\nExamples of changes:\n\nIn the People's Republic of China\n\nIn the Republic of China (Taiwan)\n\nIn Singapore\n\nThe introduction of the Revised Romanization of Korean in place of the McCune–Reischauer system in 7 July 2000 by the South Korean government has resulted in a string of changes to geographical names. The system is not used by North Korea. Examples of changes include:\n\nFor geographical entities with multiple pre-existing names in one or more languages, an exonym or endonym may gradually be substituted and used in the English language.\n\n\n\nThis is a list of internationally important or significant renamings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56705065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56705065", "title": "Greek coinage of Italy and Sicily", "text": "Greek coinage of Italy and Sicily\n\nGreek coinage of Italy and Sicily originated from local Italiote and Siceliote who formed numerous city states. These Hellenistic communities descended from Greek migrants. Southern Italy was so thoroughly hellenized that it was known as the Magna Graecia. Each of the polities struck their own coinage.\n\nTaras (or Tarentum) was among the most prominent city states.\n\nBy the second century BC some of these Greek coinages evolved under Roman rule, and can be classified as the first Roman provincial currencies.\n\nA common theme in the Italiote coinage was to include portraits of gods or other mythological figures. Some featured animals and other symbols. For instance, the coins of Sybaris (Thurium) portrayed goddess Minerva. Inhabitants of Kroton (Crotone) adorned their coinage with images of Hercules. The city of Posidonia (Paestum) had received its name from Greek god Poseidon whose portrait they struck in their coinage. The city was founded by Sybarite colonists, and observes of Posidonian coinage included a symbol of their parent city, the bull. Taras, the most prosperous city state, struck coinage with dolphins and seahorses. The winged seahorse refers to Poseidon. A certain unusual coin from Neapolis (Naples) portrayed a bull with a human face. One theory for its origin is that it may have celebrated some sort of an alliance with the Romans. The city of Gelas in Sicily was founded by Rhodian settlers. It was originally known as Lindii after their home town Lindos, but the city was renamed after the river Gelas. They struck coinage with depictions of the local river god.\n\nSome tyrants in Magna Graecia advertised their victories in the Olympic Games by striking coinage that referred to these specific achievements.\n\nStyle of figures in coins can be compared to pottery from the region. This gives clues about when the pottery in question was made. Furthermore, ages of the cities such Sybaris are well known.\n\nThe weights of silver coinage were inherited from Corinthian merchants. Commercial ties between Corinth and Taras were tight-knit. This brought the Persian weight standard for gold coinage to Magna Graecia. Phocaean standard had also been in use in the region. Later, Aeginetic standard appeared and was briefly used. It had been brought to southern Italy by Chalcidian settlers. Cities in the region eventually adopted the Attic standard.\n\nSicilian (or Macedonian) talent was used for gold rather than a heavier talent used in mainland Greece.\n\nThe region of Magna Graecia included originally Greek cities such as Cumae, Herakleia, Kaulonia, Kroton, Lokroi, Neapolis, Metapontum, Sybaris, Taras, Thurii and Rhegion.\n\nThe cities of Taras, Metapontum, Sybaris and Kroton were founded between c. 750 BC – c. 650 BC, and it is likely that they brought their knowledge of recently invented minting straight from their home cities.\n\nCoins of Taras from the 4th century BC picture a mounted cavalryman equipped with a shield. At that time no other Greek military equipped cavalry with shields. It can be deduced that the influence of Taras may have been responsible for the spread of shielded cavalry to other Greek polities.\n\nThroughout the Greek world it was common that weight standards of Hellenistic coinage decreased in weight over time. One explanation is that, as worn money circulated back to the issuing state, the worn coins were recoined. More noticeable reductions in weight can be occasionally attributed to a single event. During the Pyrrhic War (280–275 BC) coinage of Taras decreased in size noticeably, and the war also impacted coinage of certain other Greek polities in Italy. Silver coinage of Taras, Kroton, Herakleia, Thurii and Metapontum were 7.9 g in weight before the war, but decreased in weight and size to 6.6 g. Subsequent issue of Tarantine coins also suffered from debasement of five percent. This downward evolution was significantly affected by the financial strain caused by warfare for the Greek polities. For instance, countering the expansion of Rome caused considerable pressure for the Italiote city states.\n\nNaxos was the oldest Greek city on the island. Chalcidean settlers founded the city in 735 BC. It was also the first city on the island to issue coinage. The city grew rich from producing wine, and it honoured the god Dionysos on their first coinage. Satyrs were another common theme on their coinage. Katana, founded in 730 BC by colonists moving out of the city of Naxos, was known for its masterful engravers whose work resulted in very fine coinage. Dionysios I, tyrant of Syracuse, destroyed the city of Naxos in 403 BC. Survivors from Naxos founded the city of Tauromenion in 358 BC.\n\nHimera and Zancle were two other early issuers of coinage on the island of Sicily. They were also founded by Chalcidean settlers.\n\nDuring the 4th century BC coinage became scarce. Punic coins and Corinthian staters were the principal currencies in circulation. Carthaginian expansion in Sicily caused this disruption of the local monetary system. However, native Sicilian coinage lost even more ground during the 3rd century BC and largely disappeared. The Second Punic War was the cause of this latter disruption. Only rarely bronze coins were struck. The Second Punic War had similar effects in the Southern Italy.\n\nIn the 6th century BC Syracuse began minting their own coinage. They used Attic-Euboic weight standard, and it was rapidly adopted by the other polities of Sicily. In the 5th century a strong government and widely militarized society ruled by tyrants left behind abundant coinage.\n\nBy 210 BC Rome was controlling all of the Greek cities in the region. At the beginning of the next century a clear Roman influence on the Greek coinage can be noticed. Both iconography and style of the coins had changed. Greek coinage from this period can be classified as the first instances of Roman provincial currency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "943889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=943889", "title": "Heinrich Graetz", "text": "Heinrich Graetz\n\nHeinrich Graetz (; 31 October 1817 – 7 September 1891) was amongst the first historians to write a comprehensive history of the Jewish people from a Jewish perspective.\n\nBorn Tzvi Hirsh Graetz to a butcher family in Xions (now Książ Wielkopolski), Grand Duchy of Posen, in Prussia (now in Poland), he attended Breslau University, but since Jews at that time were barred from receiving Ph.D.s there, he obtained his doctorate from the University of Jena. After 1845 he was principal of the Jewish Orthodox school of the Breslau community, and later taught history at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Breslau (now Wrocław, Poland). His magnum opus \"History of the Jews\" was quickly translated into other languages and ignited worldwide interest in Jewish history. In 1869 the University of Breslau (Wrocław) granted him the title of Honorary Professor. In 1888 he was appointed an Honorary Member of the Spanish Royal Academy of Sciences.\n\nGraetz received his first instruction at Zerkov, where his parents had relocated, and in 1831 was sent to Wolstein, where he attended the yeshivah up to 1836, acquiring secular knowledge by private study. The \"Neunzehn Briefe von Ben Uziel\" (see Samson Raphael Hirsch) made a powerful impression on him; and he resolved to prepare himself for academic studies in order to champion the cause of Orthodox Judaism. His first intention was to go to Prague, to which place he was attracted by the fame of its old yeshivah and the facilities afforded by the university. Being rejected by the immigration officers, he returned to Zerkov and wrote to Samson Raphael Hirsch, then rabbi of Oldenburg, intimating his desire. Hirsch offered him a home in his house. Graetz arrived there on May 8, 1837, and spent three years with his patron as a pupil, companion, and amanuensis. In 1840 he accepted a tutorship with a family at Ostrowo, and in October 1842 he entered the University of Breslau.\n\nAt that time the controversy between Orthodoxy and Reform Judaism was at its height, and Graetz, true to the principles which he had imbibed from Hirsch, began his literary career by writing contributions to the \"Orient,\" edited by Julius Fürst, in which he severely criticized the Reform party, as well as Geiger's text-book of the Mishnah (\"Orient,\" 1844). These contributions and his championship of the Conservative cause during the time of the rabbinical conferences made him popular with the Orthodox party. This was especially the case when he agitated for a vote of confidence to be given to Zecharias Frankel after he had left the Frankfurt conference because of the stand which the majority had taken on the question of the Hebrew language. After Graetz had obtained his degree of Ph.D. from the University of Jena (his dissertation being \"De Auctoritate et Vi Quam Gnosis in Judaismum Habuerit,\" 1845; published a year later under the title \"Gnosticismus und Judenthum\"), he was made principal of a religious school founded by the Conservatives in Breslau. In the same year he was invited to preach a trial sermon before the congregation of Gleiwitz, Silesia, but failed completely.\n\nHe remained in Breslau until 1848, when, upon the advice of a friend, he went to Vienna, purposing to follow a journalistic career. On the way he stopped at Nikolsburg, where Samson Raphael Hirsch was residing as Moravian chief rabbi. Hirsch, who then contemplated the establishment of a rabbinical seminary, employed Graetz temporarily as teacher at Nikolsburg, and afterward gave him a position as principal of the Jewish school in the neighboring city of Lundenburg (1850). In October 1850, Graetz married Marie Monasch, the daughter of the printer and publisher B. L. Monasch, of Krotoschin. It seems that Hirsch's departure from Nikolsburg had an influence on Graetz's position; for in 1852 the latter left Lundenburg and went to Berlin, where he delivered a course of lectures on Jewish history before rabbinical students. They do not seem to have been successful. Meantime his advocacy of Frankel's course had brought him into close contact with the latter, for whose magazine he frequently wrote articles; and accordingly in 1854 he was appointed a member of the teaching staff of the seminary at Breslau, over which Frankel presided. In this position he remained up to his death, teaching history and Bible exegesis, with a preparatory course on the Talmud. In 1869 the government conferred upon him the title of professor, and thenceforward he lectured at Breslau University.\n\nIn 1872 Graetz went to Palestine in the company of his friend Gottschalck Levy of Berlin, for the purpose of studying the scenes of the earliest period of Jewish history, which he treated in volumes one and two of his history, published in 1874-76; these volumes brought that great work to a close. While in Palestine, he gave the first impetus to the foundation of an orphan asylum there. He also took a great interest in the progress of the Alliance Israélite Universelle, and participated as a delegate in the convention assembled at Paris in 1878 in the interest of the Romanian Jews. Graetz's name was prominently mentioned in the anti-Semitic controversy, especially after Treitschke had published his \"Ein Wort über Unser Judenthum\" (1879–1880), in which the latter, referring to the eleventh volume of the history, accused Graetz of hatred of Christianity and of bias against the German people, quoting him as a proof that the Jews could never assimilate themselves to their surroundings.\n\nThis arraignment of Graetz had a decided effect upon the public. Even friends of the Jews, like Mommsen, and advocates of Judaism within the Jewish fold expressed their condemnation of Graetz's passionate language. It was due to this comparative unpopularity that Graetz was not invited to join the commission created by the union of German Jewish congregations (Deutsch-Israelitischer Gemeindebund) for the promotion of the study of the history of the Jews of Germany (1885). On the other hand, his fame spread to foreign countries; and the promoters of the Anglo-Jewish Exhibition invited him in 1887 to open the Exhibition with a lecture. His seventieth birthday was the occasion for his friends and disciples to bear testimony to the universal esteem in which he was held among them; and a volume of scientific essays was published in his honor (\"Jubelschrift zum 70. Geburtstage des Prof. Dr. H. Graetz,\" Breslau, 1887). A year later (27 October 1888) he was appointed an honorary member of the Spanish Academy, to which, as a token of his gratitude, he dedicated the third edition of the eighth volume of his history.\n\nAs usual he spent the summer of 1891 in Carlsbad; but alarming symptoms of heart disease forced him to discontinue his use of the waters. He went to Munich to visit his son Leo, a professor at the university of that city, and died there after a brief illness. He was buried in Breslau. Besides Leo, Graetz left three sons and one daughter.\n\nGraetz is chiefly known as the Jewish historian, although he did considerable work in the field of exegesis also. His \"Geschichte der Juden\" superseded all former works of its kind, notably that of Jost, in its day a very remarkable production; and it has been translated into many languages. The fourth volume, beginning with the period following the destruction of Jerusalem, was published first. It appeared in 1853; but the publication was not a financial success, and the publisher refused to continue it. However, the publication society Institut zur Förderung der Israelitischen Litteratur, founded by Ludwig Philippson, had just come into existence, and it undertook the publication of the subsequent volumes, beginning with the third, which covered the period from the death of Judas Maccabeus to the destruction of the Temple of Jerusalem. This was published in 1856 and was followed by the fifth, after which the volumes appeared in regular succession up to the eleventh, which was published in 1870 and brought the history down to 1848, with which year the author closed, not wishing to include living persons.\n\nIn spite of this reserve he gravely offended the Liberal party, which inferred, from articles that Graetz contributed to the \"Monatsschrift\", that he would show little sympathy for the Reform element, and therefore refused to publish the volume unless the manuscript was submitted for examination. This Graetz refused to do; and the volume therefore appeared without the support of the publication society. Volumes i. and ii. were published, as stated above, after Graetz had returned from Israel. These volumes, of which the second practically consisted of two, appeared in 1872-75, and completed the stupendous undertaking. For more popular purposes Graetz published later an abstract of his work under the title \"Volksthümliche Geschichte der Juden\", in which he brought the history down to his own time.\n\nThe fourth volume of the \"History of the Jews\" received a detailed review by Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch in a series of essays in Vols. II-IV (1855-8) of his monthly journal \"Jeschurun\". In these essays, a 203-page masterpiece of objective critique, Hirsch proves beyond doubt that Graetz is guilty of the utmost sloppiness of scholarship: e.g., Graetz omitted the second halves of quotations which, if quoted in their entirety, flatly contradict his thesis. Graetz claims, on the basis of one or two quotations from certain Talmudic sages, that they \"were wont to do\" something - despite sources explicitly to the contrary - and goes on to develop these suppositions into theories affecting the entire Torah tradition. Graetz fabricates dates, rearranges generations, speaks of \"most of these laws\" when in fact his description applies, even by a charitable interpretation, to fewer than half, and in many other ways rewrites the Talmud to support his theses and facilitate the flow of his history.\n\nA translation into English was begun by S. Tuska, who in 1867 published in Cincinnati a translation of part of vol. ix. under the title \"Influence of Judaism on the Protestant Reformation\". The fourth volume was translated by James K. Gutheim under the auspices of the American Jewish Publication Society, the title being \"History of the Jews from the Down-fall of the Jewish State to the Conclusion of the Talmud\" (New York, 1873).\n\nA five-volume English edition was published in London in 1891-92 as \"History of the Jews from the Earliest Times to the Present Day\" (5 vols.; edited and in part translated by Bella Löwy). According to a review in the January–April 1893 edition of \"Quarterly Review\", it \"was passing through the press in its English version, and had received the author's final touches, when Graetz died in September 1891\". In 1919, the Jordan Publishing Co. of New York published a two-volume \"improved\" edition, with a supplement of recent events by Dr. Max Raisin. Rabbi A. B. Rhine provided the English translation.\n\nGraetz's historical studies, extending back to Biblical times, naturally led him into the field of exegesis. As early as the fifties he had written in the \"Monatsschrift\" essays dealing with exegetical subjects, as \"Fälschungen in dem Texte der LXX.\" (1853) and \"Die Grosse Versammlung: Keneset Hagedola \" (1857); and with his translation of and commentaries on Ecclesiastes and Canticles (Breslau, 1871) he began the publication of separate exegetical works. A commentary and translation of the Psalms followed (ib. 1882-83). Toward the end of his life he planned an edition of the whole Hebrew Bible with his own textual emendations. A prospectus of this work appeared in 1891. Shortly before the author's death, a part of it, Isaiah and Jeremiah, was issued in the form in which the author had intended to publish it; the rest contained only the textual notes, not the text itself. It was edited, under the title \"Emendationes in Plerosque Sacræ Scripturæ Veteris Testamenti Libros,\" by W. Bacher (Breslau, 1892–94).\n\nThe most characteristic features of Graetz's exegesis are his bold textual emendations, which often substitute something conjectural for the Masoretic text, although he always carefully consulted the ancient versions. He also determined with too much certainty the period of a Biblical book or a certain passage, when at best there could only be a probable hypothesis. Thus his hypothesis of the origin of Ecclesiastes at the time of Herod the Great, while brilliant in its presentation, is hardly tenable. His textual emendations display fine tact, and of late they have become more and more respected and adopted.\n\nGraetz's activity was not limited to his special field. He enriched other branches of Jewish science, and wrote here and there on general literature or on questions of the day. To the field of general literature belongs also his essay on \"Shylock,\" published in the \"Monatsschrift\", 1880. In the early years of the anti-Semitic movement he wrote, besides the articles in which he defended himself against the accusations of Treitschke, an anonymous essay entitled \"Briefwechsel einer Englischen Dame über Judenthum und Semitismus,\" Stuttgart, 1883. To supplement his lectures on Jewish literature he published an anthology of neo-Hebraic poetry under the title \"Leḳeṭ Shoshannim\" (Breslau, 1862), in which he committed the mistake of reading the verses of a poem horizontally instead of vertically, which mistake Geiger mercilessly criticized (\"Jüdische Zeitschrift für Wissenschaft und Leben\", 1, p. 68-75). A very meritorious work was his edition of the Jerusalem Talmud in one volume (Krotoschin, 1866). A bibliography of his works has been given by Israel Abrahams in \"The Jewish Quarterly Review\" (4, p. 194-203).\n\nGraetz's essay \"Die Verjüngung des jüdischen Stammes,\" in Wertheimer-Kompert's \"Jahrbuch für Israeliten\", vol. x., Vienna, 1863 (reprinted with comments by Th. Zlocisti, in \"Jüdischer Volks-Kalender\", p. 99, Brünn, 1903), caused a suit to be brought against him by the clerical anti-Semite Sebastian Brunner for libeling the Jewish religion. As Graetz was not an Austrian subject, the suit was nominally brought against Leopold Kompert as editor, and the latter was fined (30 December 1863).\n\nGraetz had interpreted Isaiah chapters 52 and 53 to refer not to the personal Messiah, but rather to the entire people Israel. Graetz and Kompert were brought to court in Vienna for publishing ideas that were heretical to the Catholic faith, in addition to contradicting Jewish tradition. Viennese rabbis Isaak Noah Mannheimer and Lazar Horowitz defended Graetz, and Azriel Hildesheimer criticized them for doing so; Isaac Hirsch Weiss published a pamphlet entitled \"Neẓaḥ Yisrael\" in support of their testimony.\n\nThis case, known as the \"Kompert Affair,\" was important in defining the wedge between Orthodox Judaism and the nascent Conservative Judaism championed by the likes of Graetz and Zecharias Frankel. Thus, within the Jewish fold the lawsuit also had its consequences, as the Orthodox raised against Graetz the accusation of heresy because he had denied the personal character of the prophetic Messiah.\n\nGraetz's history became very popular and influential in its time. The material for Jewish history being so varied, the sources so scattered in the literatures of all nations, and the chronological sequence so often interrupted, made the presentation of this history as a whole a very difficult undertaking; and it can not be denied that Graetz performed his task with consummate skill, that he mastered most of the details while not losing sight of the whole. Another reason for the popularity of the work is its sympathetic treatment. This history of the Jews is not written by a cool observer, but by a warm-hearted Jew. On the other hand, some of these commendable features are at the same time shortcomings. \n\nSome characterize Graetz's main elements of Jewish experience through the ages to be 'suffering and spiritual scholarship', while later Jewish scholarly works like Salo W. Baron's 1937 \"A Social and Religious History of the Jews\", opposed the view of Jewish history as being 'all darkness and no light' and sought to restore balance, by writing a social history. Baron strove to integrate the religious dimension of Jewish history into a full picture of Jewish life and to integrate the history of Jews into the wider history of the eras and societies in which they lived. Baron brought very distinctive views to his scholarship. He inveighed against what he termed the \"lachrymose conception of Jewish history,\" sometimes identified with Heinrich Graetz. In a 1975 interview Baron said: \"Suffering is part of the destiny [of the Jews], but so is repeated joy as well as ultimate redemption.\" According to Arthur Hertzberg, Baron was writing social history, insisting that spiritual creativity and the political situation were all borne by a living society and its changing forms,\"\n\n\nAbrahams, as above;\n\n"}
{"id": "3404661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3404661", "title": "Hijri year", "text": "Hijri year\n\nThe Hijri year () or era ( \"at-taqwīm al-hijrī\") is the era used in the Islamic lunar calendar, which begins its count from the Islamic New Year in 622 AD/CE. During that year, Muhammad and his followers migrated from Mecca to Yathrib (now Medina). This event, known as the Hijra, is commemorated in Islam for its role in the founding of the first Muslim community (\"ummah\").\n\nIn the West, this era is most commonly denoted as AH ( , \"in the year of the Hijra\") in parallel with the Christian (AD), Common (CE) and Jewish eras (AM) and can similarly be placed before or after the date. In Muslim countries, it is also commonly abbreviated H (\"Hijra\") from its Arabic abbreviation \"hāʾ\" (). Years prior to AH 1 are reckoned in English as BH (\"Before the Hijra\"), which should follow the date.\n\nBecause the Islamic lunar calendar has only 354 or 355 days in its year, it slowly rotates within the Gregorian year. The year 2018 AD corresponds to the Islamic years 1439 – 1440 AH.\n\nThe Hijri era is calculated according to the Islamic lunar calendar and not the Julian or Gregorian solar one. It thus does not begin on January 1, 1 CE, but on the first day of the month of Muharram which occurred in 622 CE. Its Julian equivalent was April 19 but it is sometimes mistakenly placed on July 16. The error derives from the tabular Islamic calendar which was devised by later Islamic astronomers. This reckons time backwards according to the lunar calendar, which causes it to miss the three intercalary months (about 88 days) added to the then-lunisolar calendar between the time of the Hijra and AH 10, when Muhammad is recorded as having received a revelation prohibiting their use.\n\nThe date of the Hijra itself did not form the Islamic New Year. Instead, the system continues the earlier ordering of the months with the Hijra occurring around the 8th day of Rabi al-Awwal, 66 days into the first year.\n\nBy the age of Muhammad, there was already an Arabian lunar calendar, with named months. Likewise, the years of its calendar used conventional names rather than numbers: for example, the year of the birth of Muhammad and of Ammar ibn Yasir (570 CE) was known as the \"Year of the Elephant\". The first year of the Hijra (622-23 CE) was named the \"Permission to Travel\" in this calendar.\n\n17 years after the Hijra, a complaint from Abu Musa Ashaari prompted the caliph Umar to abolish the practice of named years and to establish a new calendar era. Rejected proposals included dating from the year of Muhammad's birth or death. Tradition credits ʿAli with the proposal to date from the year during which the Muslims established a new community (Ummah) in Medina. The order of the months within the calendar was then debated. Rejected proposals included Rajab, which had been a sacred month in the pre-Islamic period; Ramadan, which is a sacred month for Muslims; and Dhu al-Hijjah, the month of the Hajj. Tradition credits Othman with the successful proposal, simply continuing the order of the months that had already been established, beginning with Muharram. Adoption of this calendar was then enforced by Umar.\n\nDifferent \"approximate\" conversion formulas between the Gregorian (AD or CE) and Islamic calendars (AH) are possible:\n\nor\n\nNevertheless, as the Islamic year does not begin 1 January there is no strict correspondence between years of the two eras, e. g. 2015 CE is 1436/1437 AH, while 1436 AH is 2014/2015 CE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8052091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8052091", "title": "Hugh of Fleury", "text": "Hugh of Fleury\n\nHugh of Fleury (Hugo Floriacensis, Hugo a Santa Maria) (d. not before 1118) was a French Benedictine monk and ecclesiastical writer. He is known only by his works. \n\n\nHe is frequently misidentified as a different Hugh of Fleury, who became Abbot of Canterbury and died in 1124. \n\n"}
{"id": "16723782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16723782", "title": "Jackshaft", "text": "Jackshaft\n\nA jackshaft, also called a \"countershaft\", is a common mechanical design component used to transfer or synchronize rotational force in a machine. A jackshaft is often just a short stub with supporting bearings on the ends and two pulleys, gears, or cranks attached to it. In general, a jackshaft is any shaft that is used as an intermediary transmitting power from a driving shaft to a driven shaft.\n\nThe oldest uses of the term \"jackshaft\" appear to involve shafts that were intermediate between water wheels or stationary steam engines and the line shafts of 19th century mills. In these early sources from New England mills in 1872 and 1880, the term \"jack shaft\" always appears in quotes. Another 1872 author wrote \"Gear wheels are used in England to transmit the power of the engine to what is usually called the jack shaft.\"\nBy 1892, the quotes were gone, but the use remained the same.\n\nThe pulleys on the jackshafts of mills or power plants were frequently connected to the shaft with clutches. For example, in the 1890s, the generating room of the Virginia Hotel in Chicago had two Corliss engines and five dynamos, linked through a jackshaft. Clutches on the jackshaft pulleys allowed any or all of the dynamos to be driven by either or both of the engines. With the advent of chain-drive vehicles, the term \"jackshaft\" was generally applied to the final intermediate shaft in the drive train, either a chain driven shaft driving pinions that directly engaged teeth on the inside of the rims of the drive wheels, or the output shaft of the transmission/differential that is linked by chain to the drive wheels.\n\nOne of the first uses of the term \"jackshaft\" in the context of railroad equipment was in an 1890 patent application by Samuel Mower. In his electric-motor driven railroad truck, the motor was geared to a jackshaft mounted between the side frames. A sliding Dog clutch inside the jackshaft was used to select one of several gear ratios on the chain drive to the driven axle. Later railroad jackshafts were generally connected to the driving wheels using side rods; see Jackshaft (locomotive) for details.\nThe term \"countershaft\" is somewhat older. In 1828, the term was used to refer to an intermediate horizontal shaft in a gristmill driven through gearing by the waterwheel and driving the millstones through bevel gears. An 1841 textbook used the term to refer to a short shaft driven by a belt from the line shaft and driving the spindle of a lathe through additional belts. The countershaft and the lathe spindle each carried cones of different-diameter pulleys for speed control. In 1872, this definition was given: \"The term countershaft is applied to all shafts driven from the main line <nowiki>[shaft]</nowiki> when placed at or near the machines to be driven ...\"\nModern jackshafts and countershafts are often hidden inside large machinery as components of the larger overall device.\nIn farm equipment, a spinning output shaft on the rear of the vehicle is commonly referred to as the \"Power Take-Off\" or PTO, and the power-transfer shaft that is connected to it is commonly called a \"PTO shaft\", but is also a jackshaft.\n\n"}
{"id": "17767727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17767727", "title": "Jarl Gallén", "text": "Jarl Gallén\n\nJarl Wilhelm Erik Gallén, born 23 May 1908 in Helsinki, died 27 March 1990 in Helsinki, was a Finnish historian and Swedish-speaking professor in history at Helsinki University 1964-75.\n\nGallén's special field was the Middle Ages, particularly the Dominican Order's history in the Nordic counties, but he also wrote about the modern history of war. His most noticed work is about the treaty of Nöteborg and the medieval eastern frontier of Finland \"Nöteborgsfreden och Finlands medeltida östgräns\" (1968).\n\nOne of Gallén's thesis is that he holds it as unlikely that the Swedes made a crusade to Finland 1249-50 from a political point of view, because of a serious power struggle with Norway at the time. The second crusade he dates to the years of 1238 or 1239, which is more likely because that the papal bulla of crusade stems from 1237.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54198231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54198231", "title": "Jing-shen Tao", "text": "Jing-shen Tao\n\nJing-shen Tao (born 1933) is professor emeritus of Chinese history at University of Arizona and Correspondence Research Fellow at Academia Sinica who specializes in medieval Chinese/Inner Asian history, particularly the Song dynasty, Liao dynasty, and Jin dynasty (1115–1234).\n\nHis father was a major scholar-politician during Republic of China (1912–49). Jing-shen Tao was born in mainland China and moved to Taiwan in 1949. Taiwanese author Kuo Cheng is his nephew.\n\n"}
{"id": "34011111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34011111", "title": "Judith M. Bennett", "text": "Judith M. Bennett\n\nJudith MacKenzie Bennett is an American historian, Emerita Professor of History and John R. Hubbard Chair in British History at the University of Southern California. Bennett writes and teaches about medieval Europe, specifically focusing on gender, women's history, and rural peasants.\n\nBennett studied at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts, before completing an MA and PhD in Medieval Studies at the University of Toronto. She was awarded her doctorate in 1981. She subsequently worked at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill from 1981 to 2005, before moving to the University of Southern California.\n\nShe has published extensively on the history of late medieval England, particularly on the history of women and feminist approaches to medieval history. She has authored and edited nine books and over 30 articles and chapters on medieval women, women's work, and feminist history, as well as widely used medieval history text, \"Medieval Europe: A Short History\" (McGraw Hill). In her influential 2006 book, \"History Matters: Patriarchy and the Challenge of Feminism\", Bennett argued for the importance of feminist approaches to history and the role of \"longue durée\" perspectives in understanding the 'patriarchal equilibrium' that has defined the history of women's experiences over multiple historical periods. This 'patriarchal equilibrium' is characterised by Bennett as a lack of transformation in women's status in comparison to that of men, despite changes over time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7722787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7722787", "title": "Kahu-Jo-Darro", "text": "Kahu-Jo-Darro\n\nKahu-Jo-Darro is ancient Buddhist archaeological site near Mirpurkhas, Pakistan. Excavations revealed a Buddhist stupa from the site. The ancient site is spread over .\n\nGeneral John Jacob, the acting British Commissioner in Sindh was first to be attracted to the site in the 19th century. His excavations found a vase of fine earthenware containing some pieces of crystal and amethyst, which was sent to the Karachi Museum. The stupa was decorated using terracotta sculptures representing the Buddha.> The artwork is similar to that seen at Sarnath and at Mathura. Clay tablets containing the Buddhist formula \"Ye Dharma Hetu\" in 7th-8th script were also found.\n\nThe stupa is now said to be in a poor condition. The bricks have been taken away causing deliberate destruction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52200861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52200861", "title": "Khorasani style (poetry)", "text": "Khorasani style (poetry)\n\nKhorāsānī style (Persian: \"sabk-i Khorāsānī\" 'the style of Khurāsān', also known as \"sabk-i Turkistānī\" 'the style of Turkistan', also transliterated \"Khurāsānī\") was a movement in Persian poetry associated with the court of the Ghaznavids, associated with Greater Khorasan (now divided between Iran, Afghanistan, and Uzbekistan).\n\nThe term was coined in the early twentieth century. It is traditionally considered to characterise the first period of New Persian poetry, running from the ninth century CE into the second half of the twelfth. It is characterized by its plain poetic technique, concrete images and metaphors, and some archaic linguistic features. While showing limited use of Arabic loan-words, poetry in this style was influenced by Arabic verse, particularly in terms of its prosody, and the dominant genre was the praise-poem.\n\nThe Khurāsānī period was succeeded by the \"sabk-i ‘Irāqī\" ('style of Iraq'), with its greater use of Arabisms, more elaborate metaphors and imagery, and turn towards spiritualism. However, the transition between the periods was not a sharp one. The style saw a return to popularity with the so-called literary revival (\"bazgasht-e abadi\") of the eighteenth to twentieth centuries.\n\nThe pre-eminent study of the style was by Muḥammad Jaʻfar Maḥjūb in 1971. The chief representatives of this lyricism are Asjadi, Farrukhi Sistani, Unsuri, and Manuchehri. Panegyric masters such as Rudaki were known for their love of nature, their verse abounding with evocative descriptions.\n\nA. A. Seyed-Gohrab contrasts the following passages to illustrate the Khorāsānī style. The first is a description of a palace from \"Qaṣīda 31\" by Farrukhī Sistānī, writing in the earlier eleventh century. It is plain and concrete in its description:\n\nThe second is from the end of the \"sabk-i Khurāsānī\" period, near to the \"sabk-i ‘Irāqī\" period: a description of a palace built by Arslān Shah of Ghazna, composed by ‘Uthmān Mukhtārī in the vicinity of 1100. This description is far less concrete and much more spiritual in tone:\n"}
{"id": "43849257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43849257", "title": "Lapidarium, Kerch", "text": "Lapidarium, Kerch\n\nLapidarium, (from Latin ″lapis″-stone) situated in Kerch, Crimea is a collection of samples of ancient art, containing items found during the excavation of the ancient Bosporan kingdom and other finds discovered on the territory of the Kerch peninsula. It occupies one of leading places among the repositories of classical Epigraphic monuments in the world. Lapidarium are stored in the Kerch Bosporan Greek inscriptions made in stone, sculpture and architectural details, samples, gebraistskih and Turkish gravestones.\n\nThe lapidary collection compiled materials from the personal collection of famous Explorer Paul Du Brux, who in 1810-1820 's put together a collection of antique items and gave it the name \"Drevnehraniliŝe\". Later the collection was supplemented from different sources. Most of the collection was formed in the period leading up to 1917. Some instances since then were taken to the British Museum, the Hermitage, the Pushkin Museum (Moscow) and others [1]. During the Soviet period, part of the collection was housed in the building of the Church of St. John the Baptist in Kerch. Presently the exposition of this Lapidarium is located in a separate building. It also has rooms for restoration and scientific work.\n\nAt the present time (2013) the collection of the lapidarium comprises more than 2200 storage units. In the collection of the artifacts displayed ancient (the main part of the collection) and medieval eras. Wide range of Antique sculptures, numerous gravestones and Epigraphic monuments, architectural details, cult objects. In lapidary exhibit the portrait scenes of the Bosphorus\n, Memorial and decorative sculpture, a work of architectural sculpture, objects of religious designation, fragments of ancient marble stellas, fountains, tables, Church facades. The exhibition illustrates various aspects of life of the population of the ancient bosporan cities.\nThrough the annual excavations at ancient fortresses of Kerch, the collection continues to grow with new exhibits.\n\nIn 2002 at the Lapidarium was founded International School conservation of stone. With the participation of the specialists from Russia, Ukraine and Denmark. The scientific and research work is conducted. Work on expansion of the exposition.\n\n"}
{"id": "7191945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7191945", "title": "Layla Fakhro", "text": "Layla Fakhro\n\nLayla Abdulla Yousif Al-Fakhro was a pioneering Bahraini woman who was an educator and a freedom fighter. She has taken part in the Dhofar Rebellion in Oman in the 1960s and has established the first [School of the Revolution] through which much of the current top echelon of Omani government and enterprise have passed through, providing the basis of a modern educational system in Oman. These enterprises have made Ms. Fakhro a legend throughout the Arab world in general, and the Gulf in particular.\n\nLayla Fakhro was born in 1945 in Muharraq island in Bahrain. She died after a long illness on 21 September 2006. She is survived by her two daughters, Munira and Aysha, and husband Ubaiydli Al-Ubaiydli.\n\nBio\n"}
{"id": "311746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311746", "title": "Love's Labour's Won", "text": "Love's Labour's Won\n\nLove's Labour's Won is a lost play attributed by contemporaries to William Shakespeare, written before 1598 and published by 1603, though no copies are known to have survived. Scholars dispute whether it is a true lost work, possibly a sequel to \"Love's Labour's Lost\", or an alternative title to a known Shakespeare play.\n\nThe first mention of the play occurs in Francis Meres' \"Palladis Tamia, Wits Treasury\" (1598) in which he lists a dozen Shakespeare plays. His list of Shakespearean comedies reads:\nThe August 1603 book list of the stationer Christopher Hunt lists the play as printed in quarto among other works by Shakespeare:\n\nShakespeare scholars have several theories about the play.\n\nOne theory is that \"Love's Labour's Won\" may be a lost sequel to \"Love's Labour's Lost\", depicting the further adventures of the King of Navarre, Berowne, Longaville, and Dumain, whose marriages were delayed at the end of \"Love's Labour's Lost\". In the final moments of \"Love's Labour's Lost\" the weddings that customarily close Shakespeare's comedies are unexpectedly deferred for a year without any obvious plot purpose, which would allow for a sequel. Critic Cedric Watts imagined what a sequel might look like:\n\nAgainst this it must be observed that Elizabethan playwrights almost never wrote sequels to comedies. Sequels were written for historical plays or, less commonly, for tragedies.\n\nAnother theory is that \"Love's Labour's Won\" was an alternative name for an existing play. This would explain why it was not printed under that name in the First Folio of Shakespeare's complete dramatic works in 1623, for which the sequel theory has no obvious explanation. \n\nA longtime theory held that \"Love's Labour's Won\" was an alternative name for \"The Taming of the Shrew\", which had been written several years earlier and is noticeably missing from Meres' list. But in 1953, Solomon Pottesman, a London-based antiquarian book dealer and collector, discovered the August 1603 book list of the stationer Christopher Hunt, which lists as printed in quarto:\nThe find provided evidence that the play might be a distinct work that had been published but lost and not an early title of \"The Taming of the Shrew\". However, this evidence is not decisive. Another playwright had written a play called \"The Taming of a Shrew\" which was published in quarto in 1594, whereas Shakespeare's \"Shrew\" play was not published until the 1623 Folio. Therefore, it is possible that Shakespeare originally titled his Shrew play \"Love's Labour's Won\" in order to distinguish it from the rival play.\n\nYet another possibility is that the name is an alternative title for another Shakespearean comedy not listed by Meres or Hunt. \"Much Ado About Nothing\", commonly believed to be written around 1598, is often suggested. For example, Henry Woudhuysen's Arden edition (third series) of \"Love's Labour's Lost\" lists a number of striking similarities between the two plays. \"Much Ado about Nothing\" is also listed under another alternative title, \"Benedick and Beatrice\", in several book sellers' catalogues.\n\nLeslie Hotson speculated that \"Love's Labour's Won\" was the former title of \"Troilus and Cressida\", pointing out that \"Troilus and Cressida\" did not appear in \"Palladis Tamia\", a view that has been criticised by Kenneth Palmer for requiring a \"forced interpretation of the play\". In addition, \"Troilus and Cressida\" is generally considered to have been written around 1602.\n\nDavid Grote argues that it was another name for \"As You Like It\". He suggests that titles for comedies were often generic – several plays could be called \"As You Like It\" or \"All's Well that Ends Well\", for example, and that names were not fixed until repeated publication. He suggests that \"As You Like It\" began as a sequel to \"Love's Labour's Lost\", but was later revised when Robert Armin replaced William Kempe as the principal comic actor in Shakespeare's theatre company, the Lord Chamberlain's Men.\n\nIn their 2014 season commemorating the centenary of the commencement of World War I hostilities, the Royal Shakespeare Company co-opted the title in performing \"Much Ado about Nothing\" under the name \"Love's Labour's Won (also known as Much Ado about Nothing)\". It was staged as a companion piece to \"Love's Labour's Lost\". The pair of plays bookended the period of the war. \"Love's Labour's Lost\" was set at the beginning of the war in 1914, with \"Love Labour's Won\" set at its end in 1918, with the male characters returning home after the final victory.\n\nIt was featured as a plot device in the 1948 novel \"Love Lies Bleeding\" by Edmund Crispin, in which the discovery of a copy of the play triggers a series of murders. \n\nThe writing of the play is a major plot point in the 2007 \"Doctor Who\" episode \"The Shakespeare Code\", in which lines from the play, when spoken, will liberate a hostile alien species from confinement. In the end, all copies of the play are sucked into a vortex.\n\nIt was also used in the book series \"The 39 Clues\" as a minor plot device in the final book of the first series.\n\nIn Harry Turtledove's alternate history novel \"Ruled Britannia\", depicting a Spanish-ruled England in which Shakespeare is involved in the clandestine resistance, mentions him writing a play called \"Love's Labour's Won\". However, this play seems to be simply \"our\" \"Love's Labours Lost\", as Shakespeare is shown making a last-minute change of Don Armado's nationality from Spanish to Italian, to avoid insulting the overlords.\n\n"}
{"id": "39688440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39688440", "title": "Mahendraparvata", "text": "Mahendraparvata\n\nMahendraparvata () is an ancient city of the Khmer Empire era in Cambodia. The existence of the city has been known for decades, but much of it lay concealed by forest and earth. The city was uncovered by an archaeological expedition led by Jean-Baptiste Chevance and Damian Evans in 2012 with the aid of airborne laser scanning technology called LIDAR.\n\nThe name Mahendraparvata means \"Mountain of the Great Indra\". It is derived from the Sanskrit words महेन्द्र (\"Great Indra\", a title of the Hindu god Indra) and पर्वत (\"mountain\") and is a reference to the sacred hill top site commonly known as \"Phnom Kulen\" today where Jayavarman II was consecrated as the first king of the Khmer Empire in 802. The name is attested in inscriptions on the Angkor-area Ak Yum temple.\n\nMahendraparvata is located north of the Angkor Wat complex, north of Siem Reap, on the slopes of Phnom Kulen mountain in Siem Reap Province.\n\nThe multi-year archaeological expedition to find Mahendraparvata was co-led by Damian Evans of University of Sydney and Jean-Baptiste Chevance of London's Archaeology and Development Foundation. The team announced their initial findings in June 2013. A key feature of the expedition was its use of helicopter-mounted Lidar technology to scan the Phnom Kulen area and then map the city layout. The scanning phase involved seven days of helicopter operations. The Lidar results confirmed ground-based research by previous archaeologists. But, according to Chevance, before this they \"didn't know how all the dots fitted, exactly how it all came together\".\n\nThe ground phase of the expedition traversed goat tracks and watery bogs, the team having got to their starting point by motorbike. Hazards included landmines. They initially uncovered five new temples. Eventually, using the Lidar data, 30 previously unidentified temples were discovered. In addition to the temples, their research showed the existence of an elaborate grid-like network of roads, dykes and ponds forming the city. Dr. Evans also noted that expedition imagery shows that the area became deforested, and he theorises that the impact of this, and water management issues, led to the civilisation's decline.\n\nThe expedition team have dated Mahendraparvata's origins to 802 AD. Thus the city predates Angkor Wat by about 350 years.\n\nThe city's origins date to the reign of Jayavarman II, considered the founder of the Khmer Empire. His reign was consecrated on the sacred mountain of Mahendraparvata, known as Phnom Kulen in contemporary Cambodian. The city he founded at Mahendraparvata was one of three capitals, or courts, of Jayavarman II's reign, the others being Amarendrapura and Hariharalaya.\n\nThe 1936 expedition of French archaeologist and art historian Philippe Stern had also explored the Phnom Kulen highlands. He discovered some previously unknown temples and Vishnu statues and described the area as the first true temple mountain. But the area, while being the source of rivers flowing south to the Tonle Sap, was remote. Later in his reign, Jayavarman II moved to Hariharalaya where he died in 835 AD.\n\n"}
{"id": "52806824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52806824", "title": "Mathematicism", "text": "Mathematicism\n\nMathematicism is any opinion, viewpoint, school of thought, or philosophy that states that everything can be described/defined/modelled ultimately by mathematics, or that the universe and reality (both material and mental/spiritual) are fundamentally/fully/only mathematical, i.e. that 'everything is mathematics' necessitating the ideas of logic, reason, mind, and spirit.\n\nMathematicism is a form of rationalist idealist or mentalist/spiritualist monism). The idea started in the West with ancient Greece's Pythagoreanism, and continued in other rationalist idealist schools of thought such as Platonism. The term 'mathematicism' has additional meanings among Cartesian idealist philosophers and mathematicians, such as describing the ability and process to study reality mathematically.\n\nMathematicism includes (but is not limited to) the following (chronological order):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13652104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13652104", "title": "Mediation (Marxist theory and media studies)", "text": "Mediation (Marxist theory and media studies)\n\nMediation () in Marxist theory refers to the reconciliation of two opposing forces within a given society (i.e. the cultural and material realms, or the superstructure and base) by a mediating object. Similar to this, within media studies the central mediating factor of a given culture is the medium of communication itself. The popular conception of mediation refers to the reconciliation of two opposing parties by a third, and this is similar to its meaning in both Marxist theory and media studies. For Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, this mediating factor is capital or alternately labor, depending on how one views capitalist society (capital is the dominant mediating factor, but labor is another mediating factor that could overthrow capital as the most important one).\n\nTo give a concrete example of this, a worker making shoes in a shoe factory is not only producing shoes, but potential exchange-value. The shoes are commodities that can be sold for cash. In this way, the value of the labor of the worker is the exchange-value of the shoes he or she produces minus his or her compensation. At the same time, however, the shoes produced have certain social or cultural values as well. In this way, the worker’s labor is mediating between the economic or exchange-value of the shoes, and their social or cultural, or symbolic value.\n\nIn media studies, thinkers like Marshall McLuhan treat \"the medium is the message\" or the medium of a given social object (such as a book, CD, or television show) as the touchstone for both the cultural and material elements of the society in which this object exists. McLuhan is famous for critiquing the different types of cultural and material processes that are made available between print-based media (like books and magazines) and electronic media like television, radio, and film. While print requires thinking that is linear, chronological, and separate from the thinking of others, electronic media are considered more organic, simultaneous, and interdependent on other media and on other users of that media.\n\nMany thinkers are now considering how Marxist theory affects the way we think of media and vice versa, at the same time that new media are becoming a major form of communication. Contemporary media theorists often use elements of Marxist theory, such as mediation, to look at how new media affect social relations and lifestyles through their ability to communicate images, sounds, and other forms of information across the globe at incredible speeds.\n\nThe problem of mediation in Marxism is also referred to as the problem of determination, or namely how social actors navigate the social structures that bind them. For Marx, the primary form of mediation is labor, which forms a dialectical relationship between a worker’s body and nature. Labor thus mediates between humans and the natural world. Once labor becomes reified, or made into an abstraction that becomes a commodity, however, it becomes alienated from the worker who owns it and becomes exchangeable just like any other commodity. Once this occurs, capital becomes the mediating or determining factor, with the capitalist setting the wage rate or exchange-value of labor. The only thing the worker owns in this case, his or her labor power or ability to work, becomes the worker’s sole means of subsistence. The worker must get as much value from his or her labor as is possible on the open market in order to survive.\n\nA major theme in Marxism is the problem of mediation or determination: what amount of agency does labor have in light of the determining forces of a given culture. Implicit in this is the underlying fact that labor is itself worth something, and thus the mediator is actually money, be it access to money or its possession. All arenas of conflict are mediated by how money acts as a primary determining agent in the outcome of that struggle. As James Arnt Aune has reflected, questions that arise concerning this problem include: “How do institutions, practices, and messages shape class formation? What alternative institutions, practices, and messages are available to those who wish to reshape class formations within the framework of structural possibilities?” (46). The question of mediation, then, is a question, as Aune puts it, of how Marxist theory mediates “structural possibilities and popular struggle” (46).\n\nFor Marx and Friedrich Engels, social actors are caught in a cycle of mediation between the economic base of a culture and the ideas and value systems of the culture that is given rise to by this base. Thus, as he famously formulated in The German Ideology:\nThe ideas of the ruling class are in every epoch the ruling ideas, i.e. the class which is the ruling material force of society, is at the same time its ruling intellectual force. The class which has the means of material production at its disposal, has control at the same time over the means of mental production, so that thereby, generally speaking, the ideas of those who lack the means of mental production are subject to it. The ruling ideas are nothing more than the ideal expression of the dominant material relationships, the dominant material relationships grasped as ideas; hence of the relationships which make the one class the ruling one, therefore, the ideas of its dominance. (64)\nFor Marx and Engels, then, the ruling classes control the subordinate classes through domination of the ideas available in the culture. In this way the subordinate classes are said to be mediated by the effects of ideology, or “false consciousness” or a belief system that doesn’t allow them to see the oppression they are enduring for what it is. The problem with this idea, as many Marxists have noted, is that it doesn’t leave room for members of the subordinate classes to act on the world around them through alternate forms of mediation.\n\nLater Marxists such as Gramsci would problematize this notion of ideology or false consciousness by studying the ways that workers operate during periods of “organic crisis,” or those times when social classes become detached from their traditional parties and a violent overthrow of the ruling classes is possible. Seeking to describe the ways that governments regain control of these classes during such periods of unrest, Gramsci developed the idea of hegemony, a process by which social actors within the ruling classes convince subordinate classes to consent to their own oppression once again:\n\nThe traditional ruling class, which has numerous trained cadres, changes men and programmes and, with greater speed than is achieved by the subordinate classes, reabsorbs the control that was slipping from its grasp. Perhaps it may take sacrifices, and expose itself to an uncertain future by demagogic promises; but it retains power, reinforces it for the time being, and uses it to crush its adversary and disperse his leading cadres. (210-11)\n\nUnfortunately, Gramsci died before he could completely articulate how hegemony mediates the subordinate classes in periods of relative calm or how to work against the powers of the ruling classes as exerted in this way. Importantly, however, he had vastly complicated the ways that later Marxists would think about mediation: as a means of persuasion utilized by the ruling classes, rather than as complete control of the available ideas within a given culture (ideology).\n\nThe work of Raymond Williams and other members of the Birmingham Center for British Cultural Studies would further extend the notion of mediation in cultural materialism. For Williams, this notion should connote a social actor’s position in relation to co-determining aspects of a social formation, or a multitude of pressures and limits that are always changing and being changed by the social actor.\n\nThus, for Williams: \n\"Society\" is then never only the \"dead husk\" which limits social and individual fulfillment. It is always a constitutive process with very powerful pressures which are both expressed in political, economic, and cultural formations and, to take the full weight of \"constitutive,\" are internalized and become \"individual wills.\" Determination of this whole kind—a complex and interrelated process of limits and pressures—is in the whole social process itself and nowhere else: not in an abstracted \"mode of production\" nor in an abstracted \"psychology.\" (87)\n\nUnder this guise, mediation becomes a process of lived reality whereas social actors are not so much duped by ruling ideas as incredibly involved with the understanding and circulation of those ideas through their own expressions of individual will. This is a much more dynamic process of mediation than previous versions, but one heavily dependent on a more in-depth theorization of Gramsci’s notion of hegemony.\n\nCultural theorist Stuart Hall, Ernesto Laclau and Chantal Mouffe have further theorized the complexities of mediation through their development of articulation theory, to describe the ways that certain notions become dominant in a culture, given the relative openness of the social in heavily industrialized nations such as the U.S. This openness results in a “non-necessary belongingness” for the various elements of a given social formation, or an indeterminacy to the way that history, culture, economics or the material world, and social actors come together to form dominant notions. Thus, for Hall:\n\n…the so-called unity of a discourse is really the articulation of different, distinct elements which can be articulated in different ways because they have no necessary “belongingness”. The “unity” which matters is a linkage between that articulated discourse and the social forces with which it can, under certain historical conditions, but need not necessarily, be connected. Thus, a theory of articulation is both a way of understanding how ideological elements come, under certain conditions, to cohere together within a discourse, and a way of asking how they do or do not become articulated, at specific conjunctures, to certain political subjects. (53)\n\nUnder articulation theory mediation becomes a complex, indeterminate process by which social meanings are circulated under the historical conditions of a given culture and social actors take up these meanings or not based on a complex interplay of all the parts of the social whole.\n\nWithin media studies mediation is also used in the same sense as in Marxist theory: thinkers try to look at how a given medium reconciles the various forces of history, culture, economics or the material world, and how social actors use that medium to navigate these various meanings and values. The central problem for any media theorist, similar to the problem of a Marxist theorist, is to attempt to analyze what is possible and what is limited by a given medium. Or, in other words, how does the structure of the medium limit how that medium can be used and how do social actors work both within and against that structure?\n\nThere is another sense in which media theorists look at this question, too, and that is by looking at the \"mass media\" as a whole. Beginning perhaps with the Frankfurt school’s theorization of the \"culture industry,\" particularly in the work of Max Horkheimer, Theodor W. Adorno, and Herbert Marcuse, theorists have tried to understand how mass audiences are both affected by and can affect the massive, corporatized media establishment that we see in countries like the U.S. As Adorno and Horkheimer reflect:\n\nThe most intimate reactions of human beings have been so thoroughly reified that the idea of anything specific to themselves now persists only as an utterly abstract notion: personality scarcely signifies anything more than shining white teeth and freedom from body odor and emotions. The triumph of advertising in the culture industry is that consumers feel compelled to buy and use its products even though they see through them. (167)\n\nEarly theorists such as these saw no agency whatsoever for audiences of the culture industry, claiming instead that this industry was founded on mass deception and that the average consumer was a cultural dupe being inculcated into the values of the ruling classes without realizing it. Many critics of this school feel that this represented a reintroduction of Marx’s ideas about mediation, or media as purveyors of a dominant ideology that destroyed the possibility that audiences for mass media were able to work against these ruling ideas.\n\nPerhaps one of the best known media theorists, McLuhan is famous for his dictum that \"the medium is the message.\" For McLuhan the central mediating factor in any society is the medium of communication itself. In this way, media occupy for McLuhan what labor or capital did for Marx. By claiming that the \"medium is the message\", McLuhan means that \"the personal and social consequences of any medium—that is, of any extension of ourselves—result from the new scale that is introduced into our affairs by each extension of ourselves, or by any new technology\" (p. 7). For McLuhan, the introduction of any new form of media into a given culture radically alters the way that members of that culture mediate between the material world and the given values available to them.\n\nThus, the shift into print technology radically altered the way that all later media would be both formed and operated: \"Printing from movable types was the first mechanization of a complex handicraft, and became the archetype of all subsequent mechanization\" (170). As he continues, however:\n\nLike any other extension of man, typography had psychic and social consequences that suddenly shifted previous boundaries and patterns of culture. In bringing the ancient and medieval worlds into fusion—or, as some would say, confusion—the printed book created a third world, the modern world, which now encounters a new electric technology, or a new extension of man. Electric means of moving information are altering our typographic culture as sharply as print modified medieval manuscript and scholastic culture. (p. 171)\n\nFor McLuhan, electronic media, as the new form of mediation in our culture, are creating radical new possibilities for thought and social relations. These new possibilities include the extension of our nervous system across space and time. As McLuhan puts it:\n\nAfter more than a century of electric technology, we have extended our central nervous system itself in a global embrace, abolishing both space and time as far as our planet is concerned. Rapidly, we approach the final phase of the extensions of man—the technological simulation of consciousness, when the creative process of knowing will be collectively and corporately extended to the whole of human society. (3-4)\n\nThis has resulted in a hybridization of media forms:\n\nMedia as extensions of our senses institute new ratios, not only among our private senses, but among themselves, when they interact among themselves. Radio changed the form of the news story as much as it altered the film image in the talkies. TV caused drastic changes in radio programming, and in the form of the thing or documentary novel. (53)\n\nIt has also resulted in the translation of human consciousness \"more and more into the form of information\":\n\nBy putting our physical bodies inside our extended nervous systems, by means of electric media, we set up a dynamic by which all previous technologies that are mere extensions… of our bodies… will be translated into information systems. Electromagnetic technology requires utter human docility and quiescence of meditation such as befits an organism that now wears its brain outside its skull and its nerves outside its hide. Man must serve his electric technology with the same servo-mechanistic fidelity with which he served his coracle, his canoe, his typography, and all other extensions of his physical organs. (57)\n\nMcLuhan has been critiqued as being alternately utopian, deterministic, and Eurocentric about the ways that media mediate between human beings and their natural world, but no one would deny the effects his work has had on the study of media.\n\nAn important model to this day in media studies, Noam Chomsky and Edward S. Herman would formulate what they call the propaganda model for analyzing the media. This model:\n\nattempts to explain the performances of the U.S. media in terms of the basic institutional structures and relationships within which they operate. It is our view that, among their other functions, the media serve, and propagandize on behalf of, the powerful society interests that control and finance them. The representatives of these interests have important agendas and principles that they want to advance, and they are well positioned to shape and constrain media policy. This is not normally accomplished by crude intervention, but by the selection of right-thinking personnel and by the editors’ and working journalists’ internalization of priorities and definitions of newsworthiness that conform to the institution’s policy.” (xi)\n\nThis model, then, focuses mostly on “structural factors” of the mass media, including “ownership and control, dependence on other major funding sources (notably, advertisers), and mutual interests and relationships between the media and those who make the news and have the power to define it and explain what it means” (xi). Though the importance of this model and its influence on media studies is not to be denied, later thinkers have criticized this emphasis on structure over agency, because it neglects the ability of audiences of this media to question the prevailing notions represented.\n\nThinkers such as John Fiske have looked at how audiences use popular media to get their own enjoyment from them, claiming, in a diametrically opposed fashion to much other media theory, that popular media, and thus the popular culture they are both part of and help create, can actually be progressive as audiences struggle to use these media for their own individual purposes, and the media then shift to accommodate these purposes.\n\nFor Fiske this happens through a process of what he calls “incorporation and excorporation,” a process by which social meanings are mediated by the dominant and subordinate members of a society in an ongoing struggle. In this way, excorporation, is “the process by which the subordinates make their own culture out of the resources and commodities provided by the dominant system, and this is central to popular culture, for in an industrial society the only resources from which the subordinate can make their own subcultures are those provided by the system that subordinates them” (15). Incorporation, on the other hand, is a kind of “containment” used by the dominant system, or a “process of adopting the signs of resistance [that] incorporates them into the dominant system and thus attempts to rob them of any oppositional meanings” (18).\n\nThese ideas have affected many thinkers after Fiske, but he has also been critiqued as being too utopian, and as not providing enough agency for the audiences he describes. If the only available agency for audiences are their mediation of those values “provided by the system that subordinates them,” then they will always occupy a subordinate position in relation to that system.\n\nThinkers like Robert W. McChesney have looked at how the mass media mediate democracy, creating a touchstone for how citizens think of the mass media as either belonging to and serve their interests or serving the interests of the corporations that own them. As McChesney says:\n\nThe corporate domination of both the media system and the policy-making process that establishes and sustains it causes serious problems for a functioning democracy and a healthy culture. Media are not the only factor in explaining the woeful state of our democracy, but they are a key factor. It is difficult to imagine much headway being made on the crucial social issues that face our nation given how poorly they are covered by the current U.S. media system. (p. 7)\n\nAt the same time, however, McChesney, unlike early thinkers in this vein, is interested in mobilizing popular resistance against this domination. He continues: “the democratic solution to this problem, is to increase informed public participation in media policy making” (p. 7). McChesney is well known as an outspoken advocate for this public participation, engaging in speaking tours around the country and lobbying against corporate control of the media.\n\nTheorists of new media examine how emerging kinds of media, such as websites, blogs, wiki pages, and digital video, both delimit the ways people can use them, and provide new avenues for the production of social relations and meanings. Picking up from McLuhan, media theorists Jay David Bolter and Richard Grusin , in their 1999 book Remediation: Understanding New Media, sought to describe how media forms interact with one another through remediation and the way that this media practice invokes the interrelated processes of immediacy and hypermediacy. The validation of the concept of ‘remediation’; “the representation of one medium in another” (p. 45), is a principal aim of the book, in order to illustrate how remediation has been an integral practice to both new and old media forms that continually inform one another. Immediacy attempts to make viewers feel as if ‘really’ there, through hypermediated practices, which splice together (hybridizing as McLuhan would say) different kinds of media, such as the combination of “live-action footage with computer compositing and two- and three-dimensional computer graphics” (p. 6) in order to create the appearance of a seamless moving image. These interrealated processes highlight, what Bolter and Grusin term, the “double logic of remediation” (p. 5) that pursues the proliferation of media whilst trying to erase all traces of human and/or technological mediation.\n\nBolter and Grusin contend that the process of remediation emphasizes that all media is, on one level, a poststructutalist ‘play of signs’ (p. 19). The recognition of these varying signs of influence differ across a spectrum, from ‘transparent’ remediations that clearly represent the previous media form, to aggressive forms that seek to disguise the role of their hypermediated practices in the name of providing the highest sense of immediacy. Bolter and Grusin broadly identify forms of remediation, across a spectrum, in the following five categorisations:\n\nTransparent: Previous mediums are “highlighted and represented in digital form without apparent irony or critique. Examples include CD-ROM (or DVD) picture galleries (digitized paintings or photographs) and collections of literary texts” (p. 45). This form of remediation seeks transparency, endeavoring to erase itself, “so that the viewer stands in the same relationship to the content as she would if she were confronting the original medium” (p. 49).\nTranslucent: The new media is still justified in terms of the old and seeks to remain faithful to the older medium's character. This form of remediation seeks “to emphasize the difference rather than erase it” (P. 46). In translucent remediation “the new medium does not want to efface itself entirely” (p. 46). For instance, in regards to the CD-ROM encyclopedia Encarta, Microsoft is attempting to convey to the consumer that, “she has purchased not simply an Encyclopedia, but an electronic, and therefore improved, Encyclopedia” (p. 46).\n\nHypermediated: This form of remediation attempts to “refashion the older medium or media entirely, while still marking the presence of the older media and therefore maintaining a sense of multiplicity or hypermediacy” (p. 46). This can be seen in the use of simultaneous window frames, which are able to run different programs representative of different media. Hypermediated remediation is akin to “a mosaic in which we are simultaneously aware of the individual pieces and their new, in-appropriate setting” (p. 47).\n\nAggressive: The new medium attempts to “absorb the older medium entirely, so that the discontinuities between the two are minimized” (p. 47). Bolter and Grusin speak to the computer games Myst and Doom, which remediate cinema so that “players become characters in a cinematic narrative” (p. 47). Video games allow for an (limited) ability to determine narrative within a subjective realization through the capacity to “decide where to look—where to direct their graphically realized points of view” (p. 47). In regard to film, Bolter and Grusin, in part, understand this form of aggressive remediation as “an attempt to hold off the threat that digital media might pose for the traditional, linear film” (p. 48). This form of aggressive remediation seeks a different form of transparency, through attempting making any electronic interventions invisible. This concealment of its relationship to earlier media, “promises the user an unmediated experience” (p. 48).\n\nRefashioning within a single medium: This occurs “when a film borrows from an earlier film” (p. 49). This process of borrowing is a fundamental aspect of film, painting and literature, where the play within a play or the poem within a poem or novel is a very familiar strategy.” Bolter and Grusin assert that this kind of remediation has been thought of highly by the respective critics as, “it does not violate the presumed sanctity of the medium” (49).\n\nBolter and Grusin apply their consideration of remediation on to the ontology of all media:\n\nall mediation is remediation. We are not claiming this as an a priori truth, but rather arguing that at this extended historical moment, all current media function as remediators and that remediation offers us a means of interpreting the work of earlier media as well. Our culture conceives of each medium or constellation of media as it responds to, redeploys, competes with, and reforms other media. In the first instance, we may think of something like a historical progression, of newer media remediating older ones and in particular of digital media remediating their predecessors. But ours is a genealogy of affiliations, not a linear history, and in this genealogy, older media can also remediate newer ones. (p. 55)\n\nThis means that all media, from literature to new digital media, is unable to make a radical break away from what has come before. Media continues to “function in a constant dialectic with earlier media” (p. 50) forms, where both old and new are able to impact on one another regardless of which came first. For example, “users of older media such as film and television can seek to appropriate and refashion digital graphics, just as digital graphics artists can refashion film and television” (p. 48). However these appropriations within digital technologies of immediacy have often sought to deny mediation. Bolter and Grusin elaborate on the double logic of this form of remediation as an integral function of contemporary immediacy in media. Although Bolter and Grusin acknowledge that not “all of our culture's claims of remediation are equally compelling or that we could necessarily identify all of the strategies through which digital media remediate and are remediated by their predecessors” (p. 55) they outline various ways in which “the double logic of remediation can function explicitly or implicitly” (p. 55) can be restated in the following ways: \n\n1) Remediation as the mediation of mediation: “Each act of mediation depends on other acts of mediation. Media are continually commenting on, reproducing, and replacing each other, and this process is integral to media” (p. 55). [Media needs other media in order to function as media at all.] \n<br>\n<br>\n3) Remediation as reform: The goal of remediation is to refashion or rehabilitate other media. Furthermore, because all mediations are both real and mediations of the real, remediation can also be understood as a process of reforming reality as well.” (pp. 55-6)\n\nAdditionally, Bolter and Grusin also discuss a psychological dimension of “the desire for immediacy and the fascination with hypermediacy” (p. 62) that considers how individuals are subjugated through their engagement with media forms. For instance, “when we watch a film or a television broadcast, we understand ourselves as the changing point of view of the camera” (p. 62). Bolter and Grusin stipulate that the media type predisposes the form of subjectivisation that takes places and that all mediated participations offer, “a different mediation of the subject, and our experience is the remediation of these differences” (p. 62). A subject’s existence is understood as “the ability to occupy points of view … [and] can enter into immediate relationships with the various media or media forms that surround her” (p. 63). Considerations of the ways the ‘self’ is involved in processes of mediation and remediation enable an examination of the effect of the desire for immediacy within media. Bolter and Grusin assert that, “instead of trying to be in the presence of the objects of representation, the subject now defines immediacy as being in the presence of media” (p. 62).\n\nOn the cutting edge of what many are calling the new media revolution of form and content, or in other words of the mediation of experience, Bolter and Grusin provide an important insight into the interdependency of media and its integral role in understanding how “the remediation of reality has been built into our technologies of representation” (p. 62).\n\nMany thinkers are now working at the intersections of Marxism and media studies, and are attempting to tease out the various interrelations, contradictions, and possibilities inherent in these two conversations. Recent books attest to the strength of such work.\n\nMany of these thinkers see as their project the rehabilitation of Marxist theory and cultural studies in light of new forms of media and parallel social and historical developments and vice versa. As Deepa Kumar puts it, regarding aspects of Marxist theory such as dialectical materialism:\n\nthe method of analysis developed by Marx and Engels, is more relevant to media and cultural studies scholarship today for at least two reasons: the crisis of neoliberalism and the collapse of Stalinism….The time has come for critical scholarship to shake off the yoke of TINA (there is no alternative), and start to take seriously the bankruptcy of capitalism and the possibilities of a socialist alternative. (71)\n\nThus, Kumar sees the task of scholars of media and culture as twofold: “to explain and critique the state of culture and society, and then to act upon the world to change it. In taking up this challenge, classical Marxism as a guide to action has much to offer” (85). In addition, this type of work is possible according to Kumar due to the contradictory nature of media: “Media texts are contradictory, as all reality is contradictory. And contradiction allows for change within the totality of social relations. This change is the product of human beings resisting their conditions of oppression and exploitation” (p. 84).\n\nAnd this contradictory nature of media, is in turn due to the ways that media are mediated in modern-day culture: “In short, mass-mediated products are determined by various factors—the systems of ownership, the process of cultural production, the level of struggle, the state of consciousness in society at a given time, and so on. A dialectical method of analysis would involve studying all these factors within a concrete historical context so as to explain the multiple mediations that infuse a product of culture” (85). For many of these new thinkers, the very way that new forms of media are mediated by social actors, or way that these actors navigate the complex and contradictory forces of history, the material world, and culture through media is the key to the age old problem of mediation in Marxist theory.\n\nOne particular intersection of Marxist theory and new media studies is to be found in Phil Graham’s \"Hypercapitalism: New Media, Language, and Social Perceptions of Value\", in which he attempts to theorize the ways that the new knowledge economy is mediated by various factors. For Graham, in order for a theory to “establish the historical significance of a global, digitally mediated knowledge economy,” the approach:\n\nmust grasp the relationship between language, privilege, and the perceived relative value of different classes of knowers and knowledges; to grasp the effects of new media and their relationship to changes in conceptions about the character of knowledge; and—since knowledge, new media, language, and value are perennial and dynamic influences in human societies—to identify what marks the current transition in social relations as historically significant or unique, if anything. (xi)\n\nIn order to do this work, then, Graham is adopting a “process view of mediation”,\n\nthat sees the movement and transformation of meanings across times, spaces, and social contexts; which acknowledges that, yes, there are technological aspects of mediation that cannot be ignored, and there are substantial issues surrounding what is generally understood by the term “content”. However, mediation is far more than either “content” or technology. It is a complex set of real, material, social processes facilitated by specific technological means. (p. 3)\n\nUltimately, Graham is representative of this new body of work because he is seeking to define a methodology that accounts for the complexity and contradiction arising from the ways that new media and new methods of information exchange are mediated by all conceivable factors.\n"}
{"id": "3245771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3245771", "title": "Ngāti Hotu", "text": "Ngāti Hotu\n\nNgāti Hotu was a Māori tribe that, according to tradition, lived in the central North Island of New Zealand in the area surrounding southern Lake Taupo, where the Ngāti Tūwharetoa tribe now resides. \n\nNgāti Hotu were believed to have been part of the Tini o Toi Tribes of the Bay of Plenty and tradition describes Ngāti Hotu as 'a very fierce and warlike people' whom it took many generations of warfare to destroy, beginning from around the year 1450. Other traditions describe them as spirit people, which as is typical in Māori tradition, had reddish hair and skin, symbolising their tapu nature.\n\nNgāti Hotu were found living around the shores of lakes Taupo and Rotoaira by the Ngāti Tūwharetoa iwi (tribe) in perhaps the 15th century. Ngāti Tūwharetoa were then resident at Kawerau and associated with Te Arawa iwi which today occupies the area from the Bay of Plenty coastline to the Lake Taupo district. Ngāti Hotu suffered a major defeat at the battle of Pukekaikiore ('hill of the meal of rats') to the southwest of Lake Taupo where Ngāti Tūwharetoa devastated them, causing the few survivors to flee.\n\nSome of the survivors are believed to have settled around the village of Kakahi ('freshwater mussels') which lies 30 kilometres west of Lake Taupo. They were discovered there by a party of Whanganui Māori journeying up the river of the same name, who soon called up reinforcements to attack the settlement. The Ngāti Hotu set up a ring of five forts around Kakahi which the Whanganui Māori attacked and took one by one until finally the last two, Otutaarua and Arikipakewa, fell. The final, brutal episode of the battle was played out on the flats between Kakahi and the Whanganui river when the now, effectively victorious Whanganui Māori hung the legs of fallen Ngāti Hotu warriors from poles mounted in the forks of trees - a gesture at which their remaining enemies broke and fled off into the depths of the King Country to vanish from history.\n\nThe battle is estimated to have occurred circa 1450 and its story has since been handed down through 15 generations to the Whanganui kaumatua Takiwa Tauarua, who related it to prominent New Zealand artist Peter McIntyre in the 1960s.\n"}
{"id": "47382593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382593", "title": "Ooni Ojelokunbirin", "text": "Ooni Ojelokunbirin\n\nOoni Ojelokunbirin was the 24th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Agbedegbede and was succeeded by \nOoni Lagunja.\n"}
{"id": "4135363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4135363", "title": "Orbital tuning", "text": "Orbital tuning\n\nOrbital tuning refers to the process of adjusting the time scale of a geologic or climate record so that the observed fluctuations correspond to the Milankovitch cycles in the Earth's orbital motion. Because changes in the Earth's orbit affect the amount and distribution of sunlight the Earth receives, such changes are expected to introduce periodic climate changes on time scales of 20-100 kyr. Long records of sedimentation or climate should record such variations; however, such records often have poorly constrained age scales. As a result, scientists will sometimes adjust the timing of the features in their records to match the predictions of orbital theory in the hopes of improving the dating accuracy. However, \"overtuning\" can result in apparent features that have no basis in the real data, such as occurred with the original SPECMAP record (Muller & MacDonald 2000).\n"}
{"id": "24290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24290", "title": "Pandora", "text": "Pandora\n\nIn Greek mythology, Pandora (Greek: , derived from , \"pān\", i.e. \"all\" and , \"dōron\", i.e. \"gift\", thus \"the all-endowed\", \"all-gifted\" or \"all-giving\") was the first human woman, created by Hephaestus on the instructions of Zeus. As Hesiod related it, each god co-operated by giving her unique gifts. Her other name — inscribed against her figure on a white-ground \"kylix\" in the British Museum —is Anesidora (), \"she who sends up gifts\" (\"up\" implying \"from below\" within the earth).\n\nThe Pandora myth is a kind of theodicy, addressing the question of why there is evil in the world. According to this, Pandora opened a jar (\"pithos\"), in modern accounts sometimes mistranslated as \"Pandora's box\", releasing all the evils of humanity. Hesiod's interpretation of Pandora's story, which is widely considered as misogynous, went on to influence both Jewish and Christian theology and so perpetuated her bad reputation into the Renaissance. Later poets, dramatists, painters and sculptors made her their subject and over the course of five centuries contributed new insights into her motives and significance.\n\nHesiod, both in his \"Theogony\" (briefly, without naming Pandora outright, line 570) and in \"Works and Days\", gives the earliest version of the Pandora story.\n\nThe Pandora myth first appears in lines 560–612 of Hesiod's poem in epic meter, the \"Theogony\" (ca. 8th–7th centuries BC), without ever giving the woman a name. After humans received the stolen gift of fire from Prometheus, an angry Zeus decides to give humanity a punishing gift to compensate for the boon they had been given. He commands Hephaestus to mold from earth the first woman, a \"beautiful evil\" whose descendants would torment the human race. After Hephaestus does so, Athena dresses her in a silvery gown, an embroidered veil, garlands and an ornate crown of silver. This woman goes unnamed in the \"Theogony\", but is presumably Pandora, whose myth Hesiod revisited in \"Works and Days\". When she first appears before gods and mortals, \"wonder seized them\" as they looked upon her. But she was \"sheer guile, not to be withstood by men.\" Hesiod elaborates (590–93):\n\n<poem>\nFrom her is the race of women and female kind:\nof her is the deadly race and tribe of women who\nlive amongst mortal men to their great trouble,\nno helpmates in hateful poverty, but only in wealth.</poem>\n\nHesiod goes on to lament that men who try to avoid the evil of women by avoiding marriage will fare no better (604–7):\n<poem>\nHe reaches deadly old age without anyone to tend his years,\nand though he at least has no lack of livelihood while he lives,\nyet, when he is dead, his kinsfolk divide his possessions amongst them.</poem>\n\nHesiod concedes that occasionally a man finds a good wife, but still (609) \"evil contends with good.\"\n\nThe more famous version of the Pandora myth comes from another of Hesiod's poems, \"Works and Days\". In this version of the myth (lines 60–105), Hesiod expands upon her origin, and moreover widens the scope of the misery she inflicts on humanity. As before, she is created by Hephaestus, but now more gods contribute to her completion (63–82): Athena taught her needlework and weaving (63–4); Aphrodite \"shed grace upon her head and cruel longing and cares that weary the limbs\" (65–6); Hermes gave her \"a shameful mind and deceitful nature\" (67–8); Hermes also gave her the power of speech, putting in her \"lies and crafty words\" (77–80) ; Athena then clothed her (72); next Persuasion and the Charites adorned her with necklaces and other finery (72–4); the Horae adorned her with a garland crown (75). Finally, Hermes gives this woman a name: Pandora – \"All-gifted\" – \"because all the Olympians gave her a gift\" (81). (In Greek, \"Pandora\" has an active rather than a passive meaning; hence, Pandora properly means \"All-giving.\" The implications of this mistranslation are explored in \"All-giving Pandora: mythic inversion?\" below.) In this retelling of her story, Pandora's deceitful feminine nature becomes the least of humanity's worries. For she brings with her a jar (which, due to textual corruption in the sixteenth century, came to be called a box) containing \"burdensome toil and sickness that brings death to men\" (91–2), diseases (102) and \"a myriad other pains\" (100). Prometheus had (fearing further reprisals) warned his brother Epimetheus not to accept any gifts from Zeus. But Epimetheus did not listen; he accepted Pandora, who promptly scattered the contents of her jar. As a result, Hesiod tells us, \"the earth and sea are full of evils\" (101). One item, however, did not escape the jar (96–9):\n<poem>\nOnly Hope was left within her unbreakable house,\nshe remained under the lip of the jar, and did not\nfly away. Before [she could], Pandora replaced the\nlid of the jar. This was the will of aegis-bearing\nZeus the Cloudgatherer.</poem>\n\nHesiod does not say why hope (\"elpis\") remained in the jar. and closes with the moral (105): \"Thus it is not possible to escape the mind of Zeus.\"\n\nHesiod also outlines how the end of man's Golden Age (an all-male society of immortals who were reverent to the gods, worked hard, and ate from abundant groves of fruit) was brought on by Prometheus. When he stole Fire from Mt. Olympus and gave it to mortal man, Zeus punished the technologically advanced society by creating woman. Thus, Pandora was created as the first woman and given the jar (mistranslated as 'box') which releases all evils upon man. The opening of the jar serves as the beginning of the Silver Age, in which man is now subject to death, and with the introduction of woman to birth as well, giving rise to the cycle of death and rebirth.\n\nArchaic and Classic Greek literature seem to make little further mention of Pandora, but mythographers later filled in minor details or added postscripts to Hesiod's account. For example, the \"Bibliotheca\" and Hyginus each make explicit what might be latent in the Hesiodic text: Epimetheus married Pandora. They each add that the couple had a daughter, Pyrrha, who married Deucalion and survived the deluge with him. However, the Hesiodic \"Catalogue of Women\", , had made a \"Pandora\" one of the \"daughters\" of Deucalion, and the mother of Graecus by Zeus. In the 15th-century AD an attempt was made to conjoin pagan and scriptural narrative by the monk Annio da Viterbo, who claimed to have found an account by the ancient Chaldean historian Berossus in which \"Pandora\" was named as a daughter-in-law of Noah in the alternative Flood narrative.\n\nThe mistranslation of \"pithos\", a large storage jar, as \"box\" is usually attributed to the sixteenth century humanist Erasmus of Rotterdam when he translated Hesiod's tale of Pandora into Latin. Hesiod's \"pithos\" refers to a large storage jar, often half-buried in the ground, used for wine, oil or grain. It can also refer to a funerary jar. Erasmus, however, translated \"pithos\" into the Latin word \"pyxis\", meaning \"box\". The phrase \"Pandora's box\" has endured ever since.\n\nHistoric interpretations of the Pandora figure are rich enough to have offered Dora and Erwin Panofsky scope for monographic treatment. M. L. West writes that the story of Pandora and her jar is from a pre-Hesiodic myth, and that this explains the confusion and problems with Hesiod's version and its inconclusiveness. He writes that in earlier myths, Pandora was married to Prometheus, and cites the ancient Hesiodic \"Catalogue of Women\" as preserving this older tradition, and that the jar may have at one point contained only good things for humanity. He also writes that it may have been that Epimetheus and Pandora and their roles were transposed in the pre-Hesiodic myths, a \"mythic inversion\". He remarks that there is a curious correlation between Pandora being made out of earth in Hesiod's story, to what is in the \"Bibliotheca\" that Prometheus created man from water and earth. Hesiod's myth of Pandora's jar, then, could be an amalgam of many variant early myths.\n\nThe meaning of Pandora's name, according to the myth provided in \"Works and Days\", is \"all-gifted\". However, according to others Pandora more properly means \"all-giving\". Certain vase paintings dated to the 5th century BC likewise indicate that the pre-Hesiodic myth of the goddess Pandora endured for centuries after the time of Hesiod. An alternative name for Pandora attested on a white-ground kylix (ca. 460 BC) is \"Anesidora\", which similarly means \"she who sends up gifts.\" This vase painting clearly depicts Hephaestus and Athena putting the finishing touches on the first woman, as in the \"Theogony\". Written above this figure (a convention in Greek vase painting) is the name \"Anesidora\". More commonly, however, the epithet \"anesidora\" is applied to Gaea or Demeter. In view of such evidence, William E. Phipps has pointed out, \"Classics scholars suggest that Hesiod reversed the meaning of the name of an earth goddess called Pandora (all-giving) or Anesidora (one-who-sends-up-gifts). Vase paintings and literary texts give evidence of Pandora as a mother earth figure who was worshipped by some Greeks. The main English commentary on \"Works and Days\" states that Hesiod shows no awareness [of this].\" \n\nJane Ellen Harrison also turned to the repertory of vase-painters to shed light on aspects of myth that were left unaddressed or disguised in literature. On a fifth-century amphora in the Ashmolean Museum (her fig.71) the half-figure of Pandora emerges from the ground, her arms upraised in the epiphany gesture, to greet Epimetheus. A winged \"ker\" with a fillet hovers overhead: \"Pandora rises from the earth; she \"is\" the Earth, giver of all gifts,\" Harrison observes. Over time this \"all-giving\" goddess somehow devolved into an \"all-gifted\" mortal woman. A.H. Smith, however, noted that in Hesiod's account Athena and the Seasons brought wreaths of grass and spring flowers to Pandora, indicating that Hesiod was conscious of Pandora's original \"all-giving\" function. For Harrison, therefore, Hesiod's story provides \"evidence of a shift from matriarchy to patriarchy in Greek culture. As the life-bringing goddess Pandora is eclipsed, the death-bringing human Pandora arises.\" Thus, Harrison concludes \"in the patriarchal mythology of Hesiod her great figure is strangely changed and diminished. She is no longer Earth-Born, but the creature, the handiwork of Olympian Zeus.\" (Harrison 1922:284). Robert Graves, quoting Harrison, asserts of the Hesiodic episode that \"Pandora is not a genuine myth, but an anti-feminist fable, probably of his own invention.\" H.J. Rose wrote that the myth of Pandora is decidedly more illiberal than that of epic in that it makes Pandora the origin of all of Man's woes with her being the exemplification of the bad wife.\n\nThe Hesiodic myth did not, however, completely obliterate the memory of the all-giving goddess Pandora. A scholium to line 971 of Aristophanes' \"The Birds\" mentions a cult \"to Pandora, the earth, because she bestows all things necessary for life\". And in fifth-century Athens, Pandora made a prominent appearance in what, at first, appears an unexpected context, in a marble relief or bronze appliqués as a frieze along the base of the \"Athena Parthenos\", the culminating experience on the Acropolis. Jeffrey M. Hurwit has interpreted her presence there as an \"anti-Athena.\" Both were motherless, and reinforced via opposite means the civic ideologies of patriarchy and the \"highly gendered social and political realities of fifth-century Athens\"—Athena by rising above her sex to defend it, and Pandora by embodying the need for it. Meanwhile, Pausanias (i.24.7) merely noted the subject and moved on.\n\nImages of Pandora began to appear on Greek pottery as early as the 5th century BCE, although identification of the scene represented is sometimes ambiguous. An independent tradition that does not square with any of the Classical literary sources is in the visual repertory of Attic red-figure vase-painters, which sometimes supplements, sometimes ignores, the written testimony; in these representations the upper part of Pandora is visible rising from the earth, \"a chthonic goddess like Gaia herself.\" Sometimes, but not always, she is labeled \"Pandora\". In some cases the figure of Pandora emerging from the earth is surrounded by figures carrying hammers in what has been suggested as a scene from a satyr play by Sophocles, \"Pandora, or The Hammerers\", of which only fragments remain. But there have also been alternative interpretations of such scenes.\n\nIn a late Pre-Raphaelite painting by John D. Batten, hammer-wielding workmen appear through a doorway, while in the foreground Hephaestus broods on the as yet unanimated figure of “Pandora”. There were also earlier English paintings of the newly created Pandora as surrounded by the heavenly gods presenting gifts, a scene also depicted on ancient Greek pottery. In one case it was part of a decorative scheme painted on the ceiling at Petworth House by Louis Laguerre in about 1720. William Etty’s \"Pandora Crowned by the Seasons\" of a century later is similarly presented as an apotheosis taking place among the clouds.\nIn between these two had come James Barry’s huge \"Birth of Pandora\", on which he laboured for over a decade at the turn of the nineteenth century. Well before that he was working on the design, which was intended to reflect his theoretical writings on the interdependence between history painting and the way it should reflect the ideal state. An early drawing, only preserved now in the print made of it by Luigi Schiavonetti, follows the account of Hesiod and shows Pandora being adorned by the Graces and the Hours while the gods look on. Its ideological purpose, however, was to demonstrate an equal society unified by the harmonious function of those within it. But in the actual painting which followed much later, a subordinated Pandora is surrounded by gift-bearing gods and Minerva stands near her, demonstrating the feminine arts proper to her passive role. The shift is back to the culture of blame whenever she steps outside it. \n\nIn the individual representations of Pandora that were to follow, her idealisation is as a dangerous type of beauty, generally naked or semi-naked. She is only differentiated from other paintings or statues of such females by being given the attribute of a jar or, increasingly in the 19th-century, a straight-sided box. As well as the many European paintings of her from this period, there are examples in sculptures by Henri-Joseph Ruxthiel (1819),John Gibson (1856), Pierre Loison (1861, see above) and Chauncy Bradley Ives (1871).\n\nThere is an additional reason why Pandora should appear nude, in that it was a theological commonplace going back to the early Church Fathers that the Classical myth of Pandora made her a type of Eve. Each is the first woman in the world; and each is a central character in a story of transition from an original state of plenty and ease to one of suffering and death, a transition which is brought about as a punishment for transgression of divine law. \n\nIt has been argued that it was as a result of the Hellenisation of Western Asia that the misogyny in Hesiod's account of Pandora began openly to influence both Jewish and then Christian interpretations of scripture. The doctrinal bias against women so initiated then continued into Renaissance times. Bishop Jean Olivier's long Latin poem \"Pandora\" drew on the Classical account as well as the Biblical to demonstrate that woman is the means of drawing men to sin. Originally appearing in 1541 and republished thereafter, it was soon followed by two separate French translations in 1542 and 1548. At the same period appeared a 5-act tragedy by the Protestant theologian Leonhard Culmann (1498-1568) titled \"Ein schön weltlich Spiel von der schönen Pandora\" (1544), similarly drawing on Hesiod in order to teach conventional Christian morality.\nThe equation of the two also occurs in the 1550 allegorical painting by Jean Cousin the Elder, \"Eva Prima Pandora\" (Eve the first Pandora), in which a naked woman reclines in a grotto. Her right elbow rests on a skull, indicating the bringing of death, and she holds an apple branch in that hand – both attributes of Eve. Her left arm is wreathed by a snake (another reference to the temptation of Eve) and that hand rests on an unstopped jar, Pandora's attribute. Above hangs the sign from which the painting gains its name and beneath it is a closed jar, perhaps the counterpart of the other in Olympus, containing blessings.\nIn Juan de Horozco's Spanish emblem book, \"Emblemas morales\" (1589), a motive is given for Pandora's action. Accompanying an illustration of her opening the lid of an urn from which demons and angels emerge is a commentary that condemns “female curiosity and the desire to learn by which the very first woman was deceived”. In the succeeding century that desire to learn was equated with the female demand to share the male prerogative of education. In Nicolas Regnier’s painting “The Allegory of Vanity” (1626), subtitled “Pandora”, it is typified by her curiosity about the contents of the urn that she has just unstopped and is compared to the other attributes of vanity surrounding her (fine clothes, jewellery, a pot of gold coins). Again, Pietro Paolini’s lively Pandora of about 1632 seems more aware of the effect that her pearls and fashionable headgear is making than of the evils escaping from the jar she holds. There is a social message carried by these paintings too, for education, no less than expensive adornment, is only available to those who can afford it.\nBut an alternative interpretation of Pandora’s curiosity makes it merely an extension of childish innocence. This comes out in portrayals of Pandora as a young girl, as in Walter Crane’s “Little Pandora” spilling buttons while encumbered by the doll she is carrying, in Arthur Rackham’s book illustration and Frederick Stuart Church’s etching of an adolescent girl taken aback by the contents of the ornamental box she has opened. The same innocence informs Odilon Redon’s 1910/12 clothed figure carrying a box and merging into a landscape suffused with light, and even more the 1914 version of a naked Pandora surrounded by flowers, a primaeval Eve in the Garden of Eden. Such innocence, “naked and without alarm” in the words of an earlier French poet, portrays Pandora more as victim of a conflict outside her comprehension than as temptress.\n\nEarly dramatic treatments of the story of Pandora are works of musical theatre. \"La Estatua de Prometeo\" (1670) by Pedro Calderón de la Barca is made an allegory in which devotion to learning is contrasted with the active life. Prometheus moulds a clay statue of Minerva, the goddess of wisdom to whom he is devoted, and gives it life from a stolen sunbeam. This initiates a debate among the gods whether a creation outside their own work is justified; his devotion is in the end rewarded with permission to marry his statue. In this work, Pandora, the statue in question, plays only a passive role in the competition between Prometheus and his brother Epimetheus (signifying the active life), and between the gods and men. \nAnother point to note about Calderón’s musical drama is that the theme of a statue married by her creator is more suggestive of the story of Pygmalion. The latter is also typical of Voltaire’s ultimately unproduced opera \"Pandore\" (1740). There too the creator of a statue animates it with stolen fire, but then the plot is complicated when Jupiter also falls in love with this new creation but is prevented by Destiny from consummating it. In revenge the god sends Destiny to tempt this new Eve into opening a box full of curses as a punishment for Earth’s revolt against Heaven. \n\nIf Pandora appears suspended between the roles of Eve and of Pygmalion’s creation in Voltaire’s work, in Charles-Pierre Colardeau’s erotic poem \"Les Hommes de Prométhée\" (1774) she is presented equally as a love-object and in addition as an unfallen Eve:\nHaving been fashioned from clay and given the quality of “naïve grace combined with feeling”, she is set to wander through an enchanted landscape. There she encounters the first man, the prior creation of Prometheus, and warmly responds to his embrace. At the end the couple quit their marriage couch and survey their surroundings “As sovereigns of the world, kings of the universe”. \n\nOne other musical work with much the same theme was Aumale de Corsenville's one-act verse melodrama \"Pandore\", which had an overture and incidental music by Franz Ignaz Beck. There Prometheus, having already stolen fire from heaven, creates a perfect female, “artless in nature, of limpid innocence”, for which he anticipates divine vengeance. However, his patron Minerva descends to announce that the gods have gifted Pandora with other qualities and that she will become the future model and mother of humanity. The work was performed on 2 July 1789, on the very eve of the French Revolution, and was soon forgotten in the course of the events that followed.\n\nOver the course of the 19th century the story of Pandora was interpreted in radically different ways by four dramatic authors in four countries. In two of these she was presented as the bride of Epimetheus; in the two others she was the wife of Prometheus. The earliest of these works was the lyrical dramatic fragment by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, written between 1807-8. Though it bears the title \"Pandora\", what exists of the play revolves round Epimetheus’ longing for the return of the wife who has abandoned him and has yet to arrive. It is in fact a philosophical transformation of Goethe's passion in old age for a teenaged girl. \n\nHenry Wadsworth Longfellow’s \"The Masque of Pandora\" dates from 1876. It begins with her creation, her refusal by Prometheus and acceptance by Epimetheus. Then in the latter’s house an “oaken chest, Carven with figures and embossed with gold” attracts her curiosity. After she eventually gives in to temptation and opens it, she collapses in despair and a storm destroys the garden outside. When Epimetheus returns, she begs him to kill her but he accepts joint responsibility. The work was twice used as the basis for operas by Alfred Cellier in 1881 and by Eleanor Everest Freer in 1933. Iconographical elements from the masque also figure in Walter Crane's large watercolour of Pandora of 1885. She is pictured as sprawled over a carved wooden chest on which are embossed golden designs of the three fates who figure as a chorus in Longfellow's scene 3. Outside the palace, a high wind is bending the trees. But on the front of the chest, a medallion showing the serpent wound about the tree of knowledge recalls the old interpretation of Pandora as a type of Eve. \n\nIn England the high drama of the incident was travestied in James Robinson Planché’s \"Olympic Revels or Prometheus and Pandora\" (1831), the first of the Victorian burlesques. It is a costume drama peppered with comic banter and songs during which the gods betroth Pandora to a disappointed Prometheus with “only one little box” for dowry. When she opens it, Jupiter descends to curse her and Prometheus, but Hope emerges from the box and negotiates their pardon.\n\nAt the other end of the century, Gabriel Fauré’s ambitious opera Prométhée (1900) had a cast of hundreds, a huge orchestra and an outdoor amphitheatre for stage. It was based in part on the \"Prometheus Bound\" of Aeschylus but was rewritten so as to give the character of Pandore an equal part with his. This necessitated her falling “as if dead” on hearing the judgement against Prométhée in Act 1; a funeral procession bearing her body at the start of Act 2, after which she revives to mourn the carrying out of Prométhée's sentence; while in Act 3 she disobeys Prométhée by accepting a box, supposedly filled with blessings for mankind, and makes the tragedy complete. \n\nThe pattern during the 19th century had only repeated that of the nearly three millennia before it. The ancient myth of Pandora never settled into one accepted version, was never agreed to have a single interpretation. It was used as a vehicle to illustrate the prevailing ideologies or artistic fashions of the time and eventually became so worn a coinage that it grew confused with other, sometimes later, stories. Best known in the end for a single metaphorical attribute, the box with which she was not even endowed until the 16th century, depictions of Pandora have been further confused with other holders of receptacles – with one of the trials of Psyche, with Sophonisba about to drink poison or Artemisia with the ashes of her husband. Nevertheless, her very polyvalence has been in the end the guarantor of her cultural survival.\n\n"}
{"id": "42768428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42768428", "title": "People's democracy (Marxism–Leninism)", "text": "People's democracy (Marxism–Leninism)\n\nPeople's democracy was a theoretical concept within Marxism–Leninism (and a form of government in communist states) which developed after World War II, which allowed in theory for a multi-class, multi-party democracy on the pathway to socialism. Prior to the rise of Fascism, communist parties had called for Soviet Republics to be implemented throughout the world, such as the Chinese Soviet Republic or William Z. Foster's book \"Towards Soviet America\". However, after the rise of fascism, and the creation of the popular front governments in France and Spain, the Comintern under Bulgarian Communist leader Georgi Dimitrov began to advocate for a broad multi-class united front as opposed to the pure proletarian dictatorship of the Soviets. The possibility of a trans-class democracy was first put forward during the popular front period against Fascism.\n\nGyörgy Lukács was one of the first to suggest the possibility of Communists working for a democratic republic in his so-called Blum Thesis of 1929. Lukacs recounted in 1967: \nIt is hard for most people to imagine how paradoxical this sounded then. Although the Sixth Congress of the Third International did mention this as a possibility, it was generally thought to be historically impossible to take such a retrograde step, as Hungary had already been a soviet republic in 1919.\n\nJoseph Stalin, who had been in Soviet administration throughout the Russian Civil War and its aftermath, well remembered how the attempt to fight Bolshevik-style revolutions throughout Europe during and after World War I—the revolutions of 1917–23—had mostly failed. (Many Old Bolsheviks had thought at the time that these revolutions were the vanguard of the world revolution, but the latter never materialized.) It was this very reality that had driven the development of the idea of Socialism in One Country as the Soviet Union's own path. With such historical lessons in mind, at the end of World War II Stalin suggested to the leaders of Eastern European communist parties that they should present themselves as advocates of a \"people's democracy\". After the defeat of Nazi Germany and its allies in Eastern Europe, Marxist–Leninist theoreticians first began expanding on the idea of a possible peaceful transition to socialism, given the presence of the Soviet Red Army. In most areas of Eastern Europe, the Communist Parties did not immediately take power directly but instead worked in Popular Coalitions with progressive parties. Unlike the Soviet Union, which was officially a one-party state, a majority of people's democracies of Eastern Europe were theoretically multi-party states. Many of the ruling Leninist parties no longer called themselves Communist in their official title as they had in the 1930s. The Socialist Unity Party of Germany for instance was ostensibly a union of the Social Democratic Party of Germany and the Communist Party of Germany. Many of the other European states were ruled by Worker's or Socialist Parties. In the Eastern Bloc, \"People's democracy\" was a synonym for socialist state.\n\nMao Zedong proposed a similar idea of a cross-class democracy in the 1940 essay \"On New Democracy\". In 1949 he would make a speech on the people's democratic dictatorship.\n\nThe people's democratic model would later be applied to socialist states in Asia, including China, Laos, North Korea and Vietnam.\n\nWhile people's democracies were considered a form of the dictatorship of the proletariat, classes such as the peasantry, petite bourgeoisie and progressive bourgeoisie were allowed to participate.\n\nThe difference between people's democracy and Soviet democracy allowed the USSR to maintain a position of superiority as the only pure proletarian democracy. Nikita Khrushchev explicitly stated that the possibility of peaceful transition to people's democracy was predicated in the global strength of the USSR as a superpower.\n\nThe Soviet Textbook \"A Dictionary of Scientific Communism\" defined people's democracy as follows: \nTrotskyists and other dissident anti-Stalinist Communists were against the idea of people's democracy which they saw as denying the Leninist insistence on the class essence of all state power.\n\nThe Marxists Internet Archive dictionary critiques people's democracy as follows: \n"}
{"id": "5636221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5636221", "title": "Peter Kolosimo", "text": "Peter Kolosimo\n\nPeter Kolosimo, pseudonym of Pier Domenico Colosimo (15 December 1922 – 23 March 1984), was an Italian journalist and writer. He is ranked amongst the founders of pseudoarchaeology (in Italian: \"fantarcheologia\"), a controversial topic which aims to study the origins of ancient civilizations using theories and methods not accepted by the scientific community. He also popularised ancient astronaut theories of contact between extraterrestrial beings and ancient human civilizations.\n\nOf Italian-American origins, he was born in Modena, and lived in Bolzano, Turin and Milan. In 1969 he won the Premio Bancarella, one of Italy's most prestigious literary prizes, for \"Non è terrestre\" (\"Not of this World\"). His books were translated in 60 countries, including Russia, Japan and China.\n\nKolosimo also founded and coordinated the Italian Association for Prehistoric Studies (ASP).\n\nHe died in Milan in 1984.\n\nKolosimo's claims about ancient astronauts influencing human civilizations are considered to be pseudohistory.\n\nIn a critical three part review for Kolosimo's \"Not of This World\", Jason Colavito has noted that the book fabricated evidence, mistranslated sources and conflated science fiction and fact. In the book Kolosimo had claimed that some of H. P. Lovecraft's fictional ideas were factual. According to Colavito \"the book, overall, is a discursive pile of Fortean nonsense in the very worst of the European tradition.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55577051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55577051", "title": "Plato's Academy mosaic", "text": "Plato's Academy mosaic\n\nPlato's Academy mosaic was created in the villa of T. Siminius Stephanus in Pompeii, around 100 BC to 100 CE.\n\nThe mosaic has been interpreted to depict as the central figure Plato pointing with a stick at the globe. Mattusch 2008 suggests for the other figures, the Greek philosophers and scholars: Thales, Anaxagoras, Pythagoras, Xenophanes, Democritus, Eudoxus, Euctemon, Callippus, Meton, Philippus, Hipparchus, and Aratus. However, Mattusch also points out that the number of figures could relate to the Seven Sages of Greece, and points out that the sages often had fluid identities.\n\nEleven statues were found in Memphis, Egypt. A review of \"Les Statues Ptolémaïques du Sarapieion de Memphis\" noted they were probably sculpted in the 3rd century with limestone and stucco, some standing others sitting. Rowe and Rees 1956 noted that the theme was similar to Plato's Academy mosaic, and perhaps also used on 19th Century sighted statues with roles, at Serapeum of Alexandria. Statues at Memphis were attributed to: \"(1) Pindare, (2) Démétrios de Phalère, (3) x (?), (4) Orphée (?) aux oiseaux, (5) Hésiode, (6) Homère, (7) x (?), (8) Protagoras, (9) Thalès, (10) Héraclite, (11) Platon, (12) Aristote (?).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25911360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25911360", "title": "Primary Alert System", "text": "Primary Alert System\n\nThe Primary Alerting System (PAS), was a network of land-line connections used by the Strategic Air Command (SAC) for command and control of its nuclear forces. PAS provided immediate and simultaneous voice communications to all (SAC) unit command posts and missile launch control facilities.\n\nPAS reached each Command Post by two geographically diversified circuits; one circuit, commonly called the \"front-door\" circuit tied the unit directly to Headquarters (SAC); the other, or \"back-door\" circuit provided a link to the parent Numbered Air Force.\n\n"}
{"id": "58752695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58752695", "title": "Rebecca Sweetman", "text": "Rebecca Sweetman\n\nRebecca Jane Sweetman is Professor of Ancient History and Archaeology at the University of St Andrews. Sweetman is known in particular for her work on the archaeology of Roman and Late Antique Greece. \n\nSweetman studied Archaeology and Classics at University College Dublin. She spent a year working on excavations and then completed her PhD at the University of Nottingham on the Roman and Early Christian Mosaics of Crete. She was the Assistant Director of the British School at Athens from 2000 to 2003 and then moved to the University of St Andrews as a lecturer in Ancient History and Archaeology in 2003. She has been Professor of Ancient History and Archaeology since 1st August 2016.\n\nFrom 2015 to 2016, Sweetman worked on the Christianization of the Cyclades in the late antique period with her Carnegie Trust funded project 'The Late Antique Cyclades: Landscapes, Networks and Christianization'.\n\nIn 2015, Sweetman was awarded a Leverhulme Trust Major Fellowship for the project ‘The Roman and Late Antique Cyclades: Networks, Economy and Religion’. The project ran from 2016 to 2018 and included the conference 'Landscapes of Movement: Religious space and topography of the Cyclades, 8th century BCE to 8th century CE' at the University of St Andrews (25th-26th May 2017).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33398353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33398353", "title": "Safa Khulusi", "text": "Safa Khulusi\n\nSafa Abdul-Aziz Khulusi (; 1917–1995) was an Iraqi historian, novelist, poet, journalist and broadcaster. He is known for mediating between Arabic- and English-language cultures, and for his scholarship of modern Iraqi literature. He is also remembered for his theories on Arabic grammar, on Shakespeare, as well as his role in Islamic education and his work on the poetry of al-Mutanabbi.\n\nKhulusi was born in Baghdad, the son of a lawyer. His mother died when he was four years old. His family originates from Khanaqin. His grandfather resettled the family in Baghdad where he served as an officer in the Ottoman army, but was killed during the military withdrawal from Mesopotamia at the end of World War I.\nKhulusi was inspired to pursue a literary career from an early age by his uncle, the novelist and poet Abdul-Majid Lutfi. Khulusi travelled to London in 1935 on an academic scholarship, living there until the latter stages of World War II and insisting on staying in the city during The Blitz. He returned to Iraq late in the war.\n\nAn Arab nationalist, Khulusi refused a ministerial position in the post-war British administration of Iraq. Instead, he divided his time between Britain and Iraq, establishing an academic career in both countries. His first novel \"Nifous Maridha\" (Sick Souls) was published in 1941, when he was 24 years old. His first academic post was as a lecturer in Arabic Studies at the School of Oriental and African Studies, London University. During his tenure (1945–50) he completed a PhD in Arabic literature in 1947. In 1951 he was appointed as Professor of Arabic at the University of Baghdad. He also served as head of the Arabic Department at Al-Mustansiriya University.\n\nIn 1959, Khulusi married Sabiha Al-Dabbagh (1922–1998), one of the first women to graduate as a medical doctor in Iraq. Following postgraduate training in the United States she returned to practice in Baghdad, where she was introduced to Khulusi. She later became a regular contributor to health programmes on the Arabic section of the BBC World Service and a campaigner for women's health in the Middle East. The couple had two children, a son and a daughter.\n\nKhulusi's work mediated modern European and American developments in scholarship. He extended the academic tradition of comparative literature, publishing \"Dirasat fi al-Adab al-Muqarin wa al-Mathahib al-Adabia\" (Studies in Comparative Literature and Western Literary Schools) in 1957, and \"al-Tarjama al-Tahlilia\" (Analytical Translation) in the same year. Although concentrating on literary and historical scholarship, Khulusi also published novels, short stories and poetry during this period. In addition, he translated modern Iraqi literature into English, publishing a number of translations of the work of Atika Wahbi Al-Khazraji. In Oxford in 1972, he became one of the editors of the \"Concise Oxford English-Arabic Dictionary of Current Usage\" which sought to match new developments in both languages. He later published \"A Dictionary of Contemporary Idiomatic Usage.\" His books \"Fann al-Tarjama\" (The Art of Translation) and \"Fann al-Taqti' al-Shi'ri wa al-Qafia\" (The Art of Poetry: Composition and Prosody) were widely read and went through many editions. He was also a regular broadcaster on the BBC's Arabic service and a presenter of cultural programmes on Iraqi television.\n\nWhile participating in the Arabic literary revival Khulusi attempted to remain ‘neutral’ in the unstable politics of the era. In 1958 the king Faisal II of Iraq and his family were overthrown in a violent revolution. One of their executioners was an army officer who had been one of Khulusi's students. Many years later, when Khulusi met the man again and questioned him on his role in the king's death, the former student answered \"all I did was remember Palestine, and the trigger on the machine-gun just set itself off\". During Saddam Hussein's regime Khulusi spent most of his time in England where he enjoyed a greater freedom of expression in his writing, returning to Iraq for a couple of months a year to avoid the English winter. On one such visit, he explained to a friend who asked why he didn't remain in Baghdad permanently, \"Our roots are here, but it's there that we flower best.\"\n\nKhulusi was a devout Muslim. He was one of a group of scholars who assisted in the academic and religious reformation of the madrasas in Najaf. Khulusi was elected Chairman of the National Muslim Education Council of the UK. He sought to improve Islamic education, while also supporting co-operation between faiths. He also defended traditions of tolerance within Islam. He wrote widely for Muslim publications.\n\nIn his book \"Islam Our Choice\", first published in 1961, Khulusi set out a collection of personal accounts from individuals who converted to Islam from other religions. The extracts, many sourced from \"The Islamic Review\", were collected over a number of years and provide an insight into the spiritual, social and cultural factors that led influential individuals to embrace Islam in the first half of the 20th Century.\n\nTwo of the more famous converts included by Khulusi were the Irish peer Rowland Allanson-Winn, 5th Baron Headley (1855–1935) and the English baronet Sir 'Abdullah' Archibald Hamilton 5th and 3rd Baronet (1876–1939). The former became known by the adopted Muslim name Shaikh Rahmatullah al-Farooq. He converted to Islam in 1913 and went on to write several books on Islam, including \"A Western Awakening to Islam\" (1914) and \"Three Great Prophets of the World\" (1923). The latter, like many others in the book, was attracted to the 'simple purity' of Islam. \n\nOther common themes amongst Western converts to Islam are largely summarised by the American Donald Rockwell, who became a Muslim in 1935. He was inspired by the religion's teachings on temperance and moderation, by its broadminded tolerance of other faiths and by its freedom from idolatry. He also cites Islam's rules on charity and the pioneering declaration on Women's property rights. He remarks on the earnestness of the faithful in answering the call to prayer and the compelling atmosphere of the great mosques of the East in fostering contemplation and self-effacement. Colonel Rockwell was Editor-in-Chief of \"Radio Personalities\" and author of \"Beyond the Brim\" and \"Bazaar of Dreams.\"\n\nAnother part of Khulusi's book details some of the influential non-Muslim writers who showed a regard for Islamic teaching, culture and history during the Age of Enlightenment. Amongst these is Simon Ockley, a Cambridge scholar, who is noted for his book \"History of the Saracens\" (1712–18), a remarkable publication for its time, because of its generous tone towards Islam. Voltaire is also included for his fight for religious tolerance, outlined in the passionate \"Traité sur la Tolérance,\" (1763). \nGotthold Lessing, hampered by the censor, gives his ideas the shape of a drama, \"Nathan der Weise\" (1779), which he bases on the Oriental legend of the \"Three Rings.\" The play, regarded as a defence of religious tolerance and religious values, was later translated into many languages.\n\nJohann Gottfried Herder, an outstanding scholar of theology, approaches the Arabic field through a scholarship of Hebrew literature and poetry. Herder achieves knowledge of Arabic civilisation and becomes familiar with the pre-Muslim poems of the \"Mu'allaqat\", translated and published by Sir William Jones (1783). He earnestly describes Muhammad as \"an accomplished offspring of his tribe and town, of his nation and of its history, and a genius in its magnificent language.\"\n\nIn his schooldays Johann Wolfgang von Goethe acquired a copy of the Qur'an in the Classical Latin translation of 1698, which had been re-edited in Leipzig in 1740. The original translation was the work of Louis Maracci (a scholar working with Pope Innocent XI). Goethe translated some of the passages into German and began to design a play about Muhammad, fragments of which remain. \"Mahomet's Nachthymne\" is a poem from 1773, the last strophe of which is a monologue of Muhammad and is one of the fragments of the unfinished play. For the first time in Western literature, Goethe represented Muhammad as a prophet of God.\n\nGoethe devoted himself to Oriental studies during the latter stages of the Napoleonic Wars. The result was the \"West Eastern Divan\" (1819), which comprises a garland of verses in an Oriental style, deep interpretations of Eastern thought and profound love poems and a set of scholarly essays. In the remarkable prose essays \"Noten und Anhandlungen\" Goethe gives the background to Hebrew, Arabic and Persian poetry. The chapter on Muhammad gives the fundamentals of Islam and a character-sketch of the Prophet.\n\nGoethe's Oriental studies are considered an 'escape' from war-ridden Europe to a more peaceful East, where the poet views 'a wise religion, a contented civilisation and elements of the patriarchal age'. This escape he refers to in the title of his poem \"Hejira.\" In the poem he says, \"When North and West and South splinter, thrones burst and empires tremble, flee to the pure East and breathe the air of the patriarchs.\" There follows what appears to be the motto of the \"Divan\": \n\n(God is the Orient, God is the Occident, The North and the South, all rest in the Peace of His hands) which seems to be a free rendering in accomplished verse of Sura' II, 115 from the Qur'an.\n\nThomas Carlyle became an inspired and re-inspiring pupil of Goethe, corresponding with him from 1820 until Goethe's death in 1832. He delivered a series of lectures on heroic leadership which were later compiled into a book, \"Heroes and Hero-worship\" (1840). The second lecture was devoted to Muhammad and Islam, in which he refutes misrepresentations \"that are disgraceful to ourselves\" and gives his own deeply personal and respectful views of Islam based on historic events. He goes on to quote the words of Goethe: “We resign ourselves to God. If this be Islam, do we not all live in Islam?”\n\nKhulusi's book suggests that Western appreciation of Islam became unambiguous and overt in scholastic works during the Age of Enlightenment. It then flourished further as the desire grew for an understanding of the essentials of faith. However, amongst notable intellectuals the impetus had its roots long before then and was intertwined with the quest to learn the language and understand the culture of the Arabs. By the 20th century, appreciation of Islam was also joined by conversion to the religion by those in the West who wished to be associated more closely with the fundamental teachings and practices of Islam.\n\nHis novel \"Abu Nuwas fi Amrika\" (Abu Nuwas in America), written during Khulusi's sojourn in Chicago, has been called an \"hilarious satire\" recounting the extraordinary adventures that befall the Abbasid poet Abu Nuwas, wine- and boy-lover, when he is miraculously transported into America, from his presence on a stamp brought into that country. Part parody of Arabic works on the bewildering experience of life in the West, part picaresque novel, it has the hero tour the louche subcultures, gay and heterosexual, of America from Queens through Las Vegas to Los Angeles, while rising ineluctably to become an authority in the United States on the Arab world.\n\nNotwithstanding the high satiric energy of the novel, Khulusi's intention was to introduce American culture to an Arab readership. He compares Iraqi and American nationalism and the practice of religion in his adopted culture with the Muslim faith. He concludes that, just as American identity comes from a melting pot of peoples, so too is Arab identity, a cultural commitment by peoples of markedly different ethnic background who have come to intermarry, and replace the allegiance of blood with an attachment to a shared language and culture.\n\nAbi't-Tayyib al-Mutanabbi (d. 965) is considered by Khulusi to be one of the greatest poets of the Arabic language. His work centres on the philosophy of life and praise for his Abbasid Caliph patrons and their military conquests. His extensive work was revised in the latter part of his life by another great poet and friend of the time, Abu al-Fatah Othman Ibn Jinni (d.1002). The revised manuscript was lost for almost ten centuries after Ibn Jinni's death before being rediscovered. In a seminal two volume encyclopedic publication, Khulusi painstakingly dissects out the work of Ibn Jinni and provides linguistic annotations to the alterations made to the original manuscript. He notes that Ibn Jinni's \"Commentary\" also reveals important new details about al-Mutanabbi's life.\n\nWhile at the court of Sayf al-Dawla, Ibn Jinni reports that al-Mutanabbi was \"presumptuous and forward in his speech and very bold in addressing Sayf al-Dawla.\" Some of the lines in the elegy of his patron's mother, as well as those of his late sister, Princess Khawla, were in poor taste. \"The eloquent poets would not dare to sing here a single verse but I do, because I am a brave lion!\" Al-Mutanabbi is said to have announced. Ibn Jinni goes on to say that al-Mutanabbi's words and expressions were used in such a way that \"they did not incur the wrath of kings and princes.\" According to Khulusi, this opinion was not shared by other commentators of the time and that he certainly made an enemy of a prominent member of Sayf al-Dawla's court, Fatik al-Asadi, by repeatedly referring to him using the epithet \"al-Majnoon\" (the mad man).\n\nal-Mutanabbi later joined the court of Abu al-Misk Kafur in Egypt. Khulusi points out that the \"Commentary\" is the first evidence that Ibn Jinni himself was in Egypt at the same time. al-Mutanabbi's refusal to compose a eulogy for Ibn Hinzabah (Kafur's Minister) was a profound insult. \"He was the main gate to Kafur but Mutanabbi did not pass through it\" laments Ibn Jinni, adding that he compounded matters by \"his persistent reference to Kafur's blackness.\" Ibn Jinni claims that he received information from Ibn Hinzabah that al-Mutanabbi \"was close to the claws of death\" and that \"he brought this upon himself.\" Ibn Jinni credits himself with saving al-Mutanabbi's life and by warning his friend, possibly risking his own. Both men fled Egypt out of fear for their lives and empty handed.\n\nIn terms of their work together, Ibn Jinni defends al-Mutanabbi and says that many poets and critics were jealous of him, adding \"but whoever was above the ill speech and jealousy of people?\" According to Khulusi, this ill feeling was not restricted to literary criticism but extended to personal insults against family members.\n\nIbn Jinni claims that al-Mutanabbi broke the rules of Arabic rhyme, and of propriety and Khulusi says that the \"Commentary\" is in parts a 'battleground' where the poet and the compiler disagree intensely over certain words and phrases. A prime example is also one of the most contentious lines in al-Mutanabbi's poetry, where he disrespectfully refers to the Prophet Muhammad as \"The brightest miracle of the Tihami.\" Ibn Jinni retains this term in his manuscript but qualifies the entire verse with \"shani al-zahir\" (of scandalous appearance). He adds that al-Mutanabbi was unconvincing with his excuses. Nevertheless, he also remarks that personal opinions and religious beliefs have nothing to do with the quality of the poetry. Khulusi commends Ibn Jinni for not setting religious or moral boundaries that would have diminished the work.\n\nAnother criticism that Ibn Jinni levels at the poet relates to his excessive repetition of certain words. \"I told him, you use \"tha\" (this) and \"thi\" (this) a great deal in your poetry.\" al-Mutanabbi responds that the poetry was not all composed at one and the same time. According to Khulusi, Ibn Jinni did not simply accept the material that he was presented with but meticulously scrutinised every verse in terms of its language and its aesthetic quality.\n\nKhulusi notes that the \"Commentary\" shows evidence that Ibn Jinni played several literary roles as a compiler, reviser, critic and copy editor. He complains however that the greatest difficulty that an editor of Ibn Jinni's \"Commentary\" has, is with regards to the hundreds of quotations and annotations that are either illegible or misquoted. He provides examples of the misquoted terms that he is able to check against the original texts cited by Ibn Jinni. Some of the sources were made available to Khulusi by The National Museum of Iraq. He speculates that Ibn Jinni must have either been quoting from memory or using copies that contained variations on the texts that he was able to find.\n\nIn the introduction to his \"Commentary\", Ibn Jinni claims that he has verses in his \"Diwan\", that are not included by other editors, which will make \"people dispense of all other versions.\" He later adds that the reference point for alterations in his manuscript was al-Mutanabbi himself and that other manuscripts did not enjoy this advantage. Khulusi compares Ibn Jinni's manuscript with others of al-Mutanabbi's poetry, compiled by various editors, including one held in the British Museum. He identifies the additional verses and other significant variations that he believes are due to emendations by scholars attempting to compensate for the linguistic inconsistencies that al-Mutanabbi was famous for.\n\nIn his \"Commentary\" Ibn Jinni boasts that he has discerned \"the strong and weak parts of al-Mutanabbi's art.\" Khulusi says that this claim receives a caustic response from one of his contemporaries, Sa'd al-Azdi: “to Ibn Jinni when the construction of al-Mutanabbi is unintelligible, it is a sign of the strength of the art!” \n\nKhulusi reports that some of the annotations in the \"Commentary\" are made by individuals other than Ibn Jinni. He identifies some by name while others remain unknown. He remarks that a number of comments ‘scribbled’ in the margins are highly critical of the work and must have been made after the manuscript left Ibn Jinni's possession. One of the nameless interlopers exasperates at the disregard for the position of the prophets in the work: “This likening of ordinary people to the prophets – may God have peace on them – is unbecoming!” The comment refers to al-Mutanabbi's line that “every word on Kafur’s ears is like Joseph’s shirt on Jacob’s eyes.” \n\nIn other parts of his analysis, Khulusi remarks on a number of characteristics of the poetry, including styles of verse popular amongst later scholars. One rendered example being: \n\nIn addition, he identifies lines that produced conflicting interpretations by different critics at the time, one illustration being:\n\nAccording to Khulusi, Ibn Jinni's recension is likely to have been completed after al-Mutanabbi death as the poems are arranged alphabetically rather than in the chronological order of other manuscripts. In addition, Ibn Jinni uses the posthumous formula: ‘may God have mercy on him’ when referring to another editor of al-Mutanabbi's work. Khulusi believes that based on the evidence contained in the \"Commentary\", Ibn Jinni's version is probably the most faithful representation of the \"Diwan\" as it was intended by al-Mutanabbi.\n\nKhulusi's book \"Studies in Comparative Literature and Western Literary Schools\" (1957) provides a critical examination of some of the earliest manuscripts written in the Arabic language, focusing particularly on those that have influenced Western literature and culture.\n\nKhulusi notes that it was during the Caliphate of Abu Ja'far al-Mansur (d.775) that the first Arabic version of \"Kalila wa Dimna\" came to light together with other works of the same literary style, namely \"al-Adab al-kabir\" (Greater Book of Manners) and \"al-Adab al-saghir\" (Lesser Book of Manners). The translation of \"Kalila wa Dimna\" from Middle Persian by the scholar Abdullah Ibn al-Muqaffa' (d.757) provides the first major Arabic literary prose narrative. Khulusi carries out a detailed examination of Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s work and identifies parallels with the early tales of \"The Arabian Nights\". He proposes that Ibn al-Muqaffa' may have played a part in the development of \"The Nights,\" and bases his theory on a number of features.\n\nFrame story collection: Khulusi reports similarities between the frame-story of \"The Nights\" and that of \"Kalila wa Dimna.\" Both have a tyrant king who is only pacified by a single storyteller. In \"The Nights\" Sassanid King Shahrayar is pacified by Shahrazad's tales. In \"Kalila wa Dimna\" the sage Bidpai and his fables pacify King Dabshalim. In their Arabic form both books originate in the early Abbasid period, combine seriousness with mirth, cater for the 'elite' reader and have another more 'common' side, combine Arab with Persian culture and originate from Middle Persian. \"The Nights\" begins with \"The Tale of the Ox and the Ass,\" and the opening of \"Kalila wa Dimna\" is with \"The Tale of the Lion and the Ox.\" He remarks that a number of stories in \"The Nights,\" could be paralleled with those of \"Kalila wa Dimna\" such as the small collection of beast tales in the 146th Night.\n\nSocial factor: Khulusi traces Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s negative view of women through his known works. He finds strident reference to the \"lack of permanence of women's love\" and their \"deceptiveness\" in \"al-Adab al-saghir\" (p. 75). This is repeated with some modification in \"Kalila wa Dimna\" (p. 208). He notes that this view is reiterated in a more protracted passage in \"al-Adab al-kabir\" and finds a similar attitude in several tales of \"The Nights,\" as well as in the frame-story, where King Shahrayar's wife betrays him with his servants, and Shah Zamaan is deceived by his wife, and the partner of the \" 'lfrit\" (Demon) also betrays him.\n\n\"Indeed one woman is more like any other, than any food in comparison with any other, and what people possess in the way of food is more diverse and of greater variation than what they have in the way of wives\" declares Ibn al-Muqaffa in \"al-Adab al-kabir\" (p. 99–100). Khulusi finds an allusion to this in \"Kalila wa Dimna\" and a parallel theme in Night 569: \"A Tale That Implies the Wile of Women and that their Deceit is Great,\" where the king is offered ninety dishes to eat from, each different in appearance but all tasting exactly the same. The dishes are likened to his ninety concubines, all different in looks and yet the same in their tastes and thoughts.\n\nLinguistic style: Khulusi identifies Ibn al-Muqaffa' as a \"Mutarassil\" (epistolary writer) as opposed to a \"Musajji' \" (rhymed-prose writer). \"The Nights\" is more akin to \"Tarassul\" than to \"saj'.\" He points out that although \"The Nights\" has had significant changes and additions by various contributors, parts of it still retains the distinct vocabulary and style of Ibn al-Muqaffa'. The most obvious being the terms \"Ayyuha 'l-Malik al-Sa'id\" (0 Felicitous King) and \"Qaala wa kayfa kaana dhaalik?\" (He said, and how was that?). In addition, there is in \"The Nights\" the same simplicity of diction, lucidity of unrhymed prose, similarity of aim and theme as well as the cynicism and repetition that Ibn al-Muqaffa' displays in his known work.\n\nReligion: Ibn al-Muqaffa' was a Magian who embraced Islam under the influence of 'Isa Ibn 'Ali, the uncle of al-Mansur. Khulusi believes that Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s earlier creed finds reflections in his writing even after his conversion. He also notes that Magian sentiments are found in \"The Nights\" and describes how Magian rites are recorded with an unnatural and unapologetic style. Shirkan, the son of 'Umar al-Nu'man, marries his sister (Night No.86, Suhail edition, Vol. II, p. 207). According to Khulusi, the author does not display any negative sentiments and records this as an act of fate and the child born of incest is named \"Qudhiya fa-kaan\" (She was decreed and born). He also notes that proper names that have some connection with 'light' abound in the stories of \"The Nights.\"\n\nIbn al-Muqaffa' was suspected of being a \"Zindiq\" (heretic or 'free-thinker') by the Islamic authorities of his time, in part because of his previous creed. Khulusi believes that in addition to his known works, he is therefore likely to have published anonymously, or attributed work to other authors such as \"Kitab al-Taaj\" of al-Jahidh, or concealed his views as quotations in larger works as \"Siyar Muluk al-'Ajam\" in \" 'Uyun al-Akhbaar\" of Ibn Qutaybah and \" 'Ahd Ardashir\" (The Covenant of Ardashir), and in \"Tajaarib al-'Uman\" (Experiments of The Nations) of Ibn Miskawayh. In \"The Nights,\" it would have been very easy for him to hide entire stories anonymously and Khulusi suspects that the entire tale of \"King Jili'ad\" is the work of Ibn al-Muqaffa'.\n\nOther factors: In the 10th century, some two hundred years after Ibn al-Muqaffa', \"al-Fihrist\" (The Catalogue of Books) was published by Abu'l-Faraj bin Is'hāq al-Nadim. This provides an inventory of books known at that time (mainly those in the Arabic language). It states that the general framework of \"The Nights\" was derived from the Middle Persian collection \"Hazaar Afsaanah\" (thousand fables). The translator and author of the stories in their Arabic form is unknown to al-Nadim. He records that Abdus al-Jahshiyari (d.942) compiled the stories that were available at that time into a book with additional tales from local story-tellers. Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s known works including \"Kalila wa Dimna\" are listed in \"al-Fihrist\" and he is described by al-Nadim as \"Min aI-Summar\" (a night-discourser). Khulusi suggests that in the same way that Ibn al-Muqaffa' translated \"Kalila wa Dimna\" into Arabic, he had the scholastic ability to translate the original fables from \"Hazaar Afsaanah\" and to develop these in Arabic and as was customary at that time to verbally relay some of the stories. Different recollections of the tales by various scribes and copyists and later alterations could account for the different versions of the stories and the obscurity of their author.\n\nKhulusi concludes that Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s attempts to conceal some of his writing, together with the different methods by which his translations are likely to have been collected and revised and his untimely death, would have helped to obscure his contributions to the early tales of \"The Arabian Nights.\"\n\nKhulusi sets out to illustrate the contribution of early Muslim and Arab scholars to modern day science. He begins by saying that the record will not be complete until all the manuscripts in Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad and the key centres in Iran and India are studied and their contents brought to light. From the material available however, he notes that Islamic scientific curiosity and research started as early as 661 C.E. The greatest scientific centre at that time was the Academy of Jundeshpur in modern-day Iran. It was there that Ahron's \"Pandects\" was translated from Syriac into Arabic. This was the fifty book digest or abridgement of the decisions, writings and opinions of the old Roman jurists, compiled in the 6th century on the orders of the Emperor Justinian I. The translation of Ahron's \"Pandects\" is regarded as the first scientific work in the Arabic language.\n\nJabir ibn Hayyan (Latinized name: \"Gebri Arabis\", d.815) is considered to be the father of alchemy. He wrote numerous original scientific treatises based on practical experiments, for the Court of Harun al-Rashid (d.809). He is also credited with publications in a number of other subjects including medicine, biology, astronomy and philosophy. ibn Hayyan's work was highly respected in Europe where he was more commonly referred to by the name 'Geber' (derived from Jabir). His \"Kitab al-Kimya\" (Book of Alchemy) was translated into Latin in the 12th century by Robert of Chester, an English scholar of the Arabic language. The name 'Geber' was also borrowed by European alchemists in the 13th century to enhance the credibility of their own publications. Paul of Taranto was one of the alchemists who published under the name 'Geber'. The term 'Latin Geber' or 'Pseudo-Geber' is used to distinguish this European corpus and its authors from the earlier works written in the Arabic language.\n\nAbu Yusuf Ya'qub al-Kindi (Latinized name: Alkindus, d.874) was commissioned to translate ancient Greek philosophy and science into Arabic. He rapidly progressed to producing his own original treatises on a range of subjects covering both formal and natural sciences. al-Kindi is credited by Abu'l-Faraj al-Nadim in his Catalogue of Books \"al-Fihrist\", with writing over two hundred and sixty books mainly on geometry, physics and philosophy. According to Khulusi, his publications greatly influenced later notable scholars including the English scientist Roger Bacon (d.1294).\n\nMuḥammad al-Khwarizmi (Latinized name: Algoritmi, d.850) was a celebrated mathematician from The House of Wisdom. He is credited with introducing into Europe a number of mathematical concepts from the East. The terms algorism and algorithm are derived from the European version of his name. Algebra, from the Arabic word \"al-jabur\", and the use of Arabic numerals in the West are additional reminders of Algoritmi's lasting legacy.\n\nMuhammad al-Razi (Latinized name: Rhazes, d.932) was one of the most distinguished physicians of the Islamic Golden Age of scholarship. Rhazes' book on smallpox and measles was translated into Latin, then into other important European languages. The English version was reprinted forty times between 1498 and 1886. Amongst his other works, \"Kitab al-Hawi\" (The Comprehensive Book) was reproduced in a translated form and had a profound influence on the advancement of European medicine.\n\nAccording to Khulusi, the greatest Eastern contribution to medicine from the 10th century was in the field of ophthalmology. As late as the first half of the 18th century the translated treatises of Ammar ibn Ali of Mosul were the most authoritative books on eye disease in Europe. His publications were complemented by those of Abu 'Ali al-Hasan ibn al-Haytham al-Basri (Latinized name: Alhazen, d.1020) who produced work that was fundamental to the advancement of optics. Roger Bacon, Leonardo da Vinci (d.1519) and Johannes Kepler (d.1630) were a few of many notables who based their works on Alhazen's \"Optica Thesaurus\", in preference to more contemporary European offerings.\n\nAbul Rayhan al-Biruni (Latinized name: Alberonius d.1048) was a natural scientist and physician and a contemporary of Avicenna, with whom he corresponded. Scientific debate and disagreement on some issues was accompanied by consensus on others, for example their support for Alhazen's theory on vision (which opposed earlier Greek doctrine):\n\nAbu al-Qasim al-Zahrawi of Cordoba (Latinized name: Abulcasis, d.1013) wrote a highly influential book on Surgery, \"al-Tasrif.\" Its teachings were translated into Latin and adopted into European surgical practice. Many of the instruments that he developed and the procedures that he described were in use in Europe in the Middle-Ages and formed the basis for more modern developments in surgery.\n\nibn al-Baytar al-Malaqi (d.1248), born in Malaga, Spain, is remembered in the field of early pharmacology. In his book on botany \"Collection of Simple Drugs\", he describes fourteen hundred varieties of plants with known medicinal properties, including many that he personally collected over a belt extending from Spain to Syria. According to Khulusi, Arabic and Islamic pharmacology continued to influence Europe well into the 19th century and ibn al-Baytar's treatises were read and studied as late as the 1830s.\n\nLisan ad-Din ibn al-Khatib's (d.1374) translated treatise on the Black Death (bubonic plague) was used widely in Europe between the 14th and 16th centuries. ibn al-Khatib emphasized the contagious nature of the disease to a greater extent than earlier Greek texts on this subject.\n\nIn dentistry during the early Middle-Ages, leading Arab physicians preached the cleansing of the mouth with pure water and medicated washes as agents in dental health. Khulusi believes that their various methods superseded many of the teachings of Hippocrates and Galen. The procedure of filling decayed teeth with gold foil was known to the physician attending to Harun al-Rashid (d.809). Rhazes employed opium to relieve dental pain and Abulcasis stressed the importance of early recognition and treatment of pyorrhoea.\n\nKhulusi reports that the first hospital to be established in Baghdad dates back to the 9th century and that mobile hospitals in the Muslim world came into existence in the 11th century. Wards for men and for women with dispensaries were established, and some hospitals had libraries. A botanical garden for medicinal plants was cultivated in the hospital grounds, in Cadiz, Spain. At the time of Sultan Ya'qub ibn al-Mansur (d.1199) and the Almohad Caliphate of Spain, national ownership of hospitals and free universal health care was in place and poorer patients were given suitable funds after leaving hospital for the entire period of their convalescence, until able to work again. This period is also notable for its record on one of the earliest female physicians, identified as the granddaughter of 'Abd al-Malik ibn Zuhr (Latinized name: Avenzoar, d.1162), himself a highly respected physician.\n\nFollowing the lead of the 19th-century Arab scholar Ahmad Faris Shidyaq, Khulusi wrote an article in the Arabic Journal, \"al-Ma'rifa\" (The Knowledge), in 1960 which attempted to prove that William Shakespeare may have had Arab ancestry, the original form of his surname being 'Shaykh Zubayr'. Khulusi suggested that the family name originated from Zubayr, an autonomous province in the Ottoman Empire ruled by an Emir (or Shaykh), hence 'Shaykh Zubayr', a name which he suggested was then anglicized to Shakespeare. Khulusi notes that Shakespeare had many variations in the spelling of his name, including hyphenated forms. He suggests that a name that is unusual may produce many written versions, and that the hyphenated variants, such as 'Shake-speare', could reflect an original that is composed of two parts.\n\nKhulusi records some of the known details about Shakespeare, including his birth and early life in Stratford-upon-Avon, details of his parents and his literary career. He suggests however, that information relating to Shakespeare's ancestral origin is lacking and believes that evidence pointing to his Arab ancestry is reflected in his choice of writing style and the content of his work, as well as in his own personal appearance. He comments on Shakespeare's possible ancestral lineage based on physical features in the Chandos portrait, which was painted during Shakespeare's lifetime.\n\nIn other parts of his theory, Khulusi identifies words originating from Arabic that appear in Shakespearian plays and sonnets and argues that their use is more common than expected for that time. Certain words were unheard of before being introduced by Shakespeare. The earliest literary use in English of the word assassination (from the Arabic word ħashshāshīyīn) is in \"Macbeth.\"\n\nKhulusi notes the observations of Walt Taylor (\"Arabic Words in English,\" 1933) that about a thousand main words of Arabic origin and many more of their derivatives, were incorporated into the English language through translations of French, Spanish and Latin re-workings of Arabic texts (mainly scientific and medical). However, about a third of all loan words (mainly conversational), were taken directly from Arabic, from the end of the 16th century to the time of the Restoration. Many of the words are now obsolete or rare but the ones still in everyday use have a completely English appearance, accent, stress and pronunciation. By all appearance they are not consciously regarded as Arabic. In contrast, more recent borrowings have neither settled pronunciation nor settled form. Taylor suggests that the absorption of Arabic words directly into English was the result of increased travel and trade as well as direct contact with both Arabic speakers and texts.\n\nKhulusi adds that it was around this time that Arabic began to be studied in England. William Bedwell (1561–1632) is credited with introducing formal academic studies in Arabic. The Archbishop of Canterbury, William Laud (1573–1645), in his role as Chancellor of the University of Oxford, recognised the importance to English of Arabic as a source of reference material. He procured numerous original Arabic manuscripts and books for the University, housing them in the Bodleian Library in Oxford. He created the position of Professor of Arabic in 1636, appointing the Chaplain of Aleppo, Edward Pococke, as the first Laudian Professor of Arabic at The University of Oxford. Pococke was tasked with returning to the East and collecting further Arabic scholastic and scientific works. He was accompanied by other academics and scientists, returning to England a few years later, with numerous Arabic texts. The astronomer John Greaves travelled with Pococke and secured valuable Arabic manuscripts for his own work. He was later appointed as Savilian Professor of Astronomy at the University of Oxford.\n\nKhulusi speculates about the inclusion of large numbers of Arabic geographic locations and place names in Shakespeare's work. He details Arab countries from North Africa that are referred to by Shakespeare, including Egypt, Morocco, Tunis (Tunisia), Mauritania, Argier (Algeria) and Libya. While from the Middle East he mentions Palestine, Syria, Arabia (Saudi) and Mesopotamia (Iraq). In addition Khulusi remarks on the references to various Eastern cities in Shakespeare's plays, including Alexandria, Memphis, Tyre, Jerusalem, Aleppo, Antioch, Damascus and Tripoli. He also specifies Arab historical sites and natural and geographic features covered in Shakespeare's work. He indicates that the influence of the physical and natural Arab world is unusually pervasive and includes lines and extracts from Shakespeare's work to illustrate this. The following are a small number of the examples that he includes: \nKhulusi notes the writing of William Bliss (\"The Real Shakespeare\", 1947) that Shakespeare may have travelled “on board the ship the \"Tiger\" to Tripoli at some time between 1585–93 which was wrecked in the Adriatic on the way back home.” He argues that as a result of visiting North Africa, Shakespeare gained material for his work, and that his plays bear similarities to much earlier Arabic stories. He finds similarities in plots, characters, and even dialogue. \"Othello, The Moor of Venice\", he says \"has a reflection in \" The Arabian Nights\" tale of \"Qamar Al-Zaman\" (Arabian Nights 962–967)\" and that his name may have originated from \"Ata-Allah (The Gift of God)\", a name common in North Africa, while \"The Merchant of Venice\" 'bears similarities' to the story of \"Masrur The Merchant and Zayn al-Mawasif\". The plot of \"The Tempest\" is similar to that of \"The Isle of Treasures\" in \"The Arabian Nights\" (Suhail Edition, Vol. V, p. 238–242), and the characters of both Caliban and Ariel find their counterparts in \"The Nights\" story. \"Macbeth\" he says \"embraces three Arabian tales in one story\", \"The Three Witches\", \"Zarqa Al-Yamamah\", and the story of the \"Himyarite 'Amr and King Hassan\". This resemblance between \"Macbeth\" and the Arabian stories was first noted by Reynold Nicholson in his book \"A Literary History of The Arabs.\"\n\nShakespeare may have become familiar with Eastern story themes and plots through European sources containing reworked and translated Eastern tales. One source being Giovanni Boccaccio's \"The Decameron.\" Boccaccio (d.1375) freely admits that his frame story collection of a hundred tales is heavily influenced by earlier stories. Many of these have origins in Arab (including Spanish-Moorish), Persian and Sanskrit literature. Aspects of \"Cymbeline,\" for example, are recognisable in \"The Decameron\" story II 9. Khulusi adds that some of the details in plays such as \"Macbeth,\" \"Othello\" and \"The Merchant of Venice\" have such a close affinity to their Eastern counterparts, that these details must have been sourced from the Eastern originals rather than via an intermediate step.\n\nKhulusi reports on an exhaustive inventory of Shakespearian lines and phrases that he believes show 'Arabic influence'. One of the many examples that he gives: \nHe says that symbolically Shakespeare shows deference to the Prophet Muhammad and to Islam. However, he adds another more literal interpretation. Islamic history records that Qur'anic verses were revealed to the Prophet Muhammad by the angel \"Jibra’il\" (Gabriel) who appeared with angelic wings of a dove thus ‘inspiring’ Muhammad to believe in his authenticity and that of his message. Khulusi suggests that Shakespeare may have had an understanding of Islamic history.\n\nKhulusi studies Shakespeare's language in terms of its grammar and compares this to Arabic grammar. According to Edwin Abbott (\"Shakespearian Grammar\" 1870), Shakespeare's language is unique in that he prefers clarity to grammatical correctness, and brevity to both correctness and clarity, leaving sentences unambiguous but seemingly ungrammatical. Khulusi suggests that Shakespeare's grammar should not be analysed by the fixed rules of modern English, as Elizabethan English was far less structured and in a 'transitional phase' of development. He adds that the language was ready to 'borrow' idioms, rhetoric and even rules of grammar from older, more established languages and that Shakespeare may have chosen to adopt Eastern literary methods to enhance the richness and distinctiveness of his work.\n\nKhulusi gives examples of similarities between Shakespearian rules of grammar and those of Arabic. One rule he explains as follows: “The frequent omission of the word \"The\" before a noun already defined by another, especially in prepositional phrases. In Arabic it is a strict rule to drop the definite article \"al\"(the) from a noun in the possessive case, i.e. by an implied English (of)”. Some of the examples given are: \n\nIn another rule, Khulusi reports that Shakespeare uses \"The Which.\" He says that in French there is \"lequel\" but not \"lequi\" whereas in Arabic the relative pronoun is always defined. Shakespeare is nearer to Arabic than French. He uses \"the which\" and \"the whom\" and the latter is unique to Shakespeare. \nThe example of this rule is reminiscent of a line from al-Mutanabbi (d.965), who says (metre: al-Kamil) \nKhulusi goes on to detail eleven other grammatical rules in common with Arabic and provides examples to illustrate these.\n\nKhulusi suggests that \"Romeo and Juliet\" draws on the ‘basically Arabian’ concept of platonic love and that the story is very close to the older Arabian tales of \"Majnoon Layla\" and \"Qays and Lubna.\" He details examples of Eastern imagery, customs and traditions in \"Romeo and Juliet\" and remarks that the linguistic style, particularly the extensive use of rhetorical devices helps to bring the story \"nearer to similar ones in the literature of the East.\"\n\nKhulusi's thesis was expounded in Arabic publications. His view that Shakespeare had Arabic ancestors is highly speculative and lacks any evidence. His opinions have been opposed by other scholars including Abdul Sattar Jawad Al-Mamouri, Abdullah Al-Dabbagh, Eric Ormsby, Ferial Ghazoul and the Egyptian scholar Ibrahim Hamadah who devoted a book, \"‘Urubat Shakespeare\" (\"The Arabism of Shakespeare\") 1989, to refuting Khulusi's thesis. Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi endorsed Khulusi's views in 1989.\n\nBased on his experience researching classical Arabic manuscripts, and teaching modern Arabic language, Khulusi sets out to simplify the complexities of grammatical construction in modern Arabic. He dismisses the notion that in its most elaborate form Arabic defies sensible and logical explanation.\n\nKhulusi develops a new approach to teaching Arabic grammar by stratifying the importance or strength of different parts of the sentence. He details the basic points that underpin grammatical theory and the morphological structure of the language. He deals with the rules that govern the assignment of the vowel signs and their re-designation with changes of meaning or grammatical function or construction. He considers what he refers to as the \"hordes\" of Arabic words known as \"Mabniyyat\" (built up) that do not permit grammatical changes. He explains the special privileges that different Arabic numerals have in the language, and the rules that govern their use in sentence construction.\n\nKhulusi focuses his greatest attention on the structure of the verb system which he regards as \"the backbone of the language\" and cites this as the reason why Arabic has come to be considered as a \"shorthand\" language. He provides a simplified method for handling verb roots and applying various functions to these. He details and explains the various grammatical concepts associated with the verb system.\n\nHe notes that Arabic is suited to showing relations with more conciseness than many other languages because of the greater flexibility of verbs and nouns. He gives the example that 'ideas': break, shatter, try to break, cause to break, allow to be broken, break one another, ask someone to break, pretend to break. These are just some of the many variations of the fundamental verb system which can be expressed by vowel changes and consonantal arguments, without the aid of additional verbs and pronouns.\n\nKhulusi goes on to describe other finer aspects of grammatical construction and the historical reasoning behind the established grammatical rules. He ventures that the complexities of the language can be simplified by knowledge of its history. He considers more traditional approaches to grammatical teaching and details their limitations.\n\n\"The Logical Basis of Arabic Grammar, A New Theory\" was well received in Arabic publications. Khulusi later summarized the theory and translated it into English. He adapted parts of the theory and incorporated it into later editions of his textbook \"The Art of Translation.\"\n\nArabic literature from the 18th and 19th centuries reflects the scholarly interests of individual authors. Books and manuscripts retain, to a large degree, a coherent homogeneity and continuity in style and content. This, according to Khulusi, changed from the end of the 19th century when much of Arabic literature became the product of journalism and transformed into political literature. In his view, the advent of journalism was responsible for both the merits and defects of modern literature in Iraq. Poets and writers would often begin their careers by writing for newspapers and later collect the contents of their articles and publish them as books. These publications were largely fragmented and lacked the linguistic harmony and literary balance of their predecessors. Khulusi set out to record the early history of journalism in Iraq in order to provide the background and context with which the literature and the writers of the time could be more clearly viewed.\n\nJournalism made its first rudimentary appearance in 1830 when the Governor of Baghdad Dawud Pasha ordered the publication of a daily newspaper that was distributed to military officers and to other dignitaries. To date no copies of this paper remain. The earliest paper that can be traced is \"al-Zawra\", which was first issued in 1869 at the time of the Ottoman governor, Midhat Pasha. \"al-Nahdha\" (The Revival) first released in 1913 and several other newspapers were published up to the time of departure of the Ottomans and arrival of the British in 1917, when the newspaper \"al-'Arab\" appeared. \"al-'Arab\" was primarily the instrument of the British authorities in Baghdad, and Razzuq Ghannam was appointed as its first editor. Ghannam went on to publish a sister paper to \"al-'Arab\" entitled \"al-'Iraq\". Later, with the establishment of a National Government, he ceased to be the voice of the British forces, although his papers retained a largely pro-British slant.\n\nGhannam's greater importance, according to Khulusi, lies in the fact that he trained two of Iraq's most prominent journalists of the time, Tawfiq al-Sim'ani (b. 1902) and Raphael Butti. al-Sim'ani left \"al-'Iraq\" to publish his own paper \"al-'Ahd\" (The Era), and when this fell foul of the authorities and was suspended, he quickly replaced it with \"Sada al-'Ahd\" (Echoes of The Era). Both papers represented pro-British views, were reliable in their news coverage and were deeply rooted in General Nuri al-Sa'id Pasha's political party \"al-'Ahd\".\n\nal-Sim'ani's former colleague and later his bitter rival, Raphael Butti, published \"al-Bilad\" (The Country) in 1929. This paper became the voice of General Yasin Pasha al-Hashimi's party, \"al-Ikha al-Watani\" (National Brotherhood), and was strongly anti-British. After \"al-Bilad\", Butti issued a second paper called \"al-Ikha aI-Watani\", leaving no doubts as to his political affiliation. Both of his papers were staunch supporters of the nationalist views of al-Hashimi, Rashid Ali al-Gaylani and Muhammad Zaki.\n\nIt was not long before a third political party, \"al-Ahali\" (The People), well known for its socialist views, released its own paper on to the news-stands of Baghdad. According to Khulusi, only the publications of \"al-Ahali\" and \"al-Ikha al-Watani\" are of any lasting scholarly importance, as their papers opened their pages to literature, all be it mainly in the form of anti-government articles and poems. \"al-Ahali\" displayed a broader literary tendency by issuing special editions of their paper and celebrating in equal measures the birthday of the German poet Johann von Goethe and the victory of Saladin at the battle of Hattin.\n\nDhannun Ayyub (b. 1908) was a radical teacher who as a young man came to Baghdad from Mosul in the 1920s and sought to change established norms in Arabic literature and cultural convention. While teaching at a secondary school in Baghdad in the late 1930s, he founded a socialist monthly, \"al-Majalla\" (The Magazine). Although a purely literary periodical, according to Khulusi, it nevertheless nourished a predominantly socialist readership and was aligned to \"al-Ahali\". Ayyub's short stories dealt with the ills of society and the complaints of the poor. Arguably his best work, apart from his autobiography, was \"al-daktor Ibrahim\" (Doctor Ibrahim), a satire of an official in the Iraqi Ministry of Education who was Ayyub's nemesis. Of his other short stories, the best known are \"Sadiqi\" (My Friend), \"Burj Babel\" (Tower of Babel) and \"al-Kadihun\" (The Proletariat).\n\nFahmi al-Mudarris (1873–1944) was an academic whose literary career benefited from journalism. He managed the government press office in Baghdad where he was editor of \"al-Zawra\". According to Khulusi, al-Mudarris idolized Sultan Abd al-Hamid II for his religious views and his support for Jamal al-Din al-Afghani's concept of Pan-Islamism. His literature reflected this even after Ottoman rule had ended and nationalism had taken hold in Iraq. In 1921, al-Mudarris was appointed to the position of Chief Chamberlain to King Faisal I and served as Dean of \"Jami'at Al al-Bait\" (Al al-Bait University) from 1924 to 1930. According to Khulusi, this was the nucleus for Faisal's long cherished project to establish the University of Baghdad but the scheme failed to reach fruition at that time. In 1935, when al-Hashimi and his nationalist party \"al-Ikha al-Watani\" came to power, al-Mudarris was appointed Director General of Education. Khulusi reports that he remained in post for only seventeen days and left after disagreement over the nationalist education plan of Sati' al-Husri (b. 1882) and the American-style system of education introduced by Muhammad Fadhel al-Jamali. al-Mudarris' newspaper articles written over many years were later published in two large volumes under the title \"Maqalat fi 'l-Siyasa wa 'l-Ijtima' \" (Articles on Politics and Sociology).\n\nIbrahim Salih Shukur (d.1945) deserves a mention for the forthright and outspoken style of his articles, which according to Khulusi, was much admired by Iraqis. Among the 'sensational' papers that he edited were \"al-Nashi'ah\" (The Younger Generation), \"al-Zaman\" (The Times) and \"al-Mustaqbal\" (The Future). His papers were often short-lived. \"al-Zaman\" lasted for less than one day. Most of its copies disappeared in its first morning and what remained attracted highly inflated prices. This was all because of a controversial article on Muzahim al-Pachachi (b. 1891). al-Pachachi was a respected and powerful political figure in Iraq. Shukur, however, did not have such a high regard for him and his article entitled: \"Hafnatu Turab 'ala Marqad al-Pachachi Muzahim al-Amin\" (A Handful of Soil on the Grave of al-Pachachi Muzahim al-Amin) resulted in a prison sentence for Shukur and the closure of \"al-Zaman\". According to Khulusi, Shukur should not only be remembered for his literary work but also for his part in the failed military revolt of 1941, when he was the \"Qaimmaqam\" (Assistant Governor) of the frontier town through which the deposed fugitive leader Rashid Ali al-Gaylani passed into Persia before heading for Berlin.\n\nIbrahim Hibni al-'Umar (1895–1941) began his career with \"al-Nahdha\" (The Revival) in 1913 and later contributed to a series of other publications including \"Lisan al-'Arab\" (Language of The Arabs), \"al-'Amal\" (The Hope) and \"Nida al-Sha'b\" (Call of the Nation). al-'Umar had a particular literary style which was best nurtured through journalism. According to Khulusi, he wrote articles with completely opposing views on the same subject under different pen-names and often only the style and terminology of his compositions gave him away. His most famous literary work was \"Suq al Nukhasa fi Geneve\" (The Slave Market in Geneva), in which he satirized the League of Nations.\n\nHikmat Sulayman (b. 1889–1964) is important in the history of both Iraqi politics and literature. Sulayman published the newspaper \"al-Bayan\" (The Statement) and formed a literary group which attracted high-profile figures including members of \"al-Ahali\". His group included many who had pro-Ottoman views and was imbued with Pan-Islamism. More significantly, according to Khulusi, the group attracted important members of the fighting force which eventually brought about the \"coup d'etat\" of 1936 under the leadership of General Bekir Sidqi Pasha which ousted al-Hashimi and \"al-Ikha al-Watani\" from power. Sulayman was installed as Prime Minister and brought into his government socialist elements from \"al-Ahali\". The new regime raised the profile of poets and writers from Sulayman's original literary group. However, in Khulusi's view many of them were later disappointed by a government which appeared no different from the one that it had replaced, a sentiment best expressed by the poet Muhammad Mahdi al-Jawahiri: \n\nJa'far al-Khalili was a modern and enlightened Muslim author based in Najaf who founded a purely literary group. He edited \"al-Ra'i\" (The Shepherd) and \"al-Fajar al-Sadiq\" (The True Dawn) in the 1930s, and later developed \"al-Hatif\" which according to Khulusi was devoted to short stories and serialized fiction, largely written by the editor himself. His most famous work was \"fi Qura al-Jinn\" (In the Villages of the Demons), a clever satire of Iraqi society in Najaf at that time, which was serialized and later published in book form. al-Khalili published other collections of short stories, such as \"al-Dha'i' \" (The Forlorn), \"Hadith al-Quwwah\" (A Discourse on Power) and \" 'Indama Kuntu Qadhiyan\" (When I was a Judge), an account of a number of cases which he tried in his capacity as the judge of a religious court. al-Khalili later transferred his office from Najaf to Baghdad, and transformed \"al-Hatif\" from a literary weekly into a political daily but still retained a regular space for subjects of literary interest. According to Khulusi, the work of al-Khalili is of lasting historical and scholarly interest with its casual use of colloquialism coloured with socialist principles, as it portray Iraqi society with all its shortcomings and demonstrates the common spoken idioms used in Iraq in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nKhulusi's uncle, Abdul Majid Lutfi (1905–1992), was a staunch supporter and regular contributor to \"al-Hatif\" in its original literary form. Lutfi was a poet, essayist and short story writer. Arabic papers and periodical carried regular contribution from him in the 1930s and 40s. A Syrian daily newspaper declared him to be one of the most prolific contributors to the Arab press at that time. During World War II he was awarded a BBC literary prize for his poem \"Jabal Tariq\" (Gibraltar). Lutfi was a keen follower of the Syro-American school of writers, especially Gibran Khalil Gibran, whom he later elegized in a memorable piece of literature. It was this fondness for the new literary school that according to Khulusi, affected Lutfi's verse as well his prose and gave his writings a unique flavour. One of Lutfi's publications was \"Asda al-Zaman\" (The Echoes of Time), a conglomeration of prose and verse published in 1936. This form of blank verse was received with enthusiasm by the younger generation of writers as an invigorating and modern development but was bitterly criticised by conservative scholars. Apart from \"Asda al-Zaman\" his other works included the novel \"Qalb Umm\" (A Mother's Heart) and the play \"Khatimat Musiqar\" (The Fate of a Musician). Lutfi's style contrasted that of established authors including Fahmi al-Mudarris, Ibrahim Shukur and Raphael Butti.\n\nLater in his career Lutfi published other works in Arabic including \"Tasabi al-Kalimat\" (Rejuvenation of Words) which Khulusi rendered into English. Lutfi wrote extensively on social and cultural topics. His novels used fiction to tackle the controversial issues of the time particularly relating to the rights of women to education and in marriage. Many of his later publications were in the Kurdish language. This together with his Kurdish nationalist views and his family roots from Khanaqin, in the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq, established him as an important figure in the literary and national history of the Kurds.\n\nKhulusi set out to introduce English readers to contemporary Iraqi poetry by translating the works of some of the most prominent and influential poets of the first half of the 20th century. This was a period of significant social and political change, an era of wars and civil strife, and also a time when poetry was highly valued and influential in Arab society and particularly in Iraq. The appearance of a famous poet at a public meeting for example, would generate a large crowd, and mainstream daily newspapers regularly replaced their lead paragraph with poetic verses employing all manner of eloquence and rhetoric to win the affection of the reader and sway a political argument.\n\nFrom the end of the 19th century, the rise to prominence of talented radical poets Jamil Sidqi al-Zahawi (1863–1936) and Ma'ruf al-Rusafi (1875–1945) popularised poetry containing social and political themes. According to Khulusi, both Zahawi and Rusafi learned from contemporary Turkish poets, such as Tawfiq Fikrat, the value of charging poetry with powerful messages. Rusafi was the more ferocious and shocking in his political attacks, while Zahawi's ire was directed at what he believed to be outdated social attitudes.\n\nZahawi's poetry extolling a utopian society was his attempt to set the agenda for a social revolution, particularly on views towards women in post-Ottoman Iraq. According to Khulusi, this was largely unwelcomed at the time, but proved nonetheless influential as a catalyst for change in the decades that followed. Khulusi renders the incendiary work including what he calls “Zahawi's tirade against the veil”:\n\nKhulusi illustrates Zahawi's attempt to introduce the concept of gender equality in his celebrated poem \"Ba'da alfi 'Am\" (A Thousand Years Hence): \n\nAs with Rusafi and Zahawi before him, Muhammad Mahdi al-Jawahiri (1899–1997) also versified his challenge to the established attitudes towards women. He chose a less aggressive, more persuasive tone which Khulusi attempts to capture in this sample of his translation:\n\nAccording to Khulusi, Jawahiri takes up the cause of social exclusion and poverty from Rusafi. He illustrates the gulf in society by describing life in the houses and villas of the rich, built next to shanty dwellings where the deprived live in squalid conditions with their children and livestock.\n\nIn Khulusi view, Jawahiri was also “the poet of every revolutionary movement”. The revolt of January 1948 was one example. He composed long epics on the subject, and elegized his brother, Ja'far al-Jawahiri who died during the revolt. The same year saw war in the Holy Land and Jawahiri directed his anger at Arab leaders who promoted themselves during this time as 'saviours of Palestine'. Khulusi tries to capture the tone of sarcasm of the original poem:\n\nMartial law in 1948 was officially a means to protect the military operations in Palestine and to save the rear of the Arab armies. According to Khulusi, the law was skilfully extended to deal with young men with liberal ideas. Living close by, Jawahiri regularly passed the prison gates in Baghdad and could see groups of young men, from all backgrounds and professions, being led inside, and relatives waiting for news of other men already taken. In his poem Jawahiri says:\n\nLater in the same poem he adds prophetically:\n\nFollowing Zahawi's death in 1936, Salma al-Kadhimiyya (1908–1953) writing under the name Umm Nizar, enters the Iraqi literary scene. According to Khulusi, her first poem is also the very first to be published for any woman in Iraq and appropriately its Zahawi's elegy.\n\nUmm Nizar refers to Zahawi's poetry on the subject of emancipation. Khulusi records that Zahawi wrote about a fictitious character named Leila who is denied her rightful and equal place in society. Leila is intended to symbolise the Iraqi woman. Umm Nizar writes:\n\nAccording to Khulusi, Umm Nizar echoes Zahawi's message, calling on women to break the fetters of centuries and step forward as saviours of their country. He reports that the feminist \"genre\" of her poetry adds a description of the status of women and their achievements during various periods of Islamic civilization. She details their intolerable position in 1930s and 40s Iraq, and describes in verse how the place of women has not only fallen far behind modern civilization, but far below where it had been in the Middle Ages. The following couplet affords a good example of Umm Nizar's style as depicted by Khulusi.\n\nUmm Nizar is followed into print by a number of other women including her daughter Nazik Al-Malaika, who writes emotional, imaginative and rebellious odes. Lami'a 'Abbas 'Amara is noted for her humour and epigrammatic lines. 'Atika Wahbi al-Khazraji versifies the tragedy of \"Majnoon Layla\". Fatina al-Naib, better known by her pen-name Saduf al-'Ubaydiyya, composes poetry for her own personal enjoyment rather than public acclaim and eventually finds that she has completed the contents of four volumes. Khulusi renders entire poems and extracts of this ground-breaking literary work and illustrates the range and versatility of these pioneering women.\n\nMa'ruf al-Rusafi was a revolutionary poet and a controversial character who Khulusi held in high regard. Rusafi was born in 1875 in al-Qaraghul, a modest quarter of Baghdad. He studied Arabic literature and theology with the savant Mahmud Shukri al-Alusi (1856–1924). He was invited to Istanbul by ‘The Arab Friends Association’ to edit the Arabic language magazine \"Sabil al-Rashad\" (The Path of Reason). According to Khulusi, Rusafi declared his republican revolutionary tenets within earshot of the Ottoman Sultan Abdul Hamid II as early as 1898, exclaiming in one of his odes \"It is because it is republican, that government can remove the blindness of those who are led astray.\" Rusafi inveighs against the Ottoman Caliphate. To him the Sublime Porte is a corrupt black-market for preference and promotion. He says \"no government that is run by a sacrosanct personage will ever last\". Rusafi remained in Istanbul, lecturing at \"Madrasat al-Wa'izin\" (School of Preachers) and publishing poems opposing the autocratic Sultan and promoting the concept of a confederation of Muslim states within the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAccording to Khulusi, Rusafi's political views at that time are captured in his poetry, in particular \"Fi Salanik\" (In Salonika), in which he visualises the army's march against the Sultan. Rusafi's association with the Committee of Union and Progress aided his election to the Chamber of Deputies of the Ottoman Empire. It was here that he first met a fellow Arab member of the Ottoman Parliament, Faisal, son of the Sharif of Mecca. \nIn Khulusi's opinion, Rusafi made a series of calculated decisions based on his political beliefs that affected not only the direction of his life but influenced his literary legacy. He attacked the Arab Congress of 1913 for threatening the unity of the Ottoman Empire. He dismissed the Arab Revolt under T. E. Lawrence and satirised Hussein bin Ali, Sharif of Mecca when he seceded from the Ottoman thrall in 1916.\n\nWith the defeat of the Ottomans at the end of World War I, Rusafi was compelled to leave Istanbul, travelling first to Damascus and then on to Jerusalem before finally returning to Baghdad. Rusafi was marginalised when Hussein's son Faisal, his former colleague in the Ottoman Parliament, established a government in Syria in 1920. He found sanctuary in Jerusalem where he lectured at the Teachers College, thanks to the intervention of Raghib al-Nashashibi. While in Jerusalem, Rusafi was heavily criticised for failing to use his poetry to resonate Arab nationalist sentiments during the momentous events of 1920 in Syria and Palestine. As a result, Rusafi's academic role in Palestine became untenable. The problem was resolved in 1921 when he received a telegram from Hikmat Sulayman, inviting him to return to Baghdad as editor of a newspaper supporting Talib Pasha al-Naqib's aspiration to become head of a new Iraqi state. By the time Rusafi reached Baghdad, al-Naqib had been arrested at a tea party held by Gertrude Bell and deported to India, paving the way for Faisal, who had lost his throne in Syria, to become the king of Iraq. Rusafi had once again backed the losing side, this time in opposing Britain's plans for Faisal in Iraq.\n\nRusafi was never reconciled to the presence of the British in Iraq. When asked by Khulusi about the often quoted line from one of his poems \"The British have ambitious designs against your country, which will not end unless you turn Bolshevik\" Rusafi replied \"The whole poem was composed in a spasm of rage against the British who blindly followed the advice of a pack of fools who did not represent our country. They refused to listen to the advice I offered in 1921 to Gertrude Bell. She was to have passed it on to the Colonial Secretary, Winston Churchill.\" The poem was written on the occasion of the Cairo Conference in March 1921, which ended with an accord to implement the Sykes–Picot Agreement of 1916. According to Khulusi, Rusafi's advice to the British government was to establish a republic in Iraq under the presidency of Abd Al-Rahman Al-Gillani and the premiership of Talib Pasha al-Naqib. He warned them that their plan to establish an Iraqi kingdom for Faisal would face popular opposition. The message that returned to Rusafi was that Churchill had rejected his suggestion and had said: “I will carry the burden of all the opposition on these shoulders.” Khulusi notes that as Rusafi's political ambitions faltered, so his poems against Faisal and the institutions of his government became increasingly acrid and vicious.\n\nRusafi's literary venture into modern history was \"al-Risala al-'Iraqiyya\", (The Iraqi Epistle). When reading this together with him, Khulusi raised several objections, some Rusafi accepted, others he resentfully rejected. In his eyes the British were not only responsible for crowning Faisal but were also complicit in his death. Khulusi reminded Rusafi that Faisal died of intestinal cancer in Switzerland, and that there was good evidence to support this. He did however sympathise with Rusafi's view that King Ghazi's death in a car accident was suspicious and could have been the result of a plot by Nuri al-Sa'id. At the time of his death, Ghazi was secretly working for union between Iraq and Kuwait, to which Britain objected.\n\nWhatever his opponents thought of his political views, according to Khulusi no one questioned Rusafi's abilities as a poet or disputed that he attained the apogee of his ability in his declamatory poetry. English rendering of one such poem is best articulated by Arthur John Arberry\n\nAccording to Khulusi, John Haywood also produced commendable renderings of Rusafi's odes including \"The Negative Truth About Me\" and \"At a Game of Football\". Haywood echoes the common Iraqi view that ‘Rusafi could write a poem on any subject, however seemingly unpromising.’ In Khulusi's view, Rusafi was ruthless, harsh, impulsive and tactless in his satires particularly when attacking the authority of a monarch or exploring uncomfortable themes in poems such as \"al-Yatim fi 'l-'id\" (The Orphan on the Day of Festival), \"al-Faqr wa 'l-Suqam\" (Poverty and Illness), \"Umm al-Yatim\" (The Orphan's Mother) and \"al-Mutallaqa\" (The Divorced Woman). Arguably the most powerful of these is \"al-Sijnu fi Baghdad\" (The Prison in Baghdad), in which he describes the miserable condition of the prisoners and their ill treatment. It's in this poem that Rusafi makes his famous statement, “\"Li anna‘l-Haqqa lam yata Baghdadi\" (Because justice is not yet a Baghdadi)” in answer to a complaint from a prisoner demanding to know why he had been imprisoned for no reason. In all of these poems his language is closer to the colloquial than in the declamatory poems, where the style and vocabulary are sophisticated and highly classical. Rusafi's literary critics, especially his inveterate adversary, Jalal al-Hanafi, in his book \"al-Rusafi fi awjih wa hadidih\" (Rusafi in his Apogee and Perigee), note that Rusafi gives colloquialism an unwarranted place both in his verse and prose.\n\nKhulusi believes that Rusafi is the only traditional, classical poet, in the Arabic language, who approved of both blank verse and free verse. His broad definition of poetry covers much that is regarded by classicists and purists as ornate prose, \"al-shi'r al-manthur\" (prose poetry). For Khulusi, Rusafi had a hypnotic manner in his recital with an overwhelming sense of the movement of the meter. He had the ability to hypnotize his audience to such an extent that frequently the listeners uttered the rhyme word before the poet.\n\nAs with his politics and his poetry, Rusafi's religious views also courted controversy. His belief in a mystical interpretation of Islam gave rise in 1934 to what Khulusi considers his \"Magnum opus\", \"al-Shakhsiyya al-Muhammadiyya aw Hall al-Lughz al-Muqaddas\" (The Personality of Muhammad or the Solution of the Sacred Enigma). In it he asserted that the Prophet Muhammad was at one with the universe and God, and that his word was that of God. This was Rusafi's interpretation of the principle of 'revelation' and gave an alternative view to the concept of the 'messenger of God'. His unorthodox religious views were seized upon by his political opponents and used to ferment opposition to him. The situation reached its climax with publication of Rusafi's \"Rasa'il al-Ta'liqat\" (The Commentary Epistles) in 1944. This provoked outrage amongst some theologians and demands that he should be 'stripped of his Iraqi nationality and exiled to \"bilad al-kufr\" (the land of the infidels)'. When Khulusi was questioned by government officials investigating the matter, he told them that he did not see anything in Rusafi's book beyond the doctrines of Monism and Sufism, that he did not know where \"bilad al-kufr\" was and that those who were agitating against Rusafi should themselves be in \"bilad al-jahl wa 'l-ta'assub\" (the realm of ignorance and fanaticism).\n\n"}
{"id": "34826597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34826597", "title": "Sceneggiata", "text": "Sceneggiata\n\nThe sceneggiata (pl. \"sceneggiate\") or sceneggiata napoletana is a form of musical drama typical of Naples. Beginning as a form of musical theatre after World War I, it was also adapted for cinema; sceneggiata films became especially popular in the 1970s, and contributed to the genre becoming more widely known outside Naples. \n\nThe sceneggiata can be roughly described as a \"musical soap opera\", where action and dialogue are interspersed with Neapolitan songs. Plots revolve around melodramatic themes drawing from the Neapolitan culture and tradition, including passion, jealousy, betrayal, personal deceit and treachery, honor, vengeance, and life in the world of petty crime. Songs and dialogue were originally in Neapolitan dialect, although, especially in filmic production, Italian has sometimes been preferred, to reach a larger audience.\n\nOutside Italy, sceneggiata is mostly known in areas populated by Italian immigrants. Besides Naples, the second homeland of sceneggiata is probably Little Italy in New York City.\n\nThe sceneggiata has its roots in cheap, popular theatrical performances, and scholars believe that economic considerations were decisive in its development. This is also true of the genre's most commonly identified forerunners, such as the works of Pasquale Altavilla (1806-1875), who developed many of his comedies around successful songs to appeal to a larger audience. After World War I, the Italian government increased the taxation of variety shows, thus causing many authors to devise a mixed type of show that would complement songs with dramatic acting, in order to circumvent such duties. This \"escamotage\" is sometimes credited to Enzo Lucio Murolo, who explicitly wrote the song \"Surriento gentile\" with the intent to create a sceneggiata around it and bring it to theatres in that form (the sceneggiata was performed by the Cafiero-Fumo company in 1920).\n\nOne of the first known examples of sceneggiata is \"Pupatella\" (1918), based on the eponymous song by Libero Bovio, and performed by the theatre company led by Giovanni D'Alessio. In the following years the sceneggiata quickly developed with the advent of dedicated companies, such as that founded by Salvatore Cafiero (formerly a variety show author) and Eugenio Fumo (formerly a popular dramatist), and dedicated venues, such as the \"Trianon\" and \"San Ferdinando\" theatres, that became \"temples\" of the genre. The Cafiero-Fumo company (which starred, among others, Nino Taranto) largely contributed to establishing the genre's parameters. The typical sceneggiata included monologues, dialogues, songs, dancing, and its plot was centered on strong emotions such as love, passion, jealousy, honor, betrayal, adultery, vengeance, and the fight between good and evil. A standard pattern was that of the \"triangle\" comprising \"isso\" (\"he\", the hero), \"essa\" (\"she\", the heroine) and \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>o malamente\" (\"the villain\").\n\nSceneggiata remained extremely popular in Naples from the 1920s throughout to the 1940s. This era was dominated by a relatively small number of authors, called \"poeti di compagnia\" (\"company poets\") who wrote most of the screenplays; those included Enzo Lucio Murolo (1898-1975), Oscar Di Maio, Gaspare di Maio (1872-1930), and Raffaele Chiurazzi. \n\nIn this golden era of the sceneggiata, the genre was also exported abroad, especially in communities of Italian immigrants of Neapolitan origin. New York City's Little Italy, most nostably, became a sort of second homeland of the sceneggiata, with notable companies such as Maggio-Coruzzolo-Ciaramella, Marchetello-Diaz, and that led by Gilda Mignonette (1890-1953), the so-called \"Queen of Emigrants\".\n\nBesides being performed in theatres, sceneggiate were adapted for film since the early years of cinematography. The prominent sceneggiata movie studio was Miramare Film, founded by Emanuele Rotonno, that between 1919 and 1927 produced over 100 largely successful movies. This era of sceneggiata films, by the way, established a tradition of movies based on hit songs, which remained in Italian film making long after the decline of sceneggiata itself. One of the best known developments of this tradition is the \"Musicarello\" subgenre that became popular in the 1950s-1960s in Italy, whereby many popular singer and singer-songwriters (e.g., Gianni Morandi, Al Bano, Adriano Celentano, Little Tony, and others) would also be actors in movies linked to their major hits.\n\nThe sceneggiata almost disappeared across World War II. In 1969, a single theatre in Naples (the Teatro Duemila) was continuing this tradition. Nevertheless, in the 1970s the genre had a new boost. While this revival was mostly driven by successful sceneggiata films starring popular singers/actors such as Mario Merola, Mario Trevi, and Nino D'Angelo, sceneggiata also reappeared in theatres. Merola, in particular, became so popular with movies such as \"Sgarro alla Camorra\" or \"Zappatore\" (the most successful sceneggiata film ever) to earn the title of \"king of sceneggiata\". Especially outside Naples, Merola is by far the best known representative of the sceneggiata genre and he is often mentioned to refer to sceneggiata through antonomasia. \n\nThe revival era of sceneggiata, too, had its \"company poets\", who worked either for theatres, films, or both. Prominent representatives of this generation of sceneggiata authors include Alberto Sciotti (1925-1998), Aniello Langella (1919-1995), Francesco Martinelli, Elena Cannio, and Gaetano Di Maio (1927-1991).\n"}
{"id": "26671967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26671967", "title": "Sigurd Ottovich Schmidt", "text": "Sigurd Ottovich Schmidt\n\nSigurd Ottovich Schmidt (Russian Сигурд Оттович Шмидт) (15 May 1922 – 22 May 2013) was a Russian historian, ethnographer and teacher.\n\nSigurd Ottovich Schmidt was born on May 15, 1922 in Moscow. His father was the mathematician Otto Yulyevich Schmidt, and his mother was the psychoanalyst Vera Schmidt. Schmidt graduated from the Faculty of History at the Moscow University in 1944. \n\nSince 1949 he has taught at the Moscow Historical Archives Institute (now part of the Russian State University for the Humanities). He received his Doctor of Historical Sciences in 1965 and became an Honorary Doctor RSUH in 1970 - Professor. At the same time, starting in 1956, he works in the Institute of History of Sciences of the USSR (now Institute of Russian History at RAS).\n\nFrom 1968 to 2006 he was Chairman of the Archaeographic Commission at the Academy of Sciences (Commission of the Institute of Slavic Studies RAS for archaeography, archival and related disciplines), now he is its Honorary President (head of the Commission RAS is Corresponding Member S.M. Kashtanov).\n\nHe is a member of the Presidential Council for especially valuable objects of Russian cultural heritage. He is also a member of many scientific and editorial boards; Schmidt is the Chairman of the All-Russia Society of Local Studies, the chairman of the jury for the Nikolai Antsiferov Award, the executive editor of \"Archaeography Yearbook\", of Moscow's encyclopedia, of a number of periodicals.\n\nHe is Deputy Chairman of the Editorial Board of Library \"History of Moscow, from ancient times to the present day\", and the head of Teaching and Research Center of the historical Country Studies and Moscow Studies.\n\nSince 1949, he has supervised the student scientific society of \"Source of national history\".\n\nSchmidt edited more than 500 scientific works on cultural history, historiography, Archeology and Archives and others. His works on medieval history of Russia's 16th and 17th centuries are particularly important.\n\nSince 1989, he has been an Honored Scientist of Russia; since 1992 an Academician of Russian Academy of Education, and in 1997 - Foreign Member of the \"Polish Academy of Sciences\". Counselor of Academy of Sciences.\n\nSchmidt is the winner of the RF \"Government Prize in Education\" (1999), awarded with the insignia, \"For services to Moscow\" (2007).\n\nDmitry Likhachev described him as \"a scholar-historian of a broad plan, and as an organizer of science, and as a mentor of young scientists, and as a public figure, dedicating a lot of time on the protection of historical and cultural monuments, manuscripts documentary heritage.\" He was called \"the best in our day expert on sources on the history of Russia's 16th century.\"\n\nIn 2009 he received the award \"Triumph\" in the category of \"humanities\".\n\nSince 1949, he has supervised the student scientific circle of \"Source of national history\" that became, as Dmitry Likhachev said, \"a school not only of science but also of civil behavior for many of its members.\" Initially composed of S.O. Schmidt's immediate disciples, the club became one of the strongest points of attraction of students of other teachers, accumulating and enriching all of its members of collective research experience. For this reason this circle is called the \"Schmidt's School\" - a high top level school for \"istochnikovedcheskie\" research. Many works have been edited on this society. Italian historian Giuseppe D'Amato was his student.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58222575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58222575", "title": "Smith's laws", "text": "Smith's laws\n\nIn geology, Smith's laws are two rules, formulated by William Smith (1769–1839), which aid in the determination of geological succession. They are fundamental to the production of geological maps.\n\nBoth laws were first published by Smith in \"Strata Identified by Fossils\", 1816–1819.\n\nSmith's first law is the Principle of Superposition. This states that newer rock beds will lie on top of older rock beds unless the succession has been overturned. Overturning of the beds causes the succession order to be reversed. This can be caused by folding that is so severe that the beds are moved past the perpendicular. Beds can also be put out of order by an overthrust thrust fault (Jackson, p. 128).\n\nSmith's second law is the Law of Strata identified by fossils. This states that each stratum in the succession contains a distinctive set of fossils. This law allows beds to be identified as belonging to the same stratum even when the horizon between them is not continuous (Jackson, p. 128).\n\nSmith used these new techniques, together with knowledge he had accumulated as a canal engineer and mineral surveyor, to produce geological maps. He started with a hand-produced map of the area around Bath in 1799. In 1815 he published a large-scale map of England, Wales and parts of Scotland. This was the first geological map of Britain (indeed, of any country) and a major milestone in geology (Winchester, p. 195; Jackson, p. 127). In 1819, Smith produced cross-sectional maps showing the underlying geology (Jackson, p. 128).\n\nSmith's map of England and Wales was extensively plagiarised by others, starting with George Bellas Greenough in 1819 (Winchester, pp. 230-234). Smith's laws are still basic to the production of modern geological maps (Jackson, p. 128).\n\n"}
{"id": "319376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319376", "title": "Surplice", "text": "Surplice\n\nA surplice (Late Latin \"superpelliceum\", from \"super\", \"over\" and \"pellicia\", \"fur garment\") is a liturgical vestment of the Western Christian Church. The surplice is in the form of a tunic of white linen or cotton fabric, reaching to the knees, with wide or moderately wide sleeves. \n\nIt was originally a long garment with open sleeves reaching nearly to the ground. As it remains in the Western Catholic, Anglican, and some Lutheran traditions, the surplice often has shorter, closed sleeves and square shoulders. Anglicans typically refer to a Roman-style surplice with the Medieval Latin term \"cotta\" (meaning \"cut-off' in Italian), as it is derived from the cut-off alb. English-speaking Catholics, however, typically do not make the distinction between the two styles and refer to both as a \"surplice\".\n\nIt seems most probable that the surplice first appeared in France or England, whence its use gradually spread to Italy. It is possible that there is a connection between the surplice and the Gallican or Celtic alb, an ungirdled liturgical tunic of the old Gallican Rite, which was superseded during the Carolingian era by the Roman Rite. The founding of the Augustinian Canons in the second half of the eleventh century may have had a special influence upon the spread of the surplice. Among the Augustinian Canons the surplice was not only the choir vestment, but also a part of the habit of the order.\n\nThe surplice originally reached to the feet, but as early as the 13th century it began to shorten, though as late as the 15th century it still fell to the middle of the shin, and only in the 17th and 18th centuries in Continental Europe did it become considerably shorter. In several localities it underwent more drastic modifications in the course of time, which led to the appearance of various subsidiary forms alongside the original type. For example:\n\nThe first two of these forms developed very early; and, in spite of their prohibition by synods here and there (for example that of Liège \"circa\" 1287), they survive in various places to the present day. The latter two only appeared after the close of the Middle Ages: the first of them in South Germany, the second more especially in Venetia, where numerous pictorial records attest its use. As a rule, however, only the lower clergy wore these subsidiary forms of surplice. They came about partly under the influence of secular fashions, but more particularly for convenience.\n\nLack of exact information obscures the older history of the surplice. Its name derives, as Durandus and Gerland also affirm, from the fact that its wearers formerly put it on over the fur garments formerly worn in church during divine service as a protection against the cold. The word derived its name from the Medieval Latin word \"superpellicium\" which divides into\" super\", \"over\", and \"pellicia\", \"fur garment\".\n\nSome scholars trace the use of the surplice at least as far back as the 5th century, citing the evidence of the garments worn by the two clerics in attendance on Bishop Maximian represented in the mosaics of the Basilica of San Vitale at Ravenna; in this case, however, confusing the dalmatic with the surplice. \n\nIn all probability the surplice forms no more than an expansion of the ordinary liturgical alb, due to the necessity for wearing it over thick furs. The first documents to mention the surplice date from the 11th century: a canon of the Synod of Coyaca in Spain (1050); and an ordinance of King Edward the Confessor. Rome knew the surplice at least as early as the 12th century. It probably originated outside Rome, and was imported thence into the Roman use. Originally only a choir vestment and peculiar to the lower clergy, it gradually - certainly no later than the 13th century — replaced the alb as the vestment proper to the administering of the sacraments and other sacerdotal functions.\n\nThe Eastern Churches do not use a surplice or any analogous vestment. Of the non-Roman Catholic Churches in the West the surplice has continued in regular use in the Lutheran churches, in the Anglican Communion, and among various Old Catholic denominations among others.\n\nIn the Roman tradition, the surplice (or \"cotta\") sometimes features lace decoration or embroidered bordures.\n\nThe surplice is meant to be a miniature alb, the alb itself being the symbol of the white garment received at Baptism. As such, it is appropriately worn by any cleric, by lectors and acolytes, or indeed by altar servers who are technically standing in for instituted acolytes for any liturgical service. It is often worn, for instance, by seminarians when attending Mass and by non-clerical choirs. It is usually worn over a cassock and never alone, nor is it ever gathered by a belt or cincture.\n\nIt may be worn under a stole by deacons and priests for liturgical ceremonies or the celebration of sacraments outside of Mass. On occasion, a cope is worn over the cassock, surplice and stole.\n\nAs part of the choir dress of the clergy, it is normally not worn by prelates (the pope, cardinals, bishops, monsignori, and some canons) - instead, these clerics wear the rochet, which is in fact a variant of the surplice.\n\nThe surplice belongs to the \"vestes sacrae\" (sacred vestments), though it requires no benediction before it is worn.\n\nThe second Anglican Prayer Book, that of Edward VI in 1552, prescribed the surplice as, with the tippet or the academic hood, the sole vestment of the minister of the church at \"all times of their ministration\", the rochet being practically regarded as the episcopal surplice. The more extreme Reformers furiously assailed its use, but in spite of their efforts, Elizabeth's Act of Uniformity (1559) retained the garment, and the advertisements and injunctions issued under her authority enforced its use, though they ordered the destruction of the \"massing vestments\" - chasubles, albs, stoles and the like.\n\nUntil 1965, the surplice had remained, with the exception of the cope, the sole vestment authorised by law for the ministers, other than bishops, of the Church of England (for the question of the vestments prescribed by the \"Ornaments Rubric\" see vestment). And apart from clerks in Holy Orders, all the \"ministers\" (including vicars-choral and choristers) of cathedral and collegiate churches, as well as the fellows and scholars of colleges in chapel have worn surplices since the Reformation. \n\nThe clergy have employed as a distinctive mark the tippet or scarf mentioned above, a broad band of black silk worn stole-wise, but not to be confused with the stole, since it has no liturgical significance and originally formed a mere part of the clerical outdoor dress. Formerly the clergy only wore the surplice when conducting the service, and exchanged it during the sermon for the \"black gown\", i.e. either a Geneva gown or the gown of an academic degree. This custom has, however, as a result of the High Church movement, become almost completely obsolete. The \"black gown\", considered wrongly as the ensign of Low Church views, survives in comparatively few even of evangelical churches; however, preachers of university sermons retained the custom of wearing the gown of their degree.\nThe traditional form of the surplice in the Church of England survived from pre-Reformation times: a wide-sleeved, very full, plain, white linen tunic, pleated from the yoke, and reaching almost, or quite, to the feet. Towards the end of the 17th century, when large wigs came into fashion, it became convenient to have surplices constructed gown-wise, open down the front and buttoned at the neck, a fashion which still partially survives, notably at the universities. In general, however, the tendency followed continental influence, and curtailed the surplice's proportions. The ample vestment with falling folds has thus in many churches given place to an unpleated garment reaching to the knee. In some Anglo-Catholic churches, the surplices follow the style of the Roman cotta. Cottas may in some churches be worn by servers and members of the choir and clergy may wear surplices in services where they do not wear eucharistic vestments.\n\nTraditionally, the surplice is used for non-sacramental services, worn over the cassock, such as morning prayer, Vespers, and Compline without Eucharist. The surplice is traditionally full-length in the arm and hangs at least down to the knee. \n\nIn German Lutheran and United Churches, where the black academic gown with preaching bands have commonly been in use since the early 19th century, the surplice is sometimes worn over the academic gown and preaching bands as a 'compromise' between the black gown, which has become a symbol of Protestantism among Germans, and the traditional Christian symbol of white for grace and the sacrament.\nAmong the Paleo-orthodoxy and emerging church movements in Protestant and evangelical churches, particularly Methodist, Lutheran, and Presbyterian, many clergy are reclaiming not only the traditional Eucharist vestments of alb and chasuble, but also cassock and surplice (typically a full length Old English style) with appropriate liturgical stole, and cassock and Geneva gown for a Liturgy or Service of the Word.\n\n\n\"Original text from the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica\".\n"}
{"id": "3840912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3840912", "title": "Thunderstone (folklore)", "text": "Thunderstone (folklore)\n\nThroughout Africa, Europe, and Asia flint arrowheads and axes turned up by farmer's plows were considered to have fallen from the sky. They were often thought to be thunderbolts and are called \"thunderstones\". It was not until travelers returned from far-away places where these implements were in actual use that the origins of these objects became known. Even then, these travelers' tales received little popular credence.\n\nIn Scandinavia thunderstones were frequently worshiped as family gods who kept off spells and witchcraft. Beer was poured over them as an offering and they were sometimes anointed with butter. In Switzerland the owner of a thunderstone whirls it, on the end of a thong, three times round his head, and throws it at the door of his dwelling at the approach of a storm to prevent lightning from striking the house. In Italy they are hung around children's necks to protect them from illness and to ward off the Evil eye. In Roman times they were sewn inside dog-collars along with a little piece of coral to keep the dogs from going mad. In Sweden they offer protection from elves. In the French Alps they protect sheep, while elsewhere in France they are thought to ease childbirth. In Burma they are used as a cure and preventative for appendicitis. In Japan they cure boils and ulcers. In Malay and Sumatra they are used to sharpen the kris, are considered very lucky objects, and are credited with being touchstones for gold. Among the Slavs they cure warts on man and beast, and during Passion Week they have the property to reveal hidden treasure.\n\nIn the British Isles some idea of their original use is retained, and they are often referred to variously as elf arrows, elf bolts, elf darts, or fairy arrows, and are said to have been shot by elves or fairies at a person or animal to bewitch them. On the other hand, they are thought, for the most part, to protect the possessor from these little people. The presence of flint instruments found in British cinerary urns of the Roman Era is explained by two theories: 1) they were used by the mourners to lacerate themselves; 2) flints (like all fire-producing stones) are potent magic for preventing the return of the dead. In Ireland flint stones are soaked in water to make a medicine which is good for man or beast. Mounted in silver they are worn as protection against elf-shot, i.e. elf- or fairy-inflicted disease.\nIn North Carolina and Alabama there is a belief that flint stones placed in the fire will keep hawks from molesting the chickens, a belief which probably stems from the European idea that elf arrows protect domestic animals. In Brazil, flint is used as a divining stone for gold, treasure and water. \n\nDuring the Middle Ages many of these well-wrought stones were venerated as weapons, which during the \"war in heaven\" had been used in driving forth Satan and his hosts; hence, in the 11th century the Byzantine emperor sent to the Holy Roman emperor a \"heaven axe\"; and in the 12th century a Bishop of Rennes asserted the value of thunderstones as a divinely appointed means of securing success in battle, safety on the sea, security against thunder, and immunity from unpleasant dreams. \nEven as late as the 17th century, a French ambassador brought a stone hatchet, which still exists in the museum at Nancy, as a present to the Prince-Bishop of Verdun, and claimed that it had healing properties.\n\nThe flint was an object of veneration by most American Indian tribes. According to the Pawnee Origin myth, stone weapons and implements were given to man by the Morning Star. Among the K'iche' people of Guatemala, there is a myth that a flint fell from the sky and broke into 1600 pieces, each of which became a god. Tohil, the God who gave them fire, is still represented as flint. This myth provides a parallel to the almost universal belief in the thunderstone, and reminds us that Jupiter (mythology) was once worshipped in the form of a flint stone. The Cherokee shaman invokes a flint when he is about to scarify a patient prior to applying his medicine. Among the Pueblos we have the Flint Societies which, in most tribes, were primarily concerned with weather and witchcraft, but sometimes had to do with war and medicine.\n\nIn many parts of southern England until the middle of the nineteenth century, another name commonly used for fossil Echinoids was 'thunderstone'. This was a name that in all likelihood formed part of another folk tradition that was almost certainly brought to Britain by Danish and Anglo-Saxon invaders more than 1500 years ago. In 1677 Dr. Robert Plot, the first keeper of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, published his classic book \"The Natural History of Oxfordshire\". Plot recorded that in Oxfordshire what we now call fossil echinoids were called thunderstones, as they were thought to have descended from the heavens during a thunderstorm. \nThe St. Peter's Church in Linkenholt, England, was built in 1871 near the location of the old St. Peter's, which had stood for nearly 700 years. The 1871 version of the church included fossil echinoids built into the walls surrounding the windows, a style adopted from the original. This implies that Thunderstone folklore was retained for at least 700 years in England, and had its roots in pagan folklore.\n\nAndrew Dickson White described the discovery of the true origin of thunderstones as a \"line of observation and thought ... fatal to the theological view\". In the last years of the sixteenth century Michael Mercati tried to prove that the \"thunder-stones\" were weapons or implements of early races of men; but for some reason his book was not published until the following century, when other thinkers had begun to take up the same idea. In 1723 Antoine Laurent de Jussieu addressed the French Academy on \"The Origin and Uses of Thunder-stones\". He showed that recent travellers from various parts of the world had brought a number of weapons and other implements of stone to France, and that they were essentially similar to what in Europe had been known as \"thunderstones\". A year later this fact was firmly embedded in the minds of French scientists by the Jesuit Joseph-Francois Lafitau, who published a work showing the similarity between the customs of aborigines then existing in other lands and those of the early inhabitants of Europe. So began, in these works of Jussieu and Lafitau, the science of ethnology. It was more than 100 years later, after the French Revolution of 1830, that the political climate in Europe was free enough of religious sentiment for archaeological discoveries to be dispassionately investigated and the conclusion reached that human existence spanned a much greater period of time than any Christian theologian had dreamt of.\n\nIn 1847, a man previously unknown to the world at large, Boucher de Perthes, published in Paris the first volume of work on \"Celtic and Antediluvian Antiquities\", and in this he showed engravings of typical flint implements and weapons, of which he had discovered thousands upon thousands in the high drift beds near Abbeville, in northern France. So far as France was concerned, he was met at first by what he calls \"a conspiracy of silence\", and then by a contemptuous opposition among orthodox scientists, led by Elie de Beaumont. \n\nIn 1863 the thunderstone myth was further discredited by Charles Lyell in his book \"Geological Evidences of the Antiquity of Man\". Lyell had previously opposed the new ideas about human antiquity, and his changing sides gave further force to the scientific evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "44430072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44430072", "title": "Timeline of fictional stories about the Mona Lisa", "text": "Timeline of fictional stories about the Mona Lisa\n\nHere below is a chronology of fictional and semi-fictional stories (including films, episodes in TV series, as well as literary works) that revolve, either wholly or partially, around the famous \"Mona Lisa\", a portrait of Lisa del Giocondo painted by Leonardo da Vinci during the Renaissance in Florence. The years listed on the left refer to the year of release of these works of fiction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52067517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52067517", "title": "Union Chapel, Marietta, Georgia", "text": "Union Chapel, Marietta, Georgia\n\nThe ruins of Union Chapel, also known as Nesbitt Union Chapel, are situated on Powder Springs Street between Marietta and Powder Springs, in Marietta, Georgia. The original chapel consisted of a single room, with a stony façade and Gothic-style arched windows and door. The building had deteriorated significantly by the 1940s, becoming unsafe for use. By the early 21st Century only a corner of the original has remained standing. The Nesbitt/Union Chapel played a significant role in the religious, social, and agricultural history of Cobb County, in addition to its association with several of the County's prominent, early families. Currently, the Chapel ruins are barely visible from the road, obscured by trees and heavy underbrush. The ruins of the Nesbitt Union Chapel, constructed of rammed earth in the Gothic Revival style, are architecturally significant for the unusual material and a style uncommon in religious architecture in rural Georgia.\n\nAs a center of worship, the Chapel is both unusual and significant in its inclusion of all denominations. Its location three miles distant from Marietta seems trivial today, though undertaking that journey along dirt roads in a horse-drawn buggy would have been arduous even under ideal conditions. The Chapel allowed local families to worship close to home, regardless of their religious affiliation. Several Marietta congregations adopted the Chapel as a mission, rotating services for Baptist, Methodist, Episcopal, and Presbyterian parishioners. The inter-denominational nature of the Chapel reflected its group of Trustees, which included Episcopalians (Irwin and Starnes), Presbyterians (Nesbitt), and Baptists (Ward).\n\nThe earliest reference to the property—2nd Section, 17th District, Land Lot 7—is in the 1832 Gold Lottery of Georgia, when it was deeded to William Alexander. A warranty deed recorded September 7, 1882, documents a transaction between Marietta Savings Bank and R.L., possibly Rebecca Lanier, Nesbitt (Cobb County Deed Book G, p. 203). The property was deeded by Robert T. and Rebecca Nesbitt to a group of five trustees in December 1886 (Cobb County Deed Book J, p. 24). Those trustees were James G. Hughes, Robert C. Irwin, Robert T. Nesbitt, Hugh N. Starnes, and John R. Ward.\n\nThe property legally remained in this trusteeship, as long as it was used for the purposes stated in the 1886 deed. Though the structure fell into disrepair, the trustees and local residents continued to meet and worship on the property, in an effort to hold to the original, legal document. Around 1972, the property appears in a Sheriff's Tax Deed. The tax exemption on the property had apparently been removed and taxes were reported as owed. It remains unclear how a local landowner gained control of the parcel, but property taxes were paid on the land until 2004.\n\nSome local residents still gathered and worshipped on the site until the official formation of the Friends of Nesbitt Union Chapel (FUNC), a non-profit task force of the Cobb Land Trust, in 2002. At that time, small events and services were held on the site with the intention of honoring the provisos of the 1886 deed. The FNUC undertook a lengthy legal fight with the Clarkes to regain control of the property, spurred on by the demolition in 2004 of most of the remaining structure. In 2010, Cobb Superior Court named the Cobb County Commissioners as trustees of the property, which continues to be used for educational and worship purposes, primarily by the members of the FNUC. The organization hopes to expand these functions in the future, following a rehabilitation of the site by Cobb County.\n\nA wood-framed, pointed-arch door with marble lintel provided entrance to the building in the center of the north façade, facing Powder Springs Road. A lancet-arch vent with wooden louvers was centered above the door. The doorway was covered by a wooden porch, with shingled, shed roof, supported by slender wood posts and brackets. The stoop, approached by two steps, consisted of stone topped with wood planks. The wood steeple was centrally positioned along the ridgeline. Its shingled roof flared out at the corners and was supported by rounded arches on all four sides. The base of the steeple was clad in board and batten siding. The steeple contained a cast iron cupola bell manufactured by Thomas Kane and Company, of Chicago, Illinois. The bell remained in situ until the mid-twentieth century.\n\nFour lancet-arch windows lined the east and west facades of the Chapel. The double-hung windows had marble sills and louvered, wooden shutters. On the south façade, two double-hung, lancet-arch windows flanked a semicircular apse protruding from the building.\n\nThe interior walls of the Chapel were covered with white plaster and the floor with wood planks. At the north end, a carved pulpit stood on a wood dais accessed by two steps at each end. A wood stove probably occupied the northeast corner of the building, based on the presence of a stovepipe in several photographs. Wood pews occupied the sanctuary and were donated to St. James Episcopal Church in Marietta following the deterioration of the Chapel.\n\nReceipts and numerous personal accounts indicate that there was an organ in the sanctuary, purchased from the Estey Organ Company in downtown Atlanta, on May 12, 1881 (Fig. 12). Estey, based in Brattleboro, Vermont, was the primary manufacturer of reed organs in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Reed organs were more portable than later pipe models, and therefore better suited to small churches like Nesbitt/Union.\n\nNo other extant structures remain on the property, though personal accounts and oral histories mention a school on the property. In A Woman's Place: 52 Women of Cobb County, Georgia, 1850-1981, Mary Anne Irwin refers to \"the two to three rooms of the Old Union Chapel School,\" where she taught for over thirty years. It remains unclear whether the school was located in a separate building or classes were held in the Chapel. Another structure notably absent from the property is the privy, though personal accounts indicate it stood in the southeast corner of the property.\n\nMarietta and the surrounding area were settled and thriving well before the founding of Atlanta. Chartered by the state in 1834, the town was named for Mary Cobb, the wife of United States Senator Thomas W. Cobb, for whom the county was named. As was the case with so many early Georgia communities, the railroad was the catalyst for growth and development in Marietta. The Western & Atlantic line connected Marthasville—known today as Atlanta—with Marietta in 1845. Situated at over 1000 feet above sea level and blessed with abundant natural springs, Marietta provided a cool respite from the oppressive summer weather. Hotels, boarding houses, and restaurants sprang up near the railroad to accommodate seasonal visitors. The town quickly became a popular getaway location for wealthy planters from south and coastal Georgia.\n\nSome of these summer visitors chose to relocate permanently to Marietta, including Robert Taylor Nesbitt, a descendant of one of Georgia's most distinguished families. Nesbitt's mother, Martha Deloney Berrien Nesbitt Duncan (1820-1896), hailed from Savannah, where her father, Richard Berrien, was a prominent physician. He died in an 1820 yellow fever epidemic when Martha was still an infant. Though she never knew her father, she was well acquainted with her uncle, John McPherson Berrien. John Berrien was a United States Senator, renowned orator and jurist, and the namesake of Berrien County in south Georgia. Several accounts describe Martha as sharing her uncle's gifts for elocution and civic engagement.\n\nMartha was related to another of the state's most prominent families through marriage. Her stepfather, General Robert Taylor, was one of Georgia's wealthiest planters, owning estates in Savannah and Morgan County, totaling over 17,000 acres at the time of his death. He built his summer home in Athens, a Greek Revival mansion known as the Taylor-Grady House, now designated as a National Historic Landmark. Martha married her first husband, Hugh O'Keefe Nesbitt, in this home in 1839. Like Martha Berrien's father, Hugh Nesbitt was a physician, though he gave up his practice to manage her considerable plantation holdings in Early County. The couple purchased a home from Judge David Irwin in Marietta in 1852, though Hugh Nesbitt died shortly thereafter. Martha remarried in 1861, to Dr. William Duncan of Savannah. Following his death in 1879, she split her time between the home of her granddaughter in Griffin and her son's Marietta estate, Farm Hill, where she became an influential figure in local social and civic circles.\n\nRobert Taylor Nesbitt (1840-1913) assisted in the management of his family's plantations from an early age, taking on greater responsibility after his father died when he was fifteen. Following his service in the Confederate Army, Colonel Nesbitt married his fiancée, Rebecca Lanier Saffold (1845-1937) in Madison, in 1865. He continued to manage the family holdings in South Georgia until the lingering effects of a bout with diphtheria and the rigors of his military service took their toll. Records indicate that Nesbitt acquired his Marietta property, called Farm Hill, on December 30, 1881, settling there permanently for the benefit of his health. Robert Nesbitt served in the State Senate and as the State Commissioner of Agriculture from 1890 to 1900. He wrote a monthly column, \"Mr. Nesbitt's Monthly Talk,\" in the Marietta Journal, focusing on different crops and agricultural issues. Nesbitt died in 1912, and was buried in the Episcopal Cemetery following a service in the Union Chapel. Rebecca, the daughter of Mary Harris Saffold and William Oliver Saffold, was born in Madison. After donating the land and Chapel to the trustees, Mrs. Nesbitt played the organ in the Chapel. She served as the first president of the Kennesaw Chapter of the Daughters of the Confederacy. She is also buried in the Episcopal Cemetery in Marietta.\n\nAs early as 1852, the Nesbitt's were acquainted with another leading Marietta family, the Irwins, who sold them their first property in the area. Judge David Irwin (1807-1885) was a self-taught lawyer, admitted to the state bar at twenty-one before opening a practice in Madison. Irwin moved to Marietta in 1835, eventually accumulating a sizable estate in the area. In addition to serving in the State Senate, Irwin was the first judge elected to the newly created Blue Ridge Judicial Circuit. Despite his lack of formal legal education, Irwin made a significant, lasting impact on Georgia's judicial system, as one of three commissioners appointed to prepare a code of laws for the state. Along with Judges Richard H. Clark and Thomas R.R. Cobb, Irwin produced a comprehensive set of statutes for the state, published in 1861.\n\nThese two illustrious Cobb County families came together in 1886, with the formal establishment of the Union Chapel. A deed recorded on December 20, 1886, documents the transfer of a one acre parcel and building from Robert T. and Rebecca Nesbitt to a group of five trustees: John R. Ward, James G. Hughes, Robert C. Irwin, Robert T. Nesbitt, and Hugh N. Starnes. According to the deed, the Chapel was to \"be used as a place of worship for all Christian denominations, for skools [sic] and agricultural societies and for no other purposes.\" A chapel with an active membership clearly existed on the site prior to 1886, since the deed itself includes transfer of \"the building known as Union Chappel [sic].\"\n\nThe Chapel trustees were certainly pillars of the community, though little is known about James G. Hughes and John R. Ward. While no birth or death date is recorded for Hughes, a grave in the Roswell Methodist Cemetery roughly corresponding to the correct period bears the same name. His profession and relation to the other trustees remain unknown. John Ward, the son of Thomas Jefferson Ward and Mary Jane Sorrells, was born in 1831 and served as County Surveyor for many years before his death in 1900. He was married but had no children and was buried at Midway Presbyterian Church Cemetery.\n\nRobert Cessne Irwin (1843-1921) was the son of Judge David Irwin and Sarah Baldwin Royston. He served with the Cobb Mountaineers during the Civil War, rising to the rank of Captain. In 1867, he married Mary Wills Lane of Washington, Georgia and they had six children together. Shortly after the War, Irwin was appointed Solicitor General of Cobb County, a position he held until 1891. For the last thirty years of his life, he served as clerk of the State Insurance Department. His funeral service was held at Union Chapel, before interment in the City Cemetery.\n\nHugh O'Keefe Nesbitt Starnes (1856-1926) was born in Augusta, Georgia, to Ebenezer Nesbitt Starnes and Mary Ann White. He graduated from the University of Georgia in 1875 with a degree in agriculture. In 1880, he married Lucie Berrien McIntosh, a niece of Robert Taylor Nesbitt. After a brief stint as an attorney in Savannah, Starnes relocated to Marietta in 1882 and went to work in the business office of the Atlanta Constitution. He went on to serve as Assistant State School Commissioner and horticulturist at the State Experiment Station in Griffin. In 1898, he joined the faculty of the College of Agriculture at his alma mater. Hugh and Lucie Starnes had four children; both were buried in the Episcopal Cemetery in Marietta.\n\nAnecdotal evidence and oral histories suggest that the original chapel was a wooden structure destroyed by fire. This supposition is supported by several announcements in the Marietta Journal in July and August 1886, marking a fundraising effort for the rebuilding of the chapel. An October 1886 article in The Southern Cultivator and Dixie Farmer provides additional details, stating: \"strange to say, at the beginning of this year, the chapel was once more destroyed by fire.\" The author goes on to celebrate the energetic fundraising of the women in the congregation for the rebuilding effort. In addition, George W. Childs, publisher of the Philadelphia Public Ledger, donated \"a most beautiful large Bible\" for use in the Chapel.\n\nIf the burned structure referred to in The Southern Cultivator was a chapel, it is likely that the Union Chapel existed in some form on the site well before its official endowment in 1886. Several additional facts lead to a conclusion that the 1886 deed merely formalized and gave legal standing to the existing functions of the Chapel and the roles of its leaders. The Chapel trustees are mentioned, though not named, in multiple articles predating the signing of the deed in December 1886. While no records confirm the identity of the earlier trustees, those named in the 1886 deed and members of their families were clearly previously involved with the Chapel. Two fundraising events for the rebuilding of the Chapel were held at the home of Hugh N. Starnes in 1886. Starnes' wife and Rebecca Nesbitt served on the organizing committee for the events, hosted by \"the ladies of Union Chapel.\"\n\nNotices in the local newspapers and church records indicate that the Chapel hosted services regularly, conducted by pastors from around the country. Weddings, funerals, and christenings were also held in the Chapel. Revivals, ice cream socials, and community gatherings took place on the grounds through the first decades of the twentieth century. Some of the significant trustees and members of the congregation during this period were descendants of the Chapel founders.\n\nMary Anne Irwin (1875- 1963), daughter of Thomas Beverly Irwin and Lilla Atkinson, was Judge David Irwin's granddaughter and niece of original trustee, Robert C. Irwin. Though she inherited a sizable plantation from her mother, Mary Anne's calling lay in education. She sharecropped the Atkinson farm, moved to her father's homeplace on Powder Springs Road, and taught school at Union Chapel for more than thirty years. Miss Irwin also wrote a social column, focused on events in the Union Chapel community, for the Marietta Journal, beginning in 1894. In her later years, she became known as the \"Guardian\" of the Union Chapel, for her efforts to repair the deteriorating structure and continue its use. An April 1954 article in the Cobb County Times recounted how Miss Irwin salvaged the Chapel bell and her pleas for help from the community to restore the building. Mary Anne Irwin never married and was buried in the cemetery at St. James Episcopal Church in Marietta.\n\nRobert Beverly Irwin, Sr. (1908-1987), was the son of Mary Anne's brother David Atkinson Irwin and Mildred Bishop Goodman. Born in Falls Church, Virginia, Mr. Irwin moved to Georgia as a child, where he spent summers with his family in Marietta. He practiced law in Atlanta for fifty-two years and served as the attorney for the Chapel trustees for many years, vigorously trying to clarify the ownership of the property prior to his death in 1987. He is buried in the Episcopal Cemetery in Marietta.\n\nThe Chapel was already a center of agricultural learning and fellowship by the time the deed specified its use for agricultural societies in late 1886. A notice in the Marietta Journal on May 21, 1885, refers to \"the grounds of the Phoenix Club, at Union Chapel.\" The history of the Phoenix Club, in which Hugh N. Starnes served as Secretary, is outlined in the October 1886 issue of The Southern Cultivator and Dixie Farmer. Written by \"A. Phoenix,\" the article states that the club was founded by a group of Marietta farmers in August 1883, in a meeting at Union Chapel. Furthermore, the club drew its name from \"the fact that the chapel was erected over the ashes of an antebellum structure.\" \n\nOrganizations like the Phoenix Club played an important role in rural communities during the mid-late Nineteenth Century, as part of a national agricultural reform movement. The first agricultural society in America was established in Philadelphia in 1785, encouraging adoption of new planting and husbandry methods developed in Europe. In 1811, the first American agricultural fair was staged in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, offering prize money for the winning animals and crops. Shortly thereafter, in 1819, the first specialist journal, The American Farmer was created in Baltimore, promoting innovation, experimentation, and new technologies. These events were all manifestations of the impact of the Enlightenment on agriculture in the United States. Beginning in Britain and Europe in the Eighteenth Century, the Enlightenment emphasized scientific examination and discourse and the spread of scientific ideas through societies and publications. This movement had a significant impact on the practice of agriculture and, consequently, its role in society.\n\nLarge-scale farming was the mainstay of the economy in the southern United States, including Georgia. The intensive planting of cotton, in particular, on many plantations, to the exclusion of any other crops, resulted in a devastating decline in soil quality. As Georgia planters sought solutions to their dropping productivity, they turned to science and the national agricultural community. The first agricultural society in Georgia was founded in Hancock County in 1837 and the Augusta-based Southern Cultivator journal began circulation in 1843. The agricultural reform movement in the South and more broadly, across the nation, depended on a network of farmers, scientists, and publishers, disseminating information through journals, local meetings, and fairs.\n\nAgriculture clearly underpinned the lives of many of the founders of the Nesbitt/Union Chapel. Martha Berrien Nesbitt Duncan owned enormous acreage in south and middle Georgia, both through her own family and that of her stepfather, General Robert Taylor. Her first husband Hugh O'Keefe Nesbitt, abandoned his medical practice in order to manage her plantations, a job their son, Robert Taylor Nesbitt, an original Chapel trustee, would assume following his father's death. Robert Nesbitt would eventually be elected State Commissioner of Agriculture and author a monthly column on farming issues in the Marietta Journal. Another original trustee, Hugh O'Keefe Nesbitt Starnes, boasted even more impressive credentials in the field of agriculture, graduating with a degree in the subject from the University of Georgia. He was appointed horticulturist at the Griffin Experiment Station in 1892, joined the faculty in the College of Agriculture at his alma mater in 1898, and authored numerous articles and monographs on agricultural subjects.\n\nStarnes, in particular, embodied the spirit of the agricultural societies and reforms in the late Nineteenth Century and the evolution of agricultural science in Georgia. The formal study of agriculture was relatively new in Georgia at the time, having been introduced to the University curriculum in 1872, when the school was designated a federal land-grant institution. Hugh Starnes would thus have been in one of the first full classes to study agriculture at the University. In 1887, the University established the College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences and, the following year, the Georgia Experiment Station in Griffin, a research facility studying soil erosion and fertilizers. Hugh Starnes would be closely associated with both institutions and the education of future Georgia farmers.\n\nIn The Southern Cultivator, \"A. Phoenix\" notes that in 1886, there were twelve agricultural clubs in Cobb County, prompting the creation of a journal, The Phenix Agriculturalist. According to the article, the Nesbitt/Union Chapel was where \"the most intelligent farmers of Cobb county assembled.\" The proviso in the Nesbitt/Union Chapel deed to include agricultural societies clearly indicates the importance of agricultural education and innovation to the original Trustees.\n"}
{"id": "35395300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35395300", "title": "Vadym Rubel", "text": "Vadym Rubel\n\nVadym A. Rubel (born 19 June 1966) is a Ukrainian historian of the history of Japan, the civilizations of the Classic East and pre-Columbian America and the political history of the Far East. Doctor of science (History) (1999), professor (2002). Graduated from faculty of history of Taras Shevchenko University of Kiev.\n\n1990-1993, he was lecturer of the department of Ancient and Medieval History of Taras Shevchenko University of Kiev. In 1993 he defended his Ph.D. thesis on the topic of \"Political and historical concepts of Medieval Japan XIII – first half of XIV century\". 1993-1994 he worked as a diplomat in the Department of Countries of Asia and the Pacific Rim in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine.\n\nIn 1994 he came back to teaching at the faculty of history of Taras Shevchenko National University of Kiev. Since 1995 – associate professor, since 2000 – professor of the department of Ancient and Medieval History. In 1999 he defended the thesis on the topic “\"Origin of the military samurai State system in Traditional Japan (middle I millennium B.C. – XIV cent. A.D.)\"”, which became the first doctoral thesis in the field of the study of Japan in Ukrainian historical science.\nHe has published about 90 scientific and educational works on History, Philology, Literature and Politology in the field of Orientalism and pre-Columbian Americanology. Author of scientific publications on Japanese, Korean, Chinese, Arabic, Islamic, African and Indianistic studies.\n\nHe published the first textbook in Ukraine on the history of the History of Medieval East (2002) and the first textbook in Ukraine on the history of civilizations of pre-Columbian America (2005), in which he explained the mechanism of the support of social stability social systems of Ancient Indians through the system of strict compliance of status and material welfare given to every individual with the directly proportional quantity of demonstrative sacrificial obligations. He published two summarizing monographs on the modern history of Asia and Africa (2007, 2010), in which he developed and implemented in the scientific circle the concept of post-Middle Ages as a specific and integral epoch in the history of civilizations of Classic East. On the basis of personal studies of many years he developed and implemented in the scientific circle a new system of transcription of Japanese words by means of Ukrainian language. On the basis of personal author’s system of transcription of Japanese words by means of Ukrainian language developed for the first time Ukrainian theme reader for university course “\"The History of Medieval East\"” (2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50566933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50566933", "title": "William Meacham", "text": "William Meacham\n\nWilliam Meacham is an American archaeologist living and working in Hong Kong since 1970. Meacham has written several books on archaeology in southern China.\n\nIn 1977 he published an article on South China archaeology in the journal \"Current Anthropology\", opposing the then general consensus that innovations spread south from the Central Plains of North China. This \"nuclear area hypothesis\" was promoted by Kwang-chih Chang, the prominent doyen of ancient China archaeology. In 2000, in a preface to his own Festschrift, Chang acknowledged: \"On the concept of 'Regional Cultures,' I was very much a late-comer. Judith Treistman (1972) and William Meacham (1977) were both pioneers on this question.\"\n\nMeacham has written several papers and a book on the restoration of the Shroud of Turin in 2002, where Meacham is questioning the restoration methods used by the Catholic Church.\n\nHe recently conducted a successful search to locate a Confederate burial ground of 227 soldiers in Hopkinsville, Kentucky. \n. In researching the epidemic that killed these soldiers encamped at Hopkinsville in 1861, Meacham developed a hypothesis that the disease, at the time called \"Black Measles\", was influenza. He published a lengthy article on the subject.\n\n"}
