{"id": "2453404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2453404", "title": "A True Story", "text": "A True Story\n\nA True Story (, \"Alēthē diēgēmata\"; or ) is a novel written in the second century AD by Lucian of Samosata, a Greek-speaking author of Syrian descent. The novel is a satire of outlandish tales which had been reported in ancient sources, particularly those which presented fantastic or mythical events as if they were true. It is Lucian's best-known work.\n\nIt is the earliest known work of fiction to include travel to outer space, alien lifeforms, and interplanetary warfare. As such, \"A True Story\" has been described as \"the first known text that could be called science fiction\". However the work does not fit into typical literary genres: its multilayered plot and characters have been interpreted as science fiction, fantasy, satire or parody, and have been the subject of much scholarly debate.\n\nThe novel begins with an explanation that the story is not at all \"true\" and that everything in it is, in fact, a complete and utter lie. The narrative begins with Lucian and his fellow travelers journeying out past the Pillars of Heracles. Blown off course by a storm, they come to an island with a river of wine filled with fish and bears, a marker indicating that Heracles and Dionysus have traveled to this point, and trees that look like women. Shortly after leaving the island, they are caught up by a whirlwind and taken to the Moon, where they find themselves embroiled in a full-scale war between the king of the Moon and the king of the Sun over colonization of the Morning Star. Both armies include bizarre hybrid lifeforms. The armies of the Sun win the war by clouding over the Moon and blocking out the Sun's light. Both parties then come to a peace agreement. Lucian then describes life on the Moon and how it is different from life on Earth.\n\nAfter returning to Earth, the adventurers are swallowed by a whale, in whose belly they discover a variety of fish people, whom they wage war against and triumph over. They kill the whale by starting a bonfire and escape by propping its mouth open. Next, they encounter a sea of milk, an island of cheese, and the Island of the Blessed. There, Lucian meets the heroes of the Trojan War, other mythical men and animals, as well as Homer and Pythagoras. They find sinners being punished, the worst of them being the ones who had written books with lies and fantasies, including Herodotus and Ctesias. After leaving the Island of the Blessed, they deliver a letter to Calypso given to them by Odysseus explaining that he wishes he had stayed with her so he could have lived eternally. They then discover a chasm in the ocean, but eventually sail around it, discover a far-off continent and decide to explore it. The book ends abruptly with Lucian stating that their future adventures will be described in the upcoming sequels, a promise which a disappointed scholiast described as \"the biggest lie of all\".\n\nIn one view, Lucian intended his story to be a form of literary criticism, a satire against contemporary and ancient sources which quote fantastic and mythical events as truth. He mentions the tales of Ctesias, Iambulus, and Homer and states that \"what did surprise me was their supposition that nobody would notice they were lying.\" Many characters and events are exaggerated to ridiculous ends to mock the original tellings. As noted by classicist B.P. Reardon, \"above all, it is a parody of literary 'liars' like Homer and Herodotus\". Consequently, Lucian goes on to state that the story recounted in \"True History\" is about \"things I have neither seen nor experienced nor heard tell of from anybody else; things, what is more, that do not in fact exist and could not ever exist at all. So my readers must not believe a word I say.\" He justifies the title by arguing that his is the only truthful mythological story ever written, inasmuch as it is the only one that admits that it is all lies. He also promises a sequel but it is not known if such a sequel exists.\n\nContrary to some classicists, modern science fiction critics do not necessarily view the satirical streak of the story as conflicting with modern notions of science fiction. The defining element of science can rather be found in Lucian's specific, but effective approach to identify false values and misidentifications in contemporary philosophy, which was very much the general term of science then. Additionally, they point out that \"True Stories\" was written in response to another work that also contained science fictional elements, that is Antonius Diogenes’ lost \"Of the Wonderful Things Beyond Thule\", whose protagonist also reached the Moon. The estranging feel of the story as a defining SF element has also been noted:\nAccording to Grewell, whose definition of science fiction focuses on the struggle between supposedly superior and inferior life forms, \"part of the tale that qualifies it as science fiction, rather than as fantasy or imaginative fiction, involves Lucian and his seamen in a battle for territorial and colonization rights:\nIn sum, typical science fiction themes and topoi appearing in \"True Stories\" are:\n\nA middle position seems to be taken up by the English critic Kingsley Amis, who acknowledged the science fiction and satirical character of \"True Stories\" at the same time:\nModern equivalents, combining science fiction and parody in equal measure, may be found in Voltaire's \"Micromégas\" and the works of Douglas Adams.\n\nIn addition to the above, the book is an early expression of the idea of crossing the Atlantic and exploring lands that might lie on its other side – some 1400 years before Columbus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5384183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5384183", "title": "Admission to practice law", "text": "Admission to practice law\n\nAn admission to practice law is acquired when a lawyer receives a license to practice law. In jurisdictions with two types of lawyer, as with barristers and solicitors, barristers must gain admission to the bar whereas for solicitors there are distinct practising certificates.\n\nBecoming a lawyer is a widely varied process around the world. Common to all jurisdictions are requirements of age and competence; some jurisdictions also require documentation of citizenship or immigration status. However, the most varied requirements are those surrounding the preparation for the license, whether it includes obtaining a law degree, passing an exam, or serving in an apprenticeship. In English, admission is also called a law license. Basic requirements vary from country to country, as described below.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, after admission the lawyer needs to maintain a current practising certificate to be permitted to offer services to the public.\n\nThe African Union comprises all 55 countries on the Continent of Africa. It is probably best to seek out each specific nation for its qualifications as each can vary widely between them. So long as you hold a legal education, often it is straightforward. However, most often the biggest obstacle is residency for foreign educated lawyers.\n\nNamibia has a detailed act that fully delineates the requisites to be a Legal Practitioner. Generally, citizenship or extensive residency is required.\n\nLegal practice in Kenya is governed by the Advocates Act, Chapter 16 of the Laws of Kenya. Only lawyers admitted to the Bar, known as Advocates of the High Court of Kenya, have the right of audience before Kenyan courts. To be an advocate, (which is concurrent with being a member of the Law Society of Kenya) one must first complete a law degree from a recognised university in the Commonwealth, then attend the Kenya School of Law for a postgraduate Diploma in Legal Practice for training in more practical legal subjects such as conveyancing and evidence, and complete a mandatory six-month articles of pupillage under a lawyer of five years' standing.\n\nUpon completion of the requisite academic and practical training, one must 'petition' the chief justice of the judiciary for admission to the bar by filing the requisite documents, including the petition in a prescribed format under the Advocates Act and an accompanying affidavit, a certificate of completion of pupillage and two certificates of moral fitness by practising lawyers of five years' standing, one of which must be from the petitioner's supervisor in chambers (referred to as 'pupil master'), and pay a fee.\n\nThe petition is addressed to both the registrar of the High Court on behalf of the chief justice and the secretary/CEO of the Law Society of Kenya, and upon approval by the Council of the Law Society, one is 'called to the bar'. The call is made in open court by taking an oath before the chief justice, who pronounces the admission. Usually, several lawyers are admitted to the bar at the same session.\n\nTo maintain eligibility to practice before courts, one must pay an annual fee for a 'practising certificate' to the Law Society of Kenya, although the certificate is issued by the Court Registrar. Non-payment renders one ineligible to appear before courts. Lawyers who do not wish to appear before courts need not take out a certificate, but in practice most lawyers do so as it is generally required by most employers hiring the services of a lawyer, since only advocates can sign any documents in such capacity.\n\nAdvocates who wish to administer oaths—usually in affidavit format—must apply to the Chief Justice to be appointed Commissioners for Oaths, whereas those who wish to perform functions similar to notaries public in the United Kingdom must have been advocates for five years, and formally apply to be a notary public to the Chief Justice through the Court Registrar. To appear before the Supreme Court, one must be an advocate of seven years' standing.\n\nIn Australia, prospective lawyers must complete an undergraduate LL.B. or graduate JD or a Diploma in Law and complete the practical training requirement which is met by completing an approved practical legal training course or articles of clerkship.\n\nAdmission to practice is a matter for each State. However, a person holding a practising certificate in any Australian jurisdiction is entitled to practise from time to time in another Australian jurisdiction without gaining admission in that jurisdiction.\n\nNew Zealand practitioners may apply for admission pursuant to \"Trans-Tasman Mutual Recognition Act 1997\" (Cth).\n\n\nA person is admitted as a legal practitioner after completing the required academic and practical training requirements. These matters are dealt with in the \"Legal Profession Act 2004\". The applicant applies to the Legal Profession Admission Board who assesses applications (both local and foreign), and is ultimately admitted as a lawyer by the Supreme Court of New South Wales (s31 of the \"Legal profession Act 2004\").\n\nAfter admission, a person is then entitled to apply for a practising certificate from the Law Society of New South Wales (if they wish to practice as a solicitor), or the NSW Bar Association (if they wish to practice as a barrister). The practising certificate requires the payment of fees, insurance and a contribution to the fidelity fund (which compensates clients in some circumstances).\n\nUnder the \"Legal Profession Act 2004\" (Vic), an individual may practise law, as a legal practitioner, in the state of Victoria if he or she has been admitted to the legal profession in any Australian jurisdiction and holds a current local or interstate practising certificate. Furthermore, the \"Legal Profession (Admission) Rules 2008\" (Vic) replace articles of clerkship with supervised workplace training and make changes to the process of admission to practice. Under these new rules, upon completion of an approved training course and attainment of an accredited law degree, a law graduate needs to complete either a Practical Legal Training (PLT) program or Supervised Workplace Training (SWT) to be admitted to practise law in Victoria.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, one must first obtain a recognized degree (a bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree), pass the National Judicial Examination, and complete a one-year apprenticeship.\n\nFiji requires a Bachelor of Law degree (four years of study) as well as the successful completion of either the Professional Diploma in Legal Practice offered by the University of the South Pacific or Graduate Diploma in Legal Practice offered at the University of Fiji, or an equivalent Law Degree and bar admission course from abroad.\n\nHong Kong makes a distinction between barristers and solicitors. Admission to either profession requires a law degree (either the four-year LL.B. or the two-year Juris Doctor) and a Postgraduate Certificate in Laws (which requires nine months). The apprenticeship to become a barrister is only one year, while a solicitor must apprentice for two years.\n\nForeign lawyers (from any jurisdiction) may be admitted as solicitors by passing the Overseas Qualified Lawyers Examination and satisfying a three months residence requirement. Foreign lawyers may also be admitted as barristers by passing the Barristers Qualification Examination.\n\nIn India, prospective lawyers must complete an undergraduate law degree after 12 years of schooling and obtain an Honours Law Degree, (actually a double degree) where the course is a five-year course. The first undergraduate foundational and generic degree, (usually B.A.Law but in some cases Bachelor of General Laws/Bachelor of Socio-Legal Studies etc.) is awarded after three years of study, and the professional Law Degree called the LL.B. (Honours) Degree, which has a substantial component of Practical training, is earned after two years of further legal studies.\n\nAlternatively any graduate with a bachelor's degree in any subject (obtained after 15 years of education, i.e. after graduation), can enroll for a second graduate degree in law of a three-year course (LL.B. Degree). The 5 Year LL.B. (honours) Degree and the 3-year LL.B. Degree are the only qualifying Professional Degrees recognized for entering the legal Profession in India.\n\nLaw Graduates in India are not entitled to call themselves advocates and can not appear in courts even if they call themselves Lawyers.\nIndia requires all Law Graduates, intending to enter the profession of practising Law as Advocates, to first enroll themselves on the Roll of Advocates of any State Bar Council (regional authorities under the overall authority of the Bar Council of India)and to appear for the All India Bar Examination (AIBE) conducted by the Bar Council of India which is the Institution regulating the Profession of Legal Practice. It is now mandatory for all Law School Graduates, graduating from 2009 to 2010 onwards to qualify in the All India Bar Examination without which they shall not be admitted to practice in Courts and cannot refer to themselves as Advocates. After being enrolled by one of the State Bar Councils, and clearing the All India Bar Examination, a Law Graduate is an Advocate and can appear in Court representing clients.\n\nOnly after the Law graduate whose name is entered upon the Roll of Advocates maintained by any one of the State Bar Councils and issued The Certificate of Enrollment (Sanad)in evidence thereof, appears for and clears the All India Bar Examination, and earns a Certificate of Practise issued by the Bar Council of India, can style himself as an Advocate and Practise in Indian Courts.\n\nAll Advocates in India, irrespective of which State Bar Council they are registered, have a Right of Practise in all High Courts and their Subordinate Courts and Tribunals throughout the Territory of India under Section 30 of The Advocates Act.\n\nHowever to practise Law before the Supreme Court of India, Advocates must first appear for and qualify in the Supreme Court Advocate on Record Examination conducted by the Supreme Court.\n\nIsrael requires an undergraduate law degree (LL.B., which is a three-and-a-half-year program), a one-year apprenticeship, and the passing of the bar examination.\n\nJapan requires an undergraduate degree in any field (which requires 4 years of study), a Juris Doctor (which lasts 2 or 3 years), the passing of the national bar exam, a 12-month apprenticeship which incorporates additional coursework and passing the graduation examination of apprenticeship.\n\nThe Jordanian Bar Association requires both academic, practical and oral exams for admission to the bar. The probationer must hold a bachelor's degree or equivalent in Law.\n\nThe Bar Association requires a minimum of two years of training under supervision of an Attorney. However, if a post-graduate degree in law is attained, a reduction to one year of training is possible. The Bar grants the probationer, at different stages of his training, special rights of audience to appear before specific courts.\n\nThe probationer may submit a written request, at any stage of his training, to be enrolled in the written exams that the Bar holds 4 times a year. If he/she attains an exam mark of (15/25) or higher, then the probationer will progress to the oral exam conducted by a legal committee elected from a combination of judges, professors and senior lawyers. If he/she passes the oral exam, then they are required to submit a research paper. Each probationer must research a legal subject, submit a written paper, and discuss his/her findings before the committee. If he/she passes, the probationer must undertake an oath before the Minister of Justice, the conclusion of which grants him entry to the Bar. The process requires, on average, around two-and-a-half years to satisfy the Bar Association's requirements to practice law. However, it should be mentioned that only Jordanians may petition the Bar Association to practice law.\n\nLebanon requires a Lebanese bachelor's degree in law in order to be able to apply to one of two Bar Associations. Upon acceptance, a three-year internship is required at the office of an attorney-at-law, after which the candidate will be subject to oral and written examinations.\n\nLawyers in Lebanon should be Lebanese for at least 10 years.\n\nIn South Korea, currently there are two types of admission to practice law: (i)until 2017, one can be admitted to practice law by passing the exam called 사법시험 (roughly translated as \"Judicial Examination\") which requires, as a pre-requisite to apply for the exam, 35 credits of legal education in undergraduate level and certain level of English qualification. Passers should go through two-year training course at the Judicial Research and Training Institute, a national institution, before they are admitted to practice law; and (ii) from 2012, one can be admitted to practice law by passing the exam called 변호사시험 (roughly translated as \"Attorney Examination\") which requires prior completion of three-year law school course with the degree called 법무석사 (roughly translated as \"Master of Practical Law\" and it is equivalent to Juris Doctor in the United States).\n\nLawyers in Kazakhstan must complete an undergraduate law degree and pass the state examination.\n\nMalaysia requires advocates and solicitors to be admitted to the Malaysian Bar. The prerequisite is either a Bachelor of Laws (Hons) degree (an LL.B (Hons)., which requires four years of study) from the local law faculties or a call as a Barrister in the UK or a Certificate in Legal Practice, which is a post-graduate qualification on procedural law equivalent to a master's degree and taking approximately nine months to complete, and a nine-month pupillage. Advocates and Solicitors are entitled to appear before the courts and/or perform solicitors' work, as the legal profession in Malaysia is fused without any distinction between barristers and solicitors.\n\nThe East Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak have their own sets of criteria for admission to their own respective law societies.\n\nNew Zealand requires an undergraduate law degree (LL.B., which lasts four years), and completion of the Professional Legal Studies Course (which lasts five months).\nAustralian lawyers can apply for mutual recognition if they're admitted, for admission to the courts as a lawyer in New Zealand.\n\nLawyers in Pakistan are called Advocates.\nTo enjoy rights of audience in the Courts in Pakistan, a prospective lawyer/advocate must obtain a Bachelor's/equivalent degree followed by a Qualifying Law Degree (LL.B of three years) from a recognized Pakistani or common law jurisdiction country's university. All legal education in Pakistan is taught in the English language. After that, they must undertake a one year of training under a senior lawyer (called Pupillage/ Apprenticeship/ Intern-ship /Training) at the conclusion of which, they have to take a Bar exam consisting of multiple choice question paper( or in some cases a professional exam) and an interview with a committee of lawyers. After that the respective Provincial Bar Council may grant him or her the rights of audience in the lower courts (i.e. courts lower than the High Court).\n\nAn advocate enrolled with Provincial Bar Council can practice anywhere in the country except the High Courts and Supreme Court of Pakistan. He she will earn rights of audience in the High Courts after a further two years of practice in lower courts, at the end of which (in some Provincial Bar Council's) the advocate has to sit another professional exam and an interview with a judge of a High Court.\n\nAfter a further 10 years' practice in the High Courts, the candidate has to sit another professional exam and an interview with a judge of the Supreme Court to be given the rights of audience in the Supreme Court of Pakistan.\n\nThe exams are usually conducted to ensure that the quality of lawyers being produced is maintained to a certain level. The interview is then another opportunity for a senior judge and members of the provincial Bar Council to meet the candidate and see if he or she is fit to be admitted as an advocate of the lower courts/ High Courts or the Supreme Court.\n\nTo practice law in the Philippines, one must have fulfilled the non-academic and academic requirements.\nFor non-academic requirements, one must be a Filipino, be at least 21 years old, be a resident of the Philippines, and have the moral and other non-academic qualifications needed.\nIn terms of academic requirements, one must have obtained an undergraduate degree (with major, focus or concentration in any of the subjects of History, Economics, Political Science, Logic, English or Spanish), has obtained a Bachelor of Laws degree (or equivalent such as Juris Doctor) from a law school recognized by the Secretary of Education. \nThey must have also taken and passed (75% general average, with no subject falling below 50%) the Bar Exam, taken the Attorney's Oath before the Supreme Court, signed the Roll of Attorneys, remain in good standing with the Integrated Bar of the Philippines, and continually participates in the Mandatory Continuing Legal Education.\n\nPersons seeking admission to the Singapore Bar must obtain an approved law degree through completing a course of study of at least three academic years leading to that degree as a full-time internal candidate from an approved university. The degree is typically an LL.B. or an LL.B. (honours), depending on the university, or a J.D. (from one of only four approved US universities or Singapore Management University and Singapore University of Social Sciences). They are then required to sit for the Singapore Bar Examinations, which is divided into Part A (for overseas graduates from approved overseas universities only) and Part B (a five-month practical course, compulsory for both local and overseas graduates). They are further required to complete a six-month Practice Training Contract before they can be called to the Bar as \"Advocates and Solicitors\" of the Supreme Court of Singapore. Advocates and Solicitors are entitled to appear before courts or perform solicitors' work, as the legal profession in Singapore is fused without any distinction between barristers and solicitors.\n\nSri Lanka requires an attorney to be admitted and enrolled as an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka to practice law. One must pass the required law exams at the Sri Lanka Law College, and then spend one year in apprenticeship to a practicing attorney. To sit for the exams, students must enrolled students of the Sri Lanka Law College, or be qualified by gaining an LL.B. from a local or foreign university.\n\nAmong European Union members, the Diplomas Directive (Directive no. 89/48/EEC) states that those who have obtained a license or diploma in one state can pursue the profession in another state. Thus, it is not difficult for a law degree in one jurisdiction to be used as a qualifying degree in another jurisdiction within the European Union.\n\nIn Austria, an attorney (\"Rechtsanwalt\" in German) must meet the following requirements:\n\n\nFurthermore, trainee lawyers may only register as attorneys after they have accumulated a total of five years of professional experience (including the apprenticeship and the clerkship).\n\nIn Belgium, a prospective lawyer (\"advocaat\" in Dutch, \"avocat\"/\"avocat\" in French) must meet following requirements:\n\nDuring the three-year apprenticeship the prospective lawyer is equivalent to a licensed lawyer, and can for instance issue legal opinions and directly represent clients before all courts (except for the Supreme Court).\n\nAll attorneys in Croatia have to be members of the Croatian Bar Association as well as members of local bar associations (mandatory membership). The membership requires completion of the one-cycle five-year master's degree, the Bar Examination in the Republic of Croatia (which can be accessed after at least 18 months of apprenticeship), and at least three years of experience in a law office or in judicial bodies (or five years of experience on legal jobs outside judiciary), the time before Bar Examination included.\nA person must meet the following conditions in order to be admitted to practice law in the Czech republic:\n\nIn Denmark, to use the title of advokat one must complete an LL.B. (three years of study) and an LL.M. (which awards the academic title of Candidata Juris, and requires two years of study), followed by a three-year apprenticeship, one year as an assistant lawyer, and an exam which has a moot court element.\n\nTo become a French lawyer, an \"avocat\" (male) or \"avocate\" (female), one must: \n\nHowever, those with degrees from another country may become a licensed attorney with a French bar by passing an exam. Depending on one's qualifications, a non-French attorney can take the Article 97, 98, 99, or 100 exam. Each of these exams has different requirements.\n\nFrench \"juristes\" (in-house counsels) do not need to hold the Certificat d'aptitude à la profession d'avocat (CAPA).\n\nUntil recently anyone could in principle practice law in Finland, not just qualified lawyers. However, after the entry into force of the Licensed Legal Counsel Act (715/2011) on January 1, 2013 only attorneys that are members of the bar association and who may use the title \"asianajaja\", or licensed legal counsel may represent clients in court. To become a licensed legal counsel requires the completion of a legal education consisting of a Bachelor of Laws degree (or \"oikeusnotaari\", which usually takes three years to complete) and a Master of Laws degree (or \"oikeustieteen maisteri\"), which usually takes one to two years to complete, a traineeship of a minimum of one year. After the traineeship is completed successfully, the district court awards the title of \"varatuomari\" (VT), which is in practice the basic qualification to practice law in any capacity. To be admitted to the Finnish bar association, the same legal education requirement as for licensed legal counsel applies, but the traineeship requirement is four years and one has to pass a bar exam (Asianajotutkinto, \"Advocates Exam\") which also requires the demonstration of practical skills. In-house counsel are not allowed to be members of the bar, but can be licensed legal counsel \n\nIn Germany, a lawyer (Rechtsanwalt) must be a member of a local bar association. Until now, the subject of law has not been changed to the Bachelor/Master system and is subject to state examinations (in contrast to university examinations). The justification lies in the national interest of admitting high-quality lawyers. The requirement for membership in the local bar association is the passing of two state examinations. The First State Exam (Erstes Staatesexamen or Erste juristische Prüfung) is usually taken after four-and-a-half years of undergraduate law study. A university degree (Dipl.-jur. or Magister Jur.) may be granted by the university after completion of the exam, but this depends on the individual university's practice. Some prominent universities like the Law School of the University of Heidelberg do not grant a degree after completion of the exam.\n\nThe First State Exam is followed by a two-year practical phase that includes work at various institutions, including law firms, courts and public institutions. Upon completion of this two-year training period, a trainee can take the Second State Exam (Zweites Staatsexamen or Assessorprüfung). After successful completion of the second state exam, admission to the bar is completed, and the individual may apply to be licensed to practice as a lawyer or be employed by the state as a judge or state prosecutor.\n\nForeign degrees are not regarded as equivalent in Germany, but membership in a local bar association may be granted to individuals with foreign law degrees after several years of practicing law and is subject to individual examination.\n\nGreece requires that a lawyer (δικηγόρος) be a member of a local bar association. Requirements include an undergraduate law degree, which lasts at least four years, an eighteen-month apprenticeship, and the passing of the bar examination. Candidates should normally be under thirty-five years of age.\nhttp://eklawconsult.business.site/\n\nThe Hungarian Bar Association is a public body and the national organization of attorneys, which has an independent administrative apparatus and budget.\n\nThe regional bar associations are the members of the Hungarian Bar Association.\nThe process is similar in scope to that of the German system, in that there is a dual bar exam and practicum process. After a first degree in law, which is usually approximately 5 years, a student must pass the first level exam. Then, the apprentice must clerk or practice within a law practice for three years. Of which, one year may be substituted with further ph.d. studies. However, they apprentice must then pass a series of 4 oral and written exams within certain subject to officially be admitted to their districts bar and practice law.\n\nFollowing the English tradition, Ireland has both barristers and solicitors. To become a solicitor, one must complete an undergraduate degree or pass the Preliminary Examination. One must then pass the Final Examination, complete a two-year apprenticeship, and finish the concurrent Professional Practice Courses. To become a barrister, one must complete an undergraduate law degree (BCL, which lasts three years or LL.B. which last four years) or the Kings Inns Diploma in Legal Studies which lasts two years, obtain the Degree of Barrister-at-Law from the Honorable Society of King's Inns, and finish a one-year pupillage (known as devilling).\n\nItaly mandates membership in an Italian bar association, which requires completion of an undergraduate law degree (Laurea in Scienze Giuridiche, three years), a graduate law degree (Laurea Specialistica in Giurisprudenza (a two-year program which confers the title of Dottore Magistrale in Giurisprudenza), or simply the one-cycle five-year master's degree (Laurea a ciclo unico Magistrale in Giurisprudenza)), an 18-month apprenticeship, and passing of the professional exam.\n\nThere is a National Bar Association (Consiglio Nazionale Forense) representing the profession of avvocato at the national level in Italy. However, the structure of the Italian profession is decentralised, with the local bar associations (Consiglio dell’Ordini degli Avvocati) holding most of the regulatory powers. The Consiglio Nazionale Forense deals with disciplinary policy for the profession; it is responsible for the Code of Conduct and will hear appeals from disciplinary decisions of the local bar associations.\n\nThere are more than 165 Local Bar Associations in Italy which correspond to the number of court districts in the country. Each local bar deals with the admission, supervision, training and disciplining of its members as well as maintaining the register of avvocati. All avvocati must be registered with their local bar in order to practise in Italy.\n\nExercise of the profession of avvocato without being duly qualified and registered with the Local Bar Association is a criminal offence under Italian Law.\n\nKosovar law distinguishes between \"domestic lawyers,\" who must be citizens of Kosovo, and \"foreign lawyers,\" who have an active license in a recognized jurisdiction and are admitted to practice in Kosovo under certain conditions.\n\nDomestic lawyers must pass the bar exam. To sit for the bar exam, one must be a citizen of Kosovo, have a four-year bachelor in law or a master's in law, and complete a legal internship. The internship requirement is met after a one-year work as an trainee at the courts or a lawyer's office. Otherwise, the candidate should show two years of law-related experience with foreign or domestic organizations.\n\nForeign lawyers must have been licensed for at least five years in a U.S. or EU jurisdiction or in a country that permits Kosovo lawyers to practice under the same condition. They pass an abridged test administered by the Kosovo Bar and pay relatively higher fees than their domestic counterparts.\n\nMalta's legal practice is fused and legal practice is regulated by the Chamber of Advocates. Licence to practice law is granted by way of a warrant issued on completion of the Doctorate of Laws (LLD) programme from Malta University (or a comparable international programme) and an admission exam in English and Maltese. Lawyers holding rights to practice in other jurisdictions can apply for an exemption from local practice prohibitions allowing them to offer services under their foreign title though permission is issued by discretion and requires three years' local legal practice and a comparable licence elsewhere.\n\nMoldova requires an undergraduate law degree and passage of the state examination.\n\nIn the Netherlands, to be a licensed lawyer (\"Advocaat\"), one must complete an undergraduate law degree (Bacheloropleiding or LL.B, which is three years of study), the master of law degree (doctorandus in law before implementation of the Bologna Process and conferring the meester title, which is a one-year LL.M. program), and a three-year apprenticeship.\n\nLawyers (\"advokat\") have to be licensed in Norway, they are licensed by the authorities provided they have an LL.M (master of law)(before 2008- \"cand. jur.\"-- \"candidatus juris\"), and two years' practice as \"assisting lawyer\" (\"advokatfullmektig\") or two years' practice as a \"police prosecutor\" (\"politiadvokat\" or \"politifullmektig\") or \"deputy judge\" (\"dommerfullmektig\") and some minor formalities.\nWhilst the earlier cand. juris was normally a 6-year degree, the LL.M. is a 5-year degree.\nMembership of the bar association (\"Advokatforeningen\") is optional.\n\nIn Poland, a lawyer (\"adwokat\" or \"radca prawny\") must complete a magister's degree in law (which lasts five years) and be admitted to a bar association (The Polish Bar Council or National Chamber of Legal Advisors). There are several ways to gain admission to the bar, including: three years of training followed by the bar exam; five years of legal professional experience followed by the bar exam; a Ph.D. in law followed by either the bar exam or 3 years of legal professional experience; or possession of high academic qualifications in legal sciences (e.g., habilitated doctor or professor). Once admitted to the bar association of one occupation, a lawyer can move to another occupation with little hassle.\n\nIt is not necessary to have a license to practice law in Russia as a legal consultant, but only the members of the Russian bar associations (advocates) are permitted to appear in court on criminal matters. In Russia, an advocate must obtain an undergraduate degree in law (four years) and a Specialist in Law or Jurist degree (one year), then pass oral examinations.\n\nIn Spain, a lawyer uses the title of Abogado(male) or /Abogada(female), and must be a member of a local bar association, such as the bar association of Madrid. Membership requirements for all bar associations are the same. There are 3 requirements:\n1. An undergraduate course in Law. (4 Years).\n2. A Master's degree in \"Abogacía\". (3 Terms including internship).\n3. Pass an Examination.\n\nIn Sweden, membership in the bar association is required to use the title of advokat or lawyer, but not to practice law. Membership in the bar association requires an LL.M. degree (juristexamen, which lasts four and a half years); three years of legal work which must be in a law office (either an established firm or one's own firm), and the passing of an oral examination.\n\nIn Switzerland, lawyers must complete a Bachelor of Law (BLaw, which lasts 3 years), a Master of Law (MLaw, which lasts three terms), a one- to two-year apprenticeship (depending on the Canton), and pass the bar examination.\n\nThe United Kingdom comprises three distinct legal jurisdictions:\n\n\nAs such, admission to practice law requires different qualifications in each country of the UK.\n\nIn England and Wales, one does not have to be admitted to the bar to practice law, but qualifications are required to become a solicitor or barrister, both of whom are qualified lawyers and have special rights of audience in law courts. For both the solicitor and barrister professions, one must either obtain an undergraduate law degree (LL.B., which typically lasts three years), or complete the Common Professional Examination/Graduate Diploma in Law (which lasts one year after completing an undergraduate degree). Potential barristers must complete the Bar Professional Training Course (formerly Bar Vocational Course), followed by a year of vocational training known as a pupillage and be member of the four prestigious Inns of Court. Potential solicitors are required to complete the Legal Practice Course which lasts one year, then a two-year apprenticeship under a training contract, during which the trainee solicitor has to complete a Professional Skills Course. Chartered Legal Executives (formerly known as Fellows of CILEx) undertake a series of training courses and are required to pass qualifications relevant to the area of practice in which they intend to specialise. The first stage for the full vocational route to qualifying is called the CILEx Level 3 Professional Diploma in Law and Practice and is set at the equivalent to A-level law. The second and final qualifications are equivalent to an honours degree course - the CILEx Level 6 Diploma in Law and Practice. Trainees will often work at the same time as studying in order to acquire practical skills. The courses can be undertaken at a college, university or through an open learning programme. The courses are open to graduates and non-graduates. Chartered Legal Executives qualify after completing their CILEX training followed by a minimum of 3 years' qualifying employment. Chartered Legal Executives may do to a wide range of legal work although, like solicitors, they generally specialise in one area. After completing their academic training, trainee Legal Executives often occupy paralegal roles to satisfy the 3 year vocational stage of qualifying as Chartered Legal Executives.\nSolicitors Regulation Authority. Accessed February 18, 2009. Notes on Applications for Certificate of Exemption from the Common Professional Examination.\n\nIn Scotland, a lawyer normally studies for an LL.B. in Scots law; as an undergraduate first degree this takes three years for an ordinary degree or four years as an honours degree. The LL.B. can be taken as a graduate entry degree which takes two years. The process of admission to practice law then depends on whether a lawyer wishes to become a solicitor or an advocate.\n\nAdmission to practice as a solicitor is regulated by the Law Society of Scotland, with solicitors having to study for a one-year Diploma in Professional Legal Practice and then complete a traineeship in a law firm. Solicitors have rights of audience before the sheriff courts and justice of the peace courts.\n\nAdmission to practice as an advocate, having rights of audience before the Court of Session and the High Court of Justiciary, is regulated by the Faculty of Advocates. The Faculty of Advocates exercises this authority under the Act of Sederunt (Regulation of Advocates) 2011, which delegates the responsibility from the Court of Session. An Act of Sederunt is a form of subordinate legislation passed by the Court of Session, and the powers to regulate admission to practice as an advocate is set by Section 120 of the Legal Services (Scotland) Act 2010, which states:\nProspective advocates (called \"devils\" or \"intrants\") will complete a period of training in a solicitor's office, a period of devilling, and then must pass an assessment under the Faculty's Scheme of Assessment for Devils. The Faculty publishes detailed regulations as required by the Act of Sederunt, which lay out all of the requirements for prospective Advocates.\n\nIn U.S. English, admission to the bar is also commonly known as obtaining one's \"law license\" (\"licence\" in Canadian English).\n\nCanadian applicants to the bar must obtain admission (referred to as the \"call to the bar\") to one of the provincial or territorial Law Societies in the various jurisdictions of Canada. As an example, in order to sit for the bar exam, the Law Society of British Columbia requires that a student complete an undergraduate degree in any discipline (B.A. of four years), and an undergraduate law degree (LL.B. and/or B.C.L., three to four years) or Juris Doctor (three years). The applicant must complete an apprenticeship referred to as \"articling\" (nine to fifteen months depending on the jurisdiction and nature of the articling process).\n\nLawyers in Mexico are required to complete a law degree (Licenciado en Derecho, a five-year program), and obtain a practice certificate (cedula professional) from the Bureau of Professions of the Ministry of Education (Dirección General de Profesiones), which officially certifies the license by virtue of the law degree.\n\nRegulation of the legal profession is a power reserved to the states pursuant to the Tenth Amendment to the US Constitution. Each state, territory and the District of Columbia has its own rules. Unlike many other countries, US jurisdictions do not license legal practitioners as solicitors and barristers, but all licensed attorneys are qualified to practice as both.\n\nAll jurisdictions require applicants to pass a moral character evaluation and to pass an ethics examination, which some states administer as part of their bar examinations. Most require applicants to achieve a particular score on the Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination.\n\nAll jurisdictions except Wisconsin and New Hampshire require successful completion of a bar exam for admission. Diploma privilege is available in those states for graduates of certain law schools whose degree programmes meet certain requirements.\n\nEducational requirements vary but most states require a baccalaureate degree (with any major concentration, or in general studies), followed by a professional doctorate in law - specifically a Juris Doctor or Doctor of Jurisprudence degree from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association. Some states, such as New York, permit persons with an accredited foreign law degree of comparable duration to join the state bar so long as their education is in the common law. A very small number of states accept US law degrees from unaccredited law schools.\n\nAt least one state, California, requires no general degree and no law degree. It is technically possible to become an attorney in California by completing two years of college coursework, or the equivalent as demonstrated by examination and to meet the legal education requirement by studying law diligently in a lawyer's office or judge's chambers for not less than 864 hours over not less than four years. Hours spent as an employee of an attorney or judge do \"not\" count as \"study.\"\n\nA few other states also allow their legal education requirement to be met by study under supervision of an attorney or judge, excluding employment. Very few people pursue these options.\n\nIn Argentina, prospective lawyers must complete an undergraduate law degree (Abogado, which lasts five to six years depending on the university), and then become a member of one of the jurisdictional associations.\n\nBrazil requires an undergraduate law degree (Bacharel em Direito, which lasts five years) and the passing of the bar examination.\n\nChile requires a law degree (Licenciado en Ciencias Jurídicas: five years, and to approve a degree exam comprising all studied civil and procedural law that usually can takes one or two years more). It's required also a six-month apprenticeship to finally be able to oath in Supreme Court as a lawyer.\n\nLawyers (Abogados) in Peru must be members of a local bar association, which requires an undergraduate law degree (Bachiller en Derecho, a five-year program) and a diploma (Titulo de Abogado), the latter requiring one year of apprenticeship and passing of the bar exam.\n\nAdmission to practice in Anguilla is regulated by the Legal Profession Act 2016. To be admitted in Anguilla a person first needs to be admitted in either England & Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland, or have received a Certificate of Legal Education from the Council of Legal Education of the West Indies. Further the applicant needs to be either (a) a Belonger of Anguilla, (b) resident in Anguilla, or (c) a citizen of certain specified Caribbean countries.\n\nUnder the laws of the Bahamas, only a Bahamian national can normally be admitted as a lawyer. However, there is an exception for special admissions to allow senior barristers who have specialist expertise to be admitted to conduct a single case.\n\nA person may be admitted as a barrister or solicitor in the British Virgin Islands either by being admitted as a lawyer in the United Kingdom, or by attending one of the three regional law schools (Hugh Wooding Law School, Norman Manley Law School or Eugene Dupuch Law School). In 2015 the British Virgin Islands passed the Legal Profession Act 2015. Although the new admission rules under the Act have not yet been brought into force, once it does so graduates from regional law schools will still be eligible for admission but will have to undertake a period of one years' pupillage; and lawyers from the United Kingdom will only be eligible for admission if they have five years' post-qualification experience. The new regime will also allow senior foreign lawyers to be admitted temporarily just for a single case.\n\nA person may be admitted as an attorney-at-law in the Cayman Islands by one of three routes. A newly qualified person may qualify by either holding a bachelor of laws degree from the Cayman Islands Law School or an equivalent institution or a non-law degree together with the Common Professional Examination/Graduate Diploma in Law, and then completing the 9-month Professional Practise Course (\"PPC\"), followed by eighteen months as an articled clerk within a law firm. Under the Legal Practitioners (Students) Regulations (2012 Revision) only Caymanians or persons that hold Cayman Status or as otherwise approved by the Cayman Islands Cabinet may undertake the PPC. Lawyers who are already qualified to practice in the United Kingdom, Jamaica or another approved Commonwealth jurisdiction may be admitted under the Legal Practitioners Law (2015 Revision) provided that they are in good standing in their jurisdiction of admission and can demonstrate residence in the Cayman Islands for at least a year (usually by holding a valid work permit for that period of time). Lastly, lawyers who are admitted in another jurisdiction and who only wish to be temporarily admitted in the Cayman Islands for the purposes of appearing in a single case (usually Queen's Counsel from London) may be temporarily admitted. All attorneys are required to hold a current practicing certificate to practice law, but the Cayman Islands is slightly unusual that if an Attorney ceases to hold a practicing certificate for two years they are struck off the roll.\n\n"}
{"id": "23885186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23885186", "title": "African Identities", "text": "African Identities\n\nAfrican Identities is an academic journal that focuses primarily on subjects pertaining to African studies.\n"}
{"id": "11369014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11369014", "title": "Appalachian studies", "text": "Appalachian studies\n\nAppalachian studies is the area studies field concerned with the Appalachian region of the United States.\n\nSome of the first well-known Appalachian scholarship was done by Cratis D. Williams. His 1937 MA thesis in English from the University of Kentucky focused on 471 ballads and songs from eastern Kentucky and his 1961 PhD dissertation at New York University was called “The Southern Mountaineer in Fact and Fiction” with part of it appearing in \"The Appalachian Journal\" 1975-76 (Williams 1-2)\n\nBerea College president W.D. Weatherford received a Ford Foundation grant in 1957 to underwrite an exhaustive regional study, \"The Southern Appalachian Region: A Survey\", published in 1962, which many see as the beginning of the modern Appalachian studies movement (Blaustein 47-8).\n\nIn 1966, West Virginia University librarian Robert F. Munn noted that “more nonsense has been written about the Southern Mountains than any comparable area in the United States.” He also observed that there was “distressingly little in the way of useful primary and secondary materials” available for historical research on Appalachia” (Munn 1966).\n\nOver the four decades since Munn’s comments, a wealth of excellent Appalachian scholarship has been published. Appalachian Studies is interdisciplinary, as befits the study of a complex and diverse region and people. Appalachian Studies includes such disciplines as history, literature, anthropology, music, religion, economics, education, environment, folklore and folk customs, labor issues, women's issues, ethnicity, health care, community organizing, economic development, coal mining, tourism, art, demography, migration, and urban & rural planning. Appalachian scholarship has addressed – and continues to address – various issues within all of these academic disciplines.\n\nSeveral academic journals are dedicated to Appalachian Studies, including \"Appalachian Journal\", published by Appalachian State University, \"Journal of Appalachian Studies\", published by the Appalachian Studies Association, \"Now & Then\", published by East Tennessee State University, and \"Appalachian Heritage\", published by Berea College. For a larger list of pertinent Appalachian Studies journals and magazines, refer to Marie Tedesco’s Selected Bibliography on the Appalachian Studies Association website.\n\nMuch of the scholarship and research about Appalachia is done by scholars who are members of the Appalachian Studies Association.\n\nA number of colleges and universities in and around Appalachia offer courses and degrees in Appalachian Studies. These range from a Master of Arts in Appalachian Studies offered at Appalachian State University and East Tennessee State University, to undergraduate minors at a dozen schools. Many schools also have Appalachian Studies collections and archives in their libraries.\n\nThe following is a brief list of important books in the Appalachian Studies canon that would serve as a good introductory reading list. These titles were culled from a poll of members of the Steering Committee of the Appalachian Studies Association taken in the Spring of 2007.\n\nFor more detailed bibliographies, refer to the Bibliography section of the ASA website. For teachers who would like to incorporate Appalachian Studies content into their classroom, the ASA website includes a list of Appalachian Studies syllabi for college and university teachers, as well as a list of resources for K-12 teachers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1446987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1446987", "title": "Armband", "text": "Armband\n\nAn armband is a piece of material worn around the arm over the sleeve or other clothing if present. They may be worn for pure ornamentation to mark the wearer as belonging to group, having a certain rank or role, or being in a particular state or condition. Sprung armbands, known as sleeve garters, have been used by men to keep overlong sleeves from dropping over the hands and thereby interfering with their use. Armbands may also refer to inflatable armbands used to assist flotation for swimmers or for use with sphygmomanometers, in which case they are generally referred to as cuffs.\n\nBronze Age armbands have been found made from bronze (sometimes gilded) and jet. Some were constructed so that it would have been impossible to remove them.\n\nWhen used as part of a military uniform it is called a brassard. Uniforms serving other purposes such as to identify members of clubs, societies or teams may also have armbands for certain ranks or functions. An armband might identify a group leader, a team captain, or a person charged with controlling or organizing an event. \n\nPolice Departments in Asia use armbands for a \"traffic reflection armband\" or marking a type of unit.\n\nJournalists in Asia use an armband to mark themselves, similar to a press badge. \n\nArmbands are sometimes used to indicate political affiliations or to identify the wearer with an ideology or social movement.\n\nLarge corporations sponsor athletes and teams in an effort to get advertising when the athletes exhibit the corporate logo visibly. Armbands, headbands, handbands and wristbands are common forms of such advertising.\n\nThe phrase \"to wear your heart on your sleeve\", meaning to show your feelings, to display an emotional affiliation or conviction, is supposedly related to armbands. In medieval jousts, ladies of the court were said to tie a piece of cloth — a scarf or kerchief — around the arm of their favorite knight, who thus displayed his affection for the lady.\n\nArmbands are often used to hold a smartphone or a portable music player on a wearer's arm while doing activities such as lifting weights, running, etc. A hybrid type of armband and handband combination is now also widely used by runners.\n\nIn some cultures, a black armband signifies that the wearer is in mourning or wishes to identify with the commemoration of a family member, friend, comrade or team member who has died. This use is particularly common in the first meeting following the loss of a member. President Franklin D. Roosevelt wore a black armband mourning the recent death of his mother at the time he signed the declaration of war against Japan in December 1941. In association football, it is common for a team to wear black armbands in their next match after the death of a former player or manager. This may also be accompanied by a moment of silence at the start of the match.\n\nThe phrase \"black armband view of history\" was introduced to the Australian political lexicon by conservative historian Geoffrey Blainey in 1993 to describe views of history which, he believed, posited that \"much of Australian history had been a disgrace\" and which focused mainly on the treatment of minority groups, especially Aborigines. The term was used by Prime Minister John Howard, whose perspective on Australian history strongly contrasted with what he called the black armband view.\n\n"}
{"id": "34412877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34412877", "title": "Ataque de nervios", "text": "Ataque de nervios\n\nDespite comparisons to panic attack, investigators have identified ataque de nervios as a separate syndrome with measured differences in anxiety sensitivity and types of attacks.\n\nReported aspects of the syndrome include uncontrollable screaming or shouting, crying, trembling, sensations of heat rising in the chest and head, dissociative experiences, and verbal or physical aggression. The reaction is usually associated with a stressful event relating to the family, although it is not specifically defined as arising from such occurrences.\n\nAtaque de nervios was first mentioned in Puerto Rico by US military psychiatrists who observed a young Puerto Rican experiencing unusual illness.\n\n"}
{"id": "6054684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6054684", "title": "Benjamin Hudson", "text": "Benjamin Hudson\n\nBenjamin T. Hudson is an American medievalist based at Pennsylvania State University in State College, Pennsylvania. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree at Pennsylvania State University, received his Masters at University College, Dublin, and his D.Phil. at Worcester College, Oxford. He specializes in the history of Celtic-speaking peoples in the British Isles in the Early and High Middle Ages, and in the Norse-Gaelic Irish Sea region of the same period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "457058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457058", "title": "Coat of arms of the Bahamas", "text": "Coat of arms of the Bahamas\n\nThe Coat of Arms of the Bahamas contains a shield with the national symbols as its focal point.\n\nThe escutcheon (shield) is supported by a marlin and flamingo. The crest on top of the helm (helmet) is a conch shell, which represents the varied marine life of the island chain. Below the helm is the escutcheon itself, whose main charge is a ship, reputed to represent the \"Santa María\" of Christopher Columbus. It is sailing beneath a sun in the chief. The animals supporting the shield are the national animals, and the national motto is found at the bottom. The flamingo is located upon land, and the marlin upon sea, indicating the geography of the islands. \n\nThe vibrant tinctures of the coat of arms are also intended to point to a bright future for the islands. They are also reputed to have been maintained for their attractiveness to tourists.\n\nThe Coat of Arms was approved by Queen Elizabeth II on 7 December 1971. It was designed by Bahamian artist and clergyman, Dr. Hervis L. Bain, Jr., who is also a member of the Order of the British Empire.\n\nIn addition to the National Coat of Arms, there are a total of eighteen regional island shields (including two unofficial devices). These were granted upon Independence in 1973, to be displayed at the Independence day celebration to reflect each island's individual cultural heritage.\n\n"}
{"id": "19759799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19759799", "title": "Description", "text": "Description\n\nDescription is the pattern of narrative development that aims to make vivid a place, object, character, or group. Description is one of four rhetorical modes (also known as \"modes of discourse\"), along with exposition, argumentation, and narration. In practice it would be difficult to write literature that drew on just one of the four basic modes.\n\nFiction-writing also has modes: action, exposition, description, dialogue, summary, and transition. Author Peter Selgin refers to \"methods\", including action, dialogue, thoughts, summary, scenes, and description. Currently, there is no consensus within the writing community regarding the number and composition of fiction-writing modes and their uses.\n\nDescription is the fiction-writing mode for transmitting a mental image of the particulars of a story. Together with dialogue, narration, exposition, and summarization, description is one of the most widely recognized of the fiction-writing modes. As stated in \"Writing from A to Z\", edited by Kirk Polking, description is more than the amassing of details; it is bringing something to life by carefully choosing and arranging words and phrases to produce the desired effect. The most appropriate and effective techniques for presenting description are a matter of ongoing discussion among writers and writing coaches.\n\nA purple patch is an over-written passage in which the writer has strained too hard to achieve an impressive effect, by elaborate figures or other means. The phrase (Latin: \"purpureus pannus\") was first used by the Roman poet Horace in his \"Ars Poetica\" (c. 20 BC) to denote an irrelevant and excessively ornate passage; the sense of irrelevance is normally absent in modern usage, although such passages are usually incongruous. By extension, purple prose is lavishly figurative, rhythmic, or otherwise overwrought.\n\nIn philosophy, the nature of description has been an important question since Bertrand Russell's classical texts.\n\n"}
{"id": "3441472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3441472", "title": "Dieudonné M'bala M'bala", "text": "Dieudonné M'bala M'bala\n\nDieudonné M'bala M'bala (born 11 February 1966), generally known by his stage name Dieudonné (), is a French comedian, actor and political activist. His father is from Cameroon, his mother from France. He has been accused of and convicted for hate speech, advocating terrorism and slander in Belgium and in France.\n\nDieudonné initially achieved success working with comedian Élie Semoun, humorously exploiting racial stereotypes. He campaigned against racism and was a candidate in the 1997 and 2001 legislative elections in Dreux against the National Front, the French far-right political party that he perceived as racist. On 1 December 2003, Dieudonné performed a sketch on a TV show about an Israeli settler whom he depicted as a Nazi. Some critics argued that he had \"crossed the limits of antisemitism\" and several organizations sued him for incitement to racial hatred. Dieudonné refused to apologize and denounced Zionism and the \"Jewish lobby\".\n\nDieudonné approached Jean-Marie Le Pen, leader of the National Front political party that he had fought earlier, and the men became political allies and friends. Holocaust denier Robert Faurisson appeared in one of his shows in 2008. Dieudonné described Holocaust remembrance as \"memorial pornography\". Dieudonné has been convicted in court eight times on antisemitism charges. Dieudonné subsequently found himself with increasing frequency banned from mainstream media, and many of his shows were cancelled by local authorities. Active on the internet and in his Paris theater, Dieudonné has continued to have a following. His quenelle signature gesture became notorious in 2013, particularly after footballer Nicolas Anelka used the gesture during a match in December 2013. Alexander Stille, writing for \"The New Yorker\", characterized his recent appearances and videos as \"unfunny\", \"tasteless\" rants in which the \"Jewish lobby\" and \"Israel lobby\" are characterized as controlling world affairs.\n\nAfter Dieudonné was recorded during a performance mocking a Jewish journalist, suggesting it was a pity that he was not sent to the gas chambers, Interior Minister Manuel Valls stated that Dieudonné was \"no longer a comedian\" but was rather an \"anti-Semite and racist\" and that he would seek to ban all Dieudonné's public gatherings as a public safety risk. His shows were banned and Aurélie Filippetti even spoke about an effort to get Daily Motion and YouTube to take his videos offline. Dieudonné changed the name of his show (to Asu Zoa) and was packing the house a few months later. On 20 January 2017, the Court of Appeals of Liège confirmed a first instance sentence of two months of jail time and a 9.000 euros fine for Dieudonné's anti-Semitic remarks in a performance on Herstal in 14 March 2012.\n\nDieudonné has also been known to associate with Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President of Iran from 2005 to 2013, who has himself been accused of describing the Holocaust as a myth. On 25 February 2015, Ahmadinejad tweeted \"Visiting an old friend, a great artist.\" The tweet included photographs of himself and Dieudonné, arms around each other, smiling. The two also met in 2009 during a visit by Dieudonné to the Islamic Republic of Iran where they reportedly discussed their shared anti-Zionist views.\n\nDieudonné M'bala M'bala was born in Fontenay-aux-Roses, Hauts-de-Seine, France. He is the son of a retired sociologist from Brittany, who is also a painter and exhibits under the name Josiane Grué, and an accountant from Ekoudendi, Cameroon.<ref name=\"NYT2012/06/24\"></ref> His parents divorced when he was one year old, and he was brought up by his mother. He attended Catholic school, though his mother was a New Age Buddhist. Dieudonné lives with Noémie Montagne, his producer, and has five children with her.\n\nAfter getting his baccalaureate in computer science, Dieudonné began writing and practicing routines with his childhood friend, Jewish comedian and actor Élie Semoun. They formed a comedic duo, Élie et Dieudonné (Élie and Dieudonné), and performed in local cafés and bars while Dieudonné worked as a salesman, selling cars, telephones, and photocopy machines. In 1992, a Paris comedian spotted them and helped them stage their first professional show. In the 1990s, they appeared on stage and on television together as \"Élie et Dieudonné\". In 1997 they split and each went on to a solo theater career. In 1998, they reunited in a screen comedy, \"Le Clone\", which was a failure critically and financially. From the mid-1990s Dieudonné appeared in several French film comedies, primarily in supporting roles. His most successful screen appearance to date was in Alain Chabat's box-office hit \"\" in 2002; in 2004 he appeared in Maurice Barthélémy's box office bomb \"Casablanca Driver\".\nDieudonné's successful one-man shows include \"Pardon Judas\" (2000), \"Le divorce de Patrick\" (2003), and \"1905\" (2005). Other one-man shows were \"Mes Excuses\" (2004), \"Dépôt de bilan\" (2006) and \"J'ai fait l'con\" (2008), all understood as attacks on political and social opponents and defences of his own positions. Anti-Semitic statements made within and around these productions led to intense controversy and numerous lawsuits. Following the 2005 civil unrest in France, Dieudonné also penned a play called \"Émeutes en banlieue\" (Riots in the Suburbs, February 2006). In 2009, surrounded by scandals (see below, \"Political activities\"), Dieudonné launched two one-man shows: \"Liberté d’expression\" (\"Freedom of expression\") and \"Sandrine\". While the latter was a follow-up to \"Le divorce de Patrick\", the former was conceived as a series of itinerant \"conferences\" on \"free speech\". Started on 18 June 2010 in his theater, Dieudonné's most recent show to date, \"Mahmoud\" (standing for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad) has an openly antisemitic tone, caricaturing Jews, slavery and \"official\" versions of history.\n\nDieudonné's production company first acted under the name Bonnie Productions and now under the name Les productions de la Plume.\n\nIn 2012, Dieudonné made his directorial debut in a film called \"L’Antisémite\" (\"The Anti-Semite\"), in which he starred as a violent and alcoholic character who dresses as a Nazi officer at a party, and also features the Holocaust denier Robert Faurisson, as well as imagery that mocks Auschwitz concentration camp prisoners. The movie, which was produced by the Iranian Documentary and Experimental Film Center, is also known by the title \"Yahod Setiz\". Its scheduled screening at the Cannes Film Festival's Marché du Film (the parallel film market event) was canceled. The film is to be commercialized on the internet and sold to subscribers of Dieudonné's activities.\n\nDieudonné is the lessee of the \"Théâtre de la Main d'Or\" in the 11th arrondissement of Paris, which is used for both stand-up comedy and political events by himself and friends.\n\nDieudonné was initially active on the anti-racist left. In the 1997 French legislative election, he worked with his party, \"Les Utopistes\", in Dreux against National Front candidate Marie-France Stirbois and received 8 percent of the vote. Verbally and in demonstrations, he also supported migrants without a residence permit (the so-called \"sans papiers\") and the Palestinians.\n\nSince 2002, Dieudonné has attracted attention by making increasingly polemical statements. In an interview for the magazine \"Lyon Capitale\" in January 2002, he described \"the Jews\" as \"a sect, a fraud, which is the worst of all, because it was the first\" and said he preferred \"the charisma of bin Laden to that of Bush\". He subsequently tried to run for president in the 2002 presidential election, but failed to get in the race.\n\nOn 1 December 2003, he appeared live on a television show disguised as a parody of an Israeli settler wearing military fatigues and a Haredi (Orthodox) Jewish hat. The sketch climaxed with a Hitler salute, after which Dieudonné shouts out a word. According to Dieudonné, he shouted \"Israël\" in the persona of the Haredi. In the following days, some news agencies stated that he shouted \"Isra – Heil\" or \"Heil Israel\". He was cleared of charges of antisemitism in a Paris court after the judge said this was not an attack against Jews in general but against a type of person \"distinguished by their political views\". At the 2004 European Parliament election, Dieudonné was candidate for the extreme left-wing party \"Euro-Palestine\", but left a few months after the election because of disagreements with its leaders.\n\nDieudonné is the director of the Les Ogres website, where he makes plain his denial of the official version of the 9/11 events.\nFollowing this television appearance, a Dieudonné show in Lyon (at La Bourse du Travail) on 5 February 2004 was picketed and a bottle containing a corrosive product was thrown in the venue, injuring a spectator. On 11 November, Dieudonné organized a debate with four rabbis of Naturei Karta in the Théâtre de la Main d'Or in Paris.\n\nOn 16 February 2005, he declared during a press conference in Algiers that the Central Council of French Jews CRIF (\"Conseil représentatif des institutions juives de France\") was a \"mafia\" that had \"total control over French policy exercise\", called the commemoration of the Holocaust \"memorial pornography\" (\"pornographie mémorielle\"), and claimed that the \"Zionists of the Centre National de la Cinématographie,\" which \"control French cinema\" prevented him from making a film about the slave trade. Dieudonné was also trying to appear as a spokesman for French blacks, but, after some initial sympathy, notably from the novelist Calixthe Beyala, the journalists Antoine Garnier and Claudy Siar, as well as the founding members of the \"Conseil représentatif des associations noires\" (CRAN), he increasingly met with their rejection.\n\nThroughout 2005 and 2006, Dieudonné was often in the company of senior National Front members Bruno Gollnisch, Frédéric Chatillon, and Marc George (also known as Marc Robert), the man who went on to conduct his electoral campaigns in 2007 and 2009. Dieudonné also frequently appeared together with the conspiracy theorist Thierry Meyssan and the former Marxist and current right-wing radical Alain Soral, a confidant of Marine and Jean-Marie Le Pen. Under the influence of Soral's writings and polemics, Dieudonné was acquainted with his militant antisemitism of French nationalist inspiration. In May 2006, he gave a lengthy interview to the far-right monthly \"Le Choc du mois\". Demonstrating shoulder to shoulder with Islamists, he also traveled at the end of August 2006 with Châtillon, Meyssan and Soral in Lebanon, to meet MPs and fighters of the Hezbollah. Some Jews reacted angrily to his comments on this tour. In April 2005, Dieudonné went to Auschwitz. In May 2006 he was involved in a fight with two teenage Jews in Paris, one of whom he sprayed with tear gas. Dieudonné claimed that the teenagers attacked him first; both parties pressed charges, but the lawsuits were not pursued. In France and abroad, Dieudonné became increasingly perceived as an extremist of a type until then uncommon in Europe: in the introduction to a March 2006 interview, \"The Sunday Independent\" of South Africa called him a \"French Louis Farrakhan... obsessed with Jews\".\n\nDieudonné wanted to finally represent politically these ever-radicalized positions in the 2007 presidential election, but for logistical reasons he could not maintain his candidacy, which was organized by Marc Robert (a.k.a. Marc George). The convicted Holocaust denier Serge Thion wrote for his campaign web site under the pseudonym \"Serge Noith\", as did also the longtime secretary of the Holocaust denier Roger Garaudy, Maria Poumier. After the end of his candidacy, Dieudonné appeared several times publicly in the company of Jean-Marie Le Pen and traveled to Cameroon with Le Pen's wife Jany. However, officially, Dieudonné called for the election of anti-globalization militant José Bové, despite Bové's asking Dieudonné not to do so.\n\nIn July 2008, Jean-Marie Le Pen became godfather to Dieudonné's third child. Philippe Laguérie, a traditionalist Catholic priest, officiated at the baptism, which was held in the Saint-Éloi congregation in Bordeaux.\n\nOn 26 December 2008, at an event at the Parc de la Villette in Paris, Dieudonné awarded the Holocaust denier Robert Faurisson an \"insolent outcast\" prize [\"prix de l'infréquentabilité et de l'insolence\"]. The award was presented by one of Dieudonné's assistants, Jacky, dressed in a concentration camp uniform with a yellow badge. This caused a scandal and earned him his sixth court conviction to date. On 29 January 2009, he celebrated the 80th birthday of Faurisson in his theater, in the midst of a representative gathering of Holocaust deniers, right-wing radicals, and radical Shiites. Dieudonné and Faurisson further appeared together in a video making fun of the Holocaust and its commemoration.\n\nOn 21 March 2009, Dieudonné announced that he would run for the 2009 European Parliament election in the Île-de-France at the head of an \"anti-communitarist and anti-Zionist\" party. Other candidates on his party's electoral list were Alain Soral and the Holocaust denier and former member of Les Verts (the French Green Party) Ginette Skandrani (also known as Ginette Hess), while Thierry Meyssan and Afrocentrist Kémi Seba, founder of the \"Tribu Ka\" are members of the party but do not run. The campaign would be conducted again by Marc George. In spite of the association of Dieudonné's party with the Shiite \"Centre Zahra\", whose president Yahia Gouasmi also runs on his list, his candidacy was supported by Fernand Le Rachinel, a former high ranking executive of the National Front and official printer of the party. In early May 2009, the French government studied the possibility of banning the party, but on 24 May, Justice minister Rachida Dati found there was no legal ground to do so. The \"Parti antisioniste\" finally scored 1.30% of the votes.\n\nOn 9 May 2012, Police in Brussels, Belgium, stopped Dieudonné mid-performance after determining that his performance contravened local laws, and forced the cancellation of two more shows, but in November 2013, a Brussels justice found that the comedian was not using anti-Semitic slurs or inciting racial hatred during the show that was interrupted in May 2012. On 21 June, Dieudonné complained against the Brussels police. On 12 May 2012, event producer Evenko forced the cancellation of Dieudonné's shows in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, on 14, 15, 16, and 17 May, citing \"contractual conflicts\". In late May 2012, a screening of Dieudonné's directorial debut, \"L’Antisémite\" (\"The Anti-Semite\"), was canceled at the Marché du Film, the market held at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nDieudonné released a song and dance called \"Shoananas\", performed to the tune of the 1985 children's video and song by Annie Cordy \"Cho Ka Ka O\" (Chaud Cacao or Hot Chocolate in English), which itself by today's standards might be considered racist. The term \"Shoananas\" is a portmanteau of Shoah, the French and Hebrew word used to refer to the Holocaust, and ananas, the French word for pineapple.\n\nDieudonné started a trend among his supporters of getting photographed making a unique gesture he invented and dubbed the \"quenelle\". For some it is just a vulgar gesture of opposition to French institutions, for others it is an antisemitic gesture and was dubbed a \"reverse Nazi salute\" because while a Nazi salute involves an upraised straight arm, the quenelle involves a straight arm pointed at the ground.\n\nIn December, while performing onstage, Dieudonné was recorded saying about prominent French Jewish radio journalist Patrick Cohen: \"Me, you see, when I hear Patrick Cohen speak, I think to myself: ‘Gas chambers... too bad.\"’\"\n\nRadio France, Cohen’s employer, announced on 20 December that it had alerted authorities that Dieudonné had engaged in \"openly anti-Semitic speech\", and various French anti-racism watchdog groups filed complaints.\n\nFrench Interior Minister Manuel Valls announced he would try to legally ban public performances by Dieudonné. Valls stated that Dieudonne was \"no longer a comedian\" but was rather an \"anti-Semite and racist\" who has run afoul of France's laws against incitement to racial hatred.\n\n\"Despite a conviction for public defamation, hate speech and racial discrimination, Dieudonné M’Bala M’Bala no longer seems to recognize any limits,\" Valls wrote.\n\n\"Consequently, the interior minister has decided to thoroughly examine all legal options that would allow a ban on Dieudonné’s public gatherings, which no longer belong to the artistic domain, but rather amount to a public safety risk.\"\n\nOn 31 December, Dieudonné released a 15-minute video proposing that \"2014 will be the year of the quenelle!\". In it, Dieudonné attacks \"bankers\" and \"slavers\", so as not to say \"Jews\" and end up in a lawsuit, and calls upon his followers, \"quenelleurs\"—those who listen and follow him—towards a hatred of Jews.\n\n\"Antisemite? I'm not of that opinion,\" he says in the video. \"I'm not saying I'd never be one... I leave myself open to that possibility, but for the moment, no.\" Later, he added, \"I don't have to choose between the Jews and the Nazis.\"\n\nOn 6 January, France's interior minister Manuel Valls said that performances considered anti-Semitic may be banned by local officials. In support of this, Valls sent a 3-page memo to all prefects of Police in France on 6 January entitled, \"The Struggle Against Racism and Antisemitism—demonstrations and public reaction—performances by Mr. Dieudonné M’Bala M’Bala \". With respect to freedom of speech in France and banning scheduled performances ahead of time, Valls wrote:\n\"The struggle against racism and antisemitism is an essential concern of government and demands vigorous action.\" He takes note of the liberty of expression in France, but goes on to say that in exceptional circumstances, the police are invested with the power to prohibit an event if its intent is to prevent \"a grave disturbance of public order\" and cites the 1933 law supporting this.\n\nWithin hours, Bordeaux became the first French city to ban Dieudonné when mayor Alain Juppé canceled a local appearance planned as part of a scheduled national tour, followed closely by Nantes, Tours, Orleans, Toulouse, Limoges, and Biarritz. The show in Switzerland will go on as scheduled, while other cities are still studying the situation. The Paris Prefect of Police on 10 January prohibited Dieudonné from staging his next three upcoming shows at his Paris theatre.\n\nSome officials from both sides of the political spectrum have reservations about the legal validity of the Valls circular, and believe that cancellations could leave their cities liable for judgments of millions of euros in damages to Dieudonné if he sues and wins, as actually occurred in La Rochelle in 2012.\n\nAccording to a poll by IFOP for Metronews taken on 8–9 January 2014, 71% of the French population had a negative image of Dieudonné while 16% held a positive view. The voters of the National Front were the least negative, with 54% seeing him negatively and 32% positively.\n\nOn 11 January 2014, he announced he would not perform his show \"Le Mur\" but will replace it with another one, \"Asus Zoa\", that he wrote in three nights and that would talk about \"dance and music inspired by ancestral myths\".\n\nIn February, Dieudonné was banned from entry in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn September, French authorities opened an investigation into Dieudonné on grounds that he condoned terrorism after mocking and showing footage of the killing of U.S. journalist James Foley. He described it as \"access to civilisation\", comparing it to many colonial crimes in Africa, which included killing and dismembering of victims and which were for decades justified by \"civilizing Africa\".\n\nOn 10 January 2015, following the \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting, the Porte de Vincennes siege of a kosher supermarket, and the 1,500,000-strong \"march against hatred\" in Paris, Dieudonné wrote on Facebook \"As far as I am concerned, I feel I am Charlie Coulibaly.\" In this way he mixed the popular slogan \"Je suis Charlie\", used to support the journalists killed at the \"Charlie Hebdo\" magazine, with a reference to Amedy Coulibaly who was responsible for the hostage-taking at the kosher supermarket which included the killing of four Jews.\n\nLikening his treatment to that of \"Public Enemy No. 1,\" on January 11 Dieudonné complained about it in an open letter to the Minister of the Interior, Bernard Cazeneuve.\n\nOn 13 January, Dieudonné was arrested in Paris, accused of publicly supporting terrorism, based on his earlier Facebook comments where he appeared to support the kosher supermarket gunman Amedy Coulibaly. Dieudonné's arrest over his \"Je suis Charlie Coulibaly\" comments sparked discussion over a perceived hypocrisy concerning freedom of speech, contrasting his bans and arrest, with the freedom for \"Charlie Hebdo\" to publish controversial cartoons of Muhammad.\n\nThe quenelle, invented by Dieudonné, is a gesture consisting of a downward straight arm touched at the shoulder by the opposite hand. In French, \"quenelle\" normally refers to a type of dumpling. Images of the quenelle became viral in 2013, with many individuals posing while performing the quenelle in photos posted to the internet. Dieudonné claims that the gesture is an anti-establishment protest. The gesture has also been described as a reverse Nazi salute. Officially, French authorities have said the gesture is too vague to take any action against Dieudonné. In December 2013, the French Minister for Sport Valérie Fourneyron publicly criticised the footballer Nicolas Anelka for using the gesture as a goal celebration in an English Premier League match. French international and NBA basketball player Tony Parker also came under fire during the same time period for his use of the gesture. On 30 December 2013, Parker apologized for making the gesture, saying that the photograph had been taken three years earlier and that he had been unaware at the time that it had any anti-Semitic connotation. An official January 2014 circular issued by Interior Minister Manuel Valls besides laying out a legal justification for banning antisemitic performances by Dieudonné also specifically linked the quenelle gesture to anti-Semitism and extremism.\n\n\nAccording to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's report by Benjamin Shingler, dated 11. May 2016, Dieudonné M'bala M'bala was refused entry at the Montréal–Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport by Canada Border Services Agency on the grounds of prior criminal convictions and forced to return home. He had been previously scheduled to perform 10 shows in Montreal starting Wednesday night, 11. May 2016.\n\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\n\n"}
{"id": "38332364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38332364", "title": "Doddahundi nishidhi inscription", "text": "Doddahundi nishidhi inscription\n\nThe Doddahundi nishidhi and inscription is a hero stone from Doddahundi, 18 km from Tirumakudalu Narasipura in the Mysore district, Karnataka state, India. It has an undated old Kannada language inscription which historians J. F. Fleet, I. K. Sarma and E.P. Rice have dated by context to 840 or 869 C.E. The hero stone has a unique depiction in frieze of the ritual death (\"sallekhana\" and \"samadhi\") of the Western Ganga Dynasty king Ereganga Nitimarga I (r. 853-869). The memorial was raised by the king's son Satyavakya. Such \"nishidhi's\" (memorial spot) were raised in medieval India in honor of important Jain personalities who ended their life voluntarily after following severe ritual vow. The Western Ganga period produced not only imposing and well sculptured pillars (\"stambha\") but also noteworthy hero stones (\"virgal\") with exceptional relief. According to historian and epigraphist J. F. Fleet who edited the inscription, the names in the record are titles and not personal names. He dated the inscription to 840 C.E. with the opinion that the Nitimarga in the inscription is actually Ranavikrama, son of King Sripurusha (r. 726-788).\n\nIn Jainism, the term \"nishidhi\" (with variants called \"nisidhia\", \"nisadhi\" or \"nistige\") is the spot where the person, such as an ascetic, king or queen died voluntarily, or was cremated or bone relic buried. Such places were held in high regard, a pedestal (\"vedika\") created and prayers (\"puja\" and \"pratishtha\") offered regularly. Often, the \"nishidhigal\" (\"lit\", \"nishidhi\" stone) was nothing more than a natural rock surface or a boulder. Inscribed on the \"nishidhigal\" were epitaphs that immortalized and described the scholarly and saintly achievements of the deceased one, man or woman. \"Nishidhi's\" dated to as early as the 7th century exist in the Shravanabelagola hills. One memorial raised by King Sripurusha for Mahaprabhu Gopayya dates from the 8th century. The Doddahundi \"nishidhi\" is one of the most noteworthy examples found from the Western Ganga period.\n\nAccording to the historian Sarma, the Doddahundi \"nishidhi\" stone has its frieze set inside a square panel whose borders are etched to create the impression of flames that further accentuate the grave event. The dying king, who exudes a calm countanence, is lying on a couch with his head on a double pillow and is attended to by his personal guard Agarayya. An agitated Prince Satyavakya stands behind the king with a dagger and sword. The inscription below the frieze reads \"bee at the pair of lotus feet of Arhat Bhattaraka\" (referring to Jinasena, the kings guru and author of the Jain text \"Adipurana\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "206611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206611", "title": "Dolwyddelan Castle", "text": "Dolwyddelan Castle\n\nDolwyddelan Castle () is a Welsh castle located near Dolwyddelan in Conwy County Borough in North Wales. It is thought to have been built in the early 13th century by Llywelyn the Great, Prince of Gwynedd and Wales. Though the castle was then only one tower with two floors, a second tower was built in the late 13th century and a third floor was added to the first during the late 15th century repairs.\n\nThe castle was built, using mostly local grit and slate rubble, as one of the Snowdonian strongholds of the princes of Gwynedd. Though there are no records of the exact construction date, it is thought that a single rectangular tower, with two floors, was built in the early 13th century. The first floor would have consisted of a main chamber with a fireplace, with a trapdoor for entrance to the basement, and the main keep's doorway would have been covered by a porch or forebuilding.\n\nThe second two-storey tower was added by Edward I during the repairs in 1283–84 and linked by an irregular curtain wall with a courtyard in the centre, with further work undertaken in 1290–92. This second tower contained a fireplace on the top floor reached by internal stairs. A third storey was added to the main keep in the late 15th century, resulting in it then reaching a height of . The castle was heavily restored between 1848 and 1850 by Baron Willoughby de Eresby during which time the battlements were added.\n\nThe Welsh castle, built in the early 13th century, functioned as a guard post along a main route through North Wales. It was reputed to be the birthplace of Llywelyn the Great, though it is now thought that he was born at Tomen Castell, a small tower that previously stood on a nearby hill, and that he built Dolwyddelan Castle. On 18 January 1283 it was captured by Edward I of England's forces during the final stages of his conquest of Wales. Some historians have suggested that there may have been a deal between the defenders of the castle and Edward I in which its surrender was negotiated. The castle was then modified and strengthened until at least 1286 for occupation by an English garrison with recorded repairs including carpentry, the bridge, and the water mill.\n\nEdwardian troops maintained a military presence here until 1290. As the long-term strategy of control in Wales began to rely on military and administrative centres accessible by sea, the inland castles became obsolete.\n\nIn the 15th century, the upper storey and drainage system were added to the keep by local lord Maredudd ap Ieuan who acquired the lease in 1488. It was restored and partly re-modelled in the 19th century by Lord Willoughby de Eresby, who added the distinctive battlements. It was reported that in around 1810 one of the towers may have collapsed.\n\nIn 1930 the building was placed under the guardianship of the Ministry of Works. The castle is now under the protection of Cadw, which is part of the Welsh Assembly's historic environment division.\n\nIn 1980 the location was used for all the outdoor shots of Ulrich's castle during the making of the film \"Dragonslayer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13624574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13624574", "title": "Electoral reform in the United States", "text": "Electoral reform in the United States\n\nElectoral reform in the United States refers to efforts to change American elections and the electoral system used in the United States.\n\nMost elections in the U.S. select one person; elections with multiple candidates selected by proportional representation are relatively rare. Typical examples include the U.S. House of Representatives, whose members are elected by a plurality of votes in single-member districts. The number of representatives from each state is set in proportion to each state's population in the most recent decennial census. District boundaries are usually redrawn after each such census. This process often produces \"gerrymandered\" district boundaries designed to increase and secure the majority of the party in power, sometimes by offering secure seats to members of the opposition party. This is one of a number of institutional features that increase the advantage of incumbents seeking reelection. The United States Senate and the U.S. President are also elected by plurality. However, these elections are not affected by gerrymandering (with the possible exception of presidential races in Maine and Nebraska, whose electoral votes are partially allocated by Congressional district.)\n\nProposals for electoral reform have included overturning the United States Supreme Court's decision in \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\", public and citizen funding of elections, limits and transparency in funding, Instant Runoff Voting (IRV), abolishing the U.S. Electoral College or nullifying its impact through the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact, and improving ballot access for third parties, among others. The U.S. Constitution gives states wide latitude to determine how elections are conducted, although some details, such as the ban on poll taxes, are mandated at the federal level.\n\nThe cost of getting elected, especially to any national office in the US, has been growing. The Federal Elections Commission estimated that \"candidates, parties, PACs, super-PACs, and politically active nonprofits\" spent a total of $7 billion in 2012. The magazine \"Mother Jones\" said that this money was used \"to influence races up and down the ballot\", noting further that the cost of elections has continued to escalate. The 2010 congressional elections cost roughly $4 billion.\n\nSpending averages just under $3 billion per year for the 4-year presidential election cycle.\n\nThis is small relative to what the major campaign contributors, crony capitalists (whether allegedly \"liberal\" or \"conservative\"), receive for their money. The Cato Institute found corporate welfare totaling $100 billion in the 2012 U.S. federal budget. This includes only direct subsidies specifically identified in the Cato Institute research. It does not include indirect subsidies like tax breaks, trade barriers, distorting copyright law beyond the \"limited time\" and other restrictions mentioned in the U.S. Constitution, and other distortions of U.S. foreign and defense policies to benefit major corporations and people with substantial financial interests outside the U.S.\n\nOther studies have estimated between $6 and $220 return for each $1 invested by major corporations and ultra-wealthy individuals in lobbying and political campaigns.\n\nThis rate of return helps escalate the cost of elections. To obtain the money needed for their next election campaign, incumbent politicians spend a substantial portion of their time soliciting money from large donors, who often donate to competing candidates, thereby buying access with the one that wins.\n\nThis $3 billion per year is about $10 for each of the 316 million people in the US, $23 for each of the 130 million people who voted in 2012.\n\nJosh Silver's \"Cure for political corruption\" divides electoral reforms between campaign finance, lobbying and election administration.\n\nMost of the proposed reforms can be achieved at least in part by legislation, though some require amending the U.S. Constitution. The Supreme Court ruling in Citizens United and related decisions would require a constitutional amendment to permanently change, and several have been proposed. Similarly, some proposed systems for campaign finance and / or restrictions on campaign contributions have been declared unconstitutional; implementation of those changes could require a constitutional amendment.\n\nHowever, many other reforms can seemingly be achieved without a constitutional amendment. These include various forms of public financing of political campaigns, disclosure requirements and instant-runoff voting. The American Anti-Corruption Act (AACA) is one collection of reforms that appear to be consistent with existing US Supreme Court rulings, developed by Republican Trevor Potter, who had previously served as head of the US Federal Elections Commission under Democratic President Bill Clinton. Local versions of the AACA are being promoted by Represent.Us.\n\nThe Citizens United decision, January 21, 2010, of the U.S. Supreme Court has received substantial notoriety, pushing many people to work for a constitutional amendment to overturn it. Key provisions of that decision assert in essence that money is speech and subject to first amendment protections. Move to Amend began organizing to oppose that decision in September 2009. By June 2013, they had at least 164 local affiliates in 36 states plus the District of Columbia. They had obtained roughly 300,000 individual signatures for their Motion to Amend and had secured the passage of 367 local resolutions and ordinances. \"United for the People\" is consortium of some 144 organizations supporting a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United. The web site of \"United for the People\" lists 17 constitutional amendments introduced in the 112th United States Congress and 12 introduced by March 13, 2013, in the 113th proposing to overturn Citizens United in different ways.\n\nThe libertarian think-tank the Cato Institute is concerned that most proposed responses to Citizens United will give \"Congress unchecked new power over spending on political speech, power that will be certainly abused.\"\n\nLawrence Lessig said, \"On January 20, 2010, the day before Citizens United was decided, our democracy was already broken. Citizens United may have shot the body, but the body was already cold. And any response to Citizens United must also respond to that more fundamental corruption. We must find a way to restore a government 'dependent upon the People alone,' so that we give 'the People' a reason again to have confidence in their government.\"\n\nLessig favors systems that share as broadly as possible the decisions about which candidates or initiatives get the funding needed to get their message to the voters. Following Bruce Ackerman, Lessig recommends giving each eligible voter a \"Democracy voucher\" worth, e.g., $100 each election year that can only be spent on political candidates or issues. The amount would be fixed at roughly double the amount of private money spent in the previous election cycle. Unlike the current Presidential election campaign fund checkoff, the decisions regarding who gets that money would be made by individual citizens.\n\nLessig also supports systems to provide tax rebates for such contributions or to match small dollar contributions such as the system in New York City that provides a 5-to-1 match for contributions up to $250. To be eligible for money from vouchers, rebates or matching funds, candidates must accept certain limits on the amounts of money raised from individual contributors.\n\nVouchers, tax rebates, and small dollar matching are called \"citizen funding\" as opposed to more traditional \"public funding\", which tasks a public agency with deciding how much money each candidate receives from the government. While the Supreme Court of the United States has already struck down many forms of public funding of political campaigns, there are forms of public and especially citizen financing that seem consistent with the constitution as so far interpreted by the courts and could therefore be secured by standard legislative processes not requiring amending the constitution.\n\nOne bill that proposes such a system for U.S. congressional elections is \"The Grassroots Democracy Act\". It was introduced 14, 2012, by U.S. Representative John Sarbanes as H.R. 6426 and reintroduced on Jan 15, 2013 as H. R. 268.\n\nTerms like \"Clean elections\" and \"Clean money\" are sometimes used inconsistently. Clean elections typically refers to systems where candidates receive a fixed sum of money from the government to run their campaigns after qualifying by collecting small dollar contributions (e.g., $5) from a large enough group of citizens. Systems of this nature have been tried in Maine, Arizona, North Carolina, New Mexico, Vermont, Wisconsin, Massachusetts, Connecticut and elsewhere; some of these have been disqualified at least in part by the courts.\n\n\"Clean money\" is sometimes used as a synonym for clean elections; at other times, it refers to a DISCLOSE Act, requiring disclosure of the sources of campaign funds. The DISCLOSE Act bill in the U.S. Congress seeks \"to prohibit foreign influence in Federal elections, to prohibit government contractors from making expenditures with respect to such elections, and to establish additional disclosure requirements with respect to spending in such elections, and for other purposes.\"\n\nThe California Clean Money Campaign is pushing the \"California\" DISCLOSE act, which differs substantially from the federal DISCLOSE Act. The California bill would strengthen disclosure requirements for political advertisements. Among other provisions, it requires the top three contributors for any political ad to be identified by name on the ad.\n\nAckerman and Ayres propose a \"secret donation booth\", the exact opposite of full disclosure. This system would require that all campaign contributions be anonymously given through a government agency. Their system would give donors a few days to change their minds and withdraw or change the recipient of a donation; it would also add a random time delay to ensure that the recipients of donations could never know for sure the source of the funds they receive.\n\nApproval voting is a non-rank-order but graded system in which voters may select all candidates that meet with the voter's approval. The candidate with the highest approval score (i.e. approved by the most voters) wins the election. In elections with three or more candidates, voters may indicate approval of more than one candidate.\n\nIn 2017, the Colorado legislature considered approval voting. If the bill had passed, Colorado would have been the first state to approve approval voting legislation, but the bill was postponed indefinitely.\n\nIn 2018, Fargo, North Dakota passed a local ballot initiative adopting approval voting for city's local elections, becoming the first United States city and jurisdiction to adopt approval voting.\n\nMany jurisdictions around the world use a system called Instant-runoff voting (IRV) or ranked choice voting. Each voter would rank all (or at least some) of the available options. If one option is ranked first by a majority of voters, it wins. Otherwise, the option(s) obtaining the least number of votes is (are) eliminated, and the options ranked second by those voters get those votes.\n\nIRV is being promoted in the U.S. by numerous individuals and organizations. One of these is FairVote, which provides a long list of endorsers of IRV, including President Obama, Senators John McCain and Bernie Sanders, five U.S. Representatives, policy analyst Michael E. Arth, the Green, Libertarian, and Socialist parties, a dozen state chapters of the League of Women Voters, four state chapters of the Democratic Party, the Republican party of Alaska, and many others. It is currently being used in some jurisdictions in the U.S. including State of Maine for first time.\n\nThere have long been concerns about problems with the Electoral College method of selecting the President and Vice President. Under this system the party that wins a plurality in a given state gets all that state's electoral votes. (In Maine and Nebraska, the plurality rule applies by congressional district.)\n\nModern polling has allowed the presidential campaigns to divide the nation into \"Swing\" or \"Battleground\" states and states with near-certain victories for either the Republican or Democratic candidates: The campaigns then increases their chances of winning by focusing primarily on swing states. This effectively disfranchises voters in other states to the extent that their concerns differ from swing states.\n\nOfficially abolishing the Electoral College would require amending the U.S. Constitution. However, the same effect could be achieved if the Electoral College representatives from states with a majority of the electoral votes were all committed to vote for the presidential slate that achieved a plurality (or the majority after Instant-runoff voting): Presidential candidates would then have to compete for votes in all 50 states, not just the swing states, typically less than a dozen of the 50.\n\nThis is the idea behind the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact. Between 2007 and 2014, eleven states with electoral votes totaling 165 had approved the compact. To take effect it must be approved by states with electoral votes totaling 270, just over half of the 538 current total electoral votes.\n\nIn the United States House of Representatives and many other legislative bodies such as city councils, members are elected from districts, whose boundaries are changed periodically through a process known as redistricting. When this process is manipulated to benefit a particular political party or incumbent, the result is known as Gerrymandering. The Open Our Democracy Act of 2017 is a bill designed to end gerrymandering which is currently awaiting scheduling for a vote in the US House of Representatives.\n\nOrganizations promoting changes in redistricting include FairVote and .\n\nVoting is not required of citizens in any state, so elections are decided by those who show up. Politicians target their message at getting their own supporters out to the polls, rather than winning over the citizens in the middle. One solution to this problem is compulsory voting.\n\nCompulsory voting has been criticized as \"vaguely un-American\" but potentially beneficial to democracy.\n\nOrganizations that support some variant of at least one of the reforms mentioned above include Common Cause, Public Citizen, Move to Amend, People for the American Way, National Popular Vote Inc., Rootstrikers, and FairVote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21059343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21059343", "title": "Farmana", "text": "Farmana\n\nFarmana Khas or Daksh Khera is an archaeological site in Meham block of Rohtak district in northern Indian state of Haryana spread over 18.5 hectares. It is located near the village of Farmana Khas, about 15 kilometers from the Rohtak-Hissar highway and 60 kilometres from Delhi. It is significant particularly for its burial site, with 70 burials, of the Mature Harappan period (2500–2000 BC) and fairly recent addition (excavation started during 2006) to Indus Valley Civilisation sites excavated in India.\n\nThis site was excavated under the direction of Vasant Shinde of the Deccan College Post Graduate and Research Institute, Pune. The project was financed by the Research Institute for Humanity and Nature, Kyoto, which also provided technical expertise. The Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak and Deccan College Post Graduate and Research Institute, Pune under the aegis of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) are the Indian partners of the project.\n\nThe site is divided in two areas, one for the living and one for the dead, separated by a distance of 1 km. The finds were made in intensely cultivated, flat land. The habitation site is spread over 18.5 hectare. Excavation has revealed a well-laid-out road with houses on either side.\n\nThe site has four complexes and so far one complex has been excavated which has 26 rooms, 3 to 4 kitchens, an equal number of bathrooms and a courtyard in the centre. Terracotta toys, whistle, wheels and seals, copper bangles, a small ornament of gold and large amount of pottery has been retrieved.\n\nThe cemetery at Farmana has revealed 70 burials so far and has been assigned to the Mature Harappan phase (2500–2000 BC), whereas the burial site at Sanauli, in the Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh, which revealed 116 graves, belongs to a later stage of Harappan culture. Most of the graves are oriented northwest-southeast, though there are some with north-south and northeast-southwest orientations as well. Notable amongst them is a skeleton of a middle-aged woman, which had three shell bangles, two copper bangles, copper earrings, beads and ornaments on the feet, indicating her wealthy status.\n\nVasant Shinde announced in March 2009 the intention to conduct scientific tests on skeletal remains, pottery and botanical evidence found at the site, including DNA tests on bones to attempt to establish the origins of the Harappans, and trace element analyses to help understand their diet. However DNA extraction from these skeletons did not succeed as they were contaminated due to long exposure and floods.\n\nFour-thousand-year-old teeth from skeletal remains in Harappa cemetery & Farmana were examined. Human dental enamels were compared and chemical analysis of water, fauna, rocks of those times using ratio of lead & strontium ration was done. Differences in early molars and late morals indicate people living in Indus Valley Cities migrated from countryside to urban areas.\n\nThe team also plans to carry out coring tests in lakes around the Farmana site to ascertain climatic conditions prevalent at the time of the Harappan civilization, and investigate whether the decline of the culture followed catastrophic climate change.\n\nStudy of Starch Grains which are plant microfossils, obtained from storing and cooking ceramic vessels, stone tools as well as dental calculus of burials has shed a light on plant usage in Indus Valley Civilization. Use of wheat, barley, millet, gram, garlic whose seeds were found and use of horsegram, eggplant, mango, ginger, turmeric, sedge whose seeds were not found, has been confirmed.\n\nPresence of cooked ginger & turmeric starch grains inside ceramic pots & teeth of skeletons in burial sites make Farmana (Indus Valley) first civilization to use spices for cooking.\n\nA recent advance in the study have shown evidence of inter-regional marriage performed by the Harappans for trade purposes as well.\n\nBangles and beads made out of conch shells from Gujarat were also found at this site.\n\n"}
{"id": "24665212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24665212", "title": "Feminist constructivism", "text": "Feminist constructivism\n\nFeminist constructivism is an international relations theory which builds upon the theory of constructivism. Feminist constructivism focuses upon the study of how ideas about gender influence global politics. It is the communication between two postcolonial theories; feminism and constructivism, and how they both share similar key ideas in creating gender equality globally.\n\nConstructivism is a theory of knowledge which argues that humans generate knowledge and meaning through world interactions and ideas. Constructivists argue that international life is social, resulting from the ways people interact with each other (i.e. talk, follow norms, create rules, etc.). While there are similarities, feminist constructivists view relationships of power differently than traditional constructivists. Power and gender are considered \"integral elements in processes of construction,\" where as traditionalists believe power to be external. Feminist constructivists argue that the lack of problematization research as a social process of construction is logically inconsistent \"with an ontology of becoming.\" They also believe that differences between men and women, other than anatomical differences, were \"constructed \"due to socialization and cultural training. However, there are criticisms that take place between interactions of feminism with constructivism. Many feminists do not agree with constructivism as an alternative middle ground due to most constructivists ignoring feminist literature and gender analysis. It's also pointed out that constructivism lacks the tools to explain how gender and power in politics influence each other, due to the social construction of power being under theorized.\n\nMajor critiques in the feminist presence of global politics have not received as much attention in the media, due to more attention being given to the arguments of environmentalists and labor issues at anti-trade rallies, as opposed to those of feminist ideologies. However, some places were found to be very ambivalent towards anti-globalization, an example being women in India who weren't concerned with the demands that linked trade liberalization with the enforcement of work standards.\n\nMany dilemmas feminists observe is that there is some difficulty in measuring out the impact feminists had on international relations. Feminist theory tends to reveal politics in every aspect of the research process, whether it's absence of action, silence of major concerns, oppression of feminist beliefs, and the power epistemology has on others preconceptions. In order to change this, many researchers utilize \"feminist research ethic\", the commitment to inquire how one inquires. It involves being attentive to the power of knowledge, boundaries, marginalization, and silences, relationships and the power differentials between them, and the researcher's own situatedness. Epistemology plays a significant role, in that the researcher must destabilize themselves from our system of thought that goes into distinguishing fact from belief, which then allows the researcher to be objective in their studies. Another key component in \"feminist research ethic\" is boundaries, as in being attentive to them and their power to marginalize. It may include inclusion and exclusion of boundaries, as well as breaking them down. Having a \"feminist research ethic\" also requires the researcher to consider are relationships and how social, political, and economical actions are interrelated with other actions and lives.\n\nWhen women or other members of minority groups obtain a position of substantial power in society, they most likely will encounter trouble garnering compliance for the use of their powers. This is primarily caused by the existing belief that gender is an institutionalized system of social practices for constituting males and females as different in socially significant ways and organizing inequalities in terms of those differences. Expectation states theory states that gender is deep seated within social hierarchy because the rules for gender systems that contain stereotypes are considered status beliefs, cultural schemas about the leadership position that are based on gender, race, ethnicity, education, or occupation.\n\n"}
{"id": "22890881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22890881", "title": "French National School for the Judiciary", "text": "French National School for the Judiciary\n\nThe French National School for the Judiciary (French: \"École nationale de la magistrature\" or ENM) is a French post-graduate school, where French judges and public prosecutors are trained. The institution was created by ordinance of 22 December 1958 as the \"National Centre for Judicial Studies\" (French: \"Centre national d'études judiciaires\"). It became the French National School for the Judiciary in 1972. It is located in Bordeaux and has premises in Paris.\n\nThe aim of the training provided by the ENM is to form a corps of judges and public prosecutors who are suitable for all posts on the bench as well as in the public prosecution service in first instance courts. \nThe judicial functions are :\n\nA prospective judge or deputy public prosecutor must complete a Bachelor in Law (which requires three years of study) and a Master in Law (which requires two years of study) before entering the National School for the Judiciary. Admission is made through an entrance examination, which people generally take after completing dedicated studies in post-graduate preparatory class (\"Institut d'études judiciaires\").\n\nIn 2013, 2280 people were candidates; among them, 324 were invited to oral examinations, and 214 were admitted. French citizenship is required for admission to the French National School for the Judiciary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48648089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48648089", "title": "Game development kit", "text": "Game development kit\n\nGame development kits (GDK) are specialized hardware used to create commercial videogames. They may be partnered with game development tools, special game engine licenses, and other middleware to aid video game development. GDKs are typically not available to the public, and require game developers to enter an agreement, partnership, or program with the hardware manufacturer to gain access to the hardware. As game console generations pass, development kits often get sold through websites like eBay without repercussions. This is often because the console manufacturers discontinue certain development programs as time passes.\n\nIn the 1980s, computing did not involve 3D modelling or any complex programming due to the limitations of hardware. This, combined with the hobbyist nature of early computer game programming, meant that not many individuals or smaller companies would develop for consoles. Even when consoles became mainstream (such as the Nintendo Entertainment System), there was no official or publicly available GDK since most console manufacturers would develop their games in-house. For example, Nintendo had internal development teams for both hardware and software.\n\nBy the fifth generation of consoles, game development kits were developed to encourage more developers to make console games and grow the videogame industry. Game development kits began as a simple way for developers to connect their computers to console hardware, allowing them to compile software on their PC and see it play directly on a console. Once most GDKs started becoming bundled with hardware-specific software, hobbyists or anyone not directly affiliated with a console manufacturer would have to write their games without the specialized software to access unique features such as the Xbox One's Kinect or the Wii U GamePad.\n\nModern game development kits often come bundled with the specialized software, and are much more formalized compared to previous-generation GDKs. In older generations of console gaming, developers had to make their own hardware and write games at various levels of programming (such as assembly). Today, programs such as Unity 3D provide a complete software environment and console manufacturers such as Nintendo provide polished & powerful development hardware through their developer programs. Other console manufacturers even allow the retail consoles to be used as development kits, provided that the development software is being used by the developer.\n\nFor a significant portion of the NES lifespan, there was no official development kit. Video game developers creating games for the NES would have to make their own development kits, such as Rocket Science Production with their \"NES Mission Control\" development system. At least two programs were used in conjunction with the NES Mission Control hardware; NESTEST.EXE which would be used to test and debug the development hardware, and HST.EXE which would be used for communication between a computer and the NES development hardware.\n\nThe Super Nintendo Entertainment System used specialized EPROM cartridges for development, as well as various software. Similar to the NES, developers often made their own development software or relied on middleware made by other developers.\n\nThe are several variations of the PlayStation development kit used for game creation. One variation of the development kit had only three components, while the PlayStation Ultimate Development Kit included up to 26 components, including the complete Net Yaroze development kit.\n\nThe Net Yaroze version of the development kit was unique in that it had some features removed and added compared to the official (complete) PlayStation development kit. The Net Yaroze hardware was designed for hobbyists, while official developers would have access to the official PlayStation development kits. There was also a blue version of the PlayStation made for developers that would read burned discs to allow quick testing of imaged builds of their videogames. While there were official PlayStation-branded CD-Rs that could be used with the blue PlayStation, regular CD-Rs were also compatible with the system.\n\nThe Nintendo 64 development kit consisted of multiple components, both for the N64 and its add-on, the N64DD. The main hardware used in N64 game development was the Partner-N64 Development Kit, and used tall cartridges for game development/testing rather than the short cartridges that were sold with retail games. Another hardware component in N64 development was the NU64 Flash Gang Writer, which allowed developers to copy data from one cartridge to multiple cartridges simultaneously. This device was primarily used to create press and test copies of games, and also relied on tall cartridges instead of short retail cartridges.\n\nOther versions of the Nintendo 64 GDK are the SN Systems development suite, as well as the SN Maestro 64 Music development system. The development suite allowed developers to run code from a computer directly to the console, and included a software package. The Maestro 64 Music system allowed developers to load music software on to the console, and play music through the Nintendo 64's hardware.\n\nSega Dreamcast units were unique in that they used \"GD-ROM\" discs; giga discs that held 1GB of data. This was slightly more than a typical CD, but less than a DVD. While GD-ROM burners were used by some developers, since the Dreamcast was compatible with CDs and since most games didn't take up 1GB of data at the time, GD-ROMs remained uncommon as developers opted to use the more-easily accessible CDs for their disc media.\n\nWhen developers were creating software for the original Xbox, a prototype of the controller was used in the early development kits. This controller was slimmer, had elongated sides, and used a USB cable instead of an Xbox port-compatible cable.\n\nMicrosoft manages the Xbox 360 Tools and Middleware Program, which licenses development kits (hardware and software) to professional software developers working on tools and technologies for games. Access to this program requires good industry references, prior experience in games tools and middleware development, and signing a non-disclosure agreement.\n\nThe PlayStation developer program allows registered developers to publish their games across the PlayStation Network, making their games accessible on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and PlayStation TV all through one program.\n\nThe Wii development kit was a bundle of the \"NDEV\" hardware - a big black box full of debugging/testing hardware that looks nothing like the slim white Wii consoles sold to consumers - and a disc containing the developer software tools.\n\nMicrosoft maintains multiple developer programs for people wanting to develop games for their platforms; ID@Xbox for Xbox One game development, and the Windows Dev Center for Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows 10, and Xbox One game and application development. \n\nThe PlayStation developer program allows registered developers to publish their games across the PlayStation Network, making their games accessible on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and PlayStation TV all through one program. The PlayStation 4 development kits were known as \"Orbis\", though this was just a codename. Academic institutions can register to receive PS4 development kits for educational use, and are not region-restricted unlike regular PlayStation Developer Program members.\n\nNintendo maintains a unified developer program for both its Wii U and Nintendo 3DS families of platforms. This developer program provides software and middleware to developers, and allows developers to self-publish their games to the Nintendo eShop. Games and applications published through this program are considered \"third-party\" and do not belong to Nintendo, allowing independent developers to publish their games on multiple different platforms.\n\nThe Wii U development hardware consists of a system called \"CAT-DEV\", with its accompanying peripherals such as the Display Remote Controller (presumably the Wii U GamePad) and sensor bar.\n\nNintendo's developer program allows developers to use Nintendo 3DS development kits, and allows developers to self-publish their games to the Nintendo eShop. As mentioned in the Nintendo Wii U section above, games and applications published through this program are considered \"third-party\" and do not belong to Nintendo, allowing independent developers to publish their games on multiple different platforms.\n\nStrangely, some 3DS development kits cannot play retail games.\n\n"}
{"id": "16246210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16246210", "title": "Gaming the system", "text": "Gaming the system\n\nGaming the system (also gaming or bending the rules, or rigging, abusing, cheating, milking, playing or working the system) can be defined as using the rules and procedures meant to protect a system to, instead, manipulate the system for a desired outcome.\n\nAccording to James Rieley, a British advisor to CEOs and an author, structures in companies and organizations (both explicit and implicit policies and procedures, stated goals, and mental models) drive behaviors that are detrimental to long-term organizational success and stifle competition. For some, error is the essence of gaming the system, in which a gap in protocol allows for errant practices that lead to unintended results. Although the term generally carries negative connotations, gaming the system can be used for benign purposes in the undermining and dismantling of corrupt or oppressive organisations.\n\nThe first known documented use of the term \"gaming the system\" is in 1975.\n\nHenry Paulson, considering that the financial crisis of 2007–08 demonstrated that US financial markets had outgrown the ability of the system that had been used to regulate them, saw as a necessity a better framework than US financial markets had used before. This framework would be one that featured less duplication and that restricted the ability of financial firms to pick and choose their own, generally less strict regulators—a practice known as regulatory arbitrage, which enabled widespread gaming of the regulatory system.\n\nA similar, contributing effect has been identified within corporate rating systems, where gaming the system becomes virulent when formalization is combined with transparency.\n\nDesigners of online communities are explicitly warned that whenever one creates a system for managing a community, someone will try to work it to their advantage. Accordingly, they are advised from the start to think like a bad guy and to consider what behaviors they are unintentionally encouraging by creating some new social rules for the community.\n\nParental divisions on child-rearing will always give the child plenty of opportunity to play one parent off against the other. Object relations theory stresses, however, that while, if a child finds one parent easy to get round, compared with the other who is trying to set limits, it is likely to take advantage of that split. According to this theory, this is always a hollow triumph; what the child is really hoping is that such parents will eventually begin to see a need to get together on the issue of limit-setting.\n\nOn the particular point of contingent feeding—offering treats on condition that a certain unpopular food is eaten—it has been specifically noted that contingent feeding encourages children to argue and practice gaming the system fighting over the fine print.\n\nNHS dentistry in the UK sees the frequent use of \"gaming the system\" to describe the use of adapting treatment to the payment system, and is frequently referred to as simply \"gaming\". The practice of adapting treatment to payment systems, rather than clinical need, is thought to be widespread in NHS dentistry and is considered by some to be as a result of a poorly-planned target based system. The term is also used to describe obfuscation of the scope of NHS dentistry in order to \"upsell\" items of treatment that should be available.\n\nIn performance management, gaming the system is finding ways to achieve good scores on performance metrics (for employees or departments) without achieving the aims of the corporation which the metrics were instigated to promote. This is related to the well-known problem inherent in incentive system design, in that people will tend to pursue incentives, even by means that make no common sense, should the incentive be naively constructed.\n\nEric Berne identified a kind of gaming the system in a clinical context through what he called the game of \"Psychiatry\", with its motto \"You will never cure me, but you will teach me to be a better neurotic (play a better game of 'Psychiatry').\" A few patients, he noted, carefully pick weak psychoanalysts, moving from one to another, demonstrating that they can't be cured and meanwhile learning to play a sharper and sharper game of 'Psychiatry;' eventually it becomes difficult for even a first-rate clinician to separate the wheat from the chaff.\n\nSome people confuse \"gaming the system\" with \"working the system\". Gaming the system has a negative connotation, while working the system has a positive meaning. Working the system implies that one is using an understanding to work within the system to attain sets of goals that align, whereas gaming the system implies using this understanding to attain specific goals that don't align with the rest of a set of goals. Depending on the observers interest or preferred goals, this may be perceived as unfair or as an outcome for which the system was never intended. The cause of the difference between gaming the system and working the system lies in the existence of a (perceived) conflict between goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158879", "title": "George Carlin", "text": "George Carlin\n\nGeorge Denis Patrick Carlin (May 12, 1937 – June 22, 2008) was an American stand-up comedian, actor, author, and social critic.\n\nCarlin was noted for his black comedy and reflections on politics, the English language, psychology, religion, and various taboo subjects. He and his \"seven dirty words\" comedy routine were central to the 1978 U.S. Supreme Court case \"F.C.C. v. Pacifica Foundation\", in which a 5–4 decision affirmed the government's power to regulate indecent material on the public airwaves. He is widely regarded as one of the most important and influential stand-up comics; one newspaper called Carlin \"the dean of counterculture comedians\". In April 2004, he placed second on the Comedy Central list of \"Top 10 Comedians of US Audiences\".\n\nThe first of Carlin's 14 stand-up comedy specials for HBO was filmed in 1977. From the late 1980s, Carlin's routines focused on sociocultural criticism of American society. He often commented on contemporary political issues in the United States and satirized the excesses of American culture. He was a frequent performer and guest host on \"The Tonight Show\" during the three-decade Johnny Carson era, and hosted the first episode of \"Saturday Night Live\" in 1975. His final HBO special, \"It's Bad for Ya\", was filmed less than four months before his death. In 2008, he was posthumously awarded the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor. In 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine ranked him second (behind Richard Pryor) on its list of the 50 best stand-up comics of all time.\n\nGeorge Denis Patrick Carlin was born on May 12, 1937 in Manhattan, New York, the younger son of secretary Mary Carlin (\"née\" Bearey) and \"The Sun\" advertising manager Patrick John Carlin. His father was an Irish immigrant from County Donegal, while his mother was an Irish-American. Carlin's maternal grandfather, Dennis Bearey, was an Irish immigrant who worked as an NYPD officer. Carlin recalled that his grandmother's maiden name was O'Grady, but it was changed to Grady before she reached the U.S. He later joked that they \"dropped the O in the ocean on the way here\". He would later name his character on \"The George Carlin Show\" O'Grady as an act of homage to her. Although born to a Catholic family, Carlin rejected religion. His parents separated when he was two months old because of his father's alcoholism. Mary subsequently raised Carlin and his older brother, Patrick Jr., on her own.\n\nCarlin said that he picked up an appreciation for the effective use of the English language from his mother, though they had a difficult relationship, and he often ran away from home. He grew up on West 121st Street, in a neighborhood of Manhattan he said he and his friends called \"White Harlem\" because that \"sounded a lot tougher than its real name\" of Morningside Heights. He attended Corpus Christi School, a Roman Catholic parish school of the Corpus Christi Church in Morningside Heights. He went to the Bronx for high school but, after three semesters, Carlin was thrown out of Cardinal Hayes High School at age 15. He briefly attended Bishop Dubois High School in Harlem and the Salesian High School in Goshen, New York. He spent many summers at Camp Notre Dame on Spofford Lake in Spofford, New Hampshire, and regularly won the camp's drama award. Much later in life, he requested that a portion of his ashes be spread at the lake after his death.\n\nCarlin joined the United States Air Force and trained as a radar technician. He was stationed at Barksdale Air Force Base in Bossier City, Louisiana. He also began working as a disc jockey at radio station KJOE, in nearby Shreveport. Labeled an \"unproductive airman\" by his superiors, Carlin received a general discharge on July 29, 1957. During his time in the Air Force, he had been court-martialed three times, and also received many nonjudicial punishments.\n\nIn 1959, Carlin met Jack Burns, a fellow DJ at radio station KXOL in Fort Worth, Texas. They formed a comedy team and after successful performances at Fort Worth's beat coffeehouse called The Cellar, Burns and Carlin headed for California in February 1960.\n\nWithin weeks of arriving in California, Burns and Carlin put together an audition tape and created \"The Wright Brothers\", a morning show on KDAY in Hollywood. During their tenure at KDAY, they honed their material in beatnik coffeehouses at night. Years later when he was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, Carlin requested that it be placed in front of the KDAY studios near the corner of Sunset Boulevard and Vine Street. Burns and Carlin recorded their only album, \"Burns and Carlin at the Playboy Club Tonight\", in May 1960 at Cosmo Alley in Hollywood. After two years together as a team, they parted to pursue individual careers, but \"remain[ed] the best of friends\".\n\nIn the 1960s, Carlin began appearing on television variety shows, where he played various characters:\n\nVariations on these routines appear on Carlin's 1967 debut album, \"Take-Offs and Put-Ons\", which was recorded live in 1966 at The Roostertail in Detroit, Michigan and issued by RCA Victor in 1967.\n\nDuring this period, Carlin became a frequent performer and guest host on \"The Tonight Show\", initially with Jack Paar as host, then with Johnny Carson. Carlin became one of Carson's most frequent substitutes during the host's three-decade reign. Carlin was also cast in \"Away We Go\", a 1967 comedy show that aired on CBS. His material during his early career and his appearance, which consisted of suits and short-cropped hair, had been seen as \"conventional\", particularly when contrasted with his later anti-establishment material.\n\nCarlin was present at Lenny Bruce's arrest for obscenity. As the police began attempting to detain members of the audience for questioning, they asked Carlin for his identification. Telling the police he did not believe in government-issued IDs, he was arrested and taken to jail with Bruce in the same vehicle.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Carlin was making about $250,000 annually. As a tax shelter he bought a private jet – a twin-engine Aero Commander 1121 Jet Commander. Carlin hired pilots to fly him to various tour dates.\nEventually, Carlin changed his routines and his appearance. Carlin hired talent managers – Jeff Wald and Ron De Blasio – to help him reinvent his image, making him look more hip for a younger audience. Wald put Carlin into much smaller clubs such as The Troubadour in West Hollywood and The Bitter End in New York City. Wald says that Carlin's income was thus reduced by 90%, but his later career arc was greatly improved. In 1970, record producer Monte Kay formed the Little David Records subsidiary of Atlantic Records, with comedian Flip Wilson as co-owner. Kay and Wilson signed Carlin away from RCA Records, and recorded a Carlin performance at Washington, D.C.'s The Cellar Door in May 1971—this was released as \"FM & AM\" in January 1972. De Blasio was busy managing the fast-paced career of Freddie Prinze, and was about to sign Richard Pryor, so he released Carlin to Little David general manager Jack Lewis, who, like Carlin, was somewhat wild and rebellious. Carlin lost some TV bookings by dressing strangely for a comedian of the time, wearing faded jeans and sporting long hair, a beard, and earrings at a time when clean-cut, well-dressed comedians were the norm. Using his own persona as a springboard for his new comedy, he was presented by Ed Sullivan in a performance of \"The Hair Piece\" and quickly regained his popularity as the public caught on to his sense of style.\n\nStarting in 1972, singer-songwriter Kenny Rankin was Carlin's label mate on Little David Records, and Rankin served many times as Carlin's musical guest or opening act during the early 1970s. The two flew together in Carlin's private jet; Carlin says that Rankin relapsed into using cocaine while on tour since Carlin had so much of the drug available.\n\nThe album \"FM & AM\" proved very popular. It marked Carlin's change from mainstream to counterculture comedy. The \"AM\" side was an extension of Carlin's previous style, with zany but relatively clean routines parodying aspects of American life. The \"FM\" side introduced Carlin's new style, with references to marijuana and birth control pills, and a playful examination of the word \"shit\". In this manner, Carlin renewed a style of radical social commentary comedy that Lenny Bruce had pioneered in the late 1950s.\n\nIn this period Carlin perfected his well-known routine, \"Seven Words You Can Never Say on Television\", recorded on \"Class Clown\". On July 21, 1972, Carlin was arrested after performing this routine at Milwaukee's Summerfest and charged with violating obscenity laws. The case, which prompted Carlin to refer to the words for a time as \"the Milwaukee Seven\", was dismissed in December of that year; the judge declared that the language was indecent but Carlin had the freedom to say it as long as he caused no disturbance. In 1973, a man complained to the Federal Communications Commission after listening with his son to a similar routine, \"Filthy Words\", from \"\", broadcast one afternoon over WBAI, a Pacifica Foundation FM radio station in New York City. Pacifica received a citation from the FCC for violating regulations that prohibit broadcasting \"obscene\" material. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the FCC action by a vote of 5 to 4, ruling that the routine was \"indecent but not obscene\" and that the FCC had authority to prohibit such broadcasts during hours when children were likely to be among the audience (\"F.C.C. v. Pacifica Foundation\", 438 U.S. 726 (1978); the court documents contain a complete transcript of the routine).\n\nThe controversy increased Carlin's fame. He eventually expanded the dirty-words theme with a seemingly interminable end to a performance (ending with his voice fading out in one HBO version, and accompanying the credits in the \"Carlin at Carnegie\" special for the 1982–83 season) and a set of 49 web pages organized by subject and embracing his \"Incomplete List of Impolite Words\".\n\nOn stage, during a rendition of his \"Dirty Words\" routine, Carlin learned that his previous comedy album \"FM & AM\" had won the Grammy. Midway through the performance on the album \"Occupation: Foole\", he can be heard thanking someone for handing him a piece of paper. He then exclaimed \"Shit!\" and proudly announced his win to the audience.\n\nCarlin hosted the premiere broadcast of NBC's \"Saturday Night Live\", on October 11, 1975, the only episode to date in which the host did not appear (at his request) in sketches. The following season, 1976–77, he appeared regularly on CBS Television's \"Tony Orlando & Dawn\" variety series.\n\nCarlin unexpectedly stopped performing regularly in 1976, when his career appeared to be at its height. For the next five years he rarely performed stand-up, although it was at this time that he began doing specials for HBO as part of its \"On Location\" series; doing 14 specials, including 2008's \"It's Bad For Ya!\" He later revealed that he had suffered the first of three heart attacks during this layoff period. His first two HBO specials aired in 1977 and 1978.\nIn 1981, Carlin returned to the stage, releasing \"A Place for My Stuff\" and returning to HBO and New York City with the \"Carlin at Carnegie\" TV special, videotaped at Carnegie Hall and airing during the 1982–83 season. Carlin continued doing HBO specials every year or every other year over the following decade and a half. All of Carlin's albums from this time forward are from the HBO specials.\n\nHe hosted \"SNL\" for the second time on November 10, 1984, this time appearing in several sketches.\n\nCarlin began to achieve prominence as a film actor with a major supporting role in the 1987 comedy hit \"Outrageous Fortune\", starring Bette Midler and Shelley Long; it was his first notable screen role after a handful of previous guest roles on television series. Playing drifter Frank Madras, the role poked fun at the lingering effect of the 1960s counterculture. In 1989, he gained popularity with a new generation of teens when he was cast as Rufus, the time-traveling mentor of the title characters in \"Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure\", and reprised his role in the film sequel \"Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey\" as well as the first season of the cartoon series. He also played the role of \"Mr Conductor\" on the PBS show \"Shining Time Station\" and narrated the show's sequences of the American version of \"Thomas & Friends\" from 1991 to 1995, replacing Ringo Starr. On the first day of the assignment, Carlin was cross about recording his narration without an audience, so the producers put a stuffed teddy bear in the booth.\n\nAlso in 1991, Carlin had a major supporting role in the movie \"The Prince of Tides\", which starred Nick Nolte and Barbra Streisand, portraying the gay neighbor of the main character's suicidal sister.\n\nIn 1993, Carlin began a weekly Fox sitcom, \"The George Carlin Show\", playing New York City taxicab driver George O'Grady. The show, created and written by \"The Simpsons\" co-creator Sam Simon, ran 27 episodes through December 1995. In his final book, the posthumously published \"Last Words\", Carlin said about \"The George Carlin Show\", \"I had a great time. I never laughed so much, so often, so hard as I did with cast members Alex Rocco, Chris Rich, Tony Starke. There was a very strange, very good sense of humor on that stage ... [but] I was incredibly happy when the show was canceled. I was frustrated that it had taken me away from my true work.\"\n\nCarlin later explained that there were other, more pragmatic reasons for abandoning his acting career in favor of standup. In an interview for \"Esquire\" magazine in 2001, he said, \"Because of my abuse of drugs, I neglected my business affairs and had large arrears with the IRS, and that took me eighteen to twenty years to dig out of. I did it honorably, and I don't begrudge them. I don't hate paying taxes, and I'm not angry at anyone, because I was complicit in it. But I'll tell you what it did for me: it made me a way better comedian. Because I had to stay out on the road and I couldn't pursue that movie career, which would have gone nowhere, and I became a really good comic and a really good writer.\"\n\nCarlin was honored at the 1997 Aspen Comedy Festival with a retrospective, \"\", hosted by Jon Stewart. His first hardcover book, \"Brain Droppings\" (1997), sold nearly 900,000 copies and spent 40 weeks on the \"New York Times\" best-seller list.\n\nIn 2001, Carlin was given a Lifetime Achievement Award at the 15th Annual American Comedy Awards.\nIn December 2003 Representative Doug Ose (R-California) introduced a bill (H.R. 3687) to outlaw the broadcast of Carlin's \"seven dirty words\", including \"compound use (including hyphenated compounds) of such words and phrases with each other or with other words or phrases, and other grammatical forms of such words and phrases (including verb, adjective, gerund, participle, and infinitive forms)\". The bill omitted \"tits\", but included \"asshole\", which was not one of Carlin's original seven words. The bill was referred to the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution in January 2004, where it was tabled.\n\nCarlin performed regularly as a headliner in Las Vegas, but in 2004 his run at the MGM Grand Las Vegas was terminated after an altercation with his audience. After a poorly received set, filled with dark references to suicide bombings and beheadings, Carlin complained that he could not wait to get out of \"this fucking hotel\" and Las Vegas; he wanted to go back east, he said, \"where the real people are\". He continued:\n\nWhen an audience member shouted \"Stop degrading us!\" Carlin responded \"Thank you very much, whatever that was. I hope it was positive; if not, well, blow me.\" He was immediately fired, and soon thereafter his representative announced that he would begin treatment for alcohol and prescription painkiller addiction on his own initiative.\n\nFollowing his thirteenth HBO Special on November 5, 2005, titled \"Life Is Worth Losing\" and aired live from the Beacon Theatre in New York City – during which he mentioned, \"I've got 341 days of sobriety\" – Carlin toured his new material through the first half of 2006. Topics included suicide, natural disasters, cannibalism, genocide, human sacrifice, threats to civil liberties in the U.S., and the case for his theory that humans are inferior to other animals. At the first tour stop at the Tachi Palace Casino in Lemoore, California in February, Carlin mentioned that the appearance was his \"first show back\" after a six-week hospitalization for heart failure and pneumonia.\n\nCarlin voiced a character in the 2006 Disney/Pixar animated feature \"Cars\". The character, Fillmore, is an anti-establishment hippie VW Microbus with a psychedelic paint job and the license plate \"51237\" – Carlin's birthday. In 2007, Carlin voiced the wizard in \"Happily N'Ever After\", his last film.\n\nCarlin's last HBO stand-up special, \"It's Bad for Ya\", aired live on March 1, 2008, from the Wells Fargo Center for the Arts in Santa Rosa, California. Themes included \"American bullshit\", rights, death, old age, and child rearing. He repeated the theme to his audience several times throughout the show: \"It's all bullshit, and it's bad for ya.\"\n\nWhen asked on \"Inside the Actors Studio\" what turned him on, he responded, \"Reading about language.\" When asked what made him proudest of his career, he said the number of his books that have been sold, close to a million copies.\n\nCarlin met Brenda Hosbrook in August 1960 while touring with Burns and Carlin in Dayton, Ohio. They were married at her parents' home in Dayton on June 3, 1961. The couple's only child, Kelly, was born on June 15, 1963. In 1971, they renewed their wedding vows in Las Vegas. Hosbrook died of liver cancer on May 11, 1997, the day before Carlin's 60th birthday.\n\nIn November 1997, Carlin met Sally Wade, a comedy writer based in Hollywood; Carlin described it as \"love at first sight\", but was hesitant to act on his feelings so soon after his wife's death. They eventually married on June 24, 1998, in a private, unregistered ceremony. The marriage lasted until Carlin's death in 2008, two days before their tenth anniversary.\n\nCarlin criticized elections as an illusion of choice. In a 2004 interview, Carlin stated the last time he voted was in 1972 for George McGovern, who ran for President against Richard Nixon.\n\nCarlin also criticized religion and mocked traditional oath affirmations on the Bible as \"bullshit\", \"make believe\", and \"kid stuff\". However, he warned, \"Be happy, don't be proud, there's too much pride as it is. 'Pride goeth before the fall'—never forget \"Proverbs\".\" Carlin repeatedly joked that he worshipped the sun because he could see it, and prayed to Joe Pesci because he \"looks like a guy who could get things done\".\n\nIn a 2008 interview, Carlin stated that using cannabis, LSD, and mescaline helped him in his personal life.\n\nCarlin had a history of cardiac problems spanning three decades. These included three heart attacks (in 1978, 1982, and 1991), an arrhythmia requiring an ablation procedure in 2003, and a significant episode of heart failure in late 2005. He twice underwent angioplasty to unblock clogged arteries. In late 2004, he entered a drug rehabilitation facility for treatment of addictions to alcohol and Vicodin.\n\nCarlin died on June 22, 2008 at Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica, California, of cardiac arrest at age 71. His death occurred one week after his last performance at The Orleans Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. In accordance with his wishes his body was cremated, and the ashes were scattered in front of various nightclubs he played in New York City and over Spofford Lake, in Chesterfield, New Hampshire, where he attended summer camp as an adolescent.\n\nUpon his death HBO broadcast 11 of his 14 HBO specials from June 25 to 28, including a 12-hour marathon block on their HBO Comedy channel. NBC scheduled a rerun of the premiere episode of \"Saturday Night Live\", which Carlin hosted. Both Sirius Satellite Radio's \"Raw Dog Comedy\" and XM Satellite Radio's \"XM Comedy\" channels ran a memorial marathon of George Carlin recordings the day following his death. Larry King devoted his entire show of June 23 to a tribute to Carlin, featuring interviews with Jerry Seinfeld, Bill Maher, Roseanne Barr and Lewis Black, as well as Carlin's daughter Kelly and his brother, Patrick Jr. On June 24, \"The New York Times\" printed an op-ed piece on Carlin by Jerry Seinfeld. Cartoonist Garry Trudeau paid tribute in his \"Doonesbury\" comic strip on July 27.\n\nFour days before Carlin's death, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts had named him its 2008 Mark Twain Prize for American Humor honoree. He became its first posthumous recipient on November 10 in Washington, D.C. Comedians honoring him at the ceremony included Jon Stewart, Bill Maher, Lily Tomlin (a past Twain Humor Prize winner), Lewis Black, Denis Leary, Joan Rivers, and Margaret Cho. Louis C.K. dedicated his stand-up special \"Chewed Up\" to Carlin, and Lewis Black dedicated the second season of \"Root of All Evil\" to him.\n\nFor a number of years, Carlin had been compiling and writing his autobiography, to be released in conjunction with a one-man Broadway show tentatively titled \"New York City Boy\". After Carlin's death, Tony Hendra, his collaborator on both projects, edited the autobiography for release as \"Last Words\". The book, chronicling most of Carlin's life and future plans, including the one-man show, was published in 2009. The audio edition is narrated by Carlin's brother, Patrick Jr.\n\n\"The George Carlin Letters: The Permanent Courtship of Sally Wade\", by Carlin's widow, a collection of previously unpublished writings and artwork by Carlin interwoven with Wade's chronicle of their 10 years together, was published in March 2011. The subtitle is a phrase on a handwritten note that Wade found next to her computer upon returning home from the hospital after her husband's death. In 2008 Carlin's daughter Kelly announced plans to publish an \"oral history\", a collection of stories from Carlin's friends and family. She later indicated that the project had been shelved in favor of completion of her own project, an autobiographical one-woman show, \"A Carlin Home Companion: Growing Up with George\".\n\nOn October 22, 2014, a portion of West 121st Street, in the Morningside Heights area of Manhattan where Carlin spent his childhood, was renamed \"George Carlin Way\".\n\nMoneyball screenwriter Stan Chervin announced in October 2018 that the biopic of Carlin was in process.\n\nCarlin's influences included Danny Kaye, Jonathan Winters, Lenny Bruce, Richard Pryor, Jerry Lewis, the Marx Brothers, Mort Sahl, Spike Jones, Ernie Kovacs, and the Ritz Brothers.\n\nComedians who have claimed Carlin as an influence include Dave Attell, Bill Burr, Chris Rock, Jerry Seinfeld, Louis C.K., Lewis Black, Jon Stewart, Stephen Colbert, Bill Maher, Patrice O'Neal, Adam Carolla, Colin Quinn, Steven Wright, Mitch Hedberg, Russell Peters, Bo Burnham Jay Leno, Ben Stiller, Kevin Smith, Chris Rush, Rob McElhenney, and Jim Jefferies.\n\n\n\n\n\nMany writings found on the internet have been falsely attributed to Carlin, including various joke lists, rants, and other pieces. The web site Snopes, an online resource that debunks urban legends and myths, has addressed these hoaxes. Many of them contain material that runs counter to Carlin's viewpoints; some are especially volatile toward racial groups, gays, women, the homeless, and other targets. Carlin was aware of these bogus emails and debunked them on his own web site, saying, \"Here's a rule of thumb, folks: Nothing you see on the Internet is mine unless it comes from one of my albums, books, HBO specials, or appeared on my web site\", and \"It bothers me that some people might believe that I would be capable of writing some of this stuff.\" Weird Al Yankovic referenced these hoaxes in a line of his song \"Stop Forwarding That Crap to Me\" by saying \"And by the way, those quotes from George Carlin aren't really George Carlin\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28271920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28271920", "title": "Giovanni Pettinato", "text": "Giovanni Pettinato\n\nGiovanni Pettinato (30 April 1934 in Troina – 19 May 2011 in Rome) was a paleographer of writings from the ancient Near East, specializing in the Eblaite language, His major contributions to the field include the deciphering of the Eblaite script, discovered by P. Matthiae in 1974–75.\n\nPettinato graduated from Heidelberg in 1968, where he had studied for ten years. In 1968 he began teaching Assyriology at the University of Rome.\n\nPettinato died on 19 May 2011 at the age of 76. He was an emeritus of several associations, including the Accademia dei Lincei and authored several publications about the Sumerian and Mesopotamian civilizations.\n"}
{"id": "2708325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2708325", "title": "Hanswurst", "text": "Hanswurst\n\nHanswurst was a popular coarse-comic figure of German-speaking impromptu comedy. He is \"a half doltish, half cunning, partly stupid, partly knowing, enterprising and cowardly, self indulgent and merry fellow, who, in accordance with circumstances, accentuated one or other of these characteristics.\"\n\nThrough the 16th and 17th centuries, he was a buffoon character in rural carnival theaters and touring companies. The name first appeared in a Middle Low German version of Sebastian Brant's Ship of Fools (1519) (using the name Hans myst). \"Hanswurst\" was also a mockery and insult. Martin Luther used it in his 1541 pamphlet \"Wider Hans Worst\", when he railed against the Catholic Duke Henry of Brunswick. \n\nIn 1712, Joseph Anton Stranitzky developed and popularized the role of Hanswurst. The theater historian Otto Rommel saw this as the beginning of the so-called Viennese popular theater. Stranitzky's Hanswurst wore the garb of a peasant from Salzburg, with a wide-brimmed hat on. His humor was often sexual and scatological. The character found numerous imitators. \n\nIn the \"Hanswurst dispute\" of the 1730s, the scholar Johann Christoph Gottsched, in addition to the actress Friederike Caroline Neuber, strove to banish the buffoon from the German-speaking stage, to improve the quality of German comedies and to raise their social status, holding a public \"banishing\" of Hanswurst. This met with resistance, especially in Vienna. However, the staged banishment has generally been regarded as an emblematic moment in German theater history for the transition from popular, improvised, so-called ‘Stegreiftheater’ to a modern bourgeois literary mode. \n\nThe last notable Hanswurst was Franz Schuch, who merged Hanswurst with the stock Harlequin character. The Italian-French Harlequin replaced Hanswurst. In the later 18th Century Hanswurst was out of fashion and was only used in the puppet theater. Comical characters like Punch or Staberl replaced him for several decades. At the instigation of Joseph of Sonnenfels after the French Revolution (Memorandum for the future of theater censorship guidelines, 1790) the Emperor Joseph II forbade improvised comedy and burlesque-like buffoon games. Due to authoritarian fear of political agitation, arts were directed towards fixed literary form theater (the \"regular theater\") and silent, music-accompanied pantomime. In 1775, a 26-year-old Johann Wolfgang von Goethe wrote a farce entitled \"Hanswurst's Wedding\". In his 1797 comedy 'Puss in Boots,' ('Der gestiefelte Kater') Ludwig Tieck brought back the part of Hanswurst. For the Viennese Musical and Theatrical Exhibition of 1892, the actor Ludwig Gottsleben played Hanswurst.\n\nThe German film comedy \"The Comedians\" (1941) by GW Pabst, which was marked by the ideology of the war, portrayed Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, a German national poet, in a victorious battle against the foul-mouthed Hanswurst. The historical Lessing had written Hanswurst into the Hamburg Dramaturgy, and called the banishment 'the biggest buffoonery of all’ (‘die größte Harlekinade’).\n"}
{"id": "27403833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27403833", "title": "Heritage language learning", "text": "Heritage language learning\n\nHeritage language learning or heritage language acquisition is the act of learning a heritage language from an ethnolinguistic group that traditionally speaks the language, or from those whose family historically spoke the language. According to a commonly accepted definition by Valdés, heritage languages are generally minority languages in society and are typically learned at home during childhood. When a heritage language learner grows up in an environment with a dominant language that is different from their heritage language, the learner appears to be more competent in the dominant language and often feels more comfortable speaking in that language. \"Heritage language\" may also be referred to as \"community language,\" \"home language,\" and \"ancestral language\".\n\nThere are different kinds of heritage language learners, such as learners with varying levels of proficiency in the heritage language, and also those who learn a \"foreign\" language in school with which they have some connection. Polinsky & Kagan label heritage language learners on a continuum that ranges from fluent speakers to individuals who speak very little of their heritage language. Valdés points out that a connection with a heritage language does not have to be made only through direct previous exposure to the language or a certain amount of proficiency in the language. In her conception of heritage language learners, monolingual English-speaking students of Armenian ancestry in the United States could consider themselves to have a heritage language of Armenian. A different definition of heritage language learners or speakers limits the term to individuals who were exposed to the language in early childhood, but who later lost proficiency in the language in favor of adopting the majority language of the community.\n\nHeritage language acquisition theories are highly contested. The most common theory is the Incomplete Acquisition Theory, but other scholars have considered delayed acquisition, variations in input, and cross-linguistic influence as factors that contribute to heritage language speakers' competence (see section on Acquisition Theories). For children who may have acquired a different dialect of the heritage language, they would require a unique type of instruction that may differ from styles of instruction that would be most beneficial for students who experience incomplete acquisition at an early age.\n\nHeritage languages can be learned in various contexts, including public school instruction and language courses organized by a community which speaks the particular language during after-school hours or on the weekend. When someone is engaged in informal heritage language learning, they are acquiring a language from a particular ethnolinguistic group that traditionally speaks the language, or from someone whose family historically spoke the language. Formal heritage language instruction occurs inside of a classroom, where learners are taught a language that is being used inside of the home or among members of their own ethnic group. Language programs that include Saturday schools and courses that happen outside of school hours are programs where children are encouraged to further develop and improve their heritage language proficiency.\n\nAccording to Valdés, the term \"heritage language\" can be used very broadly and can refer to minority languages which are spoken by what many know as \"linguistic minorities.\" Typically, these heritage languages are endangered or have a high possibility of disappearing soon without intervention, and because of this, there are several communities in the United States that have chosen to work towards maintaining these languages.\n\nThe difference between native language (or First language) and heritage language is an important distinction to make. The term \"native language\" tends to be associated with acquisition at a very early age and carries with it the notion that a person will achieve a high amount of fluency and proficiency in this language. Typically, the native language is the dominant language for a speaker and this speaker is expected to have natural understanding of not only linguistic knowledge, but also pragmatic and cultural knowledge, as well as skills such as writing creatively, making jokes, and translating. On the other hand, the term \"heritage language\" is more associated with the language in which proficiency was sacrificed in order to gain proficiency in the dominant language in a particular community. This is not always the case, however, as some speakers of heritage languages have just as much proficiency in that language as in their other language(s).\n\nHeritage language learners differ from other types of language learners. Kagan & Dillon provide us with distinctions among speakers of Russian as a native language, and learners of Russian as a heritage language or a foreign language in the table below. The goal of the research was to distinguish between types of language learners of Russian and to use that information to create a new perspective for instruction. The table explains that students whose native language was Russian had acquired it as a child and used it throughout life with exposure to a full language community of speakers. For the students who learned Russian as a foreign language (L2), there was first an L1 or native language before they began learning Russian, the foreign language, which was typically learned solely outside of the community. Lastly, the heritage speakers of Russian had acquired Russian as an L1, but when they immigrated to the United States, English became their primary language. This left most heritage language students with varying levels of proficiency in their heritage language due to the limited community that spoke Russian.\n\nAcquisition theories have been proposed in an attempt to explain why heritage speakers’ competence in the heritage language diverges from that of their monolingual peers. Silvina Montrul’s research has been foundational to this work. Her Incomplete Acquisition Theory states that heritage speakers do not completely acquire the heritage language before switching to the L2. As attrition can also render a grammar “incomplete,” attrition is included in this theory. Multiple researchers have refuted Silvina Montrul's proposal by suggesting that the Incomplete Acquisition Theory does not take into consideration delayed acquisition, input variation, and cross-linguistic influence, all of which factor into language competence.\n\nAs research on heritage language learners' acquisition is relatively recent, dating back to the early 2000s, there remains much to be discovered about the process. It should also be noted that the following acquisition theories pertain to language learners who have learned, at least partially, the heritage language before switching to the dominant language. For more information on heritage language learners who lack personal experience with the heritage language but have ancestry who spoke the language, see language revitalization.\n\nThe Incomplete Acquisition Theory recognizes that complete acquisition of L1 takes place throughout childhood, stretching into the school-age period. Therefore, heritage language learners, who typically switch to the dominant culture’s language when they enter school and, consequently, experience a decline in input in the heritage language, do not completely acquire their first language. As heritage language learners are rarely schooled in their L1, they are often orally proficient but illiterate or have underdeveloped written comprehension and production in the heritage language. In treating heritage language learning as interrupted L1 acquisition, in which the learner has access to Universal Grammar, it is expected that heritage language learners have knowledge of concepts found in early stages of L1 development, such as binding constraints, wh-movement, and aspects of lexical semantics, and struggle with grammatical concepts that require sustained exposure and practice in school-aged children, such as specialized vocabulary and uses of the subjunctive in Spanish.\n\nAn incomplete grammar may be the result of attrition and fossilization of concepts in the L1 due to insufficient input once the child has switched to the dominant language. Attrition is the loss of, or failure to make full use of, “grammatical knowledge previously acquired\". Fossilization occurs when a speaker lets go of non-core grammatical concepts but retains the basic core structure of the language. Attrition and fossilization are considered to be part of the Incomplete Acquisition Theory because they render a language incomplete. However, Pires and Rothman (2009) argue that attrition should be distinguished from the Incomplete Acquisition Theory in future studies because, in instances of attrition, the speakers do, indeed, completely acquire the target grammar as children.\n\nDelayed acquisition may contribute to the difference in language competence between heritage speakers and monolingual speakers of the same language. Late or delayed acquisition of a language can have \"consequences for linguistic, neurological, and cognitive mechanisms\" that work to make language acquisition \"fast, effortless, and... successful\". Flores and Barbosa (2014) studied the clitic placement of heritage speakers of Portuguese living in Germany and concluded that the heritage speakers went through the same stages of acquisition as their monolingual counterparts. However, the process of acquisition was delayed and took longer for the heritage speakers because they had reduced input of the heritage language. Thus, this theory must be considered in conjunction with theories on input variation.\n\nTheories of acquisition involving variations of input postulate that heritage language learners' production of the heritage language diverges from that of their monolingual peers who speak the same language because the two groups are exposed to different dialects and quantities of input.\n\nTheories surrounding dialect variation suggest that errors or deviations from the standard dialect made by a heritage language learner may reflect the acquisition of a non-standard variety or informal register of the heritage language, which include variations on certain properties or the lack of certain properties found in the standard dialect. Heritage language learners are often only exposed to one dialect or colloquial variety of the heritage language, unlike their monolingual peers who interact with a standard monolingual dialect found in formal instruction. Furthermore, certain grammatical properties are only present in the standard dialect or are used infrequently in the colloquial dialect. Pires and Rothaman use the expression, \"missing-input competence divergence,\" to refer to instances when a grammatical property is missing from the colloquial variety.\n\nThe dramatic difference between standard and colloquial dialects is particularly evident in cases of verbal morphology, the clitic system, the subjunctive, and inflected infinitives in Brazilian Portuguese. Pires and Rothman (2009) found that Brazilian Portuguese heritage learners do not acquire inflected infinitives because their input does not \"robustly instantiate these forms\". Similarly, Dominguez (2009) found that deviations in the use and distribution of indicative and subjunctive forms that were in the output of heritage Spanish speakers were also found in the children's input (parental speech).\n\nIn certain cases, heritage language learners receive their input from first-generation migrants who have shown effects of attrition in certain domains. Consequently, the language learner would be missing grammatical properties in their input as a result of the interlocutor's attrition and would replicate these errors in their output.\n\nPires and Rothman (2009) claim that due to their \"inborn faculty of language,\" children automatically acquire the grammar found in their input. Therefore, in conclusion, it is not a deficient ability to acquire the language, but rather, the absence of, or limited access to, certain properties in the child's input that leads to errors in language production. Without access to a standard dialect of the target language often found in formal academic contexts, heritage language learners continue to make these production errors.\n\nHeritage language learners may also have a smaller quantity of input than their monolingual peers because the heritage language is only found in a restricted number of contexts and with fewer interlocutors. Citing statistics found in studies on hearing children with deaf parents, Flores and Barbosa (2014) posit that bilingual heritage language learners need a minimum of 5 to 10 hours of interaction per week with the language to develop native-like proficiency. Hours of input may be particularly restricted once the heritage speaker switches to the dominant language.\n\nCross-linguistic influence may contribute to heritage speakers' competence divergence. Heritage language learners show a tendency to overuse grammatical properties that are found in both the heritage language and the dominant language. Furthermore, heritage language learners may prefer grammatical structures from the dominant language and transfer them into the heritage language. To learn more about language transfer in bilingual individuals, see Crosslinguistic influence.\n\nThere are many theories across disciplines that seek to explain the relationship between language and identity, but the existence of such a relationship is the common thread. For heritage language learners, when their native or heritage language is not treated as valuable in the classroom, this negatively affects their view of themselves and their mental health. Many minority language speakers’ children lose the ability to speak the minority language once they enter the classroom, because of several detrimental factors discussed below. Heritage language learning may help these children regain or avoid losing the ability to communicate with their parents.\n\nWithout the ability to communicate with parents or other family members, it becomes difficult to create an identity intertwined with one's heritage culture. In fact, once the heritage language is lost, children may lose the cognitive ability to understand certain concepts or beliefs in their heritage culture. Those who lose the heritage language and choose not to actively maintain its use often assimilate into the dominant culture rather quickly. When heritage language learning does take place, the “standard” language is instructed, and learners whose heritage language is of a different dialect are judged for their variance from the standard. This results in a loss of self-esteem that makes strong self-identity difficult.\n\nOne group of heritage language learners includes international adoptees. Some parents that adopt internationally see heritage language learning as a necessary part of the adoptees connection with their own cultural identity, and choose to learn the heritage language along with their child. Though the language is not a heritage language for these parents, it is the language their child might have been brought up in and is a necessary part of “culture keeping,” or the act of purposefully ensuring the adopted child holds onto their birth culture.\n\nAnother sub-category of heritage language learners are mixed-heritage learners. Studies show that these individuals may have a confused sense of identity because they do not feel that they are fully accepted by either culture. Heritage language learning can be a way to help mixed-heritage individuals connect to the culture of their minority language parent, but these children face several obstacles in pursuing this language, as described in “Detrimental Factors to Heritage Language Learning.”\n\nFor all heritage language learners, Kondo-Brown suggests that proficiency is positively correlated to both a strong perception of heritage and ethnic identity and a strong community in one's ethnic group. Much research backs this claim. In a study of Japanese heritage language learners, Kondo-Brown found that individuals with one parent speaking the language performed much better in both grammatical knowledge, and various self-assessment tools than those without a parent speaking Japanese. Individuals in this same study with either one Japanese speaking grandparent, or only being of Japanese descent performed on the same level, below those with one Japanese speaking parent. Kondo-Brown attributes this difference to variance in sense of ethnic identity.\n\nHeritage language learning is generally an effort to recover one's cultural identity, and is therefore linked to the language loss experienced by immigrant and indigenous populations. Immigration and colonialism around the world have created communities of people who speak languages other than the dominant language at home. Their minority status means that they must navigate the effects of linguistic difference, and the expression of culture, ethnicity, and values through language. Heritage learners often cite a desire to connect with their cultural heritage as a major motivation for studying their heritage language. They may also be motivated by the global prominence and potential career advantages of some heritage languages. As both major immigrant destinations and exporters of the world's dominant language, the United States, Canada, Western Europe, and Australia are home to large populations of heritage language speakers. Indigenous populations in Australia and the Americas also teach their own languages as heritage languages, attempting to revitalize them after the effects of colonial occupation.\n\nThe distribution of immigrant languages around the world largely reflects immigration patterns; for example, Spanish and Chinese are more likely to be taught as heritage languages abroad. The language profile of a single immigrant community can also vary due to the presence of different dialects. This variation in dialects and even writing systems can be another obstacle in meeting community needs. Ebb and flow in a country's immigrant populations can also lead to significant variation in the abilities of heritage learners in a single classroom. A study conducted by the National Heritage Language Resource Center (UCLA) shows that in the United States, heritage speakers' interest in their home language tends to wane as they enter school, but may rise again in the later teenage years, prompting the decision to study it in college.\n\nThe study and teaching of indigenous heritage languages stands at odds with colonial governments' earlier attempts at forced cultural assimilation. The process of language loss accelerated by colonial policies and practices means that many indigenous languages are faced with the threat of extinction, and the effort to teach them as heritage languages intersects with broader language revitalization projects. While learners of immigrant languages are likely to have at least partial knowledge of their language from an early age, indigenous language learners may never have spoken their languages before they began learning them in a formal setting. Education in these languages is further complicated by social stigma, and the feelings of shame or inadequacy that some indigenous people may associate with their language due to colonial intervention. Adult speakers coming from a legacy such as that of Canada's residential schools (a project for assimilating indigenous peoples), whose negative psychological effects have been reported by Canada's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, may be unable or unwilling to pass their language on to their children.\n\nHeritage language learners have widely varying circumstances and educational needs that set them apart from foreign language learners. They may have little to no understanding of the language, or be able to speak but not read or write it. Formal education in heritage languages has existed since the nineteenth century, in immigrant communities and private and religious schools. Heritage languages did not attract the attention of public education and universities until the concept of heritage language itself began to emerge as a separate field from foreign language learning. Heritage languages are also referred to as community, ethnic, ancestral, minority, or non-official languages, but the term \"heritage language\" appears to have originated with Canadian programs of this type.\n\nWhen designing heritage language curricula and teaching methods, linguists and educators attempt to address the ways in which heritage learners are unique. In contrast to the teaching of foreign languages, heritage language teaching methods place more emphasis on literacy and experiential, content-based approaches. Because cultural identity is a definitive part of heritage language learning, languages are often taught alongside cultural practices. Teaching heritage languages is not limited to the classroom; it may be a part of other local community contexts, such as a volunteer work and internships, field trips, oral history projects, or Scout troops.\n\nOne question facing heritage language programs is the relationship of heritage language learners to foreign language learners of that same language. The two types of students have different educational, cultural, and psychological backgrounds, which can lead to uneven learning outcomes if they are taught together. Heritage language learners can be taught in entirely separate programs from foreign language learners, or in courses where different types of learners are integrated to varying degrees. They may also be taught alongside their foreign language counterparts with no distinction between them, as is usually the case in college language courses.\n\nAmerican immigrants often end their pursuit of heritage language learning after two or three generations in the United States, and it is now becoming more common to shift into English within two generations. The decision to end heritage language learning can stem from a variety of factors, but often includes societal pressure to use the dominant language. Some L2 speakers view the dominant language as superior or associate it with higher class society, and prefer it to their heritage language, or believe it will lead them to greater opportunity than their native tongue. Some parents discourage use of the heritage language in the home because of a fear that their children will have a harder time learning the dominant language if they are also learning another language. This belief is not supported by research. Research by Yan and Elena (as cited in Yilmaz 2016) showed better performance in bilinguals as compared to monolinguals in metalinguistic ability, pragmatics, and attention control. This and other research actually points to Cognitive advantages of bilingualism including greater cognitive ability and mental flexibility.\n\nPractical limitations to heritage language learning are also possible, and can include limited access to resources for heritage language learning, and limited materials in the heritage language. A combination of a social and practical limitation, classrooms may also discourage the use of minority languages by students during instruction.\n\nIn the sub-population of mixed-heritage learners, there may other stigmas that contribute to the loss of heritage language learning. If it is not widely accepted to marry outside of their culture, and individuals decide to do so anyhow, they may lose contact with their ethnic community upon marriage. This leaves them without access to a community of speakers in their heritage language. Their children now have little access to one parent’s native language, and little opportunity to pursue heritage language learning.\n\nAlthough heritage language learning can be important in many cases, the stakes are particularly high when the language is near extinction. In some cases, the active pursuit of heritage language learning is necessary to keep a minority languages alive, yet there may be limited learning materials and resources to do so. The language of the Cherokee people in North Carolina and in the Cherokee Nation in Oklahoma fits into this category. In these situations, it is also likely that there is limited access to social communities of native speakers to communicate with. Without this natural input as well as pedagogical input, speakers may not achieve the fluency needed to keep the language alive, and the minority language may be lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "28970655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28970655", "title": "Immigration and Intergenerational Mobility in Metropolitan Los Angeles", "text": "Immigration and Intergenerational Mobility in Metropolitan Los Angeles\n\nIIMMLA is a study that was supported by the Russell Sage Foundation. Since 1991, the Russell Sage Foundation has funded a program of research aimed at assessing how well the young adult offspring of recent immigrants are faring as they move through American schools and into the labor market. Two previous major studies have begun to tell us about the paths to incorporation of the children of contemporary immigrants: The Children of Immigrants Longitudinal Study (CILS), and the Immigrant Second Generation in New York study. The Immigration and Intergenerational Mobility in Metropolitan Los Angeles study is the third major initiative analyzing the progress of the new second generation in the United States. The Immigration and Intergenerational Mobility in Metropolitan Los Angeles (IIMMLA) study focused on young adult children of immigrants (1.5- and second-generation) in greater Los Angeles. IIMMLA investigated mobility among young adult (ages 20–39) children of immigrants in metropolitan Los Angeles and, in the case of the Mexican-origin population there, among young adult members of the third- or later generations. The five-county Los Angeles metropolitan area (Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura, Riverside and San Bernardino counties) contains the largest concentrations of Mexicans, Salvadorans, Guatemalans, Filipinos, Chinese, Vietnamese, Koreans, and other nationalities in the United States. The diverse migration histories and modes of incorporation of these groups made the Los Angeles metropolitan area a strategic choice for a comparison study of the pathways of immigrant incorporation and mobility from one generation to the next. The IIMMLA study compared six foreign-born (1.5-generation) and foreign-parentage (second-generation) groups (Mexicans, Vietnamese, Filipinos, Koreans, Chinese, and Central Americans from Guatemala and El Salvador) with three native-born and native-parentage comparison groups (third- or later-generation Mexican Americans, and non-Hispanic Whites and Blacks). The targeted groups represent both the diversity of modes of incorporation in the United States and the range of occupational backgrounds and immigration status among contemporary immigrants (from professionals and entrepreneurs to laborers, refugees, and unauthorized migrants). The surveys provide basic demographic information as well as extensive data about socio-cultural orientation and mobility (e.g., language use, ethnic identity, religion, remittances, intermarriage, experiences of discrimination), economic mobility (e.g., parents' background, respondents' education, first and current job, wealth and income, encounters with the law), geographic mobility (childhood and present neighborhood of residence), and civic engagement and politics (political attitudes, voting behavior, as well as naturalization and transnational ties).\n\n"}
{"id": "642885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=642885", "title": "Industry (archaeology)", "text": "Industry (archaeology)\n\nIn the archaeology of the Stone Age, an industry or technocomplex is a typological classification of stone tools. It is not to be confused with industrial archaeology, which concentrates on industrial sites from more recent periods.\n\nAn industry consists of a number of lithic assemblages, typically including a range of different types of tools, that are grouped together on the basis of shared technological or morphological characteristics. For example, the Acheulean industry includes hand-axes, cleavers, scrapers and other tools with different forms, but which were all manufactured by the symmetrical reduction of a bifacial core producing large flakes. Industries are usually named after a type site where these characteristics were first observed (e.g. the Mousterian industry is named after the site of Le Moustier). By contrast, Neolithic axeheads from the Langdale axe industry were recognised as a type well before the centre at Great Langdale was identified by finds of debitage and other remains of the production, and confirmed by petrography (geological analysis). The stone was quarried and rough axe heads were produced there, to be more finely worked and polished elsewhere.\n\nAs a taxonomic classification of artefacts, industries rank higher than archaeological cultures. Cultures are usually defined from a range of different artefact types and are thought to be related to a distinct cultural tradition. By contrast, industries are defined by basic elements of lithic production which may have been used by many unrelated human groups over tens or even hundred thousands of years, and over very wide geographical ranges. Sites producing tools from the Acheulean industry stretch from France to China, as well as Africa. Consequently, shifts between lithic industries are thought to reflect major milestones in human evolution, such as changes in cognitive ability or even the replacement of one human species by another. Therefore, artefacts from a single industry may come from a number of different cultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "37142189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37142189", "title": "Iron Man (Buddhist statue)", "text": "Iron Man (Buddhist statue)\n\nThe Iron Man statue is a , sculpture depicting what could be the Buddhist deity Vaiśravaṇa that may be made from a rare ataxite class nickel-rich iron meteorite. It is claimed to be Tibetan and to have been carved circa 1000 CE, from a meteorite that fell to Earth approximately 15,000 years ago, although no evidence for this claim has been provided. Albeit claims that the statue may have been acquired by the 1938–1939 German expedition to Tibet, evidence of the statue's provenance has not been presented to date. The statue was kept in a private collection in Germany until it is said to have been auctioned in 2007. The figure is adorned with a counterclockwise-rotation Buddhist swastika.\n\nThe material has been dated to the time of the Chinga meteorite, which fell near eastern Siberia and Mongolia between 10,000 and 20,000 years ago. The researcher who had determined the statue's composition has said, \"If we are right that it was made in the Bon culture in the eleventh century, it is absolutely priceless and absolutely unique worldwide.\"\n\nGeneral features on the statue still raise doubts about its true nature and origin. There are doubts that this statue was created in Tibet or that it could be related to Buddhist beliefs. Even the authors of the meteorite theory express several concerns and remark that their assessment of it being carved in the eleventh century is mere speculation. On what relates to Schaefer expedition, as yet, there are no clear and independent references linking this statue to it. The authors of the article on the meteoric origin of the iron just state, \"to our knowledge\".\n\nSome suspect this is a well elaborated forgery, specially when comparing features on cloth and the supposed deity it represents.\n\nAfter initial hype, several media noted that this statue is not present on the list of items brought to Germany by the expedition, which is deemed to be \"very precise\".\n\nIf the statue is somehow genuine, the nearest possible resemblance to a national dress would be Scythian. Not all details fit such resemblance, however, such as the remarkable double sleeved coat that fails to be associated with examples of Scythian clothing and the distinctive cut cuff of the pant legs. It shall be noted that certain groups of Scythians (Indo-Scythians/Sakas 200BC-400CE) were influenced by Buddhism and their kingdoms bordered modern Tibet on the west. While the last remains of a Scythian state vanished in the fifth century, pockets, in the form of tribes, may have survived in the Himalayas up to the tenth century. This may go well with assumptions made about the possible date of the statue's carving and even give ground to the hypothesis on the origin of primary material, but, with all contradictory features and the vague details of its \"discovery\", it is hard to accept this object as anything more than a source for wild speculations.\n\nA photograph of the statue is published with a \"Science Daily\" article that discusses the statue without any mention of the controversy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1225431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1225431", "title": "Isaac Fanous", "text": "Isaac Fanous\n\nIsaac Fanous (; December 19, 1919 – January 14, 2007) was an Egyptian artist and scholar, who specialized in Coptic art and founded its contemporary school.\n\nFanous was born in Al-Minya and moved to Cairo to gain his degree from The Faculty of Applied arts now part of Helwan University in Egypt in 1941 and got a diploma in teaching in 1943.\nFanous was one of the first students of the Institute of Coptic Studies founded in 1954 and he obtained his doctorate in 1958 . His two-year study grant in the Louvre in the mid- 1960s was a turning point in his career. He took the opportunity, while in France, to study icon painting under Léonid Ouspensky, under whose patronage he developed a passion both as artist and theologian. This would lead, eventually, to his developing a style that was to become the new face of Coptic iconography in the mid-20th century.\n\nFanous chaired the Coptic Art department at the Institute of Coptic Studies in Cairo, and he has trained a number of other Coptic artists from outside Egypt.\n\nAs wealthy patrons of the arts disappeared from Egypt's hitherto cosmopolitan art world following the 1952 revolution, they were replaced by the state, and the career of Fanous took off from the struggles and experiences of his time. That is to say, he became more keenly aware of his Egyptian heritage. He was proud of everything that comes from Al-Minya since the time of Akhnaten, who built his city in this area.\n\nFor centuries before painters like Isaac Fanous the Coptic Orthodox church had its own style which is recognised as The Coptic style. Under the influence of the European art spread to Egypt in the nineteenth Century there are a lot of the Churches in Egypt which have Icons that are similar to a lot of the European (Western) Christianity Iconography style.\n\nFanous's contemporary school of icon painting came about as part of a general renaissance of Coptic culture which began during the patriarchate of Pope Cyril VI (1959–1971).\n\nHe capitalised on the already established Coptic style which could be seen in historic Coptic Churches, but in his own style which he developed over the years. \n\nThe style of his painting is called Modern Coptic style and as he was a pioneer in this field Fanous is considered the father of modern Coptic icon painting and the initiator of the modern renaissance in Coptic art.\n\nFanous drew all the pictures and icons in St. Takla Haymanot's Church in Alexandria, which was consecrated in 1969. Between 1977 and 1978, he spent six months in the UK to paint icons in St Mark's Coptic Orthodox church in Allen Street, Kensington, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464670", "title": "John Wesley Hardin", "text": "John Wesley Hardin\n\nJohn Wesley Hardin (May 26, 1853 – August 19, 1895) was an American Old West outlaw, gunfighter, and controversial folk icon. The son of a Methodist preacher, Hardin got into trouble with the law from an early age. He killed his first man at age 14, he claimed in self-defense.\n\nPursued by lawmen for most of his life, he was sentenced in 1877 at age 25 to 25 years in prison for murder. When he was sentenced, Hardin claimed to have killed 42 men but contemporary newspapers accounts attributed only 27 deaths to him. While in prison, Hardin studied law and wrote an autobiography. He was well known for wildly exaggerating or completely making up stories about his life. He claimed credit for many murders that cannot be corroborated.\n\nWithin a year of his release in 1894, Hardin was killed by John Selman in an El Paso saloon.\n\nHardin was born in 1853 near Bonham, Texas, to a Methodist preacher and circuit rider, James \"Gip\" Hardin, and Mary Elizabeth Dixson. He was named after John Wesley, the founder of the Methodist denomination of the Christian church. In his autobiography, Hardin described his mother as \"blond, highly cultured ... [while] charity predominated in her disposition.\" Hardin's father traveled over much of central Texas on his preaching circuit until he settled his family in Sumpter, Trinity County, Texas in 1859. There, Joseph Hardin established and taught at the school that John Hardin and his siblings attended. Hardin was the second surviving son of ten children.\n\nIn 1862, at age nine, Hardin tried to run away and join the Confederate army.\n\nIn 1867, while attending his father's school, Hardin was taunted by another student, Charles Sloter. Sloter accused Hardin of being the author of graffiti on the schoolhouse wall that insulted a girl in his class. Hardin denied writing the poetry, claiming in turn that Sloter was the author. Sloter charged at Hardin with a knife but Hardin stabbed him with his own knife, almost killing him. Hardin was nearly expelled over the incident.\n\nIn November 1868, when he was 15, Hardin challenged his uncle Holshousen's former slave, Major \"Maje\" Holshousen, to a wrestling match, which Hardin won. According to Hardin, the following day, Maje \"ambushed\" him as he rode past shouting at him and waving a stick. Hardin drew his revolver and shot Maje five times. Hardin wrote in his autobiography that he rode to get help for the wounded man, but he died three days later. Hardin further wrote that his father did not believe he would receive a fair hearing in the Union-occupied state (where more than a third of the state police were former slaves), so he ordered him into hiding. Hardin claimed that the authorities eventually discovered his location and three Union soldiers were sent to arrest him, at which time he \"chose to confront his pursuers\" despite having been warned of their approach by an older brother, Joseph:\n\nHardin knew he could not return home. As a fugitive, he traveled initially with outlaw Frank Polk in the Pisgah area of Navarro County, Texas. Polk had killed a man named Tom Brady, and a detachment of soldiers sent from Corsicana, Texas pursued the duo. Hardin escaped but the soldiers apprehended Polk and jailed him temporarily. Hardin also briefly taught school in Pisgah. While there, he claimed he shot a man's eye out to win a bottle of whiskey in a bet. Hardin also claimed that he and his cousin, \"Simp\" Dixon, encountered a group of soldiers and each killed a man. Allegedly, Hardin killed a black man in Leon County, Texas.\nOn January 5, 1870, Hardin was playing cards with Benjamin Bradley in Towash, Hill County, Texas. Hardin was winning almost every hand, which angered Bradley who threatened to \"cut out his liver\" if he won again. Bradley drew a knife and a six-shooter. Hardin said he was unarmed and excused himself but claims that later that night, Bradley came looking for him. Bradley allegedly fired a shot at Hardin and missed; Hardin drew both his pistols and returned fire, one shot striking Bradley in the head and the other in his chest. Dozens of people saw this fight, and from them there is a good record of how Hardin had used his guns. His holsters were sewn into his vest so that the butts of his pistols pointed inward across his chest. He crossed his arms to draw. Hardin claimed this was the fastest way to draw, and he practised every day. A man called \"Judge Moore\", who held Hardin's stakes of money and a pistol, but refused to give them up without Bradley's consent, later \"vanished\". Hardin eventually admitted killing two men in Hill County.\n\nAfter killing Bradley, Hardin claimed that when a posse of fifteen men came after him, he captured two of them and took a shotgun, two six-shooters, a rifle, and two derringers from his captives. He then ordered the two men to join the other members of the posse at Jim Page's and wait for him to come along-\"... I reckon they are waiting for me yet..\"\n\nLater that month, on January 20, in Horn Hill, Limestone County, Texas, Hardin claimed he killed a man in a gunfight after an argument at the circus. Less than a week after this incident, in nearby Kosse, Texas, Hardin was accompanying a prostitute home when they were accosted by her pimp, who demanded money. Hardin threw money on the ground and shot the would-be thief when he bent over to pick it up.\n\nIn January 1871, Hardin was arrested for the murder of the Waco, Texas city marshal, Laban John Hoffman. However, he denied having committed this crime. Following his arrest, he was held temporarily in a log jail in the town of Marshall, awaiting transfer to Waco for trial. While locked up, he bought a revolver from another prisoner. Two Texas state policemen, Captain Edward T. Stakes and an officer named Jim Smalley, were assigned to escort Hardin to Waco for trial. According to Hardin, they tied him on a horse with no saddle for the trip. While making camp along the way, Hardin escaped when Stakes went to procure fodder for the horses. He claims he was left alone with Smalley, who began to taunt and beat the then-17-year-old prisoner with the butt of a pistol. Hardin says he feigned crying and huddled against his pony's flank. Hidden by the animal, he pulled out a gun, fatally shot Smalley, and used his horse to escape. Hardin then claimed that while on the run he was \"arrested\" by three men named Smith, Jones, and Davis, but in Bell County, Texas he killed all three with their own guns after they became drunken and careless and escaped again.\n\nA Texas Historical Marker notes that in the 1870s Hardin hid out in the vicinity of Pilgrim, Texas. After the Bell County shootings, Hardin found refuge with his cousins, the Clements, who were then living in Gonzales in south Texas. They suggested he could make money by driving cattle to Kansas as a cowboy. Thinking he could get out of Texas long enough for his pursuers to lose interest, Hardin worked with his cousins, rustling cattle for Jake Johnson and Columbus Carol. Hardin writes that he was made trail boss for the herd. In February 1871, while the herd was being collected for the drive to Kansas, a freedman, Bob King, attempted to cut a beef cow out of the herd. When he refused to obey Hardin's demand to stop, Hardin hit him over the head with his pistol. That same month, Hardin may have wounded three Mexicans in an argument over a Three-card Monte card game, pistol-whipping one man over the head, shooting one man in the arm, and shooting the third man in the lung.\n\nWhile driving cattle on the Chisholm Trail to Abilene, Kansas, in the summer of 1871, Hardin is reputed to have fought Mexican vaqueros and cattle rustlers. Towards the end of the drive, a Mexican herd crowded in behind Hardin's and there was some trouble keeping the two herds apart. Hardin exchanged words with the man in charge of the other herd; both men were on horseback. The Mexican fired his gun at Hardin, putting a hole through Hardin's hat. Hardin found that his own weapon, a worn-out cap-and-ball pistol with a loose cylinder, would not fire. He dismounted and managed to discharge the gun by steadying the cylinder with one hand and pulling the trigger with the other. He hit the Mexican in the thigh. A truce was declared and both parties went their separate ways. However, Hardin borrowed a pistol from a friend and went looking for the Mexican, this time fatally shooting him through the head. A firefight between the rival camps ensued. Hardin claimed six vaqueros died in the exchanges (five of them reportedly shot by him) although this claim appears exaggerated—only three Mexican vaqueros were killed. Hardin also claimed to have killed two Indians in separate gunfights on the same cattle drive. The first instance was when an Indian tried to shoot an arrow at him on the South Canadian River. Hardin shot him and then had the body buried to avoid retribution from the man's tribe. The second incident, at Bluff Creek, Kansas, occurred when Indians wanted to collect a \"tax\" on the cattle. Hardin hit an Indian over the head who he claimed had stolen a silver bridle from him. He then forced a war party to flee after he shot a second Indian who had killed a beef cow.\n\nAfter arriving in Abilene, Hardin claimed that he and a companion named Pain got into an argument in a restaurant with an anti-Texan, which left Pain wounded in one arm and the stranger shot in the mouth by Hardin's bullet. Hardin fled Abilene to the Cottonwood Trail.\n\nOn July 4, 1871, a Texas trail boss named William Cohron, was killed on the Cottonwood Trail (40 miles south of Abilene) by an unnamed Mexican, who \"fled south\" and was subsequently killed by two cowboys in a Sumner County, Kansas, restaurant on July 20. Hardin admitted to being involved in the shooting of the Mexican.\n\nThe Bull's Head Tavern, in Abilene, Kansas, had been established as a partnership between ex-lawman Ben Thompson and gambler Phil Coe. The two entrepreneurs had painted a picture of a bull with a large erect penis on the side of their establishment as an advertisement. Citizens complained to Town Marshal \"Wild Bill\" Hickok. When Thompson and Coe refused his request to remove the bull, Hickok altered it himself. Infuriated, Thompson tried to incite his new acquaintance, Hardin, by exclaiming to him: \"He's a damn Yankee. Picks on Rebels, especially Texans, to kill.\" Hardin, then under the assumed name \"Wesley Clemmons\" (but better known to the townspeople by the alias \"Little Arkansaw\"), seemed to have had respect for Hickok, and replied, \"If Bill needs killing why don't you kill him yourself?\" Later that night, Hardin was confronted by Hickok, who told him that he was wearing guns in violation of town ordinance, and ordered to hand over his guns, which he did, but in a quite surprising way: Hardin reached down, picked his revolvers up from the holsters, and handed the guns to Wild Bill butts forward, then swiftly rolled them over in his hands and suddenly Wild Bill was staring right into the barrels. However, both men did back down. Hickok had no knowledge that Hardin was a wanted man, and he advised Hardin to avoid problems while in Abilene.\n\nHardin met up with Hickok again while on a cattle drive in August 1871. This time, Hickok allowed Hardin to carry his pistols into town - something he had never allowed others to do. For his part, Hardin (still using his alias) was fascinated by Wild Bill and reveled in being seen on intimate terms with such a celebrated gunfighter. Hardin alleged that when his cousin, Mannen Clements, was jailed for the killing of two cowhands Joe and Dolph Shadden in July 1871, Hickok – at Hardin's request – arranged for his escape.\n\nSoon afterwards on August 6, 1871, Hardin, his cousin Gip Clements, and a rancher friend named Charles Couger put up for the night at the American House Hotel after an evening of gambling. Clements and Hardin shared one room, with Couger in the adjacent room. All three had been drinking heavily. Sometime during the evening, Hardin was awakened by loud snoring coming from Couger's room. He first shouted several times for the man to \"roll over\" and then, irritated by the lack of response, drunkenly fired several bullets through the shared wall in an apparent effort to awaken him. Couger was hit in the head by the second bullet as he lay in bed, and was killed instantly. Although Hardin may not have intended to kill Couger, he had violated an ordinance prohibiting firing a gun within the city limits. Half-dressed and still drunk, he and Clements exited through a second-story window onto the roof of the hotel. He saw Hickok arrive with four policemen. \"Now, I believed,\" Hardin wrote, \"that if Wild Bill found me in a defenseless condition he would take no explanation, but would kill me to add to his reputation.\"<br> A newspaper reported, \"A man was killed in his bed at a hotel in Abilene, Monday night, by a desperado called Arkansas. The murderer escaped. This was his sixth murder.\" Hardin leapt from the roof into the street and hid in a haystack for the rest of the night. He then stole a horse and rode to the cow camp 35 miles outside town. Hardin claimed he ambushed lawman Tom Carson and two other deputies there. According to Hardin, he did not kill them but forced them to remove all their clothing and walk back to Abilene. Carson denied the incident ever took place. The next day, Hardin left for Texas, never to return to Abilene.\n\nThe incident earned Hardin a reputation as a man \"so mean, he once shot a man for snoring\". Years later, Hardin made a casual reference to the episode: \"They tell lots of lies about me,\" he complained. \"They say I killed six or seven men for snoring. Well, it ain't true. I only killed one man for snoring.\" Later, in his contradictory 1896 autobiography, Hardin completely omitted the \"snoring man\" from the story, as he related not only a wrong date (July 7 instead of August 6) but claimed the shooting was a case of self-defense, saying that the man he killed had first tried to stab him with a dirk and was a burglar who tried to make off with Hardin's pants.\n\nFollowing his escape, Hardin claimed to be involved in the following gunfights:\n\n\nIn early 1872, Hardin was in south-central Texas, in the area around Gonzales County. It was about this time that Hardin married Jane Bowen and started to keep regular company with her brother, cattle rustler Robert Bowen. While in the area, he also renewed acquaintance with some of his cousins who were allied with a local family, the Taylors (who had been feuding with the rival Sutton faction for several years).\n\nOn August 7, 1872, Hardin was wounded by a shotgun blast in a gambling dispute at the Gates Saloon in Trinity, Texas. He was shot by Phil Sublett, who had lost money to him in a poker game. Two buckshot pellets penetrated Hardin's kidney and for a time it looked as if he would die.\n\nWhile recuperating from his wounds, Hardin decided he wanted to settle down. After surrendering to Sheriff Reagan (brother of John Henninger Reagan) of Cherokee County, Texas, he was wounded in the right knee by an accidental gunshot from a nervous deputy. Hardin made a sick-bed surrender to authorities, handing over his guns to Sheriff Reagan and asking to be tried for his past crimes in order \"to clear the slate\". However, when Hardin learned of how many murders Reagan was going to charge him with, he changed his mind. A relative smuggled a hacksaw to Hardin, who escaped after cutting through the bars of a prison window. In November 1872 Hardin escaped from the Gonzales County, Texas jail despite a guard of six men; a $100 reward was offered for his arrest.\n\nOn May 15, 1873, Jim Cox and Jake Christman were killed by the Taylor faction at Tomlinson Creek. Hardin, having by then recovered from the injuries sustained in Sublett's attack, admitted that there were reports that he had led the fights in which these men were killed, but would neither confirm nor deny his involvement: \"... but as I have never pleaded to that case, I will at this time have little to say.\"\n\nYet Hardin's main notoriety in the Sutton–Taylor feud came from his part in the killing of two lawmen known to be Sutton family allies. In Cuero, Texas, on May 17, 1873, Hardin killed DeWitt County Deputy Sheriff J.B. Morgan, who served under County Sheriff Jack Helm (a former captain in the Texas State Police and leader of the Sutton force at that time). Later that day, Hardin killed Helm in the town square of Albuquerque, Texas. On the run again in June 1873, Hardin assisted in the escape of his brother-in-law Joshua Bowen from the Gonzales County, Texas jail where he was imprisoned on an 1872 murder charge. Allegedly, Hardin was also involved in this killing of Thomas Holderman.\n\nThe Sutton–Taylor feud intensified when Jim and Bill Taylor gunned down Billy Sutton and Gabriel Slaughter as they waited on a steamboat platform in Indianola, Texas, on March 11, 1874. Tired of the feuding, the two were planning to leave the area for good. Hardin admitted that he and his brother, Joseph, had been involved (along with both Taylors) in the killings.\n\nAfter a brief visit to Florida where he claimed to have been involved in three incidents against Negroes, including a lynching, Hardin met with his wife, Jane, and their young daughter, with whom he had relocated under the assumed name \"Swain\". Hardin then met up with his \"gang\" on May 26, 1874, in a Comanche saloon to celebrate his 21st birthday. Hardin spotted Brown County Deputy Sheriff Charles Webb entering the premises. He asked Webb if he had come to arrest him. When Webb replied he had not, Hardin invited him into the hotel for a drink. As Webb followed him inside, Hardin claimed he drew his gun. One of Hardin's men yelled out a warning, and in the ensuing gunfight, Webb was shot dead. It was reported at the time that Webb was shot as he was pulling out an arrest warrant for one of Hardin's group. Two of Hardin's accomplices in the shooting were cousin Bud Dixon and Jim Taylor.\n\nThe death of the popular Webb resulted in the quick formation of a lynch mob. Hardin's parents and wife were taken into protective custody, while his brother Joe and two cousins, brothers Bud and Tom Dixon, were arrested on outstanding warrants. A group of local men broke into the jail in July 1874 and hanged Joe, Bud, and Tom. After this, Hardin and Jim Taylor parted ways for good. Hardin would claim that he twice drove away men connected to the feud who had come after him, killing a man in each encounter. On November 18, 1875, the leader of the Suttons, ex-Cuero Texas Town Marshal Reuben Brown was shot and killed by five men in Cuero along with a negro named Tom Freeman and another negro was wounded. In his autobiography Hardin made only two references to Brown: that \"Rube\" Brown had arrested William Taylor before sending him to Galveston, Texas for trial, and that Brown had been among the leaders of a Sutton \"posse\" that had been out to \"get\" him in Gonzales County, Texas. It is not known if Hardin was directly or indirectly involved in the killing of Reuben Brown as he makes no further mention of the incident in his life story.\n\nOn January 20, 1875, the Texas Legislature authorized Governor Richard B. Hubbard to offer a $4,000 reward for Hardin's arrest. An undercover Texas Ranger named Jack Duncan intercepted a letter sent to Hardin's father-in-law by his brother-in-law, Joshua Robert \"Brown\" Bowen. The letter mentioned that Hardin was hiding out on the Alabama-Florida border using the name \"James W. Swain\". In his autobiography, Hardin admitted that he had \"adopted\" this alias from Brenham, Texas Town Marshal Henry Swain who had married a cousin of Hardin's named Molly Parks.\n\nIn March 1876 Hardin wounded a man in Florida who had tried to mediate a quarrel between him and another man. In November 1876 Hardin was arrested briefly for having marked cards in Mobile, Alabama. Two former slaves of his father's, \"Jake\" Menzel and Robert Borup, tried to capture Hardin in Gainesville, Florida in mid-1877. Hardin killed one and blinded the other.\n\nOn August 24, 1877, Rangers and local authorities confronted Hardin on a train in Pensacola, Florida. He attempted to draw a .44 Colt cap-and-ball pistol but it got caught up in his suspenders. The officers knocked Hardin unconscious. They arrested two of his companions and Ranger John B. Armstrong killed a third, a man named Mann, who had a pistol in his hand. Hardin claimed that he was captured while smoking his pipe and Duncan only found Hardin's pistol under his shirt after his arrest.\n\nHardin was tried for Webb's killing, and on June 5, 1878, was sentenced to serve 25 years in Huntsville Prison. In 1879, Hardin and 50 other convicts were stopped within hours of successfully tunneling into the prison armory. Hardin made several attempts to escape. During his prison term, on February 14, 1892, he was convicted of another manslaughter charge for the earlier shooting of J.B. Morgan and given a two-year sentence to be served concurrently with his unexpired 25-year sentence.\n\nHardin eventually adapted to prison life. While there, he read theological books, becoming the superintendent of the prison Sunday School, and studied law. He was plagued by recurring poor health, especially when the wound he had received from Sublett became re-infected in 1883, causing him to be bedridden for almost two years. In 1892, Hardin was described as 5 feet 9 inches tall and 160 pounds, with a fair complexion, hazel eyes, dark hair, and wound scars on his right knee, left thigh, right side, hip, elbow, shoulder, and back. During Hardin's stay in prison, his first wife, Jane, died, on November 6, 1892.\n\nWhile in prison, he wrote an autobiography. He was well known for wildly exaggerating or completely making up stories about his life. He claimed credit for many murders that cannot be corroborated. Hardin wrote that he was first exposed to violence in 1861 when he saw a man named Turner Evans stabbed by John Ruff. Evans died of his injuries and Ruff was jailed. Hardin wrote, \"... Readers you see what drink and passion will do. If you wish to be successful in life, be temperate and control your passions; if you don't, ruin and death is the result.\"\n\nHardin was released from prison on February 17, 1894, having served seventeen years of his twenty-five-year sentence. He was forty years old when he returned to Gonzales, Texas. Later that year, on March 16, Hardin was pardoned, and, on July 21, he passed the state's bar examination, obtaining his license to practice law. According to a newspaper article in 1900, shortly after being released from prison, Hardin committed negligent homicide when he made a $5 bet that he could \"at the first shot\" knock a Mexican man off the soap box on which he was \"sunning\" himself, winning the bet and leaving the man dead from the fall and not the gunshot.\n\nOn January 9, 1895, Hardin married a 15-year-old girl named Callie Lewis. The marriage ended quickly, although it was never legally dissolved. Afterward, Hardin moved to El Paso, Texas.\n\nAn El Paso lawman, John Selman, Jr., arrested Hardin's acquaintance and part-time prostitute, the \"widow\" M'Rose (or Mroz), for \"brandishing a gun in public\". Hardin confronted Selman and the two men argued. Some accounts state that Hardin pistol-whipped the younger man. Selman's 56-year-old father, Constable John Selman, Sr. (himself a notorious gunman and former outlaw), approached Hardin on the afternoon of August 19, 1895, and the two men exchanged heated words. That night, Hardin went to the Acme Saloon, where he began playing dice. Shortly before midnight, Selman Sr. entered the saloon, walked up to Hardin from behind, and shot him in the head, killing him instantly. As Hardin lay on the floor, Selman fired three more shots into him. Selman Sr. was arrested for murder and stood trial. He claimed self-defense, stating that he witnessed Hardin attempting to draw his pistol upon seeing him enter the saloon, and a hung jury resulted in his being released on bond, pending retrial. However, before the retrial could be organized, Selman was killed in a shootout with US Marshal George Scarborough on April 6, 1896, during an argument following a card game.\n\nHardin was buried the following day in Concordia Cemetery, in El Paso.\n\nA century later, on August 27, 1995, there was a confrontation between two groups at the site of Hardin's grave. One group, representing several of Hardin's great-grandchildren, sought to relocate his body to Nixon, Texas, to be interred next to the grave of his first wife, Jane. The other group, consisting of locals from El Paso, sought to prevent the move. At the cemetery, the group representing Hardin's descendants presented a disinterment permit for the body, while the El Pasoans presented a court order prohibiting its removal. Both sides accused the other parties of seeking the tourist revenue generated by the location of the body. A subsequent lawsuit ruled in favor of keeping the body in El Paso.\n\nHardin had numerous confirmed clashes with the law:\n\n\n\nHardin's autobiography is filled with statements which cannot be confirmed independently from his book:\n\n\nThe memorable circumstances and sheer number of Hardin's life events, real or exaggerated, made him a legend of the Old West and an icon of American folklore. His autobiography was published posthumously in 1925 by Bandera publisher, historian, and journalist J. Marvin Hunter, founder of \"Frontier Times\" magazine and the Frontier Times Museum.\n\nHardin's weapons of choice, and several of his personal effects, have been well documented and auctioned to private collectors. Court records show that John Wesley Hardin carried a Colt \"Lightning\" revolver at the time of his death. He also carried an Elgin watch when he was shot and killed. The revolver and the watch had been presented to Hardin in appreciation for his legal efforts on behalf of Jim Miller at Miller's trial for the killing of ex-sheriff George \"Bud\" Frazer. The Colt, with a .38-caliber, \" barrel, is nickel-plated, with blued hammer, trigger, and screws. It features mother-of-pearl grips, and the back-strap is hand-engraved \"J.B.M. TO J.W.H.\". This gun and its holster were once sold at auction for $168,000. Another Colt revolver (known as a .41-caliber \"Thunderer\"), which was owned by Hardin and used by him to rob the Gem Saloon, was sold at the same auction for $100,000.\n\nIn 2002, an auction house in San Francisco, California, auctioned three lots of John Wesley Hardin's personal effects. One lot containing a deck of his playing cards, one of his business cards, and a contemporary newspaper account of his death, sold for $15,250. The bullet that killed Hardin sold for $80,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13212778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13212778", "title": "Kazimierz Palace", "text": "Kazimierz Palace\n\nThe Kazimierz Palace () is a rebuilt palace in Warsaw, Poland. It is adjacent to the Royal Route, at \"Krakowskie Przedmieście 26/28\".\n\nOriginally built in 1637-41, it was first rebuilt in 1660 for King John II Casimir (, from whom it takes its name) and again in 1765-68, by Domenico Merlini, for the Corps of Cadets established by King Stanisław II Augustus.\n\nSince 1816, the Kazimierz Palace has served intermittently as the seat of Warsaw University (which was closed by the Russian Imperial authorities after each Uprising on the part of their Polish subjects, and in 1939-44 by the Germans).\n\nThe Kazimierz Palace was erected in 1637-41 for King Władysław IV in the mannerist-early Baroque style as a \"villa suburbana\" (suburban villa) christened the \"Villa Regia\" (Latin for \"Royal Villa\"), to the design of Italian architect Giovanni Trevano. It was constructed as a rectangular building with corner towers, a type of residence known as \"Poggio–Reale - Serlio\" after the Villa Poggio Reale in Naples.\n\nThe \"Villa Regia\" had a magnificent loggia at its garden facade, with a wonderful view of the Vistula River and its opposite, Praga bank. It had four alcoves and two gardens — a flower garden at the front, and a botanical garden at the rear. Both gardens were adorned with sculptures that had been procured by royal architect Agostino Locci. Some had been purchased in Florence for 7,000 guldens, others had been produced in Prague by Adrien de Vries. According to Adam Jarzębski, they had included a \"Hercules Fighting the Centaur Nessus\" and a \"Horse Bitten by a Snake\". Another feature of the gardens was a large arbor where initially the Fleming royal painter Christian Melich had his studio, but which was later selected by Queen Marie Louise Gonzaga as the venue for her literary salon.\n\nThe palace had rich furnishings, with Venetian-style gilded ceilings (surviving examples of such ceilings in Poland may be seen at the Bishop's Palace in Kielce) and brown Chęciny and black Dębnik marble portals. In the 1650s, sculptor Giovanni Francesco Rossi created profuse Roman-Baroque-style marble decorations, with busts of Roman emperors and of King John II Casimir and Queen Marie Louise Gonzaga (today displayed at Gripsholm Castle in Sweden). These decorations were so precious that during the Swedish Deluge Sweden's King Charles X Gustav ordered the very window frames pulled out and transported to Sweden.\n\nThe \"Villa Regia\" had a large concert hall, decorated with an oil-painted plafond depicting St. Cecilia, patron saint of music and of Queen Cecila Renata, where the Royal Cappella Vasa gave frequent concerts, and a large collection of ancient sculptures which would be plundered during the Deluge by Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg, and taken to Berlin; while the garden sculptures were taken to Sweden. Then, having been plundered, the palace was burned.\nFollowing the devastations wrought by the Deluge, the \"Villa Regia\" was rebuilt twice, in 1652 and 1660, to designs by Izydor Affait or Titus Livius Burattini, and came to be called the \"Kazimierz Palace\" for King John II Casimir, who favored it as a residence.\n\nAbandoned in 1667, the palace later became the property of King John III Sobieski. In 1695, the building was totally destroyed by fire.\n\nAbout 1724, the property's ownership was transferred to King Augustus II. In this period were constructed an entrance gate at \"Krakowskie Przedmieście\" and eight barracks set perpendicularly to the palace façade.\nIn 1735, the palace became the property of Count . A brickworks, a stove factory and a brewery were established here, and in 1737-39 he rebuilt the palace, probably to a rococo design by Johann Sigmund Deybel and Joachim Daniel von Jauch. The palace was enlarged and covered with mansard roofs. The central portion of the building was adorned with a bulbous top bearing a clock and an eagle.\n\nIn 1765, ownership was transferred to King Stanisław II August, who located the Corps of Cadets here following interior redesigns by Domenico Merlini. From 1769, the famous newspaper sponsored by the King, the \"Monitor\", was printed in an establishment housed in an outbuilding of the palace. On April 5, 1769, the patriotic play \"Junak\" was presented on a Cadet Corps stage in the palace.\n\nIn 1794, after the suppression of the Kościuszko Uprising, the Corps of Cadets was closed down.\n\nIn 1814, a fire destroyed the barracks before the palace, and in 1816 their place was taken initially by two side pavilions designed by Jakub Kubicki. That same year, the palace became the seat of Warsaw University. Concurrently, in 1817-31, it also housed the Warsaw Lyceum, a secondary school where Frédéric Chopin's father taught French and whose alumni included young Chopin himself.\n\nThe years 1818-22 saw expansion by two pavilions parallel to \"Krakowskie Przedmieście\", designed by Michał Kado. In 1824, the palace was thoroughly rebuilt in the classicist style to the design probably of Hilary Szpilowski and Wacław Ritschel. About 1820, two further pavilions, a northern and a southern one, arose at the palace building itself.\nIn 1840-41, the next pavilion was built, designed by Antonio Corazzi, originally to be a secondary school and later serving as the seat of the \"Main School\" (i.e., Warsaw University). About 1863, the pavilions were rebuilt to designs by Antoni Sulimowski.\n\nIn 1891-94, in the yard between the palace and the \"Krakowskie Przedmieście\" gate, a library building was erected to a design by Antoni Jabłoński-Jasieńczyk and Stefan Szyller, and in 1910 a new \"Krakowskie Przedmieście\" gate was built. In 1929-31, the library building was rebuilt, and in 1930, the \"Auditorium Maximum\" building was erected to a design by Aleksander Bojemski. \n\nDuring World War II, the Kazimierz Palace was destroyed, along with other Warsaw University buildings. It suffered during both the 1939 defense of Warsaw and the 1944 Warsaw Uprising. After the war, in 1945-54, the palace was rebuilt to a design by Piotr Biegański. The reconstruction of the whole campus was finally completed in 1960.\n\nThe Kazimierz Palace currently houses the Warsaw University rectorate, as well as the Museum of the History of Warsaw University. Since the building's revitalization in 2006 (partly with European Union funds), the building is one of the most attractive on Warsaw's Royal Route.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1621411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621411", "title": "Lansdowne portrait", "text": "Lansdowne portrait\n\nThe Lansdowne portrait is an iconic life-size portrait of George Washington painted by Gilbert Stuart in 1796. It depicts a 64-year-old Washington in his last year as President of the United States. Stuart painted the Lansdowne portrait, three copies of it, and five portraits that were closely related to it. The most famous copy is the one in the East Room of the White House.\n\nTo preclude its possible sale at auction, the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. purchased the original painting in 2001, for (the amount is rumored to be,)\n$2,000,000\nThe Lansdowne portrait likely (and fancifully) depicts President Washington's December 7, 1795 annual address to the Fourth U.S. Congress. The highly-unpopular Jay Treaty, settling claims between the United States and Great Britain left over from the Revolutionary War, had been presented for approval to the U.S. Senate earlier in the year. The Senate held a special session to debate the treaty in June, at which opposition to it had been fierce. Exactly two-thirds of the 30 senators (the minimum required under the U.S. Constitution) approved the treaty in mid-August, and Washington, who strongly supported the treaty, signed it in late August. The President's annual address was on the first day of the next session of Congress. Washington acknowledged the struggle over the treaty and called for unity. The portrait's paper, pen and inkwell may allude to his signing of the treaty. There was lingering resentment in the House of Representatives, which expressed its displeasure by declining to appropriate funding for the treaty's implementation until April 1796.\n\nIn England, the Lansdowne portrait was celebrated as Washington's endorsement of the Jay Treaty:\n\nThe portrait presented by the President to the Marquis of Lansdowne is one of the finest pictures we have seen since the death of Reynolds. The dress he wears is plain black velvet; he has his sword on, upon the hilt of which one hand rests while the other is extended, as the figure is standing and addressing the Hall of Assembly. The point of time is that when he recommended inviolable union between America and Great Britain.\n\nThe December 7, 1795 address was the last that President Washington delivered to Congress \"in person\". The following year he published his Farewell Address in the newspapers, rather than delivering it to Congress.\n\nLord Lansdowne – who as British Prime Minister had secured a peaceful end to the Revolutionary War – commissioned Stuart to paint a portrait of George Washington. Stuart lived in England and Ireland for eighteen years, and Lansdowne may have placed the order for a portrait prior to the artist's return to the United States in early 1793. Stuart lived and worked in New York City for a year and a half before moving to Philadelphia in November 1794. He informed his uncle in Philadelphia of his upcoming arrival: \"The object of my journey is only to secure a picture of the President, & finish yours.\"\n\nPhiladelphia served as the temporary national capital from 1790 to 1800 – while Washington, D.C. was under construction. Stuart was introduced to the President in December 1794, at one of Mrs. Washington's Friday evening \"drawingrooms.\" But it was not until the following fall that Washington granted him a sitting. Meanwhile, Stuart gathered orders for portraits—among his papers is a document titled: \"A list of gentlemen who are to have copies of the portrait of the President of the United States.\" and dated: \"Philadelphia. April 20th, 1795.\" Lord Lansdowne's name was third on the list of thirty-two subscribers.\n\nAccording to Rembrandt Peale, President Washington granted a joint sitting to Stuart and him \"in the Autumn of 1795.\" Stuart was not wholly satisfied with the resulting \"Vaughan-style\" portrait, but still painted between twelve and sixteen copies of it. He later claimed to have destroyed his original. While visiting London a decade earlier, Senator William Bingham of Pennsylvania and his wife, Anne Willing Bingham, had sat for a family portrait by Stuart (abandoned). The artist may have approached Mrs. Bingham for assistance in getting the President to grant him another sitting:\n\nAccording to Rembrandt Peale, this was the only sitting that Washington granted for the Lansdowne portrait. It took place in Stuart's studio (and lodgings) in William Moore Smith's house, at 5th & Chestnut Streets. With severely limited time, Stuart was forced to concentrate on the President's head and face. There are multiple claims as to who posed for the body of the figure, including his landlord, Smith.\n\nThe portrait was begun by Stuart in his Philadelphia studio and completed in his Germantown studio, the second floor of a stable some 8 miles north of the city. The artist moved to Germantown in Summer 1796 to avoid distractions. The Binghams had enjoyed Lord Lansdowne's hospitality in London, and persuaded Stuart to allow them to pay for the portrait. Stuart completed the Lansdowne portrait by the fall of 1796, and Senator Bingham paid his fee of $1,000. Bingham had an ornate frame made for it, and arranged for it to shipped to England in late November. Lord Lansdowne had received the portrait by March 5, 1797, when he mentioned it in a letter. Lansdowne's letter of thanks to Mrs. Bingham survives, but is undated:\n\nA very fine portrait of the greatest man living in a magnificent frame found its way into my hall, with no one thing left for me to do regarding it, except to thank the amiable donor of it. It is universally approv'd and admir'd, and I see with satisfaction, that there is no one who does not turn away from every thing else, to pay their homage to General Washington. Among many circumstances which contribute to enhance the value of it, I shall always consider the quarter from whence it comes as most flattering, & I look forward with the greatest pleasure to the time of shewing you and Mr. Bingham where I have plac'd it.\n\nStuart's first copy of the portrait was for the Binghams (now at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts), and would have been completed before the original left his studio. The President and First Lady visited Germantown on January 7, 1797: \"Road [rode] to German Town with Mrs. Washington to see Mr. Stuarts paintings.\" The Bingham copy was still in the studio on July 27, 1797, when Robert Gilmor Jr. viewed it. The William Kerin Constable copy (now at the Brooklyn Museum) was completed that same month. The Gardiner Baker copy (now at the White House) is presumed to have been the copy commissioned by Charles Cotesworth Pinckney in September 1796, likely as a diplomatic gift to France; and resold by Stuart to Baker by December 1797.\n\nAfter the death of Lord Lansdowne, his pictures were sold by auction. The \"Washington\" was purchased by Samuel Williams, an English merchant, for $2,000. Williams subsequently became insolvent, and his creditors disposed of the \"Washington\" by a lottery. Forty tickets were sold, at fifty guineas each. The picture fell to Mr. J. Delaware Lewis, a nephew of Mr. William D. Lewis, of Philadelphia. But few Americans had ever seen the picture, and Mr. William D. Lewis, who was Chairman of the Committee on Art, obtained the loan of it from his nephew for the Centennial Exhibition. It was sent out with the loan collection from England, unpacked at Memorial Hall, and hung up in the British section before its arrival was known to the Fine Arts Committee. An effort was subsequently made to have it transferred to the American section, but it was unsuccessful. At the close of the Exhibition, it was returned to its owner in England.\n\n\nThe painting is full of symbolism, drawn from American and ancient Roman symbols of the Roman Republic. Stuart painted Washington from life, showing him standing up, dressed in a black velvet suit with an outstretched hand held up in an oratorical manner. Behind Washington is a row of two Doric columns, with another row to the left. Wrapped around and between the columns are red tasseled drapes.\n\nWashington's suit is plain and simple, and the sword he holds on his left side is a dress sword and not a battle sword (symbolizing a democratic form of government, rather than a monarchy or military dictatorship). In the sky, storm clouds appear on the left while a rainbow appears on the right, signifying the American Revolutionary War giving way to the peace and prosperity of the new United States after the 1783 Treaty of Paris. The medallion at the top of the chair shows the red, white, and blue colors of the American flag.\n\nOn and under the tablecloth-draped table to the left are two books: \"Federalist\"—probably a reference to the \"Federalist Papers\"—and \"Journal of Congress\"—the \"Congressional Record\". Another five books are under the table: the three to the right are \"General Orders\", \"American Revolution\", and \"Constitutional Bylaws\"—symbolizing Washington's leadership as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army and president of the Constitutional Convention.\n\nThe pen and paper on the table signify the rule of law. The table's leg is shaped like a fasces, an ancient Roman symbol of power and authority (\"imperium\"). On the far left of the table is a silver inkwell, emblazed with George Washington's coat of arms (see Syng inkstand). A white quill rests upon silver dogs, ancient symbols of loyalty. Behind these on the table is a large black hat.\n\nWashington's unusually clenched facial expression comes from his famous false teeth. Jean-Antoine Houdon's marble sculpture of Washington shows a more natural expression. Stuart wrote: \"When I painted him [Washington], he had just had a set of false teeth inserted, which accounts for the constrained expression so noticeable about the mouth and lower part of the face ... Houdon's bust does not suffer from this defect.\"\n\nStuart painted a 1797 seated portrait of Washington, based on the Lansdowne. William Kerin Constable, who commissioned the Lansdowne copy now at the Brooklyn Museum, also commissioned the seated version. Constable presented it to Alexander Hamilton in 1797. The portrait remained in the Hamilton family until 1896, when it was bequeathed to the Lenox Library. The Lenox Library later merged with the New York Public Library. The portrait was auctioned at Sotheby's NY, 30 November 2005, lot 3, and sold for $8,136,000. The Constable-Hamilton Portrait is now in the collection of the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, in Bentonville, Arkansas.\n\nStuart made several changes for the Munro-Lenox portrait (1800): Washington's head is slightly turned, and his hand is on the table, rather than gesturing into the air. The President looks directly at the viewer, rather than off to the side, which makes it a more compelling image than the Lansdowne. The head appears to be based on Stuart's Athenaeum portrait (the image on the one-dollar bill). The wall behind the President is lowered, allowing for a more dramatic scene of the sun breaking through the storm clouds. After 135 years of ownership by the New York Public Library, the Munro-Lenox portrait was deassessioned and offered for auction in 2005. It failed to sell at auction, and was sold in a private sale for an undisclosed amount.\n\nStuart painted three full-size copies of the Munro-Lenox Portrait, one for the Connecticut State House in Hartford; and two for Rhode Island—one for the State House in Providence, and the other for Old Colony House in Newport.\n\nThe Lansdowne and Munro-Lenox portraits were copied many times, and reproduced in widely circulated prints. William Winstanley (1775–1806), a British painter who had sold landscapes to President Washington, reportedly painted six full-size copies of the Lansdowne. During the 19th century, Jane Stuart (the artist's daughter) painted multiple copies of the Lansdowne in full and reduced sizes. Alonzo Chappel included elements of the Lansdowne in his 1860 seated portrait of Washington (Metropolitan Museum of Art).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53277319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53277319", "title": "Lorna Hardwick", "text": "Lorna Hardwick\n\nLorna Hardwick is professor emeritus of classical studies at the Open University. She is a leading authority on classical reception studies and has published several books and articles on the subject, as well being the first editor of the \"Classical Receptions Journal\".\n\nIn addition to teaching at the Open University, Hardwick has taught at University College London. Hardwick's publications in the field of classical reception include \"Translating Words, Translating Cultures\" (2000) and \"New Surveys in the Classics: Reception Studies\" (2003) as well as a number of articles on drama and poetry. She has a particular interest in the impact of various kinds of translation and adaptation on modern perceptions of Greece and Rome and in the reworking of classical material in post-colonial contexts (publications).\n\nFrom 2000–2005 Hardwick was subject director for classics and ancient history in the Higher Education Academy Subject Centre for History, Classics and Archaeology. From 2005 to 2007 she served as president of the Joint Association of Classical Teachers.\n\nShe is the editor of the \"Classical Receptions Journal\" and co-series editor of 'The Classical Presences series' published by Oxford University Press.\n\nIn 2014 she was a signatory in an open letter published in The Guardian expressing concern at the Open University's closure of regional offices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57764", "title": "Middle English creole hypothesis", "text": "Middle English creole hypothesis\n\nThe Middle English creole hypothesis is the concept that the English language is a creole, i.e. a language that developed from a pidgin. The vast differences between Old and Middle English have led some historical linguists to claim that the language underwent creolisation at around the time of the Norman Conquest.\nThe theory was first proposed in 1977 by C. Bailey and K. Maroldt and has since found both supporters and detractors in the academic world. Different versions of the hypothesis refer to creolisation through contact between Old English and Norman French, between Old English and Old Norse, or caused by large numbers of people switching from speaking British Celtic languages to speaking English. Some versions of the hypothesis actually propose multiple creolization events, with later ones reinforcing and broadening simplifications introduced by earlier ones.\n\nThe argument in favour of calling Middle English a creole comes from the extreme reduction in inflected forms from Old English to Middle English. The system of declension of nouns was radically simplified and analogized. The verb system also lost many old patterns of conjugation. Many strong verbs were reanalysed as weak verbs. The subjunctive mood became much less distinct. Syntax was also simplified somewhat, with word order patterns becoming more rigid.\nThese grammatical simplifications resemble those observed in pidgins, creoles and other contact languages, which arise when speakers of different languages need to communicate. Such contact languages usually lack the inflections of either parent language, or drastically simplify them. However, many say that English is probably not a creole because it retains a high number (283) of irregular verbs, just like other Germanic languages, a linguistic trait that is usually first to disappear among creoles and pidgins.\n\nIt is certain that Old English underwent grammatical changes, e.g. the collapse of all cases into genitive and common. However, the reduction of unstressed vowels to schwa, due to a fixed stress location, contributed to this process, a pattern that is common to many Germanic languages. The process of case collapse was also already under way in Old English, e.g. in strong masculine nouns, where the nominative and accusative cases had become identical. Thus the simplification of noun declension from Old English to Middle English may have had causes unrelated to creolization, although creolization may have caused the grammatical changes to occur more rapidly.\n\nEnglish has numerous French and Norman loanwords, borrowed mostly during the 14th century. English began to replace French as England's official national language by 1362 when, under Edward III, Parliament was addressed in English for the first time since the Norman Conquest of 1066.\n\nNevertheless, the Norman invasion had still resulted in the loss of many native Anglo-Saxon words. In fact, by the end of the period in which Middle English was spoken, as much as eighty percent of Old English vocabulary was no longer in use. However, the most striking Norse borrowing (their pronouns) cannot be attributed to creolisation. It was more likely a result of ambiguity between \"hiem\" and \"him\" etc.\n\nThe most common plural form in English is descended from the masculine nominative–accusative plural (Old English \"-as\") and is also cognate with the Old Saxon plural \"-os\" and the Old Norse plural \"-ar\". However, the widespread use of the \"-s\" plural may suggest French influence. No other Germanic language has just one pattern of regular plural formation: Dutch and Afrikaans have two, whereas German and Swedish have at least five (or more, depending on definition).\n\nFrench influence has affected English pronunciation as well. Whereas Old English had the unvoiced fricative sounds , , (as in thin), and (shin), French influence helped to distinguish their voiced counterparts , , (the), and (mirage), and also contributed the diphthong (boy). The combination of a largely French-speaking aristocracy and a largely English-speaking peasantry gave rise to many pairs of words with a Latinate word in the higher register and a Germanic word in the lower register (e.g., French \"poultry\" vs Germanic \"chicken\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22915261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22915261", "title": "Munsee grammar", "text": "Munsee grammar\n\nMunsee (also known as Munsee Delaware, Delaware, Ontario Delaware) is an endangered language of the Eastern Algonquian subgroup of the Algonquian language family, itself a branch of the Algic language family.\n\nThe grammar of Munsee is characterized by complex inflectional and derivational morphology. Inflection in Munsee is realized through the use of prefixes and suffixes added to word stems to indicate grammatical information, including number (singular or plural), gender, person, possession, negation, obviation, and others.\n\nNouns use combinations of person prefixes and suffixes to indicate possession, and suffixes to indicate gender, number, diminutive, absentative, and obviation.\n\nVerbs use a single set of person prefixes and a series of suffixes in position classes following the verb stem to indicate combinations of person, number, negation, obviation, and others.\n\nThere are three primary word classes in Munsee Delaware: Noun, Verb, and Particle. There are two subtypes of nouns: \"Animate\" and \"Inanimate. \" Pronouns in several subtypes can be considered subtypes of the Noun category. Several verbal subclasses are distinguished, with cross-cutting categorization for gender and transitivity defining the four major subclasses: \"Animate Intransitive, \" \"Inanimate Intransitive, \" \"Transitive Animate, \" and \"Transitive Inanimate. \" Other verb classes are derived from these primary classes: \"Transitivized Animate Intransitive,\" \"Double Object Transitive,\" and \"Objectless Transitive Inanimate,\" exemplified below. Particles are words that do not select for inflectional prefixes or suffixes.\n\nNouns are classified as either animate gender or inanimate gender. Animate nouns include all biologically animate entities, as well as some items not thought of as biologically animate. Gender is indicated on nouns by the selection of the plural inflectional suffix, /-al/ for inanimate nouns, and /-ak/ for animate nouns.\n\nGender is an inherent property of nouns, but is cross-referenced through agreement in several areas of Munsee grammar. In addition to being marked inflectionally in plural forms of nouns, gender is also selected for in the formation of verb stems; is marked in agreement in the inflection of verbs; and is realized in sets of pronouns.\nThe nature of the gender system has been a topic of debate. Some analysts have viewed the assignment of gender as arbitrary, while others view it as being semantically or culturally motivated; intermediate positions have also been proposed.\n\nNouns are inflected for plural number by selecting the appropriate plural suffix: \"ăsə́n \" 'stone' (Inanimate), \"ăsə́nal\" 'stones' (suffix /-al/); \"mwá·kane·w \" 'dog' (Animate), \"mwa·kané·wak \" 'dogs' (suffix /-ak/). There is no suffix for indicating singular.\n\nAnimate nouns in certain constructions may take an \"obviative\" ending, which does not distinguish singular or plural. The obviative distinguishes two third-person referents in certain syntactic and discourse contexts. In a sentence containing a transitive verb with both an animate third person grammatical subject and an animate third person grammatical object one of the two must be marked as obviative. Any animate third person element that is not obviative is \"proximate.\" There is no suffixal marking for proximate.\n\nAlthough the exact significance of the proximate versus obviative distinction has been disputed, a general view is that the proximate noun phrase is more in focus, while the obviative is less in focus or backgrounded.\n\nIn the following sentence the first word 'woman' is the grammatical object and is marked obviative with the suffix /-al/: \"oxkwé·wal wə̆ne·wá·wal lénəw\" 'the man sees the woman' (woman-obviative third-sees-third man-proximate). Obviation is also marked on the verb with the suffix /-al/. Obviation is only marked on Transitive Animate verbs, and there is no obviative marking on inanimate nouns or verbs.\n\nNouns may indicate the person and number of a possessor through combinations of personal prefixes and suffixes indicating plurality. The prefixes are (a) /nə-/ 'first person': \"nə̆máhksən\" 'my shoe'; /kə-/ 'second person': \"kə̆máhksən\" 'your shoe'; /wə-/ 'third person': \"wə̆náxk\" 'his hand.'\n\nNouns may indicate a locative with the locative suffix /-ənk/: \"wí·kwahm\" 'house,' \"wi·kwáhmənk\" 'in the house.'\n\nThe noun suffix /-əš/ adds the meaning 'small, cute' and other affective elements to a base noun: \"máxkw\" 'bear,' \"máxkwəš\" 'little bear.' Some words with the diminutive reflect a specialized meaning: \"wí·kwahm\" 'house' but \"wí·kwáhməš\" 'toilet, outhouse.'\n\nA small number of nouns reflect an older diminutive suffix /-əs/ which has lost its diminutive meaning: \"áxko·k\" 'snake' but with old diminutive suffix \"axkó·kəs\" 'insect.'\n\nNouns can be marked as referring to a person who is deceased, with a suffix /-aya/ 'third person' or /-ənkala/ 'obviative.' The use of the \"absentative\" in Munsee is restricted to deceased persons or kinship terms used to refer to deceased individuals \"ši·fšáya\" 'the late Cephas.' The Unami absentative has a broader range of use.\n\nVerb stems occur in pairs, distinguished by gender. Intransitive verbs select for an animate subject or an inanimate subject, and are referred to as Animate Intransitive: \"wá·psəw\" 's/he is white,' or Inanimate Intransitive: \"wá·pe·w\" 'it is white.'\n\nTransitive stems select for the gender of their object, and are referred to as either Transitive Animate: \"ntánha·w \" 'I lose him,' or Transitive Inanimate: \"ntaníhto·n \" 'I lose it.'\n\nIntransitive verbs inflect for their subject, agreeing in person, number and gender of the subject. Transitive verbs inflect for subject and object, agreeing in person, number, and gender of both subject and object. Transitive Animate verbs also agree for obviation.\n\nCertain Animate Intransitive verbs inflect for a secondary object making Transitivized Animate Intransitive verbs: \"náh ntəlá·he·n\" 'I threw it over there.' Morphologically, the verb stem /əla·he·-/ 'throw something in a certain direction or manner' has the structure of an Animate Intransitive verb, but is inflected for a third-person object.\n\nSimilarly, some Transitive Animate verbs inflect for a secondary object, forming ditransitive verbs, termed Double Object Transitive: \"nkəmó·tə̆ma·n\" 'I stole it from him.'\n\nCertain verbs, termed Objectless Transitive Inanimate, which have the morphological characteristics of verbs of the Transitive Inanimate class, occur without a grammatical object.\n\nSome Objectless Transitive Inanimate verbs also have corresponding Transitive Inanimate verbs.\n\n(a) \"no·le·lə́ntam\" 'I am glad.'\n\n(b) \"no·le·lə́ntamən\" 'I am glad about it.'\n\nOthers never have an object.\n\n(a) \"šántham\" 'he kicks out his legs.'\n\n(b) \"psə́m\" 'he has something in his eye.'\n\nVerbs are inflected in three subclasses referred to Orders. These correspond roughly to three major clause types: Independent Order, forming main clause statements and questions; Conjunct Order, forming dependent clauses; and Imperative Order, forming positive and negative commands.\n\nThe Orders are further divided into Modes: Independent Order: Indicative Mode, Subordinative Mode; Conjunct Order: Indicative, Changed Conjunct, Changed Subjunctive, Subjunctive, Participle; Imperative Order: Ordinary Mode, Prohibitive Mode. The Independent Order uses sets of inflectional prefixes and suffixes, while the Conjunct and Imperative Orders use sets of inflectional suffixes only.\n\nVerbs in the Independent Order Indicative Mode form statements and questions: \"mpə́ntawa·w\" 'I heard him'; \"kpə́ntawa·w há?\" 'Did you hear him?' (\"há\" is a particle used in the formation of yes-no questions).\n\nVerbs in the Independent Order Subordinative Mode form complements to certain verbs and to certain particles.\n\nThe Conjunct Order forms a variety of subordinate clause types. The Conjunct Indicative Mode is extremely rare, with only a few examples reported in Unami, and none in Munsee.\n\nThe Conjunct Order Changed Conjunct Mode occurs with a restricted set of roots either as part of the verb stem or a preverb, and refers to actually occurring events. The term 'changed' refers to Initial Change, a form of vowel ablaut occurring on the first syllable of a verb or verb complex.\n\n(a) \"ne·ltó·nhe·t\" 'as he was talking.'\n\n(b) \"é·nta- nxá -katənamə́ya·n\" \"when I was three (years old).'\n\n(c) \"é·ntxən-pə̆nó·lən\" 'every time I look at you.'\n\nThe Conjunct Order Changed Subjunctive combines the subjunctive suffix /-e/ with a changed form of a verb normally formed with the preverb /e·nta-/ 'when.' \n\n(a) \"é·nta-né·wăke\" 'when I saw him.'\n\n(b) \"náh we·má·ne\" 'when I left from there.'\n\nThe Conjunct Order Subjunctive Mode forms clauses referring to hypothetical situations. The subjunctive suffix /-e/ is added after the conjunct suffix.\n\n(a) \"moxkánke\" 'if he finds it.'\n\nThe Conjunct Order Participial Mode forms noun-like verbs in constructions resembling relative clauses, in which one of the arguments of the verb functions as the head of the phrase.\n\n(b) \"é·nta-né·wak\" 'where I saw him'\n\n(c) \"wé·nk\" 'he who comes from there'\n\nVerbs in the Imperative Order Ordinary Mode make commands of various types, in which the listener is directed to perform or undertake an act.\n\n(a) \"áhl\" 'put him down.'\n\n(b) \"áto·kw\" 'let's go.'\n\nThe Prohibitive Mode of the Imperative Orders makes verbs that forbid the commission of an act; they require the use of a prohibitive particle and a negative verbal suffix.\n\n(a) \"čí·le păkamá·wi\" 'don't hit him/them (you singular)'\n\n(b) \"čí· náh á·we·kw\" 'don't go there' (you plural)'\n\nVerbs of all types are inflected for negation, indicated with a combination of an independent negative particle and a negative suffix occurring as part of the verbal inflectional system.\n\n(a) Transitive Animate: \"nə̆móxkawa·w\" 'I found it,' \"máhta nə̆moxkawá·wi\" 'I didn't find it.'\n\n(b) Inanimate Intransitive: \"máxke·w\" 'it is red,' \"máhta maxké·wi\" 'it is not red.'\n\nA category of aspect, used in the Independent and Conjunct Orders, has been distinguished for both Munsee and Unami. The categories distinguished are \"Unspecified,\" \"Preterite,\" and \"Present.\" The unspecified has no morphological expression, and hence is equivalent to regularly inflected forms of the verb. In Munsee the preterite is extremely rare, and is attested primarily in earlier material, such as the following taken from Truman Michelson's field notes (the suffix /-p/ is the realization of the preterite suffix in this form):\n\n(a) \"nĕmi·lá·ne·p\" 'I gave it to him.'\n\nThe present aspect is attested primarily in forms with a counterfactual interpretation that is equivalent in meaning to the subjunctive. In this example the verb stem is /pa·-/ 'come,' with Conjunct Order third-person suffix /-t/ and Present suffix /-sa/.\n\n(a) \"yóh á· má pá·tsa\" 'if he had come here.'\n\nThere are two sets of demonstrative pronouns, proximal ('close by') and distal ('farther away'). Demonstratives are distinguished for gender, number, and obviation. In a phrase they agree with the head of the noun phrase or the noun they refer to. The proximal demonstrative pronouns include: \"wá\" 'this one (animate),' \"yó·k\" 'these ones (animate),' \"yə́\" 'this one (inanimate),' \"yó·l\" 'these ones (inanimate).' The distal pronouns include: \"na\"́ 'that one (animate),' \"né·k\" 'those ones (animate),' \"nə́\" 'that one (inanimate),' \"ní·l\" 'those ones (inanimate).' \n\nPersonal pronouns are used primarily for emphasis: \"ní·\" 'I', \"kí·\" 'you (singular), \"né·ka\" 'he, she', \"ki·ló·na\" 'we (inclusive),' \"ni·ló·na\" 'we (exclusive),' \"ki·ló·wa \" 'you (plural),' \"ne·ká·wa \" 'they.'\n\nReflexive pronouns are used for reflexive objects and for the grammatical objects of certain types of verbs: \"nhákay \" 'myself,' \"khákay \" 'yourself,' \"hwákayal\" 'his/herself.' In the example kwəšə̆ná·wal hwákayal 'he injures himself' the reflexive pronoun is marked with the obviative suffix /-al/, as is the verb.\n\nThe interrogative-indefinite pronouns have both interrogative and indefinite usages. The pronouns are animate \"awé·n\" 'who, someone' and \"kwé·kw\" 'what.'\n\nParticles are words that are invariant in shape, i.e. they do not occur with any inflectional prefixes or suffixes. Particles may have a wide variety of meanings, and any organization into semantic classes is arbitrary. Many particles correspond to English modifiers of various kinds: \"á·pwi\" 'early,' \"á·wi·s\" 'late,' \"lá·wate\" 'long ago.' Others correspond to English terms specifying a location: \"alá·mi\" 'inside,' \"awási·\" 'the other side of,' \"é·kwi·\" 'under.' Some correspond to English nouns or noun phrases: \"naláhi·\" 'Munceytown,' \"kóhpi·\" 'in the forest.' Some forms of numbers are particles: \"nkwə́ti\" 'one,' \"ní·ša\" 'two,' \"nxáh\" 'three.'\n\n(a) \"Kóhpi· éew.\" 'He went to the forest.'\n\n(a) \"Lá·wate kóhpi· éew.\" 'Long ago he went to the forest'\n\n(a) \"Wsa·m á·wi·s, alá·mi éew\" 'Its too late, he went inside.'\n\nPreverbs are modifiers that occur before verbs. Preverbs reflect a wide variety of meanings. By convention, a hyphen is written between a preverb and a following verb, or between a preverb and a following preverb in the case of a sequence of two or more preverbs.\n\n(a) \"áhwi-šə̆wahá·səw\" 'it has a lot of salt on it.'\n\nIn a sequence of preverb(s) followed by a verb stem, any inflectional personal prefix attaches to the first preverb, as in the followinɡ example in which the personal prefix /nt-/ precedes /á·pwi-/ 'early.' Inflectional suffixes, if any, are attached to the verb stem, not to the preverb. Thus, the combination of a preverb with a verb stem creates an entity called a compound verb stem.\n\n(a) \"ntá·pwi-á·mwi.\" 'I got up early.'\n(a) \"ntá·pwi-a·mwíhna.\" 'We got up early.'\nIndependent words may intervene between a preverb and the verb it is linked to. In the following example the pronoun \"kwé·k\" 'something, what' appears between the preverb \"á·lə-\" 'be unable to' and the verb \"lə́num\" 'do something.'\n\n(a) \"á·lə- kwé·k –lə́num.\" 'He can't do anything.'\n\nSequences of two or more preverbs are possible. The preverbs are \"kí·š-\" 'be able' and \"kši-\" 'quickly.'\n\n(a) \"ní· á · nkí·š-kši-kə́ntka\" 'I can dance fast.'\n\nPrenouns are modifiers that occur before nouns. Prenouns are less common than preverbs. They express a wide variety of meanings.\nThe prenoun connects to the noun it modifies using a hyphen. The prenoun itself has no gender. A prenoun may connect to a noun of either gender. The compound stem created by the prenoun-noun connection functions as one word such that prefixes for possession attach to the beginning of the preverb and suffixes attach to the end of noun. \n\n(a) \"wə́ski·-pambí·l\" 'new book'\n\n(a) \"mpambí·lə́m\" 'my book'\n\n(a) \"no·ski·-pambí·lə́m\" 'my new book' \n\n\n\nhttp://munseedelaware.com A website devoted to the study of the grammar of the Munsee Delaware language.\n"}
{"id": "57468306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57468306", "title": "Musée de Die", "text": "Musée de Die\n\nThe Musée de Die et du Diois is an archaeological museum dedicated to the story of Die, the ancient Roman city \"Augusta Dea Vocontiorum\".\n\nThe museum was created in 1905 by the mayor of the time, Joseph Reynaud, to receive archaeological collections from Albert Gayet's excavations on the Coptic necropolis of Antinopolis, in Egypt. These collections had been exhibited in Paris, at the Petit Palais in Paris, and were distributed in regional museums, as well as in Die.\n\nSoon, Roman and medieval remains of the ancient city of Die (\"Colonia Dea Augusta Vocontiorum\") came to complete the collections of the nascent museum. A monetary treasure dating from the Wars of Religion soon made its entry (discovered in 1883, he was presented at the communal school). In 1924, Joseph Reynaud decided to bequeath his mansion to the city, located in the center, to install the collection. This is done in 1941, and the new museum is inaugurated in 1949, taking advantage of the sixth centenary of the annexation of the Dauphiné to the french crown (1349). A curator is named: Maurice Arnaud.\n\nIn 1967, the city made a major acquisition for its museum: an archeological collection patiently collected locally between 1820 and 1930 by Dr. Jean-Denis Long and his successors comes to double the volume of objects presented to the museum, which is growing again under the management of its curator, Henri Desaye, known for his epigraphic skills. This one travels the region to study (and if possible, to collect for the museum) the archaeological remains of the past of the city of Die, Luc-en-Diois (the other Roman capital of Vocontii) ) and of this entire Alpine territory of the Drôme.In 1992, a fortuitous discovery forced to further increase the museum's presentations: it is a Neolithic menhir, exceptional because of its size (4 meters long) and because of the engravings it carries, putting it directly in touch with the great menhirs of Brittany or Île-de-France. With this menhir, prehistory made in 1996 a remarkable entrance to the museum.\n\nThe museum is planned to be moved to the old episcopal palace of the city (where the mosaic of the four rivers can be seen), which would considerably enlarge its area and add many objects to the current collections.\n\n"}
{"id": "22051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22051", "title": "National Lampoon (magazine)", "text": "National Lampoon (magazine)\n\nNational Lampoon was an American humor magazine which ran from 1970 to 1998. The magazine started out as a spinoff from the \"Harvard Lampoon\". \"National Lampoon\" magazine reached its height of popularity and critical acclaim during the 1970s, when it had a far-reaching effect on American humor and comedy. The magazine spawned films, radio, live theatre, various sound recordings, and print products including books. Many members of the creative staff from the magazine subsequently went on to contribute creatively to successful media of all types.\n\nDuring the magazine's most successful years, parody of every kind was a mainstay; surrealist content was also central to its appeal. Almost all the issues included long text pieces, shorter written pieces, a section of actual news items (dubbed \"True Facts\"), cartoons and comic strips. Most issues also included \"Foto Funnies\" or fumetti, which often featured nudity. The result was an unusual mix of intelligent, cutting-edge wit, combined with some crass, bawdy jesting.\nIn both cases, \"National Lampoon\" humor often pushed far beyond the boundaries of what was generally considered appropriate and acceptable. It was especially anarchic, satirically attacking what was considered holy and sacred. As co-founder Henry Beard described the experience years later: \"There was this big door that said, 'Thou shalt not.' We touched it, and it fell off its hinges.\"\n\nThe magazine declined during the late 1980's under new management and editorial staff, and it never recovered. It was kept alive minimally, but ceased publication altogether in 1998.\n\n\"National Lampoon\" was started by Harvard graduates and \"Harvard Lampoon\" alumni Doug Kenney, Henry Beard and Robert Hoffman in 1969, when they first licensed the \"Lampoon\" name for a monthly national publication. The Harvard Lampoon was established in 1876 as a long-standing tradition of the campus, influencing the later National Lampoon Brand in its evolution from illustration heavy publications to satirical wit, ranging from short fiction to comic strips. The magazine's first issue was dated April 1970. The company that owned the magazine was called Twenty First Century Communications.\n\nAfter a shaky start for a few issues, the magazine rapidly grew in popularity. Like the \"Harvard Lampoon,\" individual issues had themes, including such topics as \"The Future,\" \"Back to School,\" \"Death,\" \"Self-Indulgence,\" and \"Blight.\" The magazine regularly reprinted material in \"best-of\" omnibus collections. Its writers joyfully targeted every kind of phoniness, and had no specific political stance, even though individual staff members had strong political views.\n\n\"National Lampoon\" was a monthly magazine for most of its publication history. Numerous \"special editions\" were also published and sold simultaneously on newsstands. Some of the special editions were anthologies of reprinted material; others were entirely original. Additional projects included a calendar, a songbook, a collection of transfer designs for T-shirts, and a number of books. The magazine sold yellow binders with the Lampoon logo, designed to store a year's worth of issues.\n\nThe original art directors were cartoonist Peter Bramley and Bill Skurski, founders of New York's Cloud Studio, an alternative-culture outfit known at the time for its eclectic style. Bramley created the \"Lampoon\"'s first cover and induced successful cartoonists Arnold Roth and Gahan Wilson to become regular contributors. \nBeginning with the eighth issue, the art direction of the magazine was taken over by Michael C. Gross, who directed the look of the magazine until 1974. A number of the \"National Lampoon\"'s most acerbic and humorous covers were designed or overseen by Gross, including:\n\nMichael Gross and Doug Kenney chose a young designer from \"Esquire\" named Peter Kleinman to succeed the team of Gross and David Kaestle. During his\" Lampoon\" tenure, Kleinman was also the art director of \"Heavy Metal\" magazine, published by the same company. The best known of Kleinman's\" Lampoon \"covers were \"Stevie Wonder with 3-D Glasses\" painted by Sol Korby, a photographed \"Nose to The Grindstone\" cover depicting a man's face being pressed against a spinning grinder wheel for the \"Work\" issue, the \"JFK's First 6000 Days\" issue featuring a portrait of an old John F. Kennedy, the \"Fat Elvis\" cover which appeared a year before Elvis Presley died, and many of the Mara McAfee covers done in a classic Norman Rockwell style. Kleinman designed the logos for \"Animal House\" and \"Heavy Metal.\" \nKleinman left in 1979 to open an ad agency.\n\nHe was succeeded by Skip Johnson, the designer responsible for the \"Sunday Newspaper Parody\" and the \"Arab Getting Punched in the Face\" cover of the \"Revenge\" issue. Johnson went on to \"The New York Times.\" He was followed by Michael Grossman, who changed the logo and style of the magazine.\n\nIn 1984, Kleinman returned as creative director and went back to the 1970s logo and style, bringing back many of the artists and writers from the magazine's heyday. He left four years later to pursue a career in corporate marketing. At that time, the \"National Lampoon\" magazine entered a period of precipitous decline.\n\nEvery regular monthly issue of the magazine had an editorial at the front of the magazine. This often appeared to be straightforward, but was always a parody. It was written by whoever was the editor of that particular issue, since that role rotated among the staff. A few issues were guest-edited.\n\nThe magazine was an outlet for some notable writing talents, including Douglas Kenney, Henry Beard, George W. S. Trow, Chris Miller, P. J. O'Rourke, Michael O'Donoghue, Chris Rush, Sean Kelly, Tony Hendra, Brian McConnachie, Gerald Sussman, Ellis Weiner, Ted Mann, Chris Cluess, Al Jean, Mike Reiss, Jeff Greenfield, John Hughes and Ed Subitzky.\n\nThe work of many important cartoonists, photographers, and illustrators appeared in the magazine's pages, including Neal Adams, Gahan Wilson, Robert Grossman, Michael Sullivan, Ron Barrett, Peter Bramley, Vaughn Bode, Bruce McCall, Rick Meyerowitz, Warren Sattler, M. K. Brown, Shary Flenniken, Bobby London, Edward Gorey, Jeff Jones, Joe Orlando, Arnold Roth, Rich Grote, Ed Subitzky, Mara McAfee, Sam Gross, Charles Rodrigues, Buddy Hickerson, B. K. Taylor, Birney Lettick, Frank Frazetta, Boris Vallejo, Marvin Mattelson, Stan Mack, Chris Callis, John E. Barrett, Raymond Kursar, Andy Lackow, and David C.K. McClelland.\n\nComedy stars John Belushi, Chevy Chase, Gilda Radner, Bill Murray, Brian Doyle Murray, Harold Ramis, and Richard Belzer first gained national attention for their performances in the National Lampoon's stage show and radio show. The first three subsequently went on to become part of \"Saturday Night Live\"'s original wave of Not Ready for Primetime Players, Bill Murray replaced Chase when Chase left \"SNL\" after the first season, and Brian Doyle Murray later appeared as an \"SNL\" regular. Harold Ramis went on to be a prolific director and writer working on such films as \"Animal House\", \"Caddyshack\", \"Ghostbusters\", and many more. Brian Doyle Murray has had roles in dozens of films, and Belzer is an Emmy Award-winning TV actor.\n\nGerald L. \"Jerry\" Taylor was the publisher, followed by William T. Lippe. The business side of the magazine was controlled by Matty Simmons, who was chairman of the board and CEO of Twenty First Century Communications, a publishing company.\n\n\"True Facts\" was a section near the front of the magazine which contained true but ridiculous items from real life. Together with the masthead, it was one of the few parts of the magazine that was factual. \"True Facts\" included photographs of unintentionally funny signage, extracts from ludicrous newspaper reports, strange headlines, and so on. For many years John Bendel was in charge of the \"True Facts\" section of the magazine. Steven Brykman edited the \"True Facts\" section of the National Lampoon website. Several \"True Facts\" compilation books were published in the 1980s and early 90s, and several all-True-Facts issues of the magazine were published during the 1980s.\n\nMost issues of the magazine featured one or more \"Foto Funny\" or fumetti, comic strips that use photographs instead of drawings as illustrations. The characters who appeared in the Lampoon's Foto Funnies were usually editors or contributing editors of the magazine, often cast alongside nude or semi-nude models. In 1980, a paperback compilation book, \"National Lampoon Foto Funnies\" which appeared as a part of National Lampoon Comics, was published.\n\nThe \"Funny Pages\" was a large section at the back of the magazine that was composed entirely of comic strips of various kinds. These included work from a number of artists who also had pieces published in the main part of the magazine, including Gahan Wilson, Ed Subitzky and Vaughn Bode, as well as artists whose work was only published in this section. The regular strips included \"Dirty Duck\" by Bobby London, \"Trots and Bonnie\" by Shary Flenniken, \"The Appletons\" by B. K. Taylor, \"Politeness Man\" by Ron Barrett, and many other strips. A compilation of Gahan Wilson's \"Nuts\" strip was published in 2011. The Funny Pages logo header art, which was positioned above Gahan Wilson's \"Nuts\" in each issue, and showed a comfortable, old-fashioned family reading newspaper-sized funny papers, was drawn by Mike Kaluta.\n\nFrom time to time, the magazine advertised Lampoon-related merchandise for sale, including T-shirts that had been especially designed.\n\nThe magazine existed from 1970 to 1998. Some consider its finest period was from 1971 to 1975, although it continued to be produced on a monthly schedule throughout the 1970s and the early 1980s, and did well during that time.\n\nHowever, during the late 1980s, a much more serious decline set in. In 1989, the company that controlled the magazine and its related projects (which was part of \"Twenty First Century Communications\") was the subject of a hostile takeover. In 1991 it was sold outright to another company, \"J2 Communications\".\n\nAt that point \"National Lampoon\" was considered valuable only as a brand name that could be licensed out to other companies. The magazine was issued erratically and rarely from 1991 onwards. 1998 saw the last issue.\n\nThe first issue was April 1970; by November of that year, Michael C. Gross had become the art director. He achieved a unified, sophisticated, and integrated look for the magazine, which enhanced its humorous appeal.\n\nNational Lampoon's most successful sales period was 1973–75. Its national circulation peaked at 1,000,096 copies sold of the October 1974 \"Pubescence\" issue. The 1974 monthly average was 830,000, which was also a peak. Former \"Lampoon\" editor Tony Hendra's book \"Going Too Far\" includes a series of precise circulation figures.\n\nIt was also during this time that Lemmings (National Lampoon) Show and The National Lampoon Radio Hour show was broadcast, bringing interest and acclaim to the National Lampoon brand with magazine talent like writer Michael O'Donoghue that would go on to write for Saturday Night Live with many of the players transitioning from Lemmings (National Lampoon) and The National Lampoon Radio Hour.\n\nThe magazine was considered by many to be at its creative zenith during this time. It should however be noted that the publishing industry's newsstand sales were excellent for many other titles during that time: there were sales peaks for \"Mad\" (more than 2 million), \"Playboy\" (more than 7 million), and \"TV Guide\" (more than 19 million).\n\nSome fans consider the glory days of National Lampoon to have ended in 1975, although the magazine remained popular and profitable long after that point. During 1975, the three founders (Kenney, Beard, and Hoffman) took advantage of a buyout clause in their contracts for $7.5 million. About the same time, writers Michael O'Donoghue and Anne Beatts left to join the NBC comedy show \"Saturday Night Live\" (\"SNL\"). At the same time, the\" National Lampoon Show's \"John Belushi and Gilda Radner left the troupe to join the original septet of\" SNL's\" Not Ready for Primetime Players.\n\nThe magazine was a springboard to the cinema of the United States for a generation of comedy writers, directors, and performers. Various alumni went on to create and write for \"SNL,\" \"The David Letterman Show,\" SCTV, \"The Simpsons\", \"Married... with Children\", \"Night Court\", and various films including \"National Lampoon's Animal House\", \"Caddyshack\", \"National Lampoon's Vacation\", and \"Ghostbusters\".\n\nAs some of the original creators departed, the magazine remained popular and profitable as it had the emergence of John Hughes and editor-in-chief P.J. O'Rourke, along with artists and writers such as Gerry Sussman, Ellis Weiner, Tony Hendra, Ted Mann, Peter Kleinman, Chris Cluess, Stu Kreisman, John Weidman, Jeff Greenfield, Bruce McCall, and Rick Meyerowitz.\n\nIn 1985, Matty Simmons (who had been working only on the business end of the Lampoon up to that point) took over as editor-in-chief. He fired the entire editorial staff, and appointed his two sons, Michael Simmons and Andy Simmons, as editors, Peter Kleinman as creative director and editor, and Larry \"Ratso\" Sloman as executive editor. The magazine was on an increasingly shaky financial footing, and beginning in November 1986, the magazine was published six times a year instead of every month.\n\nIn 1989, the magazine was acquired in a hostile takeover by a business partnership of producer Daniel Grodnik and actor Tim Matheson (who played \"Otter\" in the 1978 film \"National Lampoon's Animal House\"). Grodnik and Matheson became the co-Chairmen/co-CEOs. During their tenure, the stock went up from under $2 to $6 and the magazine doubled the monthly ad pages from 7 to 15. The company moved its headquarters from New York to Los Angeles to focus on film and television. The publishing operation stayed in New York.\n\nIn 1991, the magazine (and more importantly, the rights to the brand name \"National Lampoon\") were bought by a company called J2 Communications (a company previously known for marketing Tim Conway's \"Dorf\" videos), headed by James P. Jimirro.\n\nJ2 Communications' focus was to make money by licensing out the brand name \"National Lampoon\". The company was contractually obliged to publish at least one new issue of the magazine per year to retain the rights to the Lampoon name. However, the company had very little interest in the magazine itself; throughout the 1990s, the number of issues per year declined precipitously and erratically. In 1991, an attempt at monthly publication was made; nine issues were produced that year. Only two issues were released in 1992. This was followed by one issue in 1993, five in 1994, and three in 1995. For the last three years of its existence, the magazine was published only once a year.\n\nThe magazine's final print publication was November 1998, after which the contract was renegotiated, and in a sharp reversal, J2 Communications was then prohibited from publishing issues of the magazine. J2, however, still owned the rights to the brand name, which it continued to franchise out to other users. In 2002, the use of the brand name and the rights to republish old material were sold to a new, and otherwise unrelated, company which chose to call itself National Lampoon, Incorporated.\n\nDuring its most active period, the magazine spun off numerous productions in a wide variety of media.\n\"National Lampoon\" released books, special issues, anthologies, and other print pieces, including:\n\n\n\n\"True Facts\" special editions and books\n\nVinyl record albums\n\nVinyl singles\n\n\n\nMany of the older albums that were originally on vinyl have been re-issued as CDs and a number of tracks from certain albums are available as MP3s.\n\n\n\n\nConsiderable ambiguity exists about what actually constitutes a \"National Lampoon\" film.\n\nDuring the 1970s and early 1980s, a few films were made as spin-offs from the original \"National Lampoon\" magazine, using its creative staff. The first theatrical release, and by far the most successful \"National Lampoon\" film was \"National Lampoon's Animal House\" (1978). Starring John Belushi and written by Doug Kenney, Harold Ramis, and Chris Miller, it became the highest-grossing comedy film of that time. Produced on a low budget, it was so enormously profitable that, from that point on for the next two decades, the name \"National Lampoon\" applied to the title of a movie was considered to be a valuable selling point in and of itself.\n\nNumerous movies were subsequently made that had \"National Lampoon\" as part of the title. Many of these were unrelated projects because, by that time, the name \"National Lampoon\" could simply be licensed on a one-time basis, by any company, for a fee. Critics such as the \"Orlando Sentinel\"′s Roger Moore and \"The New York Times\"′ Andrew Adam Newman have written about the cheapening of the \"National Lampoon\"′s movie imprimatur; in 2006, an Associated Press review said: \"The National Lampoon, once a brand name above nearly all others in comedy, has become shorthand for pathetic frat boy humor.\"\n\nThe first of the \"National Lampoon\" movies was a not-very-successful made-for-TV movie: \n\nIn 1978, \"National Lampoon's Animal House\" was released. Made on a small budget, it did phenomenally well at the box office. In 2001, the United States Library of Congress considered the film \"culturally significant\", and preserved it in the National Film Registry.\n\nThe script had its origins in a series of short stories that had been previously published in the magazine. These included Chris Miller's \"Night of the Seven Fires\", which dramatized a fraternity initiation and included the characters Pinto and Otter, which contained prose versions of the toga party, the \"road trip\", and the dead horse incident. Another source was Doug Kenney's \"First Lay Comics\", which included the angel and devil scene and the grocery-cart affair. According to the authors, most of these elements were based on real incidents.\n\nThe film was of great cultural significance to its time, as \"The New York Times\" describes the magazine's 1970s period as \"Hedonism {} in full sway and political correctness in its infancy.\" Animal House, as the article describes was a crucial film manifestation of that culture. \n\nAn article from \"The Atlantic Monthly\" describes how \"Animal House\" captures the struggle between \"elitist {fraternity} who willingly aligned itself with the establishment, and the kind full of kooks who refused to be tamed.\" That concept was a crucial figment of the early National Lampoon Magazine, according to a \"The New York Times\" article concerning the early years of the Magazine and co-founder Douglas Kenney's brand of comedy as a \"liberating response to a rigid and hypocritical culture.\"\n\nThis 1982 movie was an attempt by John Hughes to make something similar to \"Animal House\". \"National Lampoon's Class Reunion\" was not successful, however.\n\nReleased in 1983, the movie \"National Lampoon's Vacation\" was based upon John Hughes' \"National Lampoon\" story \"Vacation '58\". The movie's financial success gave rise to several follow-up films, including \"National Lampoon's European Vacation\" (1985), \"National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation\" (1989), based on John Hughes' \"Christmas '59\", \"Vegas Vacation\" (1997), and most recently \"Vacation\" (2015), all featuring Chevy Chase.\n\nThe Robert Altman film \"O.C. and Stiggs\" (1987) was based on two characters who had been featured in several written pieces in \"National Lampoon\" magazine, including an issue-long story from October 1982 entitled \"The Utterly Monstrous, Mind-Roasting Summer of O.C. and Stiggs.\" Completed in 1984, the film was not released until 1987, when it was shown in a small number of theaters and without the \"National Lampoon\" name. It was not a success.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Animal House\", \"MAD\" magazine lent its name to a 1980 comedy titled \"Up the Academy\". Although two of \"Animal House\"′s co-writers were the \"Lampoon\"′s Doug Kenney and Chris Miller, \"Up The Academy\" was strictly a licensing maneuver, with no creative input from \"Mad\"′s staff or contributors. It was a critical and commercial failure.\n\nIn 2015, a documentary film was released called \"\". The film featured a great deal of content from the magazine, as well as interviews with staff members and fans, and it explains how the magazine changed the course of humor.\n\nThe 2018 film \"A Futile and Stupid Gesture\", a biography of co-founder Douglas Kenney, also depicts the magazine's early years. The film was described by a 2018 The New York Times Article as a \"snapshot of a moment where comedy's freshest counter-culture impulse was gleefully crass and willfully offensive.\" In the same article, Douglas Kenney was said to \"spot a comical hollowness and rot in the society he and his peers were trained to join.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2226362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2226362", "title": "National Progressive Party (Namibia)", "text": "National Progressive Party (Namibia)\n\nThe National Progressive Party was a political party in Namibia. It was formed in 1988, as a splinter group of the United Democratic Party. The party was led by Patrick Mufalo Limbo.\n"}
{"id": "37607608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37607608", "title": "Paphos Archaeological Park", "text": "Paphos Archaeological Park\n\nPaphos Archaeological Park (also Kato Pafos Archaeological Park) contains the major part of the important ancient Greek and Roman City and is located in Paphos, southwest Cyprus. The park, still under excavation, is within the Nea Pafos (\"New Paphos\") section of the coastal city.\n\nIts sites and monuments date from prehistoric times through the Middle Ages. Among the most significant remains so far discovered are four large and elaborate Roman villas: the House of Dionysos, the House of Aion, the House of Theseus and the House of Orpheus, all with superb preserved mosaic floors, especially an Orpheus mosaic. In addition, excavations have uncovered an Agora, Asklipieion, Basilica, Odeion, Hellenistic-Roman Theatre, and a necropolis known as the \"Tombs of the Kings\".\n\nIn 1980 Nea Pafos was inscribed on the World Heritage List of UNESCO for its outstanding ancient remains.\n\nNea Paphos was probably built by Nicocles, the last king of Paphos, at the end of the 4th c. BC. By the beginning of the 2nd c. BC it became the capital of the island, replacing Salamis during the Hellenistic era under the Ptolemies.\n\nThis exceptionally rich villa occupies 2000 sq. m of which 556 are covered with mosaic floors decorated with mythological, vintage and hunting scenes. Its is named after the god Dionysos who features on several of the mosaics. \n\nIts rooms are arranged around a central courtyard, or atrium, which functioned as the core of the house. It was built at the end of the 2nd century AD and was destroyed and abandoned after the earthquakes of the 4th century AD.\n\nA Hellenistic pebble mosaic representing the mythical sea-monster Scylla from an earlier villa of the 3rd c. BC which was found below the Roman villa is on display in situ.\n\nAlthough only three rooms of this large villa have been excavated by the University of Warsaw, the mosaic floor from the House of Aion is considered one of the most exceptional works of ancient Roman art, if not the only work of its kind, and certainly one of the most enigmatic and most fervently discussed by scholars. It dates from around the mid-4th century AD and is named after the god shown in the middle of the mosaic.\n\nThe main room was probably a triclinium or reception room. Two smaller rooms had excellent geometric mosaics.\n\nThe main mosaic contains 3 horizontal frames with 5 panels all surrounded by a geometric frame.\n\nA villa wall was found collapsed into the adjacent street and has been restored.\n\nThis exceptionally large villa was the residence of the Roman proconsul or governor, and was divided between rooms for official functions and those for private use. Its name derives from the beautiful mosaic of Theseus and the Minotaur found in the southeast quarter. The villa covered several insulae of the Hellenistic street plan.\n\nIt was built in the 2nd half of the 2nd c. AD over ruins of earlier houses and was occupied until the 7th c. AD.\nSo far only the southern half of the villa has been fully excavated.\n\nThis villa lies to the west of the House of Theseus. The mosaics of the third century AD have three mythological representations: “Orpheus and his Lyre”, “Hercules and the Lion of Nemea” and “the Amazon”, but they are currently not on view to the public.\n\nThe theatre, located in the northeastern area of the ancient city, is dated to originally the end of the fourth century BC and has been under excavation by the University of Sydney since 1995.\n\nArcheological Park Paphos Life\n\nKato Paphos Archaeological Park - Paphos Archaeological Attractions"}
{"id": "3287616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3287616", "title": "Pointillé", "text": "Pointillé\n\nPointillé is a decorative technique in which patterns are formed on a surface by a means of punched dots. The technique is similar to embossing or engraving but is done manually and does not cut into the surface being decorated. Pointillé was commonly used to decorate arms and armor starting in the fifteenth century . The Holy Thorn Reliquary in the British Museum, made in France at the end of the 14th century, has very fine and delicate pointillé work in gold.\n\nPointillé is commonly used:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47418754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47418754", "title": "Pornographication", "text": "Pornographication\n\nPornographication or pornification, sometimes referred to as raunch culture, denotes the intrusion of the style and contents of the sex industry into mainstream culture (music, television, Hollywood movies) and the sexualisation of Western culture. Pornographication, particularly sexualising the images of women, is said to demonstrate \"how patriarchal power operates in the field of gender representation\". In \"Women in Popular Culture\", Marion Meyers argues that the portrayal of women in modern society is primarily influenced by \"the mainstreaming of pornography and its resultant hypersexualization of women and girls, and the commodification of those images for a global market\".\n\nThe phenomenon has been discussed by authors such as Marian Meyers and Kath Woodward. Pornographication also features in discussions of post-feminism by Ariel Levy, Natasha Walter, Feona Attwood, and Brian McNair.\n\nPornography and the modern sex culture has been around for many decades, but has its roots in the Greek word \"\"porni\", which means prostitute and \"graphein\", which means to write. It is shown throughout various global cultures. In ancient Greece and Rome, there was many sexually charged images on the walls. When the printing press was invented, it was much easier to distribute information to the masses, which is how the first versions of erotica came about. What most people think about Western pornography and the sex culture started with the Enlightenment of the 18th century. Many more people had access to pornographic material during the Enlightenment, and in England books such as \"Fanny Hill; or, Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure\" had commercial success as one of the earliest forms of erotica. During this time, people started thinking more freely, so pornography could challenge the norms of the time, as with Marquis de Sade's book \"Justine.\" While most pornographic images before the 19th century were images or books, when the motion picture was invented, it created a whole new medium for sexual imagery. At the start of the 1920s, it became popular throughout the West. \n\n\"Blue Movie\", a 1969 American film written, produced, and directed by Andy Warhol, is the first adult erotic film depicting explicit sex to receive wide theatrical release in the United States, \"Blue Movie\", a seminal film in the Golden Age of Porn (1969–1984), helped inaugurate the \"porno chic\" phenomenon in modern American culture, and later, in many other countries throughout the world. According to Warhol, \"Blue Movie\" was a major influence in the making of \"Last Tango in Paris\", an internationally controversial erotic drama film, starring Marlon Brando, and released a few years after \"Blue Movie\" was made. In 1970, \"Mona\", the second adult erotic film, after \"Blue Movie\", depicting explicit sex that received a wide theatrical release in the United States, was shown. Later, other adult films, such as \"Boys in the Sand\", \"Deep Throat\", \"Behind the Green Door\" and \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" were released, continuing the Golden Age of Porn begun with \"Blue Movie\". In 1973, the phenomenon of porn being publicly discussed by celebrities (like Johnny Carson and Bob Hope) and taken seriously by film critics (like Roger Ebert). began, for the first time, in modern American culture. In 1976, \"The Opening of Misty Beethoven\", based on the play \"Pygmalion\" by George Bernard Shaw (and its derivative, \"My Fair Lady\"), and directed by Radley Metzger, was released theatrically and is considered, by award-winning author Toni Bentley, the \"crown jewel\" of the Golden Age of Porn.\n\nAfter the Internet was invented in the 1990s, more people could express themselves sexually online, and anyone could post pictures or videos if they chose to. Pornography in the West is generally much more widely accepted, and \"66% of men and 41% of women consume pornography on a monthly basis\".\n\nIn slasher movies, sex and violence are often coupled together. In famous horror films such as \"Friday the 13th\", women are portrayed as weak and often are victims. Because of repeated viewing of these movies, people may become desensitized, and especially with males, could be prone to \"be less disturbed by scenes of extreme violence and degradation directed at women\". Men, after repeated exposure to violent films, were less likely to feel empathy and remorse. Men could think that violence towards women is normal, which therefore leads to more sexual violence towards women. These movies are just one example of how sexuality is translated to men and women, explicitly showing men as dominant and powerful, and women as weak.\n\nTeens who were exposed to highly sexual content on TV were more likely to \"act older\" than their age. If what was being shown on TV was educational, it could yield a positive result on teenagers. For example, on one specific episode of \"Friends\", which had nearly 2 million viewers at the time, one of the characters had gotten pregnant even after using contraception. After the episode, teens were actually more likely to engage in safer sexual activity, and as much as 65% remembered what was in that episode.\n\nLiterature which people read for sexual satisfaction is one of the earliest forms of media portraying sexuality. Now, there are various websites to satisfy most people's varied sexual preferences and tastes. As erotica was a form of social protest against the values of the culture at the time, as was with the famous book \"The Romance of Lust\", written as a few volumes between 1873–1876. Described in the book are homosexuality, incest, and other socially unacceptable concepts. The values of the Victorian era perpetuated purity and innocence. So this book offered a new perspective. In recent years, erotica has become the new norm, and is extremely popular. The most recent commercial success was \"Fifty Shades Of Grey\", describing in detail scenes of sadomasochism and other forms of kink. It sold over \"31 million worldwide\", and has been adapted into a film starring Dakota Johnson and Jamie Dornan.\n\nMagazines often portray sex in a very indirect way. As seen in advertisements throughout, sex is portrayed without anyone needing to say a word. However, in a lot of ways, this can be devastating to people's psyches, especially women. Magazines feature women barely clothed in provocative positions, which can communicate that women are not good enough. One of the more unlikely effects is it affecting dieting patterns.\n\nIn order to understand how sex culture is so prevalent, we need to look at human sexuality as a whole and why people gravitate towards such mediums as described above.\n\nStructuralism is commonly defined as \"analyzing a specific field as a complex system of interrelated parts\". This term used in sociology was popularized with Michel Foucault, in France where most of the early research took place on it. Sociologists who look at sexuality focus on the idea of social institutions, such as the family, law, and the economy. The economy requires money to go in and out of the system. People could say sexual relationships are a social institution. Due to the Western acceptance of Judeo-Christianity, incest is rarely represented in the media. The idea of the family is so powerful and strong that dating someone or having relations with a member of one's family is highly taboo. A structuralist would argue that sex culture is an offshoot of these institutions. When it comes to pornography, it is another way of income and is an offshoot of the economy and the highly capitalistic ideas of the West. This is also expressed in how the family affects teenagers who view certain types of media, and those who are marginalized may be more susceptible to the negative impacts of sexuality.\n\nSymbolic interactionism was first coined by George Herbert Mead, who came up with this school of sociological thought in the 1930s. Its premise is primarily based on \"objects acquire meaning, thus becoming symbols, through communication\". One of his most famous books \"Mind, Self And Society\" is famous for describing this theory in depth. Here, he pinpoints the self as an object and other create meaning around it. At the same time, we change the self depending on how we perceive other's ideas of our selves. So in studying something like sexuality or acts related to sex, a sociologist under this perspective could look at pornography and the messages it communicates, or look at magazines and the messages they send to people. One graphic example provided is the \"power\" symbol communicated in pornography. In pornography, men are implied to be powerful and dominant, whereas women are not. This is especially true in violent pornography, where the person watching feels like they have a complete sense of control over the content, where women are depicted as enjoying it, so that communicates that it may be okay to be violent towards women.\n\nWith scripting theory, it \"is the result of elaborate prior learning that teaches us an etiquette of sexual behavior\". It is all about social learning and scripting theory states that everything we see and do sexually in our culture is influenced by a set of social scripts that are conditioned into people. These provide details and instructions to guide us into how people choose partners and therefore, who they find attractive or desirable. As mentioned before, magazines can indirectly send this message. Since what is shown primarily is a woman's appearance, so women instinctively realize they need to appear a certain way for a mate. It is a socially learned behavior that happens from repeated exposure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3697826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3697826", "title": "Proto-writing", "text": "Proto-writing\n\nProto-writing consists of visible marks communicating limited information.\nSuch systems emerged from earlier traditions of symbol systems in the early Neolithic, as early as the 7th millennium BCE.\nThey used ideographic or early mnemonic symbols or both to represent a limited number of concepts, in contrast to true writing systems, which record the language of the writer.\n\nIn 2003, tortoise shells were found in 24 Neolithic graves excavated at Jiahu, Henan province, northern China, with radiocarbon dates from the 7th millennium BCE. According to some archaeologists, the symbols carved on the shells had similarities to the late 2nd millennium BCE oracle bone script. Others have dismissed this claim as insufficiently substantiated, claiming that simple geometric designs such as those found on the Jiahu shells cannot be linked to early writing.\n\nThe Vinča symbols (6th to 5th millennia BCE, present-day Serbia) are an evolution of simple symbols beginning in the 7th millennium BCE, gradually increasing in complexity throughout the 6th millennium and culminating in the Tărtăria tablets of c. 5300 BCE. It has been argued that the alignment of the symbols evokes the impression of a \"text\".\nThe Dispilio Tablet of the late 6th millennium is similar.\n\nThe hieroglyphic scripts of the Ancient Near East (Egyptian, Sumerian proto-Cuneiform and Cretan) seamlessly emerge from such symbol systems, so that it is difficult to say at what point precisely writing emerges from proto-writing. Adding to this difficulty is the fact that very little is known about the symbols' meanings.\n\nThe transition from proto-writing to the earliest fully developed writing systems took place in the late 4th to early 3rd millennia BCE in the Fertile Crescent.\nThe Kish tablet, dated to 3500 BCE, reflects the stage of \"proto-cuneiform\", when what would become the cuneiform script of Sumer was still in the proto-writing stage. \nBy the end of the 4th millennium BCE, this symbol system had evolved into a method of keeping accounts, using a round-shaped stylus impressed into soft clay at different angles for recording numbers. This was gradually augmented with pictographic writing using a sharp stylus to indicate what was being counted. \nThe transitional stage to a writing system proper takes place in the Jemdet Nasr period (31st to 30th centuries BCE).\nA similar development took place in the genesis of the Egyptian hieroglyphs. Various scholars believe that Egyptian hieroglyphs \"came into existence a little after Sumerian script, and ... probably [were] ... invented under the influence of the latter ...\", although it is pointed out and held that \"the evidence for such direct influence remains flimsy\" and that \"a very credible argument can also be made for the independent development of writing in Egypt ...\" (See further Egyptian hieroglyphs).\n\nDuring the Bronze Age, the cultures of the Ancient Near East are known to have had fully developed writing systems, while the marginal territories affected by the Bronze Age, such as Europe, India and China, remained in the stage of proto-writing.\n\nThe Chinese script emerged from proto-writing in the Chinese Bronze Age, during about the 14th to 11th centuries BCE (Oracle bone script), while symbol systems native to Europe and India are extinct and replaced by descendants of the Semitic abjad during the Iron Age.\n\nThe so-called Indus script is a symbol system used during the 3rd millennium BCE in the Indus Valley Civilization.\n\nWith the exception of the Aegean and mainland Greece (Linear A, Linear B, Cretan hieroglyphs), the early writing systems of the Near East did not reach Bronze Age Europe. The earliest writing systems of Europe arise in the Iron Age, derived from the Phoenician alphabet.\n\nHowever, there are number of interpretations regarding symbols found on artefacts of the European Bronze Age which amount to interpreting them as an indigenous tradition of proto-writing. Of special interest in this context are the Central European Bronze Ages cultures derived from the Beaker culture in the second half of the 2nd millennium BCE. Interpretations of the markings of the bronze sickles associated with the Urnfield culture, especially the large number of so-called \"knob-sickles\" discovered in the Frankleben hoard, are discussed by Sommerfeld (1994). \n\nEven after the Bronze Age, several cultures have gone through a period of using systems of proto-writing as an intermediate stage before the adoption of writing proper. The \"Slavic runes\" (7th/8th century) mentioned by a few medieval authors may have been such a system. The Quipu of the Incas (15th century), sometimes called \"talking knots\", may have been of a similar nature. Another example is the system of pictographs invented by Uyaquk before the development of the Yugtun syllabary (ca. 1900).\n\nNsibidi is a system of symbols indigenous to what is now southeastern Nigeria. While there remains no commonly accepted exact date of origin, most researchers agree that use of the symbols date back well before 500 BCE. There are thousands of Nsibidi symbols which were used on anything from calabashes to tattoos and to wall designs. Nsibidi is used for the Ekoid and Igboid languages, and the Aro people are known to write Nsibidi messages on the bodies of their messengers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1042464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1042464", "title": "Prototype theory", "text": "Prototype theory\n\nPrototype theory is a mode of graded categorization in cognitive science, where some members of a category are more central than others. For example, when asked to give an example of the concept \"furniture\", \"chair\" is more frequently cited than, say, \"stool\". Prototype theory has also been applied in linguistics, as part of the mapping from phonological structure to semantics.\n\nAs formulated in the 1970s by Eleanor Rosch and others , prototype theory was a radical departure from traditional necessary and sufficient conditions as in Aristotelian logic, which led to\nset-theoretic approaches of extensional or intensional semantics. Thus instead of a definition based model—e.g. a bird may be defined as elements with the features [+feathers], [+beak] and [+ability to fly]—prototype theory would consider a category like bird as\nconsisting of different elements which have unequal status and, therefore, a \"robin\" is considered to be more prototypical of a \"bird\" than, say, a \"penguin\" (which, for instance) can't fly). This leads to a graded notion of categories, which is a central notion in many models of cognitive science and cognitive semantics, e.g. in the work of George Lakoff (\"Women, Fire and Dangerous Things\", 1987) or Ronald Langacker (\"Foundations of Cognitive Grammar\", vol. 1/2 1987/1991).\n\nThe term \"prototype\", as defined in Eleanor Rosch's study \"Natural Categories\" (1973), and was initially defined as denoting a stimulus, which takes a salient position in the formation of a category, due to the fact that it is the first stimulus to be associated with that category. Rosch later defined it as the most central member of a category.\n\nIn her 1975 paper, \"Cognitive Representation of Semantic Categories\" (J Experimental Psychology v. 104:192-233), Eleanor Rosch asked 200 American college students to rate, on a scale of 1 to 7, whether they regarded the following items as a good example of the category \"furniture\". This ranged from chair and sofa, ranked number 1, to a love seat (number 10), to a lamp (number 31), all the way to a telephone, ranked number 60.\n\nWhile one may differ from this list in terms of cultural specifics, the point is that such a graded categorization is likely to be present in all cultures. Further evidence that some members of a category are more privileged than others came from experiments involving:\n\nSubsequent to Rosch's work, prototype effects have been investigated widely in areas such as colour cognition (Brent Berlin and Paul Kay, 1969), and also for more abstract notions. Subjects may be asked, e.g. \"to what degree is this narrative an instance of telling a lie?\" [Coleman/Kay:1981]. Similarly work has been done on actions (verbs like look, kill, speak, walk [Pulman:83]), adjectives like \"tall\" [Dirven/Taylor:88], etc.\n\nAnother aspect in which Prototype Theory departs from traditional Aristotelian categorization is that there do not appear to be natural kind categories (bird, dog) vs. artifacts (toys, vehicles).\n\nA common comparison is the use of prototype or the use of exemplars in category classification. Medin, Altom, and Murphy (1984) found that using a mixture of prototype and exemplar information, participants were more accurately able to judge categories. Participants who were presented with prototype values classified based on similarity to stored prototypes and stored exemplars, whereas participants who only had experience with exemplar only relied on the similarity to stored exemplars. Smith and Minda (2002) looked at the use of prototypes and exemplars in dot-pattern category learning. They found that participants used more prototypes than they used exemplars, with the prototypes being the center of the category, and exemplars surrounding it.\n\nThe other notion related to prototypes is that of a \"basic level\" in cognitive categorization. When asked \"What are you sitting on?\", most subjects prefer to say chair rather than a subordinate such as \"kitchen chair\" or a superordinate such as \"furniture\". Basic categories are relatively homogeneous in terms of sensory-motor affordances — a chair is associated with bending of one's knees, a fruit with picking it up and putting it in your mouth, etc. At the subordinate level (e.g. [dentist's chairs], [kitchen chairs] etc.) hardly any significant features can be added to that of the basic level; whereas at the superordinate level, these conceptual similarities are hard to pinpoint. A picture of a chair is easy to draw (or visualize), but drawing furniture would be difficult.\n\nRosch (1978) defines the basic level as that level that has the highest degree of cue validity. Thus, a category like [animal] may have a prototypical member, but no cognitive visual representation. On the other hand, basic categories in [animal], i.e. [dog], [bird], [fish], are full of informational content and can easily be categorized in terms of Gestalt and semantic features.\n\nClearly semantic models based on attribute-value pairs fail to identify privileged levels in the hierarchy. Functionally, it is thought that basic level categories are a decomposition of the world into maximally informative categories. Thus, they\n\nHowever, the notion of Basic Level is problematic, e.g. whereas dog as a basic category is a species, bird or fish are at a higher level, etc. Similarly, the notion of frequency is very closely tied to the basic level, but is hard to pinpoint.\n\nMore problems arise when the notion of a prototype is applied to lexical categories other than the noun. Verbs, for example, seem to defy a clear prototype: [to run] is hard to split up in more or less central members.\n\nAutism has been shown to affect category and prototype formation. Gastgeb, Dundas, Minshew, and Strauss (2011) found that adults with high-functioning autism had difficulty forming categories and prototypes for dot patterns. Compared to those without autism, the pattern of results was the same, but overall performance of the autism groups was significantly lower.\n\nIndividuals with autism have also been shown to have differences in the formation of prototypes for faces. Gatsgeb, Wilkinson, Minshew, and Strauss (2011), in a separate study from the above, found that adults with high-functioning autism have significant difficulty in forming prototypes for faces. After shown a series of faces based on prototypes faces, those with autism had a harder time identifying the prototype faces than those without autism.\n\nChildren with autism also show prototype effects. Molesworth, Bowler, and Hampton (2008) found that two-thirds of their sample of autistic children with high-functioning autism did not show diminished prototype effects, while one-third showed no prototype effects. Molesworth, Bowler, and Hampton (2005) found signs of the prototype effect is children with autism and Asperger syndrome showed signs of prototype effects, yet the effects were not diminished from children without autism or Asperger syndrome.\n\nThe notion of prototypes is related to Wittgenstein's (later) discomfort with the traditional notion of category. This influential theory has resulted in a view of semantic components more as \"possible\" rather than necessary contributors to the meaning of texts. His discussion on the category \"game\" is particularly incisive (Philosophical Investigations 66, 1953):\nClearly, the notion of\n\"family resemblance\" is calling for a notion of conceptual distance, which is closely related to the idea of graded sets, but there are problems as well.\n\nRecently, Peter Gärdenfors (2004) has elaborated a possible partial explanation of prototype theory in terms of multi-dimensional feature spaces called conceptual spaces, where a category is defined in terms of a conceptual distance. More central members of a category are \"between\" the peripheral members. He postulates that most \"natural\" categories exhibit a convexity in conceptual space, in that if x and y are elements of a category, and if z is \"between\" x and y, then z is also likely to belong to the category.\n\nHowever, in the notion of game above, is there a single prototype or several? Recent linguistic data from colour studies seem to indicate that categories may have more than one focal element—e.g. the Tsonga colour term \"rihlaza\" refers to a green-blue continuum, but appears to have two prototypes, a focal blue, and a focal green. Thus, it is possible to have single categories with multiple, disconnected, prototypes, in which case they may constitute the union of several convex sets rather than a single one.\n\nAll around us, we find instances where objects like \"tall man\" or \"small elephant\" combine one or more categories. This was a problem for extensional semantics, where the semantics of a word such as \"red\" is to be defined as the set of objects having this property. Clearly, this does not apply so well to modifiers such as \"small\"; a \"small mouse\" is very different from a \"small elephant\".\n\nThese combinations pose a lesser problem in terms of prototype theory. In situations involving adjectives (e.g. \"tall\"), one encounters the question of whether or not the prototype of [tall] is a 6 foot tall man, or a 400-foot skyscraper [Dirven and Taylor 1988]. The solution emerges by contextualizing the notion of prototype in terms of the object being modified. This extends even more radically in compounds such as \"red wine\" or \"red hair\" which are hardly \"red\" in the prototypical sense, but the red indicates merely a shift from the prototypical colour of wine or hair respectively. This corresponds to de Saussure's notion of concepts as purely differential: \"non pas positivement par leur contenu, mais negativement par leurs rapports avec les autres termes du systeme\" [p. 162; not positively, in terms of their content, but negatively by contrast with other terms in the same system (tr. Harris 83)].\n\nOther problems remain—e.g. in determining which of the constituent categories will contribute which feature? In the example of a \"pet bird\" [Hampton 97], \"pet\" provides the habitat of the compound (cage rather than the wild), whereas \"bird\" provides the skin type (feathers rather than fur).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48048697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48048697", "title": "Radiography of cultural objects", "text": "Radiography of cultural objects\n\nThe radiography of cultural objects is the use of radiography to understand intrinsic details about objects. This process can reveal various details about objects that are not visible to the naked eye. This information, which includes structural elements, aids conservators as they assess object condition and consider treatment plans. Radiography can also reveal previous compositions and earlier repairs.\n\nInfrared and ultraviolet light are also useful tools to understand the intrinsic details of certain objects. However, x-rays tend to be more useful for denser objects. The benefit of radiography is that it is not intrusive. Radiography does expose the object to radiation, but these levels are low. In fact, they are much lower than the radiation levels required for medical x-rays. While technicians and staff conducting the x-ray must use protective gear, the object is not damaged during the process. Furthermore, the use of radiography is widely accepted by conservators, art historians, and archaeologists. Several institutions around the world conduct radiography of objects in their collections including the Victoria & Albert Museum in London, England and the Smithsonian, which operates the Museum Conservation Institute.\n\nConservators and art historians have used radiography to uncover technical information about paintings. Compositions of materials, previous alterations, and painting techniques have been revealed in x-rays. This data has also been used to date works and identify forgeries. Diagnostic and therapeutic x-ray systems are generally used to produce x-rays of paintings. Infrared reflectography has also been used to see underdrawings and previous markings on painted canvases.\n\nPaints are produced with a variety of elements. Depending on how much these pigments absorb x-rays affects how clear or opaque they will appear in the radiograph, this is known as x-ray fluorescence. Lead white, for example, will absorb more rays and appear much more opaque on an x-radiograph than carbon black, which will allow most of the x-rays to pass through resulting in a clearer result on the radiograph. To produce a radiograph of a painting, the radiographic film is placed on the painted surface and the x-ray tube is placed behind the canvas.\n\nAn x-ray of the Ghent Altarpiece, painted by Jan Van Eyck, in Saint Bavo Cathedral in Ghent, Belgium revealed the structure and details of the large altarpiece’s painting scheme. The complete radiography of the altarpiece was conducted between 2010 and 2011 as part of a project largely funded by the Getty Institute. The x-rays and other technical information that was gathered were used to prepare conservation treatments.\n\nThe Sampling Officials of the Amsterdam Drapers’ Guild, also known as the Syndics of the Drapers' Guild or more simply as the Syndics, was painted by Rembrandt in 1662. An x-ray of the painting revealed that Rembrandt fine-tuned the composition several times, alternating the glances between the figures and slightly changing their positions before he settled on that is known today.\n\nX-ray analysis revealed alterations to the paint of a sixteenth century portrait that had been identified as a Bronzino portrait of Eleanor of Toledo at the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. After a conservation treatment, which removed the added paint, the subject of the portrait was found to be Isabella de' Medici. The painting was also attributed to Alessandro Allori.\n\nJean-François Millet’s The Wood Sawyers at Victoria & Albert Museum was x-rayed, revealing that Millet had reused a canvas to complete this oil painting. The artist not only painted over a previous work, but he had also added strips of canvas to enlarge the painting area.\n\nAccording to x-rays taken of Twilight by Jean Baptiste Camille Corot, also at the Victoria & Albert Museum, the artist painted over a previous picture that had not even dried yet. Pigments from the lower painting appear through cracks in the surface layer.\n\nThe Old Guitarist by Pablo Picasso at the Art Institute of Chicago had been previously examined with visible and ultraviolet light, which had hinted at the possibility of an earlier composition. X-rays of the painting revealed that Picasso had originally painted two female figures behind the guitarist. The x-rays also penetrated far enough to reveal how Picasso had prepared the wooden panel for painting.\n\nX-rays can provide a better picture of plaster casts and other works that rely on internal supports. However, size and mobility can often affect whether or not radiography is an option for sculptural works. X-rays can also identify cracks and previous repairs to glass and ceramic materials, which is important for assessing the condition. This information can also reveal details about the manufacturing process, which may be instrumental in providing establishing place of manufacture, and possibly also reveal inherent vices that are not visible to the naked eye. Jewelry and other objects with inlaid pieces have been x-rayed to reveal more about their structure.\n\nThe plaster cast of Michelangelo’s \"David\" at the Victoria & Albert Museum was x-rayed revealing that the supports in David’s legs were positioned similarly to that of bones in a human leg. The size of this particular piece required a portable machine to complete the x-rays.\nThe Museum of Applied Arts in Vienna, the , and the New York Historical Society have used x-rays to learn more about the manufacture of art nouveau style glass. In particular, they are investigating differences between Tiffany glass of New York and Austria’s Loetz glass to learn more about differences in the manufacturing process.\n\nIn the x-rays of a wooden power figure at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, conservators discovered that there were hollowed out sections through the center of the sculpture that connected three filled cavities. Information about the network inside of these sculptures has aided curators as they research the function of these pieces. The findings have led to the use of radiography to compare power figures in other collections.\n\nX-rays can reveal information about layers of textiles and stitching patterns. For quilts, for instance, different textile types and other materials are used. These materials are often hidden in the finished quilt. Therefore, x-radiography can provide conservators with useful information. For other textiles X-rays can also provide conservators with information about dyes since metallic mordant has historically been used in the dye making process. Details about stitching patterns can also appear on x-rays. The Victoria & Albert Museum has used x-rays as a tool for several textile conservation projects. \nX-rays of the King George III Golden Jubilee Quilt from 1810 revealed concealed stitching patterns and fabric dyes.\n\nConservators learned more about the complex stitching of the Sundial Coverlet, which dates to 1797, through x-rays.\n\nX-rays were used to understand some of the stains and stitching patterns on an Egyptian tunic, dating to AD 600-799, in the Victoria & Albert collection.\n\nHidden design and structure details were visible on x-rays of pairs of shoes in the V&A’s collection.\n\nArchaeological materials have also benefited from x-rays. X-rays of soil segments have revealed artifacts that have eroded away, leaving them nearly undetectable to the naked eye. Worn and damaged surfaces, which appear unmarked, have yielded inscriptions or other markings on x-rays. Heavily corroded metal objects have also used x-rays to learn more about their original state. Industrial and medical CT scans have also been used by archaeologists to study a variety of artifacts. Underwater archaeologists have utilized x-rays to see what is beneath layers of concretions.\n\nX-rays have been employed to analyze what is under the wrappings of mummies. In addition to providing images of the bones within, x-rays have revealed the location of jewelry and other objects that were buried with the body without disturbing the wrappings.\n\nThe Herculaneum papyri that survived the Vesuvius disaster were excavated and researchers have used x-rays to read their contents. Previous methods involved slowly unrolling the papyrus, which damaged much of the scrolls, some beyond repair.\n\nX-ray technology was used to quickly identify individual coins uncovered in a single container. Researchers did not have to wait for slower, traditional conservation methods to separate and decipher the coins.\n\nX-rays were among the imaging techniques used to uncover lost text on the Archimedes Palimpsest, which is in the collection of the Walters Museum in Baltimore, Maryland. The museum spearheaded an extensive research project on the palimpsest that employed various imaging techniques including ultraviolet, infrared, and x-radiography.\n\nThe heavily corroded Antikythera mechanism, which was uncovered from a shipwreck at the beginning of the 20th century, has been x-rayed several times in an effort to understand how it works.\n"}
{"id": "56987689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56987689", "title": "Saint Stephen (Ghiberti)", "text": "Saint Stephen (Ghiberti)\n\nSaint Stephen is a 2.6 m high bronze statue of saint Stephen by Lorenzo Ghiberti, completed for the Arte della Lana guild in 1427-28. It is now in the Museo di Orsanmichele, although a replica fills its original niche on the exterior of Orsanmichele, where it was one of a cycle of fourteen sculptures, each showing the patron saint of one of the guilds of Florence.\n\n"}
{"id": "47570046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47570046", "title": "Shaun King", "text": "Shaun King\n\nJeffery Shaun King (born September 17, 1979) is an American writer and civil rights activist. He is noted for his use of social media to promote social causes, including the Black Lives Matter movement. He is a columnist for \"The Intercept\". Previously, he was a contributing writer for Daily Kos and a political commentator for \"The Young Turks\". He co-founded the Real Justice PAC in February 2018, which supports progressive candidates running for district attorney offices in 2018.\n\nKing grew up in Versailles, Kentucky. He was raised by his white mother and white presumptive father, Jeffrey King. King grew up believing what his mother later confirmed to him: that his biological father was a light-skinned black man. According to a local police detective, those who knew him were aware of his biracial heritage: \"Anyone from around here who knew him knew he was mixed.\" King attended Huntertown Elementary School and Woodford County High School.\n\nKing attended Morehouse College, a private, historically black men's college in Atlanta, Georgia, where he majored in history. Midway through his education, he had to take a medical leave. Upon his return, he was named an Oprah Winfrey Scholar by Morehouse. Oprah scholars are given financial support and are required to maintain their grade point average and do community service. King fulfilled his community service requirement by tutoring and mentoring students at Franklin Lebby Stanton Elementary School in Atlanta. After graduation in 2002, King was a research assistant for Morehouse history professor Alton Hornsby Jr.\n\nAfter graduation, King was a high school civics teacher for about a year and then became a motivational speaker for Atlanta's juvenile justice system. He was then a pastor at Total Grace Christian Center in DeKalb County, Georgia. In 2008, King founded a church in Atlanta called \"Courageous Church\". He made use of social media to recruit new members and was known as the \"Facebook Pastor\".\n\nIn March 2010, while still a pastor, he founded aHomeinHaiti.org as a subsidiary of Courageous Church and used eBay and Twitter to raise $1.5 million to send tents to Haiti after the 2010 Haiti earthquake. \"Desperate Housewives\" star Eva Longoria was a spokesperson for the campaign. This inspired him to launch TwitChange.com, a charity auction site. TwitChange held Twitter charity auctions on eBay where celebrities offered to retweet winning bidders' tweets in exchange for support of a particular charity. One campaign raised funds to build an orphanage in Bonneau, Haiti. In 2010, TwitChange won the Mashable Award for \"Most Creative Social Good Campaign\".\n\nIn 2012, King resigned from the Courageous Church, citing personal stress and disillusionment. That same year he and web designer Chad Kellough founded HopeMob.org, a charity site that used voting to select a particular person's story and then raise money for that story until its goal was met. The money went to an organization which provided for the person's needs, not to the person individually. After one goal was met, the next story in line would then get funds raised. HopeMob initially raised funds to build their platform in January 2012 on the crowdfunding site Kickstarter. Their campaign raised about $125,000.\n\nIn 2014, he and two co-inventors, Ray Lee and Vincent Tuscano, were awarded U.S. patent 8,667,075, \"System and method for implementing a subscription-based social media platform\". This patent was filed by the startup he founded, @Upfront.\n\nIn 2015, he wrote the self-help book \"The Power of 100\".\n\nOn October 2, 2015, the \"New York Daily News\" announced that it was hiring King to the new position of senior justice writer, where he would focus on reporting and commentary on social justice, police brutality and race relations. He left the Daily News in August 2017.\n\nOn December 28, 2016, Cenk Uygur announced that King had been hired as a political commentator for \"The Young Turks\".\n\nKing has written extensively about incidents in the Black Lives Matter movement, gaining prominence during the events following the shooting of Michael Brown. King wrote an article analyzing the Brown crime scene, and argued that the evidence suggested that officer Darren Wilson's life was not in danger during the shooting.\n\nKing became a contributing blogger for the politically liberal website the Daily Kos in September 2014. His contributions to the website have focused on civil rights, violence in Ferguson, Missouri, and Charleston, South Carolina, as well as allegations of police brutality, especially toward the black community. In August 2015, he launched Justice Together, an organization to identify police brutality and lobby local politicians for change. To the surprise of many of the group's members, King unilaterally disbanded the organization in the fall of 2016. \n\nKing announced that he would leave the Democratic Party after the 2016 election due to allegations of corruption and lack of neutrality in the party during the primaries.\n\nIn September 2016, King proposed an Injustice Boycott for later that year in December.\n\nIn an October 11, 2017 article in \"The Washington Post\", Shaun King was credited with leading a successful months-long and far-reaching social media campaign which led to the identification and arrest of three of the men behind the August 12, 2017 assault on DeAndre Harris during the Unite the Right rally. 18-year-old Daniel P. Borden from Mason, Ohio; 33-year-old Alex Michael Ramos of Marietta, Georgia; and 22-year-old Jacob Scott Goodwin from Ward, Arkansas, were arrested for the parking garage beating. \"The Washington Post\" described how the attack on Harris became a \"symbol of the violence and racial enmity that engulfed Charlottesville when white supremacists, Klan members and neo-Nazis clashed with counterprotesters.\" Two were subsequently convicted while two others are awaiting trial.\n\nHarris was later served with an arrest warrant sought by 48-year-old Harold Crews, North Carolina's League of the South chairman and a real estate lawyer, who alleged that Harris had hit him with a flashlight during an altercation prior to the Market Street Garage brawl. Crews used a law by which alleged crime victims who have filed a police report can get a warrant if they can convince a local judge to sign it. In the interview with the \"Washington Post\", King responded, \"I am disgusted that the justice system bent over backwards to issue a warrant for one of the primary victims of that day, when I and others had to fight like hell to get that same justice system to prosecute people who were vicious in their attacks against Harris and others. Now, we're seeing white supremacists celebrate on social media, bragging about Harris's arrest. They're hailing this as a victory.\" Harris was later acquitted of misdemeanor assault by a local judge.\n\nOn May 20, 2018 King accused a white Texas state trooper of raping Sherita Dixon-Cole, an African-American human resources professional. The trooper arrested Dixon-Cole for drunk driving and King based his accusation on statements she and her family made to King and Philadelphia lawyer S. Lee Merritt. King's social media posts, which identified the trooper by name, went viral and threats were made against the arresting trooper as well as another trooper with the same last name. The Texas Department of Public Safety released nearly two hours of body cam footage on May 22 that exonerated the trooper. Merritt subsequently apologized for the false accusation and national attention he had brought to the case. King deleted his social media posts after the body cam video was released.\n\nKing has raised money for multiple causes including the Tamir Rice shooting, and various incidents where the Black Lives Matter movement has been involved. Through the fund-raising website, YouCaring.com, King raised $60,000 for Rice's family. Rice, a 12-year-old resident of Cleveland, Ohio, was killed in 2014 by two Cleveland city policemen after they responded to a complaint \"of a male black sitting on a swing and pointing a gun at people.\"\n\nAfter learning the child had not been buried as of five months after the shooting, and the child's mother had moved into a homeless shelter, he started the fund to assist the Rice family; however, family attorney Timothy Kucharski stated in May 2015 that neither he nor the Rice family had heard of King or the fundraiser, nor had they received any money. The money raised was then seized by the court and placed into Tamir Rice's estate instead of being freely available to the family. King and the Rice family's new legal counsel, Benjamin Crump, then started a second charity drive with the proceeds going directly to the family. An additional $25,000 was raised.\n\nHe is married with five children. Three of his children are biological with his wife and two are by custody and adoption. He has had foster children, nieces and nephews stay with him. He has written extensively about his experiences as a biracial person.\n\nOne of his experiences in high school was what he considered a hate crime assault. King stated a \"dozen rednecks\" had beaten him and the injuries caused him to miss a portion of two years of high school due to multiple spinal surgeries. A band teacher, two fellow students from King's high school, as well as King's wife, posted their recollection of the event to Facebook, backing King's account.\n\nThe detective who investigated the case in 1995 described King's injuries as \"minor\". The associated police report noted that the incident revolved around a fight involving only one other student who defended his girlfriend after being allegedly threatened by King. The report did not indicate the incident was racially motivated. There is no mention of a \"hate crime\" either with local police or with the FBI. Keith Broughton, the investigating detective, said he interviewed six witnesses put forth by the school's principal, including a teacher who broke up the fight. All of them described it as a one-on-one altercation.\n\nIn August 2015, Milo Yiannopoulos questioned King's biracial identity in an article for Breitbart News. Yiannopoulos reported that King's birth certificate lists Naomi Fleming and Jeffrey Wayne King (both of whom are white) as King's parents and that a police report cited King's race as \"white.\"\n\nKing said that the man listed on his birth certificate is his adoptive, not biological father, and that his mother has told him his biological father is a light-skinned black man. In various interviews with King's family and classmates conducted by the mainstream media, they stated that they understood King to be biracial growing up. \nAfter being contacted by reporters, the police officer who listed King's race as \"white\" was interviewed by the Independent Journal Review following Yiannopoulos's article for Breitbart. The officer recalled the case and stated that he believed King to be biracial, and that everyone who knew King presumed he was mixed. He went on to state that he had only listed King as white because he is light-skinned, and biracial was not an option on his form. King and his supporters expressed concern that such questions were an attempt to distract from the Black Lives Matter movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1404660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404660", "title": "Shiromani Akali Dal (Panthic)", "text": "Shiromani Akali Dal (Panthic)\n\nThe political party Shiromani Akali Dal (Panthic) was one of several hard-line splinter group, formed as a result of the split in Shiromani Akali Dal (Simranjit Singh Mann)) in 1991. SAD(P) was formed in 1990. It is led by Jasbir Singh Rode. The party was a Sikh-centered political party in the Indian state of Punjab. \n\nIn January 1992 SAD (Panthik) merged with the Shiromani Akali Dal (Longowal). Amarinder however felt marginalized, and in February 1997 the SAD (Panthik) was re-launched. On 12 September 1997 SAD (Panthik) merged with the Indian National Congress and Amarinder Singh became the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) replacing Rajinder Kaur Bhattal.\n"}
{"id": "39272090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39272090", "title": "Six-Part Seating", "text": "Six-Part Seating\n\nSix-Part Seating is a sculpture by Scott Burton, installed at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C. The work, conceived in 1985 and fabricated in 1998, consists of six polished red granite seats that can be arranged in a circle or side-by-side. The seats weigh approximately 1500 pounds each. Visitors are welcome to sit on the seats. The work was given to the National Gallery of Art by the Collectors Committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31242", "title": "Tenchi Muyo!", "text": "Tenchi Muyo!\n\nA fourth OVA series was produced in Japan, with the first collection released on November 30, 2016. The following episodes were planned to be released with an interval of 3 months each, and the final part of the series arrived August 30, 2017.\n\nA twenty-six-episode anime television series called was released in 1995 retelling and expanding upon the original six-episode story. was created in 1997, and is another alternate version of the original story. The latest version of the series called \"Ai Tenchi Muyo!\", was broadcast on Tokyo MX in 2014.\n\nSpin-off series of \"Tenchi Muyo!\" were also created. \"Magical Girl Pretty Sammy\" is an example that was adapted into a manga series. The franchise has also spawned soundtrack CDs and other merchandise released both in Japan and in the United States.\n\nMasaki Kajishima and Hiroki Hayashi, who both worked on the \"Bubblegum Crisis\" OVAs, cite the show as being the inspiration for \"Tenchi Muyo! Ryo-Ohki\". In an interview with AIC, Hayashi described \"Bubblegum Crisis\" as \"a pretty gloomy anime. Serious fighting, complicated human relationships, and dark Mega Tokyo.\" They thought it would be fun to create some comedy episodes with ideas like the girls going to the hot springs, but it was rejected by the sponsors. He also said that there was a trend to have a bunch of characters of one gender and a single one of the other gender, and asked what if Mackey (Sylia's brother) was a main character, reversing the \"Bubblegum\" scenario. This became the basis for \"Tenchi Muyo!\".\n\nIn designing Ryoko, Kajishima and Hayashi were inspired by the American sitcom \"I Dream of Jeannie\" and wanted to use her in their works. In the first episode, Tenchi would open the sealed cave, which was a reference to the Jeannie's bottle, and a \"cute witch\" would jump out. Hayashi said that Tenchi is \"sort of\" based on Mackey, and that after Tenchi and Ryoko, the other girls were designed to be characters to balance the picture in the very early concepts of the series, and that they are original characters.\n\nThe first OVA was titled \"Tenchi Muyo! Ryo-Ohki\" and was created by Masaki Kajishima. The series was divided into 4 OVAs. The fourth OVA released its last episode on September 13, 2017.\n\nHitoshi Okuda wrote two manga series based on the OVA series. The first manga is titled and was published by Kadokawa Shoten and serialized in Dragon Comic Jr. magazine from December 16, 1994 to June 9, 2000. The series was collected into 12 tankōbon volumes. The second series titled was also published by Kadokawa Shoten and serialized in Dragon Comic Age magazine from July 26, 2000 to December 9, 2005. The series was collected into 10 tankōbon volumes.\n\nAfter the first OVA series aired, AIC began looking into TV adaptations beyond the \"Mihoshi Special\". In 1995 , a 26-episode anime television series was created by Hiroshi Negishi, animated by AIC and produced by Pioneer. It was loosely based on the first six episodes of the OVA series and the \"Mihoshi Special\". Two years later, another AIC production followed suit called , which aired through 1997 and also ran 26 episodes. It borrowed characters and some plot devices from the previous incarnations, but with a noticeable art shift and very different concepts, such as centering on Tenchi's high school and being a priest in Tokyo. The most recent series aired in October 2014. The series commemorated the 20th anniversary of the franchise and was sponsored by the city of Takahashi, Okayama.\n\nAn anime film titled \"\", created by Hiroshi Negishi, is a continuation of the \"Tenchi Universe\" TV series. A second film, \"\", was adapted from a novel written by Naoko Hasegawa. The third film, titled \"Tenchi Forever! The Movie\", is the sequel to \"Tenchi Muyo in Love\" and was adapted into a manga titled \"Tenchi Muyo! In Love 2: Eternal Memory\".\n\nKajishima has written several books based on the franchise, including the ongoing \"Tenchi Muyo! GXP: Galaxy Police Transporter\" novel series, the novels \"Shin Tenchi Muyo! Jurai\", \"Shin Tenchi Muyo! Yosho\", and \"Shin Tenchi Muyo! Washu\", and recently, the \"Paradise Wars\" spinoff. There are also a number of dōjinshi by and interviews with Kajishima, as well as a companion book, \"101 Questions and Answers of Tenchi Muyo! Ryo-Oh-Ki\". Naoko Hasegawa wrote a series of thirteen light novels continuing from the first OVA series, starting with \"One Visitor After Another: Hexagram Of Love\" in 1993.\n\nSeven Seas Entertainment has licensed the light novels \"Shin Tenchi Muyo! Jurai\", \"Shin Tenchi Muyo! Yosho\", \"Shin Tenchi Muyo! Washu\" for a North American release.\n\nNumerous video games have been released based on the franchise, such as \"Tenchi Muyo! Game Hen\" for the Super Famicom.\n\nA radio drama was released titled \"Tenchi Muyo! Ryo-ohki Manatsu no Carnival\".\n\nThe first Tenchi spinoff is the \"Magical Girl Pretty Sammy\" series, a magical girl series where Sasami is the lead character. The first use of Pretty Sammy was in the \"Tenchi Muyo! Sound File\", a Japanese-only music video release. The same animation was used in the ending of the \"Tenchi Muyo! Mihoshi Special\". In 1995, a three episode \"Pretty Sammy\" OVA series began, where Sasami, who is known as Sasami Kawai, magically becomes Pretty Sammy. The second \"Pretty Sammy\" series is a TV series, which came out in 1996, also known as \"Magical Project S\". This series is in a separate continuity from the OVA series. Pretty Sammy also appears in the \"Mihoshi Special\" toward the end of Mihoshi's story, and in an alternate reality sequence in the \"Tenchi Universe\" series.\n\nAlso created by Masaki Kajishima, the 1997 OVA series \"Photon: The Idiot Adventures\" is related to the \"Tenchi Muyo! Ryo-ohki\" universe, or more specifically, its recent installment, \"Tenchi Muyo! War on Geminar\". \"Tenchi Muyo! War on Geminar\" copies a number of elements from \"Photon: The Idiot Adventures\", such as Koros, Aho energy, having a princess named Lashara, and a young hero with such strong superhuman abilities he's practically invincible.\n\nThe 1999 series \"Dual! Parallel Trouble Adventure\" is related to the \"Tenchi Muyo! Ryo-ohki\" universe, due to the blatant use of the \"Lighthawk Wings\" associated with the Jurai dynasty in \"Tenchi Muyo\". The creator of both \"Dual!\" and \"Tenchi Muyo!\", Masaki Kajishima, confirmed that \"Dual!\" does relate to \"Tenchi Muyo!\", and is in fact an alternate version of the \"Tenchi Muyo!\" universe. Guardians of Order published a line of English-language \"Tenchi Muyo\" role-playing game books based on the various series in the Tenchi franchise starting in 2000.\n\n\"Tenchi Muyo! GXP\" was released in Japan in 2001. The series takes place during the Kajishima version of the OVA continuity, and is set a year after the events of the third OVA series (despite being released first chronologically). The main character is Seina Yamada, a friend of Tenchi Masaki who accidentally joined the Galaxy Police. Many characters from \"Tenchi Muyo! Ryo-ohki\" make appearances in this series, including the use of Seiryo Tennan as a major character and a full-fledged \"Tenchi Muyo!\" crossover in episode 17.\n\n\"Battle Programmer Shirase\" is a 2003 spin-off of the \"Pretty Sammy\" OVA and TV series, keeping the character Misao Amano from \"Pretty Sammy\", and with the main character Akira Shirase, Misao's great-uncle; however, it bears little in common with either \"Pretty Sammy\" series because it has neither magic, nor Sasami, nor Misao's alter ego Pixy Misa.\n\n\"\" aired in Japan in 2006. The third spin-off featuring Sasami (known here as Sasami Iwakura) as the main character.\n\nThe most recent \"Tenchi\" spin-off series is called \"Tenchi Muyo! War on Geminar\" (aka Isekai no Seikishi Monogatari) which follows the tale of Tenchi's half-brother Kenshi Masaki as he finds himself in a foreign world that uses humanoid machines to fight their wars.\n"}
{"id": "23689073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23689073", "title": "The Shape of Time", "text": "The Shape of Time\n\nThe Shape of Time: Remarks on the History of Things is a short book by George Kubler, published in 1962 by Yale University Press. It presents an approach to historical change which challenges the notion of style by placing the history of objects and images in a larger continuum. Kubler proposes new forms of historical sequencing where objects and images provide solutions to evolving problems. Kubler lays out a perspective where processes of innovation, replication, and mutation are in continuous conversation through time.\n\nKubler begins the chapter by discussing \"The Limitations of Biography\" where he lays out the problems encountered when thinking about objects through the histories of their makers. Within this section he discusses the importance of the point of entrance of the individual maker into the ongoing history of their objects, the role of biological and physical metaphors, and the relation between scientists and artists.\n\nWhen looking back at the history of things, the historian using biological metaphors is not useful. \"Purpose has no place in biology, but history has no meaning without it\" (8). Kubler chose the phrase the \"history of things\" with the intention of rejoining objects with their ideas. The pursuit of the historian is to \"identify and reconstruct\" problems, actions, and solutions. \"We always may be sure that every man-made thing arises from a problem as a purposeful solution\" (8). In \"The Shape of Time\", Kubler considers all man-made objects with the idea that everything is invented because of human desire and need.\n\nWhile both scientists and artists are inventors, one creates solutions to solve physical problems while the other spiritual. Their histories share traits of invention, change and obsolescence (10). Although, at the same time has its extreme differences. The mechanics of a tool may be complicated but is always \"intrinsically simple\" (11). while a work of art may appear simple yet hold the most complex set of thoughts.\n\nKubler also discusses the role of the historian, the nature of actuality, and lays out his idea of self-signals and adherent signals.\n\nTalent and Genius\n\nThe comparisons between talent and genius are explored in regard to time and degree. Leonardo da Vinci and Raphael are provided as examples; to debate between who is more talented is a moot point. Both were extremely talented artists but the other artists of the time \"came late when the feast was over through no fault of their own\" (7). The ideas of 'nature vs. nurture' in regard to the inheritable traits of genius; Kubler concludes that genius is indeed a result of 'nurture' as learning is not a biological concern.\n\nThis chapter begins with Kubler's thoughts about the way objects become sequences. He discusses the difference between the existence of objects created from short term fashionable durations versus objects that provide solutions to concrete or conceptual problems.\n\nPrime Object and Replications\n\nA Prime Object is an original - whether that be an actual object or an idea. Replications are the reproductions of the Prime Object.\nIt is often difficult to trace or track the origin of a prime occurrence as we typically see the offspring and relatives to the prime through replications and mutations. Frequently a perceived Prime Object is the result of subtle changes to a true Prime Object through: social, economic or political influences. The person copying the prime object will never have the same circumstances or feelings as the original maker. Investigating the history of an object or idea can give clues as to how authentic is the Prime Object. It is equally difficult to generate a prime occurrence, which is why replicating one is a more prevalent practice.\nFor example today's hammer is generally various permutations of a \"T\" shaped object with a metal head placed on a wooden handle - if the entire object itself is not metal. The Prime Object of that hammer may have been a rock used to pound something into the ground.\n\nThe problem with classifying a Prime Object is knowing when we are in the presence of a prime object, especially since most (if not all) objects that we come across are really replications of a previous concept. Quite often, Primes are not evident without a significant amount of replications, over a significant period of time, to observe that something influential and indivisible of its parts has presented itself: \"When we consider the class of these great moments, we are usually confronted with dead stars. Even their light has ceased to reach us. We know of their existence only indirectly, by their perturbations, and by the immense detritus of derivative stuff left in their paths.\"\n\nAt this point in Chapter 2 Kubler compares great moments in art and inspired ideas to \"dead stars\". This is an interesting metaphor because of the mythology behind dead stars. On the planet earth it takes many years to see the death of a star, because of the great distance between the stars and the earth. The light of a dead star still can be seen as from earth because when the light began to travel visually to earth the star was still an existence. When applied to that of an idea it is an interesting parallel. Do viewers of art and artists themselves know the style is already dead and outdated because of the constant evolution of ideas and artistic trends, do they know they are seeing a dying star's last light?\n\nMutants\n\nMutations of a Prime Object occur when a replication of the original concept becomes better, or different, than the original. The rock might have been the earliest form of a hammer, but it was improved when someone tied a handle onto the rock so it would swing harder and faster. Another example is a family recipe that is handed down from generation to generation. Each new generation working with that family recipe may make small changes improving the taste or look of the food. The later manifestations of that original recipe tend to be even better than the Prime Source.\n\nAdherent and Self-signals\n\nThe self-signal, as Kubler contends, is the obvious purpose of objects—artwork or tool. The self-signal of a hammer, for example, is its \"mute declaration\" that its intended use is to be grasped by the handle, thus extending the individual's fist through the peen for driving a nail into a plank(24). The adherent signal of the hammer is the patent and protected trademark of a specific manufacturing address stamped on the handle. Using the example of fine art, Kubler explains that the self-signal of a painting is its colors and their arrangement on the two-dimensional surface that alerts the viewer to concede to a visual language that will produce enjoyment. \"Part of the self-signal,\" writes Kubler, \"is that thousands of years of painting still have not exhausted the possibilities of such an apparent simple category of sensation\" (24, 25). The adherent signal of the painting is, for example, the culturally recognized depiction of a well-known myth or historical scene.\n\nKubler points out that neither adherent signals, which speak only of meaning, nor self-signals, which prove only existence, are enough to assign value to a tool or artwork. The combination of the two is key. As Kubler explains, \"...existence without meaning seems terrible in the same degree as meaning without existence seems trivial\" (25).\n\nSerial Appreciation\n\nKubler declares that nearly everything is based from an original object. Whether the copy, manipulated or not, is better or worse than the original ultimately does not matter; The object is still a copy. However, it is up to the maker to decide how to mutate the original as well as to create another domain for the object. The maker is the one who subconsciously creates boundaries on the object thus limiting its full potential.\n\nKubler notes that art has \"an unmistakable erosion\" (46) that wears down any work of art. This 'erosion' is particularly caused from the artist's failing to describe the process that was needed to obtain the finished piece as well as \"the steps in the artist's elaboration of his conceptions.\" Some of these descriptions may be trivial but what lies between the trivial and the factual is the work.\n\nSolitary and Gregarious Artist\n\nKubler says that \"Today the artist is neither a rebel nor an entertainer.\"(53) he explains how art is affected by different personalities. He explains how more social personalities work well in music and theatre while introverted personalities are more common in visual art. However, even within visual art a certain amount of sociability allows for artists to be more in tune with their clients and rivals. The social artist has even been used as a kind of entertainment in royal houses. He has also used social characteristics to rebel. However, Kubler ends the section saying that the artist no longer functions as an entertainer or rebel. \"More lonely than ever, the artist today is like Dedalus, the strange artificer of wonderful and frightening surprises for his immediate circle.\"(53)\nThe revelation of the prime is often revealed in hindsight when history presents itself distant and more easily observed. The momentary actions of our everyday lives are herald by a much greater force of previous history. Therefore each action is a compression and replication of the past. The unique personality reforms the replica as prime by an erosion of its former manifestation understanding of its conceptual replication and places it within contemporary language.\n\nThis chapter is concerned with the use of things and examines the point when they become less viable and gradually discarded. There are several topics that Kubler addresses in this chapter: invention and variation, replication, discard and retention. Society is hurt by both too much replication and too much invention. Stagnation occurs when ideas and objects are perpetually replicated, and chaos ensues when society is bombarded with numerous inventions. In discussing artistic invention, Kubler makes an important distinction between artistic invention and useful invention. Kubler states, \"In rough terms, artistic invention is one among many ways of altering the set of the mind, while useful invention marks out the scope of the knowledge the instrument was previously designed to encompass\"(66). Kubler shows that there is a certain complicated logic to the propagation of things, and it is important to follow the different patterns of change in ideas and things.\n\nKubler considers several ideas surrounding the development of things in the world. He examines the ways in which our conceptions of time and our attitudes toward change affect the invention, replication, discard, and retention of objects and discusses useful and artistic invention. These concepts are differentiated in their effect upon humans; thus, artistic inventions change perceptions of our reality and our situation within it, while useful inventions hew more to an alteration of our quotidian needs and concerns based in our physical concrete experiences. Kubler asserts that society dislikes change to a degree that militates against invention, resulting in a circumstance where it is only those few who escape the bonds of \"convention\" who produce true inventions.\n\nHe posits two manners of this production. The first has to do with the meeting of previously divergent information whose conflux results in a new awareness of solutions or the coming together of \"practice\" and \"principle.\" The second way in which things develop is more resonant of pure invention, in that the inventor creates solely by means of his own engagement with his milieu: the invention. In this case, the invention is experientially and theoretically untied to earlier thinking. Kubler states that an artistic invention does not relate to previous solutions in a formal sequence as readily as a useful invention will.\n\nThe useful object, because of its very nature, will proceed by smaller incremental steps to advance through its refinements and toward its greater complexity. Therefore, in Kubler's thinking, there may be no perceptible links between two iterations in an artistic sequence of things, the transformations apparently being magical or immediate, while we may easily apprehend the links in a chain of useful inventions. Replication of the object, in Kubler's terms, is rife with a natural variation produced through inevitable minute changes within the production process. It is thus impossible to reproduce an object with exactitude, which in Kubler's mind results in an inexorable \"drift\" away from the object's manifestation at inception. Kubler notes that this movement of a replica over time may be either toward or away from quality. If a replica moves toward betterment, it may arise from our natural wish to improve upon a model, or native talent in a practitioner. When a replica's quality decreases, it may be the result either of economic factors, or the manufacturer's lack of ability in comprehending the whole of the object. The replica, according to Kubler, has to do with regular occurrences, of things which happen at regular intervals; thus, it is time-based. The invention, on the other hand, appertains to the historical and to variations and change within the object. Kubler contends that invention without replication \"would approach chaos\", whereas extended replication without the intervention of invention would conclude in \"formlessness\".\n\nKubler claims that we tend to retain the artistic or aesthetic object for a longer time than a useful object (resulting in a longer duration of the sequence) because the useful object can only fulfill one function in our world, whereas an artistic object, in its appeals to our metaphysical lives, and its putative enhancement of them, remains of greater value to us. This more total disappearance of the useful object results in more thoroughly closed sequences. (An example of a closed sequence in the world of the useful object is the buggy whip, which was rendered obsolete through the invention of the automobile.) The ways in which we think about change and respond to our environments, in Kubler's estimation, govern not only the rate at which inventions are made, but also whether we choose to retain them, and to what extent they remain in our consciousness after the fact.\n\nFast and Slow Happening\n\nTime has a multitude of different \"categorical varieties\" (84). From the \"gravitational field[s]...in the cosmos\" to the \"different systems of intervals and periods\" of humans, animals, and nature, time is so diverse that it is hard to \"describe all the...kinds of duration\" (84). There are artifacts that \"are so durable\" they may be able to surpass time (84). In looking at the \"history more than the future of man-made things\", we can make an assessment of how to deduce the \"rate of change\" (84). Social Scientists use a \"quantitative\" model, in describing \"material culture\" (84). They look at things in broad strokes to make \"assessments of cultural effort\" (84). However, the existence of so many replicas and copies in our world, clue us into \"an altogether different rule of order\", in which the public feeds and functions off of the things that already exist (85). We have been working off of prime objects since the beginning of time. We must look at the \"sequence of forms\" which have stemmed from the original primes, in order to \"explore the nature of change\" (85).\n\nInventors and Artists Role in the Progress of Ideas\n\nKubler discusses how the general public is not interested in furthering the progress of culture. The masses are content with copies or replications of an idea; these copies are still recognizably linked to the thought, object, or idea being copied. This general public merely requires modest updating, little change of the actual object. \"Public demand recognizes only what exists, unlike the inventors and artists whose minds turn more upon future possibilities, whose speculations and combinations obey an altogether different rule of order, described here as a linked progression of experiments composing a formal sequence\" (85). Artists challenge the limitations of their historical time and view change as an opportunity to create a unique occurrence. These occurrences are only possible within the structure of a formal sequence of development. These new inventions need to make sense, or to answer a need, or curiosity on the part of the artist/inventor. Within these new events change can occur gradually or quickly. Kubler examines the temperaments of artists and how temperament influences their work. Some artists work within the current tradition, finding new ways to progress its development into uncharted territories. This artist is able to perceive what others have not and expands upon the current environment. \"Sometimes the map seems finished: nothing more can be added; the class of forms looks closed until another patient man takes a challenge from the seemingly complete situation, and succeeds once more in enlarging it\" (88). Kubler juxtaposes these artists with a different type of artist that he refers to as the \"versatile men\" (88). He describes how the entrance of the versatile artist occurred during an historical time of \"social and technical renovation\" (88). These \"fast happening\" artists push the artistic tradition far into the future; these prolific artists are \"adumbrating another new series before the one in which they are engaged has been played out\" (89). Artists are the visionaries throughout the continuum of time.\n\nThe Shapes of Time\n\nIt is difficult to categorize time due to the lack of a measuring constant or \"fixed scale.\" Kubler notes, \"History has no periodic table of elements, and no classification of types or species . . . no theory of temporal structure\" (96). A series of events that occur quickly is described as dense; whereas, \"a slow succession with many interruptions is sparse\" (97). In regard to art history, works of art occur in sequences and are grouped together to be understood in a certain way. He uses paintings of the Twelve Apostles as an example (\"'Apostolado\" by Zurbarán); individually they can stand alone, but grouped together there is more of a sense of the artist's intention of how they are to be viewed and interpreted: \"usually our comprehension of a thing is incomplete until its positional value can be reconstructed\" (97). In addition to art, architecture (as well as public fixtures or monuments) is to be read the same way, \"buildings in their settings are a sequence of spaces best seen in an order intended by the architect\" (97).\n\nPeriods and Their Lengths\n\nKubler already establishes that there are two standards of duration, \"absolute age\" and \"systematic age.\" He sees these as different \"envelopes\" of time established by the content of each segment of time. He focuses on the overall shapes of time at this point, rather than a personal diminutive shape of time, that may span one human life or a collective duration of more life spans. Using a broad scope of time segments, Kubler divides the segments into \"families\" that scale from smallest to largest. The smallest being the \"annual crop of fashions\" which he backs up with contemporary and historical patterns, and the largest, which he says are few, are our defined periods in history: \"Western Civilization, Asiatic culture, prehistoric to barbarian and primitive societies\" (91). The areas of time in-between the smallest and the largest are measured by our calendars and our mathematical methods of measurement.\n\nKubler returns to the manageable interval of a year, thinking that this span is a known and workable measurement of duration as a tractable system of time duration. He explains how different cultures measure in different modes or segments: the Roman lustrum, a census occurring every five years or the Aztec practice of measuring in durations of 52 years (4 sections of 13 years instead of a 100-year century) called Calendar Round. The Aztecs understood this duration to be an estimate of an adult life, a perception of time duration as it relates to human life duration.\n\nKubler seems to like the idea of linking time duration to human life or generational spans, that perhaps a century could be thought of as three life spans. He uses fashion, the smallest family of time duration, as a resurfacing measurement suggesting that the interest and tastes of the older grandparent generation would appeal to the youngest generation, the grandchildren. This would make for a reusable system of measurement duration neatly tucked into a century; however, Kubler notes that most of these smaller events of happenings cycle through just about every fifty years, halfway through a century and are subject to other segments of happenings outside the specific event.\n\nThe Indiction as Module\n\nThese thoughts of life or generational duration can be thought of as outdated due to the increase in our current life expectancy. Technological advances have increased our quality of life; therefore, there is no calendrical duration correlating with individual life expectancies. When analyzing the age classes (infant, child, adolescent, young adult, mature adult, and old adult), Kubler applies the working lifetime for an artist: 60 years, with 50 of the years at full working capacity. The artist's life can be categorized into four periods:\"preparation, early, middle, and late maturity, each lasting about 15 years, resemble the indictions of the Roman calendar\" (102). Very similar to the duration of an artist is the time required to develop significant movements in art history. It takes about 60 years for the development of an object and another 60 years for its \"first systematic applications\" (102). Kubler uses changes in Greek vase painting; the appearance changed in two stages, about every sixty years. Examples that support his 60-year theory are the doubled 60-year durations, such as the Mayan sculpture in the fourth and fifth centuries as well as Japanese woodblock prints around 1650.\n\nNeil McGregor, director of the British Museum, stated, \"Kubler's telling of the history of things remains a key text, his vision a compelling mixture of the habitual and the poetic in human behavior. For him, human creativity is a constantly repeated attempt to refine answers to a set of questions that change only slowly. But this universal habit is punctuated by the great works of art, ways of doing and seeing that he compares to stars, influencing, shaping and illuminating even after they have been destroyed.\"\n\nPriscilla Colt of the Dayton Art Museum reviewed \"The Shape of Time\" in \"Art Journal\" in 1963. She identified five major themes in the work including a critical views of, \"1) the separation of the history of art and the history of science... 2) all cyclical theories of cultural change, especially those using the biological metaphor of life stages... 3) the biological and narrative approaches to art history... 4) the severing of meaning and form... 5) the concept of style as a means of classification... .\" Another crucial aspect she identifies is the \"coexistence of several formal sequences within one object and, it follows, in a given present\". She uses the example of a cathedral, which embodies traits from different sequences and systems. The ability of this theory to return the object to the flow of time, rather than pin it to a certain time period, is appealing to her. She regards Kubler's theory of the Prime Object as a difficulty in the theory, due to the difficulty in describing the qualities that a Prime Object embodies. If we are reduced to describing objects in terms of the traits that they possess, \"are we not arriving again at an historical concept very close to that of style in some of its more refined interpretations?\" Colt believes that \"The Shape of Time\" \"makes proposals rather than putting forth adamant claims\" and believes that it will \"evoke fruitful thinking along productively new lines\".\n\nKubler himself responded to this review nearly 20 years later in the journal \"Perspecta\" in an article titled \"The Shape of Time. Reconsidered\". He claimed that Priscilla Colt provided \"a summary of the book so concise that I have nothing to change in it, nor would I do it better\".\n\nSeveral prominent artists in were influenced by and wrote about the ideas presented in \"The Shape of Time\". The abstract painter Ad Reinhardt reviewed Kubler's book in an article for \"ArtNews\" in 1966. This article, along with many other of Reinhardt's writings were included in \"Art as Art\" edited by Barbara Rose, University of California Press, 1991. Another artist who referred to \"The Shape of Time\" in his writing and thinking was the seminal land artist Robert Smithson. In an article titled \"Quasi-Infinities and the Waning of Space\" Smithson discusses Kubler's thoughts about time and communication across time, as well as his theory of Prime Objects.\n\nIn her book titled \"Robert Smithson: Learning from New Jersey and Elsewhere\", Anne Reynolds highlights George Kubler's influence on Smithson and how differently from Kubler he believed in an \"equality between... prime [objects] and the replication\"(147). Pages 145, 146, and 147 have additional examples about the ways in which Smithson disagreed with Kubler's theories about \"prime object\" and \"replica mass\".\n\nConceptual Artist John Baldessari made a painting based on Kubler's ideas titled \"Painting for Kubler\" 1966-68, which sold May 13, 2009 at Christie's \"Post-war and Contemporary Art Evening Sale\" for $1,874,500. \n\nA frequent concern about Kubler's text is that it is a dense and difficult read. Kubler himself acknowledges this issue but asserts that without the controversy the book would lack a relevant and defining feature. In his 1982 lecture, \"The Shape of Time, Reconsidered\" which appears in \"Perspecta\" (Volume 19, MIT Press) Kubler writes, \"I was surprised, while preparing this lecture, to notice how, among my friends who had read the book, a division into two groups appeared. Both groups are equally discerning and educated, and as far as I can tell, equal in numbers. One group is eager to say that they don't understand a word of it, and there are artists and historians among them. Those of the other group claim that they understood it all on first reading, without difficulty. Of course I believe them both, without understanding the combination that separates them so sharply. Perhaps distinctive and contrasting features in the comprehension of works of art are responsible. What I say speaks to some, but not to others. Some are ready, and others are not. But when both someday find that they agree in understanding it, that day may be its last as a book alive in the dissension over its intelligibility.\" Kubler's text has been compared by some to reading a work by Shakespeare; spending time with it rewards the diligent reader. Once recurrent themes are grasped, the language becomes more comprehensible.\n\nThere have been comments that Kubler offers many variables and possibilities but no concrete and identifiable system of categorizing frames of codification. Kubler's opinion that there is no one system, but many systems to judge a particular event, is intrinsic to his view that trying to identify a closed system would be hypocritical to his primary premise. All events and ways to measure these events evolve and shift with calendrical time.\n\nIn considering Kubler's model for the 60 year change duration (Chapter 4) it has been suggested that a new type of cycle might be considered and researched considering that the advent of the new media millennia was just in the infant stages at the 1st edition of \"The Shape Of Time.\" With the advent of new distribution systems and accessibility to a new paradigm of existence, the 60-year cycle may be an outdated model. For example, hyper-acceleration and globalization of knowledge may induce change as rapidly as the internet changed the way we shop, acquire information, or share ideas.\n\n6.Shales, Ezra. \"Tools are like songs.\" New York City. Studio Potter, vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 23–26, Jun 2008. He quotes from Martin Heidegger, Clement Greenberg, George Kubler and others. DAAI: Design and Applied Arts Index\n\n7.Starling, Simon. \"Five Thousand Years (Some Notes, Some Works)\".\nJournal of Modern Craft, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 117–131, Mar 2008.\n\"with recourse to the work of, among others, George Kubler.\"\n8.Czekalski, Jan.\"Goya's 'Third of May', and the aporias of research on the genetic relations of paintings.\" Ars, vol. 40, no. 1, pp. 87–102, 2007\nreferences critics Ernst Gombrich, Göran Hermerén and George Kubler.\n\n9.Tipton, Gemma. \"Without you there isn't anything: Patrick Ireland in an interview with Gemma Tipton.\" Circa, no. 115, Spring 2006, pp. 48–53, \"... with reference to the philosophers Roland Barthes, Susan Sontag, and George Kubler.\"\n\n10.Walsh, Mary Ruth. \"A labyrinth in a box: Aspen 5+6.\" Circa (Ireland), no. 104, Summer 2003, pp. 42–6, 5 illus.\n\" She refers to the influence of George Kubler's book The Shape of Time (1962) on O'Doherty\"\n\n11.Auther, Elissa.\"Classification and its consequences: the case of 'fiber art'\"\nAmerican Art (U.S.A.), vol. 16, no. 3, Fall 2002, pp. 2–9, 5 illus. (1 colour) bibliog\n\"... noting her influence by the art historian George Kubler.\"\n\n12.Alberro, Alex. \"Inside the white box.\" Artforum (U.S.A.), vol. 40, no. 1, Sept. 2001, pp. 170–4, 20 illus. (4 colour)\n... References Dan Graham, William Burroughs, Roland Barthes, George Kubler, Susan Sontag, and Samuel Beckett.\n\n13.Renato, Op. \"Design: de gustibus est disputandum de Fusco(Italy), no. 106, Sept. 1999, pp. 5-14\n\"... artistic design on television and on the Internet, quotes George Kubler's theory on the inevitable coexistence of individuality and conformity.\"\n\n14.Nulli, Andrea. Bosoni, Giampiero. \"The invisible chain.\" \n... anonymous design with reference to the theories of George Kubler and Henri Focillon.\"\n\n15.Reinhardt, Ad. \"Trois textes [Three texts]\" Cahiers du Musée National d'Art Moderne (France), no. 49, Autumn 1994, pp. 80–9, 3 illus.\n\"... Art as Art (1966) and 'Art and history', a review of George Kubler's book The Shape of Time, which appeared in ARTnews (Jan. 1966), all by the American artist Ad Reinhardt. The three texts illustrate aspects of the artist's theory of art\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5915468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5915468", "title": "Ti Kwan Leep", "text": "Ti Kwan Leep\n\nTi Kwan Leep is a sketch comedy recording by the Canadian comedy troupe The Frantics. It appears on their 1987 album \"Boot to the Head\".\n\nIn the skit, an Eastern martial arts master starts off his class by explaining the basic philosophy of a fictional martial art called \"Ti Kwan Leep\" (take one leap). An impatient student in the class named Ed Gruberman interrupts the master, wanting to skip the philosophy and learn how to \"beat people up\". After the master is interrupted several times while using Zen koans to demonstrate the virtue of patience, he agrees to show Gruberman some moves, and gives him a \"Boot to the Head\" (a catch phrase of the troupe that started in their 1984 sketch \"Last Will and Temperament\"). The situation rapidly escalates until the entire class is left beaten and broken; their moans and groans then become the \"Ommmmm\" of meditation.\n\nThis skit is followed on the album (and often when played on the radio) with the song \"Boot to the Head\". The two were combined into a single track for disc 2 of the \"Dr. Demento 20th Anniversary Collection\", with a line from \"Ti Kwan Leep\" containing a mild expletive edited out.\n\nEd Gruberman also appears in the Frantics' skit \"Army Careers.\" The name was subsequently used for the main character in the 2009 film \"Super Capers: The Origins of Ed and the Missing Bullion.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2069315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069315", "title": "Turks and Caicos Creole", "text": "Turks and Caicos Creole\n\nTurks and Caicos Creole is an English-based creole spoken in the Turks and Caicos Islands, a West Indian British overseas territory in the Bahama Archipelago.\n\nThe Turks and Caicos Island Creole variety has been not been studied and may be directly related to Bahamian Creole. As of 1995, the number of speakers of Turks and Caicos Islands Creole is around 10,700, although decreasing and endangered. It seems to be shifting to a variety form of Caribbean English. Turks and Caicos Islands Creole does not have an official status.\n\n"}
{"id": "40849496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849496", "title": "Woman, Culture, and Society", "text": "Woman, Culture, and Society\n\nThe book features a number of widely cited essays including:\nThe title of the book alludes to the gendered nature of a prior anthropological text, \"Man, Culture, and Society\".\n\n"}
