{"id": "13594858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13594858", "title": "1993 in radio", "text": "1993 in radio\n\nThe year 1993 in radio involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39195573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39195573", "title": "AION Linguistica", "text": "AION Linguistica\n\nAION Linguistica is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by the Università degli studi di Napoli “L'Orientale” and established in 1959. The current editor-in-chief is Alberto Manco.\n\nAION Linguistica was established in 1959 by . The second series was published from 1979 until 2011 in the former “Dipartimento di Studi del Mondo classico e del Mediterraneo antico” and it was edited by Domenico Silvestri, while Alberto Manco assumed the secretaryship in 2000. The current editor-in-chief is Alberto Manco. Since 2012, the broader breadth of the new “Dipartimento di Studi Letterari, Linguistici e Comparati” widened the journal scope and therefore it is actually concerned with larger areas of Linguistics.\n\nAmong the authors contributing to the journal since its foundation there are Walter Belardi, Françoise Bader, Jürgen Untermann, Michel Lejeune, , Giuliano Bonfante, Helmut Rix, Aldo Luigi Prosdocimi, José Luis García Ramón and many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "2214717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2214717", "title": "Associative meaning", "text": "Associative meaning\n\nAccording to the semantic analysis of Geoffrey Leech, the associative meaning of an expression has to do with individual mental understandings of the speaker. They, in turn, can be broken up into five sub-types: \"connotative, collocative, social, affective and reflected\" (Mwihaki 2004).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2828932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2828932", "title": "Chhau dance", "text": "Chhau dance\n\nChhau dance, also spelled as Chau or Chhau, is a semi classical Indian dance with martial, tribal and folk traditions, with origins in the eastern Indian states of Jharkhand, West Bengal, and Odisha. It is found in three styles named after the location where they are performed, i.e. the Purulia Chau of Bengal, the Seraikella Chau of Jharkhand, and the Mayurbhanj Chau of Odisha.\n\nThe dance ranges from celebrating martial arts, acrobatics and athletics performed in festive themes of a folk dance, to a structured dance with religious themes found in Shaivism, Shaktism and Vaishnavism. The costumes vary between the styles, with Purulia and Serakeilla using masks to identify the character. The stories enacted by Chhau dancers include those from the Hindu epics the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, the Puranas and other Indian literature.\n\nThe dance is traditionally an all males troupe, regionally celebrated particularly during spring every year, and may be a syncretic dance form that emerged from a fusion of classical Hindu dances and the traditions of ancient regional tribes. The dance is egalitarian and brings together people from diverse socio-economic backgrounds in a festive and religious spirit.\n\nChhau is a folk dance of Rarh region. It may have been derived from Sanskrit \"Chāya\" (shadow, image or mask). Others link it to the Sanskrit root \"Chadma\" (disguise), yet others such as Sitakant Mahapatra suggest it is derived from \"Chhauni\" (military camp, armor, stealth) in Odia language.\n\nThe Chhau dance is mainly performed during festivals in the region of Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha, especially the spring festival of Chaitra Parva and in which the whole community participates. The Purulia Chhau dance is celebrated during the Sun festival.\n\nMasks form an integral part of Chhau dance in Purulia and Seraikella styles. The knowledge of dance, music and mask-making is transmitted orally. The Chhau dance found in northern Odisha does not use mask during the dance, but they do when the artists first appear on the stage for introduction to the audience.\n\nThe two styles of Chhau dance that use masks, blend within it forms of both dance and martial practices employing mock combat techniques (called \"khel\"), stylized gaits of birds and animals (called \"chalis\" and \"topkas\") and movements based on the chores of village housewives (called \"uflis\"). This form of the Chhau dance, states Mohan Khokar, has no ritual or ceremonial meaning, it is a form of community celebration and entertainment.\n\nThe dance is performed by male dancers, at night in an open space, called \"akhada\" or \"asar\". The dance is rhythmic and set to traditional folk music, played on the reed pipes \"mohuri\" and shehnai. A variety of drums accompany the music ensemble including the dhol (a cylindrical drum), \"dhumsa\" (a large kettle drum) and \"kharka\" or \"chad-chadi\". The themes for these dances include local legends, folklore and episodes from the Ramayana and Mahabharata and other abstract themes.\n\nThe Seraikella Chhau developed in Seraikela, the present day administrative headquarters of the Seraikela Kharsawan district of Jharkhand, the Purulia Chhau in Purulia district of West Bengal and the Mayurbhanj Chhau in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha. The most prominent difference among the three subgenres is regarding the use of masks. While, the Seraikela and Purulia subgenres of Chhau use masks during the dance, the Mayurbhanj Chhau uses none.\n\nThe Seraikella Chhau's technique and repertoire were developed by the erstwhile nobility of this region who were both its performers and choreographers, and in the modern era people from all backgrounds dance it. The Seraikella Chhau is performed with symbolic masks, and the acting establishes the role the actor is playing. The Purulia Chhau uses extensive masks shaped in the form of the character being played; for example, a lion character has a face mask of lion and body costumes too with the actor walking on all fours. These masks are crafted by potters who make clay images of Hindu gods and goddesses and is primarily sourced from the Purulia district of West Bengal. In the Mayurbhanj Chhau is performed without masks and is technically similar to the Seraikella Chhau.\n\nIn 2010 the Chhau dance was inscribed in the UNESCO's Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n\nThe Government of Odisha established a Government Chhau Dance Centre in 1960 in Seraikella and the Mayurbhanj Chhau Nritya Pratisthan at Baripada in 1962. These institutions engage in training involving local gurus, artists, patrons and representatives of Chhau institutions and sponsor performances. The Chaitra Parva festival, significant to the Chhau Dance, is also sponsored by the state government. The Sangeet Natak Akademi has established a National Centre for Chhau Dance at Baripada, Odisha.\n\nThe Hindi film Barfi! has several scenes that features the Purulia Chhau in it. The Hindi film Lootera opens with a Chhau dance sequence inspired by the Ramayana.\n\nThe most interesting fact, Purulia Chhau Dance is listed on UNESCO’s world heritage list of dances. The main difference between the Purulia chhau and Odisha chhau is in the use of the mask. Purulia chhau used the mask in dance, but Odisha does not have the mask thereby adding facial expression with body movement and gesture. Traditionally, the chhau dance held in the mid march when one agricultural circle end and a new circle begins. Purulia chhau dancer were the earthy and theatrical mask which represent the mythological characters. After making the shape of mask with clay, it is coloured and decorated with Shola and other things.\n\nThe Chhau mask of Purulia is registered under Geographical Indications. As the basic difference of Purulia Chhau the mask is very unique and traditional fact.\n\nThese chhau masks are made by the artists from the Sutradhar community. The making of a mask goes through various stages. 8-10 layers of soft paper, immersed in diluted glue, are pasted one after another on the mould before the mud mould is dusted with fine ash powder. The facial features are made of clay. A special layer of mud and cloth is applied and the mask is then sun-dried. After this, the mould is polished and the second round of sun drying is done before separating the layers of cloth and paper from the mould. After finishing and drilling of holes for the nose and eyes, the mask is colored and decorated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48337435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48337435", "title": "Conditional release", "text": "Conditional release\n\nConditional release is a method of release from incarceration that is contingent upon obeying conditions of release under threat of revocation (return to prison) under reduced due process protections.\" Hence, conditional release can be a synonym of parole and is sometimes viewed as a less restrictive alternative to hospitalizing psychiatric patients.\n"}
{"id": "28958759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28958759", "title": "Crouching Boy", "text": "Crouching Boy\n\nCrouching Boy is a sculpture of the great Renaissance Italian painter and sculptor Michelangelo, preserved today at the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, it is the only work by Michelangelo in the Hermitage Museum.\n\nThe \"Crouching Boy\" is a 54 cm marble sculpture and shows a boy, naked and turned in on himself, perhaps pulling out a thorn from his foot. Even if the statue is not well finished, facial features, hair and body shapes are easily recognizable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1403199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1403199", "title": "Democratic National Conference", "text": "Democratic National Conference\n\nDemocratic National Conference, a splinter group of the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference. DNC was formed by Ghulam Muhammad Sadiq in 1957. \n\nDNC later joined the Communist Party of India, then Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI(M)) and then Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) (CPI(ML)). The group was led by Ram Piara Saraf.\n"}
{"id": "211583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211583", "title": "Dubai", "text": "Dubai\n\nDubai ( ; \"\", ) is the largest and most populous city in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). On the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf, it is the capital of the Emirate of Dubai, one of the seven emirates that make up the country.\n\nDubai is a global city and business hub of the Middle East. It is also a major global transport hub for passengers and cargo. Oil revenue helped accelerate the development of the city, which was already a major mercantile hub, but Dubai's oil reserves are limited and production levels are low: today, less than 5% of the emirate's revenue comes from oil. A growing centre for regional and international trade since the early 20th century, Dubai's economy today relies on revenues from trade, tourism, aviation, real estate, and financial services.\n\nDubai has attracted world attention through large construction projects and sports events, in particular the world's tallest building, the Burj Khalifa. Companies in Dubai have in the past been criticised for human rights violations against labourers.\n\n, Dubai was the most expensive city in the Middle East. In 2014, Dubai's hotel rooms were rated as the second most expensive in the world.\n\nMany theories have been proposed as to the origin of the word \"Dubai\". One theory suggests the word was used to describe the \"souq\", which was similar to the \"souq\" in Ba. An Arabic proverb says \"Daba Dubai\" (), meaning \"They came with a lot of money.\" According to Fedel Handhal, a scholar on the UAE's history and culture, the word Dubai may have come from the word \"daba\" () (a past tense derivative of \"yadub\" (), which means \"to creep\"), referring to the slow flow of Dubai Creek inland. The poet and scholar Ahmad Mohammad Obaid traces it to the same word, but to its alternative meaning of \"baby locust\" () due to the abundant nature of locusts in the area before settlement. An inhabitant or native of the city is a \"Dubaian\".\n\nThe history of human settlement in the area now defined by the United Arab Emirates is rich and complex, and points to extensive trading links between the civilisations of the Indus Valley and Mesopotamia, but also as far afield as the Levant. Archaeological finds in the emirate of Dubai, particularly at Al-Ashoosh, Al Sufouh and the notably rich trove from Saruq Al Hadid show settlement through the Ubaid and Hafit periods, the Umm Al Nar and Wadi Suq periods and the three Iron Ages in the UAE. The area was known to the Sumerians as \"Magan\", and was a source for metallic goods, notably copper and bronze.\n\nThe area was covered with sand about 5,000 years ago as the coast retreated inland, becoming part of the city's present coastline. Pre-Islamic ceramics have been found from the 3rd and 4th centuries. Prior to the introduction of Islam to the area, the people in this region worshiped \"Bajir\" (or \"Bajar\"). After the spread of Islam in the region, the Umayyad Caliph of the eastern Islamic world invaded south-east Arabia and drove out the Sassanians. Excavations by the Dubai Museum in the region of \"Al-Jumayra\" (Jumeirah) found several artefacts from the Umayyad period.\n\nThe earliest recorded mention of Dubai is in 1095 in the \"Book of Geography\" by the Andalusian-Arab geographer Abu Abdullah al-Bakri. The Venetian pearl merchant Gasparo Balbi visited the area in 1580 and mentioned Dubai (\"Dibei\") for its pearling industry.\n\nDubai is thought to have been established as a fishing village in the early 18th century and was, by 1822, a town of some 7–800 members of the Baniyas tribe and subject to the rule of Sheikh Tahnun bin Shakhbut of Abu Dhabi.\n\nIn 1833, following tribal feuding, members of the Al Bu Falasah tribe seceded from Abu Dhabi and established themselves in Dubai. The exodus from Abu Dhabi was led by Obeid bin Saeed and Maktoum bin Butti, who became joint leaders of Dubai until Ubaid died in 1836, leaving Maktum to establish the Maktoum dynasty.\n\nDubai signed the General Maritime Treaty of 1820 along with other Trucial States, following the British punitive expedition against Ras Al Khaimah of 1819, which also led to the bombardment of the coastal communities of the Persian Gulf. This led to the 1853 Perpetual Maritime Truce. Dubai also – like its neighbours on the Trucial Coast – entered into an exclusivity agreement in which the United Kingdom took responsibility for the emirate's security in 1892.\n\nIn 1841, a smallpox epidemic broke out in the Bur Dubai locality, forcing residents to relocate east to Deira. In 1896, fire broke out in Dubai, a disastrous occurrence in a town where many family homes were still constructed from \"barasti\" - palm fronds. The conflagration consumed half the houses of Bur Dubai, while the district of Deira was said to have been totally destroyed. The following year, more fires broke out. A female slave was caught in the act of starting one such blaze and was subsequently put to death.\n\nIn 1901, Maktoum bin Hasher Al Maktoum established Dubai as a free port with no taxation on imports or exports and also gave merchants parcels of land and guarantees of protection and tolerance. These policies saw a movement of merchants not only directly from Lingeh, but also those who had settled in Ras Al Khaimah and Sharjah (which had historical links with Lingeh through the Al Qasimi tribe) to Dubai. An indicator of the growing importance of the port of Dubai can be gained from the movements of the steamer of the Bombay and Persia Steam Navigation Company, which from 1899 to 1901 paid five visits annually to Dubai. In 1902 the company's vessels made 21 visits to Dubai and from 1904 on, the steamers called fortnightly – in 1906, trading seventy thousand tonnes of cargo. The frequency of these vessels only helped to accelerate Dubai's role as an emerging port and trading hub of preference. Lorimer notes the transfer from Lingeh 'bids fair to become complete and permanent', and also that the town had by 1906 supplanted Lingeh as the chief entrepôt of the Trucial States.\n\nThe 'great storm' of 1908 struck the pearling boats of Dubai and the coastal emirates towards the end of the pearling season that year, resulting in the loss of a dozen boats and over 100 men. The disaster was a major setback for Dubai, with many families losing their breadwinner and merchants facing financial ruin. These losses came at a time when the tribes of the interior were also experiencing poverty. In a letter to the Sultan of Muscat in 1911, Butti laments, 'Misery and poverty are raging among them, with the result that they are struggling, looting and killing among themselves.'\n\nDubai's geographical proximity to Iran made it an important trade location. The town of Dubai was an important port of call for foreign tradesmen, chiefly those from Iran, many of whom eventually settled in the town. By the beginning of the 20th century, it was an important port. At that time, Dubai consisted of the town of Dubai and the nearby village of Jumeirah, a collection of some 45 \"areesh\", or palm leaf, huts housing settled Bedouin of the Bani Yas and Manasir tribes.\n\nDubai was known for its pearl exports until the 1930s; the pearl trade was damaged irreparably by the 1929 Great Depression and the innovation of cultured pearls. With the collapse of the pearling industry, Dubai fell into a deep depression and many residents lived in poverty or migrated to other parts of the Persian Gulf.\n\nIn the early days since its inception, Dubai was constantly at odds with Abu Dhabi. In 1947, a border dispute between Dubai and Abu Dhabi on the northern sector of their mutual border escalated into war. Arbitration by the British resulted in a cessation of hostilities.\n\nDespite a lack of oil, Dubai's ruler from 1958, Sheikh Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum, used revenue from trading activities to build infrastructure. Private companies were established to build and operate infrastructure, including electricity, telephone services and both the ports and airport operators. An airport of sorts (a runway built on salt flats) was established in Dubai in the 1950s and, in 1959, the emirate's first hotel, the Airlines Hotel, was constructed. This was followed by the Ambassador and Carlton Hotels in 1968.\n\n1959 saw the establishment of Dubai's first telephone company, 51% owned by IAL (international Aeradio Ltd) and 49% by Sheikh Rashid and local businessmen and in 1961 both the electricity company and telephone company had rolled out operational networks. The water company (Sheikh Rashid was Chairman and majority shareholder) constructed a pipeline from wells at Awir and a series of storage tanks and, by 1968, Dubai had a reliable supply of piped water.\nOn 7 April 1961, the Dubai-based MV Dara, a five thousand ton British flagged vessel that plied the route between Basra (Iraq), Kuwait and Bombay (India), was caught in unusually high winds off Dubai. Early the next morning in heavy seas off Umm al-Quwain, an explosion tore out the second class cabins and started fires. The captain gave the order to abandon ship but two lifeboats capsized and a second explosion occurred. A flotilla of small boats from Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman and Umm al-Quwain picked up survivors but in all 238 lives were lost in the disaster.\n\nConstruction of Dubai's first airport was started on the Northern edge of the town in 1959 and the terminal building opened for business in September 1960. The airport was initially serviced by Gulf Aviation (flying Dakotas, Herons and Viscounts) but Iran Air commenced services to Shiraz in 1961.\n\nIn 1962 the British Political Agent noted that \"Many new houses and blocks of offices and flats are being built... the Ruler is determined, against advice [from the British] to press on with the construction of a jet airport... More and more European and Arab firms are opening up and the future looks bright.\"\n\nIn 1962, with expenditure on infrastructure projects already approaching levels some thought imprudent, Sheikh Rashid approached his brother in law, the Ruler of Qatar, for a loan to build the first bridge crossing Dubai's creek. This crossing was finished in May 1963 and was paid for by a toll levied on the crossing from the Dubai side of the creek to the Deira side.\n\nBOAC was originally reluctant to start regular flights between Bombay and Dubai, fearing a lack of demand for seats. However, by the time the asphalt runway of Dubai Airport was constructed in 1965, opening Dubai to both regional and long haul traffic, a number of foreign airlines were competing for landing rights. In 1970 a new airport terminal building was constructed which included Dubai's first duty-free shops.\n\nThroughout the 1960s Dubai was the centre of a lively gold trade, with 1968 imports of gold at some £56 million. This gold was, in the vast majority, re-exported - mainly to customers who took delivery in international waters off India. The import of gold to India had been banned and so the trade was characterised as smuggling, although Dubai's merchants were quick to point out that they were making legal deliveries of gold and that it was up to the customer where they took it.\n\nIn 1966, more gold was shipped from London to Dubai than almost anywhere else in the world (Only France and Switzerland took more), at 4 million ounces. Dubai also took delivery of over $15 million-worth of watches and over 5 million ounces of silver. The 1967 price of gold was $35 an ounce but its market price in India was $68 an ounce - a healthy markup. Estimates at the time put the volume of gold imports from Dubai to India at something like 75% of the total market.\n\nAfter years of exploration following large finds in neighbouring Abu Dhabi, oil was eventually discovered in territorial waters off Dubai in 1966, albeit in far smaller quantities. The first field was named 'Fateh' or 'good fortune'. This led to an acceleration of Sheikh Rashid's infrastructure development plans and a construction boom that brought a massive influx of foreign workers, mainly Asians and Middle easterners. Between 1968 and 1975 the city's population grew by over 300%.\n\nAs part of the infrastructure for pumping and transporting oil from the Fateh field, located offshore of the Jebel Ali area of Dubai, two 500,000 gallon storage tanks were built, known locally as 'Kazzans', by welding them together on the beach and then digging them out and floating them to drop onto the seabed at the Fateh field. These were constructed by the Chicago Bridge and Iron Company, which gave the beach its local name (Chicago Beach), which was transferred to the Chicago Beach Hotel, which was demolished and replaced by the Jumeirah Beach Hotel in the late 1990s. The Kazzans were an innovative oil storage solution which meant super-tankers could moor offshore even in bad weather and avoided the need to pipe oil onshore from Fateh, which is some 60 miles out to sea.\n\nDubai had already embarked on a period of infrastructural development and expansion. Oil revenue, flowing from 1969 onwards supported a period of growth with Sheikh Rashid embarking on a policy of building infrastructure and a diversified trading economy before the emirate's limited reserves were depleted. Oil accounted for 24% of GDP in 1990, but had reduced to 7% of GDP by 2004.\n\nCritically, one of the first major projects Sheikh Rashid embarked upon when oil revenue started to flow was the construction of Port Rashid, a deep water free port constructed by British company Halcrow. Originally intended to be a four-berth port, it was extended to sixteen berths as construction was ongoing. The project was an outstanding success, with shipping queuing to access the new facilities. The port was inaugurated on 5 October 1972, although its berths were each pressed into use as soon as they had been built. Port Rashid was to be further expanded in 1975 to add a further 35 berths before the larger port of Jebel Ali was constructed.\n\nPort Rashid was the first of a swath of projects designed to create a modern trading infrastructure, including roads, bridges, schools and hospitals.\n\nDubai and the other 'Trucial States' had long been a British protectorate where the British government took care of foreign policy and defence, as well as arbitrating between the rulers of the Eastern Gulf, the result of a treaty signed in 1892, the 'Exclusive Agreement'. This was to change with PM Harold Wilson's announcement, on 16 January 1968, that all British troops were to be withdrawn from 'East of Aden'. The decision was to pitch the coastal emirates, together with Qatar and Bahrain, into fevered negotiations to fill the political vacuum that the British withdrawal would leave behind.\n\nThe principle of union was first agreed between the ruler of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, and Sheikh Rashid of Dubai on 18 February 1968 meeting in an encampment at Argoub Al Sedirah, near Al Semeih, a desert stop between the two emirates. The two agreed to work towards bringing the other emirates, including Qatar and Bahrain, into the union. Over the next two years, negotiations and meetings of the rulers followed -often stormy- as a form of union was thrashed out. The nine-state union was never to recover from the October 1969 meeting where heavy-handed British intervention resulted in a walk-out by Qatar and Ras Al Khaimah. Bahrain and Qatar dropped out of talks, leaving six of the seven 'trucial' emirates to agree on union on 18 July 1971.\n\nOn 2 December 1971, Dubai, together with Abu Dhabi, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al-Quwain and Fujairah joined in the Act of Union to form the United Arab Emirates. The seventh emirate, Ras Al Khaimah, joined the UAE on 10 February 1972, following Iran's annexation of the RAK-claimed Tunbs islands.\n\nIn 1973, Dubai joined the other emirates to adopt a uniform currency: the UAE dirham. In that same year, the prior monetary union with Qatar was dissolved and the UAE Dirham was introduced throughout the Emirates.\n\nDuring the 1970s, Dubai continued to grow from revenues generated from oil and trade, even as the city saw an influx of immigrants fleeing the Lebanese civil war. Border disputes between the emirates continued even after the formation of the UAE; it was only in 1979 that a formal compromise was reached that ended disagreements. The Jebel Ali port was established in 1979. JAFZA (Jebel Ali Free Zone) was built around the port in 1985 to provide foreign companies unrestricted import of labour and export capital. Dubai airport and the aviation industry also continued to grow.\n\nThe Gulf War of 1990 had a negative financial effect on the city, as depositors withdrew their money and traders withdrew their trade, but subsequently, the city recovered in a changing political climate and thrived. Later in the 1990s, many foreign trading communities—first from Kuwait, during the Gulf War, and later from Bahrain, during the Shia unrest—moved their businesses to Dubai. Dubai provided refuelling bases to allied forces at the Jebel Ali Free Zone during the Gulf War, and again during the 2003 Invasion of Iraq. Large increases in oil prices after the Gulf War encouraged Dubai to continue to focus on free trade and tourism.\n\nDubai is situated on the Persian Gulf coast of the United Arab Emirates and is roughly at sea level ( above). The emirate of Dubai shares borders with Abu Dhabi in the south, Sharjah in the northeast, and the Sultanate of Oman in the southeast. Hatta, a minor exclave of the emirate, is surrounded on three sides by Oman and by the emirates of Ajman (in the west) and Ras Al Khaimah (in the north). The Persian Gulf borders the western coast of the emirate. Dubai is positioned at and covers an area of , which represents a significant expansion beyond its initial designation due to land reclamation from the sea.\n\nDubai lies directly within the Arabian Desert. However, the topography of Dubai is significantly different from that of the southern portion of the UAE in that much of Dubai's landscape is highlighted by sandy desert patterns, while gravel deserts dominate much of the southern region of the country. The sand consists mostly of crushed shell and coral and is fine, clean and white. East of the city, the salt-crusted coastal plains, known as \"sabkha\", give way to a north-south running line of dunes. Farther east, the dunes grow larger and are tinged red with iron oxide.\n\nThe flat sandy desert gives way to the Western Hajar Mountains, which run alongside Dubai's border with Oman at Hatta. The Western Hajar chain has an arid, jagged and shattered landscape, whose mountains rise to about in some places. Dubai has no natural river bodies or oases; however, Dubai does have a natural inlet, Dubai Creek, which has been dredged to make it deep enough for large vessels to pass through. Dubai also has multiple gorges and waterholes, which dot the base of the Western Al Hajar mountains. A vast sea of sand dunes covers much of southern Dubai and eventually leads into the desert known as The Empty Quarter. Seismically, Dubai is in a very stable zone—the nearest seismic fault line, the Zagros Fault, is from the UAE and is unlikely to have any seismic impact on Dubai. Experts also predict that the possibility of a tsunami in the region is minimal because the Persian Gulf waters are not deep enough to trigger a tsunami.\n\nThe sandy desert surrounding the city supports wild grasses and occasional date palms. Desert hyacinths grow in the \"sabkha\" plains east of the city, while acacia and ghaf trees grow in the flat plains within the proximity of the Western Al Hajar mountains. Several indigenous trees such as the date palm and neem as well as imported trees such as the eucalypts grow in Dubai's natural parks. The houbara bustard, striped hyena, caracal, desert fox, falcon and Arabian oryx are common in Dubai's desert. Dubai is on the migration path between Europe, Asia and Africa, and more than 320 migratory bird species pass through the emirate in spring and autumn. The waters of Dubai are home to more than 300 species of fish, including the hammour. The typical marine life off the Dubai coast includes tropical fish, jellyfish, coral, dugong, dolphins, whales and sharks. Various types of turtles can also be found in the area including the hawksbill turtle and green turtle, which are listed as endangered species.\n\nDubai Creek runs northeast-southwest through the city. The eastern section of the city forms the locality of Deira and is flanked by the emirate of Sharjah in the east and the town of Al Aweer in the south. The Dubai International Airport is located south of Deira, while the Palm Deira is located north of Deira in the Persian Gulf. Much of Dubai's real-estate boom is concentrated to the west of Dubai Creek, on the Jumeirah coastal belt. Port Rashid, Jebel Ali, Burj Al Arab, the Palm Jumeirah and theme-based free-zone clusters such as Business Bay are all located in this section. Dubai is notable for sculpted artificial island complexes including the Palm Islands and The World archipelago.\n\nDubai has a hot desert climate. Summers in Dubai are hot, windy, and humid, with an average high around and overnight lows around in the hottest month, August. Most days are sunny throughout the year. Winters are cool with an average high of and overnight lows of in January, the coldest month. Precipitation, however, has been increasing in the last few decades, with accumulated rain reaching per year. Dubai summers are also known for the very high humidity level, which can make it very uncomfortable for many with exceptionally high dewpoints in summer. The highest recorded temperature in Dubai is , reached in July 1996.\n\nDubai has been ruled by the Al Maktoum family since 1833; the emirate is a constitutional monarchy. Dubai citizens participate in the electoral college to vote representatives to the Federal National Council of the UAE. The ruler, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, is also the Vice President and Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates and member of the Supreme Council of the Union (SCU). Dubai appoints 8 members in two-term periods to the Federal National Council (FNC) of the UAE, the supreme federal legislative body.\n\nThe Dubai Municipality (DM) was established by the then-ruler of Dubai, Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum, in 1954 for purposes of city planning, citizen services and upkeep of local facilities. DM is chaired by Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum, deputy ruler of Dubai, and comprises several departments such as the Roads Department, Planning and Survey Department, Environment and Public Health Department and Financial Affairs Department. In 2001, Dubai Municipality embarked on an e-Government project with the intention of providing 40 of its city services through its web portal, [dubai.ae]. Thirteen such services were launched by October 2001, while several other services were expected to be operational in the future. Dubai Municipality is also in charge of the city's sanitation and sewage infrastructure.\n\nThe UAE has a Minister of Happiness, appointed by Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum. The UAE has also appointed a Minister of Tolerance to promote tolerance as a fundamental value of the UAE, a country filled with a diverse range of faiths and ethnicities, and also a Minister for Youth Affairs.\n\nThe Dubai Police Force, founded in 1956 in the locality of Naif, has law enforcement jurisdiction over the emirate. The force is under direct command of Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum.\n\nDubai and Ras al Khaimah are the only emirates that do not conform to the federal judicial system of the United Arab Emirates. The emirate's judicial courts comprise the Court of First Instance, the Court of Appeal, and the Court of Cassation. The Court of First Instance consists of the Civil Court, which hears all civil claims; the Criminal Court, which hears claims originating from police complaints; and Sharia Court, which is responsible for matters between Muslims. Non-Muslims do not appear before the Sharia Court. The Court of Cassation is the supreme court of the emirate and hears disputes on matters of law only.\n\nKissing in certain places is illegal and can result in deportation. Adult non-Muslims are allowed to consume alcohol in licensed venues, typically within hotels, or at home with the possession of an alcohol license. Restaurants outside hotels in Dubai are typically not permitted to sell alcohol. Like other parts of the world, drinking and driving is illegal.\n\nHuman rights organisations have heavily criticised violations of human rights in Dubai.\n\nSome of the 250,000 foreign labourers in the city have been alleged to live in conditions described by Human Rights Watch as \"less than humane\". The mistreatment of foreign workers was a subject of the difficult-to-make documentary, \"Slaves in Dubai\" (2009). The Dubai government has denied labour injustices and stated that the watchdog's (Human Rights Watch) accusations were 'misguided'. The filmmaker explained in interviews how it was necessary to go undercover to avoid discovery by the authorities, who impose high fines on reporters attempting to document human rights abuses, including the conditions of construction workers. Towards the end of March 2006, the government had announced steps to allow construction unions. UAE labour minister Ali al-Kaabi said: \"Labourers will be allowed to form unions.\"\n\nFreedom of speech in Dubai is limited, with both residents and citizens facing severe sanctions from the government for speaking out against the royal family or local laws and culture. Most of the low paid labours are victims of human trafficking or forced labour while some women are even trafficked into the growing sex trade in Dubai, a centre of human trafficking and prostitution.\n\nDubai is one of the safest cities in the world. The Security Industry Regulatory Agency classified the crimes into six categories. These crime include theft, forced robbery, domestic burglary, fraud, sexual assault and abuse, and criminal damages.\n\nAs per \"Gulf News\", Dubai Police stated that the crime in Dubai is reduced by fifteen percent during 2017. However the cases of drugs operation increased by eight percent. Major-General Abdullah Khalifa Al Merri, Commander-in-Chief of Dubai Police, hailed the force which solved 86 percent of criminal cases.\n\nThe statistics also indicated that murder crimes dropped from 0.5 in 2016 to 0.3 in 2017 for every 100,000 population, while violent and aggressive crimes in the past 5 years went from 2.2 crimes per 100,000 and dropped to 1.2 by the end of 2017, pointed out Al Mansouri. General crimes have decreased since 2013, registering around 0.2 by the end of 2017. Robberies went from 3.8 in 2013 to 2.1 by the end of last year, while kidnapping cases also dropped from 0.2 in 2013 to 0.1 in 2017.\n\nVehicle thefts in 2013 were 3.8 per 100,000 population, and fell to 1.7 in 2017. All the stolen vehicles were also recovered after being smuggled to neighboring countries, in cooperation with the competent authorities there. According to the US Bureau of Diplomatic Security, petty theft, pick pocketing, scams, and sexual harassment still occur although they are usually not violent and weapons are not involved.\n\nCurrently, Dubai is the ninth safest city in the world.\n\nAccording to the census conducted by the Statistics Centre of Dubai, the population of the emirate was 1,771,000 , which included 1,370,000 males and 401,000 females. , the population is 2,789,000. The region covers . The population density is 408.18/km – more than eight times that of the entire country. Dubai is the second most expensive city in the region and 20th most expensive city in the world.\n\n, only about 15% of the population of the emirate was made up of UAE nationals, with the rest comprising expatriates, many of whom either have been in the country for generations or were born in the UAE. Approximately 85% of the expatriate population (and 71% of the emirate's total population) was Asian, chiefly Indian (51%) and Pakistani (16%); other significant Asian groups include Bangladeshis (9%) and Filipinos (3%). There is a sizable community of Somalis numbering around 30,000, as well as other communities of various nationalities. A quarter of the population (local and foreign) reportedly traces their origins to Iran. In addition, 16% of the population (or 288,000 persons) living in collective labour accommodation were not identified by ethnicity or nationality, but were thought to be primarily Asian. There are over 100,000 British expatriates in Dubai, by far the largest group of Western expatriates in the city. The median age in the emirate was about 27 years. In 2014, there were estimated to be 15.54 births and 1.99 deaths per 1,000 people. There are other Arab nationals, including GCC nationals.\n\nArabic is the national and official language of the United Arab Emirates. The Gulf dialect of Arabic is spoken natively by the Emirati people. English is used as a second language. Other major languages spoken in Dubai due to immigration are Malayalam, Hindi-Urdu (or Hindustani), Gujarati, Persian, Sindhi, Tamil, Punjabi, Pashto, Bengali, Balochi, Tulu, Kannada, Sinhala, Marathi, Telugu, Tagalog and Chinese, in addition to many other languages.\n\nArticle 7 of the UAE's Provisional Constitution declares Islam the official state religion of the UAE. The government subsidises almost 95% of mosques and employs all Imams; approximately 5% of mosques are entirely private, and several large mosques have large private endowments. All mosques in Dubai are managed by the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department also known as \"Awqaf\" under the Government of Dubai and all Imams are appointed by the Government. Any person held preaching racism, religious hatred or promoting religious extremism is usually jailed and deported.\n\nDubai also has large Christian, Hindu, Sikh, Bahá'í, Buddhist and other religious communities residing in the city.\n\nNon-Muslim groups can own their own houses of worship, where they can practice their religion freely, by requesting a land grant and permission to build a compound. Groups that do not have their own buildings must use the facilities of other religious organisations or worship in private homes. Non-Muslim religious groups are permitted to advertise group functions openly and distribute various religious literature. However, outright proselytising is strictly prohibited under penalty of criminal prosecution, imprisonment and deportation for engaging in behaviour offensive to Islam. Catholics are served pastorally by the Apostolic Vicariate of Southern Arabia. British preacher Reverend Andrew Thompson claimed that the United Arab Emirates is one of the most tolerant places in the world towards Christians, and that it is easier to be a Christian in the UAE, than in the UK.\n\nOne of the world's fastest growing economies, Dubai's gross domestic product is projected at US$107.1 billion, with a growth rate of 6.1% in 2014. Although a number of core elements of Dubai's trading infrastructure were built on the back of the oil industry, revenues from oil and natural gas account for less than 5% of the emirate's revenues. It is estimated that Dubai produces of oil a day and substantial quantities of gas from offshore fields. The emirate's share in the UAE's total gas revenues is about 2%. Dubai's oil reserves have diminished significantly and are expected to be exhausted in 20 years. Real estate and construction (22.6%), trade (16%), \"entrepôt\" (15%) and financial services (11%) are the largest contributors to Dubai's economy.\n\nDubai's non-oil foreign trade stood at $362 billion in 2014. Of the overall trade volumes, imports had the biggest share with a value of $230 billion while exports and re-exports to the emirate stood at $31 billion and $101 billion respectively.\n\nBy 2014, China had emerged as Dubai's largest international trading partner, with a total of $47.7 billion in trade flows, up 29% from 2013. India was second among Dubai's key trading partners with a trade of $29.7 billion, followed by the United States at $22.62 billion. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was Dubai's fourth trading partner globally and first in the GCC and Arab world with a total trade value of $14.2 billion. Trade with Germany in 2014 totalled $12.3, Switzerland and Japan both at $11.72 billion and UK trade totalled $10.9 billion.\nHistorically, Dubai and its twin across Dubai Creek, Deira (independent of Dubai City at that time), were important ports of call for Western manufacturers. Most of the new city's banking and financial centres were headquartered in the port area. Dubai maintained its importance as a trade route through the 1970s and 1980s. Dubai has a free trade in gold and, until the 1990s, was the hub of a \"brisk smuggling trade\" of gold ingots to India, where gold import was restricted. Dubai's Jebel Ali port, constructed in the 1970s, has the largest man-made harbour in the world and was ranked seventh globally for the volume of container traffic it supports. Dubai is also a hub for service industries such as information technology and finance, with industry-specific free zones throughout the city. Dubai Internet City, combined with Dubai Media City as part of TECOM (Dubai Technology, Electronic Commerce and Media Free Zone Authority), is one such enclave, whose members include IT firms such as Hewlett Packard Enterprise, HP Inc., Google, EMC Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Microsoft, Dell and IBM, and media organisations such as MBC, CNN, BBC, Reuters, Sky News and AP.\n\nThe government's decision to diversify from a trade-based, oil-reliant economy to one that is service- and tourism-oriented made property more valuable, resulting in the property appreciation from 2004 to 2006. A longer-term assessment of Dubai's property market, however, showed depreciation; some properties lost as much as 64% of their value from 2001 to November 2008. The large-scale real estate development projects have led to the construction of some of the tallest skyscrapers and largest projects in the world such as the Emirates Towers, the Burj Khalifa, the Palm Islands and the most expensive hotel, the Burj Al Arab. Dubai's property market experienced a major downturn in 2008 and 2009 as a result of the slowing economic climate. By early 2009, the situation had worsened with the Great Recession taking a heavy toll on property values, construction and employment. This has had a major impact on property investors in the region, some of whom were unable to release funds from investments made in property developments. , Dubai's foreign debt was estimated at approximately $80 billion, although this is a tiny fraction of the sovereign debt worldwide. Dubai real estate and UAE property experts believe that by avoiding the mistakes of the past, Dubai's realty market can achieve stability in the future.\nThe Dubai Financial Market (DFM) was established in March 2000 as a secondary market for trading securities and bonds, both local and foreign. As of fourth quarter 2006, its trading volume stood at about 400 billion shares, worth $95 billion in total. The DFM had a market capitalisation of about $87 billion. The other Dubai-based stock exchange is NASDAQ Dubai, which is the international stock exchange in the Middle East. It enables a range of companies, including UAE and regional small and medium-sized enterprises, to trade on an exchange with an international brand name, with access by both regional and international investors.\n\nDMCC (Dubai Multi Commodities Centre) was established in 2002. It's world's fastest growing free zone and been nominated as \"Global Free Zone of the Year 2016\" by The Financial Times fDi Magazine.\n\nDubai is also known as the City of Gold, because a major part of the economy is based on gold trades, with Dubai's total gold trading volumes in H1 2011 reaching 580 tonnes, with an average price of US$1,455 per troy ounce.\n\nA \"City Mayors\" survey ranked Dubai 44th among the world's best financial cities in 2007, while another report by \"City Mayors\" indicated that Dubai was the world's 27th richest city in 2012, in terms of purchasing power parity (PPP). Dubai is also an international financial centre (IFC) and has been ranked 37th within the top 50 global financial cities as surveyed by the MasterCard Worldwide Centres of Commerce Index (2007), and 1st within the Middle East. Since it opened in September 2004, the Dubai IFC has attracted, as a regional hub, leading international firms and set-up the NASDAQ Dubai which lists equity, derivatives, structured products, Islamic bonds (sukuk) and other bonds. The Dubai IFC model is an independent risk-based regulator with a legislative system consistent with English common law.\n\nIn 2012, the Global City Competitiveness Index by the Economist Intelligence Unit ranked Dubai at No. 40 with a total score of 55.9. According to its 2013 research report on the future competitiveness of cities, in 2025, Dubai will have moved up to 23rd place overall in the Index. Indians, followed by Britons and Pakistanis are the top foreign investors in Dubai realty.\n\nDubai has launched several major projects to support its economy and develop different sectors. These include Dubai Fashion 2020, and Dubai Design District, expected to become a home to leading local and international designers. The AED 4 billion first phase of the project will be complete by January 2015.\n\nTourism is an important part of the Dubai government's strategy to maintain the flow of foreign cash into the emirate. Dubai's lure for tourists is based mainly on shopping, but also on its possession of other ancient and modern attractions. , Dubai was the 7th most visited city of the world based on air traffic and the fastest growing, increasing by a 10.7% rate. Dubai hosted 14.9 million overnight visitors in 2016, and is expected to reach 20 million tourists by 2020.\nDubai has been called the \"shopping capital of the Middle East\". Dubai alone has more than 70 shopping centres, including the world's largest shopping centre, Dubai Mall. Dubai is also known for the traditional souk districts located on either side of its creek. Traditionally, dhows from East Asia, China, Sri Lanka, and India would discharge their cargo and the goods would be bargained over in the souks adjacent to the docks. Dubai Creek played a vital role in sustaining the life of the community in the city and was the resource which originally drove the economic boom in Dubai. , Dubai creek has been proposed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Many boutiques and jewellery stores are also found in the city. Dubai is also referred to as \"the City of Gold\" as the Gold Souk in Deira houses nearly 250 gold retail shops.\n\nDubai Creek Park in Dubai Creek also plays a vital role in Dubai tourism as it showcase some of the most famous tourist attractions in Dubai such as Dolphinarium, Cable Car, Camel Ride, Horse Carriage and Exotic Birds Shows.\n\nDubai has a wide range of parks like Safa park, Mushrif park, Hamriya park etc. Each park is uniquely distinct from the other. Mushrif park showcases different houses around the world. A visitor can check out the architectural features of the outside as well as the inside of each house.\n\nSome of the most popular and nicest beaches in Dubai are Umm Suqeim Beach, Al Mamzar Beach Park, JBR Open Beach, Kite Beach, Black Palace Beach and Royal Island Beach Club.\n\nSki Dubai is a large indoor skiing facility at Mall of the Emirates, offering snowboarding, ski lessons, a children's play area and a café. It opened in November 2005 and houses the world's largest indoor snow park. It is operated by Majid Al Futtaim Leisure & Entertainment.\n\nOn 2 November 2011, four cities had their bids for Expo 2020 already lodged, with Dubai making a last-minute entry. The delegation from the Bureau International des Expositions, which visited Dubai in February 2013 to examine the Emirate's readiness for the largest exposition, was impressed by the infrastructure and the level of national support. In May 2013, Dubai Expo 2020 Master Plan was revealed. Dubai then won the right to host Expo 2020 on 27 November 2013. The event will bring huge economic benefits by generating activities worth billions of dirhams and may create over 270,000 jobs.\nThe main site of Dubai Expo 2020 will be a 438-hectare area (1,083 acres), part of the new \"Dubai Trade Centre Jebel Ali\" urban development, located midway between Dubai and Abu Dhabi. Moreover, the Expo 2020 also created various social enlistment projects and monetary boons to the city targeting the year 2020. Such as initiating the world's largest solar project, the real estate upsurge, to focus on the GDP growth and to make Dubai a \"Happy Dubai\" for the people of the city.\n\nDubai has a rich collection of buildings and structures of various architectural styles. Many modern interpretations of Islamic architecture can be found here, due to a boom in construction and architectural innovation in the Arab World in general, and in Dubai in particular, supported not only by top Arab or international architectural and engineering design firms such as Al Hashemi and Aedas, but also by top firms of New York and Chicago. The most recent addition to the magnificent skyline of Dubai is the 150 meter high Dubai Frame (Arabic: برواز دبي) located in Zabeel Park, Dubai. It has been described by \"The Guardian\" as \"the biggest picture frame on the planet\", however is also controversial as the \"biggest stolen building of all time\". It is alleged that the designer Fernando Donis had his intellectual property stolen and was denied credit for the design. \nAs a result of this boom, modern Islamic – and world – architecture has literally been taken to new levels in skyscraper building design and technology. Dubai now has more completed or topped-out skyscrapers higher than , , or than any other city. A culmination point was reached in 2010 with the completion of the Burj Khalifa (Khalifa Tower), now by far the world's tallest building at . The Burj Khalifa's design is derived from the patterning systems embodied in Islamic architecture, with the triple-lobed footprint of the building based on an abstracted version of the desert flower hymenocallis which is native to the Dubai region. The completion of the Khalifa Tower, following the construction boom that began in the 1980s, accelerated in the 1990s, and took on a rapid pace of construction unparalleled in modern human history during the decade of the 2000s, leaves Dubai with the world's tallest skyline . At the Top, Burj Khalifa, the world's highest observatory deck with an outdoor terrace is one of Dubai's most popular tourist attractions, with over 1.87 million visitors in 2013.\n\nThe Burj Al Arab (Arabic: برج العرب, \"Tower of the Arabs\"), a luxury hotel, is frequently described as \"the world's only 7-star\", though its management has said it has never made that claim. A Jumeirah Group spokesperson is quoted as saying: \"There's not a lot we can do to stop it. We're not encouraging the use of the term. We've never used it in our advertising.\" The hotel opened in December 1999.\n\nBurj Khalifa, known as the Burj Dubai before its inauguration, is a high skyscraper in Dubai, and the tallest building in the world. The tower was inspired by the structure of the desert flower \"Hymenocallis\". It was constructed by more than 30 contracting companies around the world with workers of a hundred nationalities. It is an architectural icon. The building opened in 2010.\n\nDubai is home to several man-made islands, most of which were created in the 2000s and 2010s.\n\nThe Palm Jumeirah is an artificial archipelago, created using land reclamation by Nakheel, a company owned by the Dubai government, and designed and developed by Helman Hurley Charvat Peacock/Architects, Inc. It is one of three planned islands called the Palm Islands which extend into the Persian Gulf. The Palm Jumeirah is the smallest and the original of three Palm Islands, and it is located on the Jumeirah coastal area of Dubai. It was built between 2001 and 2006.\n\nOn 14 February 2013, the Dubai Miracle Garden, a flower garden, opened in Dubailand. It is the world's largest flower garden. The garden has a total of 45 million flowers with re-use of waste water through drip irrigation. During the summer seasons from late May to September when the climate can get extremely hot with an average high of about , the garden stays closed.\n\nTransport in Dubai is controlled by the Roads and Transport Authority (RTA), an agency of the government of Dubai, formed by royal decree in 2005. The public transport network has in the past faced congestion and reliability issues which a large investment programme has addressed, including over AED 70 billion of improvements planned for completion by 2020, when the population of the city is projected to exceed 3.5 million. In 2009, according to Dubai Municipality statistics, there were an estimated 1,021,880 cars in Dubai. In January 2010, the number of Dubai residents who use public transport stood at 6%.\n\nFive main routes – E 11 (Sheikh Zayed Road), E 311 (Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Road), E 44 (Dubai-Hatta Highway), E 77 (Dubai-Al Habab Road) and E 66 (Oud Metha Road, Dubai-Al Ain Road, or Tahnoun Bin Mohammad Al Nahyan Road) – run through Dubai, connecting the city to other towns and emirates. Additionally, several important intra-city routes, such as D 89 (Al Maktoum Road/Airport Road), D 85 (Baniyas Road), D 75 (Sheikh Rashid Road), D 73 (Al Dhiyafa Road now named as 2 December street), D 94 (Jumeirah Road) and D 92 (Al Khaleej/Al Wasl Road) connect the various localities in the city. The eastern and western sections of the city are connected by Al Maktoum Bridge, Al Garhoud Bridge, Al Shindagha Tunnel, Business Bay Crossing and Floating Bridge.\n\nThe Public Bus Transport system in Dubai is run by the RTA. The bus system services 140 routes and transported over 109 million people in 2008. By the end of 2010, there will be 2,100 buses in service across the city. In 2006, the Transport authority announced the construction of 500 air-conditioned (A/C ) Passenger Bus Shelters, and planned for 1,000 more across the emirates in a move to encourage the use of public buses.\n\nAll taxi services are licensed by the RTA. Dubai licensed taxis are easily identifiable by their cream bodywork colour and varied roof colours identifying the operator. Dubai Taxi Corporation, a division of the RTA, is the largest operator and has taxis with red roofs. There are five private operators: Metro Taxis (orange roofs); Network Taxis (yellow roofs); Cars Taxis (blue roofs); Arabia Taxis (green roofs); and City Taxis (purple roof). In addition, Dubai Taxi Corporation has a Ladies Taxi service, with pink roofs, which caters exclusively for female passengers, using female drivers. The Dubai International Airport taxi concession is operated by Dubai Taxi Corporation. There are more than 3000 taxis operating within the emirate making an average of 192,000 trips every day, carrying about 385,000 persons. In 2009 taxi trips exceeded 70 million trips serving around 140.45 million passengers.\n\nDubai International Airport (IATA: DXB), the hub for Emirates and flydubai, serves the city of Dubai and other emirates in the country. The airport was the 3rd busiest airport in the world by passenger traffic handling 83.6 million passengers in 2016. The airport is also the busiest airport in the world by international passenger traffic. In addition to being an important passenger traffic hub, the airport is the 7th busiest cargo airport in world, handling 2.37 million tons of cargo in 2014 Emirates is the national airline of Dubai. , it operated internationally serving over 150 destinations in over 70 countries across six continents.\n\nThe development of Al Maktoum International Airport (IATA: DWC) was announced in 2004. The first phase of the airport, featuring one A380 capable runway, 64 remote stands, one cargo terminal with annual capacity for 250,000 tonnes of cargo and a passenger terminal building designed to accommodate five million passengers per year, has been opened. When completed, Dubai World Central-Al Maktoum International will be the largest airport in the world with five runways, four terminal buildings and capacity for 160 million passengers and 12 million tons of cargo.\n\nThe $3.89 billion Dubai Metro project is operational. It consists of two lines (Red line and Green line) which run through the financial and residential areas of the city. The Metro system was partially opened on September 2009. UK-based international service company Serco is responsible for operating the metro. The metro comprises the Green Line, which has 20 stations (8 underground, 12 elevated) and runs from the Etisalat Station to the Creek Station and the Red Line, the major back bone line, which has 29 stations (4 underground, 24 elevated and 1 at ground level) and runs from Rashidiya Station to UAE Xchange Station Jebel Ali. In July 2016 a contract was awarded to add a branch to the Red Line running to the EXPO 2020 site; this extension is due to open in April 2020. A Blue and a Purple Line have also been planned. The Dubai Metro (Green and Blue Lines) will have of track and 43 stations, 37 above ground and ten underground. The Dubai Metro is the first urban train network in the Arabian Peninsula. All the trains run without a driver and are based on automatic navigation.\n\nThe Palm Jumeirah Monorail is a monorail line on the Palm Jumeirah. It connects the Palm Jumeirah to the mainland, with a planned further extension to the Red Line of the Dubai Metro. The line opened on 30 April 2009. It is the first monorail in the Middle East. Two tram systems are expected to be built in Dubai by 2011. The first is the Downtown Burj Khalifa Tram System and the second is the Al Sufouh Tram. The Downtown Burj Khalifa Tram System is a tram service that is planned to service the area around the Burj Khalifa, and the second tram will run along Al Sufouh Road from Dubai Marina to the Burj Al Arab and the Mall of the Emirates.\n\nA tramway located in Al Sufouh, Dubai, will run for along Al Sufouh Road from Dubai Marina to the Burj Al Arab and the Mall of the Emirates with two interchanges with Dubai Metro's Red Line. The first section, a 10.6-kilometer (6.6 mi) long tram line which serves 11 stations, was opened on 11 November 2014, by H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, The Vice-President and Prime Minister of UAE and Ruler of Dubai, with the line opening to the public at 6 am on 12 November 2014.\n\nDubai has announced it will complete a link of the UAE high-speed rail system which will eventually hook up with the whole GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council, also known as Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf) and then possibly Europe. The High Speed Rail will serve passengers and cargo.\n\nThere are two major commercial ports in Dubai, Port Rashid and Port Jebel Ali. Port Jebel Ali is the world's largest man-made harbour, the biggest port in the Middle East, and the 7th-busiest port in the world. One of the more traditional methods of getting across Bur Dubai to Deira is by \"abras\", small boats that ferry passengers across the Dubai Creek, between abra stations in Bastakiya and Baniyas Road. The Marine Transport Agency has also implemented the Dubai Water Bus System. Water bus is a fully air conditioned boat service across selected destinations across the creek. One can also avail oneself of the tourist water bus facility in Dubai. Latest addition to the water transport system is the Water Taxi.\n\nThe UAE culture mainly revolves around traditional Arab culture. The influence of Arab and Islamic culture on its architecture, music, attire, cuisine, and lifestyle is very prominent as well. Five times every day, Muslims are called to prayer from the minarets of mosques which are scattered around the country. Since 2006, the weekend has been Friday and Saturday, as a compromise between Friday's holiness to Muslims and the Western weekend of Saturday and Sunday. Prior to 2006, the weekend was Thursday-Friday.\n\nBecause of the touristic approach of many Dubaites in the entrepreneurial sector and the high standard of living, Dubai's culture has gradually evolved towards one of luxury, opulence, and lavishness with a high regard for leisure-related extravagance. Annual entertainment events such as the Dubai Shopping Festival (DSF) and Dubai Summer Surprises (DSS) attract over 4 million visitors from across the region and generate revenues in excess of $2.7 billion.\n\nDubai is known for its nightlife. Clubs and bars are found mostly in hotels because of liquor laws. \"The New York Times\" described Dubai as \"the kind of city where you might run into Michael Jordan at the Buddha Bar or stumble across Naomi Campbell celebrating her birthday with a multiday bash\".\nThe city's cultural imprint as a small, ethnically homogeneous pearling community was changed with the arrival of other ethnic groups and nationals—first by the Iranians in the early 1900s, and later by Indians and Pakistanis in the 1960s. In 2005, 84% of the population of metropolitan Dubai was foreign-born, about half of them from India.\n\nMajor holidays in Dubai include Eid al Fitr, which marks the end of Ramadan, and National Day (2 December), which marks the formation of the United Arab Emirates.\n\nThe International Festivals and Events Association (IFEA), the world's leading events trade association, has crowned Dubai as \"IFEA World Festival and Event City, 2012\" in the cities category with a population of more than one million. Large shopping malls in the city, such as Deira City Centre, Mirdiff City Centre, BurJuman, Mall of the Emirates, Dubai Mall (the world's largest) and Ibn Battuta Mall as well as traditional Dubai Gold Souk and other \"souks\" attract shoppers from the region.\n\nArabic food is very popular and is available everywhere in the city, from the small \"shawarma\" diners in Deira and Al Karama to the restaurants in Dubai's hotels. Fast food, South Asian, and Chinese cuisines are also very popular and are widely available. The sale and consumption of pork, though legal, is regulated and is sold only to non-Muslims, in designated areas of supermarkets and airports. Similarly, the sale of alcoholic beverages is regulated. A liquor permit is required to purchase alcohol; however, alcohol is available in bars and restaurants within hotels. \"Shisha\" and \"qahwa\" boutiques are also popular in Dubai. Biryani is also a popular cuisine across Dubai with being the most popular among Indians and Pakistanis present in Dubai.\n\nThe inaugural Dubai Food Festival was held between 21 February to 15 March 2014. According to \"Vision\" magazine, the event was aimed at enhancing and celebrating Dubai's position as the gastronomic capital of the region. The festival was designed to showcase the variety of flavours and cuisines on offer in Dubai featuring the cuisines of over 200 nationalities at the festival. The next food festival was held between 23 February 2017 to 11 March 2017.\n\nArabic and Hollywood movies are popular in Dubai (UAE). Since 2004, the city has hosted the annual Dubai International Film Festival which serves as a showcase for Arab film making talent. Musicians Amr Diab, Diana Haddad, Aerosmith, Santana, Mark Knopfler, Rick Ross, Elton John, Pink, Shakira, Celine Dion, Coldplay, Lady Gaga, Jennifer Lopez, Rihanna, Justin Bieber, Selena Gomez and Roxette have performed in the city. Kylie Minogue was reportedly paid $3.5 million to perform at the opening of the Atlantis resort on 20 November 2008. The Dubai Desert Rock Festival was also another major festival consisting of heavy metal and rock artists but is no longer held in Dubai.\n\nPopular films set in Dubai include:\nBalram vs. Tharadas,\nBlack Friday (2004 film),\nBody of Lies (film),\nBoom (film),\nCity of Life,\nDeewane Huye Paagal,\nDubai (2001 film),\nDubai (2005 film),\nHappy New Year (2014 film),\nHungama in Dubai,\nItalians (film),\nNaqaab,\nSilver Bears (film),\nSwitch (2013 film),\nWelcome (2007 film) and\nKung Fu Yoga.\n\nOne of the lesser known sides of Dubai is the importance of its young contemporary art gallery scene. Since 2008, the leading contemporary art galleries such as Carbon 12 Dubai, Green Art, gallery Isabelle van den Eynde, and The Third Line have brought the city onto the international art map. Art Dubai, the growing and reputable art fair of the region is as well a major contributor of the contemporary art scene's development.\n\nThe largest Cinema Hall in UAE is Reel Cinemas located at Dubai Mall. It has 22 screens available with a total of 2800 seats.\n\nThe Dubai Shopping Festival is a yearly event in Dubai. It started in 1995, attracts a lot of visitors from worldwide to visit Dubai and get advantage of the sales during this festival.\n\nIn 2015 it started from 1 January and went until 1 February, but, The Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing in Dubai announced the cessation of all entertainment and musical activities related to the Dubai Shopping Festival for 3 days, starting from Friday, 23 January to Sunday, 25 January due to the death of King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz former ruler of Saudi Arabia.\n\nMany international news agencies such as Reuters, APTN, Bloomberg L.P. and Middle East Broadcasting Center (MBC) operate in Dubai Media City and Dubai Internet City. Additionally, several local network television channels such as Dubai One (formerly Channel 33), and Dubai TV (EDTV) provide programming in English and Arabic respectively. Dubai is also the headquarters for several print media outlets. \"Dar Al Khaleej\", \"Al Bayan\" and \"Al Ittihad\" are the city's largest circulating Arabic language newspapers, while \"Gulf News\", \"Khaleej Times, Khaleej Mag\" and \"7days\" are the largest circulating English newspapers.\n\nEtisalat, the government-owned telecommunications provider, held a virtual monopoly over telecommunication services in Dubai prior to the establishment of other, smaller telecommunications companies such as Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Company (EITC—better known as Du) in 2006. Internet was introduced into the UAE (and therefore Dubai) in 1995. The network has an Internet bandwidth of 7.5 Gbit/s with capacity of 49 STM1 links. Dubai houses two of four Domain Name System (DNS) data centres in the country (DXBNIC1, DXBNIC2). Censorship is common in Dubai and used by the government to control content that it believes violates the cultural and political sensitivities of Emirates. Homosexuality, drugs, and the theory of evolution are generally considered taboo.\n\nInternet content is regulated in Dubai. Etisalat uses a proxy server to filter Internet content that the government deems to be inconsistent with the values of the country, such as sites that provide information on how to bypass the proxy; sites pertaining to dating, gay and lesbian networks, and pornography; and sites originating from Israel. Emirates Media and Internet (a division of Etisalat) notes that , 76% of Internet users are male. About 60% of Internet users were Asian, while 25% of users were Arab. Dubai enacted an Electronic Transactions and Commerce Law in 2002 which deals with digital signatures and electronic registers. It prohibits Internet Service Providers (ISPs) from disclosing information gathered in providing services. The penal code contains official provisions that prohibit digital access to pornography; however, it does not address cyber crime or data protection.\n\nFootball and cricket are the most popular sports in Dubai. Three teams (Al Wasl FC, Shabab Al-Ahli Dubai FC and Al Nasr SC) represent Dubai in UAE Pro-League. Al-Wasl have the second-most number of championships in the UAE League, after Al Ain. Dubai also hosts both the annual Dubai Tennis Championships and The Legends Rock Dubai tennis tournaments, as well as the Dubai Desert Classic golf tournament and the DP World Tour Championship, all of which attract sports stars from around the world. The Dubai World Cup, a thoroughbred horse race, is held annually at the Meydan Racecourse. Dubai also hosts the traditional rugby union tournament Dubai Sevens, part of the Sevens World Series Event pictures of Rugby 7 Dubai 2015. In 2009, Dubai hosted the 2009 Rugby World Cup Sevens. Auto racing is also a big sport in Dubai, the Dubai Autodrome is home to many auto racing events throughout the year. It also features a state-of-the-art indoor and outdoor Kartdrome, popular among racing enthusiasts and recreational riders.\n\nCricket is followed by Dubai's large community of Indians and Pakistanis alongside the residents from other cricket playing nations (Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, England, Australia, South Africa and Nepal). In 2005, the International Cricket Council (ICC) moved its headquarters from London to Dubai. The city has hosted several Pakistan matches and two new grass grounds are being developed in Dubai Sports City. Numerous tournaments also take place in Dubai. Since Pakistan played Australia in a One-Day International in Dubai in 2009, not only have top international teams competed in the city, but the emirate is helping to improve the standard of cricket around the world with the ICC Cricket Academy, a training and coaching facility which is used by the world's leading nations. Pakistan Super League was also played here.\n\nThe Emirati attire is typical of several countries in the Arabian Peninsula. Women usually wear the \"abaya\", a long black robe with a hijab (the head-scarf which covers the neck and part of the head). Some women may add a niqab which cover the mouth and nose and only leaves the eyes exposed. Men wear the \"kandurah\" also referred to as \"dishdasha\" or even \"thawb\" (long white robe) and the headscarf (ghotrah). The UAE traditional ghotrah is white and is held in place by an accessory called \"egal\", which resembles a black cord. The younger Emiratis prefer to wear red and white ghotras and tie it round their head like a turban.\n\nThe above dress code is never compulsory and many people wear western or other eastern clothing without any problems; but prohibitions on wearing \"indecent clothing\" or revealing too much skin are aspects of the UAE to which Dubai's visitors are expected to conform, and are encoded in Dubai's criminal law. The UAE has enforced decency regulations in most public places, aside from waterparks, beaches, clubs, and bars.\n\nThe school system in Dubai follows that of the United Arab Emirates. , there are 79 public schools run by the Ministry of Education that serve Emiratis and expatriate Arab people as well as 145 private schools. The medium of instruction in public schools is Arabic with emphasis on English as a second language, while most of the private schools use English as their medium of instruction. Most private schools cater to one or more expatriate communities.\n\nMore than 15 schools offer an international education using the one or more of the four International Baccalaureate Programmes for students aged 3–19. Several schools have introduced the new IB Career-related Programme that can be combined with a vocational qualification such as a BTEC. The Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC) signed an agreement with the IB in efforts to widen the options offered for parents and to meet the different needs of students in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).\n\nAdditionally a number of schools offer either a CBSE or an Indian Certificate of Secondary Education Indian syllabus. The Indian High School, DPS, DMHS are some examples. Similarly, there are also several reputable Pakistani schools offering FBISE curriculum for expatriate children in Dubai.\n\nA number of schools also offer British primary education up to the age of eleven. British style eleven-to-eighteen secondary schools offering General Certificate of Secondary Education and A-Levels include Dubai Gem Private School, Dubai British School, English Language School Pvt. Some schools, such as The American School of Dubai, also offer the curriculum of the United States.\n\nThe most well-known universities in Dubai are American University in Dubai, Hult International Business School, Al Ghurair University, The American College of Dubai, University of Wollongong in Dubai, British University in Dubai offering courses in Business Administration, Engineering, Architecture and Interior Design. American University in Dubai is one of the six UAE universities featured in QS World University Rankings 2014/2015. In 2013 Synergy University Dubai Campus opened its campus in Jumeirah Lakes Towers being a first University in Dubai to be located outside of Educational Zones (Knowledge Village or Academic City).\n\nHealthcare in Dubai can be divided into two different sectors: public and private. Each Emirate is able to dictate healthcare standards according to their internal laws, although the standards and regulations rarely have extreme differences. Public hospitals in Dubai were first built in the late 1950s and continued to grow with public health initiatives. There are now 28 hospitals in Dubai, 6 public and 22 private, with 3 more major hospitals scheduled to be built by 2025.\n\nBy the end of 2012, there were also a total of 1,348 medical clinics, 97% of which are operated privately. In 2015, Dubai phased in mandatory health insurance for all inhabitants, thereby leading to increased demand for medical services.\n\n\nDubai is twinned with the following cities:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16717806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16717806", "title": "Ethnological Museum of Berlin", "text": "Ethnological Museum of Berlin\n\nThe Ethnological Museum of Berlin () is one of the Berlin State Museums (), the de facto national collection of the Federal Republic of Germany. It is presently located in the museum complex in Dahlem, along with the Museum of Asian Art () and the Museum of European Cultures (). The museum holds more than 500,000 objects and is one of the largest and most important collections of works of art and culture from outside Europe in the world. Its highlights include important objects from the Sepik River, Hawaii, the Kingdom of Benin, Cameroon, Congo, Tanzania, China, the Pacific Coast of North America, Mesoamerica, the Andes, as well as one of the first ethnomusicology collections of sound recordings (the Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv)\n\nThe Ethnological Museum was founded in 1873 and opened its doors in 1886 as the Royal Museum for Ethnology (), but its roots go back to the 17th century Kunstkammer of the rulers of Brandenburg-Prussia. As the museum’s collections expanded in the early twentieth century, the museum quickly outgrew its facility in the center of Berlin on Königgrätzer Straße (today named Stresemannstraße). A new building was erected in Dahlem to house the museum’s store rooms and study collections. In the Second World War, the main building of the museum was heavily damaged. It was demolished in 1961, and the buildings in Dahlem (in what was then West Berlin) were reconfigured to serve as the museum’s exhibition spaces. \nFollowing German reunification, although many of the Berlin museum collections were relocated, the collections of the Ethnological Museum remained in Dahlem. Starting in 2000, concrete plans were developed to relocate the collections back to the center of the city. As a result, in 2019, the Ethnological Museum and Museum of Asian Art are scheduled to reopen in the Humboldt Forum in the reconstructed Berlin City Palace () immediately south of the main Museum Island complex.\n\nBeginning in January 2016, the Ethnological Museum began the process of dismantling its exhibitions in preparation for its move to the Humboldt Forum. Until January 2017, the museum will remain open to the public, and its permanent exhibitions of works from Africa, Mesoamerican archaeology, and South Asia can still be viewed. Highlights include the collections of painted Maya vases and drinking cups, Benin bronzes, sculpture from Cameroon, and power figures from Congo.\n\nThe collections themselves encompass more than 500,000 from around the world. In addition, the museum holds more than 280,000 historical photographs, a substantial archive, more than 125,000 sound recordings, and 20,000 ethnographic films. The collection is organized according to geography as well as methodological approaches. The main divisions are Africa, Oceania, East-and North-Asia, South and Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Central Asia, American ethnology, American archaeology, and ethnomusicology. The museum also houses a specialized reference library of more than 140,000 volumes relating to ethnology, non-European art, and global art.\n\nThese collections are all housed in the museum complex in Dahlem. Long-term plans are being made to relocate the collections not on display to Friedrichshagen, an eastern suburb of Berlin, where the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation () has already constructed storage facilities for the Berlin State Library ().\n\nThe museum's first building in the center of Berlin on Königgrätzer Straße (now Stresemannstraße at the corner with Niederkirchnerstraße) was already too small to accommodate the collections when it opened in 1886. The situation deteriorated further in the last years of the nineteenth century, as the collections expanded rapidly because of increased institutional support for ethnology and the growth of the German overseas colonial empire after the Berlin Conference.\nBy 1906, the first construction began on a second facility for the museum in Dahlem. The museum intended to use space in Dahlem to store and conduct research on the large collections, but to continue to exhibit portions of the collection in the building in the city center. Plans were developed for a large complex in Dahlem, consisting of four large buildings, one for each of the non-European geographical regions of the globe: Asia, Africa, Oceania, and the Americas, the latter department directed by Konrad Theodor Preuss. Construction began in 1914, the architect Bruno Paul was commissioned to build the structure to house the Asian collections on Arnimallee, Dahlem. The work was stopped, however, because of the First World War and was only completed in 1921. However, the museum lacked the resources to erect the other three planned buildings. The museum continued to function with two separate facilities housing its collections until the Second World War.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, as a result of the division of Berlin, the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation decided to house the portions of the Gemäldegalerie (Picture Gallery) that were returned to West Berlin in the Bruno Paul building. This decision required moving the collections of the Ethnological Museum to a new facility. The architect Fritz Bornemann developed plans for an extension to the Bruno Paul building, which was erected from 1966 to 1970. The Bornemann building faced onto Lansstraße with an uncompromisingly modernist pavilion and contrasted sharply with the older neo-classical Bruno Paul structure, with its main entrance on Arnimallee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15791270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15791270", "title": "Fernand Collin Prize for Law", "text": "Fernand Collin Prize for Law\n\nThe Fernand Collin Prize for Law (Dutch: Fernand Collin-prijs voor Recht) was named after Fernand Collin. It is awarded to a scientist who makes a significant contribution to law in Belgium. In 1972 it was awarded to an economist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32288528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32288528", "title": "Growing Up American", "text": "Growing Up American\n\nGrowing Up American: How Vietnamese Children Adapt to Life in the United States, by Min Zhou and Carl L. Bankston III is one of the most influential books on the Vietnamese American experience. Published in 1998 by the Russell Sage Foundation, it is widely used in college classes on international migration, contemporary American history, and Asian Studies. The book emphasizes the role of Vietnamese communities in promoting the adaptation of Vietnamese American young people. \n\nOne of the unique characteristics of the book is its combination of a general history of the growth and nature of Vietnamese American communities around the United States with an in-depth study of one specific Vietnamese community, on the eastern edge of New Orleans, Louisiana. \n\nChapter 1 traces the history of Vietnamese settlement in the United States, giving special attention to how the process of refugee resettlement and popular opinions of the American public have influenced Vietnamese American children. Chapter 2 gives a description of the demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of the U.S. Vietnamese population and describes the social and economic challenges facing the Vietnamese. Chapter 3 offers examples of how families and surrounding ethnic communities can serve as sources of social capital for young people. Chapter 4 discusses the patterns of social and kinship relations in Vietnamese ethnic communities. Here, Zhou and Bankston develop their theory that ethnic social relations can serve as a form of social capital for young people growing up in immigrant communities. Chapter 5 examines how Vietnamese language abilities promote the adaptation of young Vietnamese to American society by connecting them to the supports of their families and communities. Chapter 6 considers Vietnamese American adaptation to American schools and argues that generally high levels of school performance are products of tightly integrated ethnic communities. Chapter 7 examines bicultural conflict and gender role issues faced by Vietnamese growing up in the United States. Chapter 8 discusses peer group associations and problems of juvenile delinquency. It provides evidence that young people who follow delinquent patterns tend to be those who assimilate to the youth culture of Vietnamese and other subgroups, rather than remain bound within their ethnic communities. Chapter 9 gives a general summary and offers conclusions of relevance to the study of immigrant and minority groups in the United States.\n\n\"Growing Up American\" has received widespread critical praise. Writing in the journal \"Social Forces\", reviewer Jiannbin Shiao described the analysis of delinquency in the Vietnamese community as “contestable but refreshingly bold” and described it as “a fine contribution to the sociology of education, social stratification, social demography, Asian American Studies, and, one hopes, also U.S. urban policy.” In the \"International Migration Review\", Kimberly Goyette praised the book for “…elaborat[ing] a detailed and elegant framework for conceptualizing the relationship between children and their various environments and also the relationship between these environments.” Kelly Chong, reviewing the book for the \"American Journal of Sociology\", observed “this comprehensive investigation of the adaptation process of second generation Vietnamese in the United States fills an important gap in the study of contemporary “new” immigrants and the second generation assimilation experience.”\n\nIn addition to the praise, though, reviewers have also had some reservations. In particular, critics have questioned the generalizability of the books findings to other ethnic groups and they have suggested the book may be too optimistic in its account of the future of young Vietnamese Americans. Critics of more radical orientations have often objected the authors’ acceptance of American society and the focus on adapting to that society. For example, Karin Aguilar-San Juan, in the book \"Little Saigons: Staying Vietnamese in America\", accuses Zhou and Bankston of ignoring the processes of racialization and systemic racism in encouraging Asian immigrant achievement while frustrating black American achievement.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2826749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826749", "title": "Herman Hedning", "text": "Herman Hedning\n\nHerman Hedning (lit. Herman the Heathen, known as Marwin Meathead in English editions) is a humorous comic strip from Sweden drawn and written by Jonas Darnell.\n\nThe comic has three main protagonists, Herman Hedning (Marwin Meathead), Gammelman (Oldhead) and Lilleman (Shorthead).\n\nMarwin Meathead is fat, sadistic, greedy, lazy and self-important; he possesses all the bad qualities one can possibly find in a thinking human being. Always wearing his helmet and carrying a weapon, a wooden club with a huge nail right through it. It is revealed to be made of the corewood of an Arch-oak. He is unstoppable in plotting against his two buddies - Oldhead and Shorthead. Despite his sadism, brute nature and professed lack of any kind of intelligence, he's shown to be quite intelligent when it comes to certain subjects, as well as being shown at times to be extremely cunning when it comes to finding ways to make money, often taking advantage of the trusting nature of others.\n\nShorthead is often the target for Marwin’s evil plans - he is a kind, naive, nature-loving soul who wants to be everybody’s friend. At times, however, he's been shown to be just as malicious towards Marwin, switching from pitying him and outright despising him, being perfectly willing to let him suffer from the consequences of his own actions.\n\nOldhead with his glasses and beard, grumpy and blasé, is quite happy to simply sit back and watch Marwin and Shorthead beating the living daylights out of each other. He often does this from his laboratory, where he invents various dooms-day machines and more or less necessary gadgets to reform the world. Like the others, he has been shown to be able of extreme greed, malice and violent outbursts, putting others on the line if it benefits his research. Much like Shorthead, however, he's been shown to be very compassionate and kind, even towards meathead. These instances are few and far between, though.\n\nHerman Hedning first appeared in 1988 in \"Fantomen\" (the Swedish edition of The Phantom).\nSince then Jonas Darnell has written over 700 strips, and a number of lengthier stories, typically 8-10 pages. About 680 have been translated into English. The first of twenty albums was released in 1990, and the first magazine in 1998. Since 1998 there have been 130 issues, or eight per year, except for 1998 and 1999, with two and six issues respectively, and a few years where nine issues were published.\n\nHerman Hedning is published in Sweden, Norway and Finland, and is a steady seller, outlasting many of its contemporaries.\n\nSupporting protagonists\n\nThe Creator - A parody of the Christian god. Posing a large beard and an anonymous black line over his eyes, he is the one who is \"Incredibly responsible of precisely everything on Earth\". Sometime after creating the world, he starts using a device called \"The Holy Laptop\", a computer capable of instantly creating pretty much anything. This device is sometimes the target of interest for some, including Marwin, Oldhead, The Devil and The Prime Computer. He is very keen on experimenting, such as replacing all organic life forms and vegetables on earth with robots and plastic. It is revealed that he created Marwin, Shorthead and Oldhead in his own image, but found the result to be \"So damned ugly\" that he had to start again with Adam and Eve.\n\nRagnar - a Big, Purple dinosaur of unknown species. He is the closest Marwin have to a friend, often partaking in his schemes to mess with everyone and everything. Just like Marwin, he enjoys drinking and fighting.\n\nAdam and Eve - Two humans, that were created after Marwin and co. Their two sons, Kain and Abel look just like Marwin, or as their loving father, compassionately put it, \"Became disgusting, empty-headed freaks\", because of Marwin's mere presence and incredibly bad influence during Eve's pregnancy. Not quite allies, but neither evil, they show a uninterest in Oldhead and Shorthead, and contempt for Marwin\n\nAntagonists\n\nThe devil - or the red Airhead as Marwin calls him, is a parody of Satan. He is red, has horns, a long tail, and, from time to time, big wings and a moustache. He is evil and loves everything evil. He is by far the most recurring villain in the comics. Always trying to make people suffer, in one way or another, always failing miserably. These attempts involves trying to pollute the world on a massive scale, trying to heat the world up to an incredible level, giving the Holy Laptop a Panic-anxiety-virus, among other schemes. He was originally an Angel who was testing a \"Flaming Sword\", When Marwin arrived. He stole the sword, and accidentally torched the Angel's wings, thus making it impossible for him to get home. He was then ordered to \"Create a subterranean Sister-corporation\", which he dug out himself and called Hell, because it was \"Hot as Hell\".\nHe is shown to have a vast storage of \"spareparts\", such as heads, and gallbladders. One of the latter is currently worn by Marwin as pants. It is shown in the episode \"Fan i Helvete\" that the devil created the tick to pest Marwin. The tick almost instantly died from drinking Marwin's blood.\n\nThe Pandora-Department - Bureaucrats. The ultimate Doomsday-device. A gigantic temple, filled with mummified bureaucrats. It was created by the devil in an earlier version of the creation. It managed to create global collapse and world war simultaneously, forcing god to start over, and the Devil hid it as a virus on the Holy Laptop, recreating it once it upon restart. Outwards, it resembles, and works, like a multi adapter for electricity, making it capable of connecting to any group, like a corporation, bank or Soccer-club, and through the use of incredibly complicated bureaucracy, turn it into a babbling looneybin in an instant. The Devil created it to connect it to the Creators office, and get revenge for being kicked out of Heaven. This plan was foiled by Marwin. It later returns as P.U.R.G.A.T.O.R.Y (Special Unit For Soul Evaluation and Failed Abbreviations). The bureaucrats reappear from time to time as Lawyers, Court Notaries and the like.\n\nThe Prime computer - A computer originally built by Oldhead. He strikes a deal with Shorthead to get rid of Marwin and after a gruesome fight chases Marwin to the edge of a cliff. Marwin then tricks him to not kill him by illuminating the paradox of The Prime Computer, A wonder of Artificial Intelligence, the complete opposite of Marwin, a not-so-great wonder of Unartificial Unintelligence, being unable to use brute force since he is obviously above that. While debating on this, Marwin kicks The Prime Computer off the cliff and destroying him. He appears again in a later episode in a more robotic form, this time attempting to steal the Holy Laptop. This plan was foiled and the prime computer was seemingly destroyed. He reappears in a later episode, however, having teamed up with the villain Klustero. How he managed to do so is never specified. Their plan foiled, they return in the following episode which has the theme Online games such as WoW and Runescape. He is again beaten and, in true Supervillain-fashion, vows revenge on the world.\n\nThe Apocalypse - the master of Chaos, the real-estate manager of destruction, crusher of mountains, swallower of oceans and kicker of small white dogs. He is skinny, dry and wears a horned helmet. He resides on the moon, which is made completely of lard, with four centaurs known as the four roadies of the apocalypse. They work backstage to him and other musicians. In his first appearance, the apocalypse creates a lard-powered chaos-generator (this does not impress Marwin since he has been that his whole life) Marwin destroys it though. He participates in Marwins Roleplaying games as well as Hunting competition. Later he receives the chessboard of war. A recurring joke is Marwin being unable of pronouncing his name correctly. To date Marwin has only called The apocalypse by his true name a few times, and that by accident. It is unknown if this inability is stupidity or arrogance from Marwin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2617480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2617480", "title": "Historische Sprachforschung", "text": "Historische Sprachforschung\n\nHistorische Sprachforschung is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal covering Indo-European historical linguistics. It was established by Adalbert Kuhn in 1852 as the \"Zeitschrift für vergleichende Sprachforschung\" (\"Journal of Comparative Linguistics\"; colloquially referred to as \"Kuhns Zeitschrift\") and obtained its present title in 1988. It is the second oldest linguistics journal still in publication and subsumes the former \"Beiträge zur vergleichenden Sprachforschung\" or \"Kuhn-Schleichlers Beiträge\" (1852-1874) and the \"Beiträge zur Kunde der indogermanischen Sprachen\" or \"Bezzenbergers Beiträge\" (1877-1906).\n\nThe current editors-in-chief are Martin Kümmel (University of Jena), Olav Hackstein, and Sabine Ziegler. The journal is published by Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht.\n\n"}
{"id": "33086308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33086308", "title": "Housekeeping provision", "text": "Housekeeping provision\n\nIn Canada, statutes are one of the primary sources of law. A statute ends with housekeeping provisions, which are sections covering the details of the statute, such as the date of coming into force and the right of officials who administer the statute to make regulations under the statute.\n"}
{"id": "230946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230946", "title": "Idea–expression divide", "text": "Idea–expression divide\n\nThe idea–expression divide or idea–expression dichotomy limits the scope of copyright protection by differentiating an idea from the expression or manifestation of that idea.\n\nThe European Union Software Directive, Article 1.2, for example, expressly excludes from copyright ideas and principles that underlie any element of a computer program, including those that underlie its interfaces. As stated by the European Court of Justice in SAS Institute Inc. v World Programming Ltd., \"to accept that the functionality of a computer program can be protected by copyright would amount to making it possible to monopolise ideas, to the detriment of technological progress and industrial development.\"\n\nIn the United States the 1879 opinion of the Supreme Court in the case of \"Baker v. Selden\" elaborated this doctrine, holding that, while exclusive rights to the \"useful arts\" (in this case bookkeeping) described in a book might be available by patent, only the description itself was protectable by copyright. In \"Harper & Row Publishers, Inc. v. Nation Enters.\", 471 U.S. 539, 556 (1985), the Supreme Court stated that \"copyright's idea/expression dichotomy 'strike[s] a definitional balance between the First Amendment and the Copyright Act by permitting free communication of facts while still protecting an author's expression.'\" (internal citation omitted). Additionally, in \"Mazer v. Stein\", 347 U.S. 201, 217 (1954), the Supreme Court stated \"Unlike a patent, a copyright gives no exclusive right to the art disclosed; protection is given only to the expression of the idea—not the idea itself.\"\n\nSome of the criticism directed at \"intellectual property\" is based on the confusion between patents, which may confer proprietary rights in relation to general ideas and concepts \"per se\" when construed as methods, and copyrights, which cannot confer such rights.\nAn adventure novel provides an illustration of the concept. Copyright may subsist in the work as a whole, in the particular story or characters involved, or in any artwork contained in the book, but generally not in the idea or genre of the story. Copyright, therefore, may not subsist in the idea of a man venturing out on a quest, but may subsist in a particular story that follows that pattern. Similarly, if the methods or processes described in a work are patentable, they may be the subject of various patent claims, which may or may not be broad enough to cover other methods or processes based on the same idea. Arthur C. Clarke, for example, sufficiently described the concept of a communications satellite (a geostationary satellite used as a telecommunications relay) in a 1945 paper that it was not considered patentable in 1954 when it was developed (independently) at Bell Labs.\n\nIn the English decision of \"Donoghue v. Allied Newspapers Limited\" (1938) Ch 106, the court illustrated the concept by stating that \"the person who has clothed the idea in form, whether by means of a picture, a play or a book\" owns the copyright. In the Australian decision of \"Victoria Park Racing and Recreation Grounds Co. Ltd v. Taylor\" (1937) 58 CLR 479 at 498, Latham CJ used the analogy of reporting a person's fall from a bus: the first person to do so could not use the law of copyright to stop other people from announcing this fact.\n\nSome courts have recognized that particular ideas can be expressed effectively only by using certain elements or background. The French name for this doctrine is \"Scènes à faire\". Therefore, even the expression in these circumstances is unprotected, or extremely limited to verbatim copying only. This is true in the United Kingdom and most Commonwealth countries.\n\nIn the United States it is recognized that certain background elements are universal or at least commonplace in some types of work. For example, in \"Walker v. Time Life Films, Inc.\", 784 F.2d 44 (2d Cir. 1986), the Second Circuit said that in a film about cops in the South Bronx it was inevitable that the scenery would include drunks, stripped cars, prostitutes, and rats. In \"Gates Rubber Co. v. Bando Chemical Industries, Ltd.\", 9 F.3d 823 (10th Cir. 1993), the Tenth Circuit held that hardware standards and mechanical specifications, software standards and compatibility requirements, computer manufacturer design standards, target industry practices and demands, and computer industry programming practices were unprotectable scenes a faire for computer programs. The principle must have a limit, however, so that something is outside the \"scènes à faire\" doctrine for South Bronx movies. Perhaps, cockroaches, gangs, and muggings are also part of the South Bronx \"scène à faire\", but further similarity such as the film having as characters \"a slumlord with a heart of gold and a policeman who is a Zen Buddhist and lives in a garage surely goes beyond the South Bronx \"scène à faire\". There must be some expression possible even in a cliche-ridden genre.\"\n\nA broader but related concept is the merger doctrine. Some ideas can be expressed intelligibly only in one or a limited number of ways. The rules of a game provide an example. In such cases the expression merges with the idea and is therefore not protected.\n\nUnited States courts are divided on whether merger constitutes a defense to infringement or prevents copyrightability in the first place, but it is often pleaded as an affirmative defense to copyright infringement.\n\nIn August 2013, Robin Thicke, Pharrell Williams, and T.I. had a lawsuit filed against them by the family and estate of Marvin Gaye regarding their song \"Blurred Lines\"; the family had argued that \"Blurred Lines\" had copied the \"feel\" and \"sound\" of the Marvin Gaye song \"Got to Give It Up\" (which Thicke cited as an influence on the song), contradicting the idea-expression divide. In March 2015, a court ruled that, despite not sharing the same chords, lyrics, or other copyrightable elements, \"Blurred Lines\" had infringed on the copyrights of \"Got to Give It Up\" by copying its feel and sound.\n\n"}
{"id": "28741065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28741065", "title": "James L. Swauger", "text": "James L. Swauger\n\nJames L. Swauger (November 1, 1913 – December 18, 2005) was an American archaeologist known for his work on the petroglyphs of the Ohio River valley of the United States. A native of West Newton in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, he moved to the Pittsburgh suburb of Edgewood in his youth; there he lived for most of the rest of his life.\n\nAt the age of 22, Swauger began working for Pittsburgh's Carnegie Museum of Natural History; he started as an archaeology and ethnology assistant. Swauger was awarded a bachelor's degree in zoology in 1941 from the University of Pittsburgh. During World War II, he served in the U.S. Army with the rank of First Lieutenant; after his 1946 discharge, he resumed his position at the Carnegie Museum, and he returned to the University of Pittsburgh to earn an M. Litt in history. Swauger was promoted to the position of archaeology and ethnology curator in 1949; as his career progressed, he became an associate director of the museum in 1955, received the title of \"Senior Scientist\" in 1976, and was made a curator emeritus in 1981.\n\nSwauger was largely responsible for the modern anthropology program at the Carnegie Museum, which had fallen into abeyance in the early twentieth century. After conducting research in locations as varied as Nebraska and southern Yemen, he received significant grants in the 1950s to begin the excavation of Fort Pitt and Fort Duquesne at the present site of Point State Park in downtown Pittsburgh. In connection with these excavations, Swauger helped to found the Upper Ohio Valley Archaeology Survey.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Swauger began to be professionally interested in the study of Native American rock art; he concentrated on the upper Ohio River valley region, although his studies also encompassed some of the petroglyphs of the northeastern United States. As a part of this specialty, he aided in founding multiple academic conferences on the subject of rock art, including a 1970 conference in Virginia that was the first of its kind anywhere in the eastern part of the United States. Among his writings was a book known as \"Rock Art of the Upper Ohio Valley\", which has been regarded as a leading work in the archaeology of the region. This book was one of nearly three hundred works on anthropology and museology that Swauger published; additionally, he produced extensive notes, amounting to at least nineteen volumes by 1979. Although he retired in 1981, he continued to work actively as late as 1996, both visiting petroglyph sites and publishing new writings. Besides his work in archaeology, he was known as a master organizer; soon after taking the assistant director position at the Carnegie Museum, he personally reorganized a massive collection of entomological information that had previously been in disarray, and this pattern he continued throughout the rest of his life.\n\nIn late 2005, Swauger died of pneumonia at a nursing home in Johnston, Rhode Island, aged ninety-two. He was survived by his son and two daughters, along with multiple grandchildren and great-grandchildren. In the aftermath of his death, he was recalled as an \"ageless\" figure who had created a benchmark for every other archaeologist working in western Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "24918650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24918650", "title": "Janet Davidson", "text": "Janet Davidson\n\nJanet Marjorie Davidson is a New Zealand archaeologist who has carried out extensive field work in the Pacific Islands throughout Polynesia, Micronesia and Melanesia.\n\nIn the 1996 Queen's Birthday Honours, Davidson was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to archaeology.\n\nIn 2007, the archaeology publication, \"Vastly Ingenious\" was published in her honour. Titled, \"Vastly Ingenious:The Archaeology of Pacific Material Culture - in honour of Janet M. Davidson\" the book presented essays of new research by leading international scholars with an introduction by Davidson's colleague Roger Curtis Green. Published by Otago University Press, the book was edited by three Pacific prehistorians Atholl Anderson, Kaye C. Green and Foss Leach.\n\n\"Janet’s career combined active and often pioneering fieldwork across the Pacific with an imaginative approach to museum research and display that attracted young scholars\", explains contributor Roger Green; \"she kept material culture in the public eye.\"\nDavidson carried out field work in the Society Islands at Moorea (1961–1962), Samoa (1964, 1965–1966), Tonga (1964) and Nukuoro (1965) in the Federated States of Micronesia as well as Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands.\n\nIn 1964, Davidson graduated with an M.A. in Anthropology from the University of Auckland. In 1965, she was the E. Earle Vaile Archaeologist at the Auckland Institute and Museum. She was an honorary lecturer at University of Otago and later held the position of Senior Curator, Pacific at the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa.\n\nDavidson and Green carried out archaeological field work in Samoa in the 1960s. They co-authored \"Archaeology in Western Samoa\" and laid the foundation for archaeology in Samoa. Part of Davidson's field work was studying settlement patterns in Samoa before 1840.\n\nDavidson has published widely on the prehistory of New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. She edited the New Zealand Journal of Archaeology from 1985 - 2008. She was also a major contributor to the Journal of the Polynesian Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "41521360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41521360", "title": "John Romilly Allen", "text": "John Romilly Allen\n\nJohn Romilly Allen FSA FSA (Scot.) (9 June 1847 – 5 July 1907) was a British archaeologist.\n\nAllen was the son of George Baugh Allen. He was educated at King's College School, Rugby and King's College London. In 1867 he was articled to George Fosbery Lyster, engineer in chief to the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board, with whom he remained until 1870. He was next employed as resident engineer to the Persian railways of Baron de Reuter and afterwards in supervising the construction of docks at Leith and at Boston, Lincolnshire.\n\nMeanwhile, Allen was interested in archaeology; and he spent the rest of his life on it, and particularly on the study of prehistoric antiquities and of pre-Norman art in Great Britain. His earliest contribution was to \"Archæologia Cambrensis\" (\"A description of some cairns on Barry Island\"), appearing in April 1873; he joined the Cambrian Archaeological Association in 1875, was elected a member of the general committee in 1877, became one of two editors of its \"Journal\" in 1889, and was sole editor from 1892 until his death. Having begun with the antiquities of Wales, Allen from 1880 gave attention to those of Scotland also; in 1883 he was elected fellow of the Scottish Society of Antiquaries, and in 1885 was Rhind Lecturer in archaeology in the University of Edinburgh. In England, he became fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London in 1896, editor of the \"Reliquary and Illustrated Archæologist\" in 1893; and Yates Lecturer in archæology in University College, London, for 1898.\n\nAllen was unmarried, and during his later years made his home in London, where he died on 5 July 1907.\n\nIn addition to contributions to archaeological journals, Allen published:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30107756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30107756", "title": "Journal of Speculative Philosophy", "text": "Journal of Speculative Philosophy\n\nThe Journal of Speculative Philosophy is an academic journal that examines basic philosophical questions, the interaction between Continental and American philosophy, and the relevance of historical philosophers to contemporary thinkers. The journal is published quarterly by the Penn State University Press.\n\nAn unrelated journal by the same name was established in 1867 by William Torrey Harris of St. Louis, Missouri, thus becoming the first journal on philosophy in the English-speaking world. The journal ceased publication in 1893, but the name was revived in 1987 at the Pennsylvania State University with the founding of the \"Journal of Speculative Philosophy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30991698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991698", "title": "Jules Feller", "text": "Jules Feller\n\nJules Feller (4 November 1859, Roubaix – 29 April 1940, Verviers) was a Belgian academician and Walloon militant.\n\nJules Feller created the 'Feller system' ('') of spelling for the Walloon language. This is also used for writing the Picard language since a consensus arose between universities in favour of the written form known as 'Feller-Carton' (based on the Walloon spelling system – which was developed by Feller and adapted for Picard by Prof. Fernand Carton).\n\nHe represented Verviers in the from 1919 until his death. He was a member of the Royal Academy of French Language and Literature in Belgium.\n"}
{"id": "216131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216131", "title": "List of Baileys Women's Prize for Fiction winners", "text": "List of Baileys Women's Prize for Fiction winners\n\nThe Baileys Women's Prize for Fiction (previously called Women's Prize for Fiction (2013), Orange Prize for Fiction (1996–2006 & 2009–12) and Orange Broadband Prize for Fiction (2007–2008) and to be presented as the Women's Prize for Fiction once again from 2018) is one of the United Kingdom's most prestigious literary prizes, annually awarded to a female author of any nationality for the best original full-length novel written in English, and published in the United Kingdom in the preceding year. The prize was originally due to be launched in 1994 with the support of Mitsubishi but public controversy over the merits of the award caused the sponsorship to be withdrawn. Funding from Orange, a UK mobile network operator and Internet service provider, allowed the prize to be launched in 1996 by a committee of male and female \"journalists, reviewers, agents, publishers, librarians, booksellers\", including current Honorary Director Kate Mosse. \n\nIn May 2012, it was announced that Orange would be ending its sponsorship of the prize. In 2012, the award was formally known as the \"Women's Prize for Fiction\", and was sponsored by \"private benefactors\" led by Cherie Blair and writers Joanna Trollope and Elizabeth Buchan. In 2013, the new sponsor became Baileys. In January 2017 the company announced that it was the last year that they would sponsor the prize. In June 2017, the prize announced it would change its name to simply \"Women's Prize for Fiction\" starting in 2018, and will be supported by a family of sponsors.\n\nThe prize was established to recognise the contribution of female writers, whom Mosse believed were often overlooked in other major literary awards, and in reaction to the all-male shortlist for the 1991 Booker Prize. The winner of the prize receives £30,000, along with a bronze sculpture called the \"Bessie\" created by artist Grizel Niven, the sister of actor and writer David Niven. Typically, a longlist of nominees is announced around March each year, followed by a shortlist in June; within days the winner is announced. The winner is selected by a board of \"five leading women\" each year. In 2005, judges named Andrea Levy's \"Small Island\" as the \"Orange of Oranges\", the best novel of the preceding decade.\n\nThe BBC suggests that the prize forms part of the \"trinity\" of UK literary prizes, along with the Booker Prize and the Costa Book Awards; the sales of works by the nominees of these awards are significantly boosted. Levy's 2004 winning book sold almost one million copies (in comparison to less than 600,000 for the Booker Prize winner of the same year), while sales of Helen Dunmore's \"A Spell of Winter\" quadrupled after being awarded the inaugural prize. Valerie Martin's 2003 award saw her novel sales increase tenfold after the award, and British libraries, who often support the prize with various promotions, reported success in introducing people to new authors: \"48% said that they had tried new writers as a result of the promotion, and 42% said that they would try other books by the new authors they had read.\"\n\nHowever, the fact that the prize singles out female writers is not without controversy. After the prize was founded, Auberon Waugh nicknamed it the \"Lemon Prize\" while Germaine Greer claimed there would soon be a prize for \"writers with red hair\". Winner of the 1990 Booker Prize, A. S. Byatt called it a \"sexist prize\", claiming \"such a prize was never needed.\" In 1999, the chairwoman of the judges, Lola Young, said that the British fiction they were asked to appraise fell into two categories, either \"insular and parochial\" or \"domestic in a piddling kind of way\", unlike American authors who \"take small, intimate stories and set them against this vast physical and cultural landscape which is very appealing.\". Linda Grant suffered accusations of plagiarism following her award in 2000, while the following year, a panel of male critics produced their own shortlist and heavily criticised the genuine shortlist. Though full of praise for the winner of the 2007 prize, the chair of the judging panel Muriel Gray decried the fact that the shortlist had to be whittled down from \"a lot of dross\", while former editor of \"The Times\" Simon Jenkins called it \"sexist\". In 2008, writer Tim Lott called the award \"a sexist con-trick\" and said, \"the Orange Prize is sexist and discriminatory, and it should be shunned\". \n\nNo woman has won the award more than once but Margaret Atwood has been nominated three times without a win. Since the inaugural award to Helen Dunmore, British writers have won five times, while North American authors have secured the prize nine times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10191916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10191916", "title": "List of calligraphers", "text": "List of calligraphers\n\nThis is a list of calligraphers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26311753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26311753", "title": "Luso-Brazilian Review", "text": "Luso-Brazilian Review\n\nThe Luso-Brazilian Review is a peer-reviewed academic journal which publishes interdisciplinary scholarship on the Portuguese, Brazilian, and Lusophone African cultures, with an emphasis on literature, history, and the social sciences. Each issue of the \"Luso-Brazilian Review\" contains articles and book reviews, written in either English or Portuguese.\n\nThe \"Luso-Brazilian Review\" was founded in 1964 at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. The founding editor was Alberto Machado da Rosa.\n\nThe journal is indexed and abstracted in America: History and Life, Behavioural Abstracts, Hispanic American Periodicals Index, MLA International Bibliography of Books and Articles on the Modern Languages and Literatures, Multicultural Education Abstracts, Periodicals Index Online, Scopus, Social Planning, Policy and Development Abstracts, and Sociology of Education Abstracts.\n\n"}
{"id": "46458888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46458888", "title": "Martha Leeb Hadzi", "text": "Martha Leeb Hadzi\n\nMartha Leeb Hadzi (1919–2003) was an art historian and an archeologist.\n\nHadzi was born on December 24, 1919. She grew up in Montclair, New Jersey and graduated from the Beard School (now the Morristown-Beard School) in Orange, New Jersey in 1937. Hadzi then earned her bachelor's degree at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York. She completed her master's degree at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University in New York City and her PhD at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nDuring her master's studies, Hadzi completed a Fulbright fellowship, and participated in an archeological excavation at Samothrace, a Greek island in the Mediterranean Sea. In 1955, the American Academy in Rome awarded her their Rome Prize, a fellowship for resident scholarship at the academy. She completed her PhD dissertation on sculptural portraits of Gallenius, a Third Century Roman Emperor, during the fellowship.\n\nHadzi served as the corresponding Italy editor for \"Art in America\", an international magazine for contemporary art, and as a writer for \"Art Bulletin\" and \"Renaissance Quarterly\". While working as a professor of art history, she taught classes at Bennett College. She also taught at four of the Seven Sisters: Vassar, Smith College, Wellesley College, and Mount Holyoke College. Hadzi achieved notoriety as an authority on ancient Greek art.\n\nIn 1954, Hadzi married sculptor Dimitri Hadzi at the Campidoglio in Rome. They had two children together. Hadzi and Dimitri Hadzi later divorced during the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "48565424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48565424", "title": "Media art history", "text": "Media art history\n\nMedia art history is an interdisciplinary field of research that explores the current developments as well as the history and genealogy of new media art, digital art, and electronic art. On the one hand, media art histories addresses the contemporary interplay of art, technology, and science. On the other, it aims to reveal the historical relationships and aspects of the ‘afterlife’ (Aby Warburg) in new media art by means of a historical comparative approach. This strand of research encompasses questions of the history of media and perception, of so-called archetypes, as well as those of iconography and the history of ideas. Moreover, one of the main agendas of media art histories is to point out the role of digital technologies for contemporary, post-industrial societies and to counteract the marginalization of according art practices and art objects: ″Digital technology has fundamentally changed the way art is made. Over the last forty years, media art has become a significant part of our networked information society. Although there are well-attended international festivals, collaborative research projects, exhibitions and database documentation resources, media art research is still marginal in universities, museums and archives. It remains largely under-resourced in our core cultural institutions.″\n\nThe term new media art itself is of great importance to the field. New media art is an umbrella term that encompasses art forms that are produced, modified and transmitted by means of digital technologies or, in a broader sense, make use of ‘new’ and emerging technologies that originate from a scientific, military or industrial context. The majority of authors that try to ‘delineate’ the aesthetic object of new media art emphasize aspects of interactivity, processuality, multimedia, and real time. The focus of new media art lies in the cultural, political, and social implications as well as the aesthetic possibilities – more or less its ‘media-specificity’ – of digital media. Consequently, scholars recognize the function of media technologies in New Media Art not only as a ‘carrier’ of meaning, but instead as a means that fundamentally shapes the very meaning of the artwork itself.\n\nFurthermore, the field of new media art is increasingly influenced by new technologies that surmount a traditional understanding of (art) media. This becomes apparent in regards to technologies that originate from the field of biotechnology and life science and that are employed in artistic practices such as bio art, genetic art, and transgenic art. Consequently, the term new media art does not imply a steady ‘genre’ of art production. Instead, it is a field that emphasizes new technologies (in order to establish an explicit difference with traditional art media and genres). The list of genres that are commonly subsumed under the label of new media art illustrates its broad scope and includes, among others, virtual art. Software Art, Internet Art, Game Art, Glitch Art, Telematic Art, Bio Art / Genetic Art, Interactive Art, computer animation and graphics, and Hacktivism and Tactical Media. These latter two ‘genres’ in particular have a strong focus on the interplay of art and (political) activism.\n\nSince the end of the 1990s, the first online databases came into being, as exemplified by the university-based Archive of Digital Art, Rhizome platform located in New York, Netzspannung (until 2005), the database project Compart in which early phase of Digital Art is addressed, and the collaborative online platform Monoskop. In terms of institutional resources, media art histories spans diverse organisations, archives, research centres as well as private initiatives. Already at this early stage in the development of the field, the actors of media art histories were connected by way of digital communication, especially by so-called mailing lists such as Nettime or Rohrpost, both channels of communication that remain prime resources for the new media art community.\n\nIn the last few years, there was a significant increase of festivals and conferences dedicated to new media art, though the dominant festivals in the field continue to be the Ars Electronica, the Transmediale, the ISEA (Inter-Society for the Electronic Arts), and SIGGRAPH (Special Interest Group on Graphics and Interactive Techniques). To this day, museums and research facilities specializing in New Media Art are the exception. Nevertheless, ZKM (Zentrum für Kunst und Medientechnologie) or specific focuses in collections (including the Whitney Museum, the New York Museum of Modern Art, or the Walker Art Center) serve as important spaces for exchange. Beyond museums that reach a wider audience, there are more and more smaller museums and galleries that focus on new media art (such as the Berlin-based DAM – Digital Art Museum). Additionally, archives in which are exhibited artifacts situated at the intersection of the histories of media, art, and technology are important resources, including collections such as that of Werner Nekes or those cabinets of wonder and curiosity incorporated in art history museums.\n\nEven given this increase in festivals, however, a variety of significant research initiatives have been discontinued. These include the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Media.Art.Research, the Daniel Langlois Foundation for Art, Science and Technology, and Media Art Net. This difficulty in establishing sustainable funding structures as well as support for access to shared data for the scientific research of new media art was made public and addressed by the Liverpool Declaration. Scholars and artists based at institutions all over the globe signed the declaration in a call to develop systematic strategies to fulfill the task that digital culture and its research demands in the 21st Century.\nAlready in the late 1990s it became clear, that media art research is spread over many disciplines and the need became urgent to give it common ground: Therefore, at Humboldt University Berlin Oliver Grau in Cooperation with Roger Malina, Leonardo and Sara Diamond, Banff Center developed the international Conference Series on the Histories of MediaArt, Science and Technology, which was started in 2005 through a collective process, involving more than 10 disciplines related to media art. The world conference series attempts to foster the exchange between these different disciplines and their various actors. To date, the conference took place six times with Re-fresh (Banff 2005), Re-place (Berlin 2007), Re-live (Melbourne 2009), Re-wire (Liverpool 2011), Re-new (Riga 2013), Re-create (Montreal 2015), upcoming Vienna/Krems ad Donau (2017). Documentation of the meanwhile more than 2000 papers and applications can be found on MediaArtHistory.org \n\nSeveral scholars in the field of media art history claim that there is still a considerable lack of knowledge regarding the origins of visual and audio-visual media. Consequently, it is the objective of media art histories to expand the historically informed knowledge of current media cultures with its developments and detours – the field is driven by the idea of a ‘deep time of the media’ (S. Zielinski).\n\nHence, scholars stress that the technological advances in current media cultures are best understood on the backdrop of an extensive media and art history. Contributions to this field are widespread and include, among others, researchers who have disciplinary focuses such as the history of science (Lorraine Daston, Timothy Lenoir), art history and image science (Oliver Grau, Barbara Stafford, Dieter Daniels, Slavko Kacunko, Edward A. Shanken, Gunalan Nadarajan, Linda Henderson, Andreas Broeckmann, Jonathan Crary, Horst Bredekamp, Peter Weibel, Hans Belting), media studies and media archaeology (Friedrich Kittler, Erkki Huhtamo, Jussi Parikka, Wolfgang Ernst, Siegfried Zielinski, Stephan Oettermann, Lev Manovich), sound studies (Douglas Kahn), film studies (Sean Cubitt, Ryszard Kluszczyński), as well as computer science (Frieder Nake).\n"}
{"id": "2146454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2146454", "title": "Media preservation", "text": "Media preservation\n\nPreservation of documents, pictures, recordings, digital content, etc., is a major aspect of archival science. It is also an important consideration for people who are creating time capsules, family history, historical documents, scrapbooks and family trees. Common storage media are not permanent, and there are few reliable methods of preserving documents and pictures for the future.\n\nColor negatives and ordinary color prints may fade away to nothing in a relatively short period if not stored and handled properly. This happens even if the negatives and prints are kept in the dark, because ambient light is not the determining factor, but heat and humidity are. The color degradation is the result of the dyes used in the color processes. Because color processing results in a less stable image than traditional black-and-white processing, black-and-white pictures from the 1920s are more likely to survive long-term than color films and photographs from after the middle 20th century.\n\nBlack-and-white photographic films using silver halide emulsions are the only film types that have proven to last for archival storage. The determining factors for longevity include the film base type, proper processing (develop, stop, fix and wash) and proper storage. Early films were coated onto a nitrate base material which was prone to combustion if stored in uncontrolled temperatures. Nitrate film was replaced with acetate-base films. These Cellulose acetate films were later discovered to outgass acids (also referred to as vinegar syndrome). Acetate films were replaced in the early 1980s by polyester film base materials which have been determined to be more stable than nitrate- and acetate-base films.\n\nColor prints made on most inkjet printers look very good at first but they have a very short lifespan, measured in months rather than in years. Even prints from commercial photo labs will start to fade in a matter of years if not processed properly and stored in cool, dry environments.\n\nWith documents for which the media are not so critical as what the documents contain, the information in documents can be copied by using photocopiers and image scanners. Books and manuscripts can also have their information saved without destruction by using a book scanner.\n\nWhere the medium itself needs to be preserved, for example if a document is a crayon sketch by a famous artist on paper, a complex process of preservation may be used. Depending on the condition and importance of the item this can include gluing the media onto more stable media, or protective enclosing of the media. Polyester sleeves, acid-free folders, and pH buffered document boxes are common supportive protective enclosures whose selection must match the media’s chemical and physical properties. Other considerations in preserving paper/books are:\n\nAlthough there are many websites that allow the upload of photographs and videos, digital preservation for the long-term is still an issue. There is a lack of confidence that such websites are capable of storing data for long periods of time (ex. 50 years) without data degradation or loss.\n\nOptical media, such as CDs and DVDs, contain an organic dye that distinguishes data reading from data writing based on the dye’s transparency along the disk. Conventional CDs and DVDs have finite shelf-life due to natural degradation of the dye; the newer M-DISC uses different technology to produce DVDs with a claimed lifespan of up to 1000 years. The National Archives and Records Administration lists published life expectancies to be 10 or 25 years or more for normal CDs and DVDs and conservative life expectancies to be between 2 and 5 years. Storage environments, such as temperature and humidity, as well as handling conditions such as frequency of media use and compatibility between the recorder and media, affect media shelf-life. Improvements in media storage and migrations to new recording technologies can make certain formats obsolete within their respective lifespan. Technologists have pointed to internet streaming media, where services such as video-on-demand have contributed to the 33 percent decline in DVD sales the past 5 years, as a challenge for digital preservation. \n\nMagnetic media such as audio and video tape and floppy disks also have limited life spans.\n\nAudio and video tapes require specific care and handling to ensure that the recorded information will be preserved. For information that must be preserved indefinitely, periodic transcription from old media to new ones is necessary, not only because the media are unstable but also because the recording technology may become obsolete.\n\nMagnetic media also deteriorates naturally with typical shelf lives between 10 and 20 years. Magnetic tape can degrade from binder hydrolysis or magnetic remanence decay. Binder hydrolysis, also known as sticky-shed syndrome, refers to the breakdown of binder, or glue, that holds the magnetic particles to the polyester base of the tape. Tapes which have been stored in hot, humid conditions are particularly vulnerable to this phenomenon and may suffer from accelerated degradation. Severe binder can cause the magnetic material to fall off or sheds from the base, leaving a pile of dust and clear backing. Archivists can bake the tape, which evaporates water molecules on the tape, to temporarily restore the binder before making a copy.\n\nMagnetic tape can also be destabilized by magnetic remanence decay, which refers to the weakening of the tape’s magnetization over time. This weakens the affect tape’s readability, leading to reduced sound clarity and volume or picture hue and contrast. Baking the tape will not restore magnetization. Archivists might instead digitally encode a copy of the tape, preserving its content as a digital data file.\n\nMedia at risk include recorded media such as master audio recordings of symphonies and videotape recordings of the news gathered over the last 40 years. Threats to media that must be considered when archiving important record media include accidental erasure, physical loss due to disasters such as fires and floods, and media degradation.\n\nAlong with the actual media being degraded over the years, the machines that are available to play back or reproduce the audio sources are becoming archaic themselves. Manufacturers and their support (parts, technical updates) for their machines have disappeared throughout the years. Even if the medium is vaulted and archived correctly, the mechanical properties of the machines have deteriorated to the point that they could do more harm than good to the tape being played.\n\nMany major film studios are now backing up their libraries by converting them to electronic media files, such as .AIFF or .WAV-based files via digital audio workstations. That way, even if the digital platform manufacturer goes out of business or no longer supports their product, the files can still be played on any common computer.\n\nThere is a detailed process that must take place previous to the final archival product now that a digital solution is in place. Sample rates and their conversion and reference speed are both critical in this process.\n\nIn floppy disks, the lubricants inside the plastic jackets of many older floppies promote the decay of the magnetic medium. Also, the alignment of the magnetic particles of the disk substrate may gradually degrade, leading to a loss of formatting and data. Early laser disk media were prone to degradation as the layers of the disk substrate were bonded with an adhesive that was vulnerable to decay and would crumble over time. This would lead the different layers of the disk to peel apart, damaging the pitted data surface and rendering the disk unreadable.\n\n"}
{"id": "58144504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58144504", "title": "Nixtun Ch'ich'", "text": "Nixtun Ch'ich'\n\nNixtun-Ch’ich‘ is a Itza Maya archaeological site in Petén Department, Guatemala. It has an urban grid with fairly well ordered streets and avenues dated to around 2500 years ago. This is one of the earliest urban grids in the Americas and likely emerged as the ancient Maya developed more complex forms of political organization. It was likely a means to regulate and perhaps dominate the inhabitants. Nevertheless, the grid system at Nixtun-Ch’ich’ did not catch on and is not seen in later Maya cities.\n\nNixtun-Ch’ich’ stands on the western edge of Lake Petén Itzá. It is bordered by the lake to the south and east; by karstic hills to the north; and uneven terrain to the west. The area of the site is relatively flat, but it was built upon a low ridge that extends east to west. Maya sites are generally dispersed, but Nixtun-Ch’ich’ was laid out with an urban grid. It also includes an \"axis urbis\" composed of a row of over 15 buildings extending east to west. The axis and grid were established in the Middle Preclassic period (800-400 BC). The site also has major construction in the Late Preclassic period (400 BC-AD 200) after which the site appears to have suffered a decline—a trend seen in many sites in central Petén. The site was also occupied in the Late Classic through the Colonial period (AD 600-1734).\n\nDuring the 1995, 2006-2008, and 2013-2014 seasons at Nixtun-Ch’ich, Proyecto Itza encountered Preclassic period (ca.1000 BC-AD 200) constructions in nearly every test unit excavated. It was clear that the site’s most substantial constructions occurred before AD 200. In 2013-2014, Proyecto Itza remapped the site and found that it contained an urban grid. In 2015, Proyecto Itza began to intensively investigate the Preclassic period occupations along with its work on the Postclassic period.\n\nPostclassic and Colonial period settlements have been found at Nixtun-Ch'ich' in Sector QQ (Middle to Late Postclassic period), Sector WW (Middle to Late Postclassic period), Sector XX (Contact or Colonial period), and Sector ZZ (Colonial period). See map below.\n\nIn 2015, Proyecto Itza initiated a program of underwater archaeology on Lake Petén Itzá and began sampling in 2018. The goal of this work is to discern deposits in the lake left as offerings or accidentally dropped into the lake as a result of trade. Proyecto Itza has identified several areas that “look like” ports at Nixtun-Ch’-ich’ and we will test this hypothesis though underwater sampling.\n\nIn 2017, Proyecto Itza began filming a documentary about the development of city planning and the state at Nixtun-Ch’ich’.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3585356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3585356", "title": "Noburu Katagami", "text": "Noburu Katagami\n\nKatagami was born in Ehime, Japan, and graduated Waseda University in 1906, majoring English literature. He supported naturalism as an editor of a journal \"Waseda bungaku\". He became a professor at Waseda University in 1910, but later he became interested in Russian literature and traveled to Russia to study Russian literature (1915-1918). In 1920, when Waseda University created a department of Russian literature, Katagami was appointed as the chief professor. Masuji Ibuse, who was one of his students at that time, was harassed sexually by Katagami, so had to leave the university before graduation (1921).\n\nKatagami's literature theory became the basis of proletarian literature in Japan.\n"}
{"id": "6113247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6113247", "title": "Noûs", "text": "Noûs\n\nNoûs is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal on philosophy published by Wiley-Blackwell. It was established in 1967 by Hector-Neri Castañeda and is currently edited by Ernest Sosa (Rutgers University). The journal is accompanied by two annual supplements, \"Philosophical Issues\" and \"Philosophical Perspectives\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28128202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28128202", "title": "Otto von Sadovszky", "text": "Otto von Sadovszky\n\nOtto J. von Sadovszky (July 3, 1925 – May 12, 2004) was a Hungarian American anthropologist who worked at California State University, Fullerton in southern California for most of his career until his retirement. He is best known for his linguistic work attempting to link Native American languages of California to languages spoken in Siberia.\n\nSadovszky was born in Hungary on July 3, 1925 and grew to maturity there during World War II. He and his wife Maria raised two children.\n\nSadovszky received his Ph.L. at Collegium Aloysianum in Italy.\n\nAfter leaving Europe for the United States to study Sanskrit at UC Berkeley he met a graduate student in linguistics who was studying Miwok, and Sadovszky found that he could understand many of the terms from Miwok, a language of the Penutian group, despite having no training in it, due to the familiarity of many of the terms to Uralic languages from central Siberia he had studied earlier in Europe which were related to his native Hungarian. Sadovszky moved to Los Angeles to continue his graduate studies at UCLA.\n\nSadovszky taught in Germany, and in the U.S. at UC Berkeley, UCLA, and the University of Nevada, Reno before joining the Cal State Fullerton in Orange County south of Los Angeles in 1971. He continued working there until his retirement in 1994, even after achieving professor emeritus status in 1991.\n\nDuring his tenure as professor of anthropology at CSUF he claimed to have proven that almost 80 percent of the languages spoken by 19 Indian tribes in California are related to those spoken by two nations in Siberia. This became known as the Cal-Ugrian Theory.\n\nSadovszky elaborates the Cal-Ugrian theory in his book.\nThe theory describes the relationship between the Penutian languages native to California (itself a disputed hypothesis) and the Ob-Ugric languages spoken in Siberia. According to Sadovszky, this relationship is based on more than 10,000 different words and grammatical traits. The Penutian languages were or are spoken in an area along the Northern California coast from Bodega Bay to Big Sur as well as along the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers; the Ob-Ugric languages by 6,000 Mansi and 17,000 Khanty, east of the Urals.\n\nOne claim of Sadovszky's theory is that the ancestors of some California tribes arrived only 3,000 years ago, which is much more recently than the origin of most tribes in the Americas which according to the generally accepted theory regarding the settlement of the Americas date their original migrations to around 20,000 years ago across the Bering Strait. In contrast, the migration around 1,000 B.C.E. would have occurred from the Ob river delta across the Arctic Ocean in summer months and down the American coast.\n\nThe Cal-Ugrian theory was not well accepted in the United States, with some linguists noting that he was not trained in comparative linguistics although he had done some fieldwork among California Indians. As a result, his book was published abroad, and the upshot was that he gained a reputation for his knowledge of Indo-European and Uralic languages but more so in Europe than in the United States. Evidence for a relatively recent marine migration is very limited, but Sadovszky claims that archaeological and other evidence back up the linguistic evidence of his theory but there has been little interest in further research in this area.\n\nSpecialists in the Uralic languages have generally rejected Sadovszsky's theory, citing general lack of understanding of the methods of comparative linguistics, leading to his work being riddled with problems such as poor semantic and phonetic correspondences. Sadovszky often makes no effort to show that some material he compares is truly native within the two language groups he compares, often cherrypicking examples from just one or two of the dozens of languages encompassed by \"Penutian\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8597152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8597152", "title": "Pajaral", "text": "Pajaral\n\nPajaral, otherwise known as El Pajaral, is the modern name for a mid-sized ruined city of the pre-Columbian Maya archaeological site located to the south of the San Pedro Martir river in the Petén department of Guatemala. The name \"El Pajaral\" was coined by archaeologist Ian Graham, who discovered the site in the 1970s, and refers to the numerous birds he encountered there during his survey.\n\nPajaral, along with the ancient Maya site of Zapote Bobal, has recently been the focus of an archaeological project, the Proyecto Peten Noroccidente (PNO). Endeavors in the area are being directed by James Fitzsimmons (Middlebury College) and Laura Gamez (University of Pittsburgh). The increased attention being paid to these sites is largely the result of a discovery made by epigrapher David Stuart, who connected the archaeological site of Zapote Bobal with a name repeatedly mentioned in the inscriptions of sites like Piedras Negras and Yaxchilan. That name was the toponym Hix Witz, or \"Jaguar Hill\" Versions of that name occur on monuments recovered at Pajaral as well, suggesting that the two sites were related during the apogee of Maya civilization.\n\nThe immediately visible architecture at Pajaral is characterized by temple-mounds ranging from between in height. Some of these are built atop natural hills: the upper plaza at the site, for example, was constructed on a modified hill long by high. Although the map of the site is far from complete, it appears that settlement here is rather dispersed and in keeping with other large settlements in the area, including the archaeological site of La Joyanca. Such settlement is not the norm in many places around the Petén Basin. Even Zapote Bobal, the likely regional capital, is more centralized and characterized by a royal palace proper. However, the architecture at the heart of Pajaral is massive: for example, the Main Plaza at Pajaral is accessed by a well-preserved, enormous staircase wide and perhaps long. Based upon inscriptions and feline iconography at this site, scholars have suggested that this staircase, and its accompanying hill, was the basis for the name \"Hix Witz\" and that Pajaral, not Zapote Bobal, was the original regional capital In any event, the scale of construction at Zapote Bobal clearly indicates that by the 7th century it had eclipsed its western neighbor and taken the name \"Hix Witz\" for its own.\n\n"}
{"id": "550464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550464", "title": "Police Academy (franchise)", "text": "Police Academy (franchise)\n\nPolice Academy is a series of American comedy films, the first six of which were made in the 1980s. The series opened with \"Police Academy\" (1984) which started with the premise that a new mayor had announced a policy requiring the police department to accept all willing recruits. The film followed a group of misfit recruits in their attempts to prove themselves capable of being police officers, and succeeding both in spite of and because of their eccentricities. The main character in the first four films, Carey Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg), was a repeat offender who was forced to join the police academy as punishment. The seventh and to date last installment, \"\", was released in 1994. Guttenberg in September 2018 announced that a new \"Police Academy\" film was in the works. \n\nIn general, all of the films and television shows depended on low-brow humor, usually based on simple characterizations and physical comedy. As with many similar films, the theme was a group of underdogs struggling to prove themselves while various stereotyped authority figures tried to suppress them. The sequels have not been well received by critics, although they were generally commercially successful. The first film grossed $81.2 million in North America, with the following films earning $150 million in total. Parallels are often drawn between \"Police Academy\" and the British \"Carry On\" series, for their common reliance on a largely constant ensemble cast throughout the various films, the two series' frequent use of low-brow humor, sexual innuendo and physical comedy.\n\n\"Police Academy\" was released in 1984 and directed by Hugh Wilson. The film has a newly-elected female mayor announcing a policy requiring the police department to accept all willing recruits. The movie followed a group of misfit recruits in their attempts to prove themselves capable of being police officers and their adventures at the police academy.\n\nIn 1985's \"\", the newly-graduated cadets are sent to one of the worst precincts in the city to improve the conditions. Lt. Mauser undermines their attempts so that he can get Capt. Lassard fired and get the position in charge.\n\n\"\" was released in 1986, and like its predecessor was directed by Jerry Paris. When the governor of the state announces that budget cuts are in order to get rid of the worst of the two police academies, the Metropolitan police academy, led by Commandant Lassard, work on ensuring it isn't theirs. This is hindered by their unusual gang of new cadets.\n\nThe fourth installment, \"\", released in 1987, involves new recruits being brought in when the officers work with a newly formed Citizens On Patrol group. However, Harris and Proctor are in charge and plan to dismantle the program. \"Citizens on Patrol\" was the final film starring Guttenberg.\n\n\"\" was released in 1988 and directed by Alan Myerson. The plot involves the officers attending a police convention in Florida to honor Commandant Eric Lassard as police officer of the decade where Commandant Lassard inadvertently switches his sports bag with that of a group of jewel thieves. The thieves try to get it back.\n\nThe sixth installment, \"\" directed by Peter Bonerz, was released in 1989. When the city suffers from a dangerous set of crimes by a gang of jewel thieves, the Metropolitan Police Academy graduates are brought in to do something about it.\n\n\"\" released in 1994, and directed by Alan Metter involved the officers going to Russia to help catch an international crime figure.\n\nThe music score was composed by Robert Folk, which includes a famous melody theme that appears in all the rest of the movies. However, a pop song entitled \"I'm Gonna Be Somebody\" by Jack Mack is used at the end of #1. For #4, a rap song, \"Citizens on Patrol\", was written by John Debney and sung by Michael Winslow and LA Dream Team.\n\nAs of September 2003, plans were set in motion for an eighth \"Police Academy\" film to be released in 2007 after more than thirteen years of absence. Says series creator Paul Maslansky: \"I felt it was time to start again. I saw that \"Starsky & Hutch\" and a number of other revivals were doing really well. \"Police Academy\" has such a great history, so I thought, 'Why not?'\" Most of the main cast members were due to return, except David Graf (Sgt. Eugene Tackleberry) and Billie Bird (Lois Feldman) who have died. Hugh Wilson was slated to direct.\n\nLeslie Easterbrook (Capt. Debbie Callahan) and Marion Ramsey (Sgt. Laverne Hooks) mentioned that filming for the next \"Police Academy\" film was due to start shooting in summer 2006 for a release in 2007. The film was shelved in October 2006. Easterbrook did mention that there was still hope for a direct to DVD sequel. She added that while Warner Bros. wanted to do one, they wanted a producer to get independent financing.\nIn May 2008, Michael Winslow replied to a question about a possible new \"Police Academy\" film: “Anything’s possible. You’ve got to hope for Paul Maslansky and those folks over there to put it together. It’s up to them. It would be great to see everyone again.\"\n\nIn a radio interview on November 26, 2008, with Colin Paterson for BBC Five Live's Simon Mayo show, Steve Guttenberg (Sgt. Carey Mahoney) confirmed that 8 was still in development and that he was working on the script with Warner Bros.. Guttenberg is slated to direct the film, and stated that all of the cast from the previous installments (except for the deceased David Graf, Billie Bird and Tab Thacker) would return to reprise their roles.\n\nAfter seven films in its original ten-year run, New Line is planning on reviving the \"Police Academy\" series, which grossed $240 million worldwide and spawned a pair of TV spinoffs. The slapstick comedy will be helmed by original producer Paul Maslansky. \"It's going to be very worthwhile to the people who remember it and to those who saw it on TV,\" Maslansky told the Hollywood Reporter. \"It's going to be a new class. We hope to discover new talent and season it with great comedians. It'll be anything but another movie with a numeral next to it. And we'll most probably retain the wonderful musical theme.\"\n\nIn an interview with MTV Movies Blogs on March 17, 2010, Paul Maslansky stated that he plans to bring back some of the original cast to train the new recruits. When asked which characters he would bring back, Maslansky stated, \"I haven't decided which ones. And I don't want to mention names and others will be disappointed, at this point, All I know is that I want to bring back some of the older characters to it, and maybe they'll have principal roles, some of them, and some of them might be just you know [a cameo].\"\n\nWhile appearing as a guest on the July 12, 2010 edition of \"This Morning\", Michael Winslow (Sgt. Larvell Jones) confirmed that \"Police Academy 8\" is still in production. In August 2010, Steve Guttenberg revealed a script was being written by David Diamond and David Weissman.\n\nOn August 9, 2010, actor Bobcat Goldthwait (Officer Zed) released a statement urging Hollywood to reboot the \"Police Academy\" series with a new group of actors instead of the original cast members. Goldthwait confirmed that Steve Guttenberg would return and that movie bosses were trying to get Kim Cattrall and Sharon Stone to return for an eighth film though Goldthwait said he had no desire to return to the series.\n\nOn January 9, 2012, New Line Cinema confirmed that Scott Zabielski (\"Tosh.0\") will be the director of the upcoming film. During a radio interview on March 21, 2012, Michael Winslow stated that production of the eighth film was due to begin in November and that an offer had been made to Shaquille O'Neal to replace the late Bubba Smith as Hightower. On June 5, 2012, Jeremy Garelick (\"The Break-Up\") was hired by New Line Cinema to help rewrite the aforementioned script.\n\nOn September 3, 2018, Steve Guttenberg announced that a new \"Police Academy\" film was in the works when he responded to a fan on Twitter saying \"the next Police Academy is coming, no details yet, but it is in a gift bag being readied!\"\n\nAn animated comedy entitled \"Police Academy: The Series, also known as \"Police Academy: The Animated Series\", was produced by Ruby-Spears Productions and Warner Bros. Television. It ran from September 1988 to September 1989, lasting two seasons with 65 episodes produced.\n\n\"\" was a 1997 live-action show based on the films, comprising 26 hour-long episodes. It was produced by Warner Bros. Television and Protocol Entertainment. Michael Winslow reprised his role from the films, the only cast member from the films to have a recurring role on the show, although several others made occasional guest appearances.\n\nThe Blue Oyster Bar is a fictional gay bar, and the setting of a recurring gag-scene. The bar is a stereotypical depiction of a leathermen's/bear gay bar, featuring patrons dressed up as bikers in leather clothing, and as police officers, sailors, and other stereotypical masculine gay fashion archetypes. The Blue Oyster was originally located on Howell Street in the first movie, but was relocated to 655 Cowan Avenue in the second (Proctor erroneously gives the address number as 621).\n\nWithin the film series, unsuspecting characters periodically enter the bar unaware of its nature, usually as the result of a prank by the lead characters. Once inside the victims are trapped and forced to dance with the patrons to the signature tune, \"El Bimbo\". Among those lured into the bar were: \n\n"}
{"id": "30865543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865543", "title": "Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation", "text": "Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation\n\nThe hormonal theory of sexuality holds that, just as exposure to certain hormones plays a role in fetal sex differentiation, such exposure also influences the sexual orientation that emerges later in the adult. Prenatal hormones may be seen as the primary determinant of adult sexual orientation, or a co-factor with genes, biological factors and/or environmental and social conditions.\n\nThe hormonal theory of sexuality and gender identity holds that, just as exposure to certain hormones plays a role in fetal sex differentiation, such exposure also influences the sexual orientation and or gender identity that emerges later in the adult. Differences in brain structure that come about from chemical messengers and genes interacting on developing brain cells are believed to be the basis of sex differences in countless behaviors, including sexual orientation. Prenatal factors that affect or interfere with the interaction of these hormones on the developing brain can influence later sex-typed behavior in children. This hypothesis is originated from countless experimental studies in non-human mammals, yet the argument that similar effects can be seen in human neurobehavioral development is a much debated topic among scholars. Recent studies, however, have provided evidence in support of prenatal androgen exposure influencing childhood sex-typed behavior.\n\nFetal hormones may be seen as either the primary influence upon adult sexual orientation or as a co-factor interacting with genes and/or environmental and social conditions. However, Garcia-Falgueras and Dick Swaab disagree that social conditions influence sexual orientation to a large degree. As seen in young children as well as in vervet and rhesus monkeys, sexually differentiated behavior in toy preference is differing in males versus females, where females prefer dolls and males prefer toy balls and cars; these preferences can be seen as early as 3–8 months in humans. It is impossible to completely rule out the social environment or the child's cognitive understanding of gender when discussing sex typed play in androgen-exposed girls. Conversely, children tend towards objects which have been labelled for their own sex, or toys that they have seen members of their sex playing with previously.\n\nAn endocrinology study by Garcia-Falgueras and Swaab postulated that \"In humans, the main mechanism responsible of sexual identity and orientation involves a direct effect of testosterone on the developing brain.\" Further, their study puts forward that intrauterine exposure to hormones is largely determinative. Sketching the argument briefly here, the authors say that sexual organs are differentiated first, and then the brain is sexually differentiated \"under the influence, mainly, of sex hormones such as testosterone, estrogen and progesterone on the developing brain cells and under the presence of different genes as well ... . The changes brought about in this stage are permanent. ... [S]exual differentiation of the brain is not caused by hormones alone, even though they are very important for gender identity and sexual orientation.\"\n\nFetal gonads develop primarily based on the presence or absence of androgen hormones, mainly testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and androstenedione; production of testosterone and conversion into dihydrotestosterone during weeks 6 to 12 of pregnancy are key factors in the production of a male fetus's penis, scrotum and prostate. In a female, on the other hand, absence of these levels of androgens results in development of typically female genitals. Following this, sexual differentiation of the brain occurs; sex hormones exert organizational effects on the brain that will be activated in puberty. As a result of these two processes occurring separately, the degree of genital masculinization does not necessarily relate to the masculinization of the brain. Sex differences in the brain have been found in many structures, most notably the hypothalamus and the amygdala. However, few of these have been related to behavioral sex differences, and scientists are still working to establish firm links between early hormones, brain development and behavior. The study of the organizational theory of prenatal hormones can be difficult, as ethically researchers cannot alter hormones in a developing fetus; instead, scholars must rely on naturally occurring abnormalities of development to provide answers.\n\nMost extensively studied in organizational effects of hormones is congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). CAH is a genetic disease that results in exposure to high levels of androgens beginning early in gestation. Girls with CAH are born with masculinized genitalia, which is corrected surgically as soon as possible. CAH provides the opportunity for natural experiments, as people with CAH can be compared to people without it. However, \"CAH is not a perfect experiment\", since, \"social responses to masculinized genitalia or factors related to the disease itself\" can confound results. Nonetheless several studies have shown that CAH has a clear but not determining influence on sexual orientation; women with CAH are less likely to be exclusively heterosexual than are other women.\nSince hormones alone do not determine sexual orientation and differentiation of the brain, the search for other factors that act upon sexual orientation have led genes such as the SRY and ZFY to be implicated.\n\nAs of 2006 results from studies in humans had found conflicting evidence regarding the effect of prenatal exposure to hormones and psychosexual outcomes; Gooren noted in 2006 that studies in subprimate mammals are invalid measures of human sexual differentiation, as sex hormones follow a more \"on-off\" role in sex-typed behavior than is found in primates.\n\nSome studies do suggest that prenatal stress significantly increases the likelihood of homosexuality or bisexuality, although varying evidence exists for which trimester is most important. Studies of endocrinology have found implications for amphetamines and thyroid-gland hormones to increase homosexuality in female offspring as well, although it has not been examined in conjunction with prenatal stress levels.\n\nSome have postulated that postnatal (e.g., social and environmental factors) development can play a role in the sexual orientation of an individual, yet solid evidence of this has yet to be discovered. Children born through artificial insemination with donor sperm and consequently raised by lesbian couples have typically been heterosexually oriented. Summed up by Bao and Swaab, \"The apparent impossibility of getting someone to change their sexual orientation ... is a major argument against the importance of the social environment in the emergence of homosexuality, as well as against the idea that homosexuality is a lifestyle choice.\"\n\nThere is evidence of a correlation between sexual orientation and traits that are determined in utero. A study by McFadden in 1998 found that auditory systems in the brain, another physical trait influenced by prenatal hormones is different in those of differing orientations; likewise the suprachiasmatic nucleus was found by Swaab and Hofman to be larger in homosexual men than in heterosexual men. The suprachiasmatic nucleus is also known to be larger in men than in women. An analysis of the hypothalamus by Swaab and Hofmann (1990;2007) found that the volume of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in homosexual men was 1.7 times larger than a reference group of male subjects, and contained 2.1 times as many cells. During development, the volume of the SCN and the cell counts reach peak value at approximately 13 to 16 months after birth; at this age, the SCN contains the same number of cells as was found in adult male homosexuals, yet in a reference group of heterosexual males the cell numbers begin to decline to the adult value of 35% of the peak value. These results have yet to be replicated, however; there also has yet to be a meaningful interpretation of these results provided in the context of human sexual orientation. Some studies suggest gay men have also been shown to have higher levels of circulating androgens and larger penises, on average, than heterosexual men.\n\nAccording to some studies, gay men have more older brothers on average, a phenomenon known as the fraternal birth order effect. It has been suggested that the greater the number of older male siblings the higher the level of androgen fetuses are exposed to. No evidence of birth order effects have been observed in women. The theory holds that the fraternal birth order effect is a result of a maternal immune response that is produced towards a factor of male development over several male pregnancies. Bogaert's hypothesis argues that \"the target of the immune response may be malespecific molecules on the surface of male fetal brain cells (e.g., including those in the anterior hypothalamus). Antimale antibodies might bind to these molecules and thus interfere with their role in normal sexual differentiation, leading some later born males to being attracted to men as opposed to women.\" Garcia-Falgueras and Swaab state that \"The ... fraternal birth order effect ... is putatively explained by an immunological response by the mother to a product of the Y chromosome of her sons. The chance of such an immune response to male factors would increase with every pregnancy resulting in the birth of a son.\"\n\nWhile direct support has not been found for these hypotheses, evidence that favours this theory exists.<ref name=\"Blanchard/Lippa cite\"></ref> Further, while percentages of the likelihood of homosexuality have been estimated to be increased by 15–48% per older brother, these odds really account for only a few percent of the population; thus, this hypothesis cannot be universally applied to the majority of homosexual men. Not all studies have been able to reproduce the fraternal birth order effect. Some did not find any statistically significant difference in either the sibling composition or rate of older brothers of gay and straight men, including large, nationally representative studies in the US and Denmark.\n\nIn conjunction with fraternal birth order, handedness provides further evidence of prenatal effects on sexual orientation, because handedness is regarded by many as a marker of early neurodevelopment. Other correlates to handedness (e.g., cerebral laterality, prenatal hormonal profiles, spatial ability) have been linked to sexual orientation, either empirically and/or theoretically. In right-handed individuals, the number of older brothers increased the odds of homosexual orientation, but this effect was not seen in left-handed individuals. As with other purported marks indicating higher incidence of homosexuality, however, the link with handedness remains ambiguous and several studies have been unable to replicate it.\n\nA gene of the \"Rh\" system has been discussed as a possible candidate for affecting fraternal birth order, as it has been linked to both handedness and immune system functioning. Gene variants in the \"Rh\" system are implicated in a maternal response to what is known as hemolytic disease of the newborn. \"Rh\" is a factor in blood, and in cases where the mother is absent of this (\"Rh-\") while carrying an \"Rh+\" fetus, an immune response may develop with deleterious effects. The \"Rh\" gene hypothesis is a strong candidate because not only does it involve the maternal immune response, but it has been implicated in handedness as well.\n\nVariants of the androgen receptor (\"AR\") gene have also been discussed, in that non-right-handedness in men has been linked with greater CAG repeats in the \"AR\" gene, which in turn is associated with lower testosterone. A theory that high prenatal testosterone leads to neuronal and axonal loss in the corpus callosum is supported by this hypothesis.\n\nIn a 1991 study, Simon LeVay demonstrated that a tiny clump of neurons of the anterior hypothalamus—which is believed to control sexual behavior and linked to prenatal hormones—known as the interstitial nuclei of the anterior was, on average, more than twice the size in heterosexual men when contrasted to homosexual men. Due to this area also being nearly twice the size in heterosexual men than in heterosexual women, the implication is that the sexual differentiation of the hypothalamus in homosexuals is in a female direction. In 2003 scientists at Oregon State University announced that they had replicated his findings in sheep. Later studies in humans, however, have yet to confirm this finding. \n\nMost empirical or theoretical research into women's sexual orientation has, historically, been guided by the idea of lesbians as essentially masculine and heterosexual women as essentially feminine. Typically, this belief is traced to the early \"inversion theory\" of sex researchers who state that homosexuality is a result of biological abnormalities that \"invert\" sexual attraction and personality. Handedness research has provided implications; because more men than women present a preference for their left hand, the higher proportion of non-right handedness that has been discovered among lesbians when compared to heterosexual women demonstrates a possible link of prenatal masculinization and sexual orientation. Backing this up are reports that lesbians display more masculinized 2D;4D digit ratios than heterosexual women, based on data gathered from at least six different laboratories. This effect has not yet been observed between homosexual and heterosexual males. However, the validity of this measure of digit ratios remains controversial as a predictor of prenatal androgen, as many other prenatal factors may play roles in bone growth in prenatal stages of development. While many studies have found results confirming this hypothesis, others have failed to replicate \nthese findings, leaving the validity of this measure unconfirmed.\n\nDiethylstilbestrol (DES), a drug that has been in the past prescribed to prevent miscarriages, has also been studied in relation to women's sexual orientation. It has been observed to exert a masculinizing/defeminizing effect on the developing brain of the fetus. When compared to controls, higher percentages of DES-exposed women (17% vs 0%) reported that they had engaged in same-sex relations; however, the great majority of DES women stated an exclusively heterosexual orientation.\n\nGirls with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (an autosomal recessive condition which results in high androgen levels during fetal development) have more masculinized sex role identities and are more likely to have a homosexual sexual orientation as adults than controls. An alternative explanation for this effect is the fact that girls with this condition are born with masculinized external genitalia, which leads their parents to raise them in a more masculine manner, thus influencing their sexual orientation as adults. However, the degree to which the girls' genitals are masculinized does not correlate with their sexual orientation, suggesting that prenatal hormones are a stronger causal factor, not parental influence.\n\nTogether with congenital adrenal hyperplasia, DES studies have provided little support of the prenatal hormone theory of sexual orientation; they do, however, provide the framework for possible pathways to a homosexual orientation for a small number of women.\n\nIn individuals with gender dysphoria, previously known as gender identity disorder (GID), prenatal exposure to testosterone has been hypothesized to have an effect on gender identity differentiation. The 2D;4D finger ratio, or relative lengths of the 2nd \"index\" and 4th \"ring\" fingers, has become a popular measure of prenatal androgen because of accumulated evidence suggesting the 2D;4D ratios are related to prenatal exposure to testosterone. Many children with GID differentiate a homosexual orientation during adolescence, but not all of them; adults with \"early onset\", or a childhood history of cross-gender behavior, often have a homosexual orientation. Adults with \"late onset\", or those without a childhood history of said behavior, are more likely to have a non-homosexual orientation.\n\nPrenatal androgen exposure has been associated with an increased chance of patient-initiated gender reassignment to male after being initially raised as female in early childhood or infancy. Gooren found that organizational effects of prenatal androgens are more prevalent in gender role behavior than in gender identity, and that there are preliminary findings that suggest evidence of a male gender identity being more frequent in patients with fully male-typical prenatal androgenization.\n\nIndividuals with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome are almost always brought up as females, and the differentiation of gender identity/role is feminine. This example is important in demonstrating that chromosomes and gonads alone do not dictate gender identity and role.\n\nBecause organ differentiation and brain differentiation occur at different times, in rare cases transsexualism can result. Only 23% of childhood gender problems will result in transsexuality in adulthood. \nDrawing on some transsexualism cases, Garcia-Falgueras and Swaab state that \"[f]rom these examples it appears that the direct action of testosterone on the developing brain in boys and the lack of such action on the developing brain in girls are crucial factors in the development of male and female gender identity and sexual orientation ... .\" Countless studies have been run on peripheral levels of sex steroids in male and female homosexuals, a considerable number of which claimed to find \"less 'male hormone' and/or more 'female hormone' in male homosexuals and vice versa in female homosexuals\". However, these findings have been reviewed and have subsequently been dismissed by scholars as suffering from faulty design and interpretation.\n\nFactors implicated in the development of transsexuality include chromosomal abnormalities, polymorphisms of certain genes, and variations in aromatase (cytochrome P450 CYP19) and CYP17. Girls with congenital adrenal hyperplasia show an increase in probability of transsexuality later in life; however, this risk is still only 1–3% in CAH. Although historically abnormal sexual differentiation has pointed to androgens as a causal factor, there are codeterminants of gender identity and sexual orientation with overriding effects of androgens on the brain, in male transsexuals or homosexuals, or making androgen effects on the brain redundant, as in female transsexuals or homosexuals. These factors are currently unknown, and thus no clear cut answer for the cause of transsexualism and homosexuality exists.\n\nDue to relatively small population sizes, generalizability of studies on transsexuality cannot be assumed.\n\nEndocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are chemicals that, at certain doses, can interfere with the endocrine system in mammals. Work on possible neurotoxic effects of endocrine disruptors, and their possible effects on sexual orientation when a fetus is exposed to them, is in its infancy: \"we mostly know about the relationship between EDC exposure and neurobehavioral function through an examination of outcomes within a limited sphere of questions.\" While studies have found that xenoestrogens and xenoandrogens can alter the brain's sexual differentiation in a number of species used as animal models, from the data in hand to date, it is \"misleading ...to expect EDCs to produce profiles of effects, such as sexually dimorphic behaviors, as literal copies of those produced by native hormones. Such agents are not hormones. They should not be expected to act precisely as hormones.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2167643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2167643", "title": "Preservation Society of Newport County", "text": "Preservation Society of Newport County\n\nThe Preservation Society of Newport County is a private, non-profit organization based in Newport, Rhode Island. It is Rhode Island's largest and most-visited cultural organization. The organization protects the architectural heritage of Newport County, especially the Bellevue Avenue Historic District. Seven of its 14 historic properties and landscapes are National Historic Landmarks, and most are open to the public.\n\nThe Preservation Society of Newport County was founded in 1945 by a group of Newport residents led by Katherine and George Warren to save Hunter House from demolition. They were known as the Georgian Society until they changed their name to the Preservation Society of Newport County.\n\nGertrude Conaway Vanderbilt, Harold Stirling Vanderbilt's widow, bequeathed $1.25 million to the society upon her death in 1978.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "436376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436376", "title": "Primum non nocere", "text": "Primum non nocere\n\nNon-maleficence, which is derived from the maxim, is one of the principal precepts of bioethics that all medical students are taught in school and is a fundamental principle throughout the world. Another way to state it is that, \"given an existing problem, it may be better not to do something, or even to do nothing, than to risk causing more harm than good.\" It reminds physicians to consider the possible harm that any intervention might do. It is invoked when debating the use of an intervention that carries an obvious risk of harm but a less certain chance of benefit.\n\nNon-maleficence is often contrasted with its corollary, beneficence.\n\nThe origin of the phrase is uncertain. The Hippocratic Oath includes the promise \"to abstain from doing harm\" () but does not include the precise phrase. Perhaps the closest approximation in the Hippocratic Corpus is in \"Epidemics\": \"The physician must ... have two special objects in view with regard to disease, namely, to do good or to do no harm\" (book I, sect. 11, trans. Adams, ).\n\nAccording to Gonzalo Herranz, Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of Navarre, \"Primum non nocere\" was introduced into American and British medical culture by Worthington Hooker in his 1847 book \"Physician and Patient\". Hooker attributed it to the Parisian pathologist and clinician Auguste François Chomel (1788–1858), the successor of Laennec in the chair of medical pathology, and the preceptor of Pierre Louis. Apparently, the axiom was part of Chomel's oral teaching. Hooker, however, was quoting an earlier work by Elisha Bartlett who, on pages 288-289, says \"The golden axiom of Chomel, that it is only the second law of therapeutics to do good, its first law being this – not to do harm – is gradually finding its way into the medical mind, preventing an incalculable amount of positive ill.”\n\nHowever, Hooker used neither the specific expression, nor the traditional Latin phrase. A detailed investigation of the origins of the aphorism was reported by the clinical pharmacologist Cedric M. Smith in the April 2005 issue of \"The Journal of Clinical Pharmacology\". It addresses the questions of the origin and chronology of appearance of the maxim. Rather than being of ancient origin as usually assumed, the specific expression, and its even more distinctive associated Latin phrase, has been traced back to an attribution to Thomas Sydenham (1624–1689) in a book by Thomas Inman (1860), \"Foundation for a New Theory and Practice of Medicine\". Inman's book and his attribution were reviewed by an author who signed simply as \"H. H.\" in \"The American Journal of the Medical Sciences\", also in 1860. An American surgeon, L. A. Stimson, used the expression in 1879 and again in 1906 (in the same journal). That it was in common use by the 20th century is apparent from later mentions, such as by the prominent obstetrician J. Whitridge Williams in 1911, as well as detailed discussion of its use in a popular book authored by Dr. Morris Fishbein, editor of \"The Journal of the American Medical Association\" in 1930.\n\nThe article also reviews the various uses of the now popular aphorism, its limitations as a moral injunction, and its increasingly frequent use in a variety of contexts.\n\n"}
{"id": "13345126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13345126", "title": "RPM Nautical Foundation", "text": "RPM Nautical Foundation\n\nRPM Nautical Foundation is a non-profit archaeological research and educational organization dedicated to the advancement of maritime archaeology that includes littoral surveys and excavation of individual shipwreck and harbor sites.\n\nRPM Nautical Foundation (RPMNF) is organized to operate exclusively for charitable, scientific, literary and educational purposes, all within the meaning of sections 170(c)(2) and 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code. The operating purpose of the company is to engage in the detection, identification, study and preservation of nautical archaeological and historic sites for scientific research, public education, the advancement of technology. The organization also provides fieldwork and training experience in the field to students as well as the personnel and staff of various government, cultural and educational institutions.\n\nAmong the goals for RPMNF is the effort to assist Mediterranean countries with the location, identification, assessment, and research of their submerged cultural material so that these important cultural resources can be protected for future generations. Accordingly, RPMNF projects are carried out in conjunction with host governments in the Mediterranean and serve as a crucial component in the effort to protect submerged archaeological sites and maritime heritage in association with UNESCO’s efforts to preserve world heritage sites. RPMNF policy stipulates that all artifacts are under the jurisdiction of the host government at all times. The location and assessment of wreck sites, as well as site and artifact analysis is beneficial to the many governments that RPMNF works with, as it provides cultural authorities pertinent information for protecting archaeological resources.\n\nOver the past decade RPMNF has made advances in maritime archaeology of the littoral region of the Mediterranean through intensive and systematic use of technology. RPMNF’s research vessel, the R/V Hercules, is a purpose-built maritime archaeological platform that has seafloor mapping and three-dimensional modeling capabilities for identification of submerged cultural material sites. The vessel is designed as a self-sufficient base for a wide range of project functions in moderately deep littoral waters, typically limited to 500 m. These operations include remote sensing equipment that includes autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) and various multibeam systems, the deployment of ROVs, data and media processing and other research functions. Hercules is equipped with a dynamic positioning system and advanced data processing capabilities, as well as adequate deck space and lifting systems to transport and deploy survey equipment. Potential sites are verified and documented with ROV investigation. The ROV is employed for video and image documentation, sampling, artifact retrieval, and limited excavation of sites. The ROV is also employed for the excavation of deep-water sites; an excavation methodological process that RPMNF is helping to advance within the field of maritime archaeology.\n\nRPMNF research vessel R/V \"Hercules\" is Maltese flagged and based in Valletta, Malta during the winter months. This research vessel can be deployed throughout the Mediterranean on a project basis.\n\nThe foundation was established in 2001 by its President, George Robb, who was a Director for the Institute of Nautical Archaeology. As part of RPMNF's initial foundation, it was establishes as a supporting institute for the Institute of Nautical Archaeology Early field work centered in Florida and select supporting projects in the Mediterranean. In 2003, Dr. Jeff Royal became Archaeological Director, then in 2011 took over as Executive Director, during which time RPMNF's focus has centered on the Mediterranean. At the end of 2010, RPMNF entered into an agreement and is a supporting institute for the Program in Maritime Studies at East Carolina University. RPMNF continues to grow its associations with Universities, individual scholars, students, and new countries around the Mediterranean.\n\n\nRPMNF's cooperative projects have proved successful in the identification, mapping, and recording of shipwreck sites and harbor works from the ancient through modern eras. To date, project areas include Spain, Albania, Montenegro, Croatia, Malta, Morocco, Cyprus, Sicily, Amalfi and Calabria in Italy, Tunisia, and Turkey. As all archaeological work is performed in conjunction with the host country’s cultural authority, the one of the crucial outcomes is that the projects assist in both scholarly research and educational projects. All recovered artifacts remain under the jurisdiction of the host government for educational/research purposes and eventual museum display in each country. The location and assessment data of wreck sites has proved beneficial to the many governments with which RPMNF have worked as it provides their cultural authorities pertinent information for protecting their submerged archaeological resources. Bathymetric data is also made available to host country hydrographic departments in order to supplement their oceanographic mapping programs. RPMNF research vessel Hercules is flagged in Malta, where it based in Valletta during the off-season, and is deployed throughout the Mediterranean on a project basis.\n\nRPMNF Project reports are filed with the appropriate government agency in each country. Scholarly articles from RPMNF field work are published.\n"}
{"id": "9350888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9350888", "title": "Ripley's Believe It or Not! (TV series)", "text": "Ripley's Believe It or Not! (TV series)\n\nRipley's Believe It or Not! is the name of several documentary television series based on the newspaper feature. The first series aired on NBC from 1949 to 1950, and was hosted by Robert L. Ripley until his death, after which several substitute hosts filled in. The series was revived for ABC in the 1980s, and was hosted primarily by Jack Palance. Another revival debuted on TBS in 2000, and aired until 2003, with Dean Cain as host. A Filipino version, hosted by Chris Tiu, debuted in 2008. An animated series based on the \"Ripley's\" franchise was also created.\n\nThe first \"Believe It or Not!\" TV series, a live show hosted by Robert L. Ripley, premiered on NBC television on March 1, 1949. Shortly after the 13th episode, on May 27, 1949, Ripley died of a heart attack and several of his friends substituted as host, including future \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" president Doug Storer. Robert St. John served as host from the second season until the series ended on October 5, 1950.\n\nIn 1956, ABC Films Syndication had John Gibbs and Meridian Pictures prepare a \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" television pilot.\n\n\"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" later returned to television in a second series from 1982 to 1986, on the American ABC network. Actor Jack Palance hosted the popular series throughout its run, while three different co-hosts appeared from season to season, including Palance's daughter, Holly Palance, actress Catherine Shirriff, and singer Marie Osmond. The 1980s series reran on the Sci-fi Channel (UK) and Sci-fi Channel (US) during the 1990s.\n\nIn December 1995, development was underway by Cinar for an animated series based on \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\". The 26-episode series, titled \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\", was co-produced by French production company Alphanim, which was founded in 1997. The series premiered on Fox Family Channel on July 14, 1999, and was about three young people who discover unexplained mysteries and unusual items.\n\nIn March 1994, a pilot for \"The New Ripley's Believe It or Not\" had been ordered for ABC.\n\nIn December 1998, TBS Superstation outbid two broadcast network competitors to purchase the rights from Columbia TriStar Television Distribution for 22 hour-long episodes of \"The New Ripley's Believe It or Not\", to premiere on TBS in January 2000. The series would air weekly, and would be an update of the earlier program that aired from 1982 to 1986. The new series was to involve correspondents being sent around the world to report on amazing and unusual subjects. TBS had an option to purchase additional seasons, and had won the rights because it agreed to a full season without seeing a pilot. In June 1999, Erik Nelson was signed on to serve as executive producer for the series. In December 1999, Dean Cain was hired to host the new series. Cain also served as a producer on the show, alongside Dan Jbara.\n\nThe new series, simply titled \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\", premiered on TBS on January 12, 2000. The series was primarily shot at a 15,000 square-foot Ripley's warehouse in Sylmar, Los Angeles. Most episodes open with an act that is performed in front of a live audience, while the rest of the episode involves Cain introducing various segments, each one for a different subject. Gregory Jbara served as one of the narrators for the different segments. Kelly Packard became a field correspondent in 2002, and would host coverage of events in which people demonstrate their unusual abilities, usually in front of an audience. The show also features such regular elements as \"Spot the Not,\" a weekly trivia segment in which viewers are challenged to pick the claim that is not real and a special \"Ripley's Record\" commemoration for people who break a world record while appearing on the show. Reruns of the series began airing on The WB in September 2001, and were expected to continue until December 2001.\n\nIn early 2003, Sony Pictures Television ordered an 11-episode fourth season. In March 2003, 11 additional episodes were ordered for the fourth season, which aired on Wednesday evenings at 9:00 p.m. For its timeslot, the series was the top-rated program among its target audience of people between the ages of 18-34, 18-49 and 25-54. In September 2003, Sony Pictures announced a trimmed half-hour version of the existing show that would start airing in reruns on local television channels across the United States.\n\nReruns later began airing on Canada's SPACE station as of 2012. As of 2017, hour-long reruns aired on Chiller.\n\nIn 2008, a new version of the series, hosted by Chris Tiu, began airing on GMA Network, a Filipino television channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19266487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19266487", "title": "Saitama Prefectural Museum of the Sakitama Ancient Burial Mounds", "text": "Saitama Prefectural Museum of the Sakitama Ancient Burial Mounds\n\nThe is a museum in Gyōda, Saitama, Japan. The building is inside of Sakitama Kofun Park. It is one of Japan's many museums which are supported by a prefecture.\n\nThe museum was originally established as in 1969 as part of the construction of , an archeological preserve encompassing the Sakitama Kofun Cluster. In 2006, Saitama Prefecture renamed the museum as Museum of the Sakitama Ancient Burial Mounds and made its goals the research, collection, preservation of the site's archeological data as well as educating the site’s cultural and historical value to its visitors.\n\nNearly 100,000 visitors come to the museum every year to learn about Sakitama Kofun Cluster and its artifacts, including a national treasure, Inariyama Sword. The museum consists of two buildings, Sakitama Shiseki Hall and Shōgunyama Kofun Exhibit Hall, which opened in 1997 and allows visitors to walk inside of the reconstructed stone chamber of the Shōgunyama Kofun.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21847424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21847424", "title": "Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain", "text": "Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain\n\nThe Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain (SAHGB) is a United Kingdom learned society for people interested in the history of architecture.\n\nThe Society exists to encourage interest in the history of architecture, to enable the exchange and discussion of ideas related to this. The Society has no official location and its activities cover the United Kingdom. The Society also represents the interests of UK architectural history to governmental and non-governmental bodies within the education and heritage fields. The Society specifically avoids conservation issues.\n\n\"Architectural History\" is the main journal of the society. It is published each autumn and members of SAHBG receive a copy. There is also a newsletter for members.\n\nThe foundation of the Society was prompted in 1955 by Turpin Bannister in discussion with Frank Jenkins, a British architect and scholar who worked with Bannister at the University of Illinois in the United States. Initially it was conceived as being a chapter of the American Society of Architectural Historians partly because Bannister had been a founder-member in 1940. However, it was decided in 1956 that the Society should be independent. The early members were mainly architects and teachers. The Chairmen of the first meetings were Bruce Allsopp and William A. Singleton, the latter affiliated with the York Institute of Architectural Study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19766923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19766923", "title": "Stylianos Harkianakis", "text": "Stylianos Harkianakis\n\nStylianos Harkianakis (Greek: Στυλιανός Χαρκιανάκης) is the Greek Orthodox Archbishop of Australia and Primate of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia. He serves as inaugural and permanent Chairman of the Standing Conference of Canonical Orthodox Churches in Australia and Dean of Saint Andrew's Greek Orthodox Theological College. He is a theologian specialising in ecclesiology and also an award-winning poet.\n\nHarkianakis was born in Rethymno, on the island of Crete, Greece on 29 December 1935. He studied theology at the Theological School of Halki, on the island of Halki and graduated in 1958. He was ordained a deacon in 1957 and a priest in 1958. He completed postgraduate studies in systematic theology and the philosophy of religion at the University of Bonn in West Germany, from 1958 to 1966. His lecturers included Cardinal (then Reverend Father) Joseph Ratzinger, who later became Pope Benedict XVI. He wrote his thesis on the concept that the Orthodox Church possessed infallibility when it acted together in conciliarity (e.g. the Ecumenical Councils). At that time, the idea of infallibility was thought to be an exclusively Roman Catholic idea, entirely alien to the Orthodox Church.\n\nIn 1965, whilst still completing his postgraduate studies, Harkianakis was appointed Professor of Theology at the University of Athens. In 1966, he was appointed abbot of the Holy Patriarchal Monastery of Vlatodon, in Thessaloniki. He was a founding member, then became vice-president and later president, of the Patriarchal Institute of Patristic Studies within the monastery. From 1969 to 1975, he lectured in systematic theology at the University of Thessaloniki.\n\nIn 1970, Harkianakis was elected the Titular Metropolitan of Militoupolis (whilst remaining in the Holy Monastery of Vlatadon) as exarch in matters concerning Northern Greece and Mt. Athos.\n\nIn 1975, Harkianakis was elected Archbishop of Australia and Exarch of Oceania. In this role, he engaged in many dialogues between Orthodoxy and other Christian groups, most prominently as co-chairman of the theological dialogue with the Roman Catholic Church, but also as co-chairman of the dialogue with the Anglican churches.\n\nHarkianakis has taught Orthodox theology and spirituality at Sydney University since 1975. In 1986 he became the inaugural dean of St Andrew's Theological College where he also serves as Lecturer in Systematic Theology.\n\nIn 1973, Harkianakis was awarded the International Award Gottfried von Herder. A noted poet with an extensive bibliography, he was given the Award for Poetry from the Academy of Athens in 1980. In 1985 he received an honorary doctorate from Lublin University, Poland. One of his poems, \"After Ephialtes\", was set to music by Costas Tsicaderis.\n"}
{"id": "24600336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24600336", "title": "The Heartland Series", "text": "The Heartland Series\n\nThe Heartland Series is a series of television programs about the culture of Appalachia, produced by WBIR-TV of Knoxville, Tennessee, over the 25-year period 1984 through 2009. The series has been produced on a limited basis since 2010.\n\n\"The Heartland Series\" was conceived in 1984 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park with a special series celebrating the people and land of the Southern Appalachian Mountains. Actor Bill Landry was hired to host the series. He had previously been a teacher, had written and begun performing a one-man play based on the life of Albert Einstein called \"Einstein the Man,\" and had portrayed a fictional Tennessee River boat captain named \"Captain Nat\" as part of the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) exhibit at the 1982 World's Fair in Knoxville. Following the fair, he had continued to play the role of Captain Nat on a months-long barge tour of the Tennessee, Cumberland, and Mississippi Rivers that TVA conducted for its 50th anniversary.\n\nThe TV series was initially scheduled to run for just three months. According to Landry, the original concept, formed by WBIR creative services director Steve Dean and station general manager Jim Hart, was \"to take a camera and interview the last remnants of the old mountain people and go on location.” Each episode was three minutes and 40 seconds long, designed to air in five-minute time slots during and after daily news broadcasts.\n\nThe series continued past the short run that was originally planned. Subject matter included geology, wildlife, native plants, invasive species, and other aspects of the region's natural history, Native American lifeways and archeology, re-enactments and remembrances of historical events ranging from events in the American Revolutionary War to coal mining disasters and the early years of TVA, and feature stories about regional culture. As a result of his work on the series, host Bill Landry told an interviewer that he had learned to “tan hides, make jelly butter, saw logs, eat tree bark, carve soapstone, build a log cabin, cut timber, run a sawmill, make moonshine, shoe a horse, call a hoot owl, rut like a deer and know when the buffalo runs.” Traditional music was a perennial topic, including performances by and interviews with traditional musicians active in East Tennessee, demonstrations by craftsmen who make musical instruments, and exploration of musical traditions such as old harp singing and Scottish and Irish influences on the region's music. Two topics that the series generally avoided were politics and controversial religious practices such as snake handling. In addition to the Smokies national park, on-scene production locations in East Tennessee included the Museum of Appalachia, where several episodes were taped, including the titles \"1791,\" \"Just Another Day,\" \"The Music Tale,\" \"The Toggins,\" \"Frontier Music, Frontier Foods,\" and \"Gift for Jacob,\" Rugby, Roan Mountain State Park, the Savage Gulf State Natural Area in Grundy County, and Cumberland Gap National Historical Park.\n\nLandry's skill as an interviewer has been remarked upon by many observers. His folksy, rambling style made him effective at putting people at ease and drawing out the interesting stories of the people that he encountered in the \"hills, hollows, small towns and major cities\" of Appalachia.\n\nIn 1998, the series was expanded to include a 30-minute version airing each Saturday at 7:00 p.m., while it continued to run the original five-minute version during the morning news, after \"10 News at Noon\", and after \"10 News Nightbeat\".\n\nIn total, about 1,900 short episodes and 150 half-hour programs were produced in the show's 25-year history. Bill Landry was host and narrator for the entire series. He also served as co-producer and wrote and directed many episodes. Steve Dean was executive producer for 20 years, and Doug Mills was cameraman for all but one of the episodes.\n\nThe series has been successful with audiences, sometimes achieving audience ratings of 7.0 or higher. In addition to being broadcast on WBIR, the series appeared on WTVC in Chattanooga during the 1980s and was shown on the Travel Channel (under the title \"Appalachian Stories\") for six years.\n\nIn February 2009, WBIR announced plans to suspend production of the series in September 2009 after taking it \"through to some sort of conclusion.\" WBIR general manager Jeff Lee cited economics as the reason for ending production, noting \"it is a luxury for three people to produce 3-1/2 minutes of TV a week.\" He said that the station would continue to show the hundreds of episodes already produced \"for as long as the viewers like them.\" More than 3,000 people signed an online petition asking for the series to be continued, but WBIR followed through with its plan to end it. The last episode was taped at the Museum of Appalachia in Norris on August 8, 2009 before an audience estimated at 10,000 people, one of the largest crowds in the museum's history. People seeking Landry's autograph waited in line for an hour. The final show featured several Appalachian traditional musicians who had appeared previously in the series, including fiddler Danny Gammon, Bobby Fulcher, Tony Thomas and Jimmy McCarroll.\n\nThe last episode was scheduled for broadcast as an hour-long special on September 19, 2009, but to avoid conflict with a Tennessee Volunteers football game the broadcast was postponed and rescheduled to be shown in a prime time slot at 8:00 p.m. on October 17, 2009.\n\nPublic response to the cancellation of the series caused management to reconsider its demise. In 2010 producer Steve Dean was contracted to produce four more episodes, each an hour long. These shows were well received and led to new hour-long installments, to be produced quarterly, through 2011.\n\nDuring its 25-year history, \"The Heartland Series\" received four Emmy Awards, six Iris Awards from the National Association of Television Program Executives, one silver medal and two bronze medals from the New York International Film and Television Festival, and a Theodore Roosevelt Award for Best Outdoor Documentary.\n\nOn the day that the last episode was taped, former U.S. Senator Howard Baker, who had appeared in one episode, called the series \"the last iteration of our history and culture of a generation.\" Mark Brown, Carson Newman College's director of news and media relations, described the series as \"the nation's longest-running sociological video repository\" and said \"it did for Southern Appalachia what Studs Terkel did for Chicago.\"\n\nThousands of hours of never-broadcast videotapes made during the show's 25-year history are being archived in the historical collection of the McClung Museum in Knoxville. Episodes from the series have been incorporated into Appalachian studies curricula, and \"The Heartland Series\" videos depicting Appalachian crafts and craftspeople are displayed in the \"Appalachian Heritage\" exhibit of the Children's Museum of Oak Ridge. United States embassies around the world keep tapes of \"The Heartland Series\" broadcasts as an information resource on life in Appalachia.\n\nThe theme music for \"The Heartland Series\" is an arrangement of the ancient Gaelic ballad \"He Mandu,\" which is played on the hammered dulcimer by folklorist Guy Carawan.\n\n"}
{"id": "54953040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54953040", "title": "The South Asia Inscriptions Database", "text": "The South Asia Inscriptions Database\n\nSiddham or the Asia Inscriptions Database is an open-access resource for the study of inscriptions from South, Central and South East Asia. Siddham was established by the European Research Council with start-up funding from the project . The first focus of Siddham is Sanskrit epigraphy, mainly of the fourth, fifth and sixth centuries CE, but the platform is designed to accommodate inscriptions from all periods. In South Asia alone, the estimated number of historic inscriptions is 90,000. In its next phases, Siddham will expand to include inscriptions in Tamil, Kannada, Prakrit, Tibetan, Burmese, Pyu and Mon. \n\nIn Sanskrit \"siddhaṃ\" means \"success, accomplished, perfected.\" It was also symbolism and substitution for an \"auspicious sign\" found in the oldest inscriptions of the South Asia. In some cases, siddham is not spelled out, but indicated with a sign such as \"Om\" or a \"srivasta\", and various scholars consider \"siddham\" in inscriptions to be equivalent to these signs.\n\nThis word, written out in characters (such as those shown in the Siddham logo) or represented by a symbol, often stands at the beginning of inscriptions in Indic languages. The term \"Siddham\" is also used as a short name for the Indian script known as siddhamātṛkā.\n\nThe records in Siddham have been prepared in EpiDoc, a tool for structured markup of epigraphic documents in TEI XML. \n\nWithin Siddham, each item is listed firstly as an object -- such as a pillar, sculpture, copper-plate, stone slab and so forth. Each object may carry one or more inscriptions, thus each inscription has been assigned a separate Siddham number. A good example is the Allahabad pillar -- a single object -- which carries many inscriptions, among them those of Aśoka, Samudragupta and Jahāngīr. The inscription of Samdragupta appears in Siddham as IN00001. All material generated for SIDDHAṂ is archived in Zenodo.\n\nThe further example illustrated here is from Salihundam, Gara Mandal, Srikakulam district, Andhra Pradesh, India, a Buddhist place located approximately at 18°20'7\"N 84°2'28\"E. At this site, a series of five votive inscriptions are engraved on the semi-circular threshold of a ruined shrine. In Siddham, the semi-circular stone will carry an object number and each votive record an independent inscription number. The photograph of the inscriptions is archived as Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.557032.\n\nTranslations of inscription texts into western languages appear separately in the community called SIDDHAṂ traductions in Zenodo. Each translation is numbered according to the inscription number assigned in Siddham.\n\nEpigraphic documentation involves mapping sites of key dynasties and their inscriptions, especially land-charters recording gifts of land. The mapping undertaken to date can be explored through these links: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38393637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38393637", "title": "The Wonderful Toymaker", "text": "The Wonderful Toymaker\n\nEvelyn’s Sharp’s short story \"The Wonderful Toymaker\" is part of a collection of fairy tales in the book, \"All the Way to Fairyland: Fairy Stories\". The Cambridge University Press originally published the anthology in 1897. An EBook version was made available through \"The Project Gutenberg\" on 3 November 2009.\n\nThe tale of \"The Wonderful Toymaker\" begins with a spoiled princess named Petulant, an eight-year-old girl who cannot be pleased at any cost. Her father, the King, gathers his council together to help find a toy for the Princess that will surpass all others. The Prime Minister volunteers his son Martin to find the princess a special toy. Martin talks with Princess Petulant and promises to return in four weeks with an amazing toy.\n\nAt the beginning of Martin’s journey he encounters Bobolink, the Purple Enchanter who knows everything. Martin hopes that Bobolink will help him to find his way to The Wonderful Toymaker. However, Bobolink is annoyed about having to provide information about everything to everyone, and is initially reluctant to assist Martin. Martin’s lack of flattery towards him serves as a refreshing change, and Bobolink soon becomes quite eager to help him. Bobolink tells Martin that his next step is to reach the pine dwarfs, warning him to avoid conversation with the creatures or he will be stuck in the country of conversation forever. Martin almost makes it through the country of conversation without a single word, but he becomes distracted and engages in conversation with a fish. Martin’s error forces him to \"become conversation,\" and suddenly he is trapped with no way out. The princess continues to wait patiently but she eventually becomes very upset that Martin has not returned with her toy. The council becomes worried, and contemplates where Martin could possibly be. The Princess, alone and sobbing, is confronted by a pine dwarf who promises to bring her to the waterfall and show her the way to Martin. The Princess stuffs her ears with cotton and begins her journey.\n\nPrincess Petulant finally makes it to Martin without speaking a single word, and they are both able to escape. The two run as fast as they can to the toyshop. The Toymaker, so pleased to see them, wishes that they stay and play with him forever. Martin and Princess Petulant play with the best toys they have ever seen, finally satisfying the Princess’ desire for a new toy. Martin and Princess Petulant tell the Toymaker that they are unable to stay and although he is sad, he assists them in their journey home. Upon their return they tell the entire story to a Royal Historian who records it all in the very book in which this story is contained.\n\nEvelyn Sharp (4 August 1869 – 17 June 1955) was a British suffragette and Children's writer born in Denmark Hill, London. She was prevented from receiving a formal education by her family for quite some time, but later entered school and attended Collège de France. Sharp began writing novels and short stories that reflected her understanding of children’s perspectives, as well as her evolving perspectives on life, social issues, and women's rights. In 1906, after becoming inspired by a speech by suffragette Elizabeth Robins, she became active and devoted to the women’s suffrage movement. Sharp married Henry Nevinson in 1933. He died in 1941. Sharp fell into a depression and eventually became blind; she died in London in 1955.\n\n\"From 1903 she was a journalist, writing primarily for The Daily Herald,\" The Manchester Guardian, Pall Mall Gazette, and The Morning Leader. Sharp's \"first short stories appeared in The Yellow Book, and her first novel, \"At The Relton Arms\" (1895).\"\n\nMrs. Percy Dearmer produced all of the illustrations for Evelyn Sharp’s anthology of short stories “All the Way to Fairyland: Fairy Stories.”\n"}
{"id": "16349122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16349122", "title": "Theories about religions", "text": "Theories about religions\n\nSociological and anthropological theories about religion (or theories of religion) generally attempt to explain the origin and function of religion. These theories define what they present as universal characteristics of religious belief and practice.\n\nFrom presocratic times, ancient authors advanced prescientific theories about religion.\nHerodotus (484 – 425 BCE) saw the gods of Greece as the same as the gods of Egypt. Euhemerus (about 330 – 264 BCE) regarded gods as excellent historical persons whom admirers eventually came to worship.\n\nScientific theories, inferred and tested by the comparative method, emerged after data from tribes and peoples all over the world became available in the 18th and 19th centuries. Max Müller (1823-1900) has the reputation of having founded the scientific study of religion; he advocated a comparative method that developed into comparative religion. Subsequently, Clifford Geertz (1926-2006) and others questioned the validity of abstracting a general theory of all religions.\n\nTheories of religion can be classified into:\n\nOther dichotomies according to which theories or descriptions of religions can be classified include:\n\n\nEarly essentialists, such as Tylor and Frazer, looked for similar beliefs and practices in all societies, especially the more primitive ones, more or less regardless of time and place. They relied heavily on reports made by missionaries, discoverers, and colonial civil servants. These were all investigators who had a religious background themselves, thus they looked at religion from the inside. Typically they did not practice investigative field work, but used the accidental reports of others. This method left them open to criticism for lack of universality, which many freely admitted. The theories could be updated, however, by considering new reports, which Robert Ranulph Marett (1866-1943) did for Tylor's theory of the evolution of religion.\n\nField workers deliberately sent out by universities and other institutions to collect specific cultural data made available a much greater database than random reports. For example, the anthropologist E. E. Evans-Pritchard (1902-1973) preferred detailed ethnographical study of tribal religion as more reliable. He criticised the work of his predecessors, Müller, Tylor, and Durkheim, as untestable speculation. He called them \"armchair anthropologists\".\n\nA second methodology, functionalism, seeks explanations of religion that are outside of religion; i.e., the theorists are generally (but not necessarily) atheists or agnostics themselves. As did the essentialists, the functionalists proceeded from reports to investigative studies. Their fundamental assumptions, however, are quite different; notably, they apply what is called \"methodological naturalism\". When explaining religion they reject divine or supernatural explanations for the status or origins of religions because they are not scientifically testable. In fact, theorists such as Marett (an Anglican) excluded scientific results altogether, defining religion as the domain of the unpredictable and unexplainable; that is, comparative religion is the rational (and scientific) study of the irrational. The dichotomy between the two classifications is not bridgeable, even though they have the same methods, because each excludes the data of the other.\n\nThe functionalists and some of the later essentialists (among others E. E. Evans-Pritchard) have criticized the substantive view as neglecting social aspects of religion. Such critics go so far as to brand Tylor's and Frazer's views on the origin of religion as unverifiable speculation. The view of monotheism as more evolved than polytheism represents a mere preconception, they assert. There is evidence that monotheism is more prevalent in hunter societies than in agricultural societies. The view of a uniform progression in folkways is criticized as unverifiable, as the writer Andrew Lang (1844–1912) and E. E. Evans-Pritchard assert. The latter criticism presumes that the evolutionary views of the early cultural anthropologists envisaged a uniform cultural evolution. Another criticism supposes that Tylor and Frazer were individualists (unscientific). However, some support that supposed approach as worthwhile, among others the anthropologist Robin Horton. The dichotomy between the two fundamental presumptions - and the question of what data can be considered valid - continues.\n\nEvolutionary theories view religion as either an adaptation or a byproduct. Adaptationist theories view religion as being of adaptive value to the survival of Pleistocene humans. Byproduct theories view religion as a spandrel.\n\nThe anthropologist Edward Burnett Tylor (1832–1917) defined religion as belief in spiritual beings and stated that this belief originated as explanations of natural phenomena. Belief in spirits grew out of attempts to explain life and death. Primitive people used human dreams in which spirits seemed to appear as an indication that the human mind could exist independent of a body. They used this by extension to explain life and death, and belief in the after life. Myths and deities to explain natural phenomena originated by analogy and an extension of these explanations. His theory assumed that the psyches of all peoples of all times are more or less the same and that explanations in cultures and religions tend to grow more sophisticated via monotheist religions, such as Christianity and eventually to science. Tylor saw practices and beliefs in modern societies that were similar to those of primitive societies as \"survivals\", but he did not explain why they survived.\n\nJames George Frazer (1854–1941) followed Tylor's theories to a great extent in his book The Golden Bough, but he distinguished between magic and religion. Magic is used to influence the natural world in the primitive man's struggle for survival. He asserted that magic relied on an uncritical belief of primitive people in contact and imitation. For example, precipitation may be invoked by the primitive man by sprinkling water on the ground. He asserted that according to them magic worked through laws. In contrast religion is faith that the natural world is ruled by one or more deities with personal characteristics with whom can be pleaded, not by laws.\n\nThe theologian Rudolf Otto (1869–1937) focused on religious experience, more specifically moments that he called numinous which means \"Wholly Other\". He described it as \"mysterium tremendum\" (terrifying mystery) and \"mysterium fascinans\" (awe inspiring, fascinating mystery). He saw religion as emerging from these experiences.\n\nHe asserted that these experiences arise from a special, non-rational faculty of the human mind, largely unrelated to other faculties, so religion cannot be reduced to culture or society. Some of his views, among others that the experience of the numinous was caused by a transcendental reality, are untestable and hence unscientific.\n\nHis ideas strongly influenced phenomenologists and Mircea Eliade.\nMircea Eliade's (1907–1986) approach grew out of the phenomenology of religion. Like Otto, he saw religion as something special and autonomous, that cannot be reduced to the social, economical or psychological alone. Like Durkheim, he saw the sacred as central to religion, but differing from Durkheim, he views the sacred as often dealing with the supernatural, not with the clan or society. The daily life of an ordinary person is connected to the sacred by the appearance of the sacred, called hierophany. Theophany (an appearance of a god) is a special case of it. In \"The Myth of the Eternal Return\" Eliade wrote that archaic men wish to participate in the sacred, and that they long to return to lost paradise outside the historic time to escape meaninglessness. The primitive man could not endure that his struggle to survive had no meaning. According to Eliade, man had a nostalgia (longing) for an otherworldly perfection. Archaic man wishes to escape the \"terror of time\" and saw time as cyclic. Historical religions like Christianity and Judaism revolted against this older concept of cyclic time. They provided meaning and contact with the sacred \"in\" history through the god of Israel.\n\nEliade sought and found patterns in myth in various cultures, e.g. sky gods such as Zeus.\n\nEliade's methodology was studying comparative religion of various cultures and societies more or less regardless of other aspects of these societies, often relying on second hand reports. He also used some personal knowledge of other societies and cultures for his theories, among others his knowledge of Hindu folk religion.\n\nHe has been criticized for vagueness in defining his key concepts. Like Frazer and Tylor he has also been accused of out-of-context comparisons of religious beliefs of very different societies and cultures.\nHe has also been accused of having a pro-religious bias (Christian and Hindu), though this bias does not seem essential for his theory.\n\nThe anthropologist Edward Evan Evans-Pritchard (1902–1973) did extensive ethnographic studies among the Azande and Nuer peoples who were considered \"primitive\" by society and earlier scholars. Evans-Pritchard saw these people as different, but not primitive.\n\nUnlike the previous scholars, Evans-Pritchard did not propose a grand universal theory and he did extensive long-term fieldwork among \"primitive\" peoples, studying their culture and religion, among other among the Azande. Not just passing contact, like Eliade.\n\nHe argued that the religion of the Azande (witchcraft and oracles) can not be understood without the social context and its social function. Witchcraft and oracles played a great role in solving disputes among the Azande. In this respect he agreed with Durkheim, though he acknowledged that Frazer and Tylor were right that their religion also had an intellectual explanatory aspect. The Azande's faith in witchcraft and oracles was quite logical and consistent once some fundamental tenets were accepted. Loss of faith in the fundamental tenets could not be endured because of its social importance and hence they had an elaborate system of explanations (or excuses) against disproving evidence. Besides an alternative system of terms or school of thought did not exist.\n\nHe was heavily critical about earlier theorists of primitive religion with the exception of Lucien Lévy-Bruhl, asserting that they made statements about primitive people without having enough inside knowledge to make more than a guess. In spite of his praise of Bruhl's works, Evans-Pritchard disagreed with Bruhl's statement that a member of a \"primitive\" tribe saying \"I am the moon\" is prelogical, but that this statement makes perfect sense within their culture if understood metaphorically.\n\nApart from the Azande, Evans-Pritchard, also studied the neighbouring, but very different Nuer people. The Nuer had had an abstract monotheistic faith, somewhat similar to Christianity and Judaism, though it included lesser spirits. They had also totemism, but this was a minor aspect of their religion and hence a corrective to Durkheim's generalizations should be made. Evans-Pritchard did not propose a theory of religion\"s\", but only a theory of the Nuer religion.\n\nThe anthropologist Clifford Geertz (1926–2006) made several studies in Javanese villages. He avoided the subjective and vague concept of group attitude as used by Ruth Benedict by using the analysis of society as proposed by Talcott Parsons who in turn had adapted it from Max Weber. Parsons' adaptation distinguished all human groups on three levels i.e. \"1.\" an individual level that is controlled by \"2.\" a social system that is in turn controlled by \"3.\" a cultural system. Geertz followed Weber when he wrote that \"man is an animal suspended in webs of significance he himself has spun and the analysis of it to be therefore not an experimental science in search of law but an interpretive one in search of meaning\". Geertz held the view that mere explanations to describe religions and cultures are not sufficient: interpretations are needed too. He advocated what he called \"thick descriptions\" to interpret symbols by observing them in use, and for this work, he was known as a founder of symbolic anthropology. \n\nGeertz saw religion as one of the cultural systems of a society. He defined religion as \nWith symbols Geertz meant a carrier that embodies a conception, because he saw religion and culture as systems of communication.\n\nThis definition emphasizes the mutual reinforcement between world view and ethos.\nThough he used more or less the same methodology as Evans-Pritchard, he did not share Evans-Pritchard's hope that a theory of religion could ever be found. Geertz proposed methodology was not the scientific method of the natural science, but the method of historians studying history.\n\nThe social philosopher Karl Marx (1818–1883) held a materialist worldview.\nAccording to Marx, the dynamics of society were determined by the relations of production, that is, the relations that its members needed to enter into to produce their means of survival.\n\nDeveloping on the ideas of Ludwig Feuerbach, he saw religion as a product of alienation that was functional to relieving people's immediate suffering, and as an ideology that masked the real nature of social relations.\nHe deemed it a contingent part of human culture, that would have disappeared after the abolition of class society.\n\nThese claims were limited, however, to his analysis of the historical relationship between European cultures, political institutions, and their Christian religious traditions.\nMarxist views strongly influenced individuals' comprehension and conclusions about society, among others the anthropological school of cultural materialism.\n\nMarx' explanations for all religions, always, in all forms, and everywhere have never been taken seriously by many experts in the field, though a substantial fraction accept that Marx' views possibly explain some aspects of religions.\n\nSome recent work has suggested that, while the standard account of Marx's analysis of religion is true, it is also only one side of a dialectical account, which takes seriously the disruptive, as well as the passifying moments of religion \nSigmund Freud (1856–1939) saw religion as an illusion, a belief that people very much wanted to be true. Unlike Tylor and Frazer, Freud attempted to explain why religion persists in spite of the lack of evidence for its tenets. Freud asserted that religion is a largely unconscious neurotic response to repression. By repression Freud meant that civilized society demands that we not fulfill all our desires immediately, but that they have to be repressed. Rational arguments to a person holding a religious conviction will not change the neurotic response of a person. This is in contrast to Tylor and Frazer, who saw religion as a rational and conscious, though primitive and mistaken, attempt to explain the natural world.\n\nIn his 1913 book \"Totem and Taboo\" he developed a speculative story about how all monotheist religions originated and developed. In the book he asserted that monotheistic religions grew out of a homicide in a clan of a father by his sons. This incident was subconsciously remembered in human societies.\n\nIn \"Moses and Monotheism\", Freud proposed that Moses had been a priest of Akhenaten who fled Egypt after the pharaoh's death and perpetuated monotheism through a different religion.\n\nFreud's view on religion was embedded in his larger theory of psychoanalysis, which has been criticized as unscientific. Although Freud's attempt to explain the historical origins of religions have not been accepted, his generalized view that all religions originate from unfulfilled psychological needs is still seen as offering a credible explanation in some cases.\nÉmile Durkheim (1858–1917) saw the concept of the sacred as the defining characteristic of religion, not faith in the supernatural. He saw religion as a reflection of the concern for society. He based his view on recent research regarding totemism among the Australian aboriginals. With totemism he meant that each of the many clans had a different object, plant, or animal that they held sacred and that symbolizes the clan. Durkheim saw totemism as the original and simplest form of religion. According to Durkheim, the analysis of this simple form of religion could provide the building blocks for more complex religions. He asserted that moralism cannot be separated from religion. The sacred i.e. religion reinforces group interest that clash very often with individual interests. Durkheim held the view that the function of religion is group cohesion often performed by collectively attended rituals. He asserted that these group meeting provided a special kind of energy, which he called effervescence, that made group members lose their individuality and to feel united with the gods and thus with the group. Differing from Tylor and Frazer, he saw magic not as religious, but as an individual instrument to achieve something.\n\nDurkheim's proposed method for progress and refinement is first to carefully study religion in its simplest form in one contemporary society and then the same in another society and compare the religions then and only between societies that are the same.\nThe empirical basis for Durkheim's view has been severely criticized when more detailed studies of the Australian aboriginals surfaced. More specifically, the definition of religion as dealing with the sacred only, regardless of the supernatural, is not supported by studies of these aboriginals. The view that religion has a social aspect, at the very least, introduced in a generalized very strong form by Durkheim has become influential and uncontested.\n\nDurkheim's approach gave rise to functionalist school in sociology and anthropology Functionalism is a sociological paradigm that originally attempted to explain social institutions as collective means to fill individual biological needs, focusing on the ways in which social institutions fill social needs, especially social stability. Thus because Durkheim viewed society as an \"organismic analogy of the body, wherein all the parts work together to maintain the equilibrium of the whole, religion was understood to be the glue that held society together.\".\nThe anthropologist Bronisław Malinowski (1884–1942) was strongly influenced by the functionalist school and argued that religion originated from coping with death. He saw science as practical knowledge that every society needs abundantly to survive and magic as related to this practical knowledge, but generally dealing with phenomena that humans cannot control.\n\nMax Weber (1864–1920) thought that the truth claims of religious movement were irrelevant for the scientific study of the movements. He portrayed each religion as rational and consistent in their respective societies.\nWeber acknowledged that religion had a strong social component, but diverged from Durkheim by arguing, for example in his book The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism that religion can be a force of change in society. In the book Weber wrote that modern capitalism spread quickly partially due to the Protestant worldly ascetic morale. Weber's main focus was not on developing a theory of religion but on the interaction between society and religion, while introducing concepts that are still widely used in the sociology of religion. These concept include\n\nSomewhat differing from Marx, Weber dealt with status groups, not with class. In status groups the primary motivation is prestige and social cohesion. Status groups have differing levels of access to power and prestige and indirectly to economic resources. In he saw Confucianism as helping a certain status group, i.e. the educated elite to maintain access to prestige and power. He asserted that Confucianism opposition against both extravagance and thrift made it unlikely that capitalism could have originated in China.\n\nHe used the concept of \"Verstehen\" (German for \"understanding\") to describe his method of interpretation of the intention and context of human action.\n\nThe rational choice theory has been applied to religions, among others by the sociologists Rodney Stark (1934 – ) and William Sims Bainbridge (1940 – ). They see religions as systems of \"compensators\", and view human beings as \"rational actors, making choices that she or he thinks best, calculating costs and benefits\". Compensators are a body of language and practices that compensate for some physical lack or frustrated goal. They can be divided into specific compensators (compensators for the failure to achieve specific goals), and general compensators (compensators for failure to achieve any goal). They define religion as a system of compensation that relies on the supernatural. The main reasoning behind this theory is that the compensation is what controls the choice, or in other words the choices which the \"rational actors\" make are \"rational in the sense that they are centered on the satisfaction of wants\".\n\nIt has been observed that social or political movements that fail to achieve their goals will often transform into religions. As it becomes clear that the goals of the movement will not be achieved by natural means (at least within their lifetimes), members of the movement will look to the supernatural to achieve what cannot be achieved naturally. The new religious beliefs are compensators for the failure to achieve the original goals. Examples of this include the counterculture movement in America: the early counterculture movement was intent on changing society and removing its injustice and boredom; but as members of the movement proved unable to achieve these goals they turned to Eastern and new religions as compensators.\n\nMost religions start out their lives as cults or sects, i.e. groups in high tension with the surrounding society, containing different views and beliefs contrary to the societal norm. Over time, they tend to either die out, or become more established, mainstream and in less tension with society. Cults are new groups with a new novel theology, while sects are attempts to return mainstream religions to (what the sect views as) their original purity. Mainstream established groups are called denominations. The comments below about cult formation apply equally well to sect formation.\n\nThere are four models of cult formation: the Psychopathological Model, the Entrepreneurial Model, the Social Model and the Normal Revelations model.\nSome religions are better described by one model than another, though all apply to differing degrees to all religions.\n\nOnce a cult or sect has been founded, the next problem for the founder is to convert new members to it. Prime candidates for religious conversion are those with an openness to religion, but who do not belong or fit well in any existing religious group. Those with no religion or no interest in religion are difficult to convert, especially since the cult and sect beliefs are so extreme by the standards of the surrounding society. But those already happy members of a religious group are difficult to convert as well, since they have strong social links to their preexisting religion and are unlikely to want to sever them in order to join a new one. The best candidates for religious conversion are those who are members of or have been associated with religious groups (thereby showing an interest or openness to religion), yet exist on the fringe of these groups, without strong social ties to prevent them from joining a new group.\n\nPotential converts vary in their level of social connection. New religions best spread through pre-existing friendship networks. Converts who are marginal with few friends are easy to convert, but having few friends to convert they cannot add much to the further growth of the organization. Converts with a large social network are harder to convert, since they tend to have more invested in mainstream society; but once converted they yield many new followers through their friendship network.\n\nCults initially can have quite high growth rates; but as the social networks that initially feed them are exhausted, their growth rate falls quickly. On the other hand, the rate of growth is exponential (ignoring the limited supply of potential converts): the more converts you have, the more missionaries you can have out looking for new converts. But nonetheless it can take a very long time for religions to grow to a large size by natural growth. This often leads to cult leaders giving up after several decades, and withdrawing the cult from the world.\n\nIt is difficult for cults and sects to maintain their initial enthusiasm for more than about a generation. As children are born into the cult or sect, members begin to demand a more stable life. When this happens, cults tend to lose or de-emphasise many of their more radical beliefs, and become more open to the surrounding society; they then become denominations.\n\nThe theory of religious economy sees different religious organizations competing for followers in a religious economy, much like the way businesses compete for consumers in a commercial economy. Theorists assert that a true religious economy is the result of religious pluralism, giving the population a wider variety of choices in religion. According to the theory, the more religions there are, the more likely the population is to be religious and hereby contradicting the secularization thesis.\n"}
{"id": "34472686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34472686", "title": "Time Team (series 19)", "text": "Time Team (series 19)\n\nThis is a list of \"Time Team\" episodes from series 19. The series was released on DVD (region 2) in 2014.\n\nEpisode # refers to the air date order. The Time Team Specials are aired in between regular episodes, but are omitted from this list. Regular contributors on Time Team include: presenters Tony Robinson, Mary-Ann Ochota; archaeologists Mick Aston, Phil Harding, Helen Geake, Raksha Dave, Alex Langlands, Tracey Smith, Cassie Newlands; Jackie McKinley (osteoarchaeologist); Victor Ambrus (illustrator); John Gater (geophysicist); Paul Blinkhorn (pottery expert).\n"}
{"id": "29699801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29699801", "title": "Tomb of the Prophets Haggai, Zechariah and Malachi", "text": "Tomb of the Prophets Haggai, Zechariah and Malachi\n\nThe Tomb of the Prophets Haggai, Zechariah and Malachi (Arabic: قبر النبيا Qubur El Anbiyya, lit. \"Grave (of) The Prophets\") is an ancient burial site located on the upper western slope of the Mount of Olives, Jerusalem. According to a medieval Jewish tradition also adopted by Christians, the catacomb is believed to be the burial place of Haggai, Zechariah and Malachi, the last three Hebrew Bible prophets who are believed to have lived during the 6th-5th centuries BC. Archaeologists have dated the three earliest burial chambers to the 1st century BC, thus contradicting the tradition.\n\nThe chamber forms two concentric passages containing 38 burial niches. The entrance to the large rock-cut burial cave is on the western side, where a staircase descends, flanked on both sides by a stone balustrade. It leads into a large circular central vault measuring 24 ft in diameter. From it, two parallel tunnels, 5 ft wide and 10 ft high, stretch some 20 yards through the rock. A third tunnel runs in another direction. They are all connected by cross galleries, the outer one of which measures 40 yards in length.\n\nResearch shows that the complex actually dates from the 1st-century BCE, when these style of tombs came into use for Jewish burial. Some Greek inscriptions discovered at the site suggest the cave was re-used to bury foreign Christians during the 4th and 5th centuries CE. On one of the side walls of the vault, a Greek inscription translates:\nPut thy faith in God, Dometila: No human creature is immortal!\n\nThe site has been venerated by the Jews since medieval times, and they often visited the site. In 1882, Archimandrite Antonine (Kapustin) acquired the location for the Russian Orthodox Church. He planned to build a church at the site, which aroused strong protests by the Jews who visited and worshipped at the cave. The Ottoman courts ruled in 1890 that the transaction was binding but the Russians agreed not to display Christian symbols or icons at the site which was to remain accessible for people of all faiths.\n"}
{"id": "3105461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105461", "title": "Totem and Taboo", "text": "Totem and Taboo\n\nTotem and Taboo: Resemblances Between the Mental Lives of Savages and Neurotics, or Totem and Taboo: Some Points of Agreement between the Mental Lives of Savages and Neurotics, () is a 1913 book by Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis, in which the author applies his work to the fields of archaeology, anthropology, and the study of religion. It is a collection of four essays inspired by the work of Wilhelm Wundt and Carl Jung and first published in the journal \"Imago\" (1912–13): \"The Horror of Incest\", \"Taboo and Emotional Ambivalence\", \"Animism, Magic and the Omnipotence of Thoughts\", and \"The Return of Totemism in Childhood\".\n\nThough \"Totem and Taboo\" has been seen as one of the classics of anthropology, comparable to Edward Burnett Tylor's \"Primitive Culture\" (1871) and Sir James George Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\" (1890), the work is now considered discredited by anthropologists. The cultural anthropologist Alfred L. Kroeber was an early critic of \"Totem and Taboo\", publishing a critique of the work in 1920. Some authors have seen redeeming value in the work.\n\nFreud, who had a longstanding interest in social anthropology and was devoted to the study of archaeology and prehistory, wrote that the work of Wilhelm Wundt and Carl Jung provided him with his \"first stimulus\" to write the essays included in \"Totem and Taboo\". The work was translated twice into English, first by Abraham Brill and later by James Strachey. Freud was influenced by the work of James George Frazer, including \"The Golden Bough\" (1890).\n\n\"The Horror of Incest\" concerns incest taboos adopted by societies believing in totemism.\n\nFreud examines the system of Totemism among the Australian Aborigines. Every clan has a totem (usually an animal, sometimes a plant or force of nature) and people are not allowed to marry those with the same totem as themselves. Freud examines this practice as preventing against incest. The totem is passed down hereditarily, either through the father or the mother. The relationship of father is also not just his father, but every man in the clan that, hypothetically, could have been his father. He relates this to the idea of young children calling all of their parents' friends as aunts and uncles. There are also further marriage classes, sometimes as many as eight, that group the totems together, and therefore limit a man's choice of partners. He also talks about the widespread practices amongst the cultures of the Pacific Islands and Africa of avoidance. Many cultures do not allow brothers and sisters to interact in any way, generally after puberty. Men are not allowed to be alone with their mothers-in-law or say each other's names. He explains this by saying that after a certain age parents often live through their children to endure their marriage and that mothers-in-law may become overly attached to their son-in-law. Similar restrictions exist between a father and daughter, but they only exist from puberty until engagement.\n\nIn \"Taboo and emotional ambivalence,\" Freud considers the relationship of taboos to totemism. Freud uses his concepts projection and ambivalence he developed during his work with neurotic patients in Vienna to discuss the relationship between taboo and totemism.\n\nLike neurotics, 'primitive' people feel ambivalent about most people in their lives, but will not admit this consciously to themselves. They will not admit that as much as they love their mother, there are things about her they hate. The suppressed part of this ambivalence (the hate parts) are projected onto others. In the case of natives, the hateful parts are projected onto the totem, as in: 'I did not want my mother to die; the totem wanted her to die.'\n\nFreud expands this idea of ambivalence to include the relationship of citizens to their ruler. In ceremonies surrounding kings, which are often quite violent, – such as the king starving himself in the woods for a few weeks – he considers two levels that are functioning to be the \"ostensible\" (i.e., the king is being honored) and the \"actual\" (i.e., the king is being tortured). He uses examples to illustrate the taboos on rulers. He says the kings of Ireland were subject to restrictions such as not being able to go to certain towns or on certain days of the week.\n\nIn \"Animism, Magic and the Omnipotence of Thought,\" Freud examines the animism and narcissistic phase associated with a primitive understanding of the universe and early libidinal development. A belief in magic and sorcery derives from an overvaluation of psychical acts whereby the structural conditions of mind are transposed onto the world: this overvaluation survives in both primitive men and neurotics. The animistic mode of thinking is governed by an \"omnipotence of thoughts\", a projection of inner mental life onto the external world. This imaginary construction of reality is also discernible in obsessive thinking, delusional disorders and phobias. Freud comments that the omnipotence of thoughts has been retained in the magical realm of art. The last part of the essay concludes the relationship between magic (paranormal), superstition and taboo, arguing that the practices of animism are merely a cover up of instinctual repression (Freud).\n\nIn \"The Return of Totemism in Childhood,\" Freud combines one of Charles Darwin's more speculative theories about the arrangements of early human societies (a single alpha-male surrounded by a harem of females, similar to the arrangement of gorilla groupings) with the theory of the sacrifice ritual taken from William Robertson Smith to conclude that the origins of totemism lie in a singular event, when a band of prehistoric brothers expelled from the alpha-male group returned to kill their father, whom they both feared and respected. In this respect, Freud located the beginnings of the Oedipus complex at the origins of human society, and postulated that all religion was in effect an extended and collective form of guilt and ambivalence to cope with the killing of the father figure (which he saw as the true original sin).\n\nIn 1914, \"Totem and Taboo\" received a negative review from Carl Furtmüller in \"Zentralblatt für Psychologie und Psychotherapie\". Other reviews written between 1912 and 1920 include those by the psychoanalyst Wilhelm Stekel in \"Zentralblatt für Psychologie und Psychotherapie\", the neurologist and psychiatrist William Alanson White in \"Psychoanalytic Review\", the biographer Francis Hackett in \"The New Republic\", the psychologist William McDougall in \"Mind\", and the anthropologist Alfred L. Kroeber in \"American Anthropologist\".\n\nFurtmüller wrote that the work showed Freud's increasing \"isolation from the scientific world\". He accused Freud of ignoring criticisms directed against his theories, and objected to Freud's basing his investigations on the theory of the Oedipus complex. He credited Freud with providing a \"compact survey\" of the confusing state of research into totemism, but believed that it was difficult for psychoanalysts to deal with the subject because they could not base their conclusions on \"first-hand experience\", and that Freud attached too much importance to \"the belief of totemistic acolytes that they are descendants of the totem animal.\" He criticized Freud's attempt to explain totemism through parallels with the \"psychological life\" of children, arguing that the analytical results Freud employed were of questionable accuracy and did little to provide a \"solution of the problem of totemism\", and that Freud failed to explain why the totem was represented as an animal. He also considered Freud wrong to consider exogamy one of the most important features of totemism. Though believing that Freud showed \"sharp wit\", he accused him of engaging in \"the free play of fantasy\" where \"logical argumentation\" was needed and of misunderstanding the work of Darwin. He wrote that Freud explained morality as the \"product of a social contract\" and compared the Oedipus complex to the \"original sin of the human race.\"\n\n\"Totem and Taboo\" became widely known in the United States by the end of World War I. According to Annemarie De Waal Malefijt, the book produced \"angry reactions\" from anthropologists even on the basis of its subtitle alone. Anthropologist critics of \"Totem and Taboo\" included Kroeber, who described Freud as a \"gallant and stimulating adventurer into ethnology\" but rejected the idea that Freud's theories could explain social origins and evolutionary phases, Franz Boas, who considered Freud's method in \"Totem and Taboo\" one-sided and useless for advancing understanding of cultural development, and Robert Ranulph Marett, who referred to the work as a \"just-so story\".\nClaude Lévi-Strauss criticized \"Totem and Taboo\" in his \"The Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1948).\n\nKroeber published a reassessment of \"Totem and Taboo\" in 1952. Marvin Harris described \"Totem and Taboo\" as representative of what Boas's followers regarded as \"the worst form of evolutionary speculation\", criticizing \"the grandiosity of its compass, the flimsiness of its evidence ... the generality of its conclusions\" and its \"anachronistic framework\". In his view, nothing about the work prepared \"orthodox Freudians\" to deal with the variety of culturally determined personality structures revealed by the work of Bronisław Malinowski, Margaret Mead, and Ruth Benedict. Peter Farb wrote that \"Totem and Taboo\" \"demonstrates the lengths to which a theorist will go to find an explanation\" for totemism, adding that despite their disagreements on other issues, anthropologists now concur that the work is \"totally discredited\".\n\nGéza Róheim, an anthropologist as well as a psychoanalyst, considered \"Totem and Taboo\" one of the great landmarks in the history of anthropology, comparable only to Edward Burnett Tylor's \"Primitive Culture\" (1871) and Sir James George Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\" (1890). Róheim described \"Totem and Taboo\" as an \"epoch-making work\" in both anthropology and the social sciences generally. Róheim eventually abandoned the assumptions of \"Totem and Taboo\", but continued to regard it as a classic, the work that created psychoanalytic anthropology. Wilhelm Reich, following Johann Jakob Bachofen and other authors, maintained that early human societies were matriarchies and that this ruled out Freud's account of the origins of civilization in \"Totem and Taboo\". Reich argued that Freud's theory that the Oedipus complex was a prime factor in the development of civilization ignored the cultural relativity of the Oedipus complex, which, drawing on the work of Malinowski, he saw as only a result of the patriarchal order.\n\nFreud himself considered \"The Return of Totemism in Childhood\" his best-written work, and \"Totem and Taboo\" as a whole remained one of his favorite works.\n\nThe classical scholar Jane Ellen Harrison called \"Totem and Taboo\" one of the most important works in her intellectual life. Harrison's work \"Themis: A Study of the Social Origins of Greek Religion\" (1912) has been compared to \"Totem and Taboo\", since Harrison and Freud both attempted to find a universal mechanism that would account for the origins of religion. The novelist Thomas Mann wrote that \"Totem and Taboo\" had made a stronger impression on him than any of Freud's other works, and that of all Freud's works it had the greatest artistic merit. The feminist Simone de Beauvoir criticized \"Totem and Taboo\" in \"The Second Sex\" (1949), writing that Freud is forced to \"invent strange fictions\" to explain the passage from \"the individual to the society\"; she saw the inability to explain this transition as a failing of psychoanalysis. Georges Bataille argued that Freud was misled by the \"superficial knowledge of ethnographical data\" typical of his time into concluding that the taboo on touching corpses generally countered a desire to touch them.\n\nThe classical scholar Norman O. Brown criticized the work in \"Life Against Death\" (1959), writing that Freud correlates psycho-sexual stages of development with stages of history, thereby seeing history as a \"process of growing up\". Brown saw this view as a \"residue of eighteenth-century optimism and rationalism\", and found it inadequate as both history and psychoanalysis. The mythologist Joseph Campbell considered Freud's \"Totem and Taboo\" and Jung's \"Psychology of the Unconscious\" (1912) the two key works that initiated the systematic interpretation of ethnological materials through insights gained through the study of neurotic individuals. The critic René Girard wrote in \"Violence and the Sacred\" (1972) that despite the rejection of \"Totem and Taboo\" by \"contemporary criticism\", its concept of collective murder is close to the themes of his own work.\n\nThe historian Peter Gay, writing in \"\" (1988), suggested that in \"Totem and Taboo\" Freud made conjectures more ingenious than those of the philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau. Gay observed that \"Totem and Taboo\" was in part an attempt by Freud to outdo his rival Jung, and that the work is full of evidence that \"Freud's current combats reverberated with his past history, conscious and unconscious.\" The critic Harold Bloom asserted in \"The American Religion\" (1992) that \"Totem and Taboo\" has no greater acceptance among anthropologists than does the Book of Mormon, and that there are parallels between the two works, such as a concern with polygamy.\n\nRichard Schechner criticized Freud for having assumed in \"Totem and Taboo\" that some humans are more \"primitive\" than others. The psychologist David P. Barash concluded that in \"Totem and Taboo\" Freud \"combines idiosyncratic, almost crackpot fantasy with startling profundity and originality.\" Anthony Elliott argued that Freud's account of social and cultural organization suffers from limitations, and that because of anthropological knowledge that became available subsequent to \"Totem and Taboo\" the theories Freud proposed there now have few advocates. Elliott wrote that, \"Freud's attempt to anchor the Oedipus complex in a foundational event displaces his crucial insights into the radically creative power of the human imagination\", ascribing to real events \"what are in fact products of fantasy\". Elliott added that Freud should be credited with showing that \"reality is not pre-given or natural\", but rather structured by the social and technical frameworks fashioned by human beings, and that \"individual subjectivity and society presuppose one another.\"\n\nDominique Bourdin wrote that in \"Totem and Taboo\", Freud \"develops an idea that clearly embarrasses the current psychoanalysts, but that is essential to the logic of Freudian thought: that of Phylogenetics\". The philosopher Mikkel Borch-Jacobsen and the psychologist Sonu Shamdasani argued that in \"Totem and Taboo\" Freud applied to history \"the same method of interpretation that he used in the privacy of his office to 'reconstruct' his patients' forgotten and repressed memories.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31708519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31708519", "title": "Transnational barrios", "text": "Transnational barrios\n\nTransnational Barrios as a concept within Latin American and Latino studies explains the social construction of space, place, culture, traditions, and artistic symbolic meanings that are established beyond national boundaries by diverse Latina/o populations in communities of a hosting country. Therefore Transnational Barrios are seen by scholars as critical spaces to celebrate and embrace cultural production, political mobilizations, ethnic identity and solidarity, and develop a sense of belonging within communities. \n\n\"Transnational\" as defined by Merriam-Webster Dictionary and Thesaurus, is extending or going beyond national boundaries or consisting of persons from different nationalities.\n\nAccording to Anthropologist \"Michael Kearney\", \"Transnational\" deals with forms of organization and identity of Latinas/os that are not restricted by national boundaries, meaning not being constraint by nation-state of origin in order to form a collective identity in a hosting country. \n\n\"Barrios\" refer to a part of an inner city area mostly composed of a Spanish-speaking population. “Both historically and today, barrio formations are the result of specific plans and policies on the local, state, and federal levels that have resulted in high levels of racial segregation, substandard and limited housing stock, poor schooling, and severely circumscribed mobility.”\n\nScholars such as \"Gina M. Perez\", \"Frank A. Guridy\", and \"Adrian Burgos Jr.\" believe that one must use the \"transnational\" approach in Latin American and Latino Studies to create a framework that will better apprehend the diverse experiences of Latinas/os in multiple contexts. As well as confronting the negative notions of \"Barrios\" as being places of social dislocation, and marginalized and criminalized locations. Transnational Barrios therefore strive to create and progress through new meanings, experiences, and identities of diverse and compelling Latina/o populations of various communities throughout the U.S.\n\nAn example of a Transnational Barrio is explained in \"Cary Cordova’s\" article “\"The Mission in Nicaragua\"” in regards to the Nicaraguan community in the Mission District of San Francisco. Nicaraguans in the U.S. mobilized in the 1970s during the \"Sandinista revolution\" to rally support for the overthrow of the current oppressive regime of \"Anastasio Somoza\". They believed that if the Sandinistas succeeded then Nicaragua would become a model for freedom and equality around the world, including the U.S. As citizens in Nicaragua were struggling with control over their own lives, so too were Nicaraguans in the U.S. due to the lack of social reforms needed by the community, mainly because of U.S. capitalism. Artists and activists used the ideas of the Nicaraguan revolution to express the political needs of Latinos in \"San Francisco\" and the Americas. Poets such as \"Alejandro Murguia, Roberto Vargas and Nina Serrano\" accomplished this by creating events such as poetry readings, rallies, demonstrations, and the creation of murals to illustrate the struggles of people in Nicaragua and in the U.S. Cordova demonstrates that the barrio served as a \"transnational space\" where ideas such as revolution, liberation and equality and political mobilization and solidarity could be transformed and used together to fight the revolution abroad and fight the war on the home front. \n\nLourdes Gutierrez Najera describes another example of using barrios as a \"transnational space\" with her study of Oaxacans in the city of Los Angeles. In her article \"Hayandose\", to maintain their Zapotec and Yalalteco indigenous identity, Oaxacans organize to aid one another in times of crisis such as in the viewing of a young Oaxacan individual where a traditional Oaxacan funeral ceremony was conducted in the Koreatown district of Los Angeles. Such practices demonstrate that their strong ties are established and maintained with their hometowns. Given the marginality of indigenous people both in Mexico and the U.S. they create a space of inclusion and belonging by practicing the same customs that they perform in Oaxaca. Traditional Oaxacan dances and festivals known as \"Guelaguetza's\" are as well an important means to celebrate their indigenous roots and reaffirm their ethnic membership within transnational borders. This folkloric dance along with the other customs Zapotecs and Yalaltecos bring with them, situate their barrio as a transnational space.\n\n\"The Nuyorican poetry movement\" of the 1970s in Manhattan’s Lower Eastside is one more example of a Transnational Barrio. The Nuyorican movement was seen as a venue for spoken word performances, stand-up comedy, poetry slams, musical performances and theater productions. The use of code switching between Spanish and English demonstrated the concern for the low income, poor experience of life in New York for Puerto Ricans, which strongly made visible the political motivation behind the poetry movement. \"Miguel Algarin, Miguel Pinero, Bittman “Bimbo” Rivas and Lucky Cienfuegos\" were among the creators and poets of the movement in the 1970s along with other poets such as \"Bob Holman, Saul Williams, Sarah Jones, and Beau Sia\". The transnational space created in the barrios of Manhattan’s Lower Eastside provide New York Puerto Ricans, or as they called themselves Nuyoricans, a chance to mobilize leftist ideals in their poetry, art performances and literature.\n"}
{"id": "35552352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35552352", "title": "Women in architecture", "text": "Women in architecture\n\nWomen in architecture have been documented for many centuries, as professional (or amateur) practitioners, educators and clients. Since architecture became organized as a profession in 1857, the number of women in architecture has been low. At the end of the 19th century, starting in Finland, certain schools of architecture in Europe began to admit women to their programmes of study. In 1980 \nM. Rosaria Piomelli, born in Italy, became the first woman to hold a deanship of any school of architecture in the United States, as Dean of the City College of New York School of Architecture. However, only in recent years have women begun to achieve wider recognition with several outstanding participants including two Pritzker prizewinners since the turn of the millennium.\n\nTwo European women stand out as early examples of women playing an important part in architecture, designing or defining the development of buildings under construction. In France, Katherine Briçonnet (ca. 1494–1526) was influential in designing the Château de Chenonceau in the Loire Valley, supervising the construction work between 1513 and 1521 and taking important architectural decisions while her husband was away fighting in the Italian wars.\n\nIn Britain, there is evidence that Lady Elizabeth Wilbraham (1632–1705) studied the work of the Dutch architect Pieter Post as well as that of Palladio in Veneto, Italy, and the Stadtresidenz at Landshut, Germany. She has been put forward as the architect of Wotton House in Buckinghamshire and of many other buildings. It has also been suggested that she tutored Sir Christopher Wren. Wilbraham had to use male architects to supervise the construction work. There is now much research including that by John Millar to show she may have designed up to 400 buildings including 18 London churches previously attributed to her pupil Sir Christopher Wren.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century, another Englishwoman, Mary Townley (1753–1839), tutored by the artist Sir Joshua Reynolds, designed several buildings in Ramsgate in south-eastern England including Townley House which is considered to be an architectural gem. Sarah Losh (1785-1853) was an English woman and landowner of Wreay. She has been described as a lost Romantic genius, antiquarian, architect and visionary. Her main work is St Mary's Church (Wreay), Cumbria, but she also constructed various associated buildings and monuments.\n\nYet another Englishwoman, Sophy Gray (1814–1871), wife of Robert Gray who became bishop of Cape Town in 1847, proved to be a competent assistant, not only helping her husband with his administrative and social obligations but above all by designing at least 35 of the South African Anglican churches completed between 1848 and 1880, all in the Gothic Revival style in which she showed strong interest.\n\nThe daughter of a French-Canadian carriage maker, Mother Joseph Pariseau (1823–1902) was not just one of the very earliest female architects in North America but a pioneer in the architecture of the north-western United States. In 1856, together with four sisters from Montreal, she moved to Vancouver, Washington where she designed eleven hospitals, seven academies, five schools for Native American children, and two orphanages in an area encompassing today's Washington State, northern Oregon, Idaho, and Montana.\n\nLouise Blanchard Bethune (1856–1913) from Waterloo, New York, was the first American woman known to have worked as a professional architect. In 1876, she took a job working as a draftsman in the office of Richard A. Waite and F.W. Caulkings in Buffalo, New York where she worked for five years, demonstrating she could hold her own in what was a masculine profession. In 1881, she opened an independent office partnered with her husband Robert Bethune in Buffalo, earning herself the title as the nation's first professional woman architect. She was named the first female associate of the American Institute of Architects (A.I.A.) in 1888 and in 1889, she became its first female fellow.\n\nAnother early practicing architect in the United States was Emily Williams (1869–1942) from northern California. In 1901, together with her friend Lillian Palmer, she moved to San Francisco where she studied drafting at the California High School of Mechanical Arts. Encouraged by Palmer, she went on to build a number of cottages and houses in the area, including a family home on 1037 Broadway in San Francisco, now a listed building.\n\nTheodate Pope Riddle (1868–1946) grew up in a well-to-do background in Farmington, Connecticut, where she hired faculty members to tutor her in architecture. Her early designs, such as that for Hill-Stead (1901), were translated into working drawings by the firm of McKim, Mead and White, providing her with an apprenticeship in architecture. She was the first woman to become a licensed architect in both New York and Connecticut and in 1926 was appointed to the AIA College of Fellows.\n\nA notable pioneer of the early days was Josephine Wright Chapman (1867–1943). Chapman received no formal education in architecture but went on design a number of buildings before setting up her own firm. The architect of Tuckerman Hall in Worcester, Massachusetts, she is considered to be one of America's earliest and most successful female architects.\n\nRomanian architect Virginia Andreescu Haret (1894–1962), first woman to graduate with a degree in architecture in 1919 and first woman as Romanian Architectural Inspector General. She continued her studies in Italy. \nShe worked at the Technical Service of the Ministry of Education, for which reason she did numerous and important projects for schools, in Bucharest (Şincai and Cantemir Lyceum) as well as in the country (Bârlad, Focşani). Side by side with buildings of large dimensions, she also designed houses for one or two persons. The mobility did not stop at the studies in Italy, she was present also at numerous congresses of architecture in Rome, Paris, Moscow, Bruxelles ...\n\nA highly influential player was Mary Colter (1869–1958). After studying at the California School of Design in San Francisco, she was employed by the Fred Harvey Company, first for interior design but soon to take on ambitious architectural projects, including landmark hotels and Rustic lodges in the Southwest, several in Grand Canyon National Park. She often used Native American motifs (and artisans) while blending the regional Spanish Colonial Revival Style and Pueblo Revival Style, but she also was fluent in Art Deco and even Streamline Moderne.\n\nRuth Crawford Mitchell an advocate for student immigrants at the University of Pittsburgh, conceived, designed and supervised the Nationality Rooms in the Cathedral of Learning.\n\nElizabeth Wright Ingraham (1922-2013), daughter of John Lloyd Wright and granddaughter of Frank Lloyd Wright, designed approximately 150 buildings in Colorado Springs.\n\nFinland is the country in which women were first permitted to undertake architectural studies and receive academic qualifications even if they were initially given the status of special students. The earliest record belongs to Signe Hornborg (1862–1916) who attended the Helsinki Polytechnic Institute from the spring of 1888, graduating as an architect in 1890 \"by special permission\". She does not, however, appear to have acted as an independent architect. Other graduates in architecture at the Polytechnic Institute in the 1880s include Inez Holming, Signe Lagerborg, Bertha Enwald, Stina Östman and Wivi Lönn. Lönn (1872–1966), who attended the institute from 1893 to 1896, has the honour of being the first woman to work independently as an architect in Finland. On graduating, she immediately established her own architectural firm by receiving a commission to design the building of a Finnish-language girls' school in Tampere. She designed several significant public buildings, including more than thirty school buildings. Lönn won five architectural competitions alone, including the municipal fire-station in Tampere in 1906, an unusual design for a woman at that time. Lönn won two competitions with Armas Lindgren with him she designed the New Student House in Helsinki (1910) and the Estonia Theatre in Tallinn (1913). One of her last was the Sodankylä Geophysical Observatory, completed in 1945. Hilda Hongell (1867–1952), from Finland's Åland Islands, became a special student at Helsinki Industrial School in 1891 at a time when only men could attend the institution. Following excellent results, she was accepted as a regular student the following year and graduated as a \"master builder\" in 1894. She went on to design 98 buildings in the Mariehamn district of the Åland Islands, mostly town houses and farm houses in the ornamental Swiss style. However, she did not qualify as an architect.\n\nFay Kellogg (1871–1918) learnt her architectural skills with a German tutor who taught her drafting, at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, and by working with Marcel de Monclos in his Paris atelier. She had hoped to study at the École des Beaux-Arts but as a woman was refused admission. As a result of her efforts, however, the institution later opened its doors to women wishing to study architecture. On her return to the United States, Kellogg helped design the Hall of Records in Lower Manhattan before opening a studio of her own. She went on to design hundreds of buildings in the New York area, encouraging the New York Times to describe her as \"one of the most successful woman architects in America\". Julia Morgan (1872–1957) was more successful as she was the first woman to receive a degree in architecture from the École des Beaux-Arts. She was initially refused admission as a woman in 1896 but reapplied and was successfully admitted in 1898. After graduating in 1901, she returned to California where she had a prolific and innovative career, blazing new paths professionally, stylistically, structurally, and aeshetically, setting high standards of excellence in the profession. Completing over 700 projects, she is especially known for her work for women's organizations and key clients, including Hearst Castle in San Simeon, considered to be one of her masterpieces. She was the first woman architect licensed in California. Mary Rockwell Hook (1877–1978) from Kansas also traveled to study architecture at the École des Beaux-Arts where she suffered from discrimination against women after sitting for examinations. She was not successful in gaining admittance, and returned to America in 1906, where she did practice architecture. She designed the Pine Mountain Settlement School in Kentucky as well as a number of buildings in Kansas City where she was the first architect to incorporate the natural terrain into her designs and the first to use cast-in-place concrete walls.\n\nFlorence Mary Taylor (1879–1969) emigrated at an early age from England to Australia with her parents. She enrolled in night classes at the Sydney Technical College where she became the first woman to complete final year studies in architecture in 1904. She went on to work in the busy office of John Burcham Clamp, where she became chief draftsperson. In 1907, with Clamp's support, she applied to become the first female member of the Institute of Architects of New South Wales but faced considerable opposition, only being invited to join in 1920.\n\nIsabel Roberts (1871–1955), born in Missouri, studied architecture in New York City at the Masqueray-Chambers Atelier, established by Emmanuel Louis Masqueray along the lines of the French École des Beaux-Arts. It was the first studio in the United States specifically established to teach the practice of architecture. Convinced of the abilities of women as architects. Masqueray was keen to include them among his students. Roberts became a member of Frank Lloyd Wright's design team before partnering with Ida Annah Ryan (1873–1950), in Orlando, Florida. Ryan was the first woman to earn a master's degree in architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology although Sophia Hayden Bennett (1868–1953) had graduated in architecture there in 1890.\n\nEsther Marjorie Hill was the first woman to graduate from a Canadian architecture school, in 1920.\n\nAfter Finland, several other European countries allowed women to study architecture. In Norway, the first female architect was Lilla Hansen (1872–1962) who studied at the Royal Drafting School (\"Den Kongelige Tegneskole\") in Kristiania (1894) and served architectural apprenticeships in Brussels, Kristiania and Copenhagen. She established her own practice in 1912 and gained immediate success with Heftyeterrassen, a Neo-baroque residential complex in Oslo. She went on to design a number of large villas as well as student accommodation for women.\n\nThe first woman to run an architecture practice in Germany was Emilie Winkelmann (1875−1951). She studied architecture as a guest student registered as Student Emil at the College of Technology in Hanover (1902–1908) but was refused a diploma as women were not entitled to the qualification until 1909. Working from her practice in Berlin where she employed a staff of 15, she completed some 30 villas before the outbreak of war. One of her most notable buildings is the Tribüne theatre in Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf, originally a girls school.\n\nThe first woman to become an engineer in Germany was Serbian architect Jovanka Bončić-Katerinić. She received her degree from the Technical University of Darmstadt in 1913. \n\nIn Serbia, Jelisaveta Načić (1878–1955) studied architecture at the University of Belgrade at a time when it was felt that women should not enter the profession. At the age of 22, she was the first woman to graduate from the Faculty of Engineering. As a woman, she was unable to obtain the ministerial post she sought but gained employment with the Municipality of Belgrade where she became chief architect. Among her notable achievements are the well-proportioned Kralj Petar I (King Peter I) elementary school (1906) and the Moravian-styled Alexander Nevsky Church (1929), both in Belgrade. The first female architect in Serbia, she did much to inspire other women to enter the profession.\n\nMargarete Schütte-Lihotzky (1897–2000) was the first female architect in Austria and the first woman to graduate from the Vienna Kunstgewerbeschule, now the University of Applied Arts Vienna, though she was admitted only after a letter of recommendation from an influential friend. A pioneer of social housing development in Vienna and Frankfurt, she combined design with functionality, especially in her Frankfurt Kitchen, the prototype of today's built-in kitchen.\n\nIn Switzerland, Flora Steiger-Crawford (1899–1991) was the first woman to graduate in architecture from Zurich's Federal Institute of Technology in 1923. She established her own firm with her husband Rudolf Steiger in 1924. Their first project, the Sandreuter House in Riehen (1924), is considered to be the first Modernist house in Switzerland. In 1938, she terminated her architectural activities in favour of sculpture.\n\nThe first woman to be admitted to Britain's Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) was Ethel Charles (1871–1962) in 1898. She and her sister Bessie were both trained as architects under the partnership of Ernest George and Harold Peto. In 1893, they both attempted to continue their training by attending the Architectural Association School of Architecture but were refused entry. Ethel completed part of the course offered by the Bartlett School of Architecture, receiving distinctions. As a woman, though, she was unable to obtain large-scale commissions and was forced to concentrate on modest housing projects such as labourers' cottages. Another early female architect in Britain was Edith Hughes (1888–1971), a Scot, who after attending lectures on art and architecture at the Sorbonne, studied at Gray's School of Art, Aberdeen, where she received a diploma in architecture in 1914. In addition to teaching at the Glasgow School of Art, she established her own practice in 1920, specializing in kitchen design. The first women to design a major building in Britain was Elisabeth Scott (1898–1972) who was the architect behind the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre at Stratford-upon-Avon completed in 1932.\n\nA number of the more important women architects in the first half of the 20th century partnered with men, often forming husband-and-wife practices. Such partnerships began in the early years of women's involvement when some of the most successful male architects worked with women. Since the 1960s, which saw increased enrollment by women into schools of Architecture, male and female students have often met and later married; long hours working together and a shared passion have been described as \"the perfect prescription for romance\". A good overview of this topic is also discussed in Ann Forsyth's \"In Praise of Zaha\" \n\nMale-female partnerships in architecture sometimes lead to misattribution of the work to the male partner, often because the male is better known. This can be seen as the result of an underlying discrimination or biased attitude. What has been described as the \"tradition of misattribution\" has remained a \"secret\" until recent years.\n\nSome particularly notable male-female partnerships in architecture include:\n\n\nSeveral women architects have had considerable success in recent years, gaining wide recognition for their achievements:\n\nIn 2004, the Iraqi-British architect Zaha Hadid became the first woman to be awarded the Pritzker Prize. Among her many projects, special mention was made of the Rosenthal Center for Contemporary Art in Cincinnati and the BMW Central Building in Leipzig. When awarding the prize, the chairman of the jury, spoke of her \"unswerving commitment to modernism\" explaining how she had moved away from existing typology, from high-tech, shifting the geometry of buildings.\" Since 2004, she has completed many other notable works including the Guangzhou Opera House in Guangzhou, China, and the London Aquatics Centre for the 2012 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 2010, another woman became a Pritzker Prize winner, Kazuyo Sejima from Japan, in partnership with Ryue Nishizawa. Lord Palumbo, the jury chairman, spoke of their architecture \"that is simultaneously delicate and powerful, precise and fluid, ingenious but not overly or overtly clever; for the creation of buildings that successfully interact with their contexts and the activities they contain, creating a sense of fullness and experiential richness.\" Special consideration had been given to the Glass Center at the Toledo Museum of Art in Ohio, and the 21st Century Museum of Contemporary Art, Kanazawa in Ishikawa, Japan.\n\nIn 2007 Anna Heringer (born 1977, Germany) won the Aga Khan Award for Architecture for her METI Handmade School built with bamboo and other local materials in Rudrapur, Bangladesh. An example of sustainable architecture, the project was praised not only for its simple, humane approach and beauty but also for the level of cooperation achieved between architects, craftsmen, clients and users. Several RIBA European Awards have been won in recent years by the Danish firm Lundgaard & Tranberg where Lene Tranberg (born 1956) has been a key architect. Projects have included the Royal Danish Playhouse (2008) and Tietgenkollegiet (2005).\n\nIn 2010, Sheila Sri Prakash was the first Indian Architect invited to serve on the World Economic Forum's Design Innovation Council, where she created the Reciprocal Design Index as a design tool for Holistically Sustainable Development. She is the first woman in India to have established her in own firm. In 1992, she was a pioneer of environmentally sustainable architecture and had designed a home with recycled material\n\nIn 2013, Women In Design, a student organization at the Harvard Graduate School of Design started a petition for the Pritzker Architecture Prize to recognize Denise Scott Brown who was not awarded in 1991, while her partner, Robert Venturi was. Also in 2013 Julia Morgan became the first woman to receive the AIA Gold Medal, which she received posthumously. In 2014 the Heydar Aliyev Cultural Centre, designed by Zaha Hadid, won the Design Museum Design of the Year Award, making her the first woman to win the top prize in that competition. In 2015 Hadid became the first woman to be awarded the RIBA Gold Medal in her own right.\n\nIn 2014 Parlour: women, equity, architecture published the Parlour Guides to Equitable Practice, which provide a practical resource for moving toward a more equitable profession, with a focus on gender equity.\n\nAlthough until recently their contributions have been largely unnoticed, women have in fact exerted a fair amount of influence on architecture over the past century. It was Susan Lawrence Dana, heiress to a mining fortune, who in 1902 chose to have her house in Springfield, Illinois, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, so ensuring his breakthrough. Women have also played a key role in historic preservation through organizations such as the Daughters of the American Revolution (1890). In 1985, Bulgarian architect Milka Bliznakov founded the International Archive of Women in Architecture to expand the availability of research materials concerning women in architecture. Recent studies also show that from the 1980s, women, as housewives and consumers, were instrumental in bringing new approaches to design, especially interiors, achieving a shift from architecture to space.\n\nA study on experience in Canada highlights the widespread contributions women have made in recent years, developing innovative approaches to practice and design. Women's significant and growing presence in the profession has attracted more attention than issues of marginalization.\n\nExhibitions presenting women's achievements in various fields provided early opportunities for women demonstrate their competence in designing pavilions. They included the 1893 exhibition in Chicago, where the women's pavilion was designed by Sophia Hayden, and two in 1914 in Germany: the Werkbund Exhibition in Cologne, whose \"Haus der Frau\" was designed by Lilly Reich, and the Burga Expo in Leipzig devoted to books and graphic art. Inspired by these successes, in 1928 Lux Guyer from Switzerland designed pavilions for SAFFA (\"Schweizerische Ausstellung für Frauenarbeit\") a fair exhibiting the accomplishments of women first held in Bern. The second SAFFA, held in Zurich in 1958, was put together by a team of 28 female architects, establishing architecture as a profession open to women in Switzerland.\n\nIt is not easy to find reliable statistics on women's place in architecture across the world. Much of the information is dated and some is based on surveys inviting responses but with no guarantee of comprehensive coverage.\n\nIn 2010, a survey conducted by the Architects' Council of Europe in 33 countries, found that there were 524,000 architects, of whom 31% were women. However the proportions differed widely from country to country. The countries with the highest proportion of female architects were Greece (57%), Croatia (56%), Bulgaria (50%), Slovenia (50%) and Sweden (49%) while those with the lowest were Slovakia (15%), Austria (16%), the Netherlands (19%), Germany (21%) and Belgium (24%). Over 200,000 of Europe's architects are in Italy or Germany where the proportions of women are 30% and 21% respectively.\n\nA study conducted in Australia in 2002 indicated that women comprise 43% of architecture students while their representation in the profession varied from 11.6% in Queensland to 18.2% in Victoria.\nMore recent Australian data, collected and analyzed as part of the Equity and Diversity in the Australian Architecture Profession research project, shows that whatever measure used women continue to disappear from the profession. Women have comprised over 40% of Australian architecture graduates for over two decades, but are only 20% of registered architects in Australia.\n\nIn 2016 only 21% of the architectural professionals registered in South Africa were women. A survey by the SA Institute of Architects Eastern Cape institute showed that in 2014 only 29% of architecture students graduating from Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University were women.\n\nA United Kingdom survey in 2000 stated that 13% of practising architects were women although women comprised 38% of students and 22% of teaching staff. Data from the Fees Bureau in November 2010 showed, however, that only 19% of professional architects were women, a drop of 5% since 2008.\n\nIn the United States, the National Architectural Accrediting Board reported in 2009 that 41% of architecture graduates were women while the AIA National Associates Committee Report from 2004 gives the percentage of licensed female architects as 20%. In 2003, an AIA Women in Architecture study found that women accounted for 27% of staff in U.S. architecture firms. The honorific FAIA was held by 174 women and 2,199 men, or roughly 8% in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12796797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12796797", "title": "Çineköy inscription", "text": "Çineköy inscription\n\nThe Çineköy inscription is a Hieroglyphic Luwian-Phoenician bilingual inscription, uncovered in 1997 in Çineköy, Adana Province, Turkey (ancient Cilicia). The village of Çineköy lies 30 km south of Adana.\n\nThe inscription is dated to the 8th century BC. It was originally published by Tekoglu and Lemaire (2000). Another important inscription of the same type is known as the Karatepe inscription, which was known earlier. Both of these inscriptions trace the kings of ancient Adana from the \"house of Mopsos\" (given in Hieroglyphic Luwian as Moxos and in Phoenician as Mopsos in the form \"mps\"). He was a legendary king of antiquity.\n\nThe object on which the inscription is found is a monument to the Storm God Tarhunza.\n\nThe inscription was authored by the man known as Urikki in Assyrian texts, which is equivalent to Warika, or Awariku in Luwian. He was the vassal king of Quwê (Assyrian name), the modern Cilicia. In Luwian this region was known as 'Hiyawa'.\n\nIn this monumental inscription, Urikki made reference to the relationship between his kingdom and his Assyrian overlords.\n\nThe Çineköy inscription was the subject of a 2006 paper published in the Journal of Near Eastern Studies, in which the author, Robert Rollinger, lends support to the age-old debate of the name \"Syria\" being derived from \"Assyria\" (see Etymology of Syria).\n\nThe Luwian inscription reads \"Sura/i\" whereas the Phoenician translation reads \"’ŠR\" or \"Ashur\" which, according to Rollinger (2006), \"settles the problem once and for all\".\n\nThe examined section of the Luwian inscription reads:\n\nThe corresponding Phoenician inscription reads:\n\nAlso, in the inscription, Awariku claims to have built 15 fortresses in his kingdom.\n\n\n"}
