{"id": "35961684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35961684", "title": "Aaron Barlow", "text": "Aaron Barlow\n\nAaron Barlow (born December 19, 1951) is a Cultural Studies scholar. He is a Professor of English at New York City College of Technology of the City University of New York.\n\nBarlow was born in Durham, NC. He earned his B.A. at Beloit College and his M.A. and Ph.D. at The University of Iowa with a dissertation on Philip K. Dick.\n\nBarlow's specialty is the impact of technology on contemporary American culture. His series of 'blogosphere' books, \" The Rise of the Blogosphere\", \"Blogging America: The New Public Sphere\", and \"Beyond the Blogosphere: Information and Its Children\" (with Robert Leston), explores the impact of New Media on American society and culture. He has also written two books related to film and the film industry,\"The DVD Revolution: Movies, Culture, and Technology\" and \"Quentin Tarantino: Life at the Extremes\". More recently, he has moved into other areas, producing \"The Cult of Individualism: A History of an Enduring American Myth\" (2013) and \"The Depression Era: A Historical Exploration of Literature\" (2016) and has edited \"Doughboys on the Western Front: Memories of American Soldiers in the Great War\" (2016) as well as the two-volume set \"Star Power: The Impact of Branded Celebrity\" (2014).\n\nIn 2011, he edited a volume of essays written by Returned Peace Corps Volunteers called \"One Hand Does Not Catch a Buffalo\" in celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Peace Corps, Barlow himself having served in Togo (88-90). The book won a silver medal in the Travel Essay category of the 2011 Independent Publisher Book Awards His academic career includes two years as a Senior Lecturer at the University of Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso as a Fulbright Fellow from 1985 to 1987. Since 2013, he has been Faculty Editor of \"Academe\", the magazine of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) and Executive Editor of the \"Academe\" blog. In 2016, he wrote regularly for \"Salon\" on political issues but stopped after the November election. His article \"The Triumph of the Lie: How Honesty and Morality Died in Right-Wing Politics\" appeared in the Summer 2017 issue of \"The Public Eye\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41974565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41974565", "title": "Acta Koreana", "text": "Acta Koreana\n\nActa Koreana is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering Korean studies published in English by Academia Koreana (Keimyung University). It was established in 1998 as an annual publication; since 2002 it has been published biannually.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the Arts & Humanities Citation Index, Current Contents/Arts & Humanities, Scopus, CSA Sociological Abstracts, Bibliography of Asian Studies,Korea Citation Index, and SocINDEX.\n"}
{"id": "8610130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8610130", "title": "Amauti", "text": "Amauti\n\n<onlyinclude>\nThe amauti (also \"amaut\" or \"amautik\", plural \"amautiit\") is the parka worn by Inuit women of the eastern area of Northern Canada. Up until about two years of age, the child nestles against the mother's back in the amaut, the built-in baby pouch just below the hood. The pouch is large and comfortable for the baby. The mother can bring the child from back to front for breastfeeding or for eliminatory functions without exposure to the elements. This traditional eastern Arctic Inuit parka, designed to keep the child warm and safe from frostbite, wind and cold, also helps to develop bonding between mother and child.</onlyinclude>\n\nThe amauti can be made from a variety of materials including sealskin, caribou skin or duffle cloth (a thick woollen cloth) with a windproof outer shell. Children continue to be commonly carried in this way in the eastern Arctic communities of Nunavut and Nunavik, but the garment is sometimes seen in the Northwest Territories, Greenland, Labrador, Russian Arctic and Alaska. Cloth amautiit have gradually displaced skin garments.\n\nMany external viewers think that the child is carried in the hood of the amauti, and this erroneous depiction can be seen in many works of art. This is not the case. The hood is enlarged in an amauti to permit both child and mother to be covered together, while the child is actually carried in the enlarged and extended back of the garment. The child rides with his or her belly against the mother's back and with knees bent. The garment is secured at the waist with a tie or belt which prevents the child from slipping down from the pouch. The weight of the child is carried across the shoulders of the garment although this weight is typically re-distributed by two more ties which form a \"v\" from the collar bone, with the base secured by the tie at the waist. A final tie attaches to the front edge of the hood, permitting the mother to either open the hood for a curious child to emerge and take in the surroundings, or to pull the hood across closing the child away from the wind and elements.\n\nThere are usually two styles of amauti: long-tailed style \"angijuqtaujaq\", like a dress (shown on the right, with the two women); and skirted style \"akulik\", a longer back with a stylized tail-like hem at the back (shown on the left picture-white). Hood shape, decoration and tail shape all speak to the region of origin of an amauti. The sleeves and hem on a winter amauti are trimmed with solid colour stripes which emphasize the feminine/maternal cut, and the swing of the \"tail\". The winter amauti is classically seen with a white cotton cover (silapak), but also in other solid colours, with an inner duffle inner layer, also trimmed, in a darker solid colour.\n\nIn the past, the longer amauti tails were decorated with talismans such as beads, shells and pierced coins, although dispproval of these talismans as \"heathen\" by the church reduced the frequency within which they were used. The talismans were said to attract spirits to the swinging tail and thus protect the ovaries (and fertility), located at the front, from attracting spirit attentions.\n\nNot shown are the more modern summer amauti which have no sleeves, less insulation, and permit a child to be carried while berry picking or in other summer occupations. They are also used during the winter months of the year, used with an oversized parka covering both mother and baby. The summer amauti is typically made from quilted cloth in any number of patterns. \n\nRecently an amauti beaded by Ooloosie Ashevak, the daughter-in-law of well-known Inuit artist, Kenojuak Ashevak, sold at auction for $19,200 at Waddington's after being estimated at $4,000 to $6,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "38675598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38675598", "title": "Arno Tausch", "text": "Arno Tausch\n\nArno Tausch (born February 11, 1951 in Salzburg, Austria) is an Austrian political scientist. His research program is focused on world systems theory, development studies and dependency theory, European studies in the framework of core-periphery relationships, and quantitative Peace and conflict studies.\n\nTausch received his Ph.D. in political science from Salzburg University in 1976 His habilitation at the Department of Political Science at Innsbruck University was concluded in 1988; the Chairperson of his habilitation commission was Professor Anton Pelinka. Since then he has been adjunct professor (‘Universitätsdozent’) at that department. He was also an associate visiting professor of Economics at Corvinus University Budapest.\n\nTausch was a member of the editorial boards of several scientific journals, among them \"Innovation: The European Journal of Social Science Research\", Society and Economy, (Journal of the Corvinus University of Budapest)\",; and the \"Journal of Globalization Studies\" (State University, Moscow) \n\nHe edited the \"History & Mathematics Almanac\".\n\n, Tausch had authored or co-authored according to his CV on Academia.edu, 19 books in English, 2 in French, and 8 in German, and a number of articles in English, Spanish, French, Russian, Polish and German in peer-reviewed scholarly journals and articles on current affairs.\n\nHe also has written articles for \"Tiempo Argentino\", a newspaper based in Buenos Aires, \"Die Presse\", \"Der Standard\", \"Die Furche and \"Wiener Zeitung\" in Vienna \n\nGenerally, social science literature mentions Tausch’s work mainly in the context of debates on Global Keynesianism ; the Socio-liberal Theory of World Development ; Kondratieff waves ; the measurement of child poverty ; Dependency theory and world system approaches to international relations ; the World Values Survey; Antisemitism; Islamic studies and European Union studies and European Social Policy. \nIn the international press, Tausch's work is seen mostly in the framework of the efficiency and effectiveness of social spending. \n\nTausch published critical studies of the political economy of the European Union, globalization and providing a link between dependency theory and world system theory with the empirical analysis of social development in Europe, especially Eastern Europe and in the Muslim world.\n\nHis research started with a rethinking of dependency theory in the framework of quantitative data and statistical analysis and work on poverty in the leading industrialized countries.\n\nHis doctoral thesis at Salzburg University on \"The limits to growth theory\" was dedicated to the empirical analysis of dependency, income inequality, and social development in up to 40 countries of the world, with country studies for Brazil and Yugoslavia. Following the logic of trying to identify the structures, which block Third-World development in the industrialized countries, he then researched on Austrian arms exports to Third World countries, based on United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency figures.\n\nHis habilitation thesis focused on multiple regression models of global development, based on data from the World Bank and Volker Bornschier as well as the \"World Handbook of Political and Social Indicators III\", and tests the relevance of socio-liberal approaches to world development, already inherent in the writings of classical social democratic development theories in Europe in the 1930s with multiple regression and canonical correlation models. This approach was continued and expanded in \"Socio-Liberal Theory of World Development\" (1993).\n\nLater work dealt with Russia and the global Kondratieff cycle; the effects of the arms trade on social development, especially for the countries of Eastern Europe and the former USSR. Militarism will grow in these countries because of the distribution coalition prone environment of \"periphery socialism\". In the 1990s, Tausch analyzed migration processes and the transformation of post-communist countries.\n\nLater work also included studies of the effects of multinational corporations and their investments in developing countries; work on social indicators of development; Anti-Americanism, child poverty,Islamism, Kondratieff cycles, liberation theology, pension reform, contradictions of European Union development, global Keynesianism and comparative price levels, Islamophobia, social expenditure and public health research.\n\nIn recent years, Tausch’s studies were also debated in the fields of Bibliometry and Scientometry; China studies; environmental studies and studies on unequal exchange; European Union studies; research on globalization and the international political economy; Kondratieff cycles; the measurement of poverty and well-being; Middle East studies and studies about Muslims in Western countries globalization studies; in studies on Terrorism; and in World Values Survey oriented research \n\nAlthough the concept of \"unequal exchange\", as developed by Kohler and Tausch has become one of the standard definitions in \"world system theory\" and in critical studies on globalization and sustainable development, the Turkish economist Turan Subasat (Izmir University) recently criticized this concept by saying that international prices are formed in a complex manner and lower international prices for low income countries cannot simply be considered as evidence for unequal exchange.\n\nThe Austrian political scientist Thomas Schmidinger, writing in the official journal of the Austrian Political Science Association, Österreichische Zeitschrift für Politikwissenschaft, on Tausch's attempts to measure Muslim opinions in Europe comes to the conclusion:\n\n\"\"Tausch attempts to redress the lack of serious qualitative and quantitative social research by using data from the World Values Survey and the European Social Survey. He speaks even of a \"forensic political science \" and a \"forensic sociology\" (p 9). He rightly criticizes that neither the European Union nor the national states in Europe provide adequate resources for such research. Really to resolve this lack of data, a whole team of long-term research would have been necessary. Right here, however, Tausch shows that he [also] does not have enough data and therefore his approach - as he himself writes in the introduction - is \"forensic\". Who really wants to get more secure data in the debate on Islam in Europe should invest in a large-scale study conducted in a methodologically sound way, which should not examine only the Muslim population, but also appropriate comparison groups from the non-Muslim population.\"\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5772178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5772178", "title": "Banu Najjar", "text": "Banu Najjar\n\nBanu Najjar (Arabic: بنو نجّار, \"sons of the carpenter\") or Banu al-Najjar is the name of several unrelated historical and modern-day tribes throughout the Arab world. The individual tribes vary in religious composition.\n\nOne Banu Najjar group is mentioned in the Charter of Medina, and the Banu Najjar of Medina were the maternal clan of Muhammad's grandfather Abdul-Muttalib. Islamic historians like Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani and al-Tabari list them as a clan of the large Banu Khazraj tribe of Medina. Al-Asqalani states that their ancestor was Taymallah ibn Thalabah ibn Amr ibn al-Khazraj. The Banu Najjar had at least three sub-clans.\n\nBefore Islam, the Banu Najjar of Medina mainly practiced traditional Arab polytheism, and owned idols named Samul, Husa, and at-Tamm that were destroyed after the clan converted to Islam. They may have had a tribal alliance with some of the Jews of Medina.\n\nMuhammad initially settled with them when he emigrated from Mecca to Medina. The Prophet's Mosque was later built in the tribe's garden. The Banu Najjar are praised in a hadith attributed to Muhammad.\n\n"}
{"id": "8382597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8382597", "title": "Billy &amp; Mandy's Big Boogey Adventure", "text": "Billy &amp; Mandy's Big Boogey Adventure\n\nBilly & Mandy's Big Boogey Adventure is a 2007 made-for-television animated film produced by Cartoon Network Studios, and is the first made-for-television film based on the animated series \"The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy\", the second being \"\". \"Big Boogey Adventure\" premiered in the United States on March 30, 2007, and in the UK on February 14, 2007, and was released on DVD in the U.S. on April 3, 2007.\n\nIn the future, in a dystopian Endsville, an evil being known as the \"Lord of Horror\" orders his henchmen to go back in time to eliminate Billy and Mandy and prevent them from reaching a powerful hand-like artifact that the Lord of Horror has in his possession. Billy and Irwin of this time hope their past selves can stop the Lord of Horror's evil plans.\n\nTwo weeks prior, Grim is sued for dereliction of duty by his old rival, the Boogey Man, the former having failed to reap General Skarr thanks to an intervention from Billy and Mandy. Grim and the children (including Irwin) are set to be exiled by the Underworld Court and placed in the custody of Boogey, with Grim being stripped of his job and powers and Numbuh 3 of \"\" as his court-appointed replacement. Boogey reveals it was part of his plan to steal Horror's Hand, an artifact capable of bringing people's deepest fears to life and transforming anyone who conquers their fear into the scariest and most powerful being in existence; Boogey himself believes that with its power, children will fear him again. The group eventually escapes and plans to obtain the hand for themselves for various reasons (Grim believes it will get him his job back, Mandy sees it as the way to conquer the world, Irwin thinks it will help him win Mandy's heart and Billy just wants to use it to get a candy bar).\n\nBoth groups eventually reach where the hand is held, where they meet Horror the Ancient (guest star George Segal), a living statue that cut off the hand -originally his left hand- having placed his fears within it. To obtain the hand, two rivaling groups must embark on a race across the Cannibal Run - the most dangerous section of the River Styx - as well as facing their worst fears. Grim and the children win and scrape to obtain the hand. Billy, Irwin and Mandy are easily subdued by their respective worst nightmares (a spider-clown-mailman hybrid, telling jokes to wild bears and growing up into an optimistic woman married to Irwin), leaving Grim to claim the hand unaffected, revealing he lived his worst nightmare every day - living with Billy and Mandy. The hand however is almost immediately stolen by Boogey (who uses it to scare Grim to pieces, though Grim actually blew himself up on purpose). Believing he has won, Boogey turns out to be incapable of facing his worst fear, realizing that he is not at all scary (Grim actually turned the hand's power off right after he picked it up). He suffers amnesia after a series of accidents, and ends up afraid of everything. Billy also reveals that he and his friends obtained what they wanted all along without the need for Horror's Hand.\n\nAfter the Underworld Court arrive to make one last attempt to banish Grim forever, Mandy insistently makes them reinstate Grim as the Grim Reaper, because he saved them from a future ruled by Boogey, but also because Numbuh 3 was too much of an optimist to actually reap anyone. In the end, a naked, cut up, future Billy appears before them to warn that if Mandy had used Horror's Hand, she would have taken over the world in two weeks, becoming the Lord of Horror from his time. Grim decides to put the hand in his trunk to ensure that that future never comes to pass. Future Billy eventually goes back to the future to make sure that things were set right.\n\nThe credits roll, showing that General Skarr used the hole in his chest to keep birds, Mandy became the new Captain of Boogey's ship, Numbah 3 started her own Reaper-for-hire service, Dracula stole Grim's scythe, and Billy eventually became President of the United States.\n\nThe epilogue shows how Billy went back to the future to find that it hasn't changed as Fred Fredburger has obtained Horror's Hand from Grim's magic trunk and took over the world as the new Lord of Horror.\n\nCreating the film was the first time that Maxwell Atoms had created anything with a length of over one hour. That, along with creating the regular season was challenging for him. Boogey Man was chosen as the villain for the film because he was a lesser villain that had a relationship with Grim. This was because Atoms was given the idea to follow a storyline similar to \"\" by a Cartoon Network representative. The role of Numbuh Three was originally supposed to be taken up by Pamela Anderson, but she did not take the part. Afterwards, he decided to use Numbuh Two, who is innocent, as a sneak preview of \"The Grim Adventures of the Kids Next Door\", but ended being suggested by Tom Warburton that Numbuh Three be used instead. Atoms also used some Nintendo cameos in the later part of this TV movie, such as when Boogey Man kidnaps Mandy he makes a \"warp pipe\" appear and its SFX is used when he goes into it\n\nThe title track \"Land of the Dead\" was written and performed by Voltaire. It is Voltaire's second collaboration for \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\", the first being on the episode \"Little Rock of Horrors\" with the song \"BRAINS!\".\n\nThe film was released on DVD by Warner Home Video in the United States on April 3, 2007. The DVD contains both anamorphic wide screen and modified full screen versions with 5.1 surround sound and regular stereo sound. Special features include the original \"Bully Boogie\" episode that Boogey originally debuted in and interviews with the voice actors.\n\nThe film received generally positive reviews from critics. Dennis Prince of DVD Verdict reviewed the movie saying, \"All told, Billy & Mandy's Big Boogey Adventure is a gift from Atoms, and an indulgence of all the goodness and gooeyness that has made the series a top draw on Cartoon Network. Despite the boogers, bare buttocks, and boorish humor, this court finds no real crime has been committed. Case dismissed\". MaryAnn Johanson, of The Flick Filospher reviewed the movie saying \"'Full-length movie. Full of boogers!' promises the blobby green sticker on the DVD. And it's true. But somehow, the tons of gross-out potty humor manages to be delightfully goofy -- perhaps it's the irresistibly cheerful spin cartoonist Maxwell Atoms puts on his demented twisting of kiddie cartoons\" It was nominated for an Annie Award for Best Music in an Animated Television Production.\n\n"}
{"id": "58572360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58572360", "title": "Bishop Hannon High School", "text": "Bishop Hannon High School\n\nBishop Hannon High School was a Roman Catholic comprehensive school on Beechley Drive, Pentrebane, Cardiff, Wales.\n\nThe school was built in the 1960s on a 17 acre site on the edge of what was then the new housing estates of Fairwater. Fifty pupils started in September 1965, before the school was completed in January 1966. The school was designed to take 600 pupils.\n\nBy the early 1980s the school had 670 pupils. \n\nThe school was closed in 1987 and its pupils transferred to other Roman Catholic schools in the city.\n"}
{"id": "26983842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26983842", "title": "British Inspiration Awards", "text": "British Inspiration Awards\n\nThe British Inspiration Awards (BIAs) are a set of industry awards celebrating achievement in the creative industries of the United Kingdom, organised by David Yarnton, the UK managing director for Nintendo. The inaugural awards took place at a ceremony in London on 23 April 2010. The awards, in the shape of a gold statue of Boudica, were presented in a number of categories including art, design, entertainment, fashion and science. All proceeds of the awards are to be donated to various charities.\n\nWith the UK in a recession in the late 2000s, and with a steadily declining manufacturing industry and little natural resources, the creative sector was believed to be the basis for future growth, and was as of 2010 was estimated to already contribute £110billion to the economy per annum, contribute two million jobs, and number over businesses classed as creative.\n\nThe BIAs were initiated by David Yarnton, the UK managing director for Nintendo. He was of the opinion that \"The UK is the creative capital of the World\" and it was \"about time that the UK creative sector was recognised for its achievements\". He was of the belief that, although a world leader in the creative industries, Britain had a tendency to understate its achievements, and thus sought to correct that. The BIAs were therefore created to recognise those who have already contributed to Great Britain's \"economic, social and artistic development through creative endeavor\", and highlight the opportunities Britain offered in the creative industries.\n\nOn the eve of the 2010 United Kingdom general election campaign, on 16 March 2010 the BIAs attracted the support of the Prime Minister Gordon Brown, Conservative Party leader David Cameron and Liberal Democrat Party leader Nick Clegg. The inaugural BIAs were to be presented in a daytime ceremony at The Brewery near Barbican Centre in London on 23 April 2010 (St George's Day). The nominees in each category were announced on 14 April 2010.\n\nAttendees of the ceremony, hosted by Richard Madeley, included nominees David Arnold, Michael Eavis and Gareth Pugh, as well as Phillip Schofield, Ant and Dec, Helen Skelton and Andy Akinwolere.\n\nThe BIA is given \"In recognition of an individual, company or groups contribution to the Creative Economy of Great Britain and the Inspiration that they give to others\". Individual awards are to be presented in categories for the Film; Television; Music; Fashion; Arts; Design; Innovation, Enterprise and Industry; Science and Technology; and Interactive Entertainment industry sectors, as well as a Special Recognition award.\n\nThe BIAs use the symbol of Boudica as their logo and award. Described by the BIA organisers as a \"forward looking woman who inspired others around her\", Boudica was a queen of the ancient tribe of the Iceni of present-day Norfolk, who in AD 60 or 61 led them and neighbouring tribes in a revolt against the authority of Gaius Suetonius Paulinus, the Roman Governor of Britain, before ultimately being defeated.\n\nThe award itself is a gold statue of the stylised version of Boudica depicted in the BIA logo. The logo shows this stylistic representation of Boudica moving forward using four shades of colour, symbolising England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland \"moving forward together as one.\"\n\nThe BIA committee headed by Yarnton is made up of:\nChairman: David Yarnton\n– Russ Lindsay\n– Wendy Malem\n– Tom George\n– Nicola Mendelsohn\n– Philip Snape\n– Allan McLaughlin\n– Adam Clyne\n– Chris Maples\n– Caroline Taylor\n– Elisabeth Murdoch\n– Richard Desmond\n– Sir George Martin\n– Colonel Ben Farrell MBE\n– Lord Michael Grade\n– Lucian Grange CBE\n– Cilla Snowball CBE\n– Ian Livingstone OBE\n– Sir Terence Conran\n– Baroness Susan Greenfield\n\nThe proceeds of the BIAs were to be donated to charity through the Dallaglio Foundation and GamesAid. Through the Dallaglio Foundation, a charitable foundation set up by the ex-England rugby player Lawrence Dallaglio, the major beneficiary of the BIAs proceeds would be Cancer Research UK, with money also going to Help for Heroes (for the UK Armed Forces), the Rugby Players' Association Benevolent Fund, Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research and DebRA (for Epidermolysis bullosa), while GamesAid, a UK charity, is a distributor of charitable funds from the video games industry to children's charities predominantly operating in the UK.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1732709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1732709", "title": "Butt-Ugly Martians", "text": "Butt-Ugly Martians\n\nButt-Ugly Martians is an American computer-animated television series, which aired on Nickelodeon in 2001. There were also three video games based on the series named \"\" for PlayStation 2, \"Butt-Ugly Martians: B.K.M. Battles\" for Game Boy Advance, and \"Butt-Ugly Martians: Martian Boot Camp\" for PC. The franchise also had a toy line by Hasbro.\n\nThe plot of the series begins when the Butt-Ugly Martians (B.U.M.) are forced to invade planets for the evil Emperor Bog, but when they are sent to Earth they become addicted to American culture. Deciding not to hurt Earth, they simply \"pretend\" to be occupying the planet for Bog. They are shown around by their Earthling friends: Mike, Cedric, and Angela. The Butt-Ugly Martians continue to hang out on Earth as long as Emperor Bog never finds out. The show ran for 26 episodes before being cancelled on March 4 of the same year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46305964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46305964", "title": "Crimson Alberta Ferretti dress of Uma Thurman", "text": "Crimson Alberta Ferretti dress of Uma Thurman\n\nThe Crimson Alberta Ferretti dress of Uma Thurman refers to the crimson Alberta Ferretti dress worn by Uma Thurman at the 72nd Academy Awards on March 26, 2000. In a poll by Debenhams published in \"The Daily Telegraph\" the dress was voted the 20th greatest red carpet gown of all time.\n\nThe dress remains among the most iconic dresses worn at the Academy Awards.\n"}
{"id": "40838743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40838743", "title": "Dmanisi skull 5", "text": "Dmanisi skull 5\n\nThe Dmanisi skull, also known as Skull 5 or D4500, is one of five \"Homo erectus\" skulls discovered in Dmanisi, Georgia. Described in a publication in October 2013, it is estimated to be about 1.8 million years old and is the most complete skull of a Pleistocene \"Homo\" species, and the first complete adult hominin skull of that degree of antiquity. According to researchers, the discovery \"provides the first evidence that early \"Homo\" comprised adult individuals with small brains but body mass, stature and limb proportions reaching the lower range limit of modern variation.\"\n\nThe skull has been the cause of a paleontological controversy that is still ongoing as of 2017: many hominin fossils thought to be from different species such as \"Homo rudolfensis\" or \"Homo habilis\" may not have been separate species at all. Rather, they may have been a single evolving lineage.\n\nIn 1991, Georgian scientist David Lordkipanidze found traces of early human occupation in the cave at Dmanisi in Georgia: a hamlet and an archaeological site about southwest of the country's capital, Tbilisi. Since then, five early hominin skulls have been discovered at the site. Skull 5, found in 2005, is the most complete specimen of them all. After further analysis, it was coupled with its mandible (D2600) found 5 years earlier. The final analysis of the discovery took many years and was only published in 2013.\n\nDespite a brain volume the size of a large Australopithecus male, () all the characteristics of Homo erectus are clearly visible on Skull 5. The braincase sizes of the other Dmanisi skulls are between and .\n\nThe cranial superstructures of Skull 5, which are prominent and massive, suggest that it was probably a male. Its face is one of the largest of any human ancestor discovered to date. The zygomatic arches are massive with the right one displaying many traces of deformations, probably due to fractures and injuries. Researchers estimate that the height of the individual was between and and his weight between and .\n\nUntil the 1980s, scientists assumed that hominins had been restricted to the African continent for the whole of the Early Pleistocene (until about 0.8 Ma), only migrating out during a phase named Out of Africa I. Thus, the vast majority of archaeological effort was disproportionately focused on Africa. The Dmanisi archeological site is the earliest hominin site out of Africa and the analysis of its artifacts showed that some hominins, chiefly the \"Homo erectus georgicus\" had left Africa as far back as 1.85 million years ago. All of the 5 skulls are roughly the same age.\n\nConsequently, the paleontological significance of the dating of the Dmanisi skulls is major. It is worth noting that it was not associated with the discovery of skull 5, but with another specimen found at the same site, the Dmanisi Skull 3, also known as D2700.\n\nThe Dmanisi skulls, especially Skull 5 with its comparatively tiny brain compared to other skulls found at the site, suggests that the earliest species of the genus \"Homo\" were actually subspecies of the species \"erectus\". The variation in morphology of all the Dmanisi skulls is so large that had they been discovered on different archaeological sites, they most likely would have been classified as different species. However, all Dmanisi skulls have the same age and have been found at exactly the same place.\n\nFaced with the wide variation between Skull 5 and the other Dmanisi skulls, Georgian and University of Zurich researchers were prompted to examine normal variations in modern human skulls and chimpanzees skulls. They found that while they looked different from one another, the great variations among all Dmanisi skulls were no greater than those seen among modern people and among chimpanzees. Consequently, it was entirely possible that such a discrepancy could be found in \"Homo erectus\".\n\nThis discovery led the scientists to suggest that two species of early hominins, \"Homo rudolfensis\" and \"Homo habilis\", were actually both \"Homo erectus\". This is an ongoing debate among the scientific community.\n\nThe five Dmanisi skulls are named:\n\n"}
{"id": "45508601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45508601", "title": "Documentation of cultural property", "text": "Documentation of cultural property\n\nThe documentation of cultural property is a critical aspect of collections care. As stewards of cultural property, museums collect and preserve not only objects but the research and documentation connected to those objects, in order to more effectively care for them. Documenting cultural heritage is a collaborative effort. Essentially, registrars, collection managers, conservators, and curators all contribute to the task of recording and preserving information regarding collections. There are two main types of documentation museums are responsible for: records generated in the registration process—accessions, loans, inventories, etc. and information regarding research on objects and their historical significance. Properly maintaining both types of documentation is vital to preserving cultural heritage.\n\nPractices for recording information about museum collections began developing in the late eighteenth century. Early collection control systems evolved from library prototypes, borrowing the idea of a sequential numbering system and accession ledgers to connect objects and the information about those objects. In the mid 1900s, formal registration training programs began appearing, and standards for documenting cultural collections were established. It was not until the late 1990s when computers became commonplace that any other major breakthroughs occurred in the documentation and object tracking methods of museums.\n\nA comprehensive object file contains many different types of documentation, following the object through its life cycle. Some of the various events or facets of an object's life that require documentation are listed below:\n\nAcquiring objects, whether temporarily for loan or consideration or permanently for the collection, requires a great deal of documentation. Once an institution accepts responsibility for the care of an object, certain legal obligations are imposed: the item must be properly stored, maintained, conserved, and made available for the benefit of the public. Documenting activities pertaining to the stewardship of cultural property can be helpful in recording and assessing the fulfillment of these obligations. Before an object even arrives at an institution, the first piece of documentation produced is an Initial Custody Agreement. This document contains contact information for the owner/source of the object; intention for the outcome of this transaction—gift, loan, purchase, or bequest; responsibilities for insurance, packing, and shipping; and a description of the object. If the object is to be formally accessioned into the permanent collection, a Transfer of Title is also required upon the object's arrival. The documentation required for a transfer of title could be a Deed of Gift or a sale slip. As part of the standard accessioning process, condition reports are also created, numbers are assigned and marked, and photographs can be taken. These initial documents are the beginning of the object's file. If supplementary documentation, such as Donor and Provenance Questionnaires and research files pertaining to the object's history or context/art historical significance are available, they can be included in the file as well. Documentation of the provenance of a work of art has long been a valuable component of art historical research. In addition to providing insight into the history of art collecting, it can serve as a way to authenticate an object and determine conservation priorities.\n\nThe creation and maintenance of a reliable, accurate, and up-to-date inventory is critical to any collecting institution. Institutions document their collections in order to preserve them and make them accessible to the public. Inventories support the responsible stewardship and preservation of cultural property by identifying objects that require conservation, identifying objects that may require improved storage conditions in order to prevent or mitigate deterioration, documenting the location and movement history of an object for security purposes, documenting the collection in the event of a catastrophic loss, enabling and inviting research on the collection, identifying poorly or undocumented objects so that they may be better researched and documented, identifying missing objects so that appropriate action may commence, and facilitating day-to-day management of the collection. Because inventories can require a sizable commitment of time and planning from staff, a complete, comprehensive inventory is usually conducted anywhere between every five to ten years. In between complete inventories, partial inventories and spot checks are conducted.\n\nOther events in an object's life that require standard documentation procedures are loans—both outgoing and incoming—and exhibitions. Before an object is approved for either loan or exhibition, a condition report is usually recorded to determine whether the object is fit for travel and display. Condition reports provide valuable information about an object's state of preservation at a particular moment in time. They can be conducted by both collections managers/registrars and conservators, and can be crucial in benchmarking the types and/or rate of deterioration and documenting an object's condition history in order to prepare for its care in the future. Condition reports document any obvious blemishes, instabilities, old repairs, and pre-existing conditions. Some of the tools needed to conduct examinations and thoroughly document an object's condition are soft lead pencils, examination forms, a camera, a cloth tape measure, clean white cotton or nitrile gloves, padded muslin rolls and blocks, a flashlight, ultraviolet light, and magnification.\n\nWhen considering outgoing loans, institutions can also request a General Facility Report form to verify that the borrowing museum meets the lending institution's minimum standards of climate control and security. Once a loan is approved, a loan agreement is drafted, which is a binding legal document detailing the minimum requirements of care while the object is in the borrower's possession, packing and transportation arrangements, insurance requirements, guidelines for reproduction and credit, and any other special provisions agreed upon by both institutions. Additional documentation that can accompany travelling objects could also include specific packing instructions with diagrams and an itemized shipping receipt or bill of lading. Copies of all of these documents are stored in the exhibition files, as well as the object's permanent file. An exhibition file could also contain checklists, gallery layouts and lists of object locations, conservation records, computer reports, installation photographs, gallery climate and pest-monitoring records, purchase requisitions, and correspondence relating to the exhibition.\n\nDocumenting conservation treatments is a crucial part of managing collections. There is documentation required pre-treatment, e.g., proposals and examination results; documentation required post-treatment--reports ; and photographs, which visually document the process before, during, and after treatment. In order to determine the conservation priorities and ideal state of an object, the conservator first consults historical/cultural research and conducts and documents a physical examination of the object. Physical examinations can be useful in understanding materials composition and causes of deterioration, and when properly documented, can provide a reference for future conservators. Proposals also document the justifications for the proposed course of action and treatment goals, using both physical and contextual rationale. Before any treatment begins, the object is thoroughly photographed to document the \"before\" state. Once the initial stages of the treatment and cleaning have commenced, more photographs are taken to document the \"actual state\" of the object, free of compensations and old varnishes.\n\nDuring treatment, conservators also document the materials they used, reactions that occurred, information on reversibility, etc. Much of this information can also be summarized in a laboratory master report, which records information that may not be included in final reports, such as reasoning for methods, factors that determine choice of treatment and changes in methodology, material safety data sheets, etc. Final reports can contain this information as well but in less technical detail. A final report consists of \"after\" photographs, a summary of the work completed compared to the goals of treatment, and the conservator's contact information in case future conservators working on the object have questions about the previous work completed. Any documentation of conservation treatments is also stored in the object's permanent file for ease of accessibility and retrievability.\n\nDocumentation describing the art historical context and significance of an object is important to maintain for research purposes. Typically curators develop this research and catalog their notes in the object file. They often publish their results as well, in order to advance the field and bring new understanding or interpretations to various art historical subjects. Many collections professionals benefit from the creation and maintenance of well-organized art historical documentation and research files. Conservators use this documentation in determining an ideal state for their treatment goals based on artistic intent and historical value. Collections managers use contextual documentation to determine the best storage and handling methods for objects depending on historical use. And other curators and researchers use this information to develop exhibitions and to learn about aesthetic and cultural motives, as well as technical qualities of objects.\n\nIdentifying the risks that an institution faces and documenting the policies and measures in place to mitigate those risks is an important aspect of collections stewardship. Having a comprehensive, written Emergency response plan and Integrated pest management program, improves the museum's ability to minimize overall risk to the collections. Institutions also transfer the assumption of potential risks through the use of Insurance. Museums document and track the amount of insurance coverage they carry on each collection and/or object, as well as any specific provisions or exclusions. Any associated documentation needed for insurance claims, such as valuations and appraisals can also be kept in the object file.\n\nAnother facet of managing an institution's risks, involves diligently documenting and tracking the copyright status of each object in the collection. In order to avoid copyright infringement and costly legal problems, museum professionals develop standard processes for recording and updating copyright statuses of objects.\n\nWhen an institution decides to deacession a cultural artifact, documentation discussing the process of consideration for this decision is required. The institution documents the value of the object, the reasons why it is no longer appropriate for the collection; namely: out of context, deteriorated beyond usefulness, duplicate of another object, etc., and how disposal of the artwork will be executed—private sale, auction, donation to another museum, etc. Written collecting and deaccession policies and procedures that clearly outline the collection priorities and acceptable rationale for deaccessions are also documented for the museum's records. This protects the museum from potential backlash when objects are removed from the collection.\n\nDocumenting contemporary art requires a non-traditional approach. As artists increasingly use more ephemeral materials, installations, and digital content to meet their creative needs, the approach to defining the parameters of these new works and how to document them has necessarily evolved. \"Traditionally, the documentation of artwork has focused on materiality and issues of authenticity. Materials are undeniably important to the way we understand art. A working knowledge of and familiarity with various media will allow a registrar to forecast storage needs, foster collections care, and recommend exhibition guidelines...but the conceptual core remains the essence of the work. The new challenge is how to effectively document a conceptual work.\" New strategies for capturing the conceptual core of contemporary artworks include recording perceptions of the work itself, documenting artist questionnaires and interviews to gain insight into intent and philosophy, and recording videos of installation and de-installation processes.\n\nAdhering to cataloging standards while creating and maintaining documentation is necessary for uniformity and accessibility. \"Standards not only promote the recording of information consistently but are also fundamental to retrieving it efficiently. They promote data sharing, improve content management, and reduce redundant efforts. In time, the accumulation of consistently documented records across multiple repositories will increase access to content by maximizing research results. Ultimately, uniform documentation will promote the development of a body of cultural heritage information that will greatly enhance research and teaching in the arts and humanities.\" Standards can dictate processes like numbering and measuring, as well as data entry methods like choosing which categories of information to include (metadata sets), which words to use (thesauri and authority lists), and how to format data content.\n\nNumbering and marking an object (usually with the object's accession number) is part of the initial cataloging process, which also includes standard procedures for measuring, photographing, and examining the condition of objects. Marking an object with its accession number (or temporary number if the object will not become part of the permanent collection) is how the object is identified and linked to its documentation. In order to track museum collections, to differentiate between permanent, loan, and subsidiary collections, and to provide access to the documentation of objects in the collection, systematic numbering schemes are used and each unique number is marked or tagged on the objects and prominently noted on all documentation associated with the objects. There are many ways to mark objects with their numbers. Depending on the type of object and desired permanence of the mark, some of the preferred methods include: archival quality paper tags with pencil, barrier coat with ink or paint, adhered labels, labels sewn with cotton tape, Reemay, or Tyvek, pencil directly on object (recommended for paper and photographs mostly), and Bar codes/RFID technology.\n\nAnother way of controlling collections information to promote accessibility is utilizing standard formats of required data elements and preferred terminology when describing and documenting works of art, architecture, and cultural artifacts, as well as their images. There are numerous guides available for determining which descriptive information is necessary to an object file and how to format that information for ease of accessibility—Categories for the Description of Works of Art (CDWA), Cataloging Cultural Objects (CCO), etc. There are also a number of authority lists and thesauri available to documentation professionals, which can be very helpful in choosing preferred terminology in describing cultural objects. The Getty Research Institute has created comprehensive vocabularies, including The Art and Architecture Thesaurus (AAT), The Getty Thesaurus of Geographic Names (TGN), The Cultural Objects Name Authority (CONA), and The Union List of Artist Names (ULAN). Other valuable tools for professionals documenting cultural property are CAMEO and the American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works' Lexicon Project, which are collaborative efforts designed to define and standardize terms used in the description of objects and materials used to conserve objects.\n\nIn order to effectively manage all the documentation required to care for collections, organized systems are necessary. In the early days of museum registration simple paper ledgers were used to track objects, and documentation was stored in file cabinets. Since computers became more commonplace however, practices have evolved and very technologically advanced systems now exist to manage all aspects of collection management in one place.\n\nImplementation of a Collections Management System (CMS) is now customary in museums of all specialties and sizes. A CMS is a database that can track object locations, prepare exhibition lists, create forms (insurance, shipping, loan, etc.), and organize conservation, publication, exhibition, provenance and curatorial information in files on the computer. All the data and documentation that was previously stored in paper object files is now entered or scanned into the CMS. (Paper copies can still be kept for archival purposes.) A flexible and robust CMS is capable of safely and securely storing information about collections objects, while simultaneously enhancing the capacity to share and disseminate cultural information to vast audiences via the internet.\n\nAnother system that is fundamental to controlling and preserving collections documentation is a Digital Asset Management System (DAMS). A DAMS is digital archive that can hold resources (images, audio, and text) as well as the metadata used to describe them. These systems make organization, identification, and retrieval of images and other files more efficient. DAMS are also easily integrated with CMSs, so that as information on the CMS is cataloged and updated, it automatically synchronizes with the DAMS.\n\nCreating good, well-organized records is a successful start, but preserving that documentation for the benefit of future generations is also paramount. Some methods of initiating long-term preservation of both digital and paper files are delineated below.\nMany institutions maintain archives of their important documents. Documentation pertaining to the institution itself, as well as collections documentation is stored in the institutional archive or the library. Sometimes paper copies of collections files are stored offsite for extra safety and security (and for space considerations). An archive of collections information can have its own collecting policy and arrangement, unrelated to the way documents are organized in the current collections files. It is up to the Archivist to decide how to preserve and organize this collection of documents. Storage requirements for the various types of files in an archive (paper records, photographic material, electronic media, magnetic tape, etc.) are critical to the long-term preservation of the materials.\n\nInformation in museum documentation is often duplicated in multiple locations, in order to protect against loss of data. Backups are performed on a regular schedule and stored in separate systems or locations. Data can be duplicated and stored automatically on the system server or copied to external media, such as magnetic tape, optical disks, external hard drives, etc. \"For long-term backup, 'live storage' is the most reliable method. The data are continuously rewritten in multiple electronic or physical locations, ensuring that information is not degrading from the effects of time or the failure of one single piece of hardware.\"\n\nAnother strategy for ensuring the long-term stability of digital files is to periodically migrate data from one form of media to another—usually from an outdated medium to a more current format. This process applies to both file formats and storage media. Simply transferring data from one medium to another, such as from a CD to DVD, without changing the format of the file, is also a form of preservation called Refreshing. Documentation of any file conversions or media transfers is stored in the records as well for historical reference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66254", "title": "Drinking", "text": "Drinking\n\nDrinking is the act of ingesting water or other liquids into the body through the mouth. Water is required for many of life’s physiological processes. Both excessive and inadequate water intake are associated with health problems.\n\nWhen a liquid is poured into an open human mouth, the swallowing process is completed by peristalsis which delivers the liquid to the stomach; much of the activity is abetted by gravity. The liquid may be poured from the hands or drinkware may be used as vessels. Drinking can also be performed by acts of inhalation, typically when imbibing hot liquids or drinking from a spoon. Infants employ a method of suction wherein the lips are pressed tight around a source, as in breastfeeding: a combination of breath and tongue movement creates a vacuum which draws in liquid. \n\nAmphibians and aquatic animals which live in freshwater do not need to drink: they absorb water steadily through the skin by osmosis. Saltwater fish, however, drink through the mouth as they swim, and purge the excess salt through the gills.\n\nBy necessity, terrestrial animals in captivity become accustomed to drinking water, but most free-roaming animals stay hydrated through the fluids and moisture in fresh food. When conditions impel them to drink from bodies of water, the methods and motions differ greatly among species. Many desert animals do not drink even if water becomes available, but rely on eating succulent plants.\n\nCats, canines, and ruminants all lower the neck and lap in water with their powerful tongues. Cats and canines lap up water with the tongue in a spoon-like shape. Ruminants and most other herbivores partially submerge the tip of the mouth in order to draw in water by means of a plunging action with the tongue held straight. Cats drink at a significantly slower pace than ruminants, who face greater natural predation hazards. Uniquely, elephants draw water into their trunks and squirt it into their mouths.\n\nMost birds scoop or draw water into the buccal areas of their bills, raising and tilting their heads back to drink. An exception is the common pigeon which can suck in water directly by inhalation.\n\nLike nearly all other life forms, humans require water for tissue hydration. Lack of hydration causes thirst, a desire to drink which is regulated by the hypothalamus in response to subtle changes in the body's electrolyte levels and blood volume. A decline in total body water is called dehydration and will eventually lead to death by hypernatremia. Methods used in the management of dehydration include assisted drinking or oral rehydration therapy.\n\nAn overconsumption of water can lead to water intoxication, which can dangerously dilute the concentration of salts in the body. Overhydration sometimes occurs among athletes and outdoor laborers, but it can also be a sign of disease or damage to the hypothalamus. A persistent desire to drink inordinate quantities of water is a psychological condition termed polydipsia. It is often accompanied by polyuria and may itself be a symptom of Diabetes mellitus or Diabetes insipidus.\n\nA daily intake of water is required for the normal physiological functioning of the human body. The USDA recommends a daily intake of \"total water\": not necessarily by drinking but by consumption of water contained in other beverages and foods. The recommended intake is 3.7 liters (appx. 1 gallon) per day for an adult male, and 2.7 liters (appx. 0.75 gallon) for an adult female. Other sources, however, claim that a high intake of fresh drinking water, separate and distinct from other sources of moisture, is necessary for good health – eight servings per day of eight fluid ounces (1.8 liters, or 0.5 gallon) is the amount recommended by many nutritionists, although there is no scientific evidence supporting this recommendation.\n\nThe term “drinking” is often used metonymically for the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Most cultures throughout history have incorporated some number of the wide variety of \"strong drinks\" into their meals, celebrations, ceremonies, toasts and other occasions. Evidence of fermented drinks in human culture goes back as early as the Neolithic Period, and the first pictorial evidence can be found in Egypt around 4,000 BC. \n\nAlcohol consumption has developed into a variety of well-established drinking cultures around the world. Despite its popularity, alcohol consumption poses significant health risks. Alcohol abuse and the addiction of alcoholism are common maladies in developed countries worldwide. A high rate of consumption can also lead to cirrhosis, gastritis, gout, pancreatitis, hypertension, various forms of cancer, and numerous other illnesses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31006463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31006463", "title": "Dust and Shadow", "text": "Dust and Shadow\n\nDust and Shadow: An Account of the Ripper Killings by Dr. John H. Watson is a Sherlock Holmes pastiche novel by Lyndsay Faye which pits Sherlock Holmes against Jack the Ripper.\n\nThe book is Faye's first novel and it has the blessing of Conan Doyle's heirs.\n\nThe book takes its name from Horace's epigram, \"We are but dust and shadow\" (\"Pulvis et umbra sumus\"), which Holmes quotes in the novel.\n\"In a foreword, writing in 1939, the elderly Dr. Watson decides to leave his manuscript account of the Ripper killings to his estate for publication after his death. The account was confidential until then, but Watson feels it important that the true facts be known, since the deceased Sherlock Holmes, for once in his life, was wrong when he predicted that \"the world has already forgotten [the Ripper].\"\"\n\nHolmes and Watson are called to the countryside by Inspector Gregson to look into the disappearance of a valuable ring from the home of a Baron's family. The \"solution\" is unsatisfactory: Holmes deduces that the Baron himself has stolen the ring, having already pawned several items of value to pay for his gambling debts, and even being forced to rob the grave of his prematurely deceased wife. When confronted, the Baron surrenders the ring, then kills himself in shame. Holmes claims to Gregson that the case is unsolvable, while planning to return the ring anonymously in the mail, but is nonplussed when one of Gregson's young constables points out clues that Holmes himself took pains to conceal from Gregson. Returning to Baker Street, Holmes receives an anonymous threatening note.\n\nA few months later, Watson is horrified by the news of Mary Ann Nichols's murder and mutilation, but Holmes dismisses it as an isolated incident. However, when Annie Chapman is murdered in a similar manner, and Inspector Lestrade asks for help, Holmes is forced to notice the similarities between the two killings, and predicts that more will follow if the killer is not stopped. Investigating the murder scenes in Whitechapel, Holmes and Watson meet Mary Ann Monk, a casual friend of Mary Nichols, who agrees to spy on their behalf. After a few nights, she excitedly claims to have identified the killer, from tavern gossip, as a soldier named Johnny Blackstone, on leave from his regiment.\n\nIn spite of their efforts, Holmes, Watson, and the police, are unable to prevent the murders of Elizabeth Stride and Catherine Eddowes. Holmes interrupts the killer in the process of murdering Stride, and suffers a near-fatal stab wound without being able to catch the man. Worse, newspaper stories suggest that Holmes himself is the killer, based on his proximity to each of the murder scenes. Holmes also receives another anonymous note from the killer, identifying himself as \"Jack the Ripper.\"\n\nPatient investigation leads Holmes to an elementary solution that horrifies Watson, Monk, and Lestrade: \"Johnny Blackstone\" is a false persona created to throw him off the trail, and the Ripper is actually a policeman, Constable Edward Bennett, able to escape the scenes of his crimes by re-donning his uniform, and able to anonymously supply the newspapers with credible tips about Holmes's whereabouts and activities that make him look guilty. The Ripper decided that it was vitally important to neutralize Holmes as a threat to him, but by going to such lengths to do so, he has inadvertently revealed his own identity.\n\nDespite this breakthrough, Holmes and Watson's stakeout only leads them to the site of Mary Jane Kelly's murder, with no clues as to Bennett's current whereabouts. They return home demoralized, but receive a lucky break when Bennett's newspaper contact arrives on their doorstep in a panic, admitting that he followed Bennett to his current hideout, seeing gruesome relics that confirmed he is the Ripper.\n\nHolmes and Watson lie in wait at the hideout, actually the run-down home of Bennett's mother, who is blind and semi-deranged (from her ramblings, Holmes and Watson guess that Edward's madness resulted from his abusive father, and that Edward turned on his father and killed him when Edward was still a child). Realizing Bennett has left a kerosene fire burning in the basement, Holmes and Watson hustle Mrs. Bennett out of the house just before it explodes into flames. Realizing from Mrs. Bennett that Edward's latest victim is being held upstairs, Holmes re-enters the home and rescues Mrs. Monk, drugged into a stupor but still alive. Injured and disoriented, they are confronted by Bennett, who charges at them. Watson draws his revolver and shoots Bennett dead, before passing out.\n\nThe Home Secretary and Sherlock's brother Mycroft, fearing a total breakdown of public order if the truth becomes known, order Lestrade to cover up the Ripper's identity, and keep the official investigation open, indefinitely. However, Lestrade privately confirms to the rest of Scotland Yard that the case is solved. Knowing that Holmes's role in stopping the killings can never be publicly acknowledged, Lestrade and the detective force privately gift him with a commemorative cigarette case, to replace the one the Ripper took as a trophy. Holmes is warmed by this heartfelt praise, from law enforcement professionals, more than he ever could be by any official accolades.\n\nReviews of \"Dust and Shadow: An Account of the Ripper Killings by Dr. John H Watson\" have been largely positive.\n\nTim Rutton, writing for the \"Los Angeles Times\", stated \"she gets the critical component – Watson's voice – right.\"\n\nCaleb Carr, who himself penned a Sherlock Holmes pastiche entitled \"The Italian Secretary\", remarked \"Where others have failed, Lyndsay Faye's extremely impressive debut novel succeeds, on every level, providing thrilling entertainment without blatant exploitation.\"\n\nThe Chicago Center for Literature and Photography gave the novel an 8.9 out of 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "18103379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103379", "title": "Education in Kiribati", "text": "Education in Kiribati\n\nEducation in Kiribati is free and compulsory from age 6 to 14, which includes primary school through grade six, and Junior Secondary School for three additional grade levels. In 1998, the gross primary enrollment rate was 84.4 percent, and net primary enrollment rate was 70.7 percent. School quality and access to education are better in urban areas; schools in small communities on isolated islands are expensive to maintain. Mission schools are slowly being absorbed into the government primary school system.\n\nThere are primary schools on most of the inhabited islands. Secondary schools are located on some of the islands with students travelling to live at their school. For example, Abaiang, which is in the northern Gilbert Islands, has three secondary schools, in 2011 there were 212 students at the Ministry of Education school, Ueen Abaiang, which is located between the villages of Koinawa and Aonobuaka. A further 135 students are enrolled at St Joseph’s College in Tabwiroa and 23 students at Steven Whitmee High School in Morikao, making 370 secondary school students in total. The two high schools at Morikao and Tabuiroa accommodate students from all over Kiribati who have passed the entrance examinations to get into the schools.\n\nSt. Joseph's College was founded in 1939. Its alumni include both current President Anote Tong, and previous incumbent Teburoro Tito.\n\nThere are primary schools and secondary schools operated by the Christian denominations including the Roman Catholic Church (such as St. Joseph's College) and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, (such as Moroni High School in South Tarawa, of which Waitea Abiuta has been the headmaster).\n\nThe Kiribati Teacher College and King George V and Elaine Bernachi School, the Government High School, are in Bikenibeu in South Tarawa.\n\nHigher education is expanding; students may seek technical, teacher or marine training, or study in other countries. To date, most choosing to do the latter have gone to Fiji to attend University of the South Pacific, and those wishing to complete medical training have been sent to Cuba.\n\nThe University of the South Pacific has a campus in Kiribati for distant/flexible learning, but also to provide preparatory studies towards obtaining certificates, diplomas and degrees at other campus sites.\n\nKiribati Ministry of Education is the education ministry. Kiribati has 94 elementary schools, 24 junior high schools, and 16 senior high schools. The government high schools are King George V and Elaine Bernacchi School, Tabiteuea North Senior Secondary School, and Melaengi Tabai Secondary School; Tabiteuea North, in Eita, is also known as Teabike College. Previously KGV/EBS was the sole government high school.\n\n13 high schools are operated by Christian churches. They are:\n"}
{"id": "46667445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46667445", "title": "Eleko Beach", "text": "Eleko Beach\n\nEleko Beach opened in 1989 as a serene and private beach in the Lekki Peninsula, about 30 miles east of the Lagos Island. Away from the hustles and bustles of the metropolis, it usually has an atmosphere of peace and tranquility.\n"}
{"id": "56831689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56831689", "title": "Finn hall", "text": "Finn hall\n\nFinn halls or Finnish halls were cultural centers of Finnish diaspora communities and labor organizations in the United States and Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8683255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8683255", "title": "Haplogroup I-M438", "text": "Haplogroup I-M438\n\nHaplogroup I-M438, also known as I2 (and until 2007 as I1b), is a human DNA Y-chromosome haplogroup, a subclade of Haplogroup I-M170. Haplogroup I-M438 originated some time around 26,000–31,000 BCE and has two primary subclades: I-L460, I-L596 and I-L147.\n\nThe haplogroup reaches its maximum frequency in the Dinaric Alps in Eastern Europe (especially in the Balkans).\nExamples of basal I-M438* have been found in males from Crete and Sicily.\n\nBasal I2* (I-M438*) has been found in ancient remains from Frankthi cave, in the eastern Peloponnese region of Greece. Along with its modern presence in Crete and Sicily, this may suggest that the haplogroup originated in the Eastern Mediterranean \n\nHaplogroup I2a may be the haplogroup of the first anatomically modern humans to inhabit Europe, Cro-Magnon. A 2015 study found haplogroup I2a in 13,000 year old remains from the Azilian culture (at modern Bichon, Switzerland).\n\nHaplogroup I2a was the most frequent Y-DNA among western European mesolithic hunter gatherers (WHG) belonging to Villabruna Cluster. A 2015 study found haplogroup I2a in 13,500 year old remains from the Azilian culture (at modern Bichon, Switzerland). Mass migrations of Middle Eastern farmers during Neolithic and Indo-Europeans during Bronze Age greatly decreased frequncy of I2 in Europe.\n\nSubclades of I2a1 (I-P37.2), namely I-M423 and I-M26 have been found in remains of western European hunter gatherers dating from 10,000 to 8,000 years before present respectively.\n\nThe I-P37.2+, also known as I2a1 (or I-L68, is the SNP that defines \"I2a1\". The subclade divergence for I-P37.2 occurred 10.7±4.8 kya. The age of YSTR variation for the P37.2 subclade is 8.0±4.0 kya. It is the predominant Y-DNA lineage in Eastern Europe. The I2a is further made up by sub-groups I-M26, I-M423, I-L1286, I-L880.\n\nHaplogroup I-M26 (or M26) has previously and is still sometimes called \"Eu-8\", \"I1b2\" (YCC), \"I1b1a\", \"I2a1\" or \"I2a2\".\n\nHaplogroup I-L158 (L158, L159.1/S169.1, M26) accounts for approximately 40% of all patrilines among the Sardinians. It is also found at low to moderate frequency among populations of the Pyrenees (9.5% in Bortzerriak, Navarra; 9.7% in Chazetania, Aragon; 8% in Val d'Aran, Catalunya; 2.9% in Alt Urgell, Catalunya; and 8.1% in Baixa Cerdanya, Catalunya) and Iberia, and it has been found in 1.6% of a sample of Albanians living in the Republic of Macedonia and 1.2% (3/257) of a sample of Czechs. The age of YSTR variation for the M26 subclade has been calculated at 8.0±4.0 kya.\n\nI-L178 is very rare, but has been found in two persons from Germany and one from Poland. The age of YSTR variation for the M423 subclade is 8.8±3.6 kya.\n\nI-L621 is typical of the South Slavic populations of south-eastern Europe, being highest in Bosnia-Herzegovina (>50%) in Bosniaks and Croats. There is also a high concentration of I-L621 in north-east Romania and Moldova. Several groups have determined the common occurrence of this subclade in the South Slavic-speaking populations to be the result of \"pre-Slavic\" paleolithic settlement in the region. Peričić \"et al.\" for instance place its expansion to have occurred \"not earlier than the YD to Holocene transition and not later than the early Neolithic\". The Slavic population can be divided into two genetically distinct groups: one encompassing all West Slavic (Poles, Czechs, Slovaks, etc.) and the non-Slavic Hungarians, East Slavic (Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, etc.) and a few South Slavic populations (north-western Croats and Slovenes), characterized by Haplogroup R1a, and one encompassing all remaining Southern Slavs (Serbs, Bosniaks, southern Croats, Montenegrins, Macedonians and Bulgarians) but also the non-Slavic Romanians, characterized by Haplogroup I2a1b2 (I-L621). According to Rebała \"et al.\", this phenomenon is explained by \"contribution to the Y chromosomes of peoples who settled in the Balkan region before the Slavic expansion to the genetic heritage of Southern Slavs\".\nIt is attributed to the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture in what is now Ukraine, Romania and Moldova.\nL69/S163 was removed from I in 2011 and IJK in 2012.\n\nHaplogroup I2a2a (ISOGG 2014). The age of YSTR variation for the I-M223 subclade is 13.2±2.7 kya and 12.3±3.1 kya. I-M223 has a peak in Germany and another in eastern Sweden, but also appears in Romania/Moldova, Russia, Greece, Italy and around the Black Sea. Haplogroup I2a2a has been found in over 4% of the population only in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, Scotland, and England (excluding Cornwall) – also the southern tips of Sweden and Norway in Northwest Europe; the provinces of Normandy, Maine, Anjou, and Perche in northwestern France; the province of Provence in southeastern France; the regions of Tuscany, Umbria, and Latium in Italy; Moldavia and the area around Russia's Ryazan Oblast and Mordovia in Eastern Europe. Of historical note, both haplogroups I-M253 and I-M223 appear at a low frequency in the historical regions of Bithynia and Galatia in Turkey. Haplogroup I2a2a also occurs among approximately 1% of Sardinians. The subclade divergence for M223 occurred 14.6±3.8 kya (Rootsi 2004).\n\nHaplogroup I-M223 can be further subdivided in several subclades designated in the Y2012 ISOGG tree as follows:\n\nHaplogroup I2a2a1a1 (ISOGG 2014). I-M284 has been found almost exclusively among the population of Great Britain, suggesting that the clade may have arisen in that island. I-M284 is comparatively rare in Ireland except in the north-east. In regard to north-east Ireland, the presence of this subclade \"provides some tentative evidence of ancient flow with eastern areas that could support the idea that the La Tene culture was accompanied by some migration.\" Where it is found in those of Irish descent with Gaelic surnames, this suggests an ancestor who arrived in Ireland from Celtic Britain. Men with several Gaelic surnames such as McGuinness and McCartan bear this subclade, family groups that have a historically recorded 6th-century common ancestor, thus it is not the result of known recent gene flow between Britain and Ireland. While subclades of I-M284 are atypical of Ireland they are relatively common in continental Europe. The observed mutational divergence between men with this subclade suggests its foundation very approximately at 300 BC, thus dates and geography are circumstantially but not securely associated with Iron Age continental Europe.\n\nContinentals. Mother Haplogroup for group I-Z161 (Continental 1 and 2) and I-L701 group (Continental 3). Around 10.000 years old.\n\nHaplogroup I2a2a1b2 (ISOGG 2014). Z161+ defines the I2 Continental clade (except Continental 3). Its age is estimated around 7,000 years old. It is mainly found in North Europe, especially in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, and England. In Northwest Sicily it can also be found; this is believed to be due to remnants of a Norman settlement.\n\nCalled Continental 3. Continental 3 has a wide distribution. Found in Central Europe from Germany, Austria to Poland, Romania and Ukraine, but also in lower frequencies in Greece, Italy, France, Spain, England, Ireland, and Armenia. It may have been disseminated in part by the Goths. It is nearly absent from Scandinavia and Scotland.\n\n•I2 M438/P215/PF3853/S31 (16638804 A->G)\n• •I2a L460/PF3647/S238 (7879415 A->C)\n• • •I2a1 PF37.2/PF4004 (14491684 T->C)\n• • • •I2a1a CTS595 (6874115 C->T)\n• • • • •I2a1a1 M26/PF4056 (21865821 G->A)\n• • • • • •I2a1a1a CTS8968/PF4036 (18584762 T->C)\n• • • • • • •I2a1a1a1 L672/S327 (22228628 T->A)\n• • • • • • • •I2a1a1a1a L160/PF4013/S184\n• • • • • • •I2a1a1a2 CTS6027 (16620529 C->G) w. Europeans\n• • • • • • •I2a1a1a3 Z27395 (16681589 A->G)\n• • • • • • • •I2a1a1a3a Z27410 (18891640 T->G)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1a1a3a1 Z27430 (15383072 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a1a1a3a1a Z27446 (14420039 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a1a1a3a1a1 Z27447 (17445510 A->G)\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a1a1a3a1a1a Z27452 (7346620 C->T) Sardinians\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a1a1a3a1a1b Z27453 (22045753 C->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a1a1a3a1a1b1 Z27456 (13885862 T->C) Sardinians\n• • • • • •I2a1a1b Z27354 (7132292 T->C) \n• • • • • • •I2a1a1b1 Z27400 (2833818 C->T) Sardinians\n• • • • •I2a1a2 S21825 (19126655 G->A)\n• • • • • •I2a1a2a L1286 (21778662 G->A)\n• • • • • • •I2a1a2a1 L1287 (21970862 G->T)\n• • • • • • • •I2a1a2a1a L233/S183 (14487362 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1a2a1a1 A417 (8846964 T->C) Brits\n• • • • • • •I2a1a2a2 L880 (3436270 C->T) central Europeans\n• • • • • •I2a1a2b L1294 (2887401 T->C) French\n• • • • •I2a1a3 S2699 (14434372 C->T)\n• • • •I2a1b M423 (19096091 G->A)\n• • • • •I2a1b1 L161.1/S185.1 (22513718 C->T)\n• • • • • •I2a1b1a L1498/Y4008 (18668472 C->T)\n• • • • • • •I2a1b1a1 FGC7218/Y5280 (21354226 G->A) Irish\n• • • • • • •I2a1b1a2 FGC14448/Y5450 (7158983 A->G) Irish\n• • • • • • •I2a1b1a3 FGC7108/S2640 (14107847 G->A)\n• • • • • • • •I2a1b1a3a FGC7197/S7703 (17494645 G->C)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1b1a3a1 S7714 (21345894 T->A)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a1b1a3a1a S8889 (4310132 A->G)\n• • • • • • • •I2a1b1a3b S2742 (19440521 A->G)\n• • • • • • • •I2a1b1a3c FGC7173/Y3729 (8472670 A->T)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1b1a3c1 FGC7156/Y4665 (2685333 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a1b1a3c1a FGC7218/Y5280 (21354226 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1b1a3c2 FGC14453/Y5456 (16637771 A->G)\n• • • • • • •I2a1b1a4 A1150 (15543414 A->T)\n• • • • • •I2a1b1b PF4135 (18981938 G->A) Brits\n• • • • • •I2a1b1c CTS8849.2 (18236845 A->G)\n• • • • • •I2a1b1d PF6316.2 (18181850 T->G)\n• • • • •I2a1b2 L621/S392 (18760081 G->A)\n• • • • • •I2a1b2a CTS4002 (15328797 C->A)\n• • • • • • •I2a1b2a1 CTS10228 (9334357 A->C)\n• • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1a S17250/YP204 (15531354 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1a1 Z16971 (6676628 G->C) Slovenians, Germans, Ukrainians\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1a2 Y3548 (14856842 A->G) Sardinians\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1a2a Y4882 (21135222 G->A) Poles\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1a3 A356/Z16983 (17558968 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1a3a Y6651 (23792119 A->G) Czechs\n• • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1b Y4460 (9028830 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1b1 Y3118 (23548545 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1b1a CTS5579/S5054 (16378157 G->T) Finns\n• • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1b V19.2 (2189,200 T->C) \n• • • • • • • •I2a1b2a1c P61.2 (14482194 G->A) \n• • •I2a2 M436/P214/PF3856/S33 (18747493 G->C)\n• • • •I2a2a M223 (21717307 G->A)\n• • • • •I2a2a1 CTS616 (6906332 C->G)\n• • • • • •I2a2a1a Y3721 (7982615 C->T)\n• • • • • • •I2a2a1a1 M284 (22750461..22750464 ACAA->del)\n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a L1195 (18865320 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a1 L126/S165 (14901633 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a1a FGC20048/S7753/Y4171 (17603051 G->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a1a1 FGC20065/Y4751 (18635722 A->G) \n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a1a1a Y4750 (23059262 C->G) \n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a1a1a1 FGC20062/Y4753 (16910733 G->T) Irish, Scots\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a1a1a2 Y8599 Irish\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a1b Y7190 (7987909 C->T) Scots\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a1c F3878.2 (8752246 G->A) \n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a2 L1193 (9448484 C->A)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a2a CTS4922 (15903939 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a2a1 FGC14237/Y5996 (8292320 G->T) Irish\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a1a2b CTS3792/S2380 (15183633 C->T)\n• • • • • • •I2a2a1a2 Z2057 (4770006 T->C) \n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a L1229 (14937828 C->A) \n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1 Y3681 (22519059 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a Z2058 (5317533 T->C) \n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1 Z2054 (2980725 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1a BY524/Y9443 (6371561 A->G)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1a1 L812/S391 (14850035 G->A) \n• • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1a1a Y5308 (16820196 G->A) \n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1a2 Y10648 (8267867 C->G) \n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1b Y7244 (8271590 C->T) Germans\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1b1 P53.3 (14491649 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1b2 Y7243 (2911078 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1c FGC15106/Y4334 (7845669 G->T) \n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1c1 FGC15128/Y4714 (15945966 G->C) Irish\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1c2 Y4760 (15025945 A->T) Brits, Germans\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a1a1d BY138 (2809424 A->T) Mexicans, English\n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a2 S18331 (16449714 C->T) Brits\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2a2a L1230 (3436442 G->A) Brits\n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1a2b Y7240 (2688254 T->G) English\n• • • • • •I2a2a1b CTS10057 (19232160 C->T)\n• • • • • • •I2a2a1b1 L702 (7629205 C->T)\n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a P78 (6740387 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a1 S25733 (23595728 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a1a A427 (23281929 G->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a1a1 S23612 (21826246 C->T) Brits, Italians, Germans\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a1a1a Y5360 (23185624 G->T) \n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a1a1b S10702 (7822881 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a1a2 Y5369 (23185624 G->T) Brits\n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a2 Y7219 (8447173 C->A)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a2a Y7214 (4901002 C->A) Dutch\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1a2b Y8945 (4567154 G->A) \n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1b L699 (2663920 A->G)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1b1 L704 (17595966 C->A)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1b1a S12195 (9105096 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1b1a1 Y6973 (8430276 A->G)\n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1b2 Z26416 (18851267 G->A) Sardinians\n• • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1b3 PF6901 (17558585 C->G) Sardinians\n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1b1c PF6896 (8904322 C->T) Brits, French\n• • • • • • •I2a2a1b2 Z161 (2696497 C->G)\n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a L801/S390 (21763755 A->C)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1 CTS1977 (14140273 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1a Y5282 (7982615 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1a1 S8522 (3162610 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1a1a P95 (14869706 G->T) Poles, n.w. Europeans\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1a2 CTS1858 (14098206 G->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1a2a CTS10148 (19291083 A->T) African Americans\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b Y7152 (5852771 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1c BY526 or Y8935\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a2 CTS6433 (16889964 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a2a S2364 (23052606 A->G)\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a2a1 FGC3618/S2361 (17355245 A->G)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a2a1a Z78 (9154908 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a2a1a1 CTS8584\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a2a1a1a Z185 (22929384 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1 Z180 (22065434 A->G)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1a L1198 (18405788 C->T))\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1a1 Z190 (17473966 G->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1a1a S434/Z79 (17147721 G->A) English\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1a1a1 Y5729 (14394460 C->T) English\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1a1a2 Y7682 (not yet reported)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1a1b Y7280 (17305030 T->G) \n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1a2 FGC3617/S2368/Z166 (14010863 G->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1a3 P195.2 (22665262 A->G) Brits\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1b Y5748 (14106278 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1b1 Y7272 (19264274 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a1a1c Y7273 (16449864 A>G)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1a2 Y9161 (9154908 T->C) \n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1b Y4925/ZS20 (23977120 A->C) \n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1b1 CTS661/L1272 (6931960 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1b1a Y5717 (6931960 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1b2 FGC17399/Y4926 (23549293 G->A) \n• • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1b2a S8104 (7432604 A->G) \n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1c Y4955 (15362162 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1c1 Y5695 (14574229 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1c1a Y7263 (7900806 C->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1c1a1 Y7265 (9147689 T->C)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1c1b FGC20004/Y5692 (18993826 A->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b1c2 Y10659 (4616653 A->G)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b2 L1425 (14491835 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b2a CTS5332.2/PF7472.2 (16212441 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b2b Y4769 (18201094 A->G) Germans\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b3 Y7426 (18830768 A->G) English\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b4 S243/Z63 (14401486 C->T)\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b5 M3268.2/PF3292.2 (8519704 G->A) Germans\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b6 DF5.2/S191.2 (18393814 A->G) Brits\n• • • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a1b7 F3406.2 (23119516 G->A)\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a2 L1290 (14623983 T->C) n. Europeans\n• • • • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2a3 Y7202 (2913976 G->A) Germans\n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2b L623 (16202490 A->T)\n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2c CTS11871/S3673 (23326304 C->T) Brits, Germans \n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1b2d Y5188 (7838639 G->A) Maltese\n• • • • • • •I2a2a1b3 S12606 (9879942 T->G)\n• • • • • • • •I2a2a1b3a CTS12640/S4904/ZS21 (28652639 C->T)\n• • • • •I2a2a2 S9403/SK1254 (6742730 T->C) \n• • • • • •I2a2a2a L1228 (15446045 C->G) w. Europeans\n• • • • • •I2a2a2b Y6099 (7527993 G->A) \n• • • •I2a2b L38/S154 (15668070 A->G)\n• • • • •I2a2b1 L533/S295 (2887198 G->C) n.w. Europeans\n• • • • •I2a2b2 S2606 (22527402 C->A)\n• • • • • •I2a2b2a S2523 (14951410 C->T)\n• • • • • • •I2a2b2a1 S24121 (22201497 C->A)\n• • • • • • • •I2a2b2a1a S11558 (8491250 G->A)\n• • • • • • • •I2a2b2a1b F780.2 (6384078 G->A) \n• • • • •I2a2b3 M8990/S3846 (7534645 A->C)\n• • • • • •I2a2b3a S2488 (12733783 T->A) English \n• • • • • •I2a2b3b S4556 (14124389 A->G)\n• • • • •I2a2b4 P15.2/PF3112.2 (3244026 C->T) \n• •I2b L415/S435 (2888663 C->T) or L417/S332 (8426321 T->C) Germans, Italians\n• •I2c L596/PF6907/S292 (14197631 G->A) or L597/S333 (18887888 T->A)\n• • •I2c1 PF3892 (8487200 T->C)\n• • • •I2c1a L1251 (2888598 C->T) Germans\n• • • •I2c1b CTS4092 (15391894 G->A)\n• • • • •I2c1b1 CTS7767.1 (17651573 C->A)\n• • • • • •I2c1b1a PF6328 (21797244 C->A)\n• • • • • • •I2c1b1a1 F2044 (15944600 T->A) Brits \n• • • •I2c1c S6685 (14185048 G->C) \n• • • • •I2c1c1 S6648 (14459289 T->A) \n• • • • • •I2c1c1a FGC18548 (7380574 A->G) Sardinians\n• • • • • •I2c1c1b S6716 (16173282 G->C) \n• • • • • • •I2c1c1b1 S6622 (14264992 A->G) \n• • • • • • • •I2c1c1b1a S6595 (21430083 G->A) \n• • • • • • • • •I2c1c1b1a1 S6656 (17410728 G->C) \n• • • • • •I2c1c1c S9234 (6512608 A->G) \n• • •I2c2 PF3827 (22444389 T->A)\n• • •I2c3 S6800 (16180130 G->A)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43086661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43086661", "title": "Head of Nefertem", "text": "Head of Nefertem\n\nThe Head of Nefertem (also known as the Head from the Lotus Bloom or Tutankhamun as the Sun God) was found in the tomb of Tutankhamun (KV62) in the Valley of the Kings in West Thebes. It depicts the King (Pharaoh) as a child and dates from the 18th dynasty (New Kingdom). The object received the find number of 8 and today is displayed with the inventory number JE 60723 in the Egyptian Museum in Cairo.\n\nThe discovery of the Head of Nefertem is controversial, since Howard Carter did not document the piece in his excavation journal. The Head was found in 1924 by Pierre Lacau and Rex Engelbach in KV4 (the tomb of Ramses XI), which was used as a storehouse for the excavation efforts, among the bottles in a box of red wine. At this time, Carter was not in Egypt on account of the strike and closure of Tutankhamun's tomb and the withdrawal or cancellation of the excavation license of Lord Carnarvon's widow Lady Almina. Carter later stated that he had found the head among the rubble in the entry corridor of KV62. In his first season of excavations, the head was not mentioned; at the time Carter only noted partially broken and full-standing alabaster vessels and vases of painted clay in the entrance-way. There is not even photographic documentation of the head in the excavation journal as there is for other pieces found in the tomb. These facts not only led to further disputes in the study of Egyptian antiquities, but also aroused the suspicion in some quarters to this day that Carter had attempted to steal the head.\n\nThe partially damaged head of Nefertem is carved out of wood and is high. The stucco coating is painted red, though large sections have been damaged - Carter attributed this to its seizure by Egyptian authorities in 1921. The eyebrows, the typically Egyptian kohl eye liner, and the pupils of the bust were painted in dark blue. The head of the king is completely shaved, but shaven stubble in the form of black paint is visible. The head has Tutankhamun's facial features and depicts him as a child. As on his golden deathmask, Tutankhamun's ears are pierced.\n\nOf all the artefacts found to date, this head is the only depiction of him as a child.\n\nThe sculpture depicts the Pharaoh in the guise of Nefertem, the god of the dawning sun. The child-god Nefertem springs from a blue lotus, which was associated with the revival of the Sun in the morning because its buds close at night and reopen at dawn. The blue base of the bust symbolises the primordial waters from which the sun rose at the beginning of creation. The Pharaoh was closely associated with the Sun, but the depiction of him in the guise of this particular solar deity was meant to magically guarantee that the Pharaoh would be reborn once more, just as the Sun is reborn at dawn.\n\nLike the depictions of the daughters of Akhenaten and Nefertiti found at Tell el-Amarna, the head of Nefertem has the elongated head and neck wrinkles typical of Amarna art. This suggests that the creation of the head occurred during the Amarna period. The depiction of the king as a child is among the most beautiful of all Egyptian art from the end of the 18th dynasty. The head of Nefertem has been exhibited in travelling exhibitions of selected original finds from the tomb of Tutankhamun, including, among others, the Treasures of Tutankhamun (1972–1981).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15467255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15467255", "title": "Health 2.0", "text": "Health 2.0\n\n\"Health 2.0\" is a term introduced in the mid-2000s, as the subset of health care technologies mirroring the wider Web 2.0 movement. It has been defined variously as including social media, user-generated content, and cloud-based and mobile technologies. Some Health 2.0 proponents see these technologies as empowering patients to have greater control over their own health care and diminishing medical paternalism. Critics of the technologies have expressed concerns about possible misinformation and violations of patient privacy,\n\nHealth 2.0 built on the possibilities for changing health care, which started with the introduction of eHealth in the mid-1990s following the emergence of the World Wide Web. In the mid-2000s, following the widespread adoption both of the Internet and of easy to use tools for communication, social networking, and self-publishing, there was spate of media attention to and increasing interest from patients, clinicians, and medical librarians in using these tools for health care and medical purposes.\n\nEarly examples of Health 2.0 were the use of a specific set of Web tools (blogs, email list-servs, online communities, podcasts, search, tagging, Twitter, videos, wikis, and more) by actors in health care including doctors, patients, and scientists, using principles of open source and user-generated content, and the power of networks and social networks in order to personalize health care, to collaborate, and to promote health education. Possible explanations why health care has generated its own \"2.0\" term are the availability and proliferation of Health 2.0 applications across health care in general, and the potential for improving public health in particular.\n\nWhile the \"2.0\" moniker was originally associated with concepts like collaboration, openness, participation, and social networking, in recent years the term \"Health 2.0\" has evolved to mean the role of Saas and cloud-based technologies, and their associated applications on multiple devices. Health 2.0 describes the integration of these into much of general clinical and administrative workflow in health care. As of 2014, approximately 3,000 companies were offering products and services matching this definition, with venture capital funding in the sector exceeding $2.3 billion in 2013.\n\nThe \"traditional\" definition of \"Health 2.0\" focused on technology as an enabler for care collaboration: \"The use of social software t-weight tools to promote collaboration between patients, their caregivers, medical professionals, and other stakeholders in health.\"\n\nIn 2011, Indu Subaiya redefined Health 2.0 as the use in health care of new cloud, Saas, mobile, and device technologies that are:\n\n\nThis wider definition allows recognition of what is or what isn't a Health 2.0 technology. Typically, enterprise-based, customized client-server systems are not, while more open, cloud based systems fit the definition. However, this line was blurring by 2011-2 as more enterprise vendors started to introduce cloud-based systems and native applications for new devices like smartphones and tablets.\n\nIn addition, Health 2.0 has several competing terms, each with its own followers—if not exact definitions—including Connected Health, Digital Health, Medicine 2.0, and mHealth. All of these support a goal of wider change to the health care system, using technology-enabled system reform—usually changing the relationship between patient and professional.:\n\nIn the late 2000s, several commentators used Health 2.0 as a moniker for a wider concept of system reform, seeking a participatory process between patient and clinician: \"New concept of health care wherein all the constituents (patients, physicians, providers, and payers) focus on health care value (outcomes/price) and use competition at the medical condition level over the full cycle of care as the catalyst for improving the safety, efficiency, and quality of health care\".\n\nHealth 2.0 defines the combination of health data and health information with (patient) experience, through the use of ICT, enabling the citizen to become an active and responsible partner in his/her own health and care pathway.\n\nHealth 2.0 is participatory healthcare. Enabled by information, software, and communities that we collect or create, we the patients can be effective partners in our own healthcare, and we the people can participate in reshaping the health system itself.\n\nDefinitions of Medicine 2.0 appear to be very similar but typically include more scientific and research aspects—Medicine 2.0: \"Medicine 2.0 applications, services and tools are Web-based services for health care consumers, caregivers, patients, health professionals, and biomedical researchers, that use Web 2.0 technologies as well as semantic web and virtual reality tools, to enable and facilitate specifically social networking, participation, apomediation, collaboration, and openness within and between these user groups.\nPublished in JMIR Tom Van de Belt, Lucien Engelen \"et al.\" systematic review found 46 (!) unique definitions of health 2.0\n\nHealth 2.0 refers to the use of a diverse set of technologies including Connected Health, electronic medical records, mHealth, telemedicine, and the use of the Internet by patients themselves such as through blogs, Internet forums, online communities, patient to physician communication systems, and other more advanced systems. A key concept is that patients themselves should have greater insight and control into information generated about them. Additionally Health 2.0 relies on the use of modern cloud and mobile-based technologies.\n\nMuch of the potential for change from Health 2.0 is facilitated by combining technology driven trends such as Personal Health Records with social networking —\"[which] may lead to a powerful new generation of health applications, where people share parts of their electronic health records with other consumers and 'crowdsource' the collective wisdom of other patients and professionals.\" Traditional models of medicine had patient records (held on paper or a proprietary computer system) that could only be accessed by a physician or other medical professional. Physicians acted as gatekeepers to this information, telling patients test results when and if they deemed it necessary. Such a model operates relatively well in situations such as acute care, where information about specific blood results would be of little use to a lay person, or in general practice where results were generally benign. However, in the case of complex chronic diseases, psychiatric disorders, or diseases of unknown etiology patients were at risk of being left without well-coordinated care because data about them was stored in a variety of disparate places and in some cases might contain the opinions of healthcare professionals which were not to be shared with the patient. Increasingly, medical ethics deems such actions to be medical paternalism, and they are discouraged in modern medicine.\n\nA hypothetical example demonstrates the increased engagement of a patient operating in a Health 2.0 setting: a patient goes to see their primary care physician with a presenting complaint, having first ensured their own medical record was up to date via the Internet. The treating physician might make a diagnosis or send for tests, the results of which could be transmitted directly to the patient's electronic medical record. If a second appointment is needed, the patient will have had time to research what the results might mean for them, what diagnoses may be likely, and may have communicated with other patients who have had a similar set of results in the past. On a second visit a referral might be made to a specialist. The patient might have the opportunity to search for the views of other patients on the best specialist to go to, and in combination with their primary care physician decides who to see. The specialist gives a diagnosis along with a prognosis and potential options for treatment. The patient has the opportunity to research these treatment options and take a more proactive role in coming to a joint decision with their healthcare provider. They can also choose to submit more data about themselves, such as through a personalized genomics service to identify any risk factors that might improve or worsen their prognosis. As treatment commences, the patient can track their health outcomes through a data-sharing patient community to determine whether the treatment is having an effect for them, and they can stay up to date on research opportunities and clinical trials for their condition. They also have the social support of communicating with other patients diagnosed with the same condition throughout the world.\n\nPartly due to weak definitions, the novelty of the endeavor and its nature as an entrepreneurial (rather than academic) movement, little empirical evidence exists to explain how much Web 2.0 is being used in general. While it has been estimated that nearly one-third of the 100 million Americans who have looked for health information online say that they or people they know have been significantly helped by what they found, this study considers only the broader use of the Internet for health management.\n\nA study examining physician practices has suggested that a segment of 245,000 physicians in the U.S are using Web 2.0 for their practice, indicating that use is beyond the stage of the early adopter with regard to physicians and Web 2.0.\n\nWeb 2.0 is commonly associated with technologies such as podcasts, RSS feeds, social bookmarking, weblogs (health blogs), wikis, and other forms of many-to-many publishing; social software; and web application programming interfaces (APIs).\n\nThe following are examples of uses that have been documented in academic literature.\n\nHughes \"et al.\" (2009) argue there are four major tensions represented in the literature on Health/Medicine 2.0. These concern:\nSeveral criticisms have been raised about the use of Web 2.0 in health care. Firstly, Google has limitations as a diagnostic tool for Medical Doctors (MDs), as it may be effective only for conditions with unique symptoms and signs that can easily be used as search term. Studies of its accuracy have returned varying results, and this remains in dispute. Secondly, long-held concerns exist about the effects of patients obtaining information online, such as the idea that patients may delay seeking medical advice or accidentally reveal private medical data. Finally, concerns exist about the quality of user-generated content leading to misinformation, such as perpetuating the discredited claim that the MMR vaccine may cause autism. In contrast, a 2004 study of a British epilepsy online support group suggested that only 6% of information was factually wrong. In a 2007 Pew Research Center survey of Americans, only 3% reported that online advice had caused them serious harm, while nearly one-third reported that they or their acquaintances had been helped by online health advice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12086599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12086599", "title": "Imagery Alliance", "text": "Imagery Alliance\n\nThe Imagery Alliance is a collection of visual arts organizations created to improve orphan works legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29042638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29042638", "title": "Inscrutability of reference", "text": "Inscrutability of reference\n\nThe inscrutability or indeterminacy of reference (also referential inscrutability) is a thesis propounded by 20th century analytic philosopher Willard Van Orman Quine in his book \"Word and Object\". The main claim of this theory is that any given sentence can be changed into a variety of other sentences where the parts of the sentence will change in what they reference, but they will nonetheless maintain the meaning of the sentence as a whole. The , because it is subject to the and of the speaker.\n\nAlong with the holophrastic indeterminacy, the inscrutability of reference is the second kind of indeterminacy that makes up Quine's thesis about the indeterminacy of (radical) translation. While the inscrutability of reference concerns itself with single words, Quine does not want it to be used for propositions, as he attacks those in another way. He challenges the translation or referential scrutability of whole sentences, proposing his idea of the indeterminacy of translation. In order to accomplish this, Quine makes the statement that there is a so-called holophrastic indeterminacy, which tells that there are always multiple translations of one sentence, . This theory, linked with the inscrutability of reference make up the main characteristics of the indeterminacy of translation.\nThe inscrutability of reference can also be used in a more extended way, in order to explain Quine's theory of ontological relativity. We are told that, if we try to determine what the referential object of a certain word is, our answer will always be relative to our own \"\". Now, as Quine sees it, this idea is not only limited to language, but applies also for scientific questions and philosophical ones. For example, if we are proposed a philosophical theory, we can never definitely . The most we can do, is to adapt this theory to our current \"background philosophy\", that is . Because of this theory, Quine was often regarded as a relativist, or even a scientific skepticist. He, however, insisted that he belongs in neither of these categories, and some authors see in the inscrutability of reference an underdetermination of relativism.\n\nIn his indeterminacy of translation theory Quine claims that, if one is to translate a language, there are always several alternative translations, of which none is more correct than the other. A radical translation is therefore impossible. As a special part of this theory the inscrutability of reference indicates that, in trying to find out to which object a certain word (also sentence, sign etc.) of a language refers, there is never only one single possibility. That is even the case, if the possibilities that come into consideration lie very close together. Quine's example of the word \"gavagai\" is used to illustrate this. Note that it is also applied at the indeterminacy of translation, but has traditionally been introduced to point up referential inscrutability. The \"gavagai\" thought experiment tells about a linguist, who tries to find out, what the expression \"gavagai\" means, when uttered by a speaker of a yet unknown, native language upon seeing a rabbit. At first glance, it seems that \"gavagai\" simply translates with \"rabbit\". Now, Quine points out that the background language and its referring devices might fool the linguist here, because he is misled in a sense that he always makes direct comparisons between the foreign language and his own. However, when shouting \"gavagai\", and pointing at a rabbit, the natives could as well refer to something like \"undetached rabbit-parts\", or \"rabbit-tropes\" and it would not make any observable difference. The behavioural data the linguist could collect from the native speaker would be the same in every case, or to reword it, several translation hypotheses could be built on the same sensoric stimuli. Hence, the reference between the term \"gavagai\" and its referring object is language- or framework-dependent, and therefore inscrutable. Quine regards this discovery as trivial, because it is already a widely accepted fact that all the different things one word might refer to can be switched out, because of their proxy functions.\nQuine does not want to show that those native speakers might speak in interestingly different ways and we cannot know about it, but rather that there is nothing to be known. Not only is it impossible to discern, by any method, the correct translation and referential relation of \"gavagai\", but, in fact, there is not even a correct answer to this question. To make sense of the word \"gavagai\" either way, the linguist simply has to assume that the native speaker does not refer to complicated terms like \"rabbits-tropes\". The finding, then, that \"gavagai\" means \"rabbit\" is not really a translation, but merely a common sense interpretation.\nIt is important to note that indeterminacy and inscrutability not only occur in the course of translating something from a native, unknown language into a familiar one, but among every language. This holds also for languages which are quite similar, like German and Dutch, and even for speakers of the same language. One cannot with certainty say, what exactly his/her conversational partner refers to, when that person is talking about a rabbit. We commonly use the homophonic rule in those cases, i.e., if one utters \"rabbit\", we assume s/he uses it in the same way we do. But, as has been shown, there are multiple possibilities which can be indistinguishable from one another. This also applies in our own case. We ourselves do not know what it is we are referring to in using the word \"rabbit\", that is because there is, in Quine's word, \"no fact of the matter\" at all. One must not, however, use different possible referential objects in the same translation, because they are incommensurable and the resulting translation hypothesis would contain logical fallacies.\n\nHilary Putnam uses Quine's thesis about the inscrutability of reference to challenge the traditional Realist's view that there is a mind-independent world to which our propositional attitudes refer (e.g. when we talk about or think of something, these things exist not in our minds, but in said mind-independent world). This traditional view implies a correspondence theory of truth and might simply be called Realism about Being. While Michael Dummett already tried to show that the correspondence theory fails to obtain in some particular cases, Hilary Putnam is far more radical, for he claims that this theory fails in every case it is tried to be applied. On Putnam's account, the idea that we refer with our sentences and statements to a mind-independent, nonlinguistic world is an illusion. Further he claims that the problem to deal with is a language philosophical one and uses Quine's inscrutability of reference theory to clarify his point of view. He suggests, that, because the referential objects of a language are always inscrutable, the Realist's idea of a mind-independent world is fallacious, because it presupposes distinct referential relations from language to objects in the mind-independent world.\n\nThe inscrutability of reference is also used in the sorites paradox. The classic example for the sorites paradox mentions a heap of wheat grains of which grains are taken away one by one, until at one time there's only a single grain left. This raises the question of where the line is to be drawn. How long does the heap remain a heap, are two grains still a heap? When one is talking about a heap s/he obviously no proper definition of it ready to hand. The referential object of \"heap\" is inscrutable, in the sense that there is no such thing and it is not even necessary for the use of the term \"heap\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36078200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36078200", "title": "Internet in Russian", "text": "Internet in Russian\n\nInternet in Russian (also Russian Internet (), known as Runet) is a part of the Internet that uses the Russian language. Geographically, it reaches all continents, including Antarctica (Russian scientists on Bellingshausen Station), but mostly it is based in Russia.\n\nAccording to reports conducted by Yandex, Russian is the primary language of 91% of Russian websites (in Yandex's list). In the autumn of 2009, Runet contained about 15 million sites (estimated to be about 6.5% of the entire Internet).\n\nDomains with a high proportion of the Russian language include .su, .ru, .рф, .ua, .by, .kz.\n\nRussian is used on 89.8% of .ru sites and on 88.7% of the former Soviet Union domain, .su. Russian is the most used language of websites of several countries that were part of the former Soviet Union: 79.0% in Ukraine, 86.9% in Belarus, 84.0% in Kazakhstan, 79.6% in Uzbekistan, 75.9% in Kyrgyzstan, and 81.8% in Tajikistan.\n\nThe 59.7 million Russian-speaking Internet users, represent 3% of global Internet users. Russia is ranked 9th in the world for number of users and 4th (with 4.8%) for number of Russian-language content.\n\nIn September 2011, Russia surpassed Germany as the biggest Internet market in Europe, with 50.8 million users.\n\nIn March 2013, it was announced that Russian is the second most used language on the web.\n\nHarvard University's Berkman Center conducts regular researches of Russian language web distinguished by Cyrillic encoding. In particular, there are papers named \"Mapping Russian Twitter\", \"Mapping RuNet Politics and Mobilization\" and \"RuNet Echo\". There are Russian internet-reviewing newspapers called TheRunet, Runetologia and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14537318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14537318", "title": "Ironmongery", "text": "Ironmongery\n\nIronmongery originally referred, first, to the manufacture of iron goods and, second, to the place of sale of such items for domestic rather than industrial use. In both contexts, the term has expanded to include items made of steel, aluminium, brass, or other metals, as well as plastics.\n\nThe term ironmonger as a supplier of consumer goods is still widely used in Great Britain, the US equivalent being \"hardware store\". Many architectural ironmongery items (for example, door handles, locks, hinges, etc.) are also manufactured for wholesale and commercial use in offices and other buildings.\n\nDealing in ironware has a long tradition, dating back to the first recorded use of the metal to fashion useful objects as long ago as 1200 BC, and studying the movement of such goods around the world, often over long distances, has provided valuable insight into early societies and trading patterns.\n\nBy the Middle Ages, skilled metalworkers were highly prized for their ability to create a wide range of things, from weaponry, tools and implements to more humble domestic items, and the local blacksmith remained the principal source of ironmongery until the Industrial Revolution saw the introduction of mass production from the late 18th century. In the areas where ironware and nails were manufactured, particularly the Black Country, an ironmonger was a manufacturer operating under the domestic system, who put out iron to smiths, nailers, or other metal workers, and then organised the distribution of the finished products to retailers.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, Victorian ironmongery offered a treasurehouse of appealing metalwork, with elaborate manufacturers’ catalogues offering literally thousands of objects to meet each and every need, almost all of which sought to combine practicality with pleasing design.\nThe second half of the 20th century saw the steady decline of ironmongers’ shops. Although every small town in Britain used to have at least one, their fate has mirrored that of many traditional emporia. The number of ironmongers has fallen dramatically with the advent of DIY superstores that offer a complete range of ironmongery and associated products under one roof, and more recently the arrival of comprehensive mail order catalogues and internet suppliers.\n\nHowever, there has been a simultaneous revival in the fortunes of old-style hand-forged ironmongery, with strong interest in the authentic restoration of period homes leading to demand for items such as traditional iron door handles, door knobs, door knockers, letter plates, locks, hinges, hooks, cabinet fittings and window furniture. There has even been renewed use of “blacksmith nails” – four-sided hand-made rosehead nails. This is typical of a trend that has seen greater appreciation of designs that have stood the test of time, that has allowed hand-forged ironmongery to find a much wider application than use in property restoration – although the practice of incorporating traditional ironmongery into contemporary housing has been helped by thoroughly modern techniques like galvanising and powder coating to inhibit rust.\n\nIn some areas, \"ironmonger\" is also slang for an arms dealer, giving rise to numerous fictional characters by the name.\n\n"}
{"id": "1368666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1368666", "title": "Isaac Asimov short stories bibliography", "text": "Isaac Asimov short stories bibliography\n\nThis is a list of short stories by Isaac Asimov. Asimov is mainly famous for his science-fiction, but he also wrote mystery and fantasy stories.\n\nThis list includes Asimov's \"Foundation\" short stories, which were later collected into three novels known as the \"Foundation Trilogy\".\n\nIn this table, \"year\" refers to the year of publication, and in the case of magazines means the cover date (which is not always the year when the magazine actually appeared on sale). Alternative titles appear in brackets. (383 stories appear on this list.)\n\nThe collection \"I, Robot\" also contains a linking text at the beginning and end of the book, and in between some (but not all) of the stories, which form a framing story not found anywhere else.\n\nA play by Asimov called \"The Story Machine\", which is an adaptation of his short story \"Someday\", was published in the February 1958 issue of \"Plays\".\n\nIn 1950 Asimov wrote a comic strip called \"Star Empire\" (art by Charles Schneeman). The first page appeared in the May 1990 issue of \"Argosy\".\n\nFive published stories were never included in Asimov's own books. They were however included in other anthologies.\n\nNine science fiction stories have never been collected in any book:\n\n20 mystery stories have also never been anthologised. Of these, all but one are Union Club mystery stories (for a list, see The Union Club Mysteries). \"Zip Code\" (1986) is a mystery story featuring the boy detective character Larry.\n\nNine stories which Asimov wrote early in his career were never published anywhere, and are now lost:\n\nIn the 1972 anthology \"The Early Asimov\", Asimov listed two other stories which he thought had also been lost: \"The Weapon\" (1938) and \"Big Game\" (1941). However, they were subsequently found and collected in \"In Memory Yet Green\" (1979) and \"Before the Golden Age\" (1974), respectively. (They are included in the above list of published stories.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47956963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47956963", "title": "John Ringo bibliography", "text": "John Ringo bibliography\n\nThis is complete list by American military science fiction writer John Ringo.\n\nSeries based on a zombie apocalypse, but dealing with living, near-rabid, infected humans rather than the living dead. The story centers around a family of survivalists (mother, father, and two teenage daughters) who get early warning of the plague and escape by boat, only to realize that they are the best hope for others stranded at sea.\n\nThe Troy Rising series has been inspired by the webcomic Schlock Mercenary and its universe. It has been created with the approval of both authors, but is not considered canon for the webcomic series.\nThe series is set in the early days of human-alien contact, with humans forced to defend the Earth from the alien invasion.\n\n\nAlso known as the \"Posleen Series\" and \"Posleen War Series\" after the name of the invading species besetting and successfully conquering much of Earth.\n\n\n\n\nCo-written with Julie Cochrane, this series is more cloak and dagger spy genre fiction as the humans strive to overcome the game rigged by the Darhel race that has the rest of the galaxy's races in virtual thralldom—except for the Posleen and humans whom they fear. The Darhel systematically use humans to combat the Posleen, while bleeding the humans when and wherever possible by underhanded clandestine acts to weaken the future options of humanity.\n\n\nAlso known as the \"Prince Roger Series\"\n\nCo-written with David Weber, with multiple books still under contract\n\n\n\nThis is a series of contemporary era techno-thrillers, much like Tom Clancy's works but with less politics and a closer to the ground level and action focus.\n\nRingo has stated that these novels stem from a nagging idea between contracted books. He believed the concept was too over-the-top and offensive to be of much interest to his usual audience, and so wrote the first book with no intention of publishing it, as a way to get the idea out of his head. However, during interactions with fans, he mentioned the unpublished story and was surprised that the premise was met with enthusiasm. The \"Paladin of Shadows\" series contain graphic scenes of rape, bondage, torture, and underage sex, as Ringo's protagonist's anti-terrorism missions butt heads with harsh economic realities of commercial sexual slavery in Eastern Europe and its connection to funding arms for terrorist organizations. \n\nThe central hero, Michael Harmon (A.K.A. Mike Jenkins, A.K.A. Ghost), is a self-proclaimed sadist, repressed rapist, former United States Navy Boatswain's Mate 1st Class, and a trainer of US Navy SEALs. While walking after a class on the campus of the University of Georgia, he witnesses a woman being kidnapped. He impulsively follows the kidnapper and rescues several abducted women and earns the gratitude of several nations, a small fortune, and a series of high-level political connections in the process of experiencing a life change. The work is, in fact, three connected anti-terrorism novellas spanning about a year, backstory omitted from the last two, where\" 'Jenkins' \"takes on a certain James Bond-style sole operator/loose cannon role. The work features scenes involving the interception of two nuclear devices, saving Paris and Washington, D.C., while featuring a travelogue through part of the seamier sides of the Balkans and European parts of the former Soviet Union.\nIn the second work, he buys an estate in eastern Europe (the country of Georgia to be specific) that has an entailed ancient warrior tribe, called the Keldera, who bestow on him the honorific \"The Kildar\" (Warlord, Baron, or similar title). The Keldera aid him in reducing tensions in the Caucasus. Again the book shows a life transition, this time from a sole shooter to a local, politically connected, warlord. In subsequent books, the tribe, now being trained up into a superb light company, goes operational and is employed as a deniable black ops force by the United States for the next several works. By \"A Deeper Blue\", some of the Keldaran force has been trained in both SCUBA and HALO jumps; while \"Tiger by the Tail\" shows the force on an extended training mission in the Pacific gradually being trained \"en toto\" as a force equivalent to U.S. Navy SEAL Teams—but with Company strength.\n\nOther major/recurring characters in the \"Paladin of Shadows\" series include Charles Adams, a retired SEAL Master Chief, intel specialist and former USMC Sergeant Patrick Vanner, United States Army War College graduate Colonel David Nielson, a retired Special Ops Civil Affairs Specialist who serves as Mike's \"de facto\" Chief of Staff and the only American officer on his senior staff, Captains Kasey Bathlick and Tamara Wilson (call signs Dragon and Valkryie), two Marine Corps helicopter pilots, Captain John Hardesty, a charter pilot for Chatham Aviation in England/former Royal Air Force Major/Squadron leader who frequently flies Mike around the globe, Colonel Bob Pierson, the Office of Strategic Operations Liaison at the Pentagon who serves as one of Mike's primary contacts within the United States government, 2nd Lieutenant Britney \"Bambi\" Harder, who was rescued by Mike in \"Ghost\" and by \"A Deeper Blue\" is a junior intelligence officer at United States Special Operations Command Headquarters, MacDill Air Force Base, Florida, Anastasia Rakovitch, a masochistic 26-year-old Russian-born woman given to the Kildar by an Uzbek sheikh who now serves as his harem manager, Daria Koroleva, the Kildar's personal assistant, Katya \"Cottontail\" Ivanova, the sociopathic man-hating whore-turned-spy and assassin, and David and Amanda Cliff, the President and First Lady of the United States.\n\nAlso called the \"Looking Glass\" series\n\nAll books titles in the series are phrases taken from the poem \"Jabberwocky\", which is mentioned repeatedly in the later novels.\n\n\n\nCo-written with Larry Correia\n\nA prequel series set in the Monster Hunter International universe during the 1980s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41293545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41293545", "title": "Khasnor Johan", "text": "Khasnor Johan\n\nKhasnor Johan is a Malaysian author and historian.\n\nJohan married Australian political scientist and author Harold Crouch in 1973.\n\nJohan studied at the University of Malaya (in Kuala Lumpur). Her master's thesis, \"The Malay College, Kuala Kangsar, 1905-1941: British Policy of Education for Employment in the Federated Malay States.\" was published in 1969. Like her husband, Johan attained her PhD at Monash University in Melbourne. Her thesis, published in 1974, was \"The Administrative Elite in the Federated Malay States: An Aspect of Malaysian Social History.\"\n\nFrom 1974 to 1992, Johan taught history at National University of Malaysia Crouch also taught at the university, his tenure from 1976 to 1990. In 1991 he began teaching at Australian National University in Canberra. Johan retired from teaching in 1992 and moved to Canberra. She was living in Canberra in 2002.\n\nJohan published works between 1969 and 2005 in English.\n \n\n"}
{"id": "22231742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22231742", "title": "Langston Hughes Society", "text": "Langston Hughes Society\n\nThe Langston Hughes Society is a United States-based literary society concerned with the work of African American poet Langston Hughes. The society was the first national organisation to be dedicated to the work of an African American writer. Founded after the poet's death and in the wake of the Langston Hughes Study conference of 1981 by Hughes' literary assistant George Houston Bass, the society's official publication is the \"Langston Hughes Review\", published by Institute for African American Studies at The University of Georgia. The organisation also presents the \"Langston Hughes Award\" annually. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9361252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9361252", "title": "Latin American art", "text": "Latin American art\n\nLatin American art is the combined artistic expression of South America, Central America, the Caribbean, and Mexico, as well as Latin Americans living in other regions.\n\nThe art has roots in the many different indigenous cultures that inhabited the Americas before European colonization in the 16th century. The indigenous cultures each developed sophisticated artistic disciplines, which were highly influenced by religious and spiritual concerns. Their work is collectively known and referred to as Pre-columbian art. The blending of Native American, African and European cultures has resulted in a unique mestizo tradition.\n\nDuring the colonial period, a mixture of indigenous traditions and European influences (mainly due to the Christian teachings of Franciscan, Augustinian and Dominican friars) produced a very particular Christian art known as Indochristian art. In addition to indigenous art, the development of Latin American visual art was significantly influenced by Spanish, Portuguese, and French and Dutch Baroque painting. In turn Baroque painting was often influenced by the Italian masters.\n\nGillis van van Schendel (ca. 1635–1678/9) the younger. sign. active 17 Jh. \nBrasilianische Gebirgslandschaft mit Bergziege und Gebirgsbach (Brazilian Landscape with goats, a waterfall and a palmtree)\n(The scene may be a view of the waterfalls in the virgin forests in Teresópolis which runs through the Parquequer river, near Recife, Brasil) \" aside from the well-known artists, other painters, draughtsman and engravers must have been gravitating toward this most interesting and stimulating little Court. They were doubtless entranced by the grat adventure, by the opportunity to interpret exotic themes, either on the spot or after sketches made in these foreign parts and vicariously used after their return a patria \"\n(Lit.: Some seventeen-century paintings of Brazil,\" The Connoisseur, October 1970, page. 130) oil on canvas., 119 x 99 cm\n\nThe Cuzco School is viewed as the first center of European-style painting in the Americas. In the 17th and 18th centuries, Spanish art instructors taught Quechua artists to paint religious imagery based on classical and Renaissance styles.\n\nIn eighteenth-century New Spain, Mexican artists along with a few Spanish artists produced paintings of a system of racial hierarchy, known as casta paintings. It was almost exclusively a Mexican form however, one set was produced in Peru. In a break from religious paintings of the preceding centuries, casta paintings were a secular art form. Only one known casta painting by a relatively unknown painter, Luis de Mena, combines castas with Mexico's Virgin of Guadalupe; this being an exception. Some of Mexico's most distinguished artists painted casta works, including Miguel Cabrera. Most casta paintings were on multiple canvases, with one family grouping on each. There were a handful of single canvas paintings, showing the entire racial hierarchy. The paintings show idealized family groupings, with the father being of one racial, the mother of another racial category, and their offspring being a third racial category. This genre of painting flourished for about a century, coming to an end with Mexican independence in 1821, and the abolition of legal racial categories.\n\nIn the seventeenth century, The Netherlands had captured the rich sugar-producing area of the Portuguese colony of Brazil (1630–1654). During that period, Dutch artist Albert Eckhout painted a number of important depictions of social types in Brazil. These depictions included images of indigenous men and women, as well as still lifes.\n\nScientific expeditions approved by the Spanish crown began exploring Spanish America where its flora and fauna were recorded. Spaniard José Celestino Mutis, a medical doctor and horticulturalist and follower of Swedish scientist Carl Linnaeus, led an expedition starting in 1784 to northern South America, the expedition is known as the \"Expedición Botánica de Nueva Granada\". Local artists were Ecuadorean Indians, who produced five thousand color drawings of nature, all being published. The crown chartered expedition whose purpose was scientific recording of the natural beauty and wealth of Nature, was a departure from the long traditional religious art.\n\nThe most important scientific expedition was that of Alexander von Humboldt and French botantist Aimé Bonpland. They traveled for five years throughout Spanish America (1799-1804), exploring and recording scientific information as well as the attire and lifestyles local populations. Humboldt's work became an inspiration and template for continuing scientific work in the nineteenth century, as well as traveller reporters who recorded the scenes of everyday life.\n\nThe history of Latin American art has generally been written by those with training in art history departments. However, the concept of \"visual culture\" has now brought scholars trained in other disciplines to write the histories of art. As with the history of indigenous peoples, for many years there was a focus on either the pre-Columbian period (Olmec, Maya, Aztec, Inca) art production, then a leap to the twentieth century. More recently, the colonial era and the nineteenth century have developed as fields of focus. Visual culture as a field increasingly crosses disciplinary boundaries. Colonial architecture has been the subject of a number of important studies.\n\nColonial art has a long tradition, especially in Mexico, with there being publications of Manuel Toussaint. In recent years, there has been a boom in publications on colonial art, with some useful overviews being published in recent years. Many works deal exclusively with Spanish America.\n\nMajor exhibitions on colonial art have resulted in fine catalogs as a permanent record.\n\nModernism, a Western art movement typified by the rejection of traditional classical styles. This movement holds an ambivalent position in Latin American art. Not all countries developed modernized urban centers at the same time, so Modernism's appearance in Latin America is difficult to date. While Modernism was welcomed by some, others rejected it. Generally speaking, the countries of the Southern Cone were more open to foreign influence, while countries with a stronger indigenous presence such as Mexico, Peru, Ecuador, and Bolivia were resistant to European culture.\n\nA landmark event for Modernism in the region was, the \"Semana de Arte Moderna\" or Modern Art Week, a festival that took place in São Paulo, Brazil, in 1922, marking the beginning of Brazil's Modernismo movement. \"[T]hough a number of individual Brazilian artists were doing modernist work before the Week, it coalesced and defined the movement and introduced it to Brazilian society at large.\"\n\nIn general, the artistic Eurocentrism associated with the colonial period began to fade in the early twentieth century, as Latin Americans began to acknowledge their unique identity and started to follow their own path.\n\nFrom the early twentieth century onward, the art of Latin America was greatly inspired by Constructivism. It quickly spread from Russia to Europe, and then into Latin America. Joaquín Torres García and Manuel Rendón have been credited with bringing the Constructivist Movement from Europe, to Latin America.\n\nAfter a long and successful career in Europe and the United States, Joaquín Torres-García, returned to his native Uruguay in 1934, where he heavily promoted Constructivism. Attracting a circle of experienced peers and young artists as followers in Montevideo, in 1935 he founded the Asociación de Arte Constructivo as an art center and exhibition space for his circle. The venue was closed in 1940 due to a lack of funding. In 1943, he opened the Taller Torres-García, a workshop and training center that operated until 1962.\n\nMuralism or Muralismo is an important artistic movement generated in Latin America. It is popularly represented by the Mexican muralism movement of Diego Rivera, David Alfaro Siqueiros, José Clemente Orozco, and Rufino Tamayo. In Chile, José Venturelli and Pedro Nel Gómez were influential muralists. Santiago Martinez Delgado championed muralism in Colombia, as did Gabriel Bracho in Venezuela. In the Dominican Republic, Spanish exile José Vela Zanetti was a prolific muralist, painting over 100 murals in the country. The Ecuadorian artist Oswaldo Guayasamín (a student of Orozco), the Brazilian Candido Portinari, and Bolivian Miguel Alandia Pantoja are also noteworthy. Some of the most impressive \"Muralista\" works can be found in Mexico, Colombia, New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago and Philadelphia. Mexican Muralism \"enjoyed a type of prestige and influence in other countries that no other American art movement had ever experienced.\" Through Muralism, artists in Latin America found a distinctive art form that provided for political and cultural expression, often focusing on issues of social justice related to their indigenous roots.\n\n\"Generación de la Ruptura,\" or \"Rupture Generation,\" (sometimes simply known as \"Ruptura\") is the name given to an art movement in Mexico in 1960s in which younger artists broke away from the established national style of Muralismo. Born out of the desire of younger artists for greater freedom of style in art, this movement is marked by expressionistic and figurative styles. Mexican artist José Luis Cuevas is credited with initiating the \"Ruptura\". In 1958, Cuevas published a paper called \"La Cortina del Nopal\" (\"The Cactus Curtain\"), which condemned Mexican muralism as overly political, calling it \"cheap journalism and harangue\" rather than art. Representative artists include José Luis Cuevas, Alberto Gironella, and Rafael Coronel.\n\"Nueva Presencia\" (\"new presence\") was an artist group founded by artists Arnold Belkin and Fancisco Icaza in the early 1960s. In response to WWII atrocities such as the Holocaust and the atomic bomb, the artists of Nueva Presencia shared an anti-aesthetic rejection of contemporary trends in art and believed that the artist had a social responsibility. Their beliefs were outlined in the Nueva Presencia manifesto, which was published in the first issue of the poster review of the same name. \"No one, especially the artist, has the right to be indifferent to the social order.\" Members of the group included Francisco\nCorzas (b. 1936), Emilio Ortiz (b. 1936), Leonel Góngora (b.1933), Artemio Sepúlveda (b. 1936), and José Muñoz, Francisco Corzas, and photographer Ignacio \"Nacho\" López.\n\n\"Otra Figuración\" (Other Figuration) was an Argentine artist group and commune formed in 1961, and disbanded in 1966. Members Rómulo Macció, Ernesto Deira, Jorge de la Vega, and Luis Felipe Noé lived together and shared a studio in Buenos Aires. Artists of Otra Figuración worked in an expressionistic abstract figurative style featuring vivid colors and collage. Although Otra Figuración were contemporaries of Nueva Presencia, there was no direct contact between the two groups. People who are sometimes associated with the group are Raquel Forner, Antonio Berni, Alberto Heredia, and Antonio Seguí.\n\nThe French poet and founder of Surrealism, André Breton, after visiting Mexico in 1938, proclaimed it to be \"the surrealist country par excellence.\" Surrealism, an artistic movement originating in post-World War I Europe, strongly impacted the art of Latin America. This is where the mestizo culture, the legacy of European conquer over indigenous peoples, embodies contradiction, a central value of Surrealism.\n\nThe widely known Mexican painter Frida Kahlo painted self-portraits and depictions of traditional Mexican culture in a style that combines Realism, Symbolism and Surrealism. Although, Kahlo did not commend this label, once saying, \"They thought I was a Surrealist, but I wasn't. I never painted dreams. I painted my own reality.\" Kahlo's work commands the highest selling price of all Latin American paintings, and the second-highest for any female artist. Other female Mexican Surrealists include Leonora Carrington (a British woman who relocated to Mexico) and Remedios Varo (a Spanish exile). Mexican artist Alberto Gironella, Chilean artists Roberto Matta, Mario Carreño Morales, and Nemesio Antúnez, Cuban artist Wifredo Lam, and Argentinean artist Roberto Aizenberg have also been classified as Surrealists.\n\nEuropean classical art styles have made a long-lasting impression on the art of Latin America. Into the twentieth century, many Latin American artists continued to be schooled in the traditional 19th-century style, resulting in a continued emphasis on figurative work. Due to the far reach of figuration, the work often spans upon a number of different styles such as Realism, Pop art, Expressionism, and Surrealism, only naming a few. While these artists confront issues that range from the personal to the political, many have a shared interest in indigenous issues and the heritage of European cultural imperialism.\n\nArt in Latin America has often been used as a means of social and political critique. Mexican graphic artist José Guadalupe Posada drew harsh images of Mexican elites as skeletons, calaveras. This was done prior to the Mexican Revolution, strongly influencing later artists, such as Diego Rivera.\nA common practice among Latin American figurative artists is to parody Old Master paintings, especially those of the Spanish court produced by Diego Velázquez in the 17th century. These parodies serve a dual purpose, referring to the artistic and cultural history of Latin America, and critiquing the legacy of European cultural imperialism in Latin American nations. Two notable artists who frequently employed this technique are Fernando Botero and Alberto Gironella.\n\nColombian figurative artist Fernando Botero, whose work features unique \"puffy\" figures in various situations addressing themes of power, war, and social issues, has used this technique to draw parallels between current governing bodies and the Spanish monarchy. His 1967 painting \"The Presidential Family\", is an early example. The painting, echoing Diego Velázquez's 1656 Spanish court painting \"Las Meninas\" (The Maids of Honor), contains a self-portrait of Botero standing behind a large canvas. The thick, \"puffy\" presidential family, decked out in fashionable finery and staring blandly out of the canvas, appear socially superior, drawing attention to social inequality. According to Botero, his \"puffy\" figures are not meant to be satirical. He painted a powerful series of canvases, which are based on photos of torture by the U.S. military of Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib prison.\n\nMexican painter and collagist Alberto Gironella, whose style mixes elements of Surrealism and Pop art, also produced parodies of official Spanish court paintings. He completed dozens of versions of Velásquez's \"Queen Mariana\" from 1652. Gironella's parodies critique the Spanish rule of Mexico by incorporating subversive imagery. ‘’La Reina de los Yugos’’ or \"The Queen of Yokes\" (1975–81) depicts Mariana with a skirt made of upside-down ox yokes, signifying both Spanish dominance over Mexico's indigenous peoples, and those people's subversion of Spanish rule. The yokes are rendered useless by being upturned. \"[Gironella's] hallmark was the use of particular Spanish Grocery cans (sardines, mussels, etc.) in his works, and soda bottle caps nailed or glued around the rim of his paintings.\"\n\nPhotographers captured on film, indigenous peoples as well as distinct social types, such as the gauchos of Argentina. A number of Latin Americans have made significant contributions to modern photography. Guillermo Kahlo photographed Mexican colonial buildings and infrastructure, such as the railway bridge at Metlac. Agustín Casasola himself took many images of the Mexican Revolution, and compiled an extensive archive of Mexican photos. Other photographers include indigenous Peruvian Martín Chambi, Mexican Graciela Iturbide, and Cuban Alberto Korda, famous for his iconic image of Che Guevara. Mario Testino is a noted fashion photographer. In addition, a number of non-Latin American photographers have focused on the area, including Tina Modotti and Edward Weston in Mexico. Guatemalan national María Cristina Orive has worked in Argentina with Sara Facio. Ecuadoran Hugo Cifuentes has garnered attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "44133618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44133618", "title": "Latin Grammy Hall of Fame", "text": "Latin Grammy Hall of Fame\n\nThe Latin Grammy Hall of Fame is a hall of fame established by the Latin Recording Academy to recognize \"early recordings of lasting qualitative or historical significance that were released more than 25 years ago\". LARAS is also the same organization that distributes the Latin Grammy Awards. The albums and songs are picked by a panel of recording-arts professionals, such as musicologists and historians, and selected from all major categories of Latin music.\n\nThe first inductions were made in 2001 to honor 17 recordings. These included Santana's cover of Tito Puente's \"Oye Como Va\", Javier Solís's rendition of \"Sabor a Mí\" and the 1948 performance of Joaquín Rodrigo's \"Concierto de Aranjuez\" by Regino Sainz de la Maza and the Orquesta Nacional de España. The inductions have each occurred six years apart from one another.\n\n\"La Bamba\" by Ritchie Valens and \"Chega de Saudade\" by João Gilberto were also inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 2000. \"Getz/Gilberto\" by Stan Getz and João Gilberto won the Grammy Award for Album of the Year at the 7th Annual Grammy Awards in 1965. \"El Manisero (The Peanut Vendor)\" by Don Azpiazu and \"Cuban Jam Sessions in Miniature/Descargas\" by Cachao were inducted into the National Recording Registry in 2005 and 2012 respectively. \"Eres Tú\" by Mocedades placed second on the 1973 Eurovision Song Contest. Brazilian musician Antônio Carlos Jobim is the artist with the most works inducted into the Latin Grammy Hall of Fame with four recordings.\n\n Each year is linked to an article about the Latin Grammy Awards ceremony of that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "3660137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660137", "title": "Law of heraldic arms", "text": "Law of heraldic arms\n\nThe law of heraldic arms (or laws of heraldry) governs the \"bearing of arms\", that is, the possession, use or display of arms, also called coats of arms, coat armour or armorial bearings. Although it is believed that the original function of coats of arms was to enable knights to identify each other on the battlefield, they soon acquired wider, more decorative uses. They are still widely used today by countries, public and private institutions and by individuals. The earliest writer on the law of arms was Bartolus de Saxoferrato. The officials who administer these matters are called pursuivants, heralds, or kings of arms (in increasing order of seniority). The law of arms is part of the law in countries which regulate heraldry, although not part of common law in England and in countries whose laws derive from English law.\n\nAccording to the usual description of the law of arms, coats of arms, armorial badges, flags and standards and other similar emblems of honour may only be borne by virtue of ancestral right, or of a grant made to the user under due authority. \"Ancestral right\" means descent in the male line from an ancestor who lawfully bore arms. \"Due authority\" has, since late medieval times, been the Crown or the State.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Commonwealth, the Crown's prerogative of granting arms is delegated to one of several authorities depending on the country. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the authority to grant arms is delegated to the Kings of Arms of the College of Arms, under the direction of the Earl Marshal. In Scotland, this authority is delegated to Lord Lyon King of Arms at his or her own discretion. In Canada, it is exercised by Canadian Heraldic Authority under the direction of the Governor-General of Canada.\n\nIn Ireland, unlike the position in the United Kingdom, a grant of arms from an official authority is not a legal prerequisite to the use of arms. For example, heraldic symbols and coats of arms that existed pre-1552 and afterwards belonged to the Gaelic tradition may continue in use, as well as arms without any official basis.\n\nIn Spain, whilst the power to grant new arms is restricted to the king, the Cronistas de Armas (Chroniclers of Arms) have the power to certify arms within the province(s) of their appointment. As of 2008, there is currently only one, with authority only in the provinces of Castile and León.\n\nWhile the degree to which the general law recognises arms differs, in both England and Scotland a grant of arms confers certain rights upon the grantee and his (or her) heirs, even if they may not be easily protected. No person may lawfully have the same coat of arms as another person in the same heraldic jurisdiction although in England the bearing of identical arms without differencing marks by descendants from a common armigerous ancestor has been widespread and tolerated by the College of Arms.\n\nAlthough the common law courts do not regard coats of arms as either property or as being defensible by action, armorial bearings are a form of property nevertheless, generally described as \"tesserae gentilitatis\" or insignia of gentility. Armorial bearings are incorporeal and impartible hereditaments, inalienable, and descendable according to the law of arms. Generally speaking (there have been very rare examples of patents in which the arms are granted to descend with some different limitation), this means they are inherited by the issue (male and female) in the male line of the grantee, though they can be inherited as quarterings by the sons of an heraldic heiress, where there is no surviving male heir, provided her issue also have a right to bear arms in their own male line.\n\nIn Ireland the granting of arms to Irish citizens or to those who can prove Irish ancestry is considered to be a cultural tradition which is allowed through the Office of the Chief Herald of Ireland. This Office was established under the English Crown in 1552 as the Ulster King of Arms and was converted to the Chief Herald's Office after the 1937 Constitution of Ireland.\n\nThe Office of Chief Herald was given statutory force in the National Cultural Institutions Act 1997. However some doubts remained as to the effectiveness of the 1997 Act and proposals for further legislative amendment have been made by individual public representatives. For example, on 8 May 2006 Senator Brendan Ryan introduced the Genealogy & Heraldry Bill, 2006, in Seanad Éireann (Irish Senate) to this end.\n\nIn England and Wales, the law of arms is regarded as a part of the laws of England, and the common law courts will take judicial notice of it as such. These dignities, as they are called, have legal standing. But the law of arms is not part of the common law and the common law Courts have no jurisdiction over matters of dignities and honours, such as armorial bearings, or peerages. In this respect the law of arms was most influenced by the civil law and may be regarded as similar to the ecclesiastical law, which is a part of the laws of England influenced by canon law, but not part of the common law.\n\nIn England the exclusive jurisdiction of deciding rights to arms, and claims of descent, is vested in the Court of Chivalry. As the substance of the common law is found in the judgments of the common law Courts, so the substance of the Law of Arms can only be found in the customs and usages of the Court of Chivalry. However, the records of this are sparse, not least because the Court never gave reasoned judgments (the Lord Chief Justice who sat in 1954 offering the sole exception to this, no doubt because of his professional background as a common law Judge). The procedure was based on that of the civil law, but the substantive law was recognised to be English, and peculiar to the Court of Chivalry.\n\nUntil 1945 coats of arms (engravings, public paintings, etc.) were taxed, with no distinction made in the statute between arms granted by the College of Arms or those which were self-assumed.\n\nThe law of arms as understood in Scotland consists of two principal parts, the rules of heraldry (such as blazoning), and the law of heraldry. In contrast to the position in England, the Law of Arms is a branch of the civil law. A coat of arms is incorporeal heritable property, governed, subject to certain specialities, by the general law applicable to such property. The possession of armorial bearings is therefore unquestionably a question of property. The misappropriation of arms is a real injury, actionable under the common law of Scotland.\n\nThe Canadian law of arms is now regulated by the Canadian Heraldic Authority.\n\nIn Denmark the unlawful use of coats of arms and other insignia of Danish and foreign authorities is a criminal offence (Danish Criminal Code §§ 132-133). Non-official coats of arms are not protected. A specific rendition of a coat of arms is protected through copyright law and a coat of arms can be used as a trademark and will thus be protected by trademark law. There is no official heraldic authority for private arms in Denmark. Most insignia used by municipalities are regulated by the Heraldic Consultant to the Danish State (an office under the Danish National Archives). Registration by the Heraldic Consultant to the Danish State is a prerequisite for protection of official Danish insignia under the Criminal Code's §§ 132-133. Protection of an insignia in terms of trademark law requires registration by the trademark authorities. If an insignia is registered by the Heraldic Consultant, trademark rights are automatically acquired as well.\n\nDuring the Absolutist era, arms of nobility were granted by the King's herald, but this office was dissolved in 1849 when the absolutist era ended. Since then, the only way to acquire coats of arms in Denmark is through assumption.\n\nThe national arms and the royal arms arms sort under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and military arms are a matter of the heads of each branch of the Norwegian Armed Forces. The National Archives of Norway are the heraldic authority for the royal approbation of municipal arms. Public arms are protected by the Norwegian Penal Code, article 328. The same article prohibits as well unauthorised use of foreign public arms and some distinctive signs of international organizations.\n\nThere exists no official authority for private arms and the question of legal protection of private arms has not been asked to a Norwegian legal court. Personal arms, family arms and other private arms have been self assumed in Norway since the Middle Ages, without any grants, interference or protests from the public authorities.\n\nIn Germany the arms relate to a family, and so a name, and not to an individual. The right to the arms passes from the original bearer to those of his legitimate direct descendants by a male line. Since 1918 heraldic affairs are handled under the Civil Law. The right to arms is now considered analogous to the right to names, expressed in the Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch § 12; this interpretation was confirmed in 1992 by the Federal Court of Justice of Germany. Thus, if one has the right to certain arms, that right is protected by the courts. Personal arms are protected as a part of the name if the arms are officially recorded and published.\n\nSpeaking very generally, Italian coats of arms may be said to be familial rather than personal. A formal system for indicating cadency is unknown outside the House of Savoy. In Italy there has been no official regulation of familial coats of arms or titles of nobility since abolition of the Consulta Araldica in 1948, and that body addressed itself primarily to state recognition of titles of nobility rather than the heraldry of untitled armigers such as nobili (untitled nobles) and patrizi (of the patriciates in the former city-states). Until the unification of the country in the decade leading to 1870, the issuance and use of familial coats of arms was exercised rather loosely in the various Italian states, with each region applying its own laws, and the principal focus was titles of nobility or (before circa 1800) feudal rights. Indeed, upon ennoblement, a count or baron not from an armigerous family might actually assume his own, original coat of arms without recourse to any authority. For this reason, actual grants of arms were very rare. There is no complete armory of Italian coats of arms, though certain authors, most importantly Giambattista Crollalanza, compiled references which appear to be nearly complete. Until the establishment of the republic (1946) and its constitution two years later, most coats of arms in Italy appertained to noble families, whether titled or not, although a number of blazons were identified with cittadini (burghers) whose families had used these for a century or more. The \"Blasonario\" contemplated by the Consulta Araldica would have been an official compilation of blazons (i.e. an armory) but, unfortunately, it was still in a very early draft stage when the monarchy fell in 1946. In 1967 the Constitutional Court ruled that nobiliary and heraldic matters were \"outside the scope of the law\". Italy's concordat with the Vatican in 1984, revising the Lateran Treaties, abrogated the article whereby Italy recognises Papal titles.\n\nUnder South African law, which is Roman–Dutch, all citizens have the right to assume and bear arms as they please, provided they do not infringe the rights of others (e.g. by bearing the same arms). The Bureau of Heraldry has the power to register coats of arms to protect against misuse, but registration of arms is voluntary.\n\nIn the United States protection of coats of arms is for the most part limited to specific units of the armed forces, with a few exceptions. George Washington, in personal correspondence, expressed opposition to establishment of a national heraldic authority, though he made use of his own ancestral arms. Personal coats of arms may be freely assumed but the right to these blazons is not protected in any way. It is possible that a coat of arms could be successfully protected as a trademark or service mark, but, in general, such protection is reserved for commercial use as a mark connected with a good or service, and not as a heraldic coat of arms. For example, the University of Texas at Austin has registered its emblem and coat of arms for use in its capacity as an institution of higher education. Moreover, such protection presumes a specific graphic design or work of art, while blazon is a description which may be widely interpreted artistically. A specific coat of arms could be protected by copyright as a pictorial, graphic or sculptural work. The usual requirements of originality and artistic creativity would need to be met; neither notice nor registration is required but may be advisable.\n\nIn England the officer with power to adjudicate on legal aspects of the law of arms is the Earl Marshal, whose court is known as the Court of Chivalry. The court was established some time prior to the late fourteenth century with jurisdiction over certain military matters, which came to include misuse of arms.\n\nIts jurisdiction and powers were successively reduced by the common law courts to the point where, after 1737, the Court ceased to be convened and was in time regarded as obsolete and no longer in existence. That understanding was authoritatively overturned, however, by a revival of the Court in 1954, when the Earl Marshal appointed the then Lord Chief Justice to sit as his surrogate. The Lord Chief Justice Lord Goddard confirmed that the Court retained both its existence and its powers, and ruled in favour of the suit before him.\n\nHowever, in his judgement (\"Manchester Corporation v Manchester Palace of Varieties\" [1955] P 133) Lord Goddard suggested that\n\nIn 1970, Arundel Herald Extraordinary advised Wolfson College, Oxford (who were considering whether to invoke a controversial University privilege in order to avoid paying for a grant of arms) that the effect of Lord Goddard’s dictum “must make any further sitting of the court unlikely even for a cause of instance; and the revival of causes of office, which were obsolescent even in the seventeenth century, would be more difficult still.” (quoted in “The Coat of Arms of Wolfson College Oxford” by Dr Jeremy Black \"The College Record\" 1989–90).\n\nIn 1984, Garter King of Arms declined to ask the Court to rule against the assumption of unauthorised arms by a local authority, doubting whether the precedents would give jurisdiction (\"A New Dictionary of Heraldry\" (1987) Stephen Friar p 63).\n\nHence, although the Law of Arms undoubtedly remains part of the law of England, and although the Court of Chivalry in theory exists as a forum in which it may be enforced, there is difficulty in enforcing the law in practice (a point made in \"Re Croxon, Croxon v Ferrers\" [1904] Ch 252, Kekewich J). The absence of a practical remedy for the illegal usurpation of arms in the law of England does not mean that there are no rights infringed, merely that it is not within the jurisdiction of the common law courts to act and that the court that is so empowered does not now sit.\n\nIn Scotland, Lord Lyon King of Arms is the judge of the Lyon Court, which has jurisdiction over all heraldic matters. An act of the Scottish parliament in 1592 made the unauthorised use of arms a criminal offence and gave Lyon the responsibility to prosecute such misuse, though in practice this might not be legal today. Unlike the Court of Chivalry, the Court of the Lord Lyon is very much alive, and is fully integrated into the Scottish legal system.\n\nIn England a grant of arms does not ennoble a grantee in itself, but is a recognition of rank or status and, therefore, an authoritative confirmation of it. An armiger (one who has the right to bear arms) is deemed to be of the status of a gentleman, and in England, many of the suits in the Court of Chivalry were decided on that basis. He may of course be of higher rank, as esquire, knight, peer, or prince.\n\nIn contrast, a coat of arms in Scotland is often, not without controversy, said to be a fief annoblissant, similar to a Scottish territorial peerage or barony. Under Sir Thomas Innes of Learney (Lord Lyon King of Arms 1945–1969), wording was introduced into every Scottish patent of arms which states that the grantee \"and his successors in the same are, amongst all Nobles and in all Places of Honour to be taken, numbered, accounted and received as Nobles in the Noblesse of Scotland\". These claims, strongly championed by Innes of Learney himself and by other writers, have now found broad acceptance amongst legal commentators as correctly representing the Law of Arms in Scotland (for example, \"The Stair Encyclopaedia of Scots Law\" (vol. 11, p. 548, para. 1613)), but are challenged by others, some of whom are reluctant to place a grant of arms on the same legal plane as a feudal barony or peerage.\n\nIn 2008, the so-called nobility clause seen in Scottish grants of arms since the days of Lord Lyon Innes of Learney was dropped and is no longer included in new grants of arms.\n\nOn the European continent, there is a clear difference between noble arms and burgher arms.\n\nIn most countries, scholars agree that a coat of arms is an indication of nobility, but that (in times past) simply assuming a coat of arms did not ennoble the armiger. In certain countries (viz. the Italian states pre-1860), armorial heraldry was not strictly regulated, while titles of nobility were.\n\nAs a generality, most nobles, whether titled or not, have coats of arms, hence the widely held perception of heraldry as an aristocratic trapping.\n\nWhile in the continent of Europe assumption of arms has mostly remained free, in some countries arms may not be assumed or changed at will. In particular, there is some basis for the claim that it is unlawful to assume arms in England and Wales without the authority of the Crown. This is the view of the College of Arms and is supported by some dicta in court cases, including \"In re Berens\", [1926] Ch. 596, 605–06, and \"Manchester Corporation v Manchester Palace of Varieties Ltd,\" [1955] P. 133 (the only modern decision of the Court of Chivalry). However, there is no holding by a modern court directly on point. For cases considering the question but not deciding it, see \"Austen v. Collins\", 54 L.T.R. 903 (Ch. 1886); \"In re Croxon\", [1904] Ch. 252.\n\nHowever, the assumption of arms has in every age been common, and became particularly so after the College of Arms ceased to obtain warrants to search out the illegal use of armory by roving enquiries known as the Visitations, the last of which took place at the end of the seventeenth century. The interpretation and application of modern legal principles (such as freedom of expression) have also influenced this, and the annual tax on coats of arms was repealed in 1945.\n\n\"Burke's General Armory\" (last edition 1884) is said to contain arms attributed to 60,000 families (\"The Upper Classes; Property and Privilege in Britain\" J. Scott (1982) p 91). But it has been calculated that there were only 9,458 armigerous families in 1798 (\"The Nobility of the English Gentry\" J. Lawrence (1824)) and a total of 8,320 grants of arms made in the 19th century (\"English Nobility: the Gentry, the Heralds and the Continental Context\" M J Sayer (1979)), which implies, albeit on an extremely rough and ready basis, about 40,000 assumptions of arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "28071973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28071973", "title": "Mill Creek chert", "text": "Mill Creek chert\n\nMill Creek chert is a type of chert found in Southern Illinois and heavily exploited by members of the Mississippian culture (800 to 1600 CE). Artifacts made from this material are found in archaeological sites throughout the American Midwest and Southeast. It is named for a village and stream near the quarries, Mill Creek, Illinois and Mill Creek, a tributary of the Cache River. The chert was used extensively for the production of utilitarian tools such as hoes and spades, and for polished ceremonial objects such as bifaces, spatulate celts and maces.\n\n\"Chert\" is a siliceous (silica) stone, a variety of quartz similar to flint but more brittle. It naturally occurs as large, flat, elliptically shaped nodules in creek beds, and sometimes as hill-top residuum. The nodules were formed as part of the Ullin limestone formation during the Mississippian geologic period (roughly 359 to 318 million years ago). Mill Creek Chert is a tough, coarse-grained chert, usually brown or gray in color, and occurs as large tabular shaped nodules, a shape used by members of the Mississippian culture for the manufacture of broad bifaces such as hoes, spades, and ceremonial maces and spuds. At the turn of the 20th century, archaeologists began realizing that in the hilly lands of Southern Illinois was the location for the quarrying and production centers -- one of the greatest in prehistoric North America for this type of stone. The sites were located near Mill Creek, Illinois, a village in Union County, located between Jonesboro and Cairo on the Alexander County line. From this collection of sites, known colloquially as the \"Indian Diggings\", Native Americans quarried, worked into tools and blanks, and exported this stone to the wider Mississippian world. The chert found here was one of the major exported raw materials of the Mississippian culture and its distribution and procurement was one of the largest mining and production efforts organized during the Mississippian period. The raw material was dug up in the quarries and then transported to small hamlets for production in hoes, spades and blanks. Archaeologists believe they were then transported to and traded at regional mound centers such as the Hale Site, a palisaded village with a platform mound and a burial mound. From these local sites they were then transported and traded at sites even further afield. These materials were some of the most widely exchanged items during this period, with especially large amounts transported to the American Bottom region. Examples are numerous at Cahokia, where it was especially prized for hoes and spades, but finds have been made in locations as distant as Spiro and Moundville.\n\nThe most common tools made from Mill Creek chert were digging implements. The physical properties of the stone and its ability to absorb repeated use without breaking as often as other stone, made it especially suitable for these types of tools. The Mississippian cultures heavy dependence on maize agriculture and their monumental architecture (platform mounds, moats and embankments) made such tools especially valuable. Three main varieties of Mississippian culture hoes have been found, differentiated by their shape, oval, flared and notched. The oval and flared varieties were hafted to L-shaped wooden handles, such as the one wielded by the Birger figurine. The notched version was probably hafted as a spade. Another advantageous property of the Mill Creek chert was the large size of the nodules, which meant that the corresponding tools could be large. Some hoes were up to in length.\n\nThe other main use for the chert was large ceremonial bifaces, spatulate celts and stone maces. These were ritual objects which often display a high degree of craftmanship. Unlike the hoes and other utilitarian tools, the ritual objects were often ground and polished to a high degree of finish. Many Southeastern Ceremonial Complex artworks depict figures wielding these ceremonial items, especially the sword shaped ceremonial bifaces and maces. As with the hoes, these artifacts could also be quite large, with some of the swordlike bifaces being up to in length. These ritual objects have been found throughout the American Bottom, the Lilbourn Site in New Madrid County, Missouri and as far away as Spiro and Gahagan Mounds, Caddoan Mississippian culture sites in Oklahoma and Louisiana. Although the objects are modeled after actual weapons, such as war clubs, archaeologists believe they were too delicate to function as actual weapons and instead functioned as status symbols.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49509311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49509311", "title": "Mirambika - Free Progress School", "text": "Mirambika - Free Progress School\n\nMirambika - Free Progress School, is an alternative education inspired school that is based on the Integral Philosophy of Sri Aurobindo and The Mother. It is situated at the Sri Aurobindo Ashram campus in New Delhi. The process of learning at Mirambika is based on the view that each individual comes into life with an evolutionary purpose and corresponding potentialities: educating means drawing out this potential. Although the school is not formally affiliated with any board, the students are free to appear for the school leaving examinations conducted by the National Institute of Open Schooling.\n\nIn 1981, Mirambika (Mira, from the name Mira Alfasa of the `Mother,' the disciple of Sri Aurobindo, and Ambika meaning \"mother\" in Sanskrit) was conceived, in an attempt to implement the educational agenda of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother. It started with 57 children and today, after two decades it has managed to hold the number at under 150.\n\n"}
{"id": "710970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=710970", "title": "Modern primitive", "text": "Modern primitive\n\nModern primitives or urban primitives are people in developed and culturally altered post-colonial nations who engage in body modification rituals and practices while making reference or homage to the rite of passage practices in \"primitive cultures\". These practices may include body piercing, tattooing, play piercing, flesh hook suspension, corset training, scarification, branding, and cutting. The motivation for engaging in these varied practices may be personal growth, rite of passage, or spiritual or sexual curiosity.\n\nRoland Loomis, also known as Fakir Musafar, is considered the father of the modern primitive movement. The 1989 RE/Search book \"Modern Primitives\" is largely responsible for the promotion of the concept of modern primitivism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "433054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433054", "title": "Moghol language", "text": "Moghol language\n\nMoghol (or Mogholi; Dari: ) is a possibly extinct Mongolic language once spoken in the region of Herat, Afghanistan, in the villages of Kundur and Karez-i-Mulla. The speakers were the Moghol people, who numbered 2,000 members in the 1970s. They descend from the remnants of Genghis Khan's Mongol army stationed in Afghanistan in the 13th century. \n\nIn the 1970s, when the German scholar Michael Weiers did fieldwork on the language, few people spoke it, most knew it passively and most were older than 40. It is unknown if there are still speakers of the language.\n\nThe language has been strongly influenced by Persian in its phonology, morphology and syntax, causing Weiers to state that it has the appearance of a \"true Inner Asian creole language\".\n\nMoghol grammar shows substantial influence from Persian languages, having borrowed even word classes not found in other Mongolic languages: the parts of speech are nouns, verbs, adjectives, pronouns, prepositions, adverbs and conjunctions. \n\nNouns are marked for number and case. Verbs are marked for person, number, tense-aspect and mode. Adjectives inflect for the comparative and superlative degree with the Persian suffixes -\"tar\" and -\"tariin\", but not for number and case. \n\nMoghol's phonology is influenced by Tajik. It has a system of six vowel qualities with no length contrast: /i e a u o ɔ/.\nWeiers noted down the following poem by the Moghol poet Abd Al-Qadir. \nAnother Moghol poem or song of Abd Al-Qadir written in Arabic alphabet (from Weiers):\n\n"}
{"id": "47963845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47963845", "title": "Music learning theory", "text": "Music learning theory\n\nThe field of music education contains a number of learning theories that specify how students learn music based on behavioral and cognitive psychology.\n\nWhile formal music education has roots going at least as far back as the Hebrews in Egypt or the ancient Greeks, challenges arose as music became more specialized and technically complex after the 5th century BCE in Ancient Greece and as the development of notation shifted music education from training in singing to training in music reading. Educators and theorists such as Odo of Cluny and Guido d'Arezzo in the 10th and 11th centuries explored methods to teach these new developing notational practices. Academic interest in music education lessened by the Renaissance as universities abandoned music as a part of their curriculum in the mid 16th century, while the Protestant Reformation later brought some changes to music education, Martin Luther among other individuals suggesting that music, poetry, and history be added to standard education curriculum. In the 17th century, John Amos Comenius recommended music education for religious purposes and designed a methodology to do so, as Richard Mulcaster encouraged universal education including singing and playing as standard curriculum. By the 19th century the conservatory model became more common outside of Italy alongside a number of choir schools which provided education as well as practical music experience.\n\nMainstream pedagogy and examination of how students learn theory rose to prominence in the 20th century by theorists and educators beginning with Émile Jaques-Dalcroze, Zoltán Kodály, and Carl Orff, and followed by Shinichi Suzuki, Edwin Gordon, and Valeri Brainin among others. Later research into educational learning theories in the 1960s places emphasis on behavioral, cognitive, and constructivist thinking. The Tanglewood Symposium of 1967 and the Music Educators National Conference Goals and Objective Project in 1969 were other early examples of the growing movement of applying modern developments in sequencing curriculum.\n\nBehaviorism examines relationships between the environment and the individual with roots in early 20th century work in the German experimental school. Theories by researchers such as Ivan Pavlov (who introduced classical conditioning), and B.F. Skinner (operant conditioning) looked at how environmental stimulation could impact learning, theorists building on these concepts to make applications to music learning. The research of Clifford Madsen, Robert Duke, Harry Price, and Cornelia Yarbrough build on the operant conditioning model focusing on guiding \"good\" or \"successful\" teaching by analyzing the role of appropriate reinforcement such as praise and feedback on musical discrimination, attitude, and performance. Later studies also examined music itself as a mechanism of reinforcement, such as research by Greer (1981) and Madsen (1981).\n\nCognitive theories of learning, often viewed as the antithesis of behavioral theories, attempt to map how individual learning processes relate to already-familiar knowledge. Gestalt psychology serves as the foundation for many applications to music learning theory.\n\nFred Lerdahl and Ray Jackendoff (1983) theorized on musical grammar based on Chomsky's linguistic theories, arguing that \"acoustic information triggers mental operations that impose order onto input. If there is sufficient exposure to music, musical understanding will occur through enculturation rather than formal training.\"\n\nOther cognitive learning theories are also based on research in early childhood education, motor learning, hemispheric dominance, and information theory.\n\nConstructivist theories of learning, largely developed by Jean Piaget, accept the relation between the individual and the environment as crucial for understanding the process of learning in a more holistic perspective than cognitive and behavioral models. Kurt Lewin, also considered the 'father' of social psychology, used Gestalt theory to develop his field theory\nof learning, a model that emphasizes \"context familiarity as an important descriptor of how individuals learn and process information.\"\n\nModern constructivist applications to music education include research by Roger A. Rideout, Stephen P. Paul, Geraint Wiggins and others.\n\nContemporary music pedagogies emphasize \"sound before sight\", or the idea that in order to develop an understanding of music and music notation, individuals must first become comfortable with listening to, singing, and performing tonal and rhythm patterns before reading and writing music. Modern studies by Luce (1965), McPherson (1993, 1995, 2005), and Bernhard (2004) all suggest a significant positive correlation with playing by ear and the ability to sight read, and experimental research by Haston (2004) and Musco (2006) also suggest that spending classroom time playing by ear does not negatively impact students' abilities to develop music reading skills.\n"}
{"id": "405614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405614", "title": "Peeler", "text": "Peeler\n\nA peeler (potato peeler or vegetable peeler) is a kitchen tool consisting of a slotted metal blade attached to a handle that is used to remove the outer skin or peel of certain vegetables, often potatoes and carrots, and fruits such as apples, pears, etc. A paring knife may also be used to peel vegetables. A peeler differs from a knife in that the blade has a slot cut into it, which is sharpened on the inside edge, while the other side prevents the blade from cutting too far into the vegetable.\n\nThere are numerous designs of peelers used today. Most handheld peelers are either straight or Y-type, while the particular designs vary depending on region and personal preference.\n\nA straight peeler has the blade parallel to the handle, resembling a knife. The blade may be fixed or pivoting. The Lancashire and French \"Econome\" designs contain a fixed blade which does not pivot. The Lancashire often has a round wooden handle wrapped in string, and is often single edged, though there are dual edged variants. The \"Econome\", invented in 1928 by Victor Pouzet, entails a unique blade design that features two slits.\n\nSwivel peelers have the blade mounted on a pivot. Thus the angle of the blade is self-adjusted as pressure is applied, increasing ease of use.\n\nThe Jonas peeler, designed in Sweden in 1953, is a straight design with a pivoting blade attached to the end of an oblong metal loop handle, which is held like a knife. A shaft runs through the length of the handle. The blade has two edges to enable use in either direction, and by either hand. While often copied, the original is still made by Linden Sweden. For many decades, it has been the standard type of peeler in the United States.\n\nA Y peeler or speed peeler has a blade perpendicular to its handle, a design closely resembling a safety razor. It is used with a similar action to a razor, shaving off skin in strips parallel to the handle. Most speed peelers have an 'eye gouger' beside the blade, a loop of metal used to dig out eyes and blemishes from the potato.\n\nA particularly famous example of this variety is the Zena Rex peeler, invented in 1947 by Alfred Neweczerzal of Davos, Switzerland. Considered an icon of Swiss design, it was featured on a 2004 Swiss postage stamp. It has a one piece aluminum handle and a pivoting carbon steel blade with dual edges. The stainless steel handled variant, the Zena Star peeler, was the model popularized by legendary New York City street hawker Joe Ades.\n\nA mechanical apple peeler is a crank operated device that peels apples and optionally cores and slices them in one motion. When the slicer is enabled it cuts a normal apple into a helical shape. It is designed to work on apples but will also peel a number of other fruits and vegetables such as pears, beetroot, potatoes, cucumbers and thick carrots.\n\nIn an industrial setting, potatoes may be peeled using steam jets to loosen the surface skin, followed by a dry abrasion. The process may also involve treatment with lye to soften the outer skin. One type of mechanical peeler, the Magnascrubber, tumbles the potatoes on rollers with rubber studs, which removes the skin. Similar tumbling units with variously sized disc-shaped studs are used for peaches, tomatoes, beets and carrots.\n\n"}
{"id": "57981138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57981138", "title": "Same-roof rule", "text": "Same-roof rule\n\nThe \"same-roof rule\" was a rule of English law that victims of domestic abuse are not entitled to compensation if they lived with the perpetrator prior to 1979. The rule was successfully challenged in the Court of Appeal in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "36045906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36045906", "title": "Self-made man", "text": "Self-made man\n\nA \"self-made man\" (later expanded to include \"self-made women\") is a classic phrase first coined on February 2, 1832 by United States senator Henry Clay who referred to the self-made man in the United States senate, to describe individuals in the manufacturing sector whose success lay within the individuals themselves, not with outside conditions. Benjamin Franklin, one of the Founding Fathers of the United States, has been described as the greatest exemplar of the self-made man. Inspired by Franklin's autobiography, Frederick Douglass developed the concept of the self-made man in a series of lectures that spanned decades starting in 1859. Originally, the term referred to an individual who arises from a poor or otherwise disadvantaged background to eminence in financial, political or other areas by nurturing qualities, such as perseverance and hard work, as opposed to achieving these goals through inherited fortune, family connections, or other privileges. By the mid-1950s, success in the United States generally implied \"business success\".\n\nAccording to the 2017 \"World Ultra Wealth Report\" by research company Wealth-X, self-made individuals, mainly men, have \"largely driven\" global \"wealth creation\" from 1997 through 2017. The report noted that while there are an increasing number of women who are designated as high net worth, most inherited their wealth and only a small percentage sourced their wealth as self-made.\n\nIn the intellectual and cultural history of the United States, the idea of the self-made man as an archetype or cultural ideal has been criticized by some as being a myth or a cult.\n\nBenjamin Franklin, one of the Founding Fathers of the United States, has been described as \"undoubtedly the original self-made man.\" and the greatest exemplar of the \"self-made man\". Both the American Dream and the self-made man concepts are inextricably linked and are rooted in American history. Franklin's autobiography was described by the editor of the 1916 edition, as the \"most remarkable of all the remarkable histories of our self-made men\". His autobiography, which was dedicated to his son William Franklin, with the first chapter based on a 1771 letter to William, was used as illustrative of the journey of the self-made man in the eighteenth century in Colonial United States. Franklin's introduced the archetypal self-made man through his own life story in which in spite of all odds he overcame his low and humble origins and inherited social position—his father was candle-maker—to re-invent himself through self-improvement based on a set of strong moral values such as \"industry, economy, and perseverance\" thereby attaining \"eminence\" in the classic rags to riches narrative. Franklin's maxims as published in his \"Autobiography\" provide others, specifically his own son, with strategies for attaining status in the United States, described as a \"land of unequaled opportunity\" in the last quarter of the 18th century.\n\nIn his 1954 book entitled \"The Self-Made Man in America: The Myth of Rags to Riches\", Irvin G. Wyllie described how on February 2, 1832 Henry Clay had \"coined the phrase 'self-made men'\" during his speech to the United States Senate. Clay used the classic phrase to describe the \"autonomy of our manufacturers ... in behalf of a paternalistic tariff\" and the \"irony has persisted throughout the history of the idea of self-help\".\n\nThe essential doctrine behind the self-made man is that success lies within the person himself and not with outside conditions. Wyllie investigated intellectual history, \"not the history of a great abstraction but the saga of an idea that had power among the people.\" To Wyllie, success in the United States by the mid-1950s, generally implied \"business success.\"\n\nFranklin and Frederick Douglass, describe the \"self-made man in similar language: \"Being possessionless and unencumbered by authority is the necessary beginning state for the potential self-made man. One cannot be “made” by the help of a father, teacher, mentor, etc.…, but must rise by one’s own grit, determination, discipline, and opportunism. The irony is that they have made themselves free from bounds and possessions, in a sense impoverished, so that they can then begin to acquire power and wealth on their own. The key is to acquire those possessions and power without help. The goal, then, is not to become famous or wealthy in the literal sense, but to participate in something precise and mythical.\"\n\nFrederick Douglass developed the concepts in a series of lectures \"Self-Made Men\" from 1859 onward, for example 1895, which were published and archived in \"The Frederick Douglass Papers at the Library of Congress\". In his 1872 lecture Douglass noted that there were \"no such men as self-made men. That term implies an individual independence of the past and present which can never exist...Our best and most valued acquisitions have been obtained either from our contemporaries or from those who have preceded us in the field of thought and discovery. We have all either begged, borrowed or stolen. We have reaped where others have sown, and that which others have strown, we have gathered.\" However, he then provided one of his most detailed descriptions of the self-made man,\n\nF. W. Pine wrote in his introduction of the 1916 publication of \"The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin\", that Franklin's biography provided the \"most remarkable of all the remarkable histories of our self-made men\" with Franklin as the greatest exemplar of the \"self-made man\".\nAbraham Lincoln, Frederick Douglass, P. T. Barnum, Booker T. Washington, and Andrew Carnegie have also been described as self-made men. Both Carnegie and Lee Iacocca acknowledge that their own autobiographies were influenced by Franklin's. In theirs, both Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan described their own origins as somewhat disadvantaged to reflect the narrative of self-made men. Blumenthal began his 2016 biography of Lincoln—\"A Self-Made Man\"—with the phrase, \"I used to be a slave\", referring to Lincoln's claim in 1856 that his \"domineering and uneducated father\" \"exploited\" young Lincoln by \"renting\" him out to \"rural neighbors in Indiana.\" Following his escape from servitude, Lincoln re-invented himself. Lincoln was inspired by Franklin's \"Autobiography\".\n\nIn an 1893 article in a railway magazine, Eugene V. Debs offered Andrew Johnson (18081875), the 17th President of the United States, Henry Wilson (1812–1875) was the 18th Vice President of the United States (1873–75), Daniel Webster(17821852) who served twice as United States Secretary of State, Edward Everett, and Rufus Choate as exemplary nineteenth-century self-made men. Debs contrasted the successful self-made men to those whose \"illiteracy, stupidity, lack of ambition, forever keeps them at the bottom...[who] prefer pool to school, and choose to hammer coal and shovel it into a fire-box rather than employ their leisure in learning what they must know if they expect to rise.\" He calls on them to \"resolve upon a change of habits — renounce follies and vices, obtain elementary books and study.\"\n\nIn John G. Cawelti's 1965 book entitled \"Apostles of the self-made man\", he listed Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Horatio Alger, and John Dewey as individuals \"who either played a major role in shaping the success ideal or were associate with it in the public mind.\"\n\nFrank Giuffrida's parents were Sicilian immigrants who lived in Lawrence, Massachusetts. He began to work before he completed high school to run the family butcher shop when his father died. He opened the Hilltop Steakhouse after he sold the family store. His innovative strategy was to offer large size portions in a large scale restaurant spaces, making up for the extra cost of generous portions by the economy of scale. According to the \"New York Times\", the \"Hilltop exceeded $27 million gross\" in 1987.\n\nIn the field of modern art, Arshile Gorky has been described as a self-made man who rose from \"a dark, rich peasant culture\" to prominence among \"New York modern artists\" through his \"self-taught erudition and aggressive principles.\" In the restaurant business Frank Giuffrida, the owner and manager of the Hilltop Steakhouse which opened in Saugus 1961 and became the biggest restaurant in the United States by the 1980s, is described as self-made man in the \"Slate\" article.\n\nHoratio Alger Jr.'s six-volume Ragged Dick Series which began with the first full-length novel, \"Ragged Dick\" published in May 1868, a \"Bildungsroman\" \"whose name became synonymous with the rags-to-riches narrative\", where young Dick eventually became the successful and distinguished Richard Hunter.\n\nIn F. Scott Fitzgerald's magnum opus The Great Gatsby, describes the downfall of the \"archetypal, if somewhat misguided\" \"socially ambitious self-made man\" Jay Gatsby who rose from \"an obscure and impoverished Midwestern childhood to become a wealthy and sought-after center of Long Island society\". Gatsby contrasts with Ben Franklin and the characters in Horatio Alger Jr. novels, as successful self-made men. His story serves as a cautionary tale regarding the American Dream where \"an unhappy fate is inevitable for the poor and striving individual, and the rich are allowed to continue without penalty their careless treatment of others' lives.\"\n\nAccording to the 2017 \"World Ultra Wealth Report\" by research company Wealth-X, \"wealth creation\" from 1997 through 2017 has been \"driven largely by self-made individuals\", mainly men. According to the report, ultra high-net-worth individuals (UHNWI), those who have a net worth of at least US$30 million, were \"predominantly self-made\" having \"earned their fortunes\". Two-thirds of the UHNWI sourced \"their wealth from their own efforts\" such as \"fruitful business ventures or successful investments.\" Of the 226,450 UHNWIs, 66% were self-made; of the 7,200 UHNW millennials (born between 1980–1995), 66% were self-made; of the 28,985 UHNW women, 45% were self-made; of the 33,290 UHNWI from emerging Asia (excluding Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong), 68% were self-made; and of the 34,961 UHNW Ivy League individuals, 75% were self-made.\n\nIn his 2000 book \"Creating the Modern Man\", cultural historian Tom Pendergast traced the way in which the concept of the self-made man was referenced in men's magazines from 1900 through 1950. Pendergast divided masculinity into only two periods: Victorian, which was \"based on property-ownership and family\", and \"post-Victorian\", which was \"based on a cult of personality, self-improvement, and narcissism\". He described the \"ideal Victorian man\" as a \"property owning man of character who believed in honesty, integrity, self-restraint, and duty to God, country, and family\". The post-Victorian image of the self-made man was crucial to Pendergast's study. He revealed how through magazines men \"were encouraged to form their identities around an ideology of hard work.\"\n\nIn September 2011, Elizabeth Warren challenged the concept of the self-made man in a video that went viral, garnering over one million views on YouTube:\n\n"}
{"id": "38871977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38871977", "title": "Sex differences in humans", "text": "Sex differences in humans\n\nSex differences in humans have been studied in a variety of fields. In humans, biological sex is determined by five factors present at birth: the presence or absence of a Y chromosome, the type of gonads, the sex hormones, the internal reproductive anatomy (such as the uterus), and the external genitalia. Genetic sex is determined solely by the presence or absence of a Y chromosome. \n\nSex differences generally refer to traits that are sexually dimorphic. A subset of such differences is hypothesized to be the product of the evolutionary process of sexual selection.\n\nSex differences in medicine include sex-specific diseases, which are diseases that occur \"only\" in people of one sex; and sex-related diseases, which are diseases that are more usual to one sex, or which manifest differently in each sex. For example, certain autoimmune diseases may occur predominantly in one sex, for unknown reasons. 90% of primary biliary cirrhosis cases are women, whereas primary sclerosing cholangitis is more common in men. Gender-based medicine, also called \"gender medicine\", is the field of medicine that studies the biological and physiological differences between the human sexes and how that affects differences in disease. Traditionally, medical research has mostly been conducted using the male body as the basis for clinical studies. Similar findings are also reported in the sport medicine literature where males typically account for >60% of the individuals studied. The findings of these studies have often been applied across the sexes and healthcare providers have assumed a uniform approach in treating both male and female patients. More recently, medical research has started to understand the importance of taking the sex into account as the symptoms and responses to medical treatment may be very different between sexes.\n\nNeither concept should be confused with sexually transmitted diseases, which are diseases that have a significant probability of transmission through sexual contact.\n\nSex-related illnesses have various causes:\nResearch has found that female doctors may be providing better care than male doctors in the U.S. and also in Canada.\n\nSex differences in human physiology are distinctions of physiological characteristics associated with either male or female humans. These can be of several types, including direct and indirect. Direct being the direct result of differences prescribed by the Y-chromosome, and indirect being a characteristic influenced indirectly (e.g., hormonally) by the Y-chromosome. Sexual dimorphism is a term for the phenotypic difference between males and females of the same species.\n\nDirect sex differences follow a bimodal distribution. Through the process of meiosis and fertilization (with rare exceptions), each individual is created with zero or one Y-chromosome. The complementary result for the X-chromosome follows, either a double or a single X. Therefore, direct sex differences are usually binary in expression (although the deviations in complex biological processes produce a menagerie of exceptions). These include, most conspicuously, male (vs female) gonads.\n\nIndirect sex differences are general differences as quantified by empirical data and statistical analysis. Most differing characteristics will conform to a bell-curve (i.e., normal) distribution which can be broadly described by the mean (peak distribution) and standard deviation (indicator of size of range). Often only the mean or mean difference between sexes is given. This may or may not preclude overlap in distributions. For example, most males are taller and stronger than females, but an individual female could be taller and stronger than an individual male. The extents of these differences vary across societies.\n\nThe most obvious differences between males and females include all the features related to reproductive role, notably the endocrine (hormonal) systems and their physiological and behavioral effects, including gonadal differentiation, internal and external genital and breast differentiation, and differentiation of muscle mass, height, and hair distribution. There are also differences in the structure of specific areas of the brain. For example, on average, the SDN (INAH3 in humans) has been repeatedly found to be considerably larger in males than in females.\n\nResearch on biological sex differences in human psychology investigates cognitive and behavioral differences between men and women. This research employs experimental tests of cognition, which take a variety of forms. Tests focus on possible differences in areas such as IQ, spatial reasoning, aggression, emotion, and brain structure and function.\n\nChromosomal make up is important in human psychology. Women have two X chromosomes while males have an X and Y chromosomal structure. The X chromosome is much more active than Y and it affects behavior. Genetic researchers theorize that the X chromosome may contain a gene responsible for sociability.\n\nMost IQ tests are constructed so that there are no overall score differences between females and males. Areas where differences have been found include verbal and mathematical ability. IQ tests that measure fluid \"g\" and have not been constructed to eliminate sex differences also tend to show that sex differences are either non-existent or negligible. 2008 research found that, for grades 2 to 11, there were no significant gender differences in math skills among the general population. Differences in variability of IQ scores have been observed in studies, with more men falling at the extremes of the spectrum.\n\nBecause social and environmental factors affect brain activity and behavior, where differences are found, it can be difficult for researchers to assess whether or not the differences are innate. Studies on this topic explore the possibility of social influences on how both sexes perform in cognitive and behavioral tests. Stereotypes about differences between men and women have been shown to affect a person's behavior (this is called stereotype threat).\n\nIn his book titled \"Gender, Nature, and Nurture\", psychologist Richard Lippa found that there were large differences in women's and men's preferences for realistic occupations (for example, mechanic or carpenters) and moderate differences in their preferences for social and artistic occupations. His results also found that women tend to be more people-oriented and men more thing-oriented.\n\nHartung & Widiger (1998) found that many kinds of mental illnesses and behavioral problems show gender differences in prevalence and incidence. \"Of the 80 disorders diagnosed in adulthood for which sex ratios are provided, 35 are said to be more common in men than in women (17 of which are substance related or a paraphilia), 31 are said to be more common in women than men, and 14 are said to be equally common in both sexes.\"\n\nDifferences in male and female jealousy can also be observed. While female jealousy is more likely to be inspired by emotional infidelity, male jealousy is most likely to be brought on by sexual infidelity. A clear majority of approximately 62% to 86% of women reported that they would be more bothered by emotional infidelity and 47% to 60% of men reported that they would be more bothered by sexual infidelity.\n\nIn 2005, Janet Shibley Hyde from the University of Wisconsin-Madison introduced the gender similarities hypothesis, which suggests that males and females are similar on most, but not all, psychological variables. The research focused on cognitive variables (for example, reading comprehension, mathematics), communication (for example, talkativeness, facial expressions), social and personality (for example, aggression, sexuality), psychological well-being, and motor behaviors. Using results from a review of 46 meta-analyses, she found that 78% of gender differences were small or close to zero. A few exceptions were some motor behaviors (such as throwing distance) and some aspects of sexuality (such as attitudes about casual sex), which show the largest gender differences. She concludes her article by stating: \"It is time to consider the costs of overinflated claims of gender differences. Arguably, they cause harm in numerous realms, including women’s opportunities in the workplace, couple conflict and communication, and analyses of self-esteem problems among adolescents.\"\n\nHyde also stated elsewhere that \"variations \"within\" genders are greater than variations \"between\" genders.\"\n\nIn 2012 Irina Trofimova reported “middle age – middle sex” phenomenon and suggested that the significant female advantage in verbal fluency and male advantage in physical power fade after age 25 in an asymmetric manner. She pointed out to several other studies on humans and other primates showing a levelling of sex differences in sociability and physical strength. Males and females might indeed have different timings of maturation of physical and verbal systems: according to McGuinness and Pribram (1978) during the first two years of life talking and walking rarely occur simultaneously, which suggests that these two abilities compete for the same set of neural connections, or that one type of neural organization inhibits the other. This coincides with the higher mobility of boys, accompanied by their lower rates of speech development in childhood, in comparison to girls. These different timings in maturation appear as sex differences in early age, and likely level off in later adulthood (Barbu, Cabanes, & Le Maner-Idrissi, 2011). This middle age – middle sex phenomenon might explain why meta-analytic reports and several experimental studies of verbal abilities and dominance using adult participants reported no sex differences.\n\nStatistics have been consistent in reporting that men commit more criminal acts than women. Self-reported delinquent acts are also higher for men than women across many different actions. Many professionals have offered explanations for this sex difference. Some differing explanations include men's evolutionary tendency toward risk and violent behavior, sex differences in activity, social support, and gender inequality.\n\nDespite the difficulty of interpreting them, crime statistics may provide a way to investigate such a relationship from a gender differences perspective. An observable difference in crime rates between men and women might be due to social and cultural factors, crimes going unreported, or to biological factors (for example, testosterone or sociobiological theories). Taking the nature of the crime itself into consideration may also be a factor. Crime can be measured by such data as arrest records, imprisonment rates, and surveys. However, not all crimes are reported or investigated. Moreover, some studies show that men can have an overwhelming bias against reporting themselves to be the victims of a crime (particularly when victimized by a woman), and some studies have argued that men reporting intimate partner violence find disadvantageous biases in law enforcement. Burton et al. (1998) found that low levels of self control are associated with criminal activity.\n\nSometimes and in some places, there are sex differences in educational achievement. This may be caused by sex discrimination in law or culture, or may reflect natural differences in the interests of the sexes.\n\nResearch has been undertaken to examine whether or not there are sex differences in leadership. Until recently, leadership positions have predominantly been held by men. Women were rarely seen in senior leadership positions leading to a lack of data on how they behave in such positions. The two main lines of research contradict one another, the first being that there are significant sex differences in leadership and the second being that gender does not have an effect on leadership.\n\nWomen and men have been surveyed by Gallup each year concerning workplace topics, and when questioned about preferences of a female boss or a male boss, women chose a preference for a male boss 39% of the time, compared to 26% of men displaying preference for a male boss. Only 27% of females would prefer a boss of the same gender. This preference, among both sexes, for male leadership in the workplace has continued unabated for sixty years, according to the survey results.\n\nSex differences in religion can be classified as either \"internal\" or \"external.\" Internal religious issues are studied from the perspective of a given religion, and might include religious beliefs and practices about the roles and rights of men and women in government, education and worship; beliefs about the sex or gender of deities and religious figures; and beliefs about the origin and meaning of human gender. External religious issues can be broadly defined as an examination of a given religion from an outsider's perspective, including possible clashes between religious leaders and laity; and the influence of, and differences between, religious perspectives on social issues. For example, various religious perspectives have either endorsed or condemned alternative family structures, homosexual relationships, and abortion. External religious issues can also be examined from the \"lens of gender\" perspective embraced by some in feminism or critical theory and its offshoots.\n\nSex differences in social capital are differences between men and women in their ability to coordinate actions and achieve their aims through trust, norms and networks. Social capital is often seen as the missing link in development; as social networks facilitate access to resources and protect the commons, while cooperation makes markets work more efficiently. Social capital has been thought of as women's capital as whereas there are gendered barriers to accessing economic capital, women's role in family, and community ensures that they have strong networks. There is potential that the concept can help to bring women's unpaid 'community and household labor', vital to survival and development, to the attention of economists. However, research analyzing social capital from a gendered perspective is rare, and the notable exceptions are very critical.\n\nSex differences in suicide have been shown to be significant; there are highly asymmetric rates of attempted and completed suicide between males and females. The gap, also called the gender paradox of suicidal behavior, can vary significantly between different countries. Statistics indicate that males die much more often by means of suicide than do females, however reported suicide attempts are 3 times more common among females than males. This paradox is partially explained by the methodology, with females more often choosing medication-induced overdosage, and males more often turning to weapons such as firearms or knives.\n\nSex differences in financial decision making are relevant and significant. Numerous studies have found that women tend to be financially more risk-averse than men and hold safer portfolios. A May 3, 2015 article in the Wall Street Journal by Georgette Jasen reported that \"when it comes to investing, men sometimes have their way of doing things, and women have different ways.\" Scholarly research has documented systematic differences in financial decisions such as buying investments versus insurance, donating to ingroups versus outgroups (such as terrorism victims in Iraq versus USA), spending in stores, and the endowment effect-or asking price for goods people have. The majority of these studies are based on the theory of agency-communion developed by David Bakan in 1966; according to this theory, due to factors such as socialization, males are typically more agentic (focus on self, upside potential, aggressiveness) and females typically more communal (focus on others, downside potential, and nurturing). This framework robustly explains many financial decision making outcomes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1252837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252837", "title": "Society for Advancing Philosophical Enquiry and Reflection in Education", "text": "Society for Advancing Philosophical Enquiry and Reflection in Education\n\nThe Society for Advancing Philosophical Enquiry and Reflection in Education (SAPERE) is a charity that promotes Philosophy for Children as an educational methodology in the UK. It is based at the Culham Innovation Centre, Abingdon, England, and its Chair is Elizabeth Jones, QC.\n\nPhilosophy for Children (P4C) is a powerful intervention which has been found through many research studies to have both cognitive and social impact on children and schools. P4C was launched in the UK by SAPERE in 1992 and now reaches 4,000 new teachers and 60-70,000 children a year in UK. P4C is centred on philosophical enquiry, where a trained teacher encourages children to think and reason as a group.\n\nSAPERE's mission is to advance the educational, personal and social development of young people, especially those facing disadvantage, through the promotion of P4C. The organisation's work gained national prominence in 2015 when Durham University School of Education published results of a randomised control trial of P4C with over 3,000 primary school students. The study was sponsored by the Education Endowment Foundation. The study found that P4C advanced attainment for all students and had a particularly strong impact on children from disadvantaged backgrounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "729096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=729096", "title": "Superhero League of Hoboken", "text": "Superhero League of Hoboken\n\nSuperhero League of Hoboken is an adventure and role-playing video game developed and published by Legend Entertainment. Designed by Steve Meretzky, the game combines the superhero, comedy and post-apocalypse genres. It was available on both floppy disk and CD-ROM. It uses 256 colour 2D graphics.\n\nIn the future, the world is ravaged by wars, nuclear disasters and pollution. Mutations become common, resulting to individuals and creatures with mutant superpowers who unite in crime and become supervillains. However other individuals decide to unite their powers for the common good and become superheroes.\n\nThe game is set in the post-apocalyptic New Jersey-New York-Pennsylvania Tri-state area, where the player controls a team of off-beat and often useless superheroes who battle a number of strange enemies, most notably the evil Dr. Entropy, a human jack-in-the-box with plans to bring chaos in the world.\n\nThe missions in the game were typically bizarre and often satirised present-day society.\n\nAnytime the player can choose their off-beat team from a retinue of characters. The off-beat protagonist is the Crimson Tape, whose power is to make organizational charts. His off-beat companions are the Iron Tummy, who can eat any amount of spicy food without suffering intestinal distress, Treader Man who is a fantastic swimmer, the Tropical Oil Man, who defeats villains by giving them high cholesterol, the Oxide Man who can damage mechanical enemies such as robots etc.\n\nEvery character has three stats which help him in battle: Brawn stat determines weapon damage, Brains affects the effectiveness of super powers, and Toughness is the character's defense.\n\nEach character can be taught or achieve secondary superpowers by drinking colored liquids bought or found anywhere in the game. Superpowers mostly are used in combat, although the superpowers of some characters are just a part of the plot (e.g. for solving certain puzzles).\n\nDue to designer Steve Meretzky's heavy freelance workload during development of \"Superhero League of Hoboken\", he contracted a friend to help with the game's programming in the last months of 1993.\n\nAccording to Meretzky, \"Superhero League of Hoboken\" sold only 20,000-25,000 copies, which he considered \"pretty disappointing.\" Trent Ward of \"PC Gamer US\" called the game \"an exciting mix of adventure and role-playing, perfect for the gamer who's more concerned with game play than graphics.\" He stated that it \"isn't a game that will change the face of entertainment for years to come, but in the end it really is pretty good fun.\"\n\nWriting in \"PC Gamer UK\", James Leach summarized \"Superhero League of Hoboken\" as \"good\", but he believed that those who \"don't like the surrealism ... will soon get bored.\"\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\"s August 1994 preview of the game stated that \"Legend has gone beyond the boundaries of graphic adventures and interbred their taditional fare with elements of computer role-playing\". The magazine's Scorpia wrote in October, \"[\"Superhero League of Hoboken\"] is lightweight fare, and as such, may disappoint those looking for challenging puzzles. On the other hand, this zany melange makes up what is the first true comedy CRPG ever, and that alone is worth the price of admission.\" The game was later nominated for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 1994 \"Role-Playing Game of the Year\" award. The editors remarked that \"Superhero League of Hoboken\" \"broke most of the rules\", and that its \"goofy dialogue and storyline, and well-balanced gameplay, make for a wild ride through designer Steve Meretzky's left-of-center imagination.\"\n"}
{"id": "52258852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52258852", "title": "Sydel Silverman", "text": "Sydel Silverman\n\nSydel Finfer Silverman Wolf (born May 20, 1933) is an American anthropologist notable for her work as a researcher, writer, and advocate for the archival preservation of anthropological research. Silverman's early research focused on the study of complex societies and the history of anthropology. This work involved conducting anthropological research in Central Italy, with a focus on traditional agrarian systems, land reform, and festivals in central Italy. She later became active as an administrator, advocating for the study of cultural anthropology and an important force within the community where she organized discussions and symposia around the topic of preserving the anthropological records.\n\nSilverman was born in the Lawndale neighborhood on the west side of Chicago, Illinois, to Joseph Finfer, a rabbi and kosher shohet butcher, and Elizabeth Finfer (née Bassman), a cook. The youngest of seven children, her family was Orthodox Jewish and was very poor. Her parents came from Lithuania when they were adults.\n\nSilverman's interest in anthropology began at an early age, thanks in part to her uncle Hirshel Bassman. With her uncle, Silverman explored ideas such as mysticism and \"oriental religions.\"\n\nIn 1951, Silverman graduated from high school and began her studies at the University of Illinois at Navy Pier as a pre-med student. After two years of study, she applied to the University of Chicago's program in Committee on Human Development. She was admitted through a special exam and began her studies at the University of Chicago in biology, psychology, and sociology-anthropology. In 1957, Silverman received a master's degree from the Committee on Human Development. Her thesis, \"The Female Climacterium\" was published the same year.\n\nIn 1957, Silverman enrolled at the PhD program in Anthropology at Columbia University. Conrad Arensberg's work in the Mediterranean, as well as a personal interest in the region, led Silverman to select Italy as the focus of her dissertation research.\n\nSilverman's dissertation research was focused in the Italian village of Montecastello di Vibio. Her work in this region began in August 1960. Silverman's research was extraordinarily timely. Firstly, her work was one of the initial social-anthropological studies of the region, (Central Italy). In addition, her work from this time is noteworthy as it describes the mezzadria, the traditional agrarian system of the region. Shortly after Silverman's research, the mezzadria was abolished by law.\n\nIn 1963, Silverman received a PhD in Anthropology from Columbia University. Her dissertation was called \"Landlord and peasant in an Umbrian community\". Her dissertation was subsequently used as the basis of her first book, \"Three bells of civilization : the life of an Italian hill town\". This early work remains one of Silverman's most-cited contributions in the academic community. In addition to her book, Silverman's dissertation research was the foundation of several additional journal articles.\n\nSome of Silverman's photography from this period, (specifically 1960–1961), including photographs by her late husband Melvin Silverman can be viewed online.\n\nQueens College (1962–1975)\nAfter completing her PhD, Silverman was hired as a teacher by Queens College in New York City and continued her research in Italy. From 1962–1975 she taught at Queens College. During that time, Silverman's research included a 1967 study of land reform in the South of Italy, and several field seasons in Central Italy focused on a comparative study of competitive regional festivals. From this time, Silverman's publications on Palio of Siena are the most noteworthy. It was at Queens College that Silverman began her career as an administrator when she was elected as Department Chair in 1970.\n\nGraduate Center, CUNY (1975–1986)\nFrom 1975–1986 Silverman was the Executive Officer of the CUNY PhD Program in Anthropology. Under her leadership, the program rose from disorganization and threat of disbandment to being considered one of the top ten anthropology doctoral programs in the United States of America. For a time, Silverman was also the acting Dean of Graduate Studies for CUNY.\n\nWenner-Gren Foundation (1987–1999)\nDuring the next stage of her career, Silverman moved to the Wenner-Gren Foundation where she was appointed to the position of President of the Foundation, serving from 1987–1999. While at Wenner-Gren, Silverman was the spokesperson for the organization, advocating for the field of anthropology as well as overseeing administrative tasks including fellowship and grant funding. Silverman organized twenty-five international symposia during her years at Wenner-Gren. These symposia became the topic of her 2002 book, \"The Beast on the Table\" which offers a rich narrative concerning the living history of anthropology.\n\nOutside of her fieldwork, advocacy, and administrative work, Silverman's other major research interest has been on anthropology itself—particularly the history of anthropology and the practice of anthropology. In addition to what has already been discussed, Silverman's work at Wenner-Gren also included an effort to preserve anthropological records.\n\nSilverman has authored and edited an impressive assortment of books related to anthropology. A selected bibliography is included below, and more detailed descriptions of a number of her books has been provided by Archivist Christy Fic in the Register to the Papers of Sydel Silverman. Silverman's work in this area has spanned the course of her long career, and has continued into her retirement in 1999.\n\nSilverman is President Emerita of the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research and Professor Emerita of Anthropology at the City University of New York.\n\nIn December 1953, Silverman married the painter Mel Silverman. They were married until his death in 1966.\n\nIn 1972, Silverman married anthropologist, Eric Wolf. They were married until his death in 1999.\n\nIn addition to two stepchildren from Wolf's first marriage, the couple have two children, Eve Silverman and film producer, Julie Yorn.\n\nFor a list of articles authored by Silverman, please see Google Scholar at this time.\n\n"}
{"id": "6857244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6857244", "title": "The Merchant Princes", "text": "The Merchant Princes\n\nThe Merchant Princes is a science fantasy and alternate history series by British writer Charles Stross. There are currently eight novels in the series, with another forthcoming. In the series, there exists a number of parallel worlds all of which are on the same geographical Earth, but with different societies at different points of development. Members of a certain bloodline can travel between these worlds along with their immediate possessions. The series largely follows Miriam Beckstein, a technology journalist raised in a familiar \"normal\" Earth, who discovers she was born in a parallel world and is a member of this bloodline. She quickly becomes entangled in political maneuvering and assassination plots with her estranged family. Miriam uses modern technology and investigative journalism to attempt to stay a step ahead.\n\nThe implications of this world-traveling ability are thoroughly explored by the series. The ability to take clothing and held items across allows a phenomenally lucrative import/export trade between worlds; wielders of this power have used it to become wealthy. Invaluable modern technology and medicine can be shipped to the feudal world; illegal drugs can be shipped in a world where the DEA has no power; and packages or messages that would take months to deliver by horseback can simply be mailed via FedEx in the modern world. This power has implications for security and crime as well, since it is now possible to commit a crime then disappear into thin air, and difficult to lock someone up in any effective manner. It also means there is immense social pressure on members of the genetic bloodline to breed with other compatible members to increase the likelihood of the ability manifesting.\n\nThe first six novels in the series were released from 2004 to 2010, and take place in 2002–2004 of an alternate present. The books were later re-released in 2014 as \"A Merchant Princes Omnibus\", a trilogy of three books with each book a combination of two of the original novels: \"The Bloodline Feud\" (books 1 and 2), \"The Traders' War\" (books 3 and 4), and \"The Revolution Trade\" (books 5 and 6). The re-release also included a considerable amount of editing and rewriting by Stross, although no major plot changes. A new trilogy began in 2017 with the release of \"Empire Games\" featuring new characters and updating the year in-setting to 2020.\n\nThe first three novels of the series collectively won the Sidewise Award for Alternate History in 2006.\n\nAccording to Stross, in 2001, he had already sold two books to the publisher Ace Books, \"Singularity Sky\" and \"Iron Sunrise\". Ace also had the right of first refusal to any future science fiction books Stross would publish, and would likely only publish one book of his a year so as not to have his books compete against themselves. His agent advised him that if he wished to sell more books without breach of contract and also to avoid self-cannibalization, he should branch out genres, and encouraged Stross to try his hand at a fantasy series. Stross was hesitant, but gave it a shot. He wanted to be original but not \"too original\" and create something hard to market. He decided his series would be his own spin on both the works of Roger Zelazny's \"The Chronicles of Amber\", which featured a hero with special world-travelling powers, as well as the \"Paratime\" works of H. Beam Piper, which features an organization with the power to basically raid and exploit multiple alternate histories. The main world to be visited would also be a feudal one more out of the Renaissance, as per many other fantasy stories. Stross chose to intentionally limit the scope of \"magical\" powers to solely the world-travelling. Stross was able to sell his new fantasy series to Tor Books, and would later adjust his contract with Ace to specifically exclude \"The Merchant Princes\". This allowed Stross to explain the magic in the series with background sci-fi without worrying about breach of contract, but also satisfying his desire for a consistent explanation of what was \"really\" going on behind the scenes.\n\nOne of the themes that Stross wanted to explicitly explore in the series was that of the development trap, or more generally developmental economics, the issues involved in helping poor and stratified societies to rapidly \"catch up.\" Economist Paul Krugman wrote on the series that Stross noticed that \"the fantasy thought experiment, in which someone brings modern science and technology to a backward society, isn't a fantasy. It is, instead, something that's been tried all across the very real Third World,\" to mixed success at best. While some countries such as South Korea became rich powerhouses, others such as Thailand have only modernized somewhat, and some states like Somalia remain desperately poor, just with access to cell phones and guns. The case of the Gulf oil states such as Saudi Arabia remain a special case, with a fabulously privileged upper class able to be educated abroad and get cutting-edge medical care and the like, but not expanding the economy of their societies beyond the treasure trove that is their wealth from natural resources - which is compared with the Clan's treasure trove from interdimensional trade. Krugman qualified his praise of the economics with a proviso that the books \"are, first and foremost, great fun\" with a \"rollicking plot,\" and not a bland essay about the implications of such trade.\n\nThe Family Trade is the first book of \"The Merchant Princes\", published in 2004. It introduces the reader to technology journalist Miriam Beckstein, who finds herself in a parallel world in which her extended family holds power.\n\nMiriam's adoptive mother Iris gives her a shoebox filled with items that belonged to Miriam's birth mother, a Jane Doe who died mysteriously when Miriam was only a baby. Among other items, Miriam finds a locket. Inside is a design not unlike a Celtic knot, and when she focuses on it, she is transported to a parallel world of a feudal Massachusetts whose technology is mostly in the Dark Ages—except for the men on horses armed with guns, and an upper class that has access to \"imported\" baubles from Miriam's normal Earth.\n\nMiriam quickly finds herself caught up in the feuds of her estranged family, which calls itself the Clan. The Clan has used the genetic ability to travel back and forth between the two worlds to build a lucrative import/export trade, and enrich themselves. However, their founder and progeny were from the feudal world, and thus their mores and beliefs are as well; they are content to merely enrich themselves, and seek to ingratiate themselves to the local nobility, rather than to help the commonfolk. The easy money from their power also complicates reform. Miriam compares them to Saudi princes who visit the United States and Europe, but think in an entirely different way. The Clan's most profitable transport is currently drugs, which bothers Miriam both for ethical reasons, and in her belief that the Clan could do far better. She decides to attempt to reform the business from within, while dodging the various assassination plots hatched against her. She also understands that the drug trade will only last so long; anonymity and carrying large amounts of raw cash are growing steadily more suspicious.\n\nMiriam finds a number of potential allies in her travels. They include Paulie, a research assistant from her former job with some experience in the field of law; Roland, a distant relation, economist, and potential love interest who would also like to be free of the Clan's machinations and prefers the United States to the feudal Gruinmarkt; Duke Angbard Lofstrom, Miriam's uncle and head of security for the Clan, as well as leader of its Boston operations; Olga, a young and flighty noble who helps explain to Miriam the politics and notables of Gruinmarkt; and Briliana and Kara, two lesser noble ladies-in-waiting assigned to Miriam's service in Gruinmarkt's capital of Niejwein.\n\nReviews of the book often note its rather abrupt ending. This is because both it and \"The Hidden Family\" were originally written as one novel, but that novel was then split for brevity's sake, as 600 pages was too long. \"The Family Trade\" placed fifth in the annual Locus Poll for best fantasy novel. \"The Family Trade\" and \"The Hidden Family\" were later released together as \"The Bloodline Feud\", with some editing and adjustments.\nThe Hidden Family is the second book of \"The Merchant Princes\", published in 2005. It completes the story began in \"The Family Trade\" of Miriam Beckstein's attempts to understand and explore the new worlds she has access to. As the title suggests, the existence of families with the power to \"worldwalk\" unknown to the Clan comes of importance in this book, as a shadow war to undermine the Clan continues. The story also includes Miriam's exploration of a third world largely unknown to the Clan, where Massachusetts is part of \"New Britain\" and the British monarchy fled to America; this nation has roughly Edwardian mores and 1930s technology. The existence of this third world also complicates security expectations, as it provides an angle to attack the Clan from locations which might seem safely guarded in both worlds, but are unguarded in the third world.\n\nIn \"The Hidden Family\", Miriam correctly hypothesizes that the Clan civil war that took place around the time she was born was caused and intensified by a third party - a distant branch of the Clan that, while weaker, was unknown and had access to a different world. They were thus able to perform attacks that seemed as if they must come from a rival world-walker within the Clan, but actually came from the Hidden Family. Miriam also believes this third party to be behind the attack on her birth mother. For reasons she can't entirely understand, this branch family considers her existence a threat as well. Miriam also has to contend with elements in the Clan who distrust her. She is warned that in 6 months, a large Clan meeting will occur at Beltaigne, and her rivals - including her own blood grandmother Hildegarde - are likely to motion to have her declared incompetent, which would deny her the funds held in trust that was her inheritance. Lastly, Miriam believes that Duke Lofstram's security forces have a mole working for the Hidden Family, after several security lapses and attempts on her life that seemed to know too much.\n\nBoth to research the hidden family, as well as to build her own personal base of power separate from the alternative of marrying a Clan noble and throwing herself under his faction's protection, most of the book concerns Miriam's efforts in New Britain. Miriam gained access to it via taking a New Britain locket off one of the hidden assassins who attacked her at the end of \"The Family Trade\". There, she ships gold - tightly regulated under mercantilist beliefs that the government requires a large supply of bullion - and allies with the Levellers, dissidents from the Royal government who demand something like the rights secured in the American Revolution in Miriam's world. Erasmus Burgeson, a Leveller quartermaster and pawnshop owner, helps set Miriam up with false identity papers, and Miriam moves on to her next money-making plan. After shipping gold to get some initial funds, she will instead ship ideas. She buys a business and begins to take old patents from the 1900s-1950s unfamiliar to New Britain there, and sell rights to the ideas.\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" in their review said \"Stross continues to mix high and low tech in amusing and surprising ways. However, while giving a gritty SF portrait of the marvels of modern market economics and correcting the too pretty portrait of too many medieval fantasy lands, he sometimes overlooks the realities that constrain both. Still, less historically minded readers can lose themselves in Miriam's attempts to survive the Clan's equally dangerous high-stakes business and social games. Stross weaves a tale worthy of Robert Ludlum or Dan Brown.\" Roland Green reviewing the book for Booklist compared it to the early novels in Roger Zelazny's \"Amber\" series. \"The Hidden Family\" was a finalist for the 2006 Prometheus Award.\n\nThe Clan Corporate is the third book of \"The Merchant Princes\", published in 2006. It is the first part of the series' second story. In \"The Clan Corporate\", Miriam Beckstein runs into trouble. Her experimental corporation in New Britain has been somewhat abandoned with other Clan minders overseeing it, officially due to concerns she might be assassinated, but actually due to political rivalries. The truce between the Clan and the Lee Family of New Britain seems to hold, at least. The Clan still does not trust the upstart; Miriam is largely kept isolated in the first parallel world of Gruinmarkt, a virtual prisoner, and unable to travel unchaperoned. Miriam escapes surveillance for a time and finds out about the \"insurance policy\", a plot by the more modernizing faction of the Clan to create hundreds more world-walkers by offering mass artificial insemination at compromised sperm banks, then attempt to recruit the resulting children. She stirs up enough trouble in her investigations that she is quickly re-imprisoned, her activities even more strongly circumscribed than before.\n\nOn normal Earth, a parallel subplot involves Mike Fleming, a DEA cop who dated Miriam in the past. Mike is pulled into a secret government task force that is investigating the Clan's activities; from the US Government's perspective, the Clan is \"transdimensional narcoterrorists\". This \"Family Trade Organization\" has a key asset in the Clan defector from the first two books who had arrived seeking a witness protection program. The defector's aid helps the government arrest other Clan couriers, seize Clan assets, and begin to compile an English - Hochsprache dictionary. This language study will allow agents to communicate if they can reach Gruinmarkt via captured couriers outfitted with Battle Royale-esque time bombs on their heads. The government is also alarmed to learn that the Clan possesses nuclear weapons, while Mike is concerned by the quasi-legality and loose morality of the operation. The plan goes awry as their defector source begins to grow restless and realizes that he is being held by the military now, not by law enforcement, and witness protection is not forthcoming. In a desperate bid to take a hostage and escape, both the defector and Mike's co-worker Pete are killed.\n\nA trapped Miriam learns her fate: she is to be spared for her indiscretions, but only to be tied down in a political marriage, the only thing that can satisfy the more conservative instincts of the Clan. The Clan seeks to tie itself to the royal family so that it can rule Gruinmarkt. The King's two sons each have problems; the eldest son Egon has a cruel streak and is known as the \"Pervert\", while the youngest son Creon has PKU and is considered an \"Idiot\" after being poisoned with sweetener at a young age. Egon does not bear the recessive world-walker genes from the Clan-member that had managed to sneak into the royal line, while Creon does, thus making the Clan favor Creon. Miriam's great-uncle Henryk, the king's head of spies, explains that if she marries Creon, his affliction would not affect his children, so she could produce potential world-walker Clan members to eventually reign. Miriam is treated by a Clan fertility doctor and reluctantly goes forward with the plan after she is threatened with her ailing mother losing access to medical care, despite her strong aversion to marrying for \"duty\".\n\nIn the final act, Clan allies gather for the banquet to celebrate the forced engagement of Miriam and Creon. Agent Fleming is sent by the government to the banquet as well as part of a plan to make contact with her and turn her into an informant, posing as a captured West Coast courier. All the plans fall to pieces when the anti-Clan Prince Egon launches a coup, correctly fearing he would be denied the succession and potentially murdered had Creon produced an heir. The King and Creon are slain; Miriam escapes to New Britain; and Mike is captured by Miriam's mother Patricia and her ally Olga.\n\nReviews noted that \"The Clan Corporate\" suffers from a similar issue as the first book; it is clearly the first part of a two-part story, and ends on a cliffhanger with its plot threads still hanging.\n\nThe Merchant's War is the fourth book of \"The Merchant Princes\", published in 2007. Protagonist Miriam Beckstein is on the run in the world of New Britain after narrowly escaping an attack in Gruinmarkt. The Clan itself struggles with a war on two fronts: one against Prince Egon's coup forces for control of Gruinmarkt, and another against the secretive US government taskforce investigating the Clan.\n\nIn New London, the equivalent of New York City on Earth and Niejwein in Gruinmarkt, Miriam seeks out one of Erasmus Burgeson's Leveler contact Lady Bishop for aid and shelter. The situation in New Britain is not good: the King has dismissed Parliament, another colonial war rages overseas, and the Treasury is paying its bills by printing money, leading to stagflation. The Levelers wish to create a democratic system, but are wary of moving until the burst of war-fueled government support wears off. Miriam still fears elements of the Clan out to murder her. She reconnects with Erasmus, dodges both Clan agents and the police, recovers her laptop she stowed into Boston, and heads west with Erasmus to meet a noted Leveler intellectual and leader. However, Miriam feels strangely sick, especially while briefly world-walking to Gruinmarkt to evade the police.\n\nDuke Angbard Lofstrom of the Clan charges his agent Briliana d'Ost with recovering Miriam, or, failing that, to ensure she no longer poses a threat to the Clan. The situation is complicated by the fact that Miriam's mother seemingly arranged for her to be artificially inseminated by Prince Creon during her examinations, meaning she is pregnant with the heir to the throne. Pregnant world-walkers cannot safely travel if their child would be a world-walker themselves, though, and Miriam comes from a world where abortion is legal if she were to find out about her condition. Angbard also summons Huw, an MIT grad student, and charges him with investigating both the lockets and exploration of potential new worlds. Experimentation had largely been forbidden for fear of losing valuable couriers before, but with their base in the United States under threat, the Clan needs to seek out alternative options. Huw and his staff discover that the Lee family Locket, while ineffective in Massachusetts and New York in the United States, works in Maryland, and leads to a fourth world in the grip of an Ice Age with polar sheets covering the northern States. The fourth world is seemingly empty, but shows signs of a highly advanced, dead civilization.\n\nOn normal Earth, Mike Fleming recovers from his injuries sustained in the escape from Miriam's wedding banquet. Luckily for him, the infection in his leg is not resistant to penicillin, as overuse of antibiotics has not affected Gruinmarkt's bacteria. While Fleming recovers, the viewpoint character shifts to Colonel Eric Smith, his superior. Eric is considerably more ruthless than Fleming in his viewpoint and morality. He is introduced to government scientists that have figured out how to send tiny cell samples on their own without need for captured Clan couriers; managing attempts to use Mike's contact Olga to negotiate over the Clan's nuclear weapons; and attempting to hunt down (with the help of NIRT) a potential nuclear weapon that is already a ticking time bomb in Boston planted by the defector. In the long term, the government seeks to deal with peak oil via potentially invading alternate-universe Texas.\n\nPrince Egon confounds the Clan with intelligent tactics designed to minimize the Clan's advantages in technology and firepower. He immediately takes to the field, keeping moving with a small detachment; does not dress in royal frippery, but as a normal officer, and keeps body doubles around; and has an elite guard armed with modern Earth weapons such as MP5s. All this renders assassinating him chancy. In battlefield strategy, he splits his forces into small groups which raid Clan manors, execute anyone vaguely related to the Clan, then melt back into the forest. This causes panicked requests for aid from the Clan's lesser allies, spreading the Clan forces thinly; this is compared to the strategic hamlets in the Vietnam War, where similar insurgency tactics were used. After spreading the Clan out, Egon seeks to concentrate the core Clan members so they can be wiped out; this requires a risky concentration of his own forces, but through misdirection and treachery, he and his ally Baron Otto Neuhalle takes the key Hjalmar Palace the Clan held. It is not known if he has a world-walker ally keeping him informed, or he is adeptly using information gained from his grandmother on the Clan's powers and limitations.\n\nThe Family Trade Organization under Colonel Eric Smith eventually finds the planted nuke, as well as tracks down enough Clan members to find them planning to retake the Hjalmar Palace. The Clan is forced to act in haste; they do retake the Palace, but at the cost of being unable to return to the United States easily in that location. Miriam and Erasmus arrive in California, but finds a deadly reception from the British Sheriff who has orders for their arrest. Briliana, Huw, and Huw's assistants sweep in to save Miriam and ambush the police with advanced American weaponry. Miriam is offered a path back to the Clan and to aid the \"progressive\" faction against the conservatives.\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" as well as other reviewers praised the book, although thought the addition of the government subplot meant that the characterization was spread a little too thinly with not enough room to develop all the characters' plots.\n\nThe Revolution Business is the fifth book of \"The Merchant Princes\", published in 2009. The Clan, the world-walking crime syndicate, is still in turmoil after the incapacitation of one of its key leaders and an ongoing crackdown by the US government. Miriam Beckstein returns to the fold, but only to find the Clan itself splintering into factions.\n\nThe Trade of Queens is the sixth book in \"The Merchant Princes\", published in 2010. The Clan has split between conservative and progressive factions and the bitter internal struggle reaches it's peak. Meanwhile, the United States plots its revenge on the Gruinmarkt. The sixth book culminates in a dramatic ending that changes worlds forever.\n\nEmpire Games is the seventh book in the series, published in January 2017. It is the start of a new trilogy in the series. Empire Games begins 17 years after the end of The Trade of Queens. New Britain has made tremendous technological strides under the Clan's technological transfer program, meanwhile the United States has become an increasingly authoritarian and paranoid police state. A new protagonist, Rita is introduced. Rita is the long lost daughter of Miriam Beckstein, given up for adoption while Miriam was still in college. The United States has big plans for Rita and other recessive carriers of the world-walking gene; however, Rita isn't so easily convinced.\n\nDark State is the eighth book in the series, published in January 2018. The New American Commonwealth (formerly: \"New Britain\") faces its first regime change since the revolution. The Commonwealth must juggle tense relations with the United States(US) and former Royalists across the Atlantic plotting a comeback. Meanwhile, Para-time archaeologists from the US inadvertently stir up an ancient threat in the multiverse greater than anything previously imagined.\n\nAccording to Stross, another novel is forthcoming in the series, entitled Invisible Sun.\n\n"}
{"id": "2665996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2665996", "title": "Tuckerization", "text": "Tuckerization\n\nTuckerization (or tuckerism) is the act of using a person's name (and sometimes other characteristics) in an original story as an in-joke. The term is derived from Wilson Tucker, a pioneering American science fiction writer, fan and fanzine editor, who made a practice of using his friends' names for minor characters in his stories. For example, Tucker named a character after Lee Hoffman in his novel \"The Long Loud Silence\", and after Walt Willis in \"Wild Talent\".\n\nH. P. Lovecraft's acquaintance Robert Bloch published \"The Shambler from the Stars\", in the September 1935 \"Weird Tales\"; its unnamed, doomed protagonist is a weird-fiction author closely resembling Lovecraft. As a genial return, Lovecraft's \"The Haunter of the Dark\", published in the December 1936 \"Weird Tales\", introduces Robert Harrison Blake, who shares Bloch's Milwaukee street address and is killed off in an equally horrible fashion. Bloch wrote a third story after Lovecraft's death, \"The Shadow from the Steeple\" (1950), in which the events of the first two stories are further explored.\n\nHarry Harrison's \"To the Stars\" character: \"Old Lundwall, who commands the \"Sverige\", should have retired a decade ago, but he is still the best there is.\" Sam J Lundwall is a well-known Swedish science fiction publisher and writer, as well as the godfather of Harrison's daughter, and \"Sverige\" is the Swedish word for Sweden.\n\nA tuckerization can also be the use of a person's character or personal attributes with a new name as an in-joke, such as Ian Arnstein in S. M. Stirling's \"Island in the Sea of Time\" trilogy, clearly modeled on his good friend Harry Turtledove, albeit an alternate history Turtledove.\n\nIn most cases, tuckerization is used for \"bit parts\" (minor characters), an opportunity for the author to create an homage to a friend or respected colleague. But sometimes an author will attach a friend's name, description, or identifiable characteristics to a major character, and in some novels nearly all the characters represent friends, colleagues, or prominent persons the author knows. When this happens, tuckerization can rise to the level of a roman à clef. Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle have done this at least twice:\n\n\nA similar effect is seen in Niven's collaboration with David Gerrold, \"The Flying Sorcerers\"; all the gods are well known science fiction or media personalities (Ouells = H. G. Wells, Rotn'bair = Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry, etc.).\n\nIn the early 1930s, before Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster created the comic-book superhero \"Superman\", they wrote and illustrated a fanzine story, \"The Reign of the Superman\", featuring a super-powered villain. This story includes one of the very first tuckerizations: a character named after Forrest J Ackerman.\n\nMore recent examples include the many science fiction and military novelists whose names are borrowed in the Axis of Time by John Birmingham, and the Lachlan Fox thriller series by James Clancy Phelan. Philip K. Dick employed tuckerization in his short story \"Waterspider\", in which he sent fellow author Poul Anderson ahead in time to a future where science fiction authors were seen as having precognitive abilities. Fiona Kelleghan, a science fiction critic, has been tuckerized a few times by authors whom she wrote about: in \"Corrupting Dr. Nice\" by John Kessel, in \"Galveston\" by Sean Stewart, in \"Run\" by Douglas E. Winter, twice in the \"WWW Trilogy\" by Robert J. Sawyer (once as a character under her maiden name, \"Feehan\", and once as her real-world self), and in \"Spondulix\" by Paul Di Filippo.\n\nBritish science fiction writer Simon R. Green repeatedly tuckerizes \"Ansible\" editor David Langford, killing him off in various grisly ways and then gleefully notifying \"Ansible\" about the latest killing. Similarly, science fiction fan Joe Buckley, who maintains a website dedicated to detailing information about the publications of Baen Books, has been tuckerized in books by a number of Baen authors, including Eric Flint and David Weber, dying a variety of unpleasant deaths. Weber has also tuckerized various other fans and authors, including Flint, Timothy Zahn, and Jordin Kare, even crewing one small spacecraft with a collection of hearts-playing Chattanooga-based science fiction fans.\n\nIn a lengthy, commutative \"quid pro quo\", novelist Henry Sutton of Norwich, England (b. 1963), tuckerizes David R. Slavitt for his protagonist, \"a genial crime writer trying to boost his sales\", in his novel \"My Criminal World\" (2013). The in-joke is that Slavitt used to use the pseudonym Henry Sutton to write erotic, science fiction and/or thriller and crime novels.\n\nMany science fiction authors auction off tuckerizations at science fiction conventions with the proceeds going to charity.\n\nTuckerization should not be confused with the inclusion of living or deceased real persons in fiction, either as major or minor characters. This form of story is called biographical fiction. Some examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "556939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=556939", "title": "White Ensign", "text": "White Ensign\n\nThe White Ensign, at one time called the St George's Ensign due to the simultaneous existence of a cross-less version of the flag, is an ensign flown on British Royal Navy ships and shore establishments. It consists of a red St George's Cross on a white field with the Union Flag in the upper canton.\n\nThe White Ensign is also flown by yachts of members of the Royal Yacht Squadron and by ships of Trinity House escorting the reigning monarch.\n\nIn addition to the United Kingdom, several other nations have variants of the White Ensign with their own national flags in the canton, with the St George's Cross sometimes being replaced by a naval badge omitting the cross altogether. Yachts of the Royal Irish Yacht Club fly a white ensign with an Irish tricolour in the first quadrant and defaced by the crowned harp from the Heraldic Badge of Ireland. The Flag of the British Antarctic Territory and the Commissioners' flag of the Northern Lighthouse Board place the Union emblem in the first quarter of a white field, omitting the overall red St George's Cross, but are not ensigns for use at sea.\n\nEnglish naval ensigns were first used during the 16th century, and were often striped in green and white (the Tudor colours), but other colours were also used to indicate different squadrons, including blue, red and tawny brown. (These striped ensigns can be seen in use on both English and Spanish warships in contemporary paintings of the 1588 Spanish Armada battles). Later, there was usually a St George's Cross in the upper canton, or sewn across the field as on the modern White Ensign. These striped ensigns continued in use under the Stuart kings: the Naval ensign of 1623 is described as having \"15 horizontal stripes alternately blue, white and yellow with a Cross of St George in the canton\". This design fell out of use after 1630, with the introduction of the Red, White and Blue ensigns. The use of stripes continued in the red and white of both the flag of the Honourable East India Company, adopted in 1600, and of the 1775 Grand Union Flag that formed the basis for the modern flag of the United States of America, and the red, white and blue striped ensign that serves as the flag of Hawaii.\n\nThe first recognisable White Ensign appears to have been in use during the 16th century, consisting of a white field with a broad St George's cross, and a second St. George's cross in the canton. By 1630 the white ensign consisted of simply a white field, with a small St George's cross in the canton, which was consistent with the red and blue ensigns of the time. In 1707, the St. George's cross was reintroduced to the flag as a whole, though not as broad as before, and the Union Flag was placed in the canton. There was also a version of this flag without the overall St George's cross, which appears to have been for use in home waters only, though this flag appears to have fallen out of use by 1720. In 1801, after the Act of Union 1800, the flag was updated to include the new Union Flag in the canton, and so took on the form as used today. The blue field of the Union Flag was darkened at this time at the request of the Admiralty, in the hope that the new flags would not require replacing as often as the previous design, due to fading of the blue. Throughout this period, the proportions of the flags changed. In 1687, the then Secretary of the Admiralty, Samuel Pepys, instructed that flags be of the ratio 11:18 (18 inches long for each breadth, 11 inches at the time). In the early 18th century, the breadth of cloth had been reduced to 10 inches, so the flags became 5:9. In 1837, the breadth was reduced for the final time to 9 inches, giving the current ratio of 1:2.\n\nThroughout this period in the history of the Royal Navy, the White Ensign was one of three ensigns in use, with each one being assigned to one of the three squadrons of the navy, according to its colour (red, white and blue, with red being the most senior and blue the least). Ships flew the colour of ensign corresponding to the squadron to which they were attached, which was in turn determined by the seniority of the admiral under whose command the ship sailed (a rear admiral of the red was senior to a rear admiral of the white).\n\nIn 1864 the Admiralty decided to end the ambiguity caused by the Red Ensign being both a civil ensign and a naval ensign, and the White Ensign was reserved to the Royal Navy; the relevant Order in Council retained the option to use Red or Blue Ensigns in HM Ships if desired.\n\nRoyal Navy ships and submarines wear the White Ensign at all times when underway on the surface. The White Ensign may also be worn on a gaff, and may be shifted to the starboard yardarm when at sea. When alongside, the White Ensign is worn at the stern, with the Union Jack flag flown as a jack at the bow, during daylight hours. \nThe White Ensign is worn at the mastheads when Royal Navy ships are dressed on special occasions such as the Queen's birthday, and may be similarly be worn by foreign warships when in British waters when dressed in honour of a British holiday or when firing a salute to British authorities. The White Ensign may also be worn by the boats of commissioned ships. Yachts of the Royal Yacht Squadron and the Trinity House vessels when escorting the British Monarch (King or Queen of the United Kingdom) are also permitted to wear the White Ensign. \nOn land, the White Ensign is flown at all naval shore establishments (which are commissioned warships), including all Royal Marines establishments. Permission has been granted to some other buildings with naval connections to fly the White Ensign. This includes the St Martin-in-the-Fields Anglican Church in Trafalgar Square, London, which is the parish church of the Admiralty. The Ensign is also displayed on the Cenotaph alongside the Union Jack flag (for the British Army) and the Royal Air Force Ensign, in memory of the dead in the World Wars. Special permission was granted to any individual or body to fly the White Ensign to mark Trafalgar Day and the victory in the naval Battle of Trafalgar on its 201st anniversary in 2006. \n\nThe U.S. Navy destroyer is the only U.S. warship to fly the White Ensign along with the Stars and Stripes to honour her British namesake, the former prime minister. Isambard Kingdom Brunel's , although a merchant ship, appears to have worn (and still bears and flies, preserved in dry dock as a historical exhibit / museum ship) the White Ensign, apparently because its first master (an ex-Royal Navy man) brought it with him.\n\nThe White Ensign was historically used, in its unaltered form, by the naval forces of Australia, Canada and New Zealand, with the Blue Ensign of each of these Dominions (as they were then known) as a jack. In 1965, with the adoption of the Maple Leaf Canadian flag, Canada stopped using the White Ensign on its naval vessels in favour of the new flag. Following a reorganisation of the Canadian armed forces in 1968, a new \"white ensign\" was adopted, incorporating the Canadian flag in the canton and a badge in the fly. This flag, however, was until 2013 not used as the ensign, but as the jack, and also as the basis of the queen's colours of the Royal Canadian Navy. In May 2013 the Canadian \"white ensign\" became the ensign and the national flag the jack. Many Canadian veterans' organisations still use the original White and Blue Ensigns unofficially as symbols of history and heritage.\n\nDuring Australia's involvement in Vietnam, the RAN modified the White Ensign (1967) to create a uniquely Australian ensign which would avoid any confusion with UK vessels; Britain was not involved in the conflict. New Zealand followed suit in 1968. The modified RAN and RNZN White Ensigns incorporate the Union Flag in the first quarter, but with the Southern Cross designs from each national flag (blue stars for the RAN and red stars for the RNZN) replacing St. George's Cross.\n\nSeveral other Commonwealth navies also use naval ensigns with a visual connection to the White Ensign. For example, the Indian Navy and the South African Navy have both retained a cross on a white field, with their own national flag in the canton, in place of the Union Flag. The Royal Indian Marine (Royal Indian Navy from 1934) used the unaltered White Ensign as its ensign from 1928 until 26 January 1950, when India became a republic within the Commonwealth. After that date, the RIN became the Indian Navy and the Union Jack in the canton was replaced with the Indian Tricolour. Apart from a brief period from 2001–2004, the Indian Navy has retained its variant of the White Ensign with one minor modification: the addition of the Lion Capital of Asoka crest in gold at the centre of the cross. Effective from 15 August 2014, the Indian national motto \"Satyameva Jayate\" (\"Truth Alone Triumphs\") will be added in gold script below the crest, correcting a long-standing omission.\n\nAside from being flown by the Arleigh Burke class destroyer , the British Naval Ensign is authorised to be used at the memorial on the campus of The Citadel. The White Ensign also flies over the British Cemetery on Ocracoke, North Carolina, which contains the remains of several seamen from , as well as a memorial to the lost naval trawler, which was sunk off the coast of Ocracoke Island in May 1942.\n\nThe Flag of the British Antarctic Territory is a white ensign defaced with the territory's coat of arms. This is the only white ensign in use by a British Overseas Territory.\n\nA White Ensign, without Saint Patrick's Saltire, defaced with a blue lighthouse in the fly, is the Commissioners' flag of the Northern Lighthouse Board. This flag is unique as it uses a pre-1801 Union Flag in the canton.\n\nThe burgee of the Royal Naval Tot Club of Antigua and Barbuda is sometimes misidentified as a White Ensign; the burgee is a white swallowtail pennant (similar to a Royal Navy Commodore's) with the Union Flag is use until 1801 in the upper hoist canton.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th century, steamers of the Furness Railway on Lake Windemere flew the white ensign \"as the admiralty only exercised jurisdiction over the high seas\" and \"repeated requests from the admiralty to desist were met with polite refusals\"\n\nThe Bahamas uses a variant of its white ensign, with a blue cross instead of the red Cross of St George found on the military ensign, as a government and 'non combatant' ensign, serving a similar purpose to the UK's Blue Ensign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149837", "title": "William Lloyd Garrison", "text": "William Lloyd Garrison\n\nWilliam Lloyd Garrison (December , 1805 – May 23, 1879) \nwas a prominent American abolitionist, journalist, suffragist, and social reformer. He is best known as the editor of the abolitionist newspaper \"The Liberator\", which he founded with Isaac Knapp in 1831 and published in Massachusetts until slavery was abolished by Constitutional amendment after the American Civil War. He was one of the founders of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and promoted \"immediate emancipation\" of slaves in the United States.\n\nBorn in Newburyport, Massachusetts, Garrison began his newspaper career as an apprentice compositor for the \"Newburyport Herald.\" He became involved in the anti-slavery movement in the 1820s, and over time he rejected both the American Colonization Society and the gradualist views of most others involved in the movement. Garrison co-founded \"The Liberator\" to espouse his abolitionist views, and in 1832 he organized the New-England Anti-Slavery Society. This society expanded into the American Anti-Slavery Society, which espoused the position that slavery should be immediately abolished. Garrison also emerged as a leading advocate of women's rights, which prompted a split in the abolitionist community. In the 1870s, Garrison became a prominent voice for the women's suffrage movement.\n\nGarrison was born on December 10, 1805, in Newburyport, Massachusetts, the son of immigrants from the British colony of New Brunswick, in present-day Canada. Under An Act for the relief of sick and disabled seamen, Abijah Garrison, a merchant sailing pilot and master, had obtained American papers and moved his family to Newburyport in 1806. The U.S. Embargo Act of 1807, intended to injure Great Britain, caused a decline in American commercial shipping. The elder Garrison became unemployed and deserted the family in 1808. Garrison's mother was Frances Maria Lloyd, reported to have been tall, charming, and of a strong religious character. She started referring to their son William as Lloyd, his middle name, to preserve her family name. She died in 1823, in the city of Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nGarrison sold home-made lemonade and candy as a youth, and also delivered wood to help support the family. In 1818, at 13, Garrison began working as an apprentice compositor for the \"Newburyport Herald.\" He soon began writing articles, often under the pseudonym \"Aristides.\" Aristides was an Athenian statesman and general nicknamed \"the Just.\" After his apprenticeship ended, Garrison and a young printer named Isaac Knapp bought their own newspaper in 1826, the short-lived \"Free Press\". One of their regular contributors was poet and abolitionist John Greenleaf Whittier. In this early work as a small town newspaper writer, Garrison acquired skills he would later use as a nationally known writer, speaker and newspaper publisher. In 1828, he was appointed editor of the \"National Philanthropist\" in Boston, Massachusetts, the first American journal to promote legally-mandated temperance.\n\nAt the age of 25, Garrison joined the anti-slavery movement, later crediting the 1826 book of Presbyterian Reverend John Rankin, \"Letters on Slavery\", for attracting him to the cause. For a brief time he became associated with the American Colonization Society, an organization that promoted the resettlement of free blacks to a territory (now known as Liberia) on the west coast of Africa. Although some members of the society encouraged granting freedom to slaves, others considered relocation a means to reduce the number of already free blacks in the United States. Southern members thought reducing the threat of free blacks in society would help preserve the institution of slavery. By late 1829–1830, \"Garrison rejected colonization, publicly apologized for his error, and then, as was typical of him, he censured all who were committed to it.\"\n\nGarrison began writing for and became co-editor with Benjamin Lundy of the Quaker newspaper \"Genius of Universal Emancipation\" in Baltimore, Maryland. With his experience as a printer and newspaper editor, Garrison changed the layout of the paper and handled other operation issues. Lundy was freed to spend more time touring as an anti-slavery speaker. Garrison initially shared Lundy's gradualist views, but while working for the \"Genius\", he became convinced of the need to demand immediate and complete emancipation. Lundy and Garrison continued to work together on the paper in spite of their differing views. Each signed his own editorials.\n\nGarrison introduced \"The Black List,\" a column devoted to printing short reports of \"the barbarities of slavery—kidnappings, whippings, murders.\" For instance, Garrison reported that Francis Todd, a shipper from Garrison's home town of Newburyport, Massachusetts, was involved in the domestic slave trade, and that he had recently had slaves shipped from Baltimore to New Orleans in the coastwise trade on his ship the \"Francis\". (This was thoroughly legal, although the US had in 1807 prohibited the international slave trade from Africa.)\n\nTodd filed a suit for libel in Maryland against both Garrison and Lundy; he thought to gain support from pro-slavery courts. The state of Maryland also brought criminal charges against Garrison, quickly finding him guilty and ordering him to pay a fine of $50 and court costs. (Charges against Lundy were dropped on the grounds that he had been traveling when the story was printed.) Garrison refused to pay the fine and was sentenced to a jail term of six months. He was released after seven weeks when the anti-slavery philanthropist Arthur Tappan donated the money for the fine. Garrison decided to leave Baltimore, and he and Lundy amicably agreed to part ways.\n\nIn 1831, Garrison returned to New England, where he co-founded a weekly anti-slavery newspaper, \"The Liberator\", with his friend Isaac Knapp. In the first issue, Garrison stated:\n\nPaid subscription to \"The Liberator\" was always smaller than its circulation. In 1834 it had two thousand subscribers, three-fourths of whom were blacks. Benefactors paid to have the newspaper distributed to influential statesmen and public officials. Although Garrison rejected physical force as a means for ending slavery, his critics took his demand for immediate emancipation literally. Some believed he advocated the sudden and total freeing of all slaves, and considered him a dangerous fanatic. Nat Turner's slave rebellion in Virginia just seven months after \"The Liberator\" started publication fueled the outcry against Garrison in the South. A North Carolina grand jury indicted him for distributing incendiary material, and the Georgia Legislature offered a $5,000 reward for his capture and conveyance to the state for trial.\n\nAmong the anti-slavery essays and poems which Garrison published in \"The Liberator\" was an article in 1856 by a 14-year-old Anna Dickinson.\n\n\"The Liberator\" gradually gained a large following in the northern states. By 1861 it had subscribers across the North, as well as in England, Scotland, and Canada. It was received in state legislatures, governor's mansions, Congress, and the White House. After the end of the Civil War and the abolition of slavery by the Thirteenth Amendment, Garrison published the last issue (number 1,820) on December 29, 1865, writing a \"Valedictory\" column. After reviewing his long career in journalism and the cause of abolitionism, he wrote:\n\nIn addition to publishing \"The Liberator\", Garrison spearheaded the organization of a new movement to demand the total abolition of slavery in the United States. By January 1832, he had attracted enough followers to organize the New-England Anti-Slavery Society which, by the following summer, had dozens of affiliates and several thousand members. In December 1833, abolitionists from ten states founded the American Anti-Slavery Society (AAS). Although the New England society reorganized in 1835 as the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, enabling state societies to form in the other New England states, it remained the hub of anti-slavery agitation throughout the antebellum period. Many affiliates were organized by women who responded to Garrison's appeals for women to take active part in the abolition movement. The largest of these was the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society, which raised funds to support The Liberator, publish anti-slavery pamphlets, and conduct anti-slavery petition drives.\n\nThe purpose of the American Anti-Slavery Society was the conversion of all Americans to the philosophy that \"Slaveholding is a heinous crime in the sight of God\" and that \"duty, safety, and best interests of all concerned, require its \"immediate abandonment\" without expatriation.\"\n\nMeanwhile, on September 4, 1834, Garrison married Helen Eliza Benson (1811–1876), the daughter of a retired abolitionist merchant. The couple had five sons and two daughters, of whom a son and a daughter died as children.\nThe threat posed by anti-slavery organizations and their activity drew violent reaction from slave interests in both the Southern and Northern states, with mobs breaking up anti-slavery meetings, assaulting lecturers, ransacking anti-slavery offices, burning postal sacks of anti-slavery pamphlets, and destroying anti-slavery presses. Healthy bounties were offered in Southern states for the capture of Garrison, \"dead or alive\".\n\nOn October 21, 1835, a mob of several thousand surrounded the building housing Boston's anti-slavery offices, where Garrison had agreed to address a meeting of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society after the fiery British abolitionist George Thompson was unable to keep his engagement with them. Mayor Theodore Lyman persuaded the women to leave the building, but when the mob learned that Thompson was not within, they began yelling for Garrison. Lyman was a staunch anti-abolitionist but nonetheless wanted to avoid bloodshed and suggested Garrison escape by a back window while Lyman told the crowd Garrison was gone. The mob spotted and apprehended Garrison, tied a rope around his waist, and pulled him through the streets towards Boston Common, calling for tar and feathers. The mayor intervened and had Garrison arrested and rushed off to the Leverett Street Jail for his own protection.\n\nGarrison's appeal for women's mass petitioning against slavery sparked a controversy over women's right to a political voice. In 1837, women abolitionists from seven states convened in New York to expand their petitioning efforts and repudiate the social mores that proscribed their participation in public affairs. That summer, sisters Angelina Grimké and Sarah Grimké responded to the controversy roused by their public speaking with treatises on woman's rights – Angelina's \"Letters to Catherine E. Beecher\" and Sarah's \"Letters on the Equality of the Sexes and Condition of Woman\" – and Garrison published them first in \"The Liberator\" and then in book form. Instead of surrendering to appeals for him to retreat on the \"woman question,\" Garrison announced in December 1837 that \"The Liberator\" would support \"the rights of woman to their utmost extent.\" The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society appointed women to leadership positions and hired Abby Kelley as the first of several female field agents.\n\nIn 1840, Garrison's promotion of woman's rights within the anti-slavery movement was one of the issues that caused some abolitionists, including New York brothers Arthur Tappan and Lewis Tappan, to leave the AAS and form the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, which did not admit women. In June of that same year, when the World Anti-Slavery Convention meeting in London refused to seat America's women delegates: Garrison, Charles Lenox Remond, Nathaniel P. Rogers and William Adams refused to take their seat as delegates as well, and joined the women in the spectator's gallery. The controversy introduced the woman's rights question not only to England, but also to future woman's rights leader Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who attended the convention as a spectator accompanying her delegate-husband, Henry B. Stanton.\n\nAlthough Henry Stanton had cooperated in the Tappans' failed attempt to wrest leadership of the AAS from Garrison, he was part of another group of abolitionists unhappy with Garrison's influence—those who disagreed with Garrison's insistence that because the U.S. Constitution was a pro-slavery document, abolitionists should not participate in politics and government. A growing number of abolitionists—including Stanton, Gerrit Smith, Charles Turner Torrey, and Amos A. Phelps—wanted to form an anti-slavery political party and seek a political solution to slavery. They withdrew from the AAS in 1840, formed the Liberty Party, and nominated James G. Birney for president. By the end of 1840, Garrison announced the formation of a third new organization, the Friends of Universal Reform, with sponsors and founding members including prominent reformers Maria Chapman, Abby Kelley Foster, Oliver Johnson, and Amos Bronson Alcott (father of Louisa May Alcott).\n\nAlthough some members of the Liberty Party supported woman's rights, including women's suffrage, Garrison's \"Liberator\" continued to be the leading advocate of woman's rights throughout the 1840s, publishing editorials, speeches, legislative reports and other developments concerning the subject. In February 1849, Garrison's name headed the women's suffrage petition sent to the Massachusetts legislature, the first such petition sent to any American legislature, and he supported the subsequent annual suffrage petition campaigns organized by Lucy Stone and Wendell Phillips. Garrison took a leading role in the May 30, 1850, meeting that called the first National Woman's Rights Convention, saying in his address to that meeting that the new movement should make securing the ballot to women its primary goal. At the national convention held in Worcester the following October, Garrison was appointed to the National Woman's Rights Central Committee, which served as the movement's executive committee, charged with carrying out programs adopted by the conventions, raising funds, printing proceedings and tracts, and organizing annual conventions.\n\nIn 1849, Garrison became involved in one of Boston's most notable trials of the time. Washington Goode, a black seaman had been sentenced to death for the murder of a fellow black mariner, Thomas Harding. In \"The Liberator\" Garrison argued that the verdict relied on \"circumstantial evidence of the most flimsy character ...\" and feared that the determination of the government to uphold its decision to execute Goode was based on race. As all other death sentences since 1836 in Boston had been commuted, Garrison concluded that Goode would be the last person executed in Boston for a capital offense writing, \"Let it not be said that the last man Massachusetts bore to hang was a colored man!\" Despite the efforts of Garrison and many other prominent figures of the time, Goode was hanged on May 25, 1849.\n\nGarrison became famous as one of the most articulate, as well as most radical, opponents of slavery. His approach to emancipation stressed \"moral suasion,\" non-violence, and passive resistance. While some other abolitionists of the time favored gradual emancipation, Garrison argued for \"immediate and complete emancipation of all slaves.\" On July 4, 1854, he publicly burned a copy of the Constitution, condemning it as \"a Covenant with Death, an Agreement with Hell,\" referring to the compromise that had written slavery into the Constitution. In 1855, his eight-year alliance with Frederick Douglass disintegrated when Douglass converted to political abolitionists' view that the document could be interpreted as being anti-slavery.\nGarrison's outspoken anti-slavery views repeatedly put him in danger. Besides his imprisonment in Baltimore and the price placed on his head by the State of Georgia, he was the object of vituperation and frequent death threats. On the eve of the Civil War, a sermon preached in a Universalist chapel in Brooklyn, New York, denounced \"the blood thirsty sentiments of Garrison and his school; and did not wonder that the feeling of the South was exasperated, taking as they did, the insane and bloody ravings of the Garrisonian traitors for the fairly expressed opinions of the North.\"\n\nAfter the United States abolished slavery, Garrison announced in May 1865 that he would resign the presidency of the American Anti-Slavery Society and offered a resolution declaring victory in the struggle against slavery and dissolving the society. The resolution prompted sharp debate, however, led by his long-time friend Wendell Phillips, who argued that the mission of the AAS was not fully completed until black Southerners gained full political and civil equality. Garrison maintained that while complete civil equality was vitally important, the special task of the AAS was at an end, and that the new task would best be handled by new organizations and new leadership. With his long-time allies deeply divided, however, he was unable to muster the support he needed to carry the resolution, and it was defeated 118–48. Declaring that his \"vocation as an Abolitionist, thank God, has ended,\" Garrison resigned the presidency and declined an appeal to continue. Returning home to Boston, he withdrew completely from the AAS and ended publication of \"The Liberator\" at the end of 1865. With Wendell Phillips at its head, the AAS continued to operate for five more years, until ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution granted voting rights to black men. (According to Henry Mayer, Garrison was hurt by the rejection, and remained peeved for years; \"as the cycle came around, always managed to tell someone that he was \"not\" going to the next set of [AAS] meetings\" [594].)\nAfter his withdrawal from AAS and ending \"The Liberator\", Garrison continued to participate in public reform movements. He supported the causes of civil rights for blacks and woman's rights, particularly the campaign for suffrage. He contributed columns on Reconstruction and civil rights for \"The Independent\" and \"The Boston Journal\".\n\nIn 1870, he became an associate editor of the women's suffrage newspaper, the \"Woman's Journal\", along with Mary Livermore, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Lucy Stone, and Henry B. Blackwell. He served as president of both the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA) and the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association. He was a major figure in New England's woman suffrage campaigns during the 1870s.\n\nIn 1873, he healed his long estrangements from Frederick Douglass and Wendell Phillips, affectionately reuniting with them on the platform at an AWSA rally organized by Abby Kelly Foster and Lucy Stone on the one hundredth anniversary of the Boston Tea Party. When Charles Sumner died in 1874, some Republicans suggested Garrison as a possible successor to his Senate seat; Garrison declined on grounds of his moral opposition to taking office.\n\nGarrison spent more time at home with his family. He wrote weekly letters to his children and cared for his increasingly ill wife, Helen. She had suffered a small stroke on December 30, 1863, and was increasingly confined to the house. Helen died on January 25, 1876, after a severe cold worsened into pneumonia. A quiet funeral was held in the Garrison home. Garrison, overcome with grief and confined to his bedroom with a fever and severe bronchitis, was unable to join the service. Wendell Phillips gave a eulogy and many of Garrison's old abolitionist friends joined him upstairs to offer their private condolences.\n\nGarrison recovered slowly from the loss of his wife and began to attend Spiritualist circles in the hope of communicating with Helen. Garrison last visited England in 1877, where he met with George Thompson and other longtime friends from the British abolitionist movement.\nSuffering from kidney disease, Garrison continued to weaken during April 1879. He moved to New York to live with his daughter Fanny's family. In late May, his condition worsened, and his five surviving children rushed to join him. Fanny asked if he would enjoy singing some hymns. Although he was unable to sing, his children sang favorite hymns while he beat time with his hands and feet. On May 24, 1879, Garrison lost consciousness and died just before midnight.\n\nGarrison was buried in the Forest Hills Cemetery in Boston's Jamaica Plain neighborhood on May 28, 1879. At the public memorial service, eulogies were given by Theodore Dwight Weld and Wendell Phillips. Eight abolitionist friends, both white and black, served as his pallbearers. Flags were flown at half-staff all across Boston. Frederick Douglass, then employed as a United States Marshal, spoke in memory of Garrison at a memorial service in a church in Washington, D.C., saying, \"It was the glory of this man that he could stand alone with the truth, and calmly await the result.\"\n\nGarrison's namesake son, William Lloyd Garrison (1838–1909), was a prominent advocate of the single tax, free trade, women's suffrage, and of the repeal of the Chinese Exclusion Act. His second son, Wendell Phillips Garrison (1840–1907), was literary editor of \"The Nation\" from 1865 to 1906. Two other sons (George Thompson Garrison and Francis Jackson Garrison, his biographer and named after abolitionist Francis Jackson) and a daughter, Helen Frances Garrison (who married Henry Villard), survived him. Fanny's son Oswald Garrison Villard became a prominent journalist and a founding member of the NAACP.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36665874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36665874", "title": "Working People's Art Class", "text": "Working People's Art Class\n\nThe Working People's Art Class (WPAC), founded by Edward Rupert Burrowes in 1945, was the first established art institution in the colony of British Guiana, now the country of Guyana.\nA number of well-known Guyanese artists were taught at the WPAC.\n\nBurrowes started to lead Working People's Free Art Classes in 1945 and formally founded the WPAC organization in 1948.\nThe name drew the attention of the British authorities, who were concerned that the classes might be a front for a communist organization. They sent two detectives to join the class and see what was going on. One of them, Inspector John Campbell, became interested in drawing and painting and continued with the WPAC, later participating in exhibitions.\nBy 1947, there were 86 students enrolled in the free WPAC, which had started in Georgetown in April that year.\n\nThe WPAC was an institution in which common working people could develop their artistic skills.\nAs well as teaching the people art history and appreciation, the WPAC contributed to developing a national consciousness, an awareness of the country and its peoples.\nIt was funded by businesses and institutions.\nBurrowes was the only teacher, and gave classes on traditional Western artistic methods to anyone who chose to attend in whatever space he could find.\nThe British Council became interested in the WPAC, and provided help in the form of ₤50 worth of art materials annually, materials that could not otherwise be obtained in British Guiana, as it was then.\nThe WPAC put on annual shows.\nIn 1954 its exhibition of paintings and sculpture had contributions from the WPAC and from the Guianese Art Group, the Friday Art Club and the Young Contemporaries' Art Club, as well as from one or two individual artists.\nThe WPAC continued until 1956.\n\nThe WPAC helped a number of Guyanese artists at the start of their career.\nIn 1947 Donald Locke attended a Working People's Art Class taught in Georgetown by Burrowes, which inspired him to take up painting.\nLocke later contributed regularly to WPAC exhibitions, and became a secretary or assistant to Burrowes in the early 1950s.\nStanley Greaves was another Guyanese artist who attended the WPAC as a teenager and later became well known.\nEmerson Samuels was another artist who studied at the WPAC.\nThe painter Aubrey Williams studied with E. R. Burrowes in the Working People's Art Class after returning from a two-year term with the Agriculture department in which he had lived with indigenous people in the jungle.\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "16990537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16990537", "title": "Zemiology", "text": "Zemiology\n\nZemiology is the study of social harms. Zemiology gets its name from the Greek word ζημία \"zēmía\", meaning \"harm\".\nIt originated as a critique of criminology and the notion of crime. In contrast with \"individual-based harms\" such as theft, the notion of social harm or social injury incorporates harms caused by nation states and corporations. These ideas have received increased attention from critical academics such as neo-Marxists and feminists who have sought to create an independent field of study, separate from criminology, that studies the harms that affect individuals' lives that are not considered to be criminal or are rarely criminalised such as mortgage misselling, poverty and unemployment.\n\nHillyard and Tombs outline a number of criticisms of criminology and crime:\n\nHillyard and Tombs argue that the criminal justice system fails to protect people from criminal harms whilst inflicting serious harms on those people who travel through the system. These harms often outweigh the harm caused by the original crime. However, current criminal justice policy within countries like the UK continues to champion the use of prison as a means to deal with social problems. In 2002, the UK prison population was 80,144. The population rate, per hundred thousand of national population, for England and Wales was 139. These figures are high compared to the rest of Europe in terms of overall numbers; however, looking at prison population rate, they are similar to many other countries in Europe. Italy, Spain, France, Romania and Belarus each had prison populations of around 50,000 in 2001–2002. Only Poland and the Ukraine had prison populations higher than that of the UK, at 82,173 and 198,885 respectively.\nThese rising prison numbers however do not necessarily reflect a rise in crime. Overall, since 1995 there has been a reduction in total crime. The British Crime Survey has shown that the overall crime experienced by households has declined by 42% which is the equivalent to eight million fewer crimes. More specifically, domestic burglary has fallen by 59%, vehicle theft has decreased by 61% and violent crimes have experienced a reduction of 41%. According to these figures it appears that the reason for the growth in the prison population is not due to a rise in crime.\nIn spite of the faith demonstrated by politicians in the criminal justice system, it would appear that the criminal justice system seems to fail in its own terms. The probability of a criminal re-offending is determined by external factors including having a stable family life, a home and a job. All of these are arguably weakened by a prison sentence. The Social Exclusion Unit has demonstrated that prison fails to rehabilitate on a dramatic scale with two thirds of prisoners re-offending within 2 years of release. However, a prison place costs £37,000 per annum.\n\nConcern has been expressed that the prison is being used as a mechanism to deal with social problems as spending on welfare benefits and services has decreased. Downes and Hansen argue that a country's welfare spending and prison population are inversely related, meaning that a country with high spending on welfare has a lower prison population and vice versa. Portugal, for example, has 147 prisoners per 100,000 people but spend only 18.2% of their GDP on welfare. This is quite a contrast to Scandinavian states, such as Sweden, whose prison population is 60 prisoners per 100,000 people as they spend 31% of GDP on welfare. During the 1990s the UK, whose spending on welfare is 20.8% GDP, saw an increase of 40% in the number of custodial sentences passed out. This is arguably reflected in the composition of the UK's prison population. For example, almost half of the prison population in Britain has been diagnosed with 3 or more mental disorders. Of those prisoners diagnosed with a mental health problem: 50% of these prisoners are not registered with a GP; 42% of men with a psychotic disorder received no emotional or mental support in the previous year before imprisonment; 79% of men with a personality disorder received no emotional or mental support in the previous year before imprisonment; 46% have been arrested having never received any benefits despite their disorder; over a third are sleeping rough and over two thirds are not in education or training.\n\nThe zemiological or social harm approach attempts to broaden public and sociological focus to vicissitudes of daily life in capitalist society; some of these harms, they argue, are more harmful than those caused by crime. Approximately 1,000 people a year are murdered in England and Wales. However, there are a number of events that cause large amounts of physical harm and even death, which are rarely considered crime or criminalised. In the UK there are around 40,000 serious road accidents in the UK every year. This is equivalent to a jumbo jet crashing every month. In 2002 3,431 people were killed on Britain’s roads and 35,976 seriously injured. In 2002, 81,562 cases of food poisoning were reported and the majority of these cases are believed to have been contracted in food prepared outside the home. In the UK, The Labour Force Survey found that 228 people were killed while working due to a work-related incident and 2.2 million people with illnesses in the UK believed their condition was made worse by their past or current job. A growing phenomenon affecting workers' health is stress. A report issued by the British Health and Safety Executive found that 16% of workers were working over 60 hours a week. Similarly, the Department of Trade and Industry found that 19% of men visited doctors for stress related problems, with that figure rising to 23% in men over 40. Also, the Trade Union Congress found 10% of work-based personal injury cases were stress-related. According to the Department of Health there were 3500 deaths occurring from the effects of sulphur dioxide and 8100 deaths were caused due to particulate matter in the air in July 2002.\n\nEqually, the financial costs theft and burglary are outweighed when one considers wider financial harms. For example, thousands of homeowners have been sold endowment mortgages without any likely means of repaying them. More than 3 million homeowners face the likelihood that their endowment policy, when it matures, will be worth too little to pay off the mortgage. 60% of endowment mortgages are not on track to cover the original debt and 39,000 complainants looking to receive approximately £126 million.\nToday in Britain 9.5 million people cannot afford adequate housing conditions, 8 million cannot afford one or more essential good, 7.5 million people do not have enough money to attend social activities and 4 million do not receive proper nutrition.\n\nWhilst the UK and other liberal democracies spend large resources on their respective criminal justice systems, other regulatory and policy responses remain less well funded considering the extent and the serious nature of the harms they seek to prevent. This is illustrated through the following case examples.\n\nThe minimum wage was introduced in 1998 to combat the problem of in-work poverty and inequality. The act established for the first time in the UK a minimum hourly rate of pay. In order, to guarantee that workers received the wage an enforcement structure was created using two methods. These were worker-led Industrial Tribunal claims and the minimum wage enforcement teams (Inland Revenue). Few workers have used the employment tribunals to recover money because many victims of breach of minimum wage are vulnerable, for example, ethnic minorities, youth, uneducated and non-unionsed workers. A more likely channel of action is the minimum wage enforcement teams, which are run by the Inland Revenue. These teams have a number of powers including power of entry into workplaces and seizure of employers' records. In order to enforce these regulations through a ‘pyramid of sanctions’, which include: enforcement order, penalty enforcement and prosecution under criminal law. The enforcement order requests the employer to repay the worker any underpayment. If the employer refuses to comply with this requirement, penalty enforcement is issued which orders the firm to not only repay the worker (s), but to also pay a substantial fine. However, if the employer still refuses payment, as a consequence they will face prosecution under criminal law. This action can, however be seen as ineffective as only two companies have ever been prosecuted for such offences. The low rates of enforcement action are demonstrated below.\n\nNumber of cases of non–compliance and regulatory systems\n\n% of non compliance cases that resulted in sanctions\n\nIt is estimated by the Low Pay Commission that 146,000–219,000 workers are not receiving the wage they are legally entitled too. It has been suggested that the reasons for relate to the limited resources available to the Inland Revenue Enforcement Teams. The Inland Revenue Enforcement Team consists of 16 compliance teams, each with 3 to 8 officers, based in fourteen towns and cities throughout the UK. In 1999 there were 115 Inspectors which meant that a workplace could expect to be inspected once every 30 years.\n\nInequality has grown in countries like the UK since the beginning of the 1980s. It is argued that this growth in inequality has had a series of deleterious and harmful effects. These include children’s life chances, mental health, physical health, crime and social well being. Using the example of physical, numerous studies have demonstrated that those from lower socio economic classes have lower life expectancy. For instance a recent research study that investigated differences in health in the 678 electoral wards of the northern region of England found that death rates were four times as high in the poorest 10 per cent of wards as they were in the richest 10 per cent. In the 1980s more and more households fell into poverty and by the early 1990s one in three children lived below the poverty line.\n\nInequality is a harm that is perceived as an inherent and largely unpreventable feature of our society. Yet a number of academics attribute the current levels of inequality in the UK to a series of policy decisions that have been made over the last 30 years. The reasons for the growing levels of inequality are numerous. The poorest groups in society have seen their income and wealth affected by developments such as the decreasing value of benefits in real terms, the deregulation of labour markets etc., whilst the rich have seen their wealth grow primarily as a result of the changes made in the UK tax system since 1979. In particular, the top rate of income tax was cut by the Thatcher government in the first post-1979 election budget from 83% to 60%. Then it was cut to 40%. Moreover, tax havens have increased and become common place which has enabled wealthy individuals and companies to avoid taxation regimes. In fact, tax consultants Grant Thornton estimated that the UK’s 54 billionaires paid income tax of only £14.7 million in 2006. At least 32 paid no income tax at all. In contrast, according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies, £3.4 billion a year would lift enough families out of poverty to hit Labour’s pledge of halving child poverty by 2010.\n\nIt is estimated that 24,000 lives are prematurely ended due to the effects of air pollution. Moreover, these health consequences are estimated to cost the UK £29,000 per life year lost in \"good\" health, £15,000 per life year lost in \"poor\" health and £1,900–£2,000 per hospital admission. Given the harm caused by air pollution the UK has a poor record in responding to air pollution. The European Union is currently considering prosecuting the British government for breaching air pollution laws. Air pollution near in a number of locations has been recorded at twice the UN's World Health Organization maximum recommended level, which has consequently infringed EU air quality laws. Moreover, the Environment Agency, the UK's principal environmental regulator, has what some may consider to be a poor record of prosecuting infringements of environmental standards. For example, there were 29,627 \"substantiated\" pollution incidents in 2003, of which 1337 were considered serious by the agency. However, in the same year the agency prosecuted 266 companies, 61 resulted in fines over £10,000. The average fine for companies was £8,412, down from £8,622 in 2002. There are approximately 20,000 incidents each year in the UK and around 250 prosecutions, which means there is a one in eighty chance of company being prosecuted for these incidents.\n\nLarge numbers of people each year lose their lives due to injuries and diseases that result from their work. In 2007–08, 229 workers were killed at work, whilst 136,771 other injuries to employees were reported under RIDDOR and 299,000 reportable injuries occurred, according to the Labour Force Survey. In addition, 2.1 million people were suffering from an illness they believed was caused or made worse by their current or past work. It is believed that 2056 people died of asbestos related diseases contracted through their work activities. Despite these large scale harms, the principal regulatory in the UK, the Health and Safety Executive, has faced continuing cuts, most notably the 2006 £5.6m reduction in the HSE budget. This has had major implications for the ability of the HSE to regulate workplaces with a decreasing numbers of regulatory contacts. A recent TUC report argued that: Around 85 per cent of major injuries reported to HSE are never investigated ... there is only so much that the 500 or so inspectors in HSE's Field Operations Division (FOD) can achieve. This means that very serious career-ending accidents go unpunished simply because there is no one to gather the evidence. The number of prosecutions is now half what it was in the early 1990s – this simply means that more employers are getting away with it, not that they are more compliant.\n\n"}
