{"id": "26914828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26914828", "title": "Airey v Ireland", "text": "Airey v Ireland\n\nAirey v. Ireland (application No. 6289/73) was a case decided by the European Court of Human Rights in 1979.\n\nMrs. Airey wished to obtain a decree of judicial separation from her husband (divorce was illegal in Ireland); at that time legal aid was not available in Ireland for any civil matters, including seeking a judicial separation.\n\nThe Court held that:\n\nJudges Thór Vilhjálmsson, O'Donoghue and Evrigenis each filed a dissent.\n\nIn the case, it was established that the right of effective access to the courts may entail legal assistance. \"Airey\" case has been applied in a number of cases on civil legal aid.\n\n"}
{"id": "55295389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55295389", "title": "An Act to Encourage Immigration", "text": "An Act to Encourage Immigration\n\nAn Act to Encourage Immigration, signed by President Abraham Lincoln on July 4, 1864, was the first major American law to encourage immigration.\n\nBe it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the United States is hereby authorized, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint a Commissioner of Immigration, who shall be subject to the direction of the Department of State, shall hold his office for four years, and shall receive a salary at the rate of $2,500 a year. The said Commissioner may employ not more than three clerks, of such grade as the Secretary of State shall designate, to be appointed by him, with the approval of the Secretary of State, and to hold their offices at his pleasure.\n\nSEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That all contracts that shall be made by emigrants to the United States in foreign countries, in conformity to regulations that may be established by the said Commissioner, whereby emigrants shall pledge the wages of their labor for a term not exceeding twelve months to repay the expenses of their emigration, shall be held to be valid in law, and may be enforced in the courts of the United States, or of the several States and Territories; and such advances, if so stipulated in the contract, and the contract be recorded in the Recorder's office in the county where the emigrant shall settle, shall operate as a lien upon any land thereafter acquired by the emigrant, whether under the Homestead Law when the title is consummated or on property otherwise acquired, until liquidated by the emigrant; but not being herein contained shall be deemed to authorize any contract contravening the Constitution of the United States or creating in any way the relation of Slavery or servitude.\n\nSEC. 3. And be it further enacted; That no emigrant to the United States who shall arrive after the passage of this act shall be compulsively enrolled for military service during the existing insurrection, unless such emigrant shall voluntarily renounce under oath his allegiance to the country of his birth, and declare his intention to become a citizen of the United States.\n\nSEC. 4. And be it further enacted, That there shall be established in the City of New-York an office to be known as the United States Emigrant Office; and there shall be appointed, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, an officer for said City, to be known as Superintendent of Immigration, at an annual salary of two thousand dollars; and the said Superintendent may employ a clerk of the first class; and such Superintendent shall, under the direction of the Commissioner of Immigration, make contracts with the different railroads and transportation companies of the United States for transportation tickets, to be furnished to such immigrants, and to be paid for by them, and shall, under such rules as may be prescribed by the Commissioner of Immigration, protect such immigrants from imposition and fraud, and shall furnish them such information and facilities as will enable them to proceed in the cheapest and most expeditious manner to the place of their destination. And such Superintendent of Immigration shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Commissioner of Immigration: Provided, That the duties hereby imposed upon the Superintendent in the City of New-York shall not be held to affect the powers and duties of the Commissioner of the Immigration of the State of New-York.And it shall be the duty of said Superintendent in the City of Ney-York, to see that the provisions of the act commonly known as the Passenger Act, are strictly complied with, and all breaches thereof punished according to law.\n\nSEC. 5. And be it further enacted. That no person shall be qualified to fill, any office under this act who shall be directly or indirectly interested in any corporation having lands for sale to immigrants, or in the carrying or transportation of immigrants, either from foreign countries to the United States and its Territories or to any part thereof, or who shall receive any fee or reward, or the promise thereof, for any service performed or any benefit rendered to any person or persons in the line or his duty under this act. And if any officer provided for by this act shall receive from any person or company any fee or reward, or promise thereof, for any services performed or any benefit rendered to any person or persons in the line of his duty under this act, he shall, upon conviction, be fined one thousand dollars or be imprisoned, not to exceed three years, at the discretion of a court of competent jurisdiction, and forever after be ineligible to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit in the United States, SEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That said Commissioner of Immigration shall,at the commencement of each annual meeting of Congress, submit a detailed report of the foreign immigration during the preceding year, and a detailed account of all expenditures under this act.\n\nSic. 7. And be it further enacted, That the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, in the judgment of the President, is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the purpose of carrying the provisions of this act into effect.\n\nAPPROVED, July 4,1864.\n"}
{"id": "25294495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25294495", "title": "BYU Law Review", "text": "BYU Law Review\n\nThe Brigham Young University Law Review is a law journal edited by students at Brigham Young University's J. Reuben Clark Law School. The journal publishes six issues per annual volume, with each issue generally including several professional articles and a number of student notes and comments.\n\nThe \"Brigham Young University Law Review\" typically publishes the proceedings of the annual International Law & Religion Symposium, sponsored by the BYU International Center for Law & Religious Studies, in the second issue of each volume. It also hosts and publishes the concomitant work of an annual faculty-organized symposium on a salient legal topic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4580", "title": "Battery Park City", "text": "Battery Park City\n\nBattery Park City is a mainly residential planned community on the west side of the southern tip of the island of Manhattan in New York City. More than one-third of the development is parkland. The land upon which it is built was created by land reclamation on the Hudson River using over of soil and rock excavated during the construction of the World Trade Center, the New York City Water Tunnel, and certain other construction projects, as well as from sand dredged from New York Harbor off Staten Island. The neighborhood, which is the site of Brookfield Place (formerly the World Financial Center), along with numerous buildings designed for housing, commercial, and retail, is named for adjacent Battery Park.\n\nBattery Park City is bounded on the east by West Street, which separates the area from the Financial District of Lower Manhattan. To the west, north, and south, the area is surrounded by the Hudson River.\n\nThe development consists of roughly five major sections. Traveling north to south, the first neighborhood has high-rise residential buildings, the Stuyvesant High School, a Regal Entertainment Group movie theater, and the Battery Park City branch of the New York Public Library. It is also the site of the 463-suite Conrad New York luxury hotel, which contains restaurants and bars such as the Loopy Doopy Rooftop Bar, ATRIO Wine Bar Restaurant, Mexican-themed El Vez, and three Danny Meyer-branded restaurants (North End Grill, Blue Smoke, Shake Shack); the hotel has a ballroom and a conference center. Other restaurants located in that hotel, as well as a DSW store and a New York Sports Club branch, were closed in 2009 after the takeover of the property by Goldman Sachs. Former undeveloped lots in the area have been developed into high-rise buildings; for example, Goldman Sachs built a new headquarters at 200 West Street.\n\nNearby is Brookfield Place, a complex of several commercial buildings formerly known as the World Financial Center.\n\nCurrent residential neighborhoods of Battery Park City are divided into northern and southern sections, separated by Brookfield Place. The northern section consists entirely of large, 20–45-story buildings, all various shades of orange brick. The southern section, extending down from the Winter Garden, which is located in Brookfield Place, contains residential apartment buildings such as Gateway Plaza and the Rector Place apartment buildings. In this section lies the majority of Battery Park City's residential areas, in three sections: Gateway Plaza, a high-rise building complex; the \"Rector Place Residential Neighborhood\"; and the\" Battery Place Residential Neighborhood\". These subsections contain most of the area's residential buildings, along with park space, supermarkets, restaurants, and movie theaters. Construction of residential buildings began north of the World Financial Center in the late 1990s, and completion of the final lots took place in early 2011. Additionally, a park restoration was completed in 2013.\n\nThroughout the 19th century and early 20th century, the area adjoining today's Battery Park City was known as Little Syria with Lebanese, Greeks, Armenians, and other ethnic groups. In 1929, the land was the proposed site of a $50,000,000 residential development that would have served workers in the Wall Street area. The Battery Tower project was left unfinished after workers digging the foundation ran into forty feet of old bulkheads, sunken docks, and ships. Construction was halted and never restarted.\n\nBy the late 1950s, the once-prosperous port area of downtown Manhattan was occupied by a number of dilapidated shipping piers, casualties of the rise of container shipping which drove sea traffic to Port Elizabeth, New Jersey. The initial proposal to reclaim this area through landfill was offered in the early 1960s by private firms and supported by the mayor. That plan became complicated when Governor Nelson Rockefeller announced his desire to redevelop a part of the area as a separate project. The various groups reached a compromise, and in 1966 the governor unveiled the proposal for what would become Battery Park City. The creation of architect Wallace K. Harrison, the proposal called for a 'comprehensive community' consisting of housing, social infrastructure and light industry. The landscaping of the park space and later the Winter Garden was designed by M. Paul Friedberg.\n\nIn 1968, the New York State Legislature created the Battery Park City Authority (BPCA) to oversee development. Rockefeller named Charles J. Urstadt as the first chairman of the authority’s board that year. He then served as the chief executive officer from 1973 to 1978. Urstadt later served as the authority’s vice chair from 1996 to 2010. The New York State Urban Development Corporation and ten other public agencies were also involved in the development project. For the next several years, the BPCA made slow progress. In April 1969, it unveiled a master plan for the area, which was approved in October. In early 1972, the BPCA issued $200 million in bonds to fund construction efforts, with Harry B. Helmsley designated as the developer. That same year, the city approved plans to alter the number of apartments designated for lower, middle and upper income renters. Urstadt said the changes were needed to make the financing for the project viable. In addition to the change in the mix of units, the city approved adding nine acres, which extended the northern boundary from Reade Street to Duane Street.\n\nLandfill material from construction of the World Trade Center was used to add fill for the southern portion. Cellular cofferdams were constructed to retain the material. After removal of the piers, wooden piles and overburden of silt, the northern portion (north of, and including the marina) was filled with sand dredged from areas adjacent to Ambrose Channel in the Atlantic Ocean, as well as stone from the construction of Water Tunnel #3. By 1976, the landfill was completed. Seating stands for viewing the American Bicentennial \"Operation Sail\" flotilla parade were set up on the completed landfill in July 1976. Construction efforts ground to a halt in 1977, as a result of the city's fiscal crisis. That year, the presidential administration of Jimmy Carter approved mortgage insurance for 1,600 of the development's proposed units. In 1979, the title to the landfill was transferred from the city to the Battery Park City Authority, which financially restructured itself and created a new, more viable master plan, designed by Alex Cooper and Stanton Eckstut. By that time, only two of the proposed development's buildings had been built, and the $200 million bond issue was supposed to have been paid off the next year.\n\nThe design of BPC to some degree reflects the values of vibrant city neighborhoods championed by Jane Jacobs. The Urban Land Institute (ULI) awarded the Battery Park City Master Plan its 2010 Heritage Award, for having \"facilitated the private development of 9.3 million square feet of commercial space, 7.2 million square feet of residential space, and nearly 36 acres of open space in lower Manhattan, becoming a model for successful large-scale planning efforts and marking a positive shift away from the urban renewal mindset of the time.\"\n\nDuring the late 1970s and early 1980s, the site hosted Creative Time's landmark Art on the Beach sculpture exhibitions. On September 23, 1979, the landfill was the site of an anti-nuclear rally attended by 200,000 people.\n\nConstruction began on the first residential building in June 1980. In April 1981, the New York State Urban Development Corporation (now the Empire State Development Corporation) issued a request for proposal, ultimately selecting six real-estate companies to develop over 1,800 residential units. The same year, the World Financial Center started construction; Olympia and York of Toronto was named as the developer for the World Financial Center, who then hired Cesar Pelli as the lead architect. By 1985, construction was completed and the World Financial Center (later renamed Brookfield Place New York) saw its first tenants. The newly completed development was lauded by \"The New York Times\" as \"a triumph of urban design,\" with the World Financial Center being deemed \"a symbol of change.\"\nDuring early construction, two acres of land in the southern section of the Battery Park landfill was used by artist Agnes Denes to plant wheat in an exhibition titled \"Wheatfield - A Confrontation\". The project was a visual contradiction: a golden field of wheat set among the steel skyscrapers of downtown Manhattan. It was created during a six-month period in the spring, summer, and fall of 1982 when Denes, with the support of the Public Art Fund, planted the field of wheat on rubble-strewn land near Wall Street and the World Trade Center site. Denes stated that her \"decision to plant a wheatfield in Manhattan, instead of designing just another public sculpture, grew out of a long-standing concern and need to call attention to our misplaced priorities and deteriorating human values.\"\n\nThroughout the 1980s, the BPCA oversaw a great deal of construction, including the entire Rector Place neighborhood and the river esplanade. It was during that period that Amanda Burden, later City Planning Department Director in the Bloomberg administration, worked on Battery Park City. During the 1980s, a total of 13 buildings were constructed. The Vietnam Veterans Plaza was established by Edward I. Koch in 1985. In the early 1990s, Battery Park City became the new home of the Stuyvesant High School. During the 1990s, an additional six buildings were added to the neighborhood. By the turn of the 21st century, Battery Park City was mostly completed, with the exception of some ongoing construction on West Street.\n\nInitially, in the 1980s, 23 buildings were built in the area. By the 1990s, 9 more buildings were built, followed by the construction of 11 buildings in the 2000s and 3 buildings in the 2010s. The Battery Park City Authority, wishing to attract more middle-class residents, started providing subsidies in 1998 to households whose annual incomes were $108,000 or less. By the end of the decade, nearly the entire landfill had been developed.\n\nThe September 11 attacks in 2001 had a major impact on Battery Park City. The residents of Lower Manhattan and particularly of Battery Park City were displaced for an extended period of time. Parts of the community were an official crime-scene and therefore residents were unable to return to live or even collect property. Many of the displaced residents were not allowed to return to the area for months and none were given government guidance of where to live temporarily on the already crowded island of Manhattan. With most hotel rooms booked, residents, including young children and the elderly were forced to fend for themselves.\n\nWhen they were finally allowed to return to Battery Park City, some found that their homes had been looted. Upon residents' return, the air in the area was still filled with toxic smoke from the World Trade Center fires that persisted until December 2001. More than half of the area's residents moved away permanently from the community after the adjacent World Trade Center towers collapsed and spread toxic dust, debris, and smoke. Gateway Plaza's 600 building, Hudson View East, and Parc Place (now Rector Square) were punctured by airplane parts. The Winter Garden and other portions of the World Financial Center were severely damaged. Environmental concerns regarding dust from the Trade Center are a continuing source of concern for many residents, scientists, and elected officials. Since the attacks, the damage has been repaired. Temporarily reduced rents and government subsidies helped restore residential occupancy in the years following the attacks.\n\nAfter September 11, 2001, residents of Battery Park City and Tribeca formed the TriBattery Pops Tom Goodkind Conductor in response to the events of the attacks. The “Pops” have been Grammy-nominated and are the first lower Manhattan all-volunteer community band in a century.\n\nSince then, real estate development in the area has continued robustly. Commercial development includes the 200 West Street, the Goldman Sachs global headquarters, which began construction in 2005 and opened for occupancy in October 2009. 200 West Street is seeking gold-level certification under the United States Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) program by incorporating various water and energy conservation features. Several residential projects are underway, including LEED buildings which cater to the environmentally conscious.\n\nBattery Park City is owned and managed by the Hugh L. Carey Battery Park City Authority (BPCA), a Class A New York State public-benefit corporation created by New York State in 1968 to redevelop outmoded and deteriorated piers, a project that has involved reclaiming the land, replanning the area and facilitating new construction of a mixed commercial and residential community. It has operated under the authority of the Urban Development Corporation. Its mission is \"to plan, create, co-ordinate and maintain a balanced community of commercial, residential, retail, and park space within its designated 92-acre site on the lower west side of Manhattan\" in New York City. The authority's board is composed of seven uncompensated members who are appointed by the governor and who serve six-year terms. The BPCA is invested with substantial powers: it can acquire, hold and dispose of real property, enter into lease agreements, borrow money and issue debt, and manage the project. Like other public benefit corporations, the BPCA is exempt from property taxes and has the ability to issue tax exempt bonds. In 2017, the BPCA had operating expenses of $47.73 million as well as an outstanding debt of $982.85 million, and it employed 240 people.\n\nUnder the 1989 agreement between the BPCA and the City of New York, $600 million was transferred by the BPCA to the city. Charles J. Urstadt, the first Chairman and CEO of the BPCA, noted in an August 19, 2007 op-ed piece in the \"New York Post\" that the aggregate figure of funds transferred to the City of New York is above $1.4 billion, with the BPCA continuing to contribute $200 million a year.\n\nExcess revenue from the area was to be contributed to other housing efforts, typically low-income projects in the Bronx and Harlem. Much of this funding has historically been diverted to general city expenses, under section 3.d of the 1989 agreement. However, in July 2006, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Governor George Pataki, and Comptroller William C. Thompson, Jr. announced the final approval for the New York City Housing Trust Fund derived from $130 million in Battery Park City revenues. The fund aimed to preserve or create 4,300 units of low- and moderate-income housing by 2009. It also provided seed financing for the New York Acquisition Fund, a $230 million initiative that aims to serve as a catalyst for the construction and preservation of more than 30,000 units of affordable housing citywide by 2016. The Acquisition Fund has since established itself as a model for similar funds in cities and states across the country.\n\nBy 2018, thirty residential buildings had been built in Battery Park City and no new construction was planned. The Battery Park City Authority’s main focus turned to maintenance of existing infrastructure, security and conservancy of the public spaces. The authority was creating over 1,000 free activities per year.\n\nBecause Battery Park City is located on land lease, condo owners pay higher monthly charges than owners of comparable apartments elsewhere in New York City because its residents pay their building's common charges in addition to PILOT (payments in lieu of taxes). The PILOT payments replace real estate taxes and the land lease. As a result, residential units have higher monthly costs compared to other neighborhoods, so apartments in Battery Park City are cheaper than comparable apartments elsewhere in the city. However, when monthly charges and rents are combined, the cost of apartments in Battery Park City are similar to those of other high-priced apartments in New York City.\n\nBased on data from the 2010 United States Census, the population of Battery Park City and surrounding areas of Lower Manhattan was 39,699, an increase of 19,611 (97.6%) from the 20,088 counted in 2000. Covering an area of , the neighborhood had a population density of .\n\nThe racial makeup of the neighborhood was 65.4% (25,965) White, 3.2% (1,288) African American, 0.1% (35) Native American, 20.2% (8,016) Asian, 0.0% (17) Pacific Islander, 0.4% (153) from other races, and 3.0% (1,170) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 7.7% (3,055) of the population.\n\n, about 10,000 people live in Battery Park City, most of whom are upper middle class and upper class (54.0% of households have incomes over $100,000). When fully built out, the neighborhood is projected to have 14,000 residents. The population history is as follows:\n\n\nA largely Arab-American neighborhood existed adjacent to what is today southeastern Battery Park City from the late 1880s to the 1940s. \"Little Syria\" encompassed Washington Street from Battery Park to Rector Street. It declined as a neighborhood as the inhabitants became successful and moved to other areas, especially Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, and disappeared almost entirely when a great deal of lower Washington Street was demolished to make way for entrance ramps to the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel, which opened in 1950. The overwhelming majority of the residents were Arabic-speaking Christians, Melkite and Maronite immigrants from present-day Syria and Lebanon who settled in the area in the late 19th century, escaping religious persecution and poverty in their homelands – which were then under control of the Ottoman Empire – and answering the call of American missionaries to escape their difficulties by traveling to New York City.\n\nHowever, many other ethnic groups had lived in this diverse neighborhood, including Greeks, Turks, Armenians, Slovaks, Poles, Hungarians, Lithuanians, Ukrainians, Czechs, and Irish.\n\nA long-standing reminder of the ethnic past was the former St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, which was destroyed in the September 11 attacks. An additional historic church, St. George's Syrian Catholic Church, still stands at 103 Washington Street.\n\nThe first residential building in Battery Park City, Gateway Plaza, was completed in 1983. , the population of the area was 13,386. Some of the more prominent residential buildings include:\n\nOther residential condominiums include:\n\n\nOther residential apartments include:\n\nBattery Park City, which is mainly residential, also has a few office buildings. The seven buildings in the Brookfield Place complex, as well as 200 West Street, are the neighborhood's only office buildings.\n\nLocated in the middle of Battery Park City and overlooking the Hudson River, Brookfield Place, designed by César Pelli and owned mostly by Toronto-based Brookfield Office Properties, has been home to offices of various major companies, including Merrill Lynch, RBC Capital Markets, Nomura Group, American Express and Brookfield Asset Management, among others. Brookfield Place also serves as the United States headquarters for Brookfield Office Properties, which has its headquarters located in 200 Vesey Street. Brookfield Place also has its own zip code, 10281.\n\nBrookfield Place's ground floor and portions of the second floor are occupied by a mall; its center point is a steel-and-glass atrium known as the Winter Garden. Outside of the Winter Garden lies a sizeable yacht harbor on the Hudson known as North Cove.\n\nThe building's original developer was Olympia and York of Toronto, Ontario. It used to be named the World Financial Center, but in 2014, the complex was given its current name following the completion of extensive renovations. The World Financial Center complex was built by Olympia and York between 1982 and 1988; it was damaged in the September 11 attacks but later repaired. It has six constituent buildings – 200 Liberty Street, 225 Liberty Street, 200 Vesey Street, 250 Vesey Street, the Winter Garden Atrium, and One North End Avenue (a.k.a. the New York Mercantile Exchange building).\n\n200 West Street is the location of the global headquarters of Goldman Sachs, an investment banking firm. A , 44-story building located on the west side of West Street between Vesey and Murray Streets, it is north of Brookfield Place and the Conrad Hotels, across the street from the Verizon Building, and diagonally opposite the World Trade Center. It is distinctive for being the only office building in the northern section of Battery Park City. It started construction in 2005 and opened in 2009.\n\nThe area lies within the area patrolled by the NYPD's 1st Precinct at 1 Ericsson Place in Tribeca; this area also covers the rest of western Downtown Manhattan, including Tribeca, World Trade Center, Financial District, and Hudson Square, as well as Governors Island. The overall area is relatively calm, with no murders, 12 rapes, 68 robberies, 81 felony assaults, 171 burglaries, 1,051 grand larcenies, and 27 grand larcenies auto reported in the area in 2013.\n\nCurrently, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority provides bus service to the area. , the bus lines service parts of Battery Park City, with the nearby at Battery Park. Additionally, the Downtown Alliance provides a free bus service that runs along North End Avenue and South End Avenue, connecting the various residential complexes with subway stations on the other side of West Street.\n\nThere is currently no New York City Subway access in Battery Park City proper; however, the West Street pedestrian bridges, as well as crosswalks across West Street, connect Battery Park City to subway stations and the PATH station in the nearby Financial District. A tunnel from Brookfield Place under West Street also provides access from Battery Park City to the World Trade Center PATH station. The Battery Park City Ferry Terminal is at the foot of Vesey Street opposite the New York Mercantile Exchange and provides ferry transportation to various points in New Jersey.\n\nBattery Park City's schools include:\n\n\nBattery Park City has a New York Public Library branch at 175 North End Avenue, designed by 1100 Architect and completed in 2010. A , two-story library on the street level of a high-rise residential building, it utilizes several sustainable design features, earning it LEED Gold certification.\n\nSustainability was a driving factor in the design of the library including use of an energy-efficient lighting system, maximization of natural lighting, and use of recycled materials. 1100 Architect, in collaboration with Atelier Ten, an international team of environmental design consultants and building services engineers, designed the library’s energy-efficient lighting system. The open plan layout and large use of glass allow for ample natural daylight year-round and low-energy LED light illuminates communal spaces. Recycled materials are incorporated into the design including carpet made from re-purposed truck tires, floors made from reclaimed window frame wood, and furniture made from FSC-certified plywood and recycled steel. Design features include a seemingly \"floating\" origami-style ceiling made up of triangular panels hung at varying angles and a padded reading nook fitted into the library's terrazzo-finished steel and concrete staircase. The interior uses an easy-to-navigate layout with its three distinct spatial areas of entry area, first floor space, and mezzanine visually unified through the ceiling.\n\nThe building also won the \"Interior Design\", Best of Year Merit Award in 2011, followed by \"The National Terrazzo and Mosaic Association\", Port Morris Tile and Marble Corporation Craftsmanship Award in 2011 and the \"Contract\", Public Space Interiors Award in 2012.\n\nMore than one-third of the neighborhood is parkland.\n\nSome large open spaces and parks include:\n\nIn addition, there are:\n\n\nNotable residents include:\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "496527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496527", "title": "Belligerent", "text": "Belligerent\n\nA belligerent (lat. \"bellum gerere\", \"to wage war\") is an individual, group, country, or other entity that acts in a hostile manner, such as engaging in combat. Belligerent comes from Latin, literally meaning \"one who wages war\". Unlike the use of \"belligerent\" as an adjective to mean aggressive, its use as a noun does not necessarily imply that a belligerent country is an aggressor.\n\nIn times of war, belligerent countries can be contrasted with neutral countries, and non-belligerents. However, the application of the laws of war to neutral countries and the responsibilities of belligerents are not affected by any distinction between \"neutral countries\", \"neutral powers\" or \"non-belligerents\" — a non-belligerent may nevertheless risk being considered a belligerent if it aids or supports a belligerent in a way that is proscribed by neutral countries.\n\nAn interesting use of the term arose during the American Civil War, when the Confederate States of America, though not recognized as a sovereign state, was recognized as a \"belligerent power\"; and, as a consequence, Confederate warships were given the same rights as US warships in foreign ports.\n\n\"Belligerency\" is a term used in international law to indicate the status of two or more entities, generally sovereign states, being engaged in a war. Wars are often fought with one or both parties to a conflict invoking the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter (as the United Kingdom did in 1982 before the start of the Falklands War) or under the auspices of a United Nations Security Council resolution (such as the United Nations Security Council Resolution 678, which gave legal authority for the Gulf War).\n\nA state of belligerency may also exist between one or more sovereign states on one side and rebel forces, if such rebel forces are recognised as belligerents. If there is a rebellion against a constituted authority (for example, an authority recognised as such by the United Nations), and those taking part in the rebellion are not recognized as belligerents, the rebellion is an insurgency. Once the status of belligerency is established between two or more states, their relations are determined and governed by the laws of war.\n\n"}
{"id": "23389144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23389144", "title": "Boundary Treaty of 1866 between Chile and Bolivia", "text": "Boundary Treaty of 1866 between Chile and Bolivia\n\nThe Boundary Treaty of 1866 between Chile and Bolivia, also called the Mutual Benefits Treaty, was signed in Santiago de Chile on August 10, 1866 by the Chilean Foreign Affairs Minister Alvaro Covarrubias and the Bolivian Plenipotentiary in Santiago Juan R. Muñoz Cabrera. It drew, for the first time, the border between both countries at the 24° South parallel from the Pacific Ocean to the eastern border of Chile and defined a zone of bipartite tax collection, the \"Mutual Benefits zone\", and tax preferences for articles from Bolivia and Chile.\n\nDespite increasing border tensions since the 1840s, both countries fought together against Spain in the Chincha Islands War (1864–65) and resolved the question under the Governments of Mariano Melgarejo in Bolivia and José Joaquín Pérez in Chile. But before long, both countries were discontented with it, and Peru and Bolivia signed a secret treaty against Chile in 1873. The Lindsay-Corral protocol, thought to clarify the treaty, was approved by Chile but never by Bolivia.\n\nIn 1874, a new boundary treaty was signed, which was violated by Bolivia in 1878. In 1879 began the War of the Pacific.\n\nAfter the independence wars, the new Latin American republics adopted as a common juridical principle of frontier demarcation the administrative limits existing at the moment of separation from Spain. This was termed in \"Uti possidetis\" of 1810, a formula devised mainly to prevent European nations from setting foot in America, on the plea that between one heritage and another there were vacant regions susceptible of being title of \"res nullius\".\n\nIn particular, remote regions, sparsely populated or uninhabited areas, inhospitable climate, and sparse local vegetation caused a lack of geographical knowledge and hence administrative determination of the borders. But political unrest also led to changes, like the province of Tarija in colonial Argentina, which after independence wanted to come under Bolivian administration. On the other hand, European powers and the USA never recognized the principle of \"Uti possidetis\" 1810, as for example in the Falkland Islands. Since uncertainty characterized the demarcation of frontiers according to the \"Uti possidetis\" 1810, several long-running border conflicts arose in America after independence throughout the 19th century.\n\nBolivia had claimed territories down to latitude 26° South since its independence. In 1842, the Chilean Government of Manuel Bulnes declared the 23° South Parallel of latitude (near Mejillones) as the northern frontier of Chile, although at that time it was not possible to foresee the enormous importance of guano and nitrate.\n\nFrom that day on, conflicts of jurisdiction between Chilean and Bolivian authorities were frequent. The Chilean ship \"Rumenia\" was carried to Cobija, the Bolivian port, and the Bolivian \"Sportsman\" to Caldera, Chile. Between 1842 and 1862, there were unsuccessful attempts at conciliation by both governments.\n\nThis situation could not continue indefinitely. Every day the affair was becoming more acute, because more interest was being taken in guano due to the increase in the revenue of Peru due to the deposits on the Chincha islands. The controversy became critical on 5 June 1863 as the Bolivian Congress secretly empowered the Executive to declare war on Chile.\n\nAn unexpected situation arose that modified the political relations of the nations of the Pacific: the war declared by Spain on Peru and Spain's reassertion of her claims to the Chincha islands. The Governments of the Pacific were alarmed, and Chile, Bolivia and Ecuador made common cause with Peru. Previous differences were considered as being of secondary importance, and Bolivia and Chile sought to end the border conflict. Interrupted diplomatic relations were resumed, and on 10 August 1866 the Boundary Treaty was signed in Santiago.\n\nThe Treaty stipulated in seven articles:\n\n\nRegarding the Treaty of Mutual Benefits, Ronald Bruce St John states:\n\nAs a matter of fact, the Treaty settled nothing, it left everything pending and opened the door to difficulties greater than those it attempted to settle.\n\nOn 5 December 1872, after difficult talks, Bolivian and Chilean negotiators Corral and Lindsay agreed to a clarification of the treaty of 1866. The Lindsay-Corral Protocol gave Chile the right to appoint customs officers to work alongside their Bolivian counterparts in the condominium zone, stipulated that tax rates could not be modified unilaterally, confirmed Bolivian acceptance of nitrates and borax as products included in the terms of the 1866 treaty, agreed that Bolivia would make a separate account of the amount to be received for taxes not derived from the common zone, and stated that the eastern limits of the common zone would be fixed by experts of both countries, and in case of disagreement, by a third nominated by the Emperor of Brazil. This Protocol was approved by Chile in January 1873.\n\nA new grievance arose in August 1872 as Quintin Quevedo, a Bolivian diplomat, follower of Mariano Melgarejo who had been toppled as president in 1871, embarked on an expedition from Valparaiso against the Bolivian government, without any effective action of the Chilean authority, despite a warning by the Peruvian and Bolivian consulates about weapons and men on board the ships \"Maria Luisa\" and \"Paquete de Los Vilos\".\n\nPeru, which at that time enjoyed naval supremacy in South Pacific, responded with a naval demonstration in Mejillones, sending there the \"Huascar\" and the \"Chalaco\". Peru's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jose de la Riva Agüero, told the Chilean Government that Peru would not view with indifference the occupation of Bolivian territory by foreign forces.\n\nIn October 1872 the Bolivian Assembly authorized the executive to sign a treaty of alliance with Peru (without the necessity for further legislative consultation) which finally became the Secret treaty of alliance between Peru and Bolivia of 1873, signed on February 6, 1873, in Lima.\n\nThe Peruvian government saw the Lindsay-Corral Protocol as an increase in the regional influence of Chile and urged Bolivia to reject it, and in fact on May 19, 1873 the Bolivian Assembly postponed approval to 1874. The Assembly never approved nor refused the treaty.\n\nIn 1874, representatives of Bolivia and Chile reopened talks which concluded with the Treaty of Sucre or Boundary Treaty between Bolivia and Chile of 1874 (see English version in ). The pact kept the 24th parallel as the boundary between Bolivia and Chile and Chile relinquished its former rights of condominium in return for no future nitrate tax increases over Chilean companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6709070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6709070", "title": "Brazilian nationality law", "text": "Brazilian nationality law\n\nBrazilian nationality law is based on both the principles of \"jus soli\" and of \"jus sanguinis\". As a general rule, any person born in Brazil acquires Brazilian nationality at birth, irrespective of status of parents. Nationality law is regulated by Article 12 of the Brazilian Federal Constitution.\n\nA person born in Brazil acquires Brazilian nationality at birth. The only exception applies to children of persons in the service of a foreign government (such as a foreign diplomats). This means that parents and siblings of the Brazilian child are eligible to apply for permanent residency in Brazil, regardless of their nationality or where subsequent siblings were/are born.\n\nBrazilian law considers as Brazilian citizens people born abroad in two cases:\n\n\nBetween 1994 and 2007, registration with a Brazilian consular office did not confer Brazilian nationality. In September 2007, a constitutional amendment reinstituted consular registration as a means of acquiring Brazilian nationality.\n\nForeigners may apply for Brazilian nationality if they meet the following criteria:\n\n\nThe residence requirement may be reduced in certain circumstances:\n\n\nThose who have lived in Brazil for more than 15 years and have no criminal conviction do not have to satisfy any other condition for naturalization. There are also lower requirements for those who moved to Brazil as minors.\n\nSince 10 May 2016, Brazil does not require naturalized citizens to renounce their previous nationality.\n\nAccording to the Brazilian constitution, Brazilian citizens who acquire another nationality may lose Brazilian nationality. However, since 1994 a constitutional amendment allows two exceptions where Brazilians may maintain Brazilian nationality while acquiring another one. The first exception is in the case of recognition of \"originary nationality\" by foreign law. Contrary to a popular misconception, this term does not refer to recognition of original Brazilian nationality by the other country, but to cases where the other nationality is acquired by origin (by birth or descent, as opposed to naturalization). Whether the other country recognizes dual nationality is irrelevant. The second exception is in case the other country requires naturalization for the person to remain residing or to exercise civil rights there.\n\nAlthough the government has the power to revoke Brazilian nationality of those who voluntarily naturalized in another country and did not satisfy one of the exceptions, it tends to apply these exceptions very broadly, and in practice it only revokes Brazilian nationality if the person formally requests so, or very rarely in exceptional circumstances. For example, in 2013 the Brazilian government revoked the nationality of a Brazilian citizen who had naturalized in the United States, to extradite her to that country (the Brazilian constitution does not allow extradition of its own citizens). The decision was confirmed by the Supreme Federal Court in 2017, and she was extradited in 2018.\n\nThose who lost Brazilian nationality due to naturalization in another country may apply for its reacquisition on the condition that they will renounce the other nationality. After Brazilian nationality is reacquired, the applicants have 18 months to show proof of renunciation of the other nationality. The process is done in this order to prevent statelessness.\n\nNaturalized Brazilians are allowed to also keep their previous nationality. They may lose Brazilian nationality if convicted of activity considered \"harmful to the national interest\".\n\nBrazilian citizens who also have another nationality are allowed to enter and leave Brazil with the passport of the other country in combination with any document attesting Brazilian nationality such as a Brazilian identity card or an expired Brazilian passport. If they do not provide such document, they may still enter Brazil as foreigners, subject to the regular requirements and limitations as such. However, usually this case is only possible if Brazil does not require a visa from the other nationality. Brazil only issues visas to dual citizens in exceptional circumstances, such as for those who work in foreign government jobs that prohibit the use of a Brazilian passport.\n\nVisa requirements for Brazilian citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Brazil. As of 1 January 2017, Brazilian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 156 countries and territories, ranking the Brazilian passport 18th in terms of travel freedom according to the Henley visa restrictions index.\n\nMale Brazilian citizens have a 12-month military service obligation, unless the citizen has a disqualifying physical or psychological condition, or if the citizen does not wish to serve and the military finds enough volunteers to support its needs. Therefore, although registering for the military is mandatory, about 95% of those who register receive an exemption. Male citizens between 18 and 45 years of age are required to present a military registration certificate when applying for a Brazilian passport.\n\nVoting in Brazil is mandatory for citizens between 18 and 70 years of age. Those who do not vote in an election and do not later present an acceptable justification (such as being away from their voting location at the time) must pay a fine of 3.51 BRL. Citizens between 18 and 70 years of age are required to present proof of voting compliance (by having voted, justified absence or paid the fine) when applying for a Brazilian passport.\n\n"}
{"id": "430411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430411", "title": "Clerestory", "text": "Clerestory\n\nIn architecture, a clerestory ( ; lit. \"clear storey\", also clearstory, clearstorey, or overstorey) is a high section of wall that contains windows above eye level. The purpose is to admit light, fresh air, or both.\n\nHistorically, \"clerestory\" denoted an upper level of a Roman basilica or of the nave of a Romanesque or Gothic church, the walls of which rise above the rooflines of the lower aisles and are pierced with windows.\n\nSimilar structures have been used in transportation vehicles to provide additional lighting, ventilation, or headroom.\n\nThe technology of the clerestory appears to originate in the temples of ancient Egypt. The term \"clerestory\" is applicable to Egyptian temples, where the lighting of the hall of columns was obtained over the stone roofs of the adjoining aisles, through slits pierced in vertical slabs of stone. Clerestory appeared in Egypt at least as early as the Amarna period.\n\nIn the Minoan palaces of Crete such as Knossos, by contrast, lightwells were employed in addition to clerestories.\n\nAccording to Biblical accounts, the Hebrew temple built by King Solomon featured clerestory windows made possible by the use of a tall, angled roof and a central ridgepole.\n\nThe clerestory was used in the Hellenistic architecture of the later periods of ancient Greek civilization. The Romans applied clerestories to basilicas of justice and to the basilica-like bath-houses and palaces.\n\nEarly Christian churches and some Byzantine churches, particularly in Italy, are based closely on the Roman basilica, and maintained the form of a central nave flanked by lower aisles on each side. The nave and aisles are separated by columns or piers, above which rises a wall pierced by clerestory windows.\nDuring the Romanesque period, many churches of the basilica form were constructed all over Europe. Many of these churches have wooden roofs with clerestories below them. Some Romanesque churches have barrel vaulted ceilings with no clerestory. The development of the groin vault and ribbed vault made possible the insertion of clerestory windows.\n\nInitially the nave of a large aisled and clerestoried church was of two levels, arcade and clerestory. During the Romanesque period a third level was inserted between them, a gallery called the \"triforium\". The triforium generally opens into space beneath the sloping roof of the aisle. This became a standard feature of later Romanesque and Gothic large abbey and cathedral churches. Sometimes another gallery set into the wall space above the triforium and below the clerestory. This feature is found in some late Romanesque and early Gothic buildings in France.\nThe oldest glass clerestory windows still in place are from the late 11th century, found in the Augsburg Cathedral\n\nIn smaller churches, clerestory windows may be trefoils or quatrefoils. In some Italian churches they are ocular. In most large churches, they are an important feature, both for beauty and for utility. The ribbed vaulting and flying buttresses of Gothic architecture concentrated the weight and thrust of the roof, freeing wall-space for larger clerestory fenestration. In Gothic masterpieces, the clerestory is generally divided into bays by the vaulting shafts that continue the same tall columns that form the arcade separating the aisles from the nave.\n\nThe tendency from the early Romanesque period to the late Gothic period was for the clerestory level to become progressively taller and the size of the windows to get proportionally larger in relation to wall surface, emerging in works such as the Gothic architecture of Amiens Cathedral or Westminster Abbey where their clerestories account for nearly a third of the height of the interior.\n\nModern clerestories are often defined as vertical windows, located on high walls, extending up from the roofline, designed to allow light and breezes into a space, without compromising privacy. Factory buildings are often built with clerestory windows; modern housing designs sometimes include them as well.\n\nModern clerestory windows may have another especially important role, besides daylighting and ventilation: they can be part of passive solar strategies, in very energy efficient buildings (Passive House Buildings, Zero Energy Buildings).\n\nTo that end, clerestories are used in conjunction with stone, brick, concrete and other high mass walls and floors, properly positioned to store solar heat gains during the hotter parts of the day – allowing the walls and the floor to act as a heat bank during the cooler parts of the day.\n\nClerestories – in passive solar strategies – should be properly located (typically in the sunny side of the building) and protected from the summer’s sun by rooflines, overhangs, recessed thick walls or other architectural elements, in order to prevent overheating during the cooling season.\n\nClerestory roofs were used on railway carriages (known as \"clerestory carriages\") from the mid-1800s into the 1930s.\n\nThe first Pullman coaches in England, which were also clerestory roofed, were imported and assembled at Derby, where Pullman set up an assembly plant in conjunction with the Midland Railway, a predecessor of the London Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS). The first coach, a sleeping car named \"Midland\", was assembled and ready for trial running in January 1874.\n\nLondon Underground's last clerestory roofed trains were the 'Q' stock which ceased operations in 1971.\n\nClerestories were also used in early double-decker buses, giving better ventilation and headroom in the centre corridor, as well as better illumination.\n\nVolkswagen Type 2 Kombi, or Transport, commonly called the Microbus, came in a deluxe version with clerestory windows. VW made the Samba from 1961-67 in several versions, which had as many as 23 windows, and are highly prized by collectors.\n\nAlso known as 'Mollycroft Roof' especially in Romany and other caravans.\n\n"}
{"id": "29207004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29207004", "title": "Constitutional Court of Albania", "text": "Constitutional Court of Albania\n\nThe Constitutional Court of the Republic of Albania () is the final authority for the interpretation of the Constitution \"(Kushtetuta)\" and the compliance of laws in accordance with the constitution. As of article 168, the ourt guarantees respect for the Constitution and makes final interpretations of it.\n\nThe Constitutional Court is composed of 9 members, which are appointed by the President \"(Presidenti)\" with the consent of the Parliament \"(Kuvendi)\".\n\nAs of the Articles 168-177 of the Albanian Constitution, Constitutional Court decides on:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39651265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39651265", "title": "Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation", "text": "Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation\n\nThe Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation (sometimes referred to as the Sabotage Convention or the Montreal Convention) is a multilateral treaty by which states agree to prohibit and punish behaviour which may threaten the safety of civil aviation.\n\nThe Convention does not apply to customs, law enforcement or military aircraft, thus it applies exclusively to civilian aircraft.\n\nThe Convention criminalises the following behaviour:\n\nThe Convention sets out the principle of \"aut dedere aut judicare\"—that a party to the treaty must either (1) prosecute a person who commits one of the offences or (2) send the individual to another state that requests his or her extradition for prosecution of the same crime.\n\nThe Convention was adopted by the International Conference on Air Law at Montreal on 23 September 1971. It came into force on 26 January 1973 after it had been ratified by 10 states. As of 2013, the Convention has 188 state parties.\n\nThe Convention has 188 state parties, which includes 186 UN members plus the Cook Islands and Niue. The seven UN member states that are \"not\" parties to the treaty are:\nFormer state parties that were not formally succeeded by any existing state include Czechoslovakia, East Germany, and Yugoslavia. A number of states ratified but have since been succeeded by new states: Serbia ratified as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; Russia ratified as the Soviet Union; Belarus ratified as the Byelorussian SSR; and Ukraine ratified as the Ukrainian SSR. Prior to the unification of Yemen, both North and South Yemen had ratified the convention. The Republic of China signed and ratified the agreement; in 1980, the People's Republic of China approved the treaty with a statement that it declared the Republic of China's actions with respect to the convention \"null and void\".\n\nOn 24 February 1988 in Montreal, the Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at Airports serving International Civil Aviation was signed as a supplement to the Convention.\n\nThe Protocol makes it an offence to commit similarly violent, dangerous, or damaging acts in airports that serve civil aviation.\n\nThe Protocol came into force on 6 August 1989 and as of February 2018 has been ratified by 175 states, which includes 173 UN member states plus the Cook Islands and Niue. The UN member states that are \"not\" parties to the Protocol are the seven states that have not ratified the Convention plus the following 14 states:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222427", "title": "Crypto-anarchism", "text": "Crypto-anarchism\n\nCrypto-anarchism (or crypto-anarchy) is a form of anarchy accomplished through computer technology. Crypto-anarchists employ cryptographic software to evade persecution and harassment while sending and receiving information over computer networks, in an effort to protect their privacy, their political freedom, and their economic freedom.\n\nBy using cryptographic software, the association between the identity of a certain user or organization and the pseudonym they use is made difficult to find, unless the user reveals the association. It is difficult to say which country's laws will be ignored, as even the location of a certain participant is unknown. However, participants may in theory voluntarily create new laws using smart contracts or, if the user is pseudonymous, depend on online reputation.\n\nIn his 1988 \"Crypto Anarchist Manifesto\", Timothy C. May introduced the basic principles of crypto-anarchism, encrypted exchanges ensuring total anonymity, total freedom of speech, and total freedom to trade – with foreseeable hostility coming from States.\n\n\"Crypto-\" comes from the Ancient Greek \"κρυπτός\" kruptós, meaning \"hidden\" or \"secret\". Crypto-anarchism refers to anarchist politics founded on cryptographic methods, as well as a form of anarchism that operates in secret.\n\nOne motive of crypto-anarchists is to defend against surveillance of computer networks communication. Crypto-anarchists try to protect against government mass surveillance, such as PRISM, Tempora, telecommunications data retention, the NSA warrantless surveillance controversy, Room 641A, the FRA and so on. Crypto-anarchists consider the development and use of cryptography to be the main defense against such problems, as opposed to political action.\n\nA second concern is evasion of censorship, particularly Internet censorship, on the grounds of freedom of expression. The programs used by crypto-anarchists often make it possible to both publish and read information off the internet or other computer networks anonymously. For example, Tor, I2P, Freenet and many similar networks allow for anonymous \"hidden\" webpages accessible only by users of these programs, while projects like Bitmessage allow for anonymous messaging system intended to be a substitute for email. This helps whistleblowers and political opposition in oppressive nations to spread their information.\n\nA third reason is to build and participate in counter economics, which includes development of viable alternatives to banking systems, and development of alternative financial systems which provide the user with options for greater privacy or anonymity. Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and services like Silk Road and Black Market Reloaded made it possible to trade goods and services with little interference from the law. These are examples of centralized, and thus vulnerable, marketplaces, or tools. Similarly, web wallets employed by Bitcoin users are also centralized and vulnerable. Decentralized and distributed marketplaces and currency exchanges are more difficult to target by law enforcement agencies and may provide more security to its end-users. A decentralized and distributed marketplace in development is OpenBazaar.\n\nThe technical challenge in developing and maintaining these cryptographic systems is tremendous, which causes some programmers to be interested in joining such projects.\n\nCrypto-anarchists argue that without encryption abilities, messages, personal information, and private life would be seriously damaged. They argue that a ban on cryptography is equal to the eradication of secrecy of correspondence. They argue that only a draconian police-state would criminalize cryptography. It is already illegal to use it in some countries, and export laws are restrictive in others. Citizens in the United Kingdom must, upon request, give keys for decryption of personal systems to authorities. Failing to do this can result in imprisonment for up to two years, without evidence of other criminal activity.\n\nThis legislative key-surrender tactic can be circumvented using automatic rekeying of secure channels through rapid generation of new, unrelated public and private keys at short intervals. Following rekeying, the old keys can be deleted, rendering previously used keys inaccessible to the end-user, and thus removing the user's ability to disclose the old key, even if they are willing to do so. Technologies enabling this sort of rapidly rekeyed encryption include public-key cryptography, hardware PRNGs, perfect forward secrecy, and opportunistic encryption. Many apps commonly in use today on mobile devices around the world employ such encryption. The only ways to stop this sort of cryptography is to ban it completely (any such ban would be unenforceable for any government that is not totalitarian, as it would result in massive invasions of privacy, such as blanket permission for physical searches of all computers at random intervals), or otherwise raise barriers to its practical use (be they technological or legal). Such barriers represent a difficulty and risk to the users of such cryptographic technology which would limit and potentially prevent its widespread adoption. Generally, it is the threat of prosecution which limits the use and proliferation of a technology more so than the ease-of-use of a technology in and of itself.\n\nCrypto-anarchism is an ideology that seeks to create and deploy information infrastructure that, by design, is unable to comply with authoritarian requests to break the participating individuals' secrecy of correspondence.\n\nCrypto-anarchism relies heavily on plausible deniability to avoid censorship. Crypto-anarchists create this deniability by sending encrypted messages to interlinked proxies in computer networks. A payload of routing information is bundled with the message; the message is encrypted with each one of the proxies', and the receiver's, public keys. Each node can only decrypt its own part of the message, and only obtain the information intended for itself. That is, from which node it got the message, and to which node it should deliver the message. With only access to this information, it is thought to be very difficult for nodes in the network to know what information they are carrying or who is communicating with whom. Peers can protect their identities from each other's by using rendevouz onions or similar, digital signatures, etc. Who originally sent the information and who is the intended receiver is considered infeasible to detect, unless the peers themselves collaborate to reveal this information. See mix networks, onion routing and anonymous P2P for more information.\n\nAnonymizing communication protocols makes it difficult to know who is connected to any particular service or pseudonym. Because summary punishment for crimes is mostly illegal, it is difficult to stop any potential criminal activity in the network without enforcing a ban on strong cryptography.\n\nDeniable encryption and anonymizing networks can be used to avoid being detected while sharing illegal or sensitive information, that users are too afraid to share without any protection of their identity. The information being shared could be anything from anti-state propaganda, whistleblowing, organization of narcotics distribution, Illegal pornographic content, distribution of reports from political dissidents, anonymous monetary transactions, etc.\n\nUntraceable, privately issued electronic money and anonymous Internet banking exists in these networks. Digital Monetary Trust and Yodelbank were examples of two such anonymous banks that were later put offline by their creators. Pecunix is an anonymous (submitting personal information when opening an account is optional) gold bank operating on the Internet.\n\nUkash is an e-money network. Cash in amounts up to £500/€750 can be swapped for a 19-digit Ukash voucher in payment terminals and retail outlets.\n\nBitcoin is a currency generated and secured by peer-to-peer networked devices that maintain a communal record of all transactions within the system that can be used in a crypto-anarchic context. The idea behind bitcoin can be traced to \"The Crypto Anarchist Manifesto\".\n\nSilk Road was an anonymous market operated using the Tor network. Similarly, Assassination Market is a Tor-based market operated by a self-described crypto-anarchist going by the pseudonym Kuwabatake Sanjuro.\n\nOpenBazaar is an open source project developing a protocol for e-commerce transactions in a fully decentralized marketplace. It uses the cryptocurrency bitcoin and was inspired by a hackathon project called DarkMarket.\n\nAnonymous trading is easier to achieve for information services that can be provided over the Internet. Providing physical products is more difficult as the anonymity is more easily broken when crossing into the physical world: The vendor needs to know where to send the physical goods. Untraceable money makes it possible to ignore some of the laws of the physical world, as the laws cannot be enforced without knowing people's physical identities. For instance, tax on income for online services provided via the crypto-anarchists networks can be avoided if no government knows the identity of the service provider.\n\nIn \"The Cyphernomicon\", Timothy C. May suggests that crypto-anarchism qualifies as a form of anarcho-capitalism: \n\nAnother quote in the cyphernomicon defines crypto-anarchism. Under the title \"What is Crypto Anarchy?\", May writes:\n\n"}
{"id": "33312375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33312375", "title": "DDL intercettazioni", "text": "DDL intercettazioni\n\nDDL Intercettazioni or the Wiretapping Bill is a piece of legislation put periodically before the Italian Parliament, but never passed through.\n\nIn the XVI legislature, that version of the bill provided for a measure (paragraph 29), found to be in violation of free speech by the public opinion: after the public outcry, it has never been approved by Parliament.\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Criminal Law calculated that in 2006, a higher proportion of Italians had had their phones tapped than citizens of any other European country. Opposing the confidentiality of information sources, the press often obstructs the only way for the acquisition of evidence about the news leaking of the wiretapped talks and for the identification of the 'Deep Throat'.\n\nAfter the SISMI-Telecom scandal, in the government were raised \"fears of a maxi-blackmail against the politics\": so it was adopted a first decree in order to destroy captured illegally wire-taps. The Constitutional Court stroke down the main provisions of this decree.\nBy the way, prime minister Romano Prodi complained the political use of the wiretapping leaks; his government proposed a Bill on this issue, but it has never passed through as law.\n\nPrime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and his allies have been subject of a number of wire-taps which have been published. For instance, in December 2007 the audio recording of a phone call between Berlusconi, then leader of the opposition parties, and Agostino Saccà (general director of RAI) were published by the magazine \"L'espresso\", attracting strong criticism of Berlusconi from several media sources.\n\nThe law was proposed by the Berlusconi IV Cabinet and presented by Italian Minister of Justice Angelino Alfano in 2008, approved by the Camera in 2009, then modified by the Italian Senate and brought up again for approval at the Camera in October 2011. Supporters argued that courts were authorising the practice of wiretapping too often, and that the media should not be privy to the results. Berlusconi said in 2010 that legislation was necessary to protect the privacy of Italian citizens.\n\nThe controversy largely centered around paragraph 29 of the proposed bill which was being debated in the Chamber of Deputies of the Italian parliament.\n\nThe proposed bill would have empowered anyone who believes themselves to have been offended by the content of a publication or website, even if the content were true, to enforce publication of a reply, uneditable and uncommented, in the same place and with equal prominence of the related content, with no right of protest against the requested rewrite or any inaccuracies contained, within 48 hours and without any prior evaluation of the claim by a judge. If after 48 hours the reply hadn't been published, the person requesting the reply may eventually appeal to a civil court which would assess the request and evaluate the disputed content. The sanction would be a fine between €9,500 and €12,000. According to editors of the Italian Wikipedia:\n\nItalian journalists went on strike on 9 July 2010, in protest over the wiretapping bill.\n\nAll pages on the Italian version of Wikipedia on 4 October 2011 were redirected to a statement opposing the proposed legislation. The statement is available in , , , , , , , , , , and .\n\nDespite its approval in Senate, the Bill was never approved by the Chamber of Deputies during the XVI Legislature and was not repeated in the next parliamentary term.\n\nJustice Minister Andrea Orlando, on 20 April 2016, said: \"Wiretaps are means of investigation absolutely essential; there are steps that must be turned into legislative acts which have to avoid misuse and their dissemination even when they are not about crimes. I think they go transposed the circular of the prosecution offices addressing the issue (...) The advantage is that the law does not change with the change of the attorney. If there was a pronouncement of the \"Consiglio superiore della magistratura\" (CSM) might help to have a consistent practice\".\n\nThis issue has been dealt with in a bill proposed by the Chamber of deputies; passed through in the Senate, became law authorizing Government to decree in this matter.\n\n"}
{"id": "5571214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5571214", "title": "Election commission", "text": "Election commission\n\nAn election commission is a body charged with overseeing the implementation of election procedures. The exact name used varies from country to country, including such terms as \"\"electoral commission\", \"central election commission\"\",'\" or \"\"electoral court\". Election commissions can be independent, mixed, judicial or executive. They may also be responsible for electoral boundary delimitation. In federations there may be a separate body for each subnational government. The election commission has a duty to perform election related activities in an orderly manner. For election related problems, Election Commission is responsible.\n\nIn the independent model the election commission is independent of the executive and manages its own budget. Countries with an independent election commission include Australia, Canada, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand and the United Kingdom. In some of these countries the independence of the election commission is constitutionally guaranteed e.g. section 190 of the Constitution of South Africa.\n\nIn the branch model the election commission is often called an electoral branch, and is usually a constitutionally-recognized separate branch of government, with its members appointed by either the executive or the legislative branch. Countries with an electoral branch include Bolivia, Costa Rica, Panama, Nicaragua and Venezuela.\n\nIn the mixed-model there is an independent board to determine policy, but implementation is usually a matter for an executive department with varying degrees of supervision by the independent board. Countries with such a model include Cameroon, France, Germany, Japan, Senegal and Spain.\n\nIn the executive model the election commission is directed by a cabinet minister as part of the executive branch of government, and may include local government authorities acting as agents of the central body. Countries with this model include Denmark, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia. In the United States, elections for federal, state, and local offices are run by the executive branch of each state government - see, for example, the Division of Elections of the Florida Department of State.\n\nIn the judicial model the election commission is closely supervised by and ultimately responsible to a special \"electoral court\"\". Countries with such a model include Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1577043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1577043", "title": "Electronic Frontier Canada", "text": "Electronic Frontier Canada\n\nElectronic Frontier Canada (EFC) is a Canadian on-line civil rights organization founded to ensure that the principles embodied in the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms remain protected as new computing, communications, and information technologies are introduced into Canadian society.\n\nEFC was founded in January, 1994 and later became incorporated under the Canada Corporations Act as a Federal non-profit corporation. The letters patent was submitted December 29, 1994, and recorded on January 18, 1995. EFC is not formally affiliated with the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), which is based in San Francisco, although it shares many of their goals about which the groups communicate from time to time. EFC is focused on issues directly affecting Canadians, whereas the EFF has a clear American focus.\n\nBriefly, EFC's mandate is to conduct research into issues and promote public awareness in Canada regarding the application of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms to new computer, communication, and information technologies, such as the Internet. The aim is protect freedom of expression and the right to privacy in cyberspace.\n\nRecent activity has included a submission to the Canadian government concerning the Internet Service Provider wiretapping legislation reforms known as the Lawful Access proposals, and intervention in the BMG Canada Inc. and others v. Doe and others file-sharing case, where an Ontario Court refused to allow the Canadian Recording Industry Association and several major record labels from obtaining the subscriber information of ISP customers alleged to have been infringing copyright.\n\nThe EFC appears to have been inactive since 2004 (based on the last updates to their website).\n\n"}
{"id": "1628365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628365", "title": "Electronic services delivery", "text": "Electronic services delivery\n\nElectronic services delivery or ESD refers to providing government services through the Internet or other electronic means. It is related to e-services and e-government.\n\nE-service (or eservice) is a highly generic term usually referring to ‘The provision of services via the Internet (the prefix 'e' standing for ‘electronic’, as it does in many other usages), thus e-Service may also include e-Commerce, although it may also include non-commercial services (online), which is usually provided by the government.’ (Alexei Pavlichev & G. David Garson, 2004: 169-170; Muhammad Rais & Nazariah, 2003: 59, 70-71).\n\n‘An umbrella term for services available on the Internet, e-Service include e-Commerce transaction services for handling online orders, application hosting by application service providers (ASPs) and any processing capability that is obtainable on the Web.’ (Computer Desktop Encyclopedia, 2009)\n\nE-Service or 'electronic service' constitutes the online services available on the Internet, whereby a valid transaction of buying and selling (procurement) is possible, as opposed to the traditional websites, whereby only descriptive information are available, and no online transaction is made possible.' (Jeong, 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "216330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216330", "title": "Excuse", "text": "Excuse\n\nIn jurisprudence, an excuse is a defense to criminal charges that is distinct from an \"exculpation\". Justification and excuse are different defenses in a criminal case (See Justification and excuse). Exculpation is a related concept which reduces or extinguishes a person's culpability and therefore a person's liability to pay compensation to the victim of a tort in the civil law.\n\nThe \"excuse\" provides a mitigating factor for a group of persons sharing a common characteristic. Justification, as in justifiable homicide, vindicates or shows the justice. Thus, society approves of the purpose or motives underpinning some actions or the consequences flowing from them (see Robinson), and distinguishes those where the behavior cannot be approved but some excuse may be found in the characteristics of the defendant, e.g. that the accused was a serving police officer or suffering from a mental illness. Thus, a justification describes the quality of the act, whereas an excuse relates to the status or capacity (or lack of it) in the accused. These factors can affect the resulting judgment which may be an acquittal, or in the case of a conviction may mitigate sentencing. An excuse may also be something that a person or persons use to explain any criticism or comments based on the outcome of any specific event.\n\nThe executive and legislative branches of modern states enact policy into laws which are then administered through the judicial system. Judges also have a residual discretion to excuse individuals from liability if it represents a just result. When considering the consequences which are to be imposed on those involved in the activities forming the subject matter of the common law or legislation, governments and judges have a choice:\nTo be \"excused\" from liability means that although the defendant may have been a participant in the sequence of events leading to the prohibited outcome, no liability will attach to the particular defendant because they belong to a class of person exempted from liability. In some cases, this will be a policy of expediency. Hence, members of the armed forces, the police or other civil organizations may be granted a degree of immunity for causing prohibited outcomes while acting in the course of their official duties, e.g. for an assault or trespass to the person caused during a lawful arrest or for an ambulance driver exceeding the speed limit in an emergency. Others are excused by virtue of their status and capacity. Others may escape liability because the quality of their actions satisfied a general public good. For example, the willingness to defend oneself and others, or property from injury may benefit society at large. Albeit that the actions of a vigilante fall outside the formal controls that would seek to ensure reasonable use of force in state-appointed police officers, such people may accidentally find themselves interrupting the commission of a crime and their actions in defence of their own or another's interests is justified out of expediency as opposed to having to wait until a police officer arrives before help can be rendered. Whilst the jurisprudential importance of the distinction between justification and excuse defenses is clear, legally they have the same effect, acquittal, and there is an ongoing debate about whether the distinction makes any practical difference.\n\nAn \"exculpation\" is a defense in which a defendant argues that despite the fact they committed and are guilty of the crime, tort, or other wrong and have a liability to compensate the victim, they should be exculpated because of special circumstances that operated in favor of the defendant at the time they broke the law.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7213934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7213934", "title": "Execution van", "text": "Execution van\n\nThe execution van, also called a mobile execution unit, was developed by the government of the People's Republic of China and was first used in 1997. Mobile gas vans were invented and used by the Soviet secret police NKVD in the late 1930s during the Great Purge. The prisoner is strapped to a stretcher and executed inside the van. The van allows death sentences to be carried out without moving the prisoner to an execution ground. The vans also require less manpower per execution, requiring four persons to assist with the injection and are mobile. The PRC states that the vans are more humane than previous forms of execution. Human-rights groups predict that the execution rate in China will increase because of mobile capital punishment.\n\nAfter the 1997 decision to legalize lethal injection as a form of execution, PRC officials began using execution vans across China. Becoming popular in 2006, these officials state that the vans are cost-effective by allowing communities without the money to build dedicated death rows to kill prisoners without the costs associated with sending prisoners away for death. Former Chinese judge and current lawyer Qiu Xingsheng argues that \"some places can't afford the cost of sending a person to Beijing—perhaps $250—plus $125 more for the drug.\" Because Beijing is the only place where the drug is manufactured, the vans have allowed localities to administer the death sentence where the crime took place. Estimates place the number of execution vans in operation at around 40; the PRC has not confirmed this number.\n\nA converted 24-seat bus, the execution van keeps the appearance of a normal police van on the outside with no markings indicating its purpose. The rear of the vehicle houses a windowless chamber where the execution takes place. Several cameras are present and feed closed-circuit televisions in the front of the van; a recording can be made if desired. The bed itself slides out of the wall under its own power, on which the convicted person is strapped down. A syringe is put into the arm by a technician and a police official administers the injection by pressing a button.\n\nThe PRC government claims that this is a more humane form of killing people, being far less painful than firing squad executions. Zhao Shijie, president of the Yunnan Provincial High Court, was quoted as praising the new system: \"The use of lethal injection shows that China's death penalty system is becoming more civilized and humane.\" While the vans have moved China away from previous days of large public executions, human rights activists counter that they are \"like government-sanctioned death squads\", and allow for an increased number and a higher efficiency of executions.\n\nThere is concern that mobile execution units have made organ harvesting much easier and more profitable, as lethal injection does not damage the body. In March 2006 the Ministry of Health banned the sale of organs. It is believed that this has had no effect. Activists claim that the bodies are quickly cremated, which makes it impossible for family members to determine if organs have in fact been removed.\n\nOn December 22, 2003, organized crime leader Liu Yong was executed in an execution van in a controversial ruling. Liu was convicted of 32 charges and sentenced to death in 2000, but was granted a reprieve after appealing the case on the grounds that his confession was forced. Liu had been given a retrial by the Supreme Court on December 17. It was the first time the Supreme Court had bypassed China's two-trial system in which two trials are permitted and the verdict of the second trial may be appealed by either side.\n\nOn March 17, 2006, billionaire Yuan Baojing was executed in a van for the arranged murder of a blackmailer.\n\nThe former Director of the State Food and Drug Administration of the People's Republic of China Zheng Xiaoyu was executed in an execution van on July 10, 2007, for corruption. Zheng tried to appeal the sentence, but the court ruled that he was a \"great danger\" to the country and its reputation.\n\n"}
{"id": "16344646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16344646", "title": "Fee splitting", "text": "Fee splitting\n\nFee splitting is the practice of sharing fees with professional colleagues, such as physicians or lawyers, in return for being sent referrals\n\nThis is essentially the payment of a commission to the referrer with the express intention of ensuring that the referring doctor directs referrals of patients to the payee.\n\nIn most parts of the world, the practice is considered unethical and unacceptable, hence fee splitting is often covert. The reason it is believed not to be in the interests of patients is because it represents a conflict of interest which may adversely affect patient care and well-being, since patients will not necessarily be referred to the most appropriate doctor to provide their on-going care but will instead be referred to those doctors or hospitals with whom the referring doctor has a \"fee splitting\" or commission payment type of arrangement.\nIt is also called as 'CUT' (also spoken as Cee-You-Tee) practice in many parts of the world including India for its reference to a 'cut' from the patients bill.\n\nMany countries do not allow promotion of health services via mass media, advertisements and other direct promotions, and in a significant way, information on pricing and quality of care institutions and medicines reaches to patient through their primary care physician, many of whom indulge in a referral fee split unethical practice to refer a patient for business to a higher specialist, brand prescription and admissions.\n\nThe situation in the US is not entirely clear \n\nAccording to the World Medical Association,\n\nThe AMA Code provides that payment by or to a physician solely for the referral of a patient is unethical as is the acceptance by a physician of payment of any kind, and in any form, from any source such as a pharmaceutical company or pharmacist or a manufacturer of medical appliances and devices, for referring a patient to that source. Another section specifies that clinics, laboratories, hospitals or other health care facilities which compensate physicians for referral of patients are engaged in fee-splitting, which is unethical.\n\nAmong its \"Definitions of Unprofessional Conduct\", the \"West Hudson Psychiatric Society Virtual Newsletter\" (1997) lists \"Offering, giving or receiving a fee for the referral of a patient (fee splitting), or permitting any person other than an employee or associate to share in your fee, who has not provided an appropriate service directly under your supervision\".\n\nHowever, the practice, or something resembling it, tends to be tolerated - in \"Medicine, Money, and Morals: Physicians' Conflicts of Interest\" by Marc A. Rodwin, forms of fee splitting and commission paying for referrals remain common in the USA and are in effect tolerated by key overseeing bodies such as the American Medical Association and Joint Commission International, or JCI.\n\nAccording to their website, the Joint Commission (JCI) have no published view on the issue of fee splitting, and in fact the Joint Commission stopped trying to provide guidance on medical ethics to American hospitals many years ago, preferring to concentrate on less challenging areas of healthcare assessment, despite the vast importance of medical ethics to patient safety. It is not clear if JCI operate to a similar level of standards when working outside of the USA.\n\nThe popular group marketing website groupon and other daily deal businesses have received the green light from some U.S. state bar associations, most notably North Carolina's State Bar formal opinion. However, approved in some jurisdictions, Alabama and other state bar associations have chosen to dissent from the NC state bar ruling, and have formally ruled in opposition to allowing daily deal websites as an ethical form of group marketing. Some state bar associations have yet to formally choose an opinion.\n\nFee splitting and similar practices are considered unequivocally unacceptable for the medical profession in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe practice is considered unethical, and offenders can be disciplined and even \"struck off the medical register\" (that is, lose their license to practice medicine). This is not to say that it does not happen.\n\nFee splitting in the medical profession of various sorts has been alleged in Malta, Singapore, Thailand, and India.\n\n"}
{"id": "37179331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37179331", "title": "Fixed-price contract", "text": "Fixed-price contract\n\nA fixed-price contract is a type of contract where the payment amount does not depend on resources used or time expended. This is opposed to a cost-plus contract, which is intended to cover the costs with additional profit made. Such a scheme is often used by military and government contractors to put the risk on the side of the vendor, and control costs. However, historically when such contracts are used for innovative new projects with untested or undeveloped technologies, such as new military transports or stealth attack planes, it can and often results in a failure if costs greatly exceed the ability of the contractor to absorb unforeseen cost overruns. \nFixed prices can require more time, in advance, for sellers to determine the price of each item. However, the fixed-price items can each be purchased faster, but bargaining could set the price for an entire set of items being purchased, reducing the time for such bulk purchases treated as a whole batch. Also, fixed-price items can help in pre-determining the value of the entire inventory, such as for insurance estimates.\n\nHowever, such contracts continue to be popular despite a history of failed or troubled projects, though they tend to work when costs are well known in advance. Some laws have been written which prefer fixed-price contracts, however, many maintain that such contracts are actually the most expensive, especially when the risks or costs are unknown.\n\nAirbus's German chief executive Tom Enders has noted the fixed-price contract for the A400M transport aircraft was a disaster rooted in naivety, excessive enthusiasm and arrogance, stating, \"If you had offered it to an American defence contractor like Northrop, they would have run a mile from it\". He stated that unless the contract was renegotiated, the project must be abandoned.\n\nThe U.S. A-12 Avenger II development contract was a fixed-price incentive contract, not a fixed price contract, with a target price of $4.38 billion and ceiling price of $4.84 billion. It was to be a unique, stealthy, flying wing design. On 7 January 1991, the Secretary of Defense canceled the program. It was the largest contract termination in DoD history. Rather than saving costs, the craft was projected to consume up 70 percent of the U.S. Navy's aircraft budget within three years.\n\nThe U.S. Boeing KC-46 Pegasus contract is a fixed price contract. Due to its history of cost overruns, it is an example of how fixed price contracts place the risk upon the vendor, in this case Boeing. Total cost overruns for this aircraft have totaled about $1.9 billion. However, Boeing was able to absorb those costs and has gained US Air Force approval to put the KC-46 into production.\n\n"}
{"id": "1611609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1611609", "title": "Four Trials", "text": "Four Trials\n\nFour Trials is a book by former U.S. Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and his co-writer, John Auchard. The book was published by Simon & Schuster in December 2003, before Edwards unsuccessfully ran for the Democratic Party presidential nomination and, later, vice president on the Democratic Party ticket with fellow Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts in the 2004 presidential election.\n\nThe book is autobiographical in nature and relates the story of four civil trials where Edwards acted as an attorney for people seeking damages (petitioners) against large institutions and insurance companies (respondents). Interspersing the stories of each trial are remembrances from Edwards's childhood, time at the University of North Carolina School of Law, and meeting his wife, Elizabeth Anania Edwards. Edwards also wrote about his children (including Wade, his teenage son who died in a car accident). \n\nThe four trials are covered in four chapters: \"E.G.\" (an alcoholic who was treated by an aggressive aversion therapy that caused coma and brain damage), \"Jennifer\" (a woman whose child had serious injuries because her obstetrician didn't perform a Cesarean section), \"Josh\" (a young child whose parents were killed in a car crash by a speeding truck driver who was paid by the number of miles he drove), and Valerie Lakey (a girl, age five, who was seriously injured by a swimming pool drain due to a faulty design).\n\n"}
{"id": "66191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66191", "title": "Fourth Geneva Convention", "text": "Fourth Geneva Convention\n\nThe Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, commonly referred to as the Fourth Geneva Convention and abbreviated as GCIV, is one of the four treaties of the Geneva Conventions. It was adopted in August 1949. While the first three conventions dealt with combatants, the Fourth Geneva Convention was the first to deal with humanitarian protections for civilians in a war zone. There are currently 196 countries party to the 1949 Geneva Conventions, including this and the other three treaties.\n\nIn 1993, the United Nations Security Council adopted a report from the Secretary-General and a Commission of Experts which concluded that the Geneva Conventions had passed into the body of customary international law, thus making them binding on non-signatories to the Conventions whenever they engage in armed conflicts.\n\nThis sets out the overall parameters for GCIV:\n\nArticle 2 states that signatories are bound by the convention both in war, armed conflicts where war has not been declared, and in an occupation of another country's territory.\n\nThe scope of article 2 is broad:\n\nIn the commentary to the article Jean Pictet writes:\n\nArticle 3 states that even where there is not a conflict of international character, the parties must as a minimum adhere to minimal protections described as: non-combatants, members of armed forces who have laid down their arms, and combatants who are \"hors de combat\" (out of the fight) due to wounds, detention, or any other cause \"shall in all circumstances be treated humanely\", with the following prohibitions:\n\n\nArticle 4 defines who is a \"protected person\":\n\nIt explicitly excludes \"Nationals of a State which is not bound by the Convention\" and the citizens of a neutral state or an allied state if that state has normal diplomatic relations \"within the State in whose hands they are\".\n\nA number of articles specify how \"protecting powers\", \"ICRC\" and \"other humanitarian organizations\" may aid \"protected persons\".\n\nThe definition of \"protected person\" in this article is arguably the most important article in this section because many of the articles in the rest of GCIV only apply to \"protected persons\".\n\nArticle 5 provides for the suspension of persons' rights under the Convention for the duration of time that this is \"prejudicial to the security of such State\", although \"such persons shall nevertheless be treated with humanity and, in case of trial, shall not be deprived of the rights of fair and regular trial prescribed by the present Convention.\"\n\nThe common interpretation of article 5 is that its scope is very limited. Derogation is limited to individuals \"definitely suspected of\" or \"engaged in activities hostile to the security of the State.\" In paragraph two of the article, \"spy or saboteur\" is mentioned.\n\nThe list of basis on which distinction might be drawn is not exhaustive.\n\nA protected person may not have anything done \"of such a character as to cause physical suffering or extermination... the physical suffering or extermination of protected persons in their hands. This prohibition applies not only to murder, torture, corporal punishments, mutilation and medical or scientific experiments not necessitated by the medical treatment\". While popular debate remains on what constitutes a legal definition of torture, the ban on corporal punishment simplifies the matter; even the most mundane physical abuse is thereby forbidden by Article 32, as a precaution against alternate definitions of torture.\n\nThe prohibition on scientific experiments was added, in part, in response to experiments by German and Japanese doctors during World War II of whom Josef Mengele was the most infamous.\n\nUnder the 1949 Geneva Conventions, collective punishment is a war crime. By collective punishment, the drafters of the Geneva Conventions had in mind the reprisal killings of World War I and World War II. In the First World War, the Germans executed Belgian villagers in mass retribution for resistance activity during the Rape of Belgium. In World War II, both the Germans and the Japanese carried out a form of collective punishment to suppress resistance. Entire villages or towns or districts were held responsible for any resistance activity that occurred at those places. The conventions, to counter this, reiterated the principle of individual responsibility. The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) Commentary to the conventions states that parties to a conflict often would resort to \"intimidatory measures to terrorize the population\" in hopes of preventing hostile acts, but such practices \"strike at guilty and innocent alike. They are opposed to all principles based on humanity and justice.\"\n\nAdditional Protocol II of 1977 explicitly forbids collective punishment. But as fewer states have ratified this protocol than GCIV, GCIV Article 33 is the one more commonly quoted.\n\nArticles 47-78 impose substantial obligations on occupying powers. As well as numerous provisions for the general welfare of the inhabitants of an occupied territory, an occupier may not forcibly deport protected persons, or deport or transfer parts of its own civilian population into occupied territory (Art.49).\n\nThe reference in the last paragraph to “deportation”, is commonly understood as the \"expulsion\" of foreign nationals, whereas the expulsion of nationals would be called \"extradition, banishment\" or \"exile\". If ethnic groups are affected by \"deportation\", it may also be referred to as population transfer. \"Transfer\" in this case literally means to move or pass from one place to another. The International Committee of the Red Cross has expressed the political opinion, “that international humanitarian law prohibits the establishment of settlements, as these are a form of population transfer into occupied territory.”\n\nIn The Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949. Commentary, Jean Pictet writes:\n\nArticle 56 describes the medical obligations the occupying power has in the occupied territory:\n\nArticle 78 deals with internment. It allows the occupying power for \"imperative reasons of security\" to \"subject them [protected persons] to assigned residence or to internment.\" The article does not allow the occupying power to take collective measures: each case must be decided separately.\n\nThis part contains \"the formal or diplomatic provisions which it is customary to place at the end of an international Convention to settle the procedure for bringing it into effect are grouped together under this heading (1). They are similar in all four Geneva Conventions.\n\nThe ICRC commentary on the Fourth Geneva convention states that when the establishment of hospital and safety zones in occupied territories were discussed reference was made to a draft agreement and it was agreed to append it as an annex I to the Fourth Geneva Convention.\n\nThe ICRC states that \"the Draft Agreement has only been put forward to States as a model, but the fact that it as carefully drafted at the Diplomatic Conference, which finally adopted it, gives it a very real value. It could usefully be taken as a working basis, therefore, whenever a hospital zone is to be established.\"\n\nThe ICRC states that Annex II is a \"...draft which, according to Article 109 (paragraph 1) of the Convention, will be applied in the absence of special agreements between the Parties, deals with the conditions for the receipt and distribution of collective relief shipments. It is based on the traditions of the International Committee of the Red Cross which submitted it, and on the experience the Committee gained during the Second World War.\"\n\nAnnex III contains an example internment card, letter and correspondence card:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77492", "title": "Good faith", "text": "Good faith\n\nGood faith (), in human interactions, is a sincere intention to be fair, open, and honest, regardless of the outcome of the interaction. While some Latin phrases lose their literal meaning over centuries, this is not the case with \"bona fides\"; it is still widely used and interchangeable with its generally accepted modern-day English translation of \"good faith\". It is an important concept within law and business. The opposed concepts are bad faith, \"mala fides\" (duplicity) and perfidy (pretense). In contemporary English, the usage of \"bona fides\" is synonymous with credentials and identity. The phrase is sometimes used in job advertisements, and should not be confused with the \"bona fide\" occupational qualifications or the employer's good faith effort, as described below.\n\n\"Bona fides\" is a Latin phrase meaning \"good faith\". Its ablative case is \"bona fide\", meaning \"in good faith\", it is often used as an adjective to mean \"genuine\". While today \"fides\" is concomitant to faith, a more technical translation of the Latin concept would be something like \"reliability\", in the sense of a trust between two parties for the potentiality of a relationship. In ancient Rome \"bona fides\" was always assumed by both sides, had implied responsibilities, and both legal and religious consequences if broken. Fides was one of the original virtues to be considered a religious \"divinity\" in Roman paganism.\n\nIn law, \"bona fides\" denotes the mental and moral states of honesty and conviction regarding either the truth or the falsity of a proposition, or of a body of opinion; likewise regarding either the rectitude or the depravity of a line of conduct. As a legal concept \"bona fides\" is especially important in matters of equity. The concept of \"bona fide\" is also proclaimed by the original version of the Magna Carta. In contract law, the implied covenant of good faith is a general presumption that the parties to a contract will deal with each other honestly and fairly, so as not to destroy the right of the other party or parties to receive the benefits of the contract. In insurance law, the insurer's breach of the implied covenant may give rise to a legal liability known as insurance bad faith.\n\nMost US jurisdictions view breaches of implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing solely as a variant of breach of contract. Linguistically, in the US, American English usage of \"bona fides\" applies it as synonymous with credentials, professional background, and documents attesting a person's identity, which is not synonymous with \"bona fide\" occupational qualifications. More recently, other common law countries have begun to adopt good faith as a general principle. In the UK, the High Court in \"Yam Seng Pte Ltd v Int Trade Corp Ltd\" expressed this preference. In Canada, the Supreme Court declared in \"Bhasin v. Hrynew\" that good faith was a general organizing principle.\n\n\"Bona fide\" occupational qualifications (employer's good faith effort) are qualities or attributes that employers are allowed to consider when making decisions on the hiring and retaining of employees. An employer's good faith effort is used as an evaluation tool by the jurisdiction during the annual program review process to determine an employer's level of commitment to the reduction goals of the CTR Law. United States federal and state governments are required by affirmative action (and other such laws) to look for disabled, minority, female, and veteran business enterprises when bidding public jobs. Good faith effort law varies from state to state and even within states depending on the awarding department of the government. Most good faith effort requires advertising in state certified publications, usually a trade and a focus publication. Other countries such as Canada have similar programs.\n\nPublic wikis depend on implicitly or explicitly assuming that its users are acting in good faith. Wikipedia's principle \"Assume Good Faith\" (often abbreviated AGF) has been a stated guideline since 2005. It has been described as \"the first principle in the Wikipedia etiquette\". According to one study of users' motives for contributing to Wikipedia, \"while participants have both individualistic and collaborative motives, collaborative (altruistic) motives dominate.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39126660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39126660", "title": "History of equity and trusts", "text": "History of equity and trusts\n\nThe history of equity and trusts concerns the development of the body of rules known as equity, English trust law and its spread into a modern body of trust law around Commonwealth and the United States.\n\nThe law of trusts was constructed as part of \"equity\", a body of principles made by the Courts of Chancery, which sought to correct the strictness of the common law. The trust was an addition to the law of property, in the situation where one person held legal title to property, but the courts decided it was fair, just or \"equitable\" that this person be compelled to use it for the benefit of another. This recognised a split between legal and beneficial ownership: the legal owner was referred to as a \"trustee\" (because he was \"entrusted\" with property) and the beneficial owner was the \"beneficiary\".\n\nPossible earliest concept of equity in land held in trust is the depiction of this ancient king ( trustor ) which grants property back to its previous owner ( beneficiary ) during her absence, supported by witness testimony ( trustee ). In essence and in this case, the king, in place of the later state ( trustor and holder of assets at highest position ) issues ownership along with past proceeds ( equity ) back to the beneficiary:\n\nRoman law had a well-developed concept of the trust (\"fideicommissum\") created by wills. However, these testamentary trusts did not develop into the \"inter vivos\" (living) trusts which apply while the creator lives. This was created by later common law jurisdictions. The \"waqf\" is a similar institution in Islamic law, restricted to charitable trusts.\n\nThe law of trusts first developed in the 12th century from the time of the crusades under the jurisdiction of the King of England. The \"common law\" regarded property as an indivisible entity, as it had been done through Roman law and the continental version of civil law. Where it seemed \"inequitable\" (i.e. unfair) to let someone with legal title hold onto it, the King's representative, the Lord Chancellor who established the Courts of Chancery, had the discretion to declare that the real owner \"in equity\" (i.e. in all fairness) was another person. When a landowner left England to fight in the Crusades, he conveyed ownership of his lands in his absence to manage the estate and pay and receive feudal dues, on the understanding that the ownership would be conveyed back on his return. However, Crusaders often encountered refusal to hand over the property upon their return. Unfortunately for the Crusader, English common law did not recognize his claim. As far as the King's courts were concerned, the land belonged to the trustee, who was under no obligation to return it. The Crusader had no legal claim. The disgruntled Crusader would then petition the king, who would refer the matter to his Lord Chancellor. The Lord Chancellor could decide a case according to his conscience. At this time, the principle of equity was born. The Lord Chancellor would consider it \"unconscionable\" that the legal owner could go back on his word and deny the claims of the Crusader (the \"true\" owner). Therefore, he would find in favour of the returning Crusader. Over time, it became known that the Lord Chancellor's court (the Court of Chancery) would continually recognize the claim of a returning Crusader. The legal owner would hold the land for the benefit of the original owner, and would be compelled to convey it back to him when requested. The Crusader was the \"beneficiary\" and the acquaintance the \"trustee\". The term \"use of land\" was coined, and in time developed into what we now know as a \"trust\".\n\nIn medieval English trust law, the settlor was known as the \"feoffor to uses\" while the trustee was known as the \"feoffee to uses\" and the beneficiary was known as the \"cestui que use\", or \"cestui que trust\".\n\n\n\"Antitrust law\" emerged in the 19th century when industries created monopolistic trusts by entrusting their shares to a board of trustees in exchange for shares of equal value with dividend rights; these boards could then enforce a monopoly. However, trusts were used in this case because a corporation could not own other companies' stock and thereby become a holding company without a \"special act of the legislature\". Holding companies were used after the restriction on owning other companies' shares was lifted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47613845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47613845", "title": "Hong Kong insolvency law", "text": "Hong Kong insolvency law\n\nHong Kong insolvency law regulates the position of companies which are in financial distress and are unable to pay or provide for all of their debts or other obligations, and matters ancillary to and arising from financial distress. The law in this area is now primarily governed by the Companies (Winding Up and Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance (Cap 32) and the Companies (Winding Up) Rules (Cap 32H). Prior to 2012 Cap 32 was called the Companies Ordinance, but when the Companies Ordinance (Cap 622) came into force in 2014, most of the provisions of Cap 32 were repealed except for the provisions relating to insolvency, which were retained and the statute was renamed to reflect its new principal focus.\n\nUnder Hong Kong law, the term insolvency is usually used with reference to companies, and bankruptcy is used in relation to individuals. Personal bankruptcy is regulated by the Bankruptcy Act (Cap 6).\n\nThe objectives underpinning Hong Kong insolvency law have been described as follows:\n\nA company may go into winding up either voluntarily or by order of the court. A company enters voluntary winding up by passing a special resolution to appoint a liquidator. If the company is solvent when it enters voluntary winding up it is said to be in \"members' voluntary winding up\", and if it is insolvent it is said to be in \"creditors' voluntary winding up\".\n\nA company may be wound up by the courts on several grounds. These are:\n\nIn practice the most important grounds tend to be insolvency (the fourth ground) and just and equitable winding up (the sixth ground). Just and equitable winding up is usually unrelated to the solvency of the company.\n\nA petition to the court for the winding up of a company may be presented by the company itself, or by any creditor or creditors (including any contingent or prospective creditor or creditors), contributory or contributories or the trustee in bankruptcy or the personal representative of a contributory. For these purposes a contributory broadly means a shareholder or other type of member of the company. Liquidation is a class right, and so the court will not normally make an order upon the application of a creditor if it is opposed by a majority of creditors. However the court may give lower weight to creditors who are connected to the company as either directors or shareholders when considering what is in the best interests of the creditors as a whole.\n\nIf the court makes an order winding up the company, then any disposition of the property of the company and any transfer of the company's shares made after the commencement of the winding up, is, unless the court otherwise orders, void. However the commencement of winding up is deemed to \"relate back\" to the time when the petition was presented. Accordingly, all dispositions of property or transfers of shares made between the time of the lodging of the petition and the making of the order are set aside unless the court orders.\n\nFurther, when a winding up order has been made no action or proceeding may be commenced or proceeded with against the company except by leave of the court. However this will not normally prevent a secured creditor from enforcing its security through an out of court process. Where a secured creditor wishes to enforce their security through court action, leave will normally be granted.\n\nThe test for insolvency under Hong Kong law is whether a company is unable to pay its debts. A company is deemed to be unable to pay its debts in the following circumstances:\n\nWhere a company is deemed to be unable to pay its debts, this has a number of other effects in addition to the ability for a creditor to present a petition to wind it up. It also means that the directors are expected to discharge their duties in the best interest of the company's creditors rather than its shareholders; that transactions may be potentially vulnerable as voidable transactions, and that the right of creditors to set-off mutual debts may become impaired in relation to debts which are incurred during the period of insolvency.\n\nOnce a liquidator is appointed the company is said to be in liquidation, or in winding up. The duty of the liquidator is to take possession and control of all of the assets which the company is beneficially entitled to, sell (or liquidate) them, and then distribute the proceeds among the creditors in accordance with the statutory scheme of priorities. The liquidator also has wide powers, including (amongst other things) the power to (a) to bring or defend any action or other legal proceeding in the name and on behalf of the company, and (b) to carry on the business of the company, so far as may be necessary for the beneficial winding up thereof.\n\nThe priority of claims is broadly as follows:\nAs between themselves, the claimants in each level rank \"pari passu\" as between themselves. Preferential claims are mostly sums due to employees (up to a limit) and certain sums due to Government.\n\nSecured creditors do not normally participate in the liquidation process and will normally have a prior ranking claim to any assets over which they have a security interest (and so will normally take ahead of all the claimants above). As between themselves, the priorities between claimants is determined by the law of priority as to who has a first ranking claim. The one exception to this is floating charge holders. By statute floating charge holders are subordinated to preferred creditors, although under complex rules still rank ahead of liquidator's claims.\n\nIf after the payment of all of the creditors' claims there are any surplus funds left over, they are distributed to the members of the company in accordance with their entitlements. Thereafter the company is dissolved and ceases to exist.\n\nThe liquidator has no better claim to any assets than the company did. Accordingly, this means the liquidator is not entitled to have recourse to:\n\nThe liquidator has powers to disclaim any onerous property or unprofitable contracts. Any person suffering loss by such disclaimer may claim against the insolvent estate as an unsecured creditor.\n\nCuriously the Companies (Winding Up and Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance makes no express provision for insolvency set-off within the statute itself, and instead, the relevant provisions are incorporated by reference from the Bankruptcy Ordinance. Any sums which are owed by a creditor to the company are set-off against sums which are owed by the company to that creditor. In order for insolvency set-off to operate there must be strict mutuality between the claims (in that the company and creditor must both be beneficially entitled to the relevant debts, not merely claimants as agents or trustees for another party). The rules of insolvency set-off are mandatory, and it is not possible to contract out of them. The right to insolvency set-off is not if the creditor was aware that a winding-up petition had been presented at the time credit was extended to the company.\n\nIf, upon the application for the appointment of a liquidator, there are concerns about potential dissipation of assets, or misconduct on the part of the directors, then the court may order the appointment of a provisional liquidator. Provisional liquidation is essentially an \"emergency procedure\".\n\nIn Hong Kong there are three types of provisional liquidators. There are \"traditional\" provisional liquidators, appointed under section 193; there are also provisional liquidators appointed pursuant to a members' voluntary liquidation under section 228A, and there are \"Panel T\" appointments under section 194(1A) whereby the Official Receiver is appointed as provisional liquidator.\n\nIn practice, most instances of applications for a provisional liquidator involve some kind of fraud or other misconduct. The applicant will normally need to show that (a) it is likely that a winding up order will be made at the hearing of the petition; and (b) the company's assets are at risk prior to the hearing of the petition (which includes either dissipation of the company's assets, or the potential loss or destruction of the company's books and records. Accordingly, it will normally be necessary to establish either (or both) that: (a) the company is clearly insolvent, and it is likely that a winding up order will be made at the hearing of the petition; and/or (b) there has been the type of misconduct that would justify a just and equitable winding up. An appointment of a provisional liquidator may also be made where it is in the public interest.\n\nSince the decision in the \"Legend\" case in 2005 provisional liquidation may not be used as a means of shielding the company from creditor's claims to facilitate a restructuring in Hong Kong, although prior to that date the practice was relatively common.\n\nSeparately from the provisions relating to the avoidance of transaction between the petition for winding up and the order, there are several other grounds upon which a transaction entered into by the company during the \"twilight period\" prior to going into liquidation may be challenged. Conceptually these powers to avoid transactions are sometimes viewed as a logical extension of the anti-deprivation rule.\n\n\nHowever, one category of voidable transactions which is a feature of many other common law jurisdictions but which is \"not\" part of Hong Kong law is the power to challenge transactions as undervalue transactions.\n\nSeparately, although not part of the insolvency regime in Hong Kong, there is a power to set aside transactions which were entered into with intent to defraud creditors under section 60 of the Conveyancing and Property Ordinance (Cap 219). This does not affect the title to any property obtained by a party in good faith and without notice of the intention to defraud.\n\nIf a company becomes insolvent, then the board of directors ceases to owe its duties to the shareholders - it owes its duty to act in the best interests of the creditors, being the persons who are beneficially entitled to the company's assets.\n\nIf the company subsequently goes into liquidation, then the directors remain in office but they are effectively divested of all of their powers of management and the liquidator takes control and custody of the assets and the business and affairs of the company.\n\nIf in the course of the winding up of a company it appears that any business of the company has been carried on with intent to defraud creditors of the company or creditors of any other person or for any fraudulent purpose, the court may, if it thinks proper so to do, declare that any persons who were knowingly parties to the carrying on of the business in manner aforesaid shall be personally responsible, without any limitation of liability, for all or any of the debts or other liabilities of the company as the court may direct.\n\nUnder Hong Kong law there is at present no liability for what is commonly referred to as wrongful trading or trading while insolvent in other jurisdictions.\n\nIn the absence of any specific corporate rehabilitation process, schemes of arrangement have been described as \"the only tool currently available to facilitate the rescue of distressed companies\". Schemes of arrangement are regulated under the Companies Ordinance.\n\nBroadly, when a company in financial difficulties, it will put together a proposal to be presented to its creditors and shareholders. This proposal will usually seek to compromise and/or extend the company's debts, often with the aim of enabling the business continuing to operate. Part of the debt may be converted into equity. Under a scheme creditors usually need to be willing to accept less than the full amount that they are owed. Normally they will only do so when the scheme offers a prospect of better rates of return than a liquidation.\n\nIn order for the proposed scheme to be approved, it is necessary for each class of creditors or members to approve the scheme by both (a) 75% in value, and (b) a majority in number. How each class is defined is determined by the court, but the litmus test is the members of each class must have a sufficient \"community of interest\" that their views on the scheme should be considered together.\n\nFor many years the practice in Hong Kong was to try and shield the company from its creditors whilst trying to implement a scheme of arrangement by asking the courts to appoint a provisional liquidator, but that practice was effectively abolished by the courts in 2005.\n\nHong Kong has not introduced the UNCITRAL Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency into domestic legislation. Accordingly, cross-border insolvency cases are still conducted upon an \"ad hoc\" basis using a form of modified universalism. The courts do have power to wind up a foreign company if it can be shown to have a sufficient connection with Hong Kong. However the court are very reluctant to exercise this power. Normally it will be necessary to establish that:\n\nHowever, where a letter of request is issued by a foreign court, the Hong Kong courts may demonstrate more flexibility in relation to the making of an order with respect to a foreign company.\n\n"}
{"id": "5075416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075416", "title": "Illinois Methamphetamine Precursor Control Act", "text": "Illinois Methamphetamine Precursor Control Act\n\nThe Methamphetamine Precursor Control Act (MPCA, ) is an Illinois state law that was signed into law on November 16, 2005, and took effect on January 15, 2006. The MPCA is an act used to create significant barriers such as the requirement to present ID to purchase cold medication that contains pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, Tylenol Cold and Claritin D) which could be used to produce methamphetamine. This is one of many state laws regulating the supply of pseudoephedrine that preceded the federal Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005.\n\nThe Act was introduced as Senate Bill 273.\n\nIn 2008, the Illinois state legislature amended the MPCA creating a regional authority to establish a pilot program that targets individuals who are circumventing the law. As a result, the Southern Illinois counties of Williamson, Jackson, Union, Saline, Franklin, and Johnson, comprise the Illinois Meth Precursor Control Pilot Authority (IMPCPA). The IMPCPA administers methamphetamine precursor control strategies that assist law enforcement in reducing the number of methamphetamine manufacturing labs in Southern Illinois. This strategy employs an automated pseudoephedrine purchase tracking system that identifies purchase patterns associated with smurfing. Smurfing is a tactic used by small batch labs to obtain significant amounts of pseudoephedrine. Individuals, known as smurfs, make small pseudoephedrine purchases at numerous pharmacies. These legal purchases are then combined to manufacture meth.\n\n"}
{"id": "4190558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4190558", "title": "Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors' Benefits Convention, 1967", "text": "Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors' Benefits Convention, 1967\n\nInvalidity, Old-Age and Survivors' Benefits Convention, 1967 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1967, with the preamble stating:\n\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the revision of the Old-Age Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention, 1933, the Old-Age Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933, the Invalidity Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention, 1933, the Invalidity Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933, the Survivors' Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention, 1933, and the Survivors' Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933...\n\nThe convention is a revision of:\n\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 16 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "1699136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699136", "title": "Lex fori", "text": "Lex fori\n\n"}
{"id": "4426016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4426016", "title": "Louis-Alexandre Expilly de la Poipe", "text": "Louis-Alexandre Expilly de la Poipe\n\nLouis-Alexandre Expilly de la Poipe (24 February 1743 in Brest – 22 May 1794 in Brest) was rector of Saint-Martin-des-Champs near Morlaix in Léon, North Finistère. He was one of two deputies elected in 1788 by the Léon assembly of clergy to represent them at the Estates-General convened by Louis XVI.\n\nAt the National Constituent Assembly, Expilly was president of the Ecclesiastical Committee working on the Civil Constitution of the Clergy, which in 1790 reorganised the Church in France, notably by creating one diocese per département. The Constitution also stated that bishops should in future be elected, not appointed by the Vatican.\n\nOn 30 September 1790 the Bishop of Cornouaille (also known as the Bishop of Quimper) died. His successor would be the first bishop to be chosen by the new constitutional rules. On 1 November, the electoral body for Finistère was convened at Quimper Cathedral despite opposition from the cathedral chapter. Under Canon law, the chapter or one of their number could act as bishop until a new one was appointed.\n\nIn a third round of voting, Expilly was supported by 233 of the 380 electors while 125 votes went to the Bishop of Léon, Monsignor Jean-François de La Marche, in exile in London as a dissenter from the new Civil Constitution, and known as a \"refractory\" priest. Expilly was proclaimed the first constitutional bishop of France.\n\nChurch traditionalists would not support an elected bishop and so there was no-one to consecrate him. The Archbishop of Rennes refused, and in the end, Expilly had to go to Paris to be made a bishop by Talleyrand, the revolutionary Bishop of Autun. The consecration eventually took place on 24 February 1791.\n\nIn April 1791, Pope Pius VI issued an encyclical condemning Expilly and Talleyrand.\n\nExpilly was connected with the Girondist \"Commission des douze\" (Committee of Twelve), a group which stirred up opposition by a vigorous campaign of arresting \"conspirators\". He was imprisoned in June 1793, but released in August after modifying his position. However, he did not survive much longer. On 22 May 1794 he was guillotined in Brest, the last person executed that day as he had been giving absolution to his fellows waiting at the scaffold. There would be no Bishop of Quimper/Cornouaille for the next four years.\n\n\n\n\n\"This article is largely based on the \"\n"}
{"id": "18184670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18184670", "title": "Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone", "text": "Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone\n\nMiller Canfield, P.L.C., doing business as Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone (founded in 1852), is an American law firm based in Detroit, Michigan. In 2014, the firm was ranked 165th largest in the United States in terms of attorney headcount by the National Law Journal. It is an international firm with offices in the United States, Canada, Mexico and China, and Poland.\n\nThe headquarters is located at 150 West Jefferson in Downtown Detroit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32176535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32176535", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Finland)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Finland)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice (, ) is one of the 12 ministries which comprise the Finnish Government. Headed by the Minister of Justice, it is responsible for maintaining the legal safeguards necessary for the successful operation of democracy and fundamental rights of the inhabitants of Finland.\n\nThe ministry's budget for 2018 is €940,743,000. It has 261 direct employees.\n\nThe drafting of the most central laws, the functioning of the judicial system, and the enforcement of sentences belong to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Sentences are enforced by the Criminal Sanctions Agency (, ), which administers the country's imprisonment and rehabilitation system. The Ministry of Justice of Finland might oversee the administration of justice in the Åland Islands.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and its administrative sector are headed by the Minister of Justice, assisted by the Permanent Secretary. The incumbent Minister of Justice is Antti Häkkänen.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice has three departments: The Law Drafting Department, the Department of Judicial Administration, and the Criminal Policy Department.\n\nUnits, separate from the three aforementioned departments, are: the Unit for Democracy, Language Affairs and Fundamental Rights; the Media and Communications Unit; the Administrative Unit; the Economy Unit; the Information Management Unit; the Internal Audit Unit; and the Management Support Unit.\nThe administrative sector of the ministry consists of the courts, Criminal Sanctions Agency and several other offices and boards (below):\n\nThe task of the Law Drafting Department is to promote the aims and the operational concept of the Ministry of Justice by means of legislation. Legislative drafting is one of the Ministry's main tasks. \n\nThe drafters are responsible for the entire life cycle of the project, starting from the preliminary work to the education and follow-up during the implementation phase. A considerable amount of the Department's work concerns the legislative cooperation within the EU as well as other international collaboration in addition to the national projects. \n\nIn addition to the projects within the Ministry and the Department, the Law Drafting Department takes part in the preparation of the other Ministries' projects and answers for the general development and guidance relating to legislative drafting in the Government. One important duty is to give statements on draft statutes prepared by the other Ministries. The Unit for General International and EU Matters provides legal counselling in EU matters and assists the management of the Ministry in EU and international matters.\n\nThe Department's Unit for Legislative Inspection revises bills prepared by the Ministry of Justice and draft decree proposals with little general significance.\n\nThe Department of Judicial Administration partakes in the development and strategical planning of legal protection policy. \nThe Department is in charge of the performance management of and operational preconditions for the courts, legal aid, guardianship services, the Consumer Disputes Board, and the Bankruptcy Ombudsman, as well as those relating to the authority functions of the Legal Register Centre. This includes the administrative structures of the organisations and their operations, employer and personnel management, facility management, and personnel training. The department is also responsible for the Enforcement Service's operational preconditions and the strategic planning and guidance of its operations. \n\nThe Department acquires sector-independent ICT services within its sector from the Legal Register Center and makes yearly sector-specific service agreements with the LRC. \n\nThe Department of Judicial Administration is responsible for statute drafting within its sector and for the operational preconditions of the Judicial Appointments Board. It also partakes in international collaboration related to its sector. \nThe Department monitors conventions and statutes on collaboration in international administration of justice and performs the central authority functions of the Ministry in accordance with them. The Unit for International Administration of Justice provides bureaus within the Ministry's administrative branch with guidance and training and supports them in the daily preparation of legal aid documents. \n\nThe Department develops and consolidates the administrative branch's participation in civilian crisis management.\n\nThe Department of Criminal Policy is responsible for the strategic planning and development of criminal policy and crime prevention, including the duties of the secretariat of the National Council for Crime Prevention, the development of the position of crime victims, and the development of anti-corruption measures. \n\nThe Department is responsible for the development of the criminal sanction system and the preparation of legislation pertaining to it, for the operational guidance of the Criminal Sanctions Agency and the prosecution service, and for law drafting and monitoring the enforcement of legislation concerning the Criminal Sanctions Agency and the prosecution service. \n\nFurthermore, the Department answers for international crime prevention cooperation within its sector and coordinates legal policy research. \n\nThe Unit for Democracy, Language Affairs and Fundamental Rights is responsible for promoting citizen participation and for the duties assigned to the Ministry of Justice in the Election Act, the Act on Political Parties and the Language Act. The Unit also oversees the enforcement, planning and monitoring of duties concerning fundamental rights policy, as well as the cultural autonomy of the Sami people and the coordination of Sami matters. \n\nIn the beginning of 2015, the national and international duties relating to the promotion of equality and non-discrimination in accordance with the new Non-Discrimination Act, along with the Advisory Board for Ethnic Relations and all running projects related to the duties, were transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Unit for Democracy, Language Affairs and Fundamental Rights at the Ministry of Justice. \n\nOther representatives and organs affected by the reform were the Ombudsman for Equality and the National Discrimination and Equality Tribunal, the Ombudsman for Children and the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, as they were transferred to the Ministry of Justice and placed under the performance guidance of the Unit for Democracy, Language Affairs and Fundamental Rights.\n\nThe Media and Communications Unit is responsible for managing and developing the external communication of the Ministry of Justice. The aim of the Media and Communications Unit is to support the work of the Ministry and promote the goals of legal policy. \n\nThe Administrative Unit is responsible for the personnel administration and general administration, except for duties managed by other departments or units and duties that were transferred to the Government Administration Department on 1 March 2015. The Unit also takes care of certain separate tasks, such as the processing of applications for pardon, the maintenance of the electronic legislative database, and the publication of the Statute Book of Finland. \n\nThe Economy Unit is in charge of the general guidance, preparation and development of the operations and finances of the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice, one of its central tasks being the preparation of the budget for the Ministry's administrative branch.\n\nThe Information Management Unit supports the management and development of the Ministry's and its administrative branch's operations and oversees the joint information management services. \nThe Unit is responsible for consolidating the performance management of the Legal Register Centre, for the performance management tasks relating to the Legal Register Centre's data system functions, as well as for the acquisition of the administrative branch's IT services that are not restricted to a given sector.\n\nThe Internal Audit Unit supports the Ministry's management in developing internal control and provides information on the adequacy and sufficiency of the internal control within the administrative branch.\n\nThe Management Support assists the management of the Ministry in strategic preparation, development of the Ministry's management systems and is in charge of the preparations and secretarial duties related to the directors' meetings.\n\n"}
{"id": "16066506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16066506", "title": "Multimarket contact", "text": "Multimarket contact\n\nMultimarket contact occurs when firms meet the same rivals in multiple markets. When firms compete with each other in more than one market, their competitive behavior may differ from that of single-market rivals. Multimarket competition may result in the reduction of the competitive intensity among rivals, an effect known as mutual forbearance.\n\nMultimarket contact gives a firm the option to respond to actions or attacks by a rival not only in the market being challenged, but also in other markets where they both compete. As a result, multimarket competitors may hesitate to attack in one market for fear of retaliation in other markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "46744814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46744814", "title": "National Association of Testing Authorities", "text": "National Association of Testing Authorities\n\nThe National Association of Testing Authorities, Australia (NATA) was established in 1947 in response to a call for the formation of a national testing services body to ensure the munitions which the government was manufacturing during the Second World War met a sufficiently high standard. \n\nNATA is a private not-for-profit company, governed by a Board that has representation from its members, and from industry, government and professional bodies.\n\nIn 1988, NATA's role as an accreditation body was recognised by the Australian Government in a Memorandum of Understanding which was renewed in 2014.\n\nIts head office is situated in Rhodes, New South Wales and it has offices in four other capital cities of Australia. It employs 180 staff and over three thousand volunteer technical experts who assist NATA in the assessment of facilities and on its various technical committees.\n\nNATA provides accreditation services to inspection bodies and producers of certified reference materials. It offers both \"traditional\" testing programs and \"specialised\" programs in areas such as medical and veterinary testing, forensic science, medical imaging, reference material production and proficiency testing.\n\nNATA monitors members' compliance with the OECD Principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP).\nNATA formally recognises whether facilities produce reliable technical results.\n\nNATA represents Australia in a number of high-level International fora related to laboratory, inspection body, reference material producer and proficiency testing service provider accreditation practices and policies.\n\nNATA represents Australia through:\n\n"}
{"id": "603032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603032", "title": "Negative option billing", "text": "Negative option billing\n\nNegative option billing is a business practice in which customers are given goods or services that were not previously provided, and must either continue to pay for the service or specifically decline it in advance of billing.\n\nThis is, for example, the model on which mail order services, such as Columbia House, and other book clubs are structured.\n\nAccording to the Federal Trade Commission, unsolicited goods are considered a gift, and the recipient is not required to pay for or return them.\n\nThis is different to situations where a customer signs up for a service or club without reading fine print and agrees to purchase goods through the mail.\n\nA notable example is the class-action lawsuit against Scholastic Corporation by consumers who felt \"harassed, deceived, intimidated, and threatened\" when they tried to cancel membership.\n\nIn Canada, Parliament attempted to outlaw the practice in 1996 after a public outcry the previous year when most cable television companies added a package of new specialty services to their lineups in this manner. This had previously been the standard manner of adding new channels to cable television service, but had not previously attracted the type of controversy that was raised by the 1995 channel launch, in part because the 1995 launch entailed a large number of channels which launched concurrently, whereas previous additions had only involved one or two channels at a time.\n\nMP Roger Gallaway introduced a private-member's bill in 1996 to ban the practice which passed first reading, but died on the order paper when the House was dissolved for the 1997 elections. It was raised again in 1999, and was passed. Michael Janigan of the Public Interest Advocacy Centre stated:\n\nThe concern associated with the practice of negative option billing has its origins in the nature of a contract of purchase and sale, as recognized in common law. As every first year law student learns, such a contract consists of an offer and an acceptance. The history of consumer protection statutes is a chronicle of legislators attempting to ensure that the offer is conveyed without misrepresentation by the vendor to a purchaser who has an opportunity to make an informed choice to accept or refuse the offer. This is because a contract that is made with a consumer who is unaware of key elements of the contract such as price, quantity and quality of the goods to be delivered is subversive of the efficiency of the market as a whole.\nThe Ontario government also outlawed the practice in July 2005. Ontario's regulations prohibiting negative option billing do not protect consumers from owing for goods or services that they have agreed to receive. Additionally, Alberta has outlawed negative billing in 1998. \n\nIn the UK the law which applies is \"The Consumer Protection (Distance Selling) Regulations 2000\" (2000 No. 2334), specifically section 24 \"Inertia Selling\". (This effectively replaces the repealed s.1 of the \"Unsolicited Goods and Services Act\" (1971, as amended).) In summary:\n(2) The recipient [of unsolicited goods] may, as between himself and the sender, use, deal with or dispose of the goods as if they were an unconditional gift to him.\n\n(3) The rights of the sender to the goods are extinguished.\n"}
{"id": "35714069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35714069", "title": "Net bias", "text": "Net bias\n\nNet bias (or network bias) is the counter-principle to net neutrality, which indicates differentiation or discrimination of price and the quality of content or applications on the Internet by ISPs. Similar terms include data discrimination and network management.\n\nNet bias occurs when an ISP drops packets or denies access based on artificially induced conditions such as simulating congestion or blocking packets, despite the fact that ample capacity exists to carry traffic. Examples (models) of net bias include tiered service (specialized service), metering, bandwidth throttling, and port blocking. These forms of net bias are achieved by technical advancements of the Internet Protocol. \n\nThe idea of net bias can arise from political and economic motivations and backgrounds, which create some concerns regarding data discrimination arising from political and economic interests. Non-discrimination means that one class of Internet customers may not be favored over another. According to this view, the Internet should continue \"to operate in a nondiscriminatory manner, both in terms of how subscribers access and receive Internet transmitted services and how content and other service providers reach subscribers.\" Every internet user should have equal upload and download capabilities on every network.\n\nThe principle of equal treatment of traffic, called \"Net Neutrality\" by proponents, is not enshrined in law in the United States but is supported by some regulations. Most of the debate around the issue has centered on tentative plans, now postponed, by large Internet carriers to offer preferential treatment of traffic from certain content providers for a fee. Network neutrality is a set of rules that forbid network owners from discriminating against independent applications (instead of against competing ISPs, as with open access). \n\nTiered service is one of the strategies employed to change Internet pricing and involves an intent to have flexibility in quality of service (QoS) on the Internet. Tiered service allows ISPs to create and manage speed-related subscriber tiers. In other words, this model partitions bandwidth and provides different levels of peering requirements and offers transit clients different amounts of throughput. This model stems from the perception of technical and economic limitations in the broadband industry. As technology develops, the demand for faster and higher performance of communication networks and the customer demand for bandwidth-intensive services, such as streaming videos, have increased. These situations result in network congestion that is mainly driven by a small number of heavy users. Moreover, ISPs argue that existing flat-rate plans do not enable them to cover the additional cost required to manage heavier network traffic. Accordingly, this model may allow ISPs to reach different market segments with different data plans, targeting the different types of needs based on speed tiers, volume data caps, and other customizable conditions.\n\nMetered service (also called pay-per-use) is another strategy utilized to change Internet pricing other than tiered service. This model represents a usage-based pricing scheme that charges users based on their packet usages. Metered service contrasts with the model of paying a flat fee on a recurring basis to have unlimited access to a given good or service. This metering scheme not only satisfies ISPs in terms of recovering cost, but also enables users to rethink their usage patterns with a price signal. This pricing plan can benefit low-volume users because metered service might create new and possibly lower price points for those users. On the other hand, research shows that price is the most important factor for users, among other factors such as Internet speed, which indicates that broadband users are price-sensitive. Price-sensitivity explains why few consumers like having to think about how much they are using the Internet. In addition, from the users’ perspective, one study suggested that consumers might have far less tolerance for unsolicited advertising, spam emails, banner advertising, and third party users of throughput when they are required to consider the cost for the amount of traffic. However, from the ISPs’ perspective, one study indicates that a usage-based pricing scheme does not cause ISPs’ discrimination incentives against content providers because ISPs are able to gain sufficient profits for the network investment to meet market needs.\n\nBandwidth throttling is a tactic that allows information and telecommunication companies to regulate network traffic and control network congestion. This type of measure is viewed as a limitation on users’ upload and download speeds (rates) of content. Comcast, one of the major ISPs, conducted bandwidth throttling on 49% of its customers who were using bandwidth for P2P file sharing. After Comcast’s actions were exposed, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ordered the company to stop throttling on a large scale. In particular, this form of net bias frequently targets heavy mobile users who consume large amounts of content (packets), like unlimited data plans. Mobile companies such as AT&T and Verizon have their own throttling policy because they are sometimes required to limit users’ traffic to maintain the quality of the entire network. Recently, however, throttling has become a controversial issue because some companies infringe upon this policy. For example, AT&T had to pay US$850 to one customer to compensate for slowing down data speeds because they violated the terms of unlimited smartphone data contracts. In response to these complaints from smartphone subscribers, AT&T announced that they would change their policy for unlimited data users.\n\nPort blocking includes the deliberate decision by ISPs to deny onward transmission of traffic, or delivery of traffic, to an intended recipient. ISPs do not have a legitimate reason to deny onward packet transmission to specific customers of other ISPs. The ISPs have contractually committed to carry any and all packets from the former ISP without regard for the identity and marketplace success of that ISP’s customers (on a first-come, first-served basis). However, an ISP is more likely to have higher incentives for port blocking when the ISP is vertically and horizontally integrated because those integrated companies attempt to enhance the marketplace attractiveness of corporate affiliates. For example, AT&T blocked Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) because the company was concerned that the VoIP service might threaten its wireless and wired telephony service. Thus, an ISP can engage in port blocking for VoIP traffic when giving preference to an affiliated telephone company.\n\nTechnological advancements allowed these types of net bias to function, while the technology was not fully matured enough to apply new pricing or QoS schemes in the past. In other words, as network technologies develop, ISPs implemented technological innovations that can prioritize packets and meter them when faced with increasing bandwidth requirements, using systems to distinguish properties of data packets. Packet analysis enables ISPs to monitor the Internet traffic, and can be performed by a computer program or hardware component that intercepts and logs traffic passing over a digital network. There are many technologies for network management such as SNMP or NETCONF.\n\nThe idea of network flexibility in pricing, service provisioning, and QoS tends to be based on economic and political considerations. These considerations show that net bias (network flexibility) makes economic sense and may not violate a reasonable expectation of net neutrality.\n\nISPs have been increasingly investing in the infrastructure necessary to transport the bits and packets that correspond to commercially successful content and services. As the Internet becomes more capable of covering most converged services, and those services require wide bandwidth, high QoS guarantees, and time-sensitivity, ISPs must make substantial investments to the network. Moreover, at the early stage of the Internet’s appearance, ISPs were able to concentrate on “connectivity” over “cost” because the government supported the development of the Internet. However, as this support has been removed and ISPs have sought to recoup their investment, cost recovery has become substantially more important to ISPs. In addition, incumbent carriers like AT&T, whose business involves both the Internet and telephony service, needed the new powerful source of revenue because traditional telephony became less profitable and its market share declined. In this situation, the incumbent carriers recognize that the significant profits accrued by Internet content and application providers such as Google can bring carriers the new revenue streams they are seeking. Accordingly, some of the major ISPs believe that the best way to achieve their goals is through the partitioning of network bandwidth and the prioritizing of bitstreams by offering different QoS. Likewise, some researchers argue that these strategies could work, emphasizing that ISPs should have unregulated pricing freedom, which may lead to promoted innovation, risk tasking, and diverse services and features. In addition, Yoo pointed out that ISPs could offer undropped packets and timely packet delivery even under truly congested conditions when they have the option of offering a premium peak service. Professor Lawrence Lessig also indicates that consumer-tiering, which provides end users with different throughput speeds or permissible volume of traffic, could recoup infrastructure investments and create the necessary incentives for increased investment.\n\nAs the FCC has perceived the need to create more incentives for incumbent carriers to invest in broadband, the commission has taken apart the access requirements and pricing model that force incumbent carriers to offer services at a low rate through the Telecommunications Act of 1996. In addition, the FCC has removed the traditional regulatory burdens for common carriers that provide Internet access and services. These deregulatory initiatives have freed the carriers of having to share and interconnect facilities providing information services. Some proponents of net bias argue that ISPs do not have legal obligation to operate as common carriers and that the network’s interconnection arrangements result from commercial necessity. Moreover, in terms of establishing the network’s interconnection, ISPs argue that they used their resources to maintain and upgrade the network for customers, and so far popular websites have received a “free ride” from these resources. Advocates of net bias also propose lawful pricing. Network flexibility for pricing, interconnection, and QoS characterize the initiatives as lawful price discrimination that can provide consumers with greater flexibility and potentially lower bills for low-volume users. Advocates of net bias also argue that combining simple routing with superior service offers options that are no different from the multiple classes of service provided by most airlines or the qualitative difference between free and toll highways. Consequently, some experts contend that the option of offering network flexibility provides a means for consumers and carriers to utilize premium services.\n\nThe concept of freedom of information has emerged in response to state sponsored monitoring, surveillance, and censorship of the Internet. Internet censorship includes the control or suppression of publishing or accessing information on the Internet. Data discrimination may also occur on a national level to censor political, 'immoral' or religious Internet content.\n\nFor example, China and Saudi Arabia both filter content on the Internet, preventing access to certain types of websites. Singapore has network blocks on more than 100 sites. In Britain, telecommunication companies block access to websites that depict sexually explicit images of children. In the United Arab Emirates , Skype was being blocked. In Norway, some ISPs use a voluntary filter to censor websites that the police (Kripos) believe to contain images of abuse of children. Germany also blocks foreign sites for copyright and other reasons. In the U.S., public institutions (e.g. libraries and schools), by law, block material that is related to the exploitation of children, and 'obscene and pornographic' material, unless they do not receive funding. The network filters also block sites and material relating to women’s health, gay and lesbian rights groups, and sexual\neducation for teenagers.\n\nThe Internet has been historically regarded as an open and “best effort” network. Internet routers must forward packets on a first-come, first-served basis without regard for the analysis of data or content inside the packet. This aspect of the Internet has increased its value, contributing not only to the quality of our lives, but also to economic growth around the globe. Based on these notions, forms of net bias have created some concerns regarding discrimination from economic and political perspectives. In other words, unreasonable net bias occurs when an ISP conducts a discrimination strategy against a specific type of packet without a reasonable and fair financial or operational justification.\n\nUsers enjoy the high level of value when they are able to access the Internet on an unmetered and flat-rate basis. Users can also obtain attractive content subsidized by advertisers who employ the flat-rate subscription option by adding to the downloaded packet payload. This value proposition provides users with the benefits of the Internet, emphasizing connectivity with less regard for cost-related concerns. Likewise, the positive network effect — which refers to the process whereby more and more people adopt a service or buy a good, and as a result users receive enjoyable benefits and additional users are attracted to the Internet — created by the spread of the Internet is substantially beneficial. In the Internet, interlinking hundreds and thousands of networks reduces transaction costs and brings a flood of free information to subscribers. However, if major ISPs can freely block and degrade specific traffic streams, there would be societal losses as the Internet becomes more expensive and less productive. Proponents of net bias contend that market-based Internet access achieves efficient outcomes, such as creating innovation incentives for ISPs to invest in building and expanding networks. Nevertheless, opponents of net bias claim that allowing price and service discrimination may ruin the value of the Internet and enable ISPs to shut out competitors or other stakeholders who are unwilling or unable to pay surcharges. In other words, when large or powerful ISPs place a disproportionate financial burden on small and less financially sound ISPs and their subscribers by using forms of net bias like port blocking or tiered services, they may exacerbate the digital divide that separates people with easy and robust Internet service access opportunities from those without. One consumer group, Free Press, calls attention to a number of disadvantages that specialized services (tiered services) may produce. This organization argues that any form of prioritization on the open Internet would bring enormous disadvantages in terms of innovation, competition, investment, consumer choice, and free speech because this permission may enable ISPs to choose specific content/applications with respect to their own interests and thereby destroy the nature and value of the today’s open Internet. Free Press cautions that specialized services will result in unbalanced and unparalleled economic growth, which is utterly against the public interest.\n\nWhile a broad presumption pertaining to data discrimination is perceived censorship, those in favor of this practice claim that there are benefits. The ISPs are a business, and as such, “…correctly state that external, non-market driven constraints on their ability to price discriminate can adversely impact their incentive to invest in broadband infrastructure and their ability to recoup that investment.” There are times when it could make sense, in the eyes of the ISPs, to give preference to one type of content over another. For example, loading a plain text and image website is not nearly as strenuous as loading sites such as Hulu and YouTube. Frieden states that “Some Internet Service Providers (ISPs) seek to diversify the Internet by prioritizing bitstreams and by offering different quality of service guarantees. To some observers, this strategy constitutes harmful discrimination that violates a tradition of network neutrality in the switching, routing, and transmission of Internet traffic.” While the QoS argument is that network neutrality rules make allowances for network owners to practice some types of discrimination to protect the functioning of the network.\n\nThose who oppose data discrimination say that it hurts the growth of the Internet, as well as the economy that is rooted in the depths of the Internet model. “Instead of promoting competition, such picking of winners and losers will stifle the investment needed to perpetuate the Internet's phenomenal growth, hurting the economy.“\nIf, for example, telecommunication network operators blocked data \npackets of Voice-over-IP services that might substitute their own telephone services, this would not only discriminate against specific firms but also reduce competition and economic welfare. Technically, this would not be a problem. Although data packets are homogeneous with respect to switching and transmission treatment, type, source, and destination can be revealed and data packets be handled differently if a network operator prefers to do so. \nAnother problem is that the type of data that is given preferential treatment is up to the discretion of the ISP. This allows them to move data as they see fit, whether it be through a political, moral, any other such kind of \"lens\". This goes against the first amendment, the freedom of speech because by stopping certain kinds of information from reaching the end user, they are censoring content. It is not the place of the ISP to censor content from the people.\n\nThe real threat to an open Internet is at the local network (the ends), where network owners can block information coming in from the inter-network, but it also is at the local network where the most harm can occur. Because of this, network neutrality rules allow some discrimination by the local network to protect itself, though it may not be based on content or type of application. For example, network owners want to protect their networks from being damaged. So, some discrimination is allowed to \"prevent physical harm to the local Broadband Network caused by any network attachment or network usage.\" This means that local network operators may not control which types of applications users choose to employ, what type of devices users use to access the network, or which type of legal content users choose to convey or consume. The only allowable restrictions are on applications that cause harm to the local network.\n\nProponents of network neutrality concede that network security is crucial enough to warrant making an exception to a network neutrality rule. Allowing network providers to deviate from neutrality only to the extent necessary to protect network trustworthiness is rooted in judicial and regulatory decisions and administrative rules that helped establish the principle of nondiscrimination as the core of network neutrality.\nSen. Al Franken has spoken out on FCC rulings “calling net neutrality the 'free speech issue of our time,'” Franken (D-MN) expressed his displeasure with the FCC’s recent net neutrality rules. ‘These rules are not strong enough,' he said, pointing out that paid prioritization was not banned and that wireless networks are allowed to discriminate at will. The rules mark the ‘first time the FCC has ever allowed discrimination on the Internet’ and they ‘will create essentially two Internets.’\n\nAnother important concept for marketers to understand is that of disparate impact. If a discrimination case is brought against your company, the plaintiff would have to show evidence of disparate impact.\n\nIn 2005, the FCC issued a Broadband Policy Statement (also known as the Internet Policy Statement) that offered guidance and insight into its approach to the Internet and broadband consistent with Congress’ direction. (FCC) The four principles of this statement are as follows:\n\nAt first glance, these principles appear noncontroversial in terms of standards regarding the freedom of the network. However, these principles do not address regulations with respect to the issues of differentiations in pricing, interconnection, and QoS. Further, the unregulated forms of net bias have the potential to create false congestion by the ISPs. More specifically, advanced Internet protocol technology can allow ISPs to fabricate congestion and drop packets when no real congestion takes place. In addition, existing peering and transit agreements between stakeholders such as small and large ISPs may lack a specific prohibition of deliberate packet loss.\n\nMany ISPs contend that major content providers such as Google or Yahoo! enjoy a free ride. AT&T, one of the major ISPs, stated that the current standard procedure for Internet pricing and interconnection has left the company burdened with having to create, maintain, and frequently upgrade an expensive bit transport infrastructure whereas content providers do not have to do the same. However, Rob Frieden points out that the ISPs’ practices of net bias, as they are based on a “free rider” consideration, may violate the principles of network freedom or even the peering and transit agreement between ISPs. Based on existing peering and transit agreements made by AT&T, Google is allowed to have its traffic delivered to AT&T subscribers free of charge, and AT&T is compensated for the traffic from other ISPs by the agreements. Moreover, if AT&T penalizes Google’s traffic from the various forms of net bias, it would jeopardize the principles of network freedom as well as violate its contractual commitment to its peers and transit customers who have paid for best efforts access to AT&T’s networks.\n\nTechnical and market convergence as well as deregulation by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 provided incentives for companies to integrate vertically and horizontally. As a result, those integrated companies have discrimination incentives such that they may try port blocking or unfair throttling to enhance the marketplace attractiveness of corporate affiliates. From this perspective, Free Press emphasized through its comments to the FCC Notice of Inquiry that specialized services should be provided with fairness, particularly in the vertically integrated environments of the information and telecommunication industry (e.g., Comcast, which has both content and broadband services). Consequently, concerns regarding discrimination raised the need of network neutrality regulations to preserve the open Internet and public interest and enable the Internet industry to survive and succeed.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Communications Commission does not permit data discrimination except for \"reasonable traffic management.\"\n\nThe Federal Communication Commission defines reasonable traffic management as follows:\nA network management practice is reasonable if it is appropriate and tailored to achieving a legitimate network management purpose, taking into account the particular network architecture and technology of the broadband Internet access service.\nIt is considered unreasonable for internet service providers to manage traffic by blocking applications or assigning quality of service based on source, destination, or unreasonable application provider payment. Regardless, there are currently no laws prohibiting internet service providers from offering different service plans that may restrict consumers' access to selected material. In June 2007 the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) published \"Broadband Connectivity Competition Policy\" which suggested that it may be beneficial to consumers if broadband providers would pursue a variety of business arrangements, including data prioritization, exclusive deals, and vertical integration into online content and applications. The report also suggests that government should move cautiously in implementing any changes to current regulations.\n\n\nDuring a hearing held by Rep. Greg Walden, one of the speakers put forth a question that needs to be addressed by the FCC, as well as other groups that are in support of Net Neutrality. The speaker said, \"If the mere threat of Internet discrimination is such a concern and if the FCC has done no analysis to demonstrate why one company has more market power than another, why would discrimination by companies like Google or Skype be any more acceptable than discrimination by companies like AT&T and Comcast?\" During the same hearing, a different member spoke up and quoted Section 230 of the Communications Act saying, \"...preserve the vibrant and competitive free market that presently exists for the Internet and other interactive computer services, unfettered by federal or state regulations.\" essentially saying that there should be laws in place so that the government knows how to handle its authority over the FCC and ISPs. He did not say that these laws are not laws meant for regulating what the FCC does, but how the FCC \"should\" act.\n\nIn 2005, a small North Carolina telecom company, Madison River Communications, blocked their DSL customers from using the Vonage VoIP service. Service was restored after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) intervened and entered into a consent decree that had Madison River pay a fine of $15,000. In this case, the FCC investigated allegations that Madison River violated nondiscriminatory obligations contained in the Communications Act, but the redefinition of broadband as an information service dramatically reduces the authority of regulators to deter this kind of competitive misconduct.\n\nAs Anti-Piracy\n\nWorldwide, the BitTorrent application is widely given reduced bandwidth or even in some cases blocked entirely. Worldwide, under heavy attack from spam e-mail, many e-mail servers no longer accept connections except from white-listed hosts. While few care about the rights of spammers, this means that legitimate hosts not on the list are often blocked.\n\nSave The Internet, an advocacy organization led by Free Press, is documenting situations in which ISPs have engaged in data discrimination.\n\n"}
{"id": "2994769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994769", "title": "North Eastern Reporter", "text": "North Eastern Reporter\n\nThe North Eastern Reporter and North Eastern Reporter Second are United States regional case law reporters. It is part of the National Reporter System created by John B. West for West Publishing Company, which is now part of Thomson West.\n\nThe \"North Eastern Reporter\" contains published U.S. state appellate court case decisions for:\n\nWhen cited, the \"North Eastern Reporter\" and \"North Eastern Reporter Second\" are abbreviated \"N.E.\" and \"N.E.2d\", respectively.\n"}
{"id": "11499193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11499193", "title": "Orphan film", "text": "Orphan film\n\nAn orphan film is a motion picture work that has been abandoned by its owner or copyright holder; also, any film that has suffered neglect.\n\nThe exact origin of the term orphan film is unclear. By the 1990s, however, film archivists were commonly using this colloquialism to refer to motion pictures abandoned by their owners. Before the end of the decade, the phrase emerged as the governing metaphor for film preservation, first in the United States, then internationally.\n\nHistorians and archivists define the term in both a narrow and a broad sense. A report from the Librarian of Congress, \"Film Preservation 1993,\" offered a first definition. As a category of so-called orphan works, orphan films are those “that lack either clear copyright holders or commercial potential” to pay for their preservation. However, a much wider group of works fall under the orphan rubric when the term is expanded to refer to all manner of films that have been neglected. The neglect might be physical (a deteriorated film print), commercial (an unreleased movie), cultural (censored footage), historical (a forgotten World War I-era production) or technical (footage from television commercials and series or music videos).\n\nThis broader conception is typically illustrated by a list of orphaned genres. In \"Redefining Film Preservation: A National Plan\" (1994), the Librarian of Congress enumerated newsreels, actuality footage, silent films, experimental works, home movies, independent fiction and documentary films, political commercials, amateur footage, along with advertising, educational and industrial films as culturally significant orphans. To this the National Film Preservation Foundation adds animation, ethnic films, anthropological footage, and fragments. (See \"What Are Orphan Films\".)\n\nWithin a decade the epithet was adopted by scholars and educators. In \"The Film Experience: An Introduction\" (2004), for example, Timothy Corrigan and Patricia White include a section on orphan films, defining them simply as \"Any sort of films that have survived but have no commercial interests to pay the costs of their preservation.\"\n\nDefined in this way, more films are orphans than not. Many are more accurately described as “footage,” recordings shot on celluloid but not intended to be completed works or theatrical releases. The millions of feet of home movies and newsreel outtakes alone outnumber the quantity of film stock used to make all of the feature films ever released by Hollywood studios.\n\nThe resurgent interest in these films is due to their rich value as cultural and historical artifacts. Documentarians, filmmakers, historians, curators, collectors and scholars have joined forces with archivists because they deem orphans not only historical documents, but also evidence of alternative, suppressed, minority or forgotten histories.\n\nSince 1999, hundreds of these devotees have gathered for the biennial Orphan Film Symposium]. \nIn their introduction to the anthology \"Mining the Home Movie\" (2008) Karen Ishizuka and Patricia Zimmermann assess the impact of these symposiums.\n\nAfter the fifth Orphan Film Symposium (\"Science, Industry & Education\") took place at the University of South Carolina (March 2006), New York University took up the project, incorporating it into the Department of Cinema Studies and its Moving Image Archiving and Preservation master's program at the Tisch School of the Arts. Orphans 6, 7, and 8 took place in New York City. The 2008 symposium focused on neglected films and videos by, about, against, and under \"the state.\" The 2010 edition, \"Moving Pictures Around the World,\" included speakers from 17 nations. In 2012, Museum of the Moving Image in Queens co-hosted the eighth symposium, \"Made to Persuade\". The ninth and tenth symposiums took place at major institutions outside of New York. EYE Film Institute Netherlands hosted Orphans 9 (\"The Future of Obsolescence,\" 2014) in Amsterdam, attracting attendees from 30 nations. Orphans 10 (\"Sound,\" 2016) convened at the Library of Congress Packard Campus for Audio-Visual Conservation in Culpeper, Virginia.\nIn 2001, members of these academic-archival professions began referring to an “orphan film movement.” As archivist-scholar Caroline Frick has written, some of the most active participants identify themselves as “orphanistas,” passionate advocates for saving, studying, and screening neglected cinema. In 2004, visual anthropologist Emily Cohen wrote that the movement's creative and intellectual ferment constituted an “Orphanista Manifesto.”\nMore pragmatically, in the United States the group's rising influence affected discourse and policies about copyright reform, joining the broader media reform movement. Examples of this include the 2003 Supreme Court case \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\" and the 2006 Copyright Office \"Report on Orphan Works\". In September 2008, the U.S. Senate passed a bill (S.2913) \"to provide a limitation on judicial remedies in copyright infringement cases involving orphan works,\" but the House of Representatives adjourned before addressing the measure.\n\nAlthough U.S. copyright stakeholders confine their discussion to the narrower definition of an orphan (a work with no identifiable rightsholder or whose rights holder cannot be located), the broader conception—an orphan film as a neglected object—continues to be used internationally. Film archivists working quite separately in different nations have used the orphan metaphor for a decade. At the Cinemateca de Cuba, for example, the term \"huérfanos\" has been used to conceptualize the lost and abandoned works of Cuban film history, its \"orfandad.\" The Nederlands Filmmuseum preserves and programs its \"Bits & Pieces\" series of unidentified film fragments, its \"foundlings.\" The China Film Archive in Beijing uses a translatable orphan film metaphor as well.\n\nAnother indication of the international interest in orphan films was filmmaker Martin Scorsese's announcement of a World Cinema Foundation (WCF) at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival. Press reports stated that the WCF would preserve \"orphan\" films. By 2008, however, the WCF's mission statement referred only to \"neglected\" films rather than orphans, as the foundation helps fund preservation of lesser known theatrical motion pictures, which remain under the legal ownership of some party. World Cinema Foundation In 2013 the foundation proper was renamed the World Cinema Project, which is overseen by The Film Foundation Scorsese created in 1990.\n\nIn April 2008, the International Federation of Film Archives (FIAF) endorsed a \"Declaration on Fair Use and Access\" which stated \"FIAF supports efforts to clarify the legal status of 'orphan' motion pictures and related promotional and historical materials for the purpose of preservation and public access.\" Shortly thereafter, on June 4, 2008, the European Union announced the signing of a new \"Memorandum of Understanding\" on orphan works. The EU's Digital Libraries Initiative produced the statement. Signatories included key institutions in moving image archiving and representatives of rightsholders: Association Des Cinematheques Europeennes - Association of European Film Archives and Cinematheques, the British Library, European Film Companies Alliance, Federation Europeenne Des Realisateurs De L'audiovisuel, Federation Internationale Des Associations De Producteurs De Films, and the International Federation Of Film Distributors. See EU Press Release on Orphan Works.. In 2010, the Association of European Film Archives and Cinematheques carried out a survey among its members to assess the dimension of orphan films. According to this survey, more than 210,000 films preserved in Europe's Film Archives are considered orphan.\nIn October 2012, the EU adopted the Orphan Works Directive 2012/28/EU which legally allows the (online) use of orphan works across Europe, provided that a search for the rights holder has been carried before. \nCurrently, the European Union is addressing copyright, access, and preservation issues via FORWARD, a three-year project (2013-2016) to create a registry of orphan films. Officially termed \"Framework for a EU-wide Audiovisual Orphan Works Registry,\" the project aims to create simplified process for determining the rights status of moving image works. See Project-FORWARD.eu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35297263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35297263", "title": "Pfizer Inc. v. Government of India", "text": "Pfizer Inc. v. Government of India\n\nPfizer Inc. v. Government of India, 434 U.S. 308 (1978) decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in which the Court held that foreign states are entitled to sue for treble damages in U.S. courts, and should be recognized as \"persons\" under the Clayton Act.\n\nIn 1975, the government of India, filed an antitrust suit against pharmaceutical firms Pfizer, Inc., American Cyanamid Company, Bristol-Myers Company, Squibb Corporation, Olin Corporation and The Upjohn Company, alleging that these companies had conspired to restrain and monopolize interstate and foreign trade in the manufacture, distribution, and sale of broad spectrum antibiotics. The Imperial State of Iran, the Republic of the Philippines and the Republic of Vietnam brought similar suits against one or more of these pharmaceutical firms, with the Supreme Court eventually deciding to recognize the additional cases in its ruling.\n\nThe constitutional issues at stake in this case surround the U.S. Constitutions recognition of foreign people, entities or governments as \"persons\" with the right and ability to bring suit in U.S. courts against U.S. registered corporations under U.S. antitrust laws. The government of India had filed suit against these five pharmaceutical companies for damages under the Clayton Antitrust Act for their attempts to restrain and monopolize interstate and foreign trade surrounding the manufacture and distribution of certain broad spectrum antibiotics, in violation the Sherman Act. Accusations included the use of price fixing, market division and fraud committed against the US Patent Office.\n\nThe Clayton Antitrust Act was enacted in 1914 to add additional substance to U.S. antitrust law by seeking to prevent certain anti-competitive practices during their inception, and continued a regime that started with the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890. The Clayton Act specified particular prohibited conduct, outlined specific exemptions to the law, and provided for a tri-level enforcement regimen including measure intended to remediate prohibited conduct, expanding on the consumer protections that were provided under the earlier enacted Sherman Antitrust Act.\n\nEnacted by Congress in 1890, the Sherman Antitrust Act was the first federal law that prohibited business practices that were considered to be harmful to consumers, specifically those that were deemed to reduce marketplace competition. The act continues to serve as the basis for most antitrust litigation in federal courts.\n\nThe pharmaceutical companies involved in the suit were seeking to invalidate the case by appealing to the United States Court of Appeals 8th Circuit under the defense that non-US companies were not persons as defined under the Clayton and Sherman acts, making them ineligible to seek treble damages in the U.S. court system. The court Court of Appeals ruled against the defendants under statute. 550 F.2d, 397 that treble-damages for persons injured by antitrust violations was first provided in section 7 of the Sherman Act, and was re-enacted without substantial change in 1914 in section 4 of the Clayton Act.\n\nUnsuccessful in invalidating their case through the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals, the defendants appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court asking the court to clarify the definition of 'persons' under the Clayton and Sherman acts, as section 8 of the Clayton act states:\n\nThe opinion of the Supreme Court was delivered by Justice Potter Stewart. The Court ruled for the government of India, affirming that a foreign nation otherwise entitled to sue in U.S. courts is entitled to sue for damages under the antitrust laws to the same extent as any other plaintiff. The fact that the respondents are sovereign foreign entities is not reason to deny them the remedy of treble damages the U.S. Congress has afforded to any person negatively affected by violations of U.S. or international antitrust laws. The Justices referred to the Sherman and Clayton antitrust laws in their ruling, as well as a prior ruling favoring the State of Georgia's right to sue in \"Georgia v. Evans\".\n\nJustice Stewart further stated in his opinion:\n\nThe majority reasoned that a foreign nation is entitled to pursue damages when it its business or property has suffered damages caused by another entities antitrust violations. When a foreign nation conducts business in U.S. commercial markets, it can be victimized by anti-competitive practices in the same manner as a domestic U.S. State of private person.\n\nThe issue of person-hood for a sovereign government was supported by prior case law, with Justice Stewart referring to two specific cases to support the majority argument. Both the \"United States v. Cooper Corp\" and \"Georgia v. Evans\" cases considered the rights of person-hood for government entities. While the Cooper case rules that the United States Government was not to be considered a \"person\" under US antitrust laws, the court ruled in \"Georgia v. Evans\" that the state was allowed consideration as a person. The decision did not rest on Georgia's status as a state but that unlike the federal government in the \"U.S. v. Cooper Corp\" ruling, the State of Georgia had been given no other remedy to enforce the prohibitions of the laws in question. Like the State of Georgia, the Government of India also had no other remedy outside of the court system.\n\nChief Justice Burger dissented the ruling, joined by Justices Powell and Rehnquist. In his dissent, Justice Burger stated that a foreign nations entitlement to bring damage actions in U.S. courts against domestic suppliers for alleged violations of antitrust laws was never considered when the Sherman and Clayton Acts were enacted, and that the Clayton and Sherman acts did not extend the right of person-hood to foreign powers.\n\nChief Justice Burger indicated in his dissent his dismay at the majorities recognition of a foreign government as a person under the Clayton and Sherman antitrust laws, while also noting that the majority option conceded that the question of application of the Sherman and Clayton Acts to foreign governments was never considered at the time the laws were enacted. He also referred to prior judgements under these acts, including the much more specific definition of person in the Clayton act. Citing the case of \"Blue Chip Stamps v. Manor Drug Stores\", Chief Justice Burger highlighted the courts reliance on the specific definition of persons as outlined in the Clayton act, specifically the mention of foreign corporations and associations existing under or authorized laws of any foreign country as entities covered under the Act, but no mention the governments of foreign countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "26276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26276", "title": "Redirect examination", "text": "Redirect examination\n\n\"\n\nWhen a witness is presented for testimony in the U.S. judicial system, the order is \"direct\" testimony, then the opposing attorney does \"cross\" and then \"redirect\" from the attorney first offering the witness. \"Recross\" may be allowed, but usually the opposing attorney must ask for permission from the judge before proceeding with this additional round of questioning.\n\nIn Australia, Canada and South Africa the process is called re-examination.\n\n"}
{"id": "43933782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43933782", "title": "Reference distance", "text": "Reference distance\n\nIn broadcast engineering, the reference distance is the distance which, under normal circumstances and flat terrain, a radio station would reach with a particular level of signal strength. This distance depends on two factors: effective radiated power (ERP) and height above average terrain (HAAT). The actual distance a station's signal travels depends highly on weather, where factors like temperature inversions and heavy precipitation have a strong and highly variable influence on radio propagation. However, for purposes of broadcast law such as construction permits and broadcast licenses, fixed calculations called propagation curves are applied to determine the reference distances for all existing and proposed stations. These also take into account beam tilt, carrier frequency, and even the Earth's curvature at longer distances.\n\nThis is in turn used to define most broadcast classes for FM stations in North America. Each class (except D) is defined as having a maximum ERP and HAAT. If the HAAT of a station's radio antenna exceeds that specified for the class, it must reduce ERP so that its signal does not exceed the reference distance. The signal strength used differs by class, but generally the value is 1.0mV/m (millivolt per meter) or 60dBu (decibels over one microvolt per meter) for most of the United States, and 0.5mV/m or 54dBu in Canada, and for some U.S. stations in parts of certain areas including California, the Great Lakes region, and the Northeast. This is considered the service contour of a station by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), and by COFETEL in Mexico, according to NARBA and other international agreements among the three. The reference distances are in turn used to create mandatory minimum spacing distances among co-channel stations, and certain adjacent channels as well.\n\nReal-world calculations can also be done by including data from digital topographical maps, typically along 12 or 16 radials, and including the specifications from the radiation pattern for a directional antenna. However, this does not fit the definition of a reference in this sense, even though it determines the actual broadcast range of a station. This actual range is used in the reserved band in the U.S., while the reference distance is used for commercial radio stations.\n"}
{"id": "47644069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47644069", "title": "Regulation A", "text": "Regulation A\n\nIn the United States under the Securities Act of 1933, any offer to sell securities must either be registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or meet certain qualifications to exempt them from such registration. Regulation A (or Reg A) contains rules providing exemptions from the registration requirements, allowing some companies to use equity crowdfunding to offer and sell their securities without having to register the securities with the SEC. Regulation A offerings are intended to make access to capital possible for small and medium-sized companies that could not otherwise bear the costs of a normal SEC registration and to allow non-accredited investors to participate in the offering. The regulation is found under Title 17 of the Code of Federal Regulations, chapter 2, part 230. The legal citation is 17 C.F.R. §230.251 \"et seq.\"\n\nOn March 25, 2015, the SEC issued new final regulations amending Regulation A. Montana and Massachusetts state regulators sued the SEC requesting a stay that would pause the implementation of Reg A. The rules came into force on July 19, 2015.\n\nOn March 25, 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted final rules to implement Section 401 of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act by expanding Regulation A into two tiers.\nAn issuer of $20 million or less of securities can elect to proceed under either Tier 1 or Tier 2. The final rules for offerings under Tier 1 and Tier 2 build on current Regulation A and preserve, with some modifications, existing provisions regarding issuer eligibility, Offering circular contents, testing the waters, and \"bad actor\" disqualification. The new rules modernize the Regulation A filing process for all offerings, align practice in certain areas with prevailing practice for registered offerings, create additional flexibility for issuers in the offering process, and establish an ongoing reporting regime for certain Regulation A issuers. Under the final rules, Tier 2 issuers are required to include audited financial statements in their offering documents and to file annual, semiannual, and current reports with the SEC on an ongoing basis.\n\nRegulation A allows the general public to invest in private companies. With the exception of securities that will be listed on a national securities exchange upon qualification, purchasers in Tier 2 offerings must either be accredited investors, as that term is defined in Regulation D (SEC), or be subject to certain limitations on the size of their investment.\n\nIn addition to qualifying a Regulation A offering with the SEC, companies using a Tier 1 offering must register or qualify their offering in any state in which they seek to offer or sell securities pursuant to Regulation A. Some states provide the option to have Tier 1 offerings that will be conducted in multiple states reviewed through a coordinated state review program by the North American Securities Administrators Association.\n\nIssuers in Tier 2 offerings are required to qualify offerings with the Commission before sales can be made pursuant to Regulation A, but they are not required to register or qualify their offerings with state securities regulators. This partially exempts Tier 2 companies from blue sky law securities rules in each state. Tier 2 offerings by such issuers, do remain subject to some state law enforcement and antifraud rules. Issuers in Tier 2 offerings may still be subject to filing fees in the states in which they intend to offer securities.\n\nEquity crowdfunding platforms StartEngine and SeedInvest have facilitated Regulation A+ campaigns. The first successful Regulation A+ campaign was completed by automotive startup Elio Motors, raising nearly $17 million from 6,600 investors. The campaign was designed, produced and marketed by CrowdfundX, a financial marketing firm based in Los Angeles. Elio Motors closed out their Regulation A+ offering in February, 2016, and subsequently listed to the OTCQX, making it the first crowdfinanced IPO in the United States. In July, 2017, Myomo, a medical device maker out of Boston, MA, became the first crowdfinanced IPO to list shares to the NYSE. CrowdfundX also marketed this historic Reg A+ IPO.\n\nThe first real estate lending marketplace to obtain SEC qualification utilizing an amended Tier 1 Regulation A offering was Groundfloor, achieving the feat on August 31, 2015. This made Groundfloor the first marketplace open to non-accredited investors.\n\nOn Dec. 3rd, 2015, real estate crowdfunding company Fundrise used the newly expanded Regulation A rules to raise capital for the launch of the world's first online Real Estate Investment Trust.\n\nIn June 2016, American Homeowner Preservation opened a Regulation A+ offering with what has been called \"probably the lowest investment minimum\" of any Regulation A+ offering. Their minimum investment is $100.\n\nRegulation A allows companies to conduct a publicity campaign and to solicit indications of interest from the public to assess the level of interest in investing in the company. This is intended to help the company decide whether to proceed with a Reg A offering.\n\n"}
{"id": "16686570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16686570", "title": "Roman assemblies", "text": "Roman assemblies\n\nThe Roman Assemblies were institutions in ancient Rome. They functioned as the machinery of the Roman legislative branch, and thus (theoretically at least) passed all legislation. Since the assemblies operated on the basis of direct democracy, ordinary citizens, and not elected representatives, would cast all ballots. The assemblies were subject to strong checks on their power by the executive branch and by the Roman Senate. Laws were passed (and magistrates elected) by Curia (in the Curiate Assembly), Tribes (in the Tribal Assembly), and Centuries (in the Centuriate Assembly).\n\nWhen the city of Rome was founded (traditionally dated at 753 BC), a senate and an assembly, the Curiate Assembly, were both created. The Curiate Assembly was the principal legislative assembly during the era of the Roman Kingdom. While its primary purpose was to elect new kings, it also possessed rudimentary legislative powers. Shortly after the founding of the Roman Republic (traditionally dated to 509 BC), the principal legislative authority shifted to two new assemblies, the Tribal Assembly (\"Citizen's Assembly\") and the Centuriate Assembly. Eventually, most legislative powers were transferred to another assembly, the Plebeian Council (\"Assembly of the Commoners\"). Ultimately, it was the Plebeian Council that disrupted the balance between the senate, the legislative branch, and the executive branch. This led to the collapse of the republic, and the founding of the Roman Empire in 27 BC. Under the empire, the powers that had been held by the assemblies were transferred to the senate. While the assemblies eventually lost their last semblance of political power, citizens continued to gather into them for organizational purposes. Eventually, however, the assemblies were ultimately abandoned.\n\nThe Legislative Assemblies of the Roman Kingdom were political institutions in the ancient Roman Kingdom. While one assembly, the Curiate Assembly, had some legislative powers, these powers involved nothing more than a right to symbolically ratify decrees issued by the Roman King. The functions of the other assembly, the Calate Assembly, were purely religious. During the years of the kingdom, the People of Rome were organized on the basis of units called Curia. All of the People of Rome were divided amongst a total of thirty Curiae. These Curiae were the basic units of division in the two popular assemblies. The members in each Curia would vote, and the majority in each Curia would determine how that Curia voted before the assembly. Thus, a majority of the Curiae (sixteen out of the thirty total Curiae) were needed during any vote before either the Curiate Assembly or the Calculate Assembly. \nThe Curiate Assembly was a popular assembly during the period of the Roman Kingdom, and was organized on the basis of the thirty Curiae. The king presided over the assembly, and submitted decrees to it for ratification. After a king died, the Interrex selected a candidate to replace the king. After the nominee received the approval of the Roman Senate, the Interrex held the formal election before the Curiate Assembly. After the Curiate Assembly elected the new king, and the senate ratified that election, the Interrex then presided over the assembly as it voted on the law which granted the king his legal powers (the \"lex curiata de imperio\"). On the \"calends\" (the first day of the month), and the \"nones\" (around the fifth day of the month), this assembly met to hear announcements. Appeals heard by this assembly often had to deal with questions concerning Roman family law. During two fixed days in the spring, the assembly was to always to me to meet to witness wills and adoptions. The assembly also had jurisdiction over the admission of new families to a Curia, the transfer of families between two Curiae, and the transfer of individuals from plebeian (commoner) to patrician (aristocratic) status (or vice versa).\n\nThe Legislative Assemblies of the Roman Republic were political institutions in the ancient Roman Republic. There were two types of Roman assembly. The first was the \"comitia\", which was an assembly of Roman citizens. Here, Roman citizens gathered to enact laws, elect magistrates, and try judicial cases. The second type of assembly was the council (\"concilium\"), which was an assembly of a specific group of citizens. For example, the \"Plebeian Council\" was an assembly where Plebeians gathered to elect Plebeian magistrates, pass laws that applied only to Plebeians, and try judicial cases concerning Plebeians. A convention (\"conventio\"), in contrast, was an unofficial forum for communication, where citizens gathered to debate bills, campaign for office, and decide judicial cases. The voters first assembled into conventions to deliberate, and then they assembled into committees or councils to actually vote. In addition to the curiae (familial groupings), Roman citizens were also organized into centuries (for military purposes) and tribes (for civil purposes). Each gathered into an assembly for legislative, electoral, and judicial purposes. The Centuriate Assembly was the assembly of the Centuries, while the Tribal Assembly was the assembly of the Tribes. Only a block of voters (Century, Tribe or Curia), and not the individual electors, cast the formal vote (one vote per block) before the assembly. The majority of votes in any Century, Tribe, or Curia decided how that Century, Tribe, or Curia voted.\n\nThe Centuriate Assembly was divided into 193 (later 373) Centuries, with each Century belonging to one of three classes: the officer class, the infantry, and the unarmed adjuncts. During a vote, the Centuries voted, one at a time, by order of seniority. The president of the Centuriate Assembly was usually a Roman Consul (the chief magistrate of the republic). Only the Centuriate Assembly could elect Consuls, Praetors and Censors, only it could declare war, and only it could ratify the results of a census. While it had the power to pass ordinary laws (\"leges\"), it rarely did so.\nThe organization of the Tribal Assembly was much simpler than was that of the Centuriate Assembly, in contrast, since its organization was based on only thirty-five Tribes. The Tribes were not ethnic or kinship groups, but rather geographical divisions (similar to modern U.S. Congressional districts or Commonwealth Parliamentary constituencies). The president of the Tribal Assembly was usually a Consul, and under his presidency, the assembly elected Quaestors, Curule Aediles, and Military Tribunes. While it had the power to pass ordinary laws (\"leges\"), it rarely did so. The assembly known as the Plebeian Council was identical to the Tribal Assembly with one key exception: only plebeians (the commoners) had the power to vote before it. Members of the aristocratic patrician class were excluded from this assembly. In contrast, both classes were entitled to a vote in the Tribal Assembly. Under the presidency of a Plebeian Tribune (the chief representative of the people), the Plebeian Council elected Plebeian Tribunes and Plebeian Aediles (the Plebeian Tribune's assistant), enacted laws called plebiscites, and presided over judicial cases involving Plebeians. Originally, laws passed by the Plebeian Council only applied to Plebeians. However, by 287 BC, laws passed by the Plebeian Council had acquired the full force of law, and from that point on, most legislation came from the council.\n\nThe legislative assemblies of the Roman Empire were political institutions in the ancient Roman Empire. During the reign of the second Roman Emperor, Tiberius, the powers that had been held by the Roman assemblies were transferred to the senate. The neutering of the assemblies had become inevitable for reasons beyond the fact that they were composed of the rabble of Rome. The electors were, in general, ignorant as to the merits of the important questions that were laid before them, and often willing to sell their votes to the highest bidder. After the founding of the Roman Empire, the People of Rome continued to organize by Centuries and by Tribes, but by this point, these divisions had lost most of their relevance.\n\nWhile the machinery of the Centuriate Assembly continued to exist well into the life of the empire, the assembly lost all of its practical relevance. Under the empire, all gatherings of the Centuriate Assembly were in the form of an unsorted convention. Legislation was never submitted to the imperial Centuriate Assembly, and the one major legislative power that this assembly had held under the republic, the right to declare war, was now held exclusively by the emperor. All judicial powers that had been held by the republican Centuriate Assembly were transferred to independent jury courts, and under the emperor Tiberius, all of its former electoral powers were transferred to the senate. After it had lost all of these powers, it had no remaining authority. Its only remaining function was, after the senate had 'elected' the magistrates, to hear the \"renuntiatio\", The \"renuntiatio\" had no legal purpose, but instead was a ceremony in which the results of the election were read to the electors. This allowed the emperor to claim that the magistrates had been \"elected\" by a sovereign people.\n\nAfter the founding of the empire, the tribal divisions of citizens and freedmen continued, but the only political purpose of the tribal divisions was such that they better enabled the senate to maintain a list of citizens. Tribal divisions also simplified the process by which grain was distributed. Eventually, most \"freedmen\" belonged to one of the four urban Tribes, while most \"freemen\" belonged to one of the thirty-one rural Tribes. Under the emperor Tiberius, the electoral powers of the Tribal Assembly were transferred to the senate. Each year, after the senate had elected the annual magistrates, the Tribal Assembly also heard the \"renuntiatio\". Any legislation that the emperor submitted to the assemblies for ratification were submitted to the Tribal Assembly. The assembly ratified imperial decrees, starting with the emperor Augustus, and continuing until the emperor Domitian. The ratification of legislation by the assembly, however, had no legal importance as the emperor could make any decree into law, even without the acquiescence of the assemblies. Thus, under the empire, the chief executive again became the chief lawgiver, which was a power he had not held since the days of the early republic. The Plebeian Council also survived the fall of the republic, and it also lost its legislative, judicial and electoral powers to the senate. By virtue of his tribunician powers, the emperor had absolute control over the council.\n\n</div>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20907461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20907461", "title": "SABAM", "text": "SABAM\n\nSABAM is one of the Belgian associations of authors, composers and publishers. The bilingual acronym stands for \"Société d'Auteurs Belge – Belgische Auteurs Maatschappij\". Their headquarters is located at 75–77 rue d'Arlon in Brussels.\n\nSABAM was founded in 1922 at the instigation of the composer under the name NAVEA. In 1945 it changed to its current name. The SABAM is a Civil Co-operative Society (CVBA) with Belgian authors, composers and publishers as members. They represent the interests of its members in the field of intellectual property rights and collect all the royalties due to its members in Belgium, and sister organizations in other countries (such as Buma/Stemra in the Netherlands), and then distributes these royalties to the copyright holders.\n\nUnlike Buma/Stemra, which is limited to music copyright, SABAM is active in all disciplines where copyrights are involved. The members of SABAM are not only composers, poets and musicians, but also writers, poets, artists, publishers, visual artists, architects, designers, choreographers, photographers, film and television directors, etc.\n\nSABAM also monitors the Internet to check the illegal supply of art.\nIn 2004 SABAM filed a complaint against ISP Tiscali because of the illegal distribution of music over the Internet.\nA restaurant owner from Brussels was fined because he had a picture of the Atomium on his website.\n\nIn October 2007, the SABAM was investigated by a Brussels court on suspicion of falsifying financial statements, the abuse of the confidence of its members and the laundering of misappropriated funds. The investigation, which was started by a complaint by the Walloon composer Philippe Delhaye, is ongoing.\n\nIn August 2009 Google removed several music videos for Belgian artists from its video web site YouTube because of complaints made by SABAM.\n\nSABAM has received a lot of criticism from festival organisations for claiming money they don't deserve, and having very unclear conditions, from artists for late payments (SABAM had a debt of 200 million EUR towards artists in 2010), and from many other people for demanding money in the strangest places, s.a. libraries for reading stories to toddlers or playing music in a taxi.\n\nSABAM has been criticised publicly in newspapers and TV shows.\n\nFor example, in 2011, one of the episodes of the TV show Basta was dedicated to SABAM. As one of the actions, the people from comedy group Neveneffecten, makers of the show, organised a concert with imaginary artists, and sent the playlist to SABAM. SABAM charged as if all imaginary artists would be a member of their organisation. SABAM however refunded the money after the episode was shown on the national television. Other ridiculing actions included organising a party on less than 1 m² (since the fees depended on the area of the party, and started only from 1 m²), or calling to SABAM to ask if they had to pay SABAM because their phone rang on a public place with a protected tune.\n\nSABAM has also been ridiculed in other shows. In the 2014 conference of Michael Van Peel, Van Peel referred to the videos posted by ISIL, and concluded it was sad the videos didn't have background music. \"Then we could have sent our terrorist organisation: SABAM.\"\n\nIn 2017, festival organizers went to the Commercial Court because SABAM increased the cost with approximately 30 %. The festival organizers (who also organize most of the concerts in Belgium) think that SABAM is abusing their monopoly by doing this.\n\n"}
{"id": "321934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321934", "title": "Smriti", "text": "Smriti\n\nSmriti (, IAST: \"\"), literally \"that which is remembered\" are a body of Hindu texts usually attributed to an author, traditionally written down but constantly revised, in contrast to Śrutis (the Vedic literature) considered authorless, that were transmitted verbally across the generations and fixed. \"Smriti\" is a derivative secondary work and is considered less authoritative than \"Sruti\" in Hinduism, except in the Mimamsa school of Hindu philosophy. The authority of \"smriti\" accepted by orthodox schools, is derived from that of \"shruti\", on which it is based.\n\nThe Smrti literature is a corpus of diverse varied texts. This corpus includes, but is not limited to the six Vedāngas (the auxiliary sciences in the Vedas), the epics (the Mahābhārata and Rāmāyana), the Dharmasūtras and Dharmaśāstras (or Smritiśāstras), the Arthasaśāstras, the Purānas, the Kāvya or poetical literature, extensive \"Bhasyas\" (reviews and commentaries on \"Shrutis\" and non-Shruti texts), and numerous \"Nibandhas\" (digests) covering politics, ethics (\"Nitisastras\"), culture, arts and society.\n\nEach Smriti text exists in many versions, with many different readings. Smritis were considered fluid and freely rewritten by anyone in ancient and medieval Hindu tradition.\n\n\"Smrti\" is a Sanskrit word, from the root Smara (स्मर), which means \"remembrance, reminiscence, thinking of or upon, calling to mind\", or simply \"memory\". The word is found in ancient Vedic literature, such as in section 7.13 of the Chandogya Upanishad. In later and modern scholarly usage, the term refers to tradition, memory, as well as a vast post-Vedic canon of \"tradition that is remembered\". David Brick states that the original meaning of smriti was simply tradition, and not texts.\n\n\"Smriti\" is also a symbolic synonym for number 18, from the 18 scholars who are credited in Indian tradition for writing dharma-related smriti texts (most have been lost). In linguistic traditions, \"Smrti\" is the name of a type of verse meter. In Hindu mythology, \"Smriti\" is the name of the daughter of \"Dharma\" and \"Medha\".\n\nIn scholarly literature, Smriti is also spelled as \"Smṛti\".\n\n\"Smrtis\" represent the remembered, written tradition in Hinduism. The Smrti literature is a vast corpus of derivative work. All \"Smriti\" texts are regarded to ultimately be rooted in or inspired by \"Shruti\".\n\nThe \"Smrti\" corpus includes, but is not limited to:\n\nThe \"Smrti\" texts structurally branched, over time, from so-called the \"limbs of the Vedas\", or auxiliary sciences for perfecting grammar and pronunciation (part of Vedāngas). For example, the attempt to perfect the art of rituals led to the science of \"Kalpa\", which branched into three Kalpa-sūtras: Srauta-sūtras, Grhya-sūtras, and Dharma-sūtras (estimated to have been composed between 600-200 BCE). The Srauta-sutras became texts describing the perfect performance of public ceremonies (solemn community yajnas), the Grhya-sutras described perfect performance of home ceremonies and domestic rites of passage, and Dharma-sutras described jurisprudence, rights and duties of individuals in four Ashrama stages of life, and social ethics. The Dharma-sūtras themselves became the foundations for a large canon of texts, and branched off as numerous Dharma-sastra texts.\n\nJan Gonda states that the initial stages of Smriti texts structurally developed in the form of a new prose genre named Sūtras, that is \"aphorism, highly compact precise expression that captured the essence of a fact, principle, instruction or idea\". This brevity in expression, states Gonda, was likely necessitated by the fact that writing technology had not developed yet or was not in vogue, in order to store a growing mass of knowledge, and all sorts of knowledge was transferred from one generation to the next through the process of memorization, verbal recitation and listening in the 1st millennium BCE. Compressed content allowed more essential, densely structured knowledge to be memorized and verbally transferred to the next generation in ancient India.\n\n\"Smrtis\" contribute to exposition of the Hindu Dharma but are considered less authoritative than \"Śrutis\" (the Vedic corpus that includes early Upanishads).\n\nThe root texts of ancient Hindu jurisprudence and law are the \"Dharma-sūtras\". These express that Shruti, Smriti and Acara are sources of jurisprudence and law. The precedence of these sources is declared in the opening verses of each of the known, surviving Dharma-sūtras. For example,\nThe \"Smritis\", such as Manusmriti, Naradasmriti, Yajnavalkya Smrti and Parashara Smriti, expanded this definition, as follows,\n\nThe Yajnavalkya Smriti includes four Vedas, six Vedangas, Purana, Nyaya, Mimamsa and other sastras, in addition to the ethical conduct of the wise, as sources of knowledge and through which sacred law can be known. It explains the scope of the Dharma as follows,\n\nLevinson states that the role of \"Shruti\" and \"Smriti\" in Hindu law is as a source of guidance, and its tradition cultivates the principle that \"the facts and circumstances of any particular case determine what is good or bad\". The later Hindu texts include fourfold sources of \"Dharma\", states Levinson, which include \"Atmanastushti\" (satisfaction of one's conscience), \"Sadacara\" (local norms of virtuous individuals), \"Smriti\" and \"Sruti\".\n\nMedhatithi's philosophical analysis of and commentary on criminal, civil and family law in Dharmasastras, particularly of Manusmriti, using Nyaya and Mimamsa theories, is the oldest and the most widely studied tertiary \"Smriti\".\n\n\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11777436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11777436", "title": "Soledad Brothers", "text": "Soledad Brothers\n\nThe Soledad Brothers were three African-American inmates charged with the murder of a white prison guard, John Vincent Mills, at California's Soledad Prison on January 16, 1970. George Jackson, Fleeta Drumgo, and John Clutchette were said to have murdered Mills in retaliation for the shooting deaths of three black prisoners during a prison fight in the exercise yard three days prior by another guard, Opie G. Miller.\n\nGeorge Jackson met W.L. Nolen through the Black Panther Party in Soledad State Prison in 1969. They were transferred together to the O Wing, along with Drumgo and Clutchette, which was considered the worst part of the adjustment center of which Max Row is a part. According to Jackson, in the O Wing \"the strongest hold out no more than a couple of weeks. It destroys the logical processes of the mind, a man's thoughts become completely disorganized. The noise, madness streaming from every throat, frustrated sounds from the bars, metallic sounds from the walls, the steel trays, the iron beds bolted to the wall, the hollow sounds from a cast-iron sink or toilet. The smells, the human waste thrown at us, unwashed bodies, the rotten food. When a white con leaves here he's ruined for life. No black leaves Max Row walking. Either he leaves on the meat wagon or he leaves crawling licking at the pig's feet.\"\n\nIn Jackson's letters from the prison he describes the attitude of the staff toward the convicts as both defensive and hostile, apparently out of pure malevolence. His account of life at the prison was used by the Soledad Brothers Defense Committee.\n\nOn January 13, 1970, 14 black inmates and 2 white inmates from the maximum-security section of Soledad Prison were released into a recreation yard. It had been several months since they were last released into the yard. The black prisoners were ordered to the far end of the yard, while the white prisoners remained near the center of the yard. Officer Opie G. Miller, an expert marksman armed with a rifle, watched over the inmates from a guard tower above the yard. A fist fight ensued and Miller opened fire on the prisoners below. No warning shot was fired. Three black inmates were killed in the shooting: W.L. Nolen and Cleveland Edwards died in the yard, while Alvin Miller died in the prison hospital a few hours later. A white inmate, Billy D. Harris, was wounded in the groin by Miller's fourth shot, and ended up losing a testicle. In a letter from June 10, 1970, George Jackson described the scene as seeing three of his brothers having been \"murdered [...] by a pig shooting from 30 feet above their heads with a military rifle.\" \n\nFollowing the incident, thirteen black prisoners began a hunger strike in the hopes of securing an investigation. On January 16, 1970, a Monterey County grand jury convened, then exonerated Miller in the deaths of Nolen, Edwards, and Miller with a ruling of \"justifiable homicide\". No black inmates were permitted to testify, including those who had been in the recreation yard during the shooting. In Soledad Prison, inmates heard the grand jury's ruling on the prison radio. Thirty minutes later, John V. Mills was found dying in another maximum-security wing of the prison, having been beaten and thrown from a third-floor tier of Y Wing, George Jackson's cellblock, to the television room below. On February 14, 1970, after an investigation into Mills' death by prison officials, George Lester Jackson, Fleeta Drumgo and John Wesley Clutchette were indicted by the Monterey County grand jury for first-degree murder.\n\nThe Soledad Brothers Defense Committee was formed by Fay Stender to assist in publicizing the case and raising funds to defend Jackson, Drumgo, and Clutchette. Among the several celebrities, writers, and left-wing political activists that supported the SBDC and their cause were Julian Bond, Kay Boyle, Marlon Brando, Jane Fonda, Noam Chomsky, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Allen Ginsberg, Tom Hayden, William Kunstler, Jessica Mitford, Linus Pauling, Pete Seeger, Benjamin Spock, and Angela Davis. In June 1970, California State Senator Mervyn Dymally and the California Legislative Black Caucus pursued an investigation of Soledad Prison and released a report that tried to legitimize the Committee and give it some credibility. Public reaction was mixed. By the middle of that month, Davis was leading the movement. Stender also arranged the publication of \"Soledad Brother: The Prison Letters of George Jackson\", which was to contain various letters written by Jackson while in prison detailing his time spent in the prison throughout the trial.\n\nOn August 7, 1970, George Jackson's seventeen-year-old brother Jonathan held up a courtroom during the trial of prisoner James McClain, charged at the time with the attempted stabbing of a Soledad guard at the Marin County Civic Center. Jonathan Jackson, after having armed McClain, temporarily freed three San Quentin prisoners, and took Superior Court Judge Harold Haley, Deputy District Attorney Gary Thomas, and three women on the jury hostage to secure the freedom of the \"Soledad Brothers\". Jackson, McClain, Haley, and a prisoner named William Christmas were killed as they attempted to drive away from the courthouse. Haley died due to the discharge of a sawed-off shotgun that had been fastened to his neck with adhesive tape by the abductors. Thomas, prisoner Ruchell Magee, and one of the jurors were wounded. Two days after his brother's death, in George Jackson's last letter in his collection of letters written while in prison, he wrote a letter to his deceased brother, signing it:\n\nCold and calm though.<br>'All right, gentlemen, I'm taking over now.' <br>Revolution, George\"\n\nAngela Davis, who purchased the guns used in the escape attempt, was later tried on several charges in connection with the escape. A jury found her not guilty on murder, kidnapping and criminal conspiracy charges.\n\nOn August 21, 1971, days before his trial in the guard's killing, the 29-year-old Jackson allegedly launched a riot at San Quentin with a 9 mm pistol. There is controversy over the course of events that led to Jackson's obtaining of the firearm. Prison officials alleged that Stephen Bingham, the attorney who replaced Fay Stender as Jackson's attorney, visited Jackson. Bingham was alleged to have smuggled Jackson a pistol and an Afro wig. He was purported to have given a wig to Jackson within in which to hide the gun. However, Bingham was found not guilty of this charge in an ensuing trial in 1986. Prison officials had claimed that as Jackson was attempting to leave his meeting with Bingham, a gun protruded from a wig he was wearing and Jackson was asked to show the object. With a gun in hand, Jackson released an entire floor of prisoners from the maximum-security wing, allegedly saying, \"This is it, gentlemen, the Dragon has come!\" In the ensuing melee, three guards were killed, as were two prisoners suspected of being snitches, before George Jackson rushed out into the yard where he was shot and killed by a guard. Other people involved in the case believe Jackson's death was a setup by prison authorities, who conspired to supply Jackson with a gun, in the hopes that he would be killed in the ensuing melee, allegedly because they saw his power as a threat to their control and authority. Inconsistencies in the stories, although common among eyewitnesses in many crimes, fueled the controversy and helped to set off an uprising at Attica Correctional Facility in New York three weeks later. Bingham's acquittal in 1986 on charges that he smuggled Jackson a gun and a wig, and was thereby responsible for the escape attempt and murders, occurred after he emerged from hiding for 13 years in order to stand trial.\n\nIn San Francisco, proceedings were held in the Department 21 courtroom on the third floor of the Hall of Justice, the same courtroom in which Ruchell Magee would later be tried on charges related to the murder of Judge Haley. Spectators, including the press, were separated from the proceedings by a $15,000 floor-to-ceiling barrier constructed of metal, wood, and bullet-proof glass. Throughout the trial, there were attempts to annul the proceedings on technicalities. There were complaints on behalf of the defendants that they were not informed of the scheduled court hearing, specifically in a letter from George Jackson on June 13, 1970. They also claimed the court report stated that 1-48 pages of the testimony were recorded and they were only given 1-46 pages of testimony. After Jackson's death, on March 27, 1972, the two surviving Soledad Brothers—Clutchette and Drumgo—were acquitted by a San Francisco jury of the original charges of murdering a prison guard on the grounds that the state had failed to completely prove its case.\n\n"}
{"id": "7250635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7250635", "title": "Supreme Administrative Court of Bulgaria", "text": "Supreme Administrative Court of Bulgaria\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court of Bulgaria was first established on 25 November 1878 as one of the three divisions of the then-single Supreme Court. It did not exist during the Communist rule, but was restored in 1991.\n\nThe purpose of the Court is outlined in the Constitution:\n\" \"Article 125 (1) The Supreme Administrative Court shall exercise supreme judicial oversight as to the precise and equal application of the law in administrative justice.\n(2) The Supreme Administrative Court shall rule on all challenges to the legality of acts of the Council of Ministers and the individual ministers, and of other acts established by law. \"\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court became a separate institution with the promulgation of the Administrative Justice Law from 3 April 1912. The Constitution of the People’s Republic of Bulgaria of 1947 did not provide for judicial supervision over administrative acts, and as a result the Supreme Administrative Court was closed in 1948 by virtue of the Law on the Structure of People’s Courts. Bulgaria's seventh Grand National Assembly reestablished the Court in 1991.\n\nThe current Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court is Georgi Kolev. He was appointed to this position in 2010. The Deputies are Veneta Markovska and Galina Solakova. The Court consists of two colleges and six divisions, each with a particular phere of responsibilities.\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court publishes a periodical, the Administrative Justice Journal. It is used to describe the problems of Administrative Law and to present practices from the relevant European judicial institutions.\n"}
{"id": "58065454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58065454", "title": "Texas Tax Code Chapter 313", "text": "Texas Tax Code Chapter 313\n\nTexas Tax Code Chapter 313 (aka the \"Texas Economic Development Act\") creates a state program for certain large businesses to limit the appraised value on their property for the purposes of local Texas public school district property taxes.\n\nAn appraised value limitation is an agreement between a taxpayer and a Texas school district in which the taxpayer proposes to build or install property--and create jobs meeting certain job and wage requirements--in exchange for a ten-year limitation on the taxpayer's property value for school district maintenance and operations tax (M&O) purposes. For ten years, school M&O property taxes are not levied on the value in excess of the limitation amount. Limitation amounts are established by statute and vary by school district from $10 million to $100 million. Unlike abatements based on a percentage of the property value, the structure of the program benefits primarily extremely large projects. The majority of projects are in the petrochemical or energy sectors, although some are typical manufacturing.\n\nCreated by the Texas legislature in 2001, and initially set to expire in 2007, the program has been renewed several times. In 2013, the Texas Legislature reset the expiration date of the program to December 31, 2022.\n\nCompanies seeking a limitation submit an abatement application to the school district in which the project may be located. The school district forwards the application to the Texas Comptroller for evaluation. The school district may not grant final approval of the abatement without Comptroller analysis and approval. For the 10 years of the tax benefit period, reduced local school district revenues are substantially replaced with state funds through the state public school finance system.\n\nThe Texas Tax Code gives to the Texas Comptroller's office responsibility and authority to adopt rules necessary for the implementation and administration or the program. The Comptroller's office delegates to school districts the responsibility to enforce provisions of the limitation agreements. In 2013, in House Bill 3390, the Texas legislature charged the Comptroller's office with reviewing the number of qualifying jobs created in future projects receiving tax limitations.\n\nThe Texas Comptroller's website posts documents related to the projects.\n\nA 2017 report to the Texas Legislature by the Texas Comptroller reported 311 active limitation agreements, representing an estimated $146 billion of total investment through 2033. That report indicated that between 2002 and 2015, local school property tax revenue reductions due to limitation agreements were approximately $7.1 billion.\n\nA \"Tax Exemptions and Tax Incidence Report\" prepared by the Texas Comptroller in February, 2017, estimated that limitation agreements would reduce school districts revenues in that year by about $513 million, also indicating that total school district revenue could be reduced by over $1 billion annually by the year 2021. \n\nSupporters of the program argue that Texas' high local property tax rates put the state at a disadvantage when competing for businesses making new investments. Business groups say the program attracts projects that would have not come to Texas otherwise, and that without the program Texas cannot compete with other states for new business investment. Proponents of the program claim that local school district property revenue reductions created by the abatement do not create a real cost to the state, arguing that without the program, none of the businesses receiving the abatement would have located in Texas. \n\nCritics of the program argue that many of the projects receiving the abatement would have located in Texas for other reasons. Wind farms, they say, find Texas an ideal location due to its rich wind resources, separate electrical grid, and large rate-payer-funded transmission networks. They say that the program's petrochemical projects locate in Texas largely because of little regulation, proximity to rich oil and gas shale plays, and access to deep-water ports and pipeline networks. Critics also point to the relatively small number of jobs created compared to the large amount of revenues forgone for each job. They further claim program benefits are too generous, as many companies typically agree to return about 40 percent of the initial tax savings to the local school district through \"payments in lieu of taxes\" outside the regular system of school finance. \n\nIn 2010, the Comptrollers office studied the program, making recommendations. The Texas Legislative Budge Board in its \"Texas State Government Effectiveness and Efficiency: Selected Issues and Recommendations\" (January 2011) analyzed the Chapter 313 program, making recommendations. In 2013, the Chapter was amended to require the Texas State Auditor's Office (SAO) to review at least three major limitation agreements annually. The SAO has published reports for 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017. \n\nIn November, 2016, the Texas Senate Committee on Natural Resources and Economic Development issued an \"Interim Report to the 85th Legislature\" critical of the Chapter 313 program.\n\nThe Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts started issuing biennially reports on limitation economic development projects in 2008.\n\nIn 2017, University of Texas political science professor Nathan M. Jensen released a study on the Chapter 313 program suggesting that most companies receiving the abatement would have located in Texas for other reasons.\n"}
{"id": "1572680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572680", "title": "The Hague Academy of International Law", "text": "The Hague Academy of International Law\n\nThe Hague Academy of International Law () is a center for high-level education in both public and private international law housed in the Peace Palace in The Hague, the Netherlands. Courses are taught in English and French and, except for External Programme Courses, are held in the Peace Palace. \n\nThe Academy is famous for its Summer Courses Programme. The Academy's alumni and current/former faculty include heads of state, foreign ministers, ambassadors, 13 judges of the International Court of Justice, one former Secretary-General of the United Nations, Boutros Boutros-Ghali and two Nobel Prize recipients.\n\nSince its creation in 1923, The Hague Academy of International Law has occupied premises at the Peace Palace. Next to the Peace Palace building the Academy’s facilities include the Academy Hall built for international conferences, the Peace Palace Library as well as further administrative accommodations. The new buildings were planned and realized by architects Michael Wilford and Manuel Schupp.\nAlongside The Hague Academy of International Law the Peace Palace houses highest judicial institutions such as the International Court of Justice and the Bureau of the Permanent Court of Arbitration. In the context of the movement for the establishment of peace through law, the idea of creating an Academy of International Law was mooted at the Hague Conference in 1907 (having previously been voiced by the Institut de Droit International as early as 1873). The Dutch Government took up the idea, and the International Law Association in turn examined the question. The Dutch Lawyer Tobias M. C. Asser proposed a plan that envisaged more or less what the Academy was to become, with courses held from July to October. Asser received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1911 and contributed a part of the prize money to the Academy; and the Carnegie Endowment for Peace provided a valuable contribution to get it started. The inauguration of the Academy was planned for October 1914. But World War I broke out, and preparations could not be resumed until 1921. When the Summer Courses started on 14 July 1923, at the Peace Palace in The Hague, 353 students originating from 31 countries attended, of whom 35 were women.\n\nToday, the Academy is a centre for research and teaching in public and private international law, with the aim of further scientific and advanced studies of the legal aspects of international relations. The UN General Assembly regularly refers to the “valuable contribution” that the Academy “continues to make to the United Nations Program of Assistance in the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and Wider Appreciation of International Law”. The Academy was awarded the Wateler Peace Prize (1936, 1950), the Félix Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize (1992), the Order of Rio Branco, Brazil (1999), and the Medal of the Royal Institute of European Studies, Spain (2000). The Academy has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize 34 times between 1915 and 1956. The Academy is part of the Hague Academic Coalition.\n\nThe Academy’s academic activities and policies are defined by the Curatorium. It consists of members of different nationalities, who are well known in the academic or diplomatic worlds, or practising international lawyers. The president of the Curatorium is a distinguished jurist who generally has extensive experience of international and diplomatic life. Among the most recent presidents have been Roberto Ago, Nicolas Valticos and Boutros Boutros-Ghali.\n\nPresident\n\nBoutros Boutros-Ghali, Former Secretary-General of the United Nations. (died on 16-2-2016);\n\nVice-President\n\nErik Jayme, Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Foreign and International Private and Commercial Law, Heidelberg;\n\nMembers\n\nGeneviève Bastid-Burdeau, Professor at the University Paris I (Panthéon-Sorbonne);\n\nAntônio Augusto Cançado-Trindade, Judge at the International Court of Justice and former President of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights;\n\nJames Crawford, Whewell Professor of International Law, Cambridge;\n\nFlorentino P. Feliciano, former Chairman, Appellate Body, WTO; former Senior Associate Justice, Supreme Court of the Philippines;\n\nDiego P. Fernandez Arroyo, Honorary Professor of the National University of Córdoba, Professor at the Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris;\n\nBeat Hess, former group legal director, former member of the Executive Committee, Royal Dutch Shell plc;\n\nMaarit Jänterä-Jareborg, Professor and former Dean at the Faculty of Law of Uppsala University;\n\nDjamchid Momtaz, Professor at the University of Teheran;\n\nShinya Murase, Professor at Sophia University, Tokyo; Member of the United Nations International Law Commission;\n\nRaymond Ranjeva, Former Vice-President of the International Court of Justice;\n\nLinos-Alexander Sicilianos, Professor at the University of Athens;\n\nA. (Teun) V.M. Struycken, Professor emeritus at the Radboud University Nijmegen; Former President of the Netherlands Standing Government Committee on Private International Law;\n\nPeter Tomka, Judge and President of the International Court of Justice;\n\nTullio Treves, Professor at the University of Milan, Judge to the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea;\n\nPeter D. Trooboff, Senior Counsel, Covington & Burling, Washington, D.C.; Member of the District of Columbia and New York Bars;\n\nHanqin Xue, Judge at the International Court of Justice;\n\nSecretary General\n\nYves Daudet, Professor emeritus at the University Paris I (Panthéon-Sorbonne).\n\nThe Administrative Council is in charge of the financial and material aspects of the Academy’s operations. This is a Dutch body whose members are of Dutch nationality, and whose president is always a leading personality (at the moment, the former minister for foreign affairs, Ben Bot). The administrative Council has close ties with the Dutch Carnegie Foundation which owns and manages the Peace Palace.\n\nThe Summer Courses of the Academy are held in July (Public International Law) and August (Private International Law); each session lasts three weeks. The Academy is not a University: it does not have a permanent teaching staff, but its scientific body, the Curatorium, freely calls upon academics, practitioners, diplomats, and other personalities from all over the world whom it considers qualified to give courses, in English or French (with simultaneous interpretation). These courses are given in the form of a series of lectures, on general or special subjects. In principle, the courses are then published in the Collected Courses of the Academy of International Law, which now run to more than 360 volumes and are certainly among the most important encyclopædic publications on private and public international law.\n\nThe Summer programme is directed to advanced students and practitioners seeking a deeper understanding of international law, public or private.\nThe summer courses are open to candidates who have completed at least four years of studying at university, including subjects of international law, and who can prove to the Curatorium that they possess a sufficient knowledge of the subject; to candidates holding a 3-year law degree at the opening of the session of the Academy. All candidates must master one of the two working languages (French or English). A merit-based scholarship program allows approximately 20% of the students to receive assistance from public and private funding sources. Each year, attendees representing between 80 and 100 nationalities participate.\n\nSince 1957, the Centre for Research is open, for three weeks from mid-August, to persons undertaking high-level research, working under the direction of professors who are highly qualified in the particular subject being studied, with the best results of the work being published in the Academy's collection. There are between 20 and 24 participants, half in the English-speaking section and half in the French-speaking section.\n\nTopics:\n\n2010: International migrations\n\n2011: Remedies for the actions of International Organizations\n\n2012 : Criminal Acts at Sea\n\n2013 : The Legal Implications of Global Financial Crises\n\nAt the end of the 1960s, the Academy established the Prestigious \"External Program\", which is normally held each year, in turn in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, upon the invitation of host governments or international organizations.\n\nThe External Program is designed for around 20 participants from the countries in the region, whose travelling expenses are usually financed by the Academy and whose accommodation is financed by the government of the host State or organization. In addition, a number of participants come from the host state itself. GNLU in collaboration with the Hague Academy of International Law concluded the 2013 edition. \n\nThe Hague Academy of International Law awards a high-level diploma for students who already have a thorough knowledge of international law and who pass an examination in either public international law or private international law. Few Diplomas are awarded each year, the examination being highly selective.\n\nThe Academy awards each year 4 doctoral scholarships. The beneficiaries stay for two months (July and August) in The Hague to pursue their doctoral researches. They can access the Peace Palace Library and attend the Summer Courses. The candidates should come from a developing country and live there, their doctoral thesis should be in the process of completion.\n\nSince 1923, all courses given at the Academy are, in principle, published in the language in which they were delivered in the Collected Courses of the Hague Academy of International Law (in French : Recueil des cours de l'Académie de droit international de La Haye). All the volumes of the Collected Courses which have been published since 1923 are available, since the very first volume (green binder), also in electronic format and paperback books for some courses. The series The Hague Academy of International Law Monographs, proposes revised and updated versions of certain courses given during the Summer programme. The scientific works of the Centre, have been published, since the Centre’s 1985 session, in a publication in which the Directors of Studies report on the state of research of the Centre under their direction.\nWhen the work of the Centre has been of particular interest and originality, the reports of the Directors of Studies together with the articles by the researchers form the subject of a collection published in the series The Law Books of the Academy. The Academy organizes Colloquia which works are published in the Law Books of the Academy series.\n\nWithin the framework of a small working group, the Colloquia bring together specialists on the chosen subject from various countries of the world. The main objective of the colloquia, other than that of bringing together academics, diplomats and practitioners who have a common interest and knowledge of a specific theme, is to gather knowledge in that subject into a publication of high academic standard in the Legal Publications of the Academy series.\nVery varied topics have been covered :\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRené-Jean Dupuy: Académie de droit international de La Haye: Livre jubilaire (1923–1973). A.W. Sijthoff, Leiden 1973\n\nRobert Kolb : Les cours généraux de droit international public de l'Académie de La Haye. Bruylant, Bruxelles, 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22604336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22604336", "title": "Ukrainian Center for EU Civil Service Standards", "text": "Ukrainian Center for EU Civil Service Standards\n\nThe Center for Adaptation of the Civil Service to the Standards of the European Union (since its foundation in April, 2004 till June, 2008 – Center for Support of Civil Service Institutional Development) was established under the National Agency of Ukraine on Civil Service (hereinafter – NAUCS) in order to provide informational and analytical, expert and organizational support to public administration development, strengthening of institutional capacity of the civil service of Ukraine and its adaptation to the standards of the European Union.\n\nProfessional activity of the Center for Adaptation of the Civil Service to the Standards of the European Union (hereinafter – the Center) is carried out in accordance with the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as of 04 June, 2008 No 528 “Some Issues of the Center for Support of Civil Service Institutional Development”.\n\nStrengthening of cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the area of civil service and public administration, improvement of the coordination mechanism for institutional ensuring of their adaptation to the EU standards, in particular through organization of activity on effective implementation of institutional building instruments Twinning, TAIEX and SIGMA Programme in Ukraine, professional development of civil servants and raising awareness on the European integration issues.\n\n• participation in the preparation of proposals on formation of public policy and law-making activity in the area of civil service and public administration, their adaptation to the EU standards, realization of administrative reform and development of state institutions in the context of European integration of Ukraine, implementation of institution buildingl instruments in Ukraine;\n\n• scientific, expert, informationa and analytical, methodological, organizational and other support to preparation and implementation of programmes and activities in the specified area;\n\n• improving existing and promoting to introduction of new standards and procedures for the work of civil servants and local self-government officials, the activities of government authorities and local self-government authorities taking into consideration the best international practices; \n\n• participation in the implementation of modern information technologies in the work of government authorities and local self-government authorities; \n\n• advisory support to government authorities and local self-government authorities, dissemination of legal, scientific and other information on the civil service and public administration, their adaptation to the EU standards, administrative reform and development of state institutions in the context of European integration of Ukraine, in particular the use of institution building instruments in Ukraine;\n\n• participation in the implementation of cooperation between Ukraine and the EU, consulting and methodological support as well as monitoring within the limits of the powers of activity of executive authorities on fulfillment of obligations assumed by Ukraine to the EU and international organizations;\n\n• support to the NAUCS in fulfilling its tasks and functions regarding the use of institutional instruments in Ukraine.\n\nIn 2005, the President of Ukraine signed the Decree \"Issues of Ensuring the Implementation of the Twinning Programme in Ukraine\" (as of 06 October, 2005 No 1424), according to which functions of the coordinator of the preparation and implementation of the Twinning programme in Ukraine were entrusted to the NAUCS as well as the Twinning Programme Administration Office (hereinafter – PAO) was established. PAO coordinates training and promotes the practical implementation of institutional development projects, provides consulting and methodological support to government authorities on the preparation and implementation of projects, monitors the implementation of projects.\n\nAccording to the Order of the NAUCS as of 27 September, 2013, No 169 “On Activities of the Twinning Programme Administration Office”, the functions of the PAO are assigned to the Center. \n\nThe main function of the Twinning Programme Administration Office (PAO) is the disseminating information on institutional development instruments, carrying out methodological and consultative support of the government authorities on the preparation and implementation of projects, ensuring quality assurance of implemented events, organizing international cooperation in this area, etc. Furthermore, PAO is also a contact point of communication between the EU Delegation to Ukraine and the beneficiary administrations as well as between MS administrations and beneficiary administrations.\n\nPAO Role and Functions:\n\n• raising awareness of government authorities on the possibility of involving the Twinning instrument and Twinning projects implementation;\n\n• support to government authorities in development of Twinning project proposals, TAIEX application forms as well as providing their quality check;\n\n• thorough explanation of the features Twinning and TAIEX instruments implementation;\n\n• organization of meetings of Twinning Programme Coordination Group;\n\n• organization of meetings of the Coordination Group on the TAIEX instrument implementation;\n\n• general coordination of Twinning projects implementation;\n\n• general coordination of the TAIEX instrument implementation;\n\n• coordination of cooperation with the SIGMA programme.\n\nTwinning is an institutional building instrument that provides framework for cooperation between civil servants of Ukrainian and EU Member States government authorities. Twinning instrument provides long-term assistance with the aim to implement elements of public administration needed for adaptation of the national legislation to the EU norms and standards.\n\nAccording to Decree of the President of Ukraine «Issues for the Implementation of Twinning Programmes in Ukraine» dated 06.10.2005 № 1424 the coordinator of Twinning instrument implementation in Ukraine is NAUCS, and the implementation of the organizational, methodological and other support for Twinning programme implementation is entrusted to PAO.\n\nThe use of this institutional building instrument is regulated by Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On Approval of the Procedure for Initiation, Preparation and Implementation of the Twinning Projects” as of 11 October, 2016 No 700 and Interagency Order of the National Agency of Ukraine on Civil Service and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine «On Creation of Working Group on Coordination of the Twinning Instrument Implementation» dated 15.06.2012 № 120/702.\n\nAs of March 2018, in the work plan: 42 Twinning projects completed, 11 projects are in the process of implementation, and 10 projects are in the stage of development of the Twinning Project Fiche; the total number of Twinning projects - 63.\n\nTAIEX (Technical Assistance Information Exchange) is an instrument of technical assistance and information exchange, provided by the European Commission with the aim of strengthening institutional capacity, with further adaptation of the national legislation to the legislation of the European Union (acquis communautaire), its implementation and further effective use.\n\nImplementation of external assistance of the European Commission within the framework of TAIEX instrument in Ukraine is carried out in accordance with the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On Approval of the Procedure of Preparation, Approval and Realization of the Action Plan on Involvement of External Assistance of the European Commission within the framework of TAIEX” as of 13 January, 2016 No 32.\n\nThe coordination of TAIEX instrument is entrusted to PAO.\n\nTAIEX instrument is aimed at:\n\n• approximation, implementation of the national legislation to acquis communautaire;\n\n• institutional development of government authorities;\n\n• professional development of civil servants.\n\nTAIEX assistance can be implemented in three forms (seminar, study visit and expert mission), as well as cover different areas. \n\nSince implementation of the TAIEX instrument in Ukraine (since 2006), as of the beginning of 2018 16828 representatives of the government authorities took part in the 742 events, that was organized in the framework of TAIEX instrument. 144 events were organized by the initiative of the European Commission and 598 events were organized by the initiative of Ukraine.\n\nDuring the mentioned period (2006–2018) TAIEX events were conducted in the following areas:\n\n• Justice and Internal Affairs (191 events);\n\n• Internal Market (332 events);\n\n• Environment, Telecommunications, Transport (128 events);\n\n• Agriculture and Food Safety (91 events).\n\nSIGMA Programme (Support for Improvement in Governance and Management) is considered to be one of the most prestigious analytical centers of the European Union, that was launched in 1992 on the initiative of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the European Union.\n\nKey Objectives of the SIGMA Programme:\n\n• strengthening the foundations for improved public governance;\n\n• supporting social and economic development through capacity building of the public sector;\n\n• enhancing horizontal governance;\n\n• improving the design and implementation of public administration reforms.\n\nTechnical Assistance of the SIGMA Programme is divided into six areas:\n\n• public financial management, public procurement and external audit;\n\n• public service and human resource management;\n\n• policy development and coordination;\n\n• public administration reform;\n\n• service delivery;\n\n• accountability.\n\nAssistance of the SIGMA programme in the area of reforming of public administration system is provided by:\n\n• administrative structures analysis;\n\n• development and implementation of administrative system reforms;\n\n• analysis of the suggested draft laws and programmes;\n\n• organization of trainings and information exchange;\n\n• preparation of technical assistance action plans.\n\nCooperation between the NAUCS and the OECD is a priority area according to the Action Plan on Strengthening Cooperation between Ukraine and the OECD for 2013–2016, approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as of 06.02.2013 No 132-r, Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the OECD on Deeper Cooperation as of 07.10.2014, Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On Procedure of the Participation of Central Executive Authorities in the Activities of International Organizations, where Ukraine is one of the Member States” as of September 13, 2002 No. 137 according to which the NAUCS is the central executive authority, responsible for fulfilling the obligations, including financial arising from Ukraine’s membership in the OECD Public Governance Committee. Since 2008 the NAUCS has been taking part in the Committee above mentioned as a permanent observer.\n\nNAUCS, Center for Adaptation of the Civil Service to the Standards of the EU together with EU Delegation to Ukraine ensure the developing and approving the Action Plan of SIGMA Programme in Ukraine based on proposals received from authorities concerned. \n\nSince 2011 the NAUCS has been cooperated with the SIGMA Programme on the Law of Ukraine “On Civil Service” as of December 10, 2016, No. 889-VIII, the Draft Law of Ukraine “On the Service in Local Authorities”, the Strategy of Public Administration Reform in Ukraine for 20162020, approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as of June 24, 2016 No. 474 “Some Issues of Public Administration Reform of Ukraine”.\n\nDuring 2017–2018 according to the Strategy of Public Administration Reform in Ukraine for 20162020 and jointly with the participation of the SIGMA Programme the assessment of current state of affairs in public administration system in Ukraine has been carried out. \n\nSince 2011 the NAUCS on behalf of Ukraine has been actively involved in the activities of the Working Group (Panel) on Governance and Public Administration Reform of the Thematic Platform 1 “Strengthening Institutions and Good Governce” within the framework of the EU initiative “Eastern Partnership”, in particular it participates in Working Group meetings and in the events organized by Eastern Partnership countries on the regular basis.\n\nThe Working Group (Panel) is focused on the following areas:\n\n• “Civil service, public administration organizations and their functioning (human resources management, rules of recruitment, statutes)”;\n\n• “Transparency, e-governance and data protection”;\n\n• “Local / regional government and decentralization”;\n\n• “Effective management of technical assistance”.\n\nSince 2012 Ukraine has been a leading country in the area “Effective management of technical assistance”. Each year the NAUCS prepares and approves together with partners of the Eastern Partnership a Work plan for the relevant year in four mentioned areas.\n\nWithin the framework of cooperation with the EU initiative “Eastern Partnership”, the NAUCS developed a series of information-analytical and methodological materials on the civil service reform and its adaptation to EU standards, in particular:\n\n• brochure “The local self-government in the Eastern Partnership countries”;\n\n• handbook “Professional development of the civil servants in Eastern Partnership countries: results of comparative study of civil service reform”;\n\n• handbook “Civil Service in the Eastern Partnership Countries”\n\n• handbook “Development of the professional, stable and politically impartial civil service: the role of transformational leadership and organizational culture”.\n\nAs of the beginning of 2018, within the framework of cooperation with the EU initiative “Eastern Partnership”, the Center provided preparation and implementation of \n\n17 communicative activities.\n\nNATO–Ukraine Programme for Professional Development of the Civilian Personnel of the Sector of Security and Defence (hereinafter – Programme) – is an instrument aimed at supporting reforms in Ukraine through the training of civilian security and defense specialists who are capable of contributing to the effective functioning of the country's security and defense policy.\n\nAccording to the decision of the sixth meeting of the Commission on Ukraine Partnership with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on January 3, 2013, the NAUCS is definded as the national contact point and main executor of the NATO-Ukraine Programme for the Professional Development of Civilian Personnel of the Security and Defense.\n\nRealization of the Programme is carried out in accordance with the Annual National Programme under the NATO-Ukraine Commission; Decree of President of Ukraine as of \n\nJuly 8, 2016 No 296 “Issues of Coordination of Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine”; the Strategy for Sustainable Development “Ukraine 2020” approved by the Decree of the President of Ukraine as of January 12, 2015, No 5; Strategies of National Security of Ukraine, approved by the Decree of the President of Ukraine as of May 26, 2015, No 287; Military Doctrine of Ukraine, approved by Decree of the President of Ukraine as of September 24, 2015, No 555.\n\nWithin the framework of the Programme implementation, communicative and other events aimed at increasing of the professional competence of civil servants of the security and defense sector of Ukraine are being conducted, language training courses are conducted.\n\n"}
