{"id": "44099293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44099293", "title": "Abhutaparikalpa", "text": "Abhutaparikalpa\n\nAbhutaparikalpa is a concept which was developed by the Yogacara/Vijnanavada school of Buddhism with regard to definitions of reality identifying it as the dependent nature among the three natures postulated, and is described as neither empty nor not empty by adopting a neither nor position, that it is both existent and not existent. As \"parantantrasvabhava\" it exists as such but does not exist as it appears when affected by the 'subject-object duality' of \"parikalpitasvbhava\" freed from which it is the perfect nature of \"parinispannasvabhava\". This concept is refuted by Advaita Vedanta in the context of the Buddhist concept of 'momentary existence'.\n\nAbhūtaparikalpa or \"Ālayavijñāna\" means - imagining the object to exist as independent of consciousness. It is the basic concept in the Yogacara/Vijnanavada school which concept is identified as \"pratantrasvabhava\" (dependent nature), the second of the three natures postulated by this school. On the negative side of shunya \"Abhūtaparikalpa\" becomes associated with the imaginarily constructed duality of subject and object, but on the positive side it represents real existence in virtue of own nature.\nThe grammatical construction of the term \"Abhūtaparikalpa\" is interpreted by Sthiramati by taking it either as locus for the constructing of duality or as instrumental for the construction of unreal duality. For the Vijnanavadins both \"Abhūtaparikalpa\" which is \"paratantrasvabhava\" and a \"vastu existing substantialiter\", and \"shunyata\" which is \"parinispannasvabhavaca\" and not a \"vastu existing substantialiter\", are real. \"Abhutaparikalpa\" is described as neither empty nor not empty by adopting a neither nor position, that it is both existent and not existent. As \"parantantrasvabhava\" it exists as such but does not exist as it appears when affected by the subject-object duality of \"parikalpitasvbhava\" freed from which it is the perfect nature of \"parinispannasvabhava\". \n\nConsciousness is basically of two kinds – a) individual consciousness (\"pravrttivijnana\") or mind (manas, citta or vijnana), and b) Absolute Consciousness (\"Alayavijnana\"); the former has for its basis the 'five sense cognitions', 'normal consciousness' and 'continuous consciousness'; and the latter, according to Lankavatara, is 'permanent, immortal and never-changing storehouse of Consciousness'. The object which is firstly imagined or sensed, is thought about before being perceived, at the background of all these is the synthetic unity of perception called Chitta or \"Alaya\", also called Tathagata-garbha. The external world is the creation not of the mind but of the Absolute Consciousness, and the force behind creation is the beginningless tendency inspired by Avidya (ignorance) in the \"Alaya\" to manifest itself as subject and as object; the locus and object of this tendency is the \"Alaya\" itself. Individual consciousness is the manifestation of the \"Alaya\" of the Buddhists, though not accepted, is like the Nirvikalpa and \"Nirabhasaprajnagochara\" Atman of the Upanishads. The \"Vijnanavadins\" aver that \"shunayata\" is not absolute negation but the negation of something in something; the superimposed alone is to be negated because it is not real.\n\n\"Alaya consciousness\" of the Yogacara Buddhists is 'Buddhist Unconsciousness'. The Yogacara Buddhists were able to recognize the unconscious structuring of experience; they were able to conceptualize the awareness of awareness and differentiate a dimension of unconscious mental process called - \"Alayavijnana\", from the processes of conscious cognitive awareness – called \"Pravrittivijnana\". The concept of \"Alayavijnana\" or \"Abhutaparikalpa\" arose, as a subliminal perception of the world, in response to the Abhidharmic developments of earlier Buddhist doctrines. It arose by means of twofold ever-present subtle objective support: a) by the perception of inner appropriation (\"upādāna-vijñapti\") and b) by the outward perception of the receptacle world whose aspects are not clearly delineated (\"bahirdā apariccinnākāra bhājana-vijñapti\"). The term, \"Alaya\", means - 'that which is clung to', 'adhered to' or 'dwelled in', and is closely connected with bodily existence. Chogyam Trungpa explains that resting in the nature of \"Alaya\" means - going beyond the six sense consciousness, and even beyond the seventh consciousness, the fundamental discursive thought process which brings about the other six\". \"Alaya consciousness\" has as its characteristics of being both cause and effect; as cause it perishes and as fruit it is born, it never remains a single entity.\n\nShankara in his commentary on Brahma Sutras II.ii.31, which reads - क्षणिकत्वाच्च meaning – 'And (the ego-consciousness cannot be the abode), for it is momentary', refuting the Vijnanavada notion of the ideation-store asserts that unless there be some principle running through everything at all times, there can be no human dealing involving remembrance, recognition etc., which are contingent on past impressions that are stored up in conformity with environment, time and causation, and by arguing that if the 'ideation-store' is momentary then it is subject to arguments that have been brought forth against 'momentariness', and if it is permanent there is abandonment of the principle of 'momentariness'. In this context it is said that the co-existence of the principle of 'voidness' and the principle of the imagination of unreality revealed in the \"Madhyata-vibhanga\" which replaces Prakṛti with Shunya and Purusha with \"Abhutaparikalpa\", the imagination of unreality, attests that for the \"Vijnanvadins\", the principles of the eternal absolute and the changing phenomenal were not mutually exclusive.\n"}
{"id": "5421679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5421679", "title": "Adam Schaff", "text": "Adam Schaff\n\nAdam Schaff (10 March 1913 – 12 November 2006) was a Polish Marxist philosopher.\n\nOf Jewish origin, Schaff was born in Lemberg into a lawyer's family. Schaff studied economics at the \"Ecole des Sciences Politiques et Economiques\" in Paris, and philosophy in Poland, specializing in epistemology. In 1945 he received a philosophy degree at Moscow University, and in 1948 he returned to Warsaw University. He was considered the official ideologue of the Polish United Workers' Party. \nHe was a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences and of the Club of Rome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55934130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55934130", "title": "Alessandra Belloni", "text": "Alessandra Belloni\n\nAlessandra Belloni (born July 24, 1954 in Rome) is an Italian musician, singer, dancer, actress, choreographer, teacher, and ethnomusicologist. Her instrument is the Southern Italian tambourine and her music and dance are focused on the traditional roots of tarantella. Her studies of tarantism are rooted in the culture of Apulia and Calabria, expressing it from women's point of view. Her work has gained international appreciation, especially in the United States and Brazil. She is artist in residence at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine.\n\nAlessandra Belloni was born in Rome, daughter of a marble stoneworker and a mother from a musical family of Rocca di Papa. Her maternal grandfather worked as a baker but was famous in his village for playing music, especially tambourine. At the age of 17 in 1971, Belloni moved to New York to visit her sister and pursue a career in music. In 1974 she studied acting at HB Studio and briefly acted in films, playing a Turkish princess in the film \"Fellini's Casanova\", for which she learned belly dance. At New York University she studied under Dario Fo. She studied voice with Michael Warren and Walter Blazer.\n\nWhile back in Italy, she decided that film was not to be her career. Federico Fellini advised her: I notice that you are very serious... you're an artist. You are not like the other girls here... You know what I say? You've got to return to New York. Don't stay here because if I had been able to do in America what I do here, if I knew English, I would have done it.\n\nIn 1980 she co-founded, with John La Barbera, the music, folk dance, and theater group I Giullari di Piazza ('the town square players'), which has performed in the United States and Europe, and is in residency at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. She studied traditional tambourine technique with the Sicilian percussionist Alfio Antico, renowned for his ability to create \"magical and primordial\" atmospheres. She has also worked with percussionist Glen Velez, the leading figure in the revival of frame drumming in America, whom she met in 1982 through her work in Bread and Puppet Theater. Velez gave her a book, \"La Terra del Rimorso\" (\"The Land of Remorse\") by Ernesto De Martino, which inspired her to study Apulian tarantism. Beginning in 1984, Belloni has taken part in the feast of San Rocco of Torrepaduli in Salento, Apulia, a traditional summer event for tambourines and \"pizziche\". Her former husband's name was Dario Bollini.\n\nThe traditional dance she teaches is presented as an ancient healing ritual for women suffering from repressed sexuality, abuse, powerlessness, and the feeling of being caught in a web that binds them. Belloni emphasizes that tarantella music and dance, as popularly known today around the world, is different from its origins in Apulian folk culture, going back to the ancient Greeks. The \"spider bite\" or \"tarantismo\", being psychosexual injury, formerly called hysteria, affects women with depression and loneliness, and can be healed by drumming and dancing the ancient \"pizzica tarantata.\" Belloni teaches that a woman suffering from such \"bite\" is called a \"tarantata\", and the music and dance for healing it is called \"pizzica\", referring to the spider's bite. By dancing oneself into ecstatic trance with the support of the community, a sufferer seeks to expel the \"venom\" and be restored to health.\n\nBelloni has integrated her work studying women's therapeutic dance and drumming with traditions of the Black Madonna in several countries, including the Madonna of Montevergine in Campania. Like many before her, she connects devotion to the Black Madonna with pre-Christian Goddess worship dating back to the ancient Greeks, who colonized Apulia as part of Magna Graecia long before the rise of Rome.\n\nBelloni has brought into her art influences from song and drumming of Brazil, invoking Yemanjá and Oshun. For example, in \"Canto di Sant'Irene\" she sings \"In Calabria è Maria / Yemanjá è a Bahia\" ('In Calabria she is Mary; she is Yemanjá in Bahia'). In connection with Yemanjá, Belloni plays the Remo ocean drum, which produces ocean wave-like sounds. In addition to revivifying traditional music, she has composed an oeuvre of original songs inspired by Black Madonnas and others on Brazilian themes, as well as love songs after the Italian tradition. She has also worked to integrate her music with African drumming, saying: \"It appeals to me, because I do believe that this form of music therapy and this healing drumming originated in Southern Italy, but in the history most of it comes from Africa, because Africa is closer to us than Northern Europe. All of this connected in the ancient times, and it makes a lot of sense to do it now in America, because it really is like continuing the normal evolution of this music.\"\n\nBelloni conducts dance therapy workshops, titled \"Rhythm is the Cure,\" in New York, Italy, and other places in the United States and Europe. Participants dress in white with red sashes. Since 2009, she has led a New York City troupe of women drummers named the Daughters of Cybele.\n\nBelloni's stage shows \"Rhythm Is the Cure\" and \"Tarantella Spider Dance\" are productions combining music, \"tammuriata\" dance and drumming, drama, fire dance, and aerial dance. \"Spider Dance\" starts with the birth of Spider Woman and traces the development of \"pizzica tarantata\" tradition from ancient Greek rituals of Cybele and Dionysus to Italian folk tradition.\n\nThe Remo drum company produces a signature line of Alessandra Belloni tambourines depicting the Black Madonna of Montserrat.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "328352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328352", "title": "Anastomosis", "text": "Anastomosis\n\nAn anastomosis (plural anastomoses) is a connection or opening between two things (especially cavities or passages) that are normally diverging or branching, such as between blood vessels, leaf veins, or streams. Such a connection may be normal (such as the foramen ovale in a fetus's heart) or abnormal (such as the patent foramen ovale in an adult's heart); it may be acquired (such as an arteriovenous fistula) or innate (such as the arteriovenous shunt of a metarteriole); and it may be natural (such as the aforementioned examples) or artificial (such as a surgical anastomosis). The reestablishment of an anastomosis that had become blocked is called a reanastomosis. Anastomoses that are abnormal, whether congenital or acquired, are often called fistulas.\n\nThe term is used in medicine, biology, mycology, geology, geography and architecture.\n\nAnastomosis: medical or Modern Latin, from Greek ἀναστόμωσις, anastomosis, \"outlet, opening\", Gr ana- \"up, on, upon\", stoma \"mouth\", \"to furnish with a mouth\". Thus the \"-stom-\" syllable is cognate with that of \"stoma\" in botany or \"stoma\" in medicine.\n\nAn anastomosis is the connection of two normally divergent structures. It refers to connections between blood vessels or between other tubular structures such as loops of intestine.\n\nIn circulatory anastomoses, many arteries naturally anastomose with each other; for example, the inferior epigastric artery and superior epigastric artery, or the anterior and/or posterior communicating arteries in the Circle of Willis in the brain. The circulatory anastomosis is further divided into arterial and venous anastomosis. Arterial anastomosis includes actual arterial anastomosis (e.g., palmar arch, plantar arch) and potential arterial anastomosis (e.g. coronary arteries and cortical branch of cerebral arteries). Anastomoses also form alternative routes around capillary beds in areas that don't need a large blood supply, thus helping regulate systemic blood flow.\n\nAn example of surgical anastomosis occurs when a segment of intestine, blood vessel, or any other structure are connected together (anastomosed). Examples include intestinal anastomosis, Roux-en-Y anastomosis or ureteroureterostomy. Surgical anastamosis techniques include Linear Stapled Anastomosis, Hand Sewn Anastomosis, End-to-End Anastomosis (EEA). Anastomosis can be performed by hand or with an anastomosis assist device. Studies have been performed comparing various anastomosis approaches taking into account surgical \"time and cost, postoperative anastomotic bleeding, leakage, and stricture\".\n\nPathological anastomosis results from trauma or disease and may involve veins, arteries, or intestines. These are usually referred to as fistulas. In the cases of veins or arteries, traumatic fistulas usually occur between artery and vein. Traumatic intestinal fistulas usually occur between two loops of intestine (entero-enteric fistula) or intestine and skin (enterocutaneous fistula). Portacaval anastomosis, by contrast, is an anastomosis between a vein of the portal circulation and a vein of the systemic circulation, which allows blood to bypass the liver in patients with portal hypertension, often resulting in hemorrhoids, esophageal varices, or caput medusae.\n\nIn evolution, anastomosis is a recombination of evolutionary lineage. Conventional accounts of evolutionary lineage present themselves as the simple branching out of species into novel forms. Under anastomosis, species might recombine after initial branching out, such as in the case of recent research that shows that ancestral populations along human and chimpanzee lineages may have interbred after an initial branching event. The concept of anastomosis also applies to the theory of symbiogenesis, in which new species emerge from the formation of novel symbiotic relationships.\n\nIn mycology, anastomosis is the fusion between branches of the same or different hyphae. Hence the bifurcating fungal hyphae can form true reticulating networks. By sharing materials in the form of dissolved ions, hormones, and nucleotides, the fungus maintains bidirectional communication with itself. The fungal network might begin from several origins; several spores (\"i.e.\" by means of conidial anastomosis tubes), several points of penetration, each a spreading circumference of absorption and assimilation. Once encountering the tip of another expanding, exploring self, the tips press against each other in pheromonal recognition or by an unknown recognition system, fusing to form a genetic singular clonal colony that can cover hectares called a genet or just microscopical areas.\n\nFor fungi, anastomosis is also a component of reproduction. In some fungi, two different haploid mating types – if compatible – merge. Somatically, they form a morphologically similar mycelial wave front that continues to grow and explore. The significant difference, is that each septated unit is binucleate, containing two unfused nuclei, i.e., one from each parent that eventually undergoes karyogamy and meiosis to complete the sexual cycle.\n\nAlso the term \"anastomosing\" is used for mushroom gills which interlink and separate to form a network.\n\nIn geology, anastomosis refers to quartz (or other) veins displaying this property, which is often related to shearing in metamorphic regions.\n\nAnastomosing streams consist of multiple channels that divide and reconnect and are separated by semi-permanent banks formed of cohesive material, such that they are unlikely to migrate from one channel position to another. They can be confused with braiding, the splitting of a river by sand bars or hard rocks and some definitions require that an anastomosing river be made up of interconnected channels that enclose floodbasins. Rivers with anastomosed reaches include the Magdalena River in Colombia, the upper Columbia River in British Columbia, Canada, and the upper Narew River in Poland. The term anabranch has been used for segments of anastamosing rivers.\n"}
{"id": "20122942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20122942", "title": "Arran Gare", "text": "Arran Gare\n\nArran Emrys Gare (; born 1948) is an Australian philosopher known mainly for his work in environmental philosophy, philosophy of science, philosophy of culture and the metaphysics of process philosophy. He currently holds the position of Associate Professor in the Faculty of Life and Social Sciences at Swinburne University of Technology in Melbourne, Australia.\n\nGare is the son of Frank Gare ISO, former Commissioner for Native Welfare and Regional Director of Aboriginal Affairs in Western Australia, and Nene Gare, author of \"The Fringe Dwellers\" and other novels. He is also the brother of Shelley Gare, an Australian author and journalist.\n\nGare attended Applecross Senior High School, then graduated from the University of Western Australia with a BA (Hons) in philosophy. He then wrote his PhD, (\"Science, Process Philosophy and the Image of Man: the metaphysical foundations for a critical social science\"), at Murdoch University in which he formed his version of process metaphysics. On the basis of this he won a Postdoctoral Fulbright Fellowship to Boston University. Gare has taught at Murdoch University, University of Queensland, Curtin University and Swinburne University. In 2006 he was a Keynote Speaker to the 6th International Whitehead Conference at Salzburg University, Austria, delivering a paper entitled: \"Reviving the Radical Enlightenment\". More recently he has aligned himself with Chinese environmentalists in the quest to create a global ecological civilisation.\n\nGare's work is mainly in environmental philosophy, the history and philosophy of science, philosophy of culture and the metaphysics of process philosophy. In 1983 with Robert Elliot he published Environmental Philosophy, one of the first anthologies in this field. In 1993 he published\" Nihilism Incorporated: European Civilization and Environmental Destruction\" and \"Beyond European Civilization: Marxism, Process Philosophy and the Environment\", and then in 1995 \"Postmodernism and the Environmental Crisis.\" In these works he attempted to explain the ascendance, world domination and environmental destructiveness of European civilisation, the failure of orthodox Marxism as practised in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe to provide a real alternative to this, and the ineffectuality of deconstructive postmodernism in the face of the ecological crisis confronting humanity, while offering a different path into the future based on a synthesis of process metaphysics, neo-Aristotelian ethics, neo-Hegelian political philosophy and eco-Marxism. In 1996 he published \"Nihilism Inc.: Environmental Destruction and the Metaphysics of Sustainability. \"\n\nIn more recent work Gare has published in the fields of narratology, hermeneutics, semiotics, complexity theory, theoretical biology, human ecology and philosophical anthropology, Schelling's philosophy, Chinese philosophy and Christopher Alexander's theories of architecture, and called for a revival of the Radical Enlightenment as the true heir of the Renaissance struggle for democracy and for the creation of an ecological civilisation as a new world order based on a new relationship between humanity and nature. More specifically, he has been concerned to revive and reformulate on naturalistic foundations the ethics and political philosophy of the liberal socialists inspired by T.H. Green, develop more adequate theoretical foundations for human ecology and ecological economics to provide an alternative to neo-classical economics as the core discipline for formulating public policy, and develop a form of retrospective path analysis as an alternative to cost-benefit analysis as a framework for formulating such policy. These ideas have been synthesised in his book \"The Philosophical Foundations of Ecological Civilization: A manifesto for the future\" published in 2016. Such work revives the traditional ambitions of philosophy, and as such, is a challenge to philosophy’s current marginalization. In defence of his conception of philosophy he has worked to revive the tradition of speculative naturalism, an outcome of which has been the publication in 2017 of the anthology \"For a New Naturalism\", co-edited with Wayne Hudson. \n\nA critical review of his work has been made from within the domain of process philosophy by McLaren.\n\nHe is the founder and a chief editor of the online journal \"Cosmos and History: The Journal of Natural and Social Philosophy\" () which is a peer-reviewed, open-access journal of natural and social philosophy. Quoting the journal: \"It serves those who see philosophy's vocation in questioning and challenging prevailing assumptions about ourselves and our place in the world, developing new ways of thinking about physical existence, life, humanity and society, so helping to create the future insofar as thought affects the issue. Philosophy so conceived is not exclusively identified with the work of professional philosophers, and the journal welcomes contributions from philosophically oriented thinkers from all disciplines.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1035528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1035528", "title": "Astrological age", "text": "Astrological age\n\nAn astrological age is a time period in astrologic theology which astrologers claim parallels major changes in the development of Earth's inhabitants, particularly relating to culture, society, and politics. There are twelve astrological ages corresponding to the twelve zodiacal signs in western astrology. Advocates believe that when one cycle of the twelve astrological ages is completed, another cycle of twelve ages begins. The length of one cycle of twelve ages is 25,860 years.\n\nSome astrologers believe that during a given age, some events are directly caused or indirectly influenced by the astrological sign associated with that age, while other astrologers believe the different astrological ages do not influence events in any way.\n\nAstrologers do not agree upon exact dates for the beginning or ending of the ages, with given dates varying hundreds of years.\n\nThere are three broad perspectives on the astrological ages:\n\n\nDefinitive details on the astrological ages are lacking, and consequently most details available about the astrological ages are disputed. The 20th century British astrologer Charles Carter stated that\n\"It is probable that there is no branch of Astrology upon which more nonsense has been poured forth than the doctrine of the precession of the equinoxes.\" (precession of the equinoxes as the root cause of the astrological ages)\n\nRay Grasse states in \"Signs of the Times - Unlocking the Symbolic Language of World Events\" that \"there is considerable dispute over the exact starting and ending times for the different Great Ages.\" Paul Wright in \"The Great Ages and Other Astrological Cycles\" believes that much of the uncertainty related to the astrological ages is because many astrologers have a poor understanding of the meaning of the astrological symbolism and \"even poorer historical knowledge\".\n\nThough so many issues are contentious or disputed, there are two aspects of the astrological ages that have virtually unanimous consensus—firstly, the claimed link of the astrological ages to the axial precession of the Earth and commonly referred to as \"precession of the equinoxes\"; secondly, that, due to the nature of the precession of the equinoxes, the progression of the ages proceeds in reverse direction through the zodiacal signs.\n\nAstrologers use many ways to divide the Great Year into twelve astrological ages. There are two popular methods. One method is to divide the Great Year into twelve astrological ages of approximately equal lengths of around 2160 years per age based on the vernal equinox moving through the sidereal zodiac. Another method is to significantly vary the duration of each astrological age based on the passage of the vernal equinox measured against the actual zodiacal constellations. Each of those twelve sections of the Great Year can be called either an astrological age, Precessional Age or a Great Month.\n\nThe method based on the zodiacal constellations has a flaw in that the stars of many constellations overlap. For example, by 2700 the vernal point will have moved into Aquarius, but due to overlap the vernal point will also point to Pisces.\n\nMany astrologers consider the entrance into a new astrological age a gradual transition called a \"cusp\". For example, Ray Grasse states that an astrological age does not begin at an exact day or year. Paul Wright states that a transition effect does occur at the border of the astrological ages. Consequently, the beginning of any age cannot be defined to a single year or a decade but blend its influences with the previous age for a period of time until the new age can stand in its own right. \n\nMany astrologers believe that the world is transitioning from the Pisces and Aquarian Ages , which is claimed to explain that developments in the world today can be aligned to Pisces (i.e. continuing strong religious influences especially from Christianity) and Aquarius (traditional archetypes associated with Aquarius include electricity, computers, and democracy) . A few astrologers consider the last c. 10 degrees of a given age (c. 720 years) as the time period during which the new age starts to make visible its influences, also called \"orb of influence\". In Nicholas Campion's \"The Book of World Horoscopes\" there are six pages listing researchers and their proposed dates for the start of the Age of Aquarius indicating that many researchers believe that each age commences at an exact date.\n\nAlbert Amao Ph.D. states that the transition period between any two ages is based on one degrees either side of the point of intersection of two adjoining zodiacal constellations. As one degree is approximately 72 years, Amao has a transition period between ages of 144 years.\n\nMany astrologers find ages too erratic based on either the vernal point moving through the randomly sized zodiacal constellations or sidereal zodiac and, instead, round all astrological ages to exactly 2000 years each. In this approach the ages are usually neatly aligned so that the Aries age is found from 2000 BC to AD 1, Pisces age AD 1 to AD 2000, the Aquarian Age AD 2000 - AD 4000, and so on. This approach is inconsistent with the precession of the equinoxes. Based on precession of the equinoxes, there is a one-degree shift approximately every 72 years, so a 30-degree movement requires 2160 years to complete.\n\nAn established school of thought that an age is also influenced by the sign opposite to the one of the astrological age. Referring back to the precession of the Equinoxes, as the Sun crosses one constellation in the Northern Hemisphere's spring Equinox (March 21), it will cross the opposite sign in the spring Equinox in the Southern Hemisphere (September 21). For instance, the Age of Pisces is complemented by its opposite astrological sign of Virgo (the Virgin); so a few refer to the Piscean age as the 'Age of Pisces-Virgo'. Adopting this approach, the Age of Aquarius would become the Age of Aquarius-Leo. Ray Grasse also claims that each sign of the zodiac is involving with the opposite sign.\n\nWilliam Sullivan in \"The Secret of the Incas\" claims there is a direct connection between the history of the Inca Empire and precession of the equinoxes. John Major Jenkins in 'Maya Cosmogenesis 2012' believes that the Mayan Long Count Calendar is based on precession of the equinoxes and solstices. Jenkins believes that the Maya related the precession of the winter solstice sunrise against the Milky Way—an event which is currently developing and supposedly instrumental in mankind's spiritual renewal.\n\nThe great demarcation point in the history of the astrological ages is around 127 BC when the Greek astronomer-astrologer Hipparchus from observation discovered that the great immovable sphere of fixed stars was not fixed but slowly moving eastwards due to what is now known as precession of the equinoxes. It is possible that some other astronomers before Hipparchus had also noticed the phenomenon, but it is Hipparchus who is credited with this discovery. \n\nThis discovery by Hipparchus is not entirely unexpected as Hipparchus is considered to have been the greatest observational astronomer in his time and up until Tycho Brahe in the 16th century AD. What is highly contentious in modern times is the claim by many that observation of the effects of precession of the equinoxes was known well before the time of Hipparchus and his contemporaries in Greece or even Mesopotamia. The academic answer is no – precession of the equinoxes was unknown in earlier times.\n\nGiorgio de Santillana (1902 – 1974) became professor of the History of Science in the School of Humanities at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1954, and along with Hertha von Dechend they published a book entitled \"Hamlet's Mill, An Essay on Myth and the Frame of Time\" in 1969. It was an attempt to marry science and mythology that had become separated by the ancient Greeks. Santillana and von Dechend believed that the old mythological stories handed down from antiquity were not random fictitious tales but were accurate depictions of celestial cosmology clothed in tales to aid their oral transmission. The chaos, monsters, and violence in ancient myths are representative of the forces that shape each age. They believed that ancient myths are the remains of preliterate astronomy that became lost with the rise of the Greco-Roman civilization.\n\nSantillana and von Dechend state that ancient myths have no historical basis but a cosmological one based on a primitive form of astrology. They recognized the importance of the heliacally rising constellation as markers for the astrological ages and claimed that knowledge of this phenomenon had been known for thousands of years previously. They claim that to understand ancient thinking it is necessary to understand astrology, not the modern sun-sign or horoscopic astrology, but the astrology of ancient times which was the \"lingua franca\" of ancient times.\n\nThey go further and state that our knowledge of the dawn of astrology and its relationship to ancient myths and star names is limited, and only extends back to about 2100 BC, which was during the Renaissance of Sumerian Culture; we are not able, they say, to examine older material on the subject. In \"Hamlet's Mill\" it is claimed that the ancient Greeks knew of three successive destructions that correlate to three ages, and that since the beginning of history the vernal point has moved through Taurus, Aries, and Pisces. Hesiod in \"Works and Days\" refers to five successive ages.\n\nAs early as 1811, modern researchers were examining evidence for knowledge of precession of the equinoxes and astrological ages before Hipparchus. Sir William Drummond published \"Oedipus Judaicus - Allegory in the Old Testament\" in 1811. Drummond expounds on his hypothesis that a greater part of the Hebrew Scriptures are merely allegorical writings that hide the true content. Furthermore, the Orientalists were mainly concerned with astronomy and most of their ancient myths are really disguised astronomical records. Drummond believed that the 49th chapter of Genesis contains prophecies allied to astronomy and that the twelve tribes of Israel represented the 12 zodiacal signs. \n\nDrummond makes his case that at the time of Abraham, the Amorites first recorded the shift from the Age of Taurus to the Age of Aries as represented by the year commencing with the Ram (Aries) rather than the bull (Taurus). The Book of Joshua indicates that by the time of Moses the equinoxes had already shifted from Taurus to Aries, as Moses had ordained that the civil year should commence with the month of Nisan (Aries) rather than the month of Taurus. The feast of the Passover is probably a celebration of the Age of Aries with the Paschal Lamb representative of Aries, traditionally associated with the symbol of the ram or sheep. \n\nDrummond also hypothesizes that most number references in ancient texts were coded to hide their real value by multiples of 1,000. For example, in the Old Testament Joshua commanded 30,000 men, and he slew 12,000 inhabitants of the city of Ai. The historian Berosus stated the Babylonians commenced astronomical observations 49,000 years (7 x 7 x 1000) before Alexander the Great. Most early references were related to 7 (Sun, Moon, and five visible planets), 12 (number of zodiacal signs and months per year), 30 (degrees per sign of the zodiac), and higher combinations of these numbers and other numbers associated with astronomical observations and astrology.\n\nThe problem of understanding the exact nature of ancient astrology is that it was only partly documented, leaving the question of the extent of their undocumented astrological knowledge. Michael Baigent in \"From the Omens of Babylon: Astrology and Ancient Mesopotamia\" suggests that there is evidence that there was probably an older or parallel oral tradition of astrology at the time of publication of Enuma Anu Enlil believed published over the period (1595–1157 BC). The ancient Mesopotamians believed that history repeated itself after a massive cycle of many years.\n\nIn the early post-Hipparchus period, two schools of thought developed about the slow shift of the fixed sphere of stars as discovered by Hipparchus. One school believed that at 1 degree shift per 100 years, the sphere of fixed stars would return to its starting point after 36,000 years. The trepidation school believed that the fixed stars first moved one way, then moved the other way - similar to a giant pendulum. It was believed that the 'swinging' stars first moved 8 degrees one direction, then reversed this 8 degrees travelling the other direction. \n\nTheon of Alexandria in the 4th century AD includes trepidation when he wrote \"Small Commentary to the Handy Tables\". In the 5th century AD, the Greek Neoplatonist philosopher Proclus mentions that both theories were being discussed. The Indians around the 5th century AD preferred the trepidation theory but because they had observed the movement of the fixed stars by 25 degrees since ancient times (since around 1325 BC), they considered that trepidation swung back and forth around 27 degrees.\n\nThe significant early exponent of the 'circular 36,000' years method was Ptolemy and, due to the status placed upon Ptolemy by later scholars, the Christian and Muslim astronomers of the Middle Ages accepted the Great Year of 36,000 years rather than trepidation. However some scholars gave credence to both theories based on the addition of another sphere which is represented in the Alfonsine tables produced by the Toledo School of Translators in the 12th and 13th centuries. The Alfonsine tables computed the positions of the sun, moon, and planets relative to the fixed stars. The Italian astronomer Cecco d'Ascoli, professor of astrology at the University of Bologna in the early 14th century, continued to have faith in trepidation but believed it swung 10 degrees in either direction. Copernicus refers to trepidation in \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" published in 1543.\n\nThough the one degree per hundred years calculated for precession of the equinoxes as defined by Hipparchus and promulgated by Ptolemy was too slow, another rate of precession that was too fast also gained popularity in the 1st millennium AD. By the fourth century AD, Theon of Alexandria assumed a changing rate (trepidation) of one degree per 66 years. The tables of the Shah (Zij-i Shah) originate in the sixth century, but are unfortunately lost, but many later Arabic and Persian astronomers and astrologers refer to them and also use this value. \n\nThese later astronomers-astrologers or sources include: Al-Khwarizmi, Zij al Sindhind or \"Star Tables Based on the Indian Calculation Method\"(c. 800); Tabulae probatae\" or \"az-Zig al-mumtan\" (c. 830); Al-Battani, Albategnius, al-Zij (c. 880); and al-Sufi, Azophi (c. 965); Al Biruni (973-1048), \"al Canon al Masud\" or \"The Masʿūdic Canon\"; Arabic fixed star cataloque of 1 October 1112 (ed. Paul Kunitzsch); and \"Libros del Saber de Astronomía\" by Alfonso X of Castile(1252-1284). At one degree per 66 years, one decan of a zodiacal sign (i.e. 10 degrees) is precessed in a period of 666 years - a value made famous in the Book of Revelation as the Number of the Beast .\n\nThere exists evidence that the modern calendar developed by Dionysius Exiguus in the 6th century AD commencing with the birth of Jesus Christ at AD 1 was influenced by precession of the equinoxes and astrological ages. Dionysius' desire to replace Diocletian years (Diocletian persecuted Christians) with a calendar based on the incarnation of Christ was to prevent people from believing the imminent end of the world. At the time it was believed that the Resurrection and end of the world would occur 500 years after the birth of Jesus. The current Anno Mundi calendar theoretically commenced with the creation of the world based on information in the Old Testament. It was believed that based on the Anno Mundi calendar Jesus was born in the year 5500 (or 5500 years after the world was created) with the year 6000 of the Anno Mundi calendar marking the end of the world. \n\nAnno Mundi 6000 (approximately AD 500) was thus equated with the resurrection of Christ and the end of the world. Since this date had already passed in the time of Dionysius, he therefore searched for a new end of the world at a later date. He was heavily influenced by ancient cosmology, in particular the doctrine of the Great Year that places a strong emphasis on planetary conjunctions. This doctrine says that when all the planets were in conjunction that this cosmic event would mark the end of the world. Dionysius accurately calculated that this conjunction would occur in May AD 2000. Dionysius then applied another astronomical timing mechanism based on precession of the equinoxes. Though incorrect, some oriental astronomers at the time believed that the precessional cycle was 24,000 years which included twelve astrological ages of 2,000 years each. Dionysius believed that if the planetary alignment marked the end of an age (i.e. the Pisces age), then the birth of Jesus Christ marked the beginning of the Age of Pisces 2,000 years earlier. He therefore deducted 2,000 years from the May 2000 conjunction to produce AD 1 for the incarnation of Christ.\n\nThe renown Jewish astronomer and astrologer Masha’allah (c.740 – 815 CE) employed precession of the equinoxes for calculating the period “Era of the Flood” dated as 3360 BCE or 259 years before the Indian Kali Yuga, believed to have commenced in 3101 BCE.\n\nThe 15th century Italian Renaissance philosopher Giovanni Pico della Mirandola published a massive attack on astrological predictions, but he did not object to all of astrology and he commented on the position of the vernal point in his day. Pico was aware of the effects of precession of the equinoxes and knew that the first point of Aries no longer existed in the constellation of Aries. Pico not only knew that the vernal point had shifted back into Pisces, he stated that in his time, the vernal point (zero degrees tropical Aries) was located at 2 degrees (sidereal) Pisces. This suggests that by whatever method of calculation he was employing, Pico expected the vernal point to shift into (sidereal) Aquarius age 144 years later as a one degree shift takes 72 years.\n\nThe Earth, in addition to its diurnal (daily) rotation upon its axis and annual rotation around the Sun, incurs a precessional motion involving a slow periodic shift of the axis itself: approximately one degree every 72 years. This motion, which is caused mostly by the Moon's gravity, gives rise to the precession of the equinoxes in which the Sun's position on the ecliptic at the time of the vernal equinox, measured against the background of fixed stars, gradually changes with time.\n\nIn graphical terms, the Earth behaves like a spinning top, and tops tend to wobble as they spin. The spin of the Earth is its daily (diurnal) rotation. The spinning Earth slowly wobbles over a period slightly less than 26,000 years. From our perspective on Earth, the stars are ever so slightly 'moving' from west to east at the rate of one degree approximately every 72 years. One degree is about twice the diameter of the Sun or Moon as viewed from Earth. The easiest way to notice this slow movement of the stars is at any fixed time each year. The most common fixed time is at the vernal equinox around 21 March each year.\n\nIn astrology, an astrological age has usually been defined by the constellation or superimposed sidereal zodiac in which the Sun actually appears at the vernal equinox. This is the method that Hipparchus appears to have applied around 127 BC when he calculated precession. Since each sign of the zodiac is composed of 30 degrees, each astrological age might be thought to last about 72 (years) × 30 (degrees) = about 2160 years. \n\nThis means the Sun crosses the equator at the vernal equinox moving backwards against the fixed stars from one year to the next at the rate of one degree in seventy-two years, one constellation (on average) in about 2160 years, and the whole twelve signs in about 25,920 years, sometimes called a Platonic Year. However the length of the ages are decreasing with time as the rate of precession is increasing. Therefore, no two ages are of equal length.\n\nApproximately every 26,000 years the zodiacal constellations, the associated sidereal zodiac, and the tropical zodiac used by western astrologers basically align. Technically this is when the tropical and sidereal \"first point in Aries\" (Aries 0°) coincided. This alignment is often called the fiducial point and, if the fiducial point could be found, fairly exact timeframes of all the astrological ages could be accurately determined if the method used to determine the astrological ages is based on the equal-sized 30 degrees per age and do not correspond to the exact constellation configuration in the sky. \n\nHowever this fiducial point is difficult to determine because while there is no ambiguity about the tropical zodiac used by western astrologers, the same cannot be said of the sidereal zodiac used by Vedic astrologers. Vedic astrologers do not have unanimity on the exact location in space of their sidereal zodiac. This is because the sidereal zodiac is superimposed upon the irregular zodiacal constellation, and there are no unambiguous boundaries of the zodiacal constellations. \n\nModern day astronomers have defined boundaries, but this is a recent development by astronomers who are divorced from astrology, and cannot be assumed to be correct from the astrological perspective. While most astronomers and some astrologers agree that the fiducial point occurred in or around the 3rd to 5th centuries AD, there is no consensus on any exact date or tight timeframe within these three centuries. A number of dates are proposed by various astronomers and even wider timeframes by astrologers. (For an alternative approach to calibrating precession, see Alternative approach to calibrating precession in New, alternative, and fringe theories section below).\n\nAs an example of a mystic contemporary approach to precession, in Max Heindel's astrology writings, it is described, that last time the starting-point of the sidereal zodiac agreed with the tropical zodiac occurred in AD 498. A year after these points were in exact agreement, the Sun crossed the equator about fifty seconds of space into the constellation Pisces. The year following it was one minute and forty seconds into Pisces, and so it has been creeping backwards ever since, until at the present time the Sun crosses the equator in about nine degrees in the constellation Pisces. Based on this approach, it will thus be about 600 years before it actually crosses the celestial equator in the constellation Aquarius. However this is only one of many approaches and so this must remain speculation at this point of time.\n\nSymbol for Leo: \n\nWhen the March equinox used to occur in Leo.\n\n\n\"The Golden Age\". The major event in this age was deglaciation of what now constitutes much of the modern habitable world. The deglaciation ultimately caused a 300-foot (90 m) rise in the sea level. The sign Leo is a Fire sign and is mythically ruled by the Sun in astrology.\n\nSymbol for Cancer: \n\nWhen the March equinox used to occur in Cancer;\n\n\n\"The Age of the Great Mother.\" Cancer is ruled by the Moon, and is associated with the process of bearing, birthing, nurturing, and protecting. In astrologic mythology this age marks the beginning of civilization, with domestication of farm animals and nomadic people settling down to living in permanent dwellings.\n\nWidespread evidence of the mother goddess in the Near East (the 'mother' archetype in all shapes and forms is always related to the sign Cancer).\n\nSymbol for Gemini: \n\nWhen the March equinox used to occur in Gemini;\n\n\n\"The Age of Communication, Trade and the Twins\"\n\nDuring this mythological age writing developed, and trade started to accelerate. The constellation can be seen as two people holding hands (thought to be twins), believed by some to be symbolic for trade and communication of peoples. In myths associated with the constellation of Gemini, both writing (including literature, newspapers, journals, magazines, and works of fiction) and trade (including merchants) are traditional archetypes belonging to the sign of Gemini.\n\nMost forms of local transportation are archetypes mythologically linked with the sign of Gemini.\n\nMultiple gods, such as the pantheon of gods in Ancient Greek literature, are believed to have appeared in this Gemini age probably in Sumer (Mesopotamia). (Gemini is not only associated with the archetype of 'twins' and 'duality' but also 'multiplicity')\n\nSymbol for Taurus: \n\nWhen the March equinox used to occur in Taurus;\n\n\n\"The Age of Earth, Agriculture, and the Bull\" This age is claimed to have occurred approximately around the time of the building of the Pyramids in Egypt.\n\nBull worshiping cults began to form in Assyria, Egypt, and Crete during this mythological age.\n\n\nSymbol for Aries: \n\nWhen the March equinox used to occur in Aries;\n\n\n\"The Age of War, Fire, and the Ram\"\n\nAries represents a Fire symbol as well as bold actions, a lot of these behaviors can be seen during any age. However, the themes emphasised during this age relate to courage, initiative, war, and adventure. Nations during this age such as the expanding empires of China, Persia, Greece, and Rome, are often cited as examples of the archetypes of Aries in action. Also the Aries constellation shows a ram running. This could correspond with the sacrifice of Abraham's Ram. While the number of names containing the sound of the ram during this period is noted: Ra (Sun God), Ram, Rama, Brahman, Brahma, Abram/Abraham, Amon Ra, and Ramesses I. The battering ram was employed by the Assyrians, Greeks, and Romans with great success during this time. (The symbol of Mars, the planetary ruler of Aries, evokes this interpretation.) According to the Roman state religion, the Roman people were the \"Sons of Mars\".\n\nAries is associated with the metal iron, and iron ore was for the first time smelted and worked into iron swords in Anatolia during the early phase of this era, replacing the heavier, softer-metalled, duller-edged bronze swords of the previous Taurus Age.\n\nTraits of Aries such as 'initiative' may suggest the explosion of originality in the development of social aspects, sciences and arts in regions such as Ancient Greece but at the same time traits such as 'Impulsivity' may be attributed to the various Wars of the time.\n\nThe Age of Aries ushered in efforts to replace polytheism with monotheism. The earliest known attempt was by the Egyptian Pharaoh Akhenaten, who, in about 1350 BC, decreed the Sun God Aten to be the supreme deity, apparently in reaction to his earlier lack of inclusion in religious rites by his family. After his death, however, power reverted to the original polytheistic priests, who re-established the old religion. Speculation (including that of Freud) has it that later, during the reign of Ramesses II, Moses was influenced by rumour of Akhenaten's revolutionary idea, and grasped the idea of a single supreme God, who especially favoured his people, as an inspirational mechanism that best suited his people held in bondage. The symbol of Aries can be seen as representing the power of multiple gods streaming down into a single god-head.\n\nMoses (born c. 16th–13th century BC; 7 Adar 2368 – 7 Adar 2488 in the Hebrew calendar), an early Biblical Hebrew religious leader, lawgiver, prophet, and military leader, condemns his own people upon finding them worshiping a 'golden calf' (a symbol of the previous Age of Taurus and of the worship of the bull deity) after coming down Mount Sinai. These events may have occurred during the Age of Aries (see also dating the Exodus).\n\nSee also:\n\nSymbol for Pisces: \n\nWhile the March equinox occurs in Pisces;\n\nSome astrologers claim the Age of Pisces is the current age and they believe it will remain so for approximately another 600 years. At that time, the vernal equinox point will have moved into the constellation of Aquarius, thus beginning the Age of Aquarius. Other astrologers claim the Age of Pisces ended with the great cosmic alignment of 21 December 2012, thus beginning the Age of Aquarius.\n\n\n\"The Age of Monotheism, Spirituality, and the Fish\"\n\nThe age of Pisces began 1 AD and will end 2150 AD. With the story of the birth of Christ coinciding with this date, many Christian symbols for Christ use the astrological symbol for Pisces, the fishes. Jesus bears many of the temperaments and personality traits of a Pisces, and is thus considered an archetype of the Piscean. Moreover, the twelve apostles were called the \"fishers of men,\" early Christians called themselves \"little fishes,\" and a code word for Jesus was the Greek word for fish, \"Ikhthus.\" With this, the start of the age, or the \"Great Month of Pisces\" is regarded as the beginning of the Christian religion. Saint Peter is recognized as the apostle of the Piscean sign.\n\nPisces has been called the \"dying god,\" where its sign opposite in the night sky is Virgo, or, the Virgin Mary. When Jesus was asked by his disciples where the next Passover would be, he replied to them:\n\nAquarius also has a double rulership: Saturn is the traditional ruler and Uranus is the modern ruler. Saturn presides over structure and form and the status quo. Because Saturn tends to be rather rigid it is often associated with the rigidity of religious doctrine.\n\nSee also\n\nSymbol for Aquarius: \n\nWhen the March equinox occurs in Aquarius;\n\nIn 1928, at the Conference of the International Astronomical Union (IAU) in Leiden, the Netherlands, the edges of the 88 official constellations became defined in astronomical terms. The edge established between Pisces and Aquarius locates the beginning of the Aquarian Age around the year 2600.\n\nThe Austrian astronomer, Professor Hermann Haupt, examined the question of when the Age of Aquarius begins in an article published in 1992 by the Austrian Academy of Science: with the German title (\"The Start of the Aquarian Age, an Astronomical Question?\"). Based on the boundaries accepted by IAU in 1928, Haupt's article investigates the start of the Age of Aquarius by calculating the entry of the spring equinox point over the parallel cycle (d = - 4°) between the constellations Pisces and Aquarius and reaches, using the usual formula of precession (Gliese, 1982), the year 2595. However Haupt concludes:\n\n\n\"The Age of Freedom, Technology (especially space travel and electricity), and the Water Bearer\"\nThere is an expectation that the Aquarian Age will usher in a period of group consciousness. Marcia Moore and Mark Douglas claim that the lighting up of the earth artificially by electricity is a sign of the Age of Aquarius. The Age of Aquarius advances a purification of our inner spirit selves, effecting our outer physical selves, while also mirroring these purifying changes into the living planetary system and the noosphere as part of a cleaning up or cleansing of self and planet. \n\nThe water-bearer may symbolize widespread transparent, peaceful, neighborly, and sustainable living. Furthermore, they see the appearance of dictators, self-expression, and the rising influence of the entertainment industry are linked to the Aquarian Age by its opposite sign Leo.\n\nIn popular culture, the expression \"Age of Aquarius\" usually refers to the heyday of the hippie and New Age movements of the 1960s and 1970s. The 1967 successful musical \"Hair\", with its opening song \"Aquarius\" and the memorable line \"This is the dawning of the age of Aquarius\", brought the Aquarian Age concept to the attention of a huge worldwide audience.\nThis New Age phenomenon is seen by some astrologers to be marked by the conjunction of the planet Uranus, ruler of the sign Aquarius, and the coming age, with Pluto, ruler of the masses, bringing radical change, in the 1960s. However, as the song relates, it is only considered by astrologers as the \"dawning\" or \"cusp\" of the Age, with the full strength of the Age not occurring until some time in the future.\n\nSee also\n\nThe Age of Capricorn will follow the Age of Aquarius approximately 2150 years after the beginning of the Age of Aquarius, but the actual date for the start of the Age of Capricorn depends upon which system is used to calculate the length of an age and which system is applied to mark the start of the Age of Aquarius. There is no consensus on these matters but in broad terms, the Age of Capricorn can be expected to arrive somewhere from around the year 3500 to 4600 CE.\n\nMany research astrologers believe that the astrological ages can be divided into smaller sections along the lines of 'wheels within wheels'. The most common method is to divide each astrological ages into twelve sub-periods. There are two common ways of undertaking this process and two ways of applying these sub-periods. Furthermore, some astrologers divide the ages in different ways. For example, Lcdr David Williams employs a decanate sub-division whereby each age is divided into three equal sections. Robert Hand developed another approach entirely whereby the conjunction of the moving vernal point with specific stars within the zodiacal constellations provides an extra flavour to the corresponding historical events based on the nature of the star involved.\n\nHowever Robert Hand believes that the moving Capricorn solstice point (around 20 December) near the modern New Year provides greater correlation to historical events compared to the vernal equinox. Patrizia Norelli-Bachelet used a variety of sub-periods including decans, but Patrizia advocated that the ninefold division of each sign was the most powerful and influential sub-division. The ninefold division (termed 'navamsa') of the zodiacal signs is also the most popular sign sub-division system employed by Vedic astrologers. Vedic astrologers also apply their nakshatra star asterisms in place of the twelve zodiacal constellations. There are 27 nakshatras of 13 degrees 20 minutes each, thus the average length of a 'nakshatra' age is 960 years.\n\nThe most popular method of sub-dividing astrological ages is to divide each age equally into twelve sub-periods with the first sub-period Aries, followed by Taurus, Gemini, and so on, until the last sub-division, Pisces. Charles Carter was an early advocate of this approach. Technically this approach is based on the twelfth harmonic of the zodiacal signs.\n\nThe alternative approach is to apply a method commonly used in Vedic astrology but with long antecedents also in western astrology. This method also divides each astrological age into twelve sub-periods but the first sub-period for each sign is the same as the sign itself, then with the following sub-periods in natural order. For example, the twelve dwadasamsa of Aquarius are Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, and so on, until the last dwadasamsa – Capricorn. Technically this approach is based on attributes of both the twelfth and thirteenth harmonics of the zodiacal signs and can be considered to be halfway between the 12th and 13th harmonics.\n\nThere are two ways of applying the above sub-periods to the astrological ages.\n\n\nDue to the lack of consensus of almost all aspects of the astrological ages, except for the astrological ages relationship to precession of the equinoxes and the retrograde order of the astrological ages, there are alternative, esoteric, innovative, fringe and newly expressed ideas about the astrological ages which have not established credibility in the wider astrological community or amongst archeoastronomers.\n\nTerry MacKinnell has developed an alternative approach to calibrating precession of the equinoxes to determine the Astrological Age. His major point of departure from the traditional modern approach is how he applies the vernal equinox to the zodiacal constellations. Instead of referring to the position of the Sun at the vernal equinox (a 'modern' mathematical technique developed by the Greeks in the late 1st millennium BC), he refers to the heliacal rising constellation on the day of the vernal equinox. This approach is based on the ancient approach to astronomical observations (the same ancient period that also saw the invention of the zodiacal constellations) prior to the development of mathematical astronomy by the ancient Greeks in the 1st millennium BC. All ancient astronomical observations were based on visual techniques. \n\nOf all the key techniques used in ancient times, the most common in Babylon (most likely the source of astrology) and most other ancient cultures were based on phenomena that occurred close to the eastern or western horizons. MacKinnell claims that it is incongruent to use a 'modern' mathematical approach to the much older constellations that were first described well before these mathematical approaches were invented.\n\nThe heliacal rising constellation at the vernal equinox is based on the last zodiacal constellation rising above the Eastern Horizon just before dawn and before the light of the approaching Sun obliterates the stars on the eastern horizon. Currently at the vernal equinox the constellation of Aquarius has been the heliacal rising constellation for some centuries. The stars disappear about one hour before dawn depending upon magnitude, latitude, and date. This one hour represents approximately 15 degrees difference compared to the contemporary method based on the position of the Sun amongst the zodiacal constellations.\n\nEach age is composed of 30 degrees. Therefore, 15 degrees represents about half an age or about 1080 years. Therefore, based on the heliacal rising method, the Age of Aquarius arrived about 1,080 years earlier than the modern system. John H Rogers in part one of his paper \"Origins of the ancient constellations\" also states that using the ancient heliacal rising method compared to the (modern) solar method produces a result that is approximately 1,000 in advance.\n\nUsing MacKinnell's approach, the Astrological Ages arrive about half an age earlier compared to the common contemporary approach to calibrating precession based on 'modern' mathematical techniques. Therefore, Terry MacKinnell has the Aquarian Age arriving in the 15th century while most astrologers have the Age of Aquarius arriving in the 27th century, almost 700 years in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22805704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22805704", "title": "Boris Furlan", "text": "Boris Furlan\n\nBoris Furlan (10 November 1894 – 10 June 1957) was a Slovenian jurist, philosopher of law, translator and liberal politician. During World War II, he worked as a speaker on Radio London, and was known as \"London's Slovene voice\". He served as a Minister in the Tito–Šubašić coalition government. In 1947, he was convicted by the Yugoslav Communist authorities at the Nagode Trial.\n\nHe was born in a middle class Slovene family in Trieste, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire (today in Italy). He attended private Slovene language schools in Trieste. As a teenager, he attended an intensive English course at the local Berlitz language school, where he was a pupil of the Irish novelist James Joyce. After finishing the German language State gymnasium in Trieste in 1913, he went to study law at the University of Paris. After the break of World War I, he returned to Austria-Hungary, and enrolled in the University of Vienna. He finished his studies at the University of Bologna after the end of World War I. In 1920, he obtained a PhD from the University of Zagreb.\n\nIn 1920, Furlan returned to his home city of Trieste, which had become a part of the Kingdom of Italy. First, he worked as an assistant in the Josip Wilfan's law firm, establishing his own practice in 1925. In 1926, when Fascist Italianization was already in full advance, he managed to get a permit to publish a Slovene-language legal journal named \"Pravni vestnik\" (The Legal Herald), in which both Furlan and Wilfan published numerous text on legal philosophy and legal theory. The journal was abolished in 1928, as one of the last Slovene-language and Croat-language media prohibited by the Fascist regime. Between 1928 and 1930, Furlan worked as political advisor to Wilfan, who became one of the leaders of the Congress of European Nationalities.\n\nIn 1930, he escaped to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in order to escape Fascist persecution. In 1931, he opened a law practice in Ljubljana, and in 1936 he became a professor of sociology of law at the University of Ljubljana. \n\nIn late March 1941, when Yugoslavia signed the Tripartite Pact, Furlan was evacuated from the country with the help of the British intelligence service with which he had established a collaboration. After the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia and the Italian occupation of Slovenia, he was convicted to death \"in contumaciam\" by the Italian authorities. After a short stay in Palestine, Furlan travelled to the United States. Together with the liberal conservative Slovenian émigré politicians Izidor Cankar and Franc Snoj, Furlan propagated for the Yugoslav and Slovene cause. In 1942, he published a brochure titled \"Fighting Yugoslavia: The Struggle of the Slovenes\", in which he articulated, among other, the Slovenian claims for the annexation of his native Julian March region to Yugoslavia. \n\nIn 1943, he moved to London, where he served as Minister of Education in the exile government of Miloš Trifunović between June and August 1943. In the first years of the war, Furlan supported the Chetnik resistance movement of Draža Mihajlović, but after early 1944, he became supportive of Josip Broz Tito's Yugoslav Partisans. \n\nAfter the Yugoslav Prime Minister Ivan Šubašić recognized the partisan movement in June 1944, Furlan replaced Alojzij Kuhar as the official Slovene speaker of the Yugoslav government in exile for the Radio London. In summer 1944, he had several speeches directed to the members of the collaborationist Slovene Home Guard, urging them to join forces with the partisan forces. One of his speeches, titled \"A Clear Word from London\" was printed on leaflets which were dropped by Allied airplanes over Slovenia. In Autumn 1944, Furlan replaced Izidor Cankar as Minister for Culture and Telecommunication in the Provisional Government. In early 1945, he went to the liberated territories in southern Slovenia together with Franc Snoj. \n\nAfter the end of World War II, he became the dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. He tried to maintain a critical attitude towards the Communist regime; among other things, he secretly translated George Orwell's \"Animal Farm\".\n\nIn June 1947, he was arrested and tried at the so-called Nagode Trial, together with 31 other liberal democratic and left-wing Slovene intellectuals, such as Črtomir Nagode, Ljubo Sirc, Angela Vode and Franc Snoj. Furlan was accused of having been member of a Masonic lodge in the 1930s, of having maintained contacts with the British intelligence since the late 1930s; the main accusation regarded his translation of Orwell's \"Animal Farm\" and his friendly relations with the American Red Cross official Jack Hoptner.\n\nIn August 1947, he was sentenced to death. The sentence was later commuted to 20 years of forced labour. He was released on parole after four and a half years because of illness. \n\nIn 1952, he moved to the small Upper Carniolan town of Radovljica to escape the daily intimidations to which he was subjected in the Slovenian capital. In November 1953, he was reportedly attacked by agents of the Yugoslav secret police, in which he suffered severe injuries.\n\nHe died in Ljubljana or Radovljica at the age of 62 and was interred in the cemetery in the Vič neighborhood of Ljubljana.\n\n\nIn 1998, the Slovenian writer Drago Jančar wrote a short story about Furlan, titled \"Joyce's Pupil\". The story was translated into English by Andrew B. Wachtel in 2006.\n\nBoris Furlan was the father of the renowned physician Borut Furlan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17616212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17616212", "title": "Buddhist art in Japan", "text": "Buddhist art in Japan\n\nBuddhism played an important role in the development of Japanese art between the 6th and the 16th centuries. Buddhist art and Buddhist religious thought came to Japan from China through Korea and Buddhist art was encouraged by Crown Prince Shōtoku in the Suiko period in the sixth century and by Emperor Shōmu in the Nara period in the eighth century. In the early Heian period Buddhist art and architecture greatly influenced the traditional Shinto arts, and Buddhist painting became fashionable among wealthy Japanese. The Kamakura period saw a flowering of Japanese Buddhist sculpture, whose origins are in the works of Heian period sculptor Jōchō. \nThe Amida sect of Buddhism provided the basis for many popular artworks. Buddhist art became popular among the masses via scroll paintings, paintings used in worship and paintings of Buddhas, saint's lives, hells and other religious themes. Under the Zen sect of Buddhism, portraiture of priests such as Bodhidharma became popular as well as scroll calligraphy and sumi-e brush painting.\n\nBuddhist art was introduced to Japan along with the Buddhist religion in the mid-sixth century, when according to tradition, Seong of Baekje sent a statue of the Buddha along with some sutras to the Emperor Kinmei. The Asuka period (552–645) saw the gradual growth of Chinese and Korean artistic and religious influences on Japanese culture. Chinese influence grew in the Nara Period (645–784) as the Japanese court began to model itself in a Chinese form, and Buddhism continued to spread throughout Japan, while integrating within it the Japanese religion of Shinto. \nThe sculpture of this period shows, as do most all subsequent sculpture, the influence of continental art. Tori Busshi a descendant of a Chinese immigrant followed the style of Northern Wei sculpture and established what has come to be known as the Tori school of sculpture. Notable examples of Tori works are the Sakyamuni Triad (or Shaka triad) which are the main icons of the Golden Hall of Hōryū-ji temple and the kannon Boddhisatva of Yumedono Hall of the same temple, also known as Guze Kannon. First built in the early 7th century as the private temple of Crown Prince Shōtoku, Hōryū-ji consists of 41 independent buildings. The most important ones, the main worship hall, or \"Kondō\" (Golden Hall), and \"Gojū-no-tō\" (Five-story Pagoda), stand in the center of an open area surrounded by a roofed cloister. Inside the \"Kondō\", on a large rectangular platform, are some of the most important sculptures of the period including the Sakyamuni triad.\n\nIn the Sakyamuni Triad, Sakyamuni, the center Buddha, is attended by two other figures, Bhaisajyaguru to its right and Amitābha to its left. The statues are dated to 623. The style of the statue is characterized by the two-dimensionality of the figure and the repetitive pattern-like depictions of the cloth the triad sits upon.\n\nThe Early Nara period saw a move towards more naturalistic styles emerging from China. The Triad of Yakushi shows the healing Buddha which presides over the Eastern Pure Land attended by two Bodhisattvas Nikko and Gakko. The triad, housed in the Yakushiji temple (7th century in Nara), reveals Chinese and central Asian influences in its anatomical definition, naturalism and realistic drapery.\n\nThis sculpture also demonstrates the roots of Japanese art in the 1st-3rd century CE Greco-Buddhist art of Gandhara, characterized by flowing dress patterns and realistic rendering, on which Chinese and Korean artistic traits were superimposed. After the Chinese Northern Wei buddhist art had infiltrated a Korean peninsula, Buddhist icons was brought Japan by Korean immigrants. Particularly, the semi-seated Maitreya form was adapted into a highly developed Ancient Greek art style which was transmitted to Japan as evidenced by the Kōryū-ji Miroku Bosatsu and the Chūgū-ji Siddhartha statues. The Three Kingdoms of Korea, and particularly Baekje, were instrumental as active agents in the introduction and formation of a Buddhist tradition in Japan in 538 or 552.\nThey illustrate the terminal point of the Silk Road transmission of art during the first few centuries of our era. Other examples can be found in the development of the iconography of the Japanese Fūjin Wind God, the Niō guardians, and the near-Classical floral patterns in temple decorations.\n\nTemple building in the 8th century was focused around the Tōdai-ji in Nara. Constructed as the headquarters for a network of temples in each of the provinces, the Tōdaiji is the most ambitious religious complex erected in the early centuries of Buddhist worship in Japan. Appropriately, the 16.2 m (53 ft) Buddha (completed 752) enshrined in the main Buddha hall, or \"Daibutsuden\", is a Rushana Buddha, the figure that represents the essence of Buddhahood, just as the Tōdaiji represented the center for Imperially sponsored Buddhism and its dissemination throughout Japan. Only a few fragments of the original statue survive, and the present hall and central Buddha are reconstructions from the Edo period.\n\nUnder the Ritsuryō system of government in the Nara period, Buddhism was heavily regulated by the state through the . During this time, Tōdai-ji served as the central administrative temple for the provincial temples for the six Buddhist schools in Japan at the time.\n\nIn 784, the Emperor Kanmu threatened by the growing secular power of the Buddhist institutions in Nara moved the capital to Heian-kyō (Kyōto), which remained the imperial capital for the next 1,000 years. The term Heian period refers to the years between 794 and 1185, when the Kamakura shogunate was established at the end of the Genpei War. The period is further divided into the early Heian and the late Heian, or Fujiwara era, the pivotal date being 894, the year imperial embassies to China were officially discontinued.\n\nBuddhism began to spread throughout Japan during the Heian period, primarily through two major esoteric sects, Tendai and Shingon. Tendai originated in China and is based on the Lotus Sutra, one of the most important sutras of Mahayana Buddhism; Saichō was key to its transmission to Japan. Shingon (true word school) is an indigenous sect with close affiliations to Chinese influenced Buddhist thought founded by Kūkai (best known by his posthumous title Kōbō Daishi, 774–835) who traveled to China and studied Indian and Chinese Buddhism, as well as Chinese calligraphy and poetry. Emperor Kanmu himself was a notable patron of the Tendai sect, which rose to great power over the ensuing centuries. Kūkai greatly impressed the emperors who succeeded Emperor Kanmu, and also generations of Japanese, not only with his holiness but also with his poetry, calligraphy, painting, and sculpture. Shingon Buddhist practice is based on various rituals, including the chanting of mantras, puja, hand gestures (mudras) and meditation through visualization of mandalas. The central role of ritual in Japanese esoteric Buddhism led to a flourishing of the religious arts in the Heian period. These religious paintings, mandalas and statues provided practitioners with a way to contemplate on Buddhist deities and concepts. A famous example of Shingon Mandala is the Taizokai (Womb World) mandala. Part of the Mandala of the Two Realms, the womb world is composed of 12 zones representing different dimensions of Buddha nature. In the center sits the Vairocana Buddha within the lotus of compassion surrounded by attendant Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. The Shingon sect believed that all beings have an innate Buddha nature.\nThe temples erected for the Shingon sect such as that at Mt. Kōya were built in the Kii mountains, far away from the Court and the laity in the capital. The irregular topography of these sites forced Japanese architects to rethink the problems of temple construction, and in so doing to choose more indigenous elements of design. Cypress-bark roofs replaced those of ceramic tile, wood planks were used instead of earthen floors, and a separate worship area for the laity was added in front of the main sanctuary. The temple that best reflects the spirit of early Heian Shingon temples is the Murō-ji (early 9th century), set deep in a stand of cypress trees on a mountain southeast of Nara.\n\nIn the Fujiwara period, Pure Land Buddhism, which offered easy salvation through belief in Amida (the Buddha of the Western Paradise), became popular. This period is named after the Fujiwara clan, then the most powerful in the country, who ruled as regents for the Emperor, becoming, in effect, civil dictators. Concurrently, the Kyoto nobility developed a society devoted to elegant aesthetic pursuits. \nThe \"Hō-ō-dō\" (Phoenix Hall, completed 1053) of the Byōdō-in, a temple in Uji to the southeast of Kyoto, is the exemplar of Fujiwara Amida halls. It consists of a main rectangular structure flanked by two L-shaped wing corridors and a tail corridor, set at the edge of a large artificial pond. Inside, a single golden image of Amida (c. 1053) is installed on a high platform. The Amida sculpture was executed by Jōchō, who popularized the Chinese technique of creating a work from several smaller pieces of sculpted wood (\"yosegi\"). Although it limited the amount of surface detail the artist could carve into each piece, the method forced the sculptor to convey his intended message within these limits. This resulted in more refined and ephemeral-looking pieces. More importantly, it allowed several assistants to work on the sculpture at once, greatly speeding the process. Jōchō, as the master, did the finishing work. The technique also led to systematized proportions of body parts and simple surface details, as these sped the creation of the constituent parts and the formation of the finished piece.\n\nArt historians often cite this new canon of proportions as evidence of Jōchō's genius. He based the measurements on a unit equal to the distance between the sculpted figure's chin and hairline. The distance between each knee is equal to the distance from the bottoms of the legs to the hair. The widely spaced and level knees thus form the base of a triangular design, conveying a feeling of stability and peace. The effect is further accentuated by the contrast of other elements in the design, particularly the figures' halos. These are intricately detailed, featuring dancing tennin, clouds, and flames. Jōchō's sculptures' expressions convey compassion and elegance, and the detailed and precise carving of the facial features projects a certain kindness.\n\nThe workshop method of dividing work among several craftsmen caught on, as did Jōchō's style. His school was imitated by sculptors across Japan for the over next 150 years, as Japanese sculpture devolved into a conformist orthodoxy before being reinvented in the Kamakura period.\n\nWith the rising importance of Pure Land sects of Japanese Buddhism in the tenth century, new image-types were developed to satisfy the devotional needs of these sects. These include Raigozu (来迎図), which depict Amida Buddha along with attendant Bodhisattvas Kannon and Seishi arriving to welcome the souls of the faithful departed to Amida's Western Paradise. A noted early example dating from 1053 are painted on the interior of the Phoenix Hall of the Byōdō-in, a temple in Uji, Kyoto. This is also considered an early example of so-called Yamato-e (大和絵), or \"Japanese-style painting\", insofar as it includes landscape elements such as soft rolling hills that seem to reflect something of the actual appearance of the landscape of western Japan. Stylistically, however, this type of painting continues to be informed by Tang Dynasty Chinese \"blue and green style\" landscape painting traditions. \"Yamato-e\" is an imprecise term that continues to be debated among historians of Japanese art.\n\nJapan suffered a series of civil wars in the late 12th century between several rival families, which eventually led to the rise of the feudalistic Kamakura shogunate, so named because the victorious family, the Minamoto clan, established their political base in Kamakura. The Emperor remained in Kyoto as a figurehead but the actual political power rested with the \"shōgun\". The Kamakura period saw the reestablishment of cultural ties with China, as well as the growth of Zen Buddhism and Pure Land Buddhism as the two major branches of Japanese Buddhism.\n\nThese new Kamakura patrons also favored a more realistic and naturalistic art which is exemplified by the sculpture of the Kei school. The Kei school developed out of that led by the \"busshi\" (Buddhist sculptor) Jōchō, his successor Kakujō, and Kakujō's son Raijō, the leading sculptors of the preceding generations. These artists are sometimes said to have founded the Kei school; however, the school would not come into its own, and become associated with the name \"Kei\" until Raijō was succeeded by Kōkei and Unkei around the year 1200.\n\nAmong sculptors of the Kei school, Unkei is the most famous and considered to be the most accomplished sculptor of the period. Among his works, a pair of large Nio (or Kongō Rikishi) in Tōdai-ji depict muscular guardians in a dramatic contrapposto stance. Unkei's sculptures of Indian priests Mujaku and Seshin in Kōfuku-ji demonstrate a new portrait-like realism. Both statues sport priestly vestments that frame their bodies realistically. They stand life-size and alone and are fully sculpted in the round as if intended to be viewed from any angle. Mujaku is depicted as a thin man manipulating some sort of holy, cloth-wrapped object. He appears reserved and reflective. Seshin, in contrast, is depicted in mid conversation, gesturing and speaking, an extroverted counterweight to the solemn Mujaku. The men are shown as specific people, not simply members of a stock type.\n\nUnkei had six sculptor sons and their work is also imbued with the new humanism. Tankei, the eldest son and a brilliant sculptor became the head of the studio. Kōshō, the 4th son produced a remarkable sculpture of the 10th-century Japanese Buddhist teacher Kuya (903–972). Kaikei was a collaborator of Unkei and worked with him on the Nio statues in 1203. He worked with priest Chogen (1121–1206): the director of Tōdai-ji reconstruction project. Many of his figures are more idealized than Unkei and his sons, and are characterized by a beautifully finished surface, richly decorated with pigments and gold. His works have survived more than 40, many of which are signed by himself.\n\nMuch of the cities of Nara and Kyoto were destroyed in the Genpei War of 1180–1185. The Kei school was granted the opportunity to restore Nara's greatest temples, the Tōdai-ji and Kōfuku-ji, replacing their Buddhist sculptures. The leading figure in this effort was Shunjobo Chogen (1121–1206), who was known to have made three trips to China to study sculpture. The Tōdai-ji restoration project lasted several generations, from roughly 1180 to 1212, and drew extensively on Tang and Song Chinese styles, introducing new stylistic elements while remaining true to tradition.\n\nSome of the most popular paintings of the Kamakura period depict an ascending Amida Buddha. The main tenet of Pure Land Buddhism is that chanting the name of Amida could lead to a reincarnation in the pure land. Thus, scrolls of Amida would be hung in the room of the dying who would be saved by chanting the Amida mantra.\n\nIn the Kamakura period new Buddhists sects, such as Kegon and Nichiren emerged and grew in popularity. These sects produced several distinct genres of painting, including the Suijako paintings, which tried to reconcile the two main Japanese faiths by depicting Shinto deities as early manifestations of Buddha. Works like the Kegon Engi Emaki, a book illustrated to help people understand complicated Chinese character, became more popular with ordinary people. Emakimono, or long illustrated hand scrolls, also served to illustrate the life of the Buddha and the history of key Buddhist leaders.\n\nDuring the Muromachi period, also called the Ashikaga period, a profound change took place in Japanese culture. The Ashikaga clan took control of the shogunate and moved its headquarters back to Kyoto, to the Muromachi district of the city. With the return of government to the capital, the popularizing trends of the Kamakura period came to an end, and cultural expression took on a more aristocratic, elitist character. During the Muromachi Period, Zen Buddhism rose to prominence especially among the elite Samurai class, who embraced the Zen values of personal discipline, concentration and self-development. \nThe development of the great Zen monasteries in Kamakura and Kyoto had a major impact on the visual arts. Because of secular ventures and trading missions to China organized by Zen temples, many Chinese paintings and objects of art were imported into Japan and profoundly influenced Japanese artists working for Zen temples and the shogunate. Not only did these imports change the subject matter of painting, but they also modified the use of color; the bright colors of Yamato-e yielded to the monochromes of painting in the Chinese manner of Sui-boku-ga (水墨画) or sumi-e (墨絵), this style mainly used only black ink — the same as used in East Asian calligraphy.\n\nThe foremost painter of the new Sumi-e style was Sesshū Tōyō (1420–1506), a Rinzai priest who traveled to China in 1468–69 and studied contemporary Ming painting. Some of his most dramatic works are in the Chinese splashed-ink (Haboku) style. Upon returning to Japan, Sesshū built himself a studio and established a large following, painters that are now referred to as the Unkoku-rin school or \"School of Sesshū\". To make one of the calligraphic and highly stylized Haboku paintings, the painter would visualize the image and then made swift broad strokes into the paper resulting in a splashed and abstract composition, all done with meditative concentration. This impressionistic style of painting was supposed to capture the true nature of the subject. The Sumi-e style was highly influenced by calligraphy, using the same tools and style as well as its zen philosophy. To paint in this style the practitioner had to clear his mind and apply the brush strokes without too much thinking, termed by the Japanese philosopher Nishida Kitaro. The concept of mushin is central to many Japanese arts including the art of the sword, archery and the tea ceremony.\n\nBy the end of the 14th century, monochrome landscape paintings (sansuiga) had found patronage by the ruling Ashikaga family and was the preferred genre among Zen painters, gradually evolving from its Chinese roots to a more Japanese style. Another important painter in this period is Tenshō Shūbun, a monk at the Kyoto temple of Shōkoku-ji who traveled to Korea and studied under Chinese painters. He returned to Japan in 1404 and settled in Kyoto, then the capital city. He became director of the court painting bureau, established by Ashikaga shoguns, who were influential art patrons. Shūbun's most well-known landscape painting, designated as a National Treasure in Japan, is Reading in a Bamboo Grove, now kept in the Tokyo National Museum.\n\nAnother style which developed in the Muromachi period is Shigajiku (詩画軸). This is usually a painting accompanied by poetry and has its roots in China, where painting and poetry were seen as inherently connected. This style grew out of literary circles, an artist would usually be given a subject to paint and the poets would write accompanying verses to be written above the work. A famous example is the scroll \"Catching a Catfish with a Gourd\" (Hyōnen-zu 瓢鮎図) located at Taizō-in, Myōshin-ji, Kyoto. Created by the priest-painter Josetsu ( – ), it includes 31 verses of many Zen priests inscribed above the painting. \n\n<poem>:::Poised! With the Gourd\n\nThe painting and accompanying poems capture both the playfulness and the perplexing nature of Zen buddhist \"kōans\" which was supposed to aid the Zen practitioner in his meditation and was a central practice of the Rinzai school.\n\nIn the late Muromachi period, ink painting had migrated out of the Zen monasteries into the art world in general, as artists from the Kano school and the Ami school adopted the style and themes, but introducing a more plastic and decorative effect that would continue into modern times.\n\nThis period saw the rise of the Kanō school (狩野派 Kanō-ha?) which is one of the most famous schools of Japanese painting. The Kanō school of painting was the dominant style of painting until the Meiji period. It was founded by Kanō Masanobu (1434–1530), a contemporary of Sesshū and student of Shūbun who became an official painter in the Shogun's court. The artists who followed him including his son improved upon his style and methods. His son, Kanō Motonobu (1476–1559) established the Kano style as the main Japanese painting school during the Muromachi period.\n\nIn sharp contrast to the previous Muromachi period, the Azuchi Momoyama period was characterized by a grandiose polychrome style, with extensive use of gold and silver foil, and by works on a very large scale. Kanō school painters were patronized by Oda Nobunaga, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, Tokugawa Ieyasu, and their followers. Kanō Eitoku developed a formula for the creation of monumental landscapes on the sliding doors enclosing a room. These huge screens and wall paintings were commissioned to decorate the castles and palaces of the military nobility. This status continued into the subsequent Edo period, as the Tokugawa bakufu continued to promote the works of the Kanō school as the officially sanctioned art for the \"shōgun\", \"daimyōs\", and Imperial court. The rise of the Kanō school saw a beginning of a move away from buddhist themes, as Kano school patrons commissioned paintings of a more secular nature to decorate their palaces.\n\nHowever some painters in this period continued to look back to the Buddhist priest-painters which had initially influenced the Kano school. One of these painters was Hasegawa Tōhaku, who was influenced by the monochrome ink paintings of the Muromachi painter Sesshū and developed his own style of Sumi-e which looked back to the minimalism of its predecessors. Tōhaku was in fact so much enamored with the techniques of Sesshū Tōyō that he attempted to claim rights as his fifth successor, though he lost in a court battle to Unkoku Togan. Still, the influence of Sesshū is evident in many of Tōhaku's mid to late works, such as his famous , which were declared a national treasure of Japan are argued to be the first paintings of their scale to depict only pine trees as subject matter.\n\nThe school founded by Hasegawa Tōhaku is known today as the Hasegawa school. This school was small, consisting mostly of Tōhaku and his sons. However small, its members conserved Tōhaku's quiet and reserved aesthetic, which many attribute to the influence of Sesshū as well as his contemporary and friend, Sen no Rikyū. It is suspected that these simple aesthetics protest the usage of intimidation and wealth rampant in the Kanō school.\n\nUnder the Zen sect of Buddhism, which became very popular in Japan in the 14th and 15th centuries, portraits of Zen priests were often produced. Zen was a sect of Buddhism which promoted simplicity and less involved in worship, so religious paintings were not needed for this reason. Instead, Zen priests often painted images of teachers and Zen masters. Unlike in the earlier Heian period, where it had been considered \"rude in Heian times to copy a person's likeness\" (Stanley-Baker 2000, 115), the Zen portraits were close-up portraits showing facial features and details. A portrait of Zen master Muso Kokushi painted by his student Muto Shui, shows a detailed portrait of the face, with the whole picture being only a head and shoulders portrait. This is unlike earlier Japanese painting which would depict people as much smaller figures. Zen priests also painted landscapes, such as the suiboku-ga, or water and black ink painting, which was inspired by Zen doctrine.\n\nBuddhism exerted tremendous influence on Japanese art in a variety of ways and through many periods of Japanese history. Buddhist temples with their halls and five-story towers were built all over Japan, and huge sculptures of Buddha were made for these temples.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2354482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2354482", "title": "C-value", "text": "C-value\n\nC-value is the amount, in picograms, of DNA contained within a haploid nucleus (e.g. a gamete) or one half the amount in a diploid somatic cell of a eukaryotic organism. In some cases (notably among diploid organisms), the terms C-value and genome size are used interchangeably; however, in polyploids the C-value may represent two or more genomes contained within the same nucleus. Greilhuber \"et al.\" have suggested some new layers of terminology and associated abbreviations to clarify this issue, but these somewhat complex additions are yet to be used by other authors.\n\nMany authors have incorrectly assumed that the 'C' in \"C-value\" refers to \"characteristic\", \"content\", or \"complement\". Even among authors who have attempted to trace the origin of the term, there had been some confusion because Hewson Swift did not define it explicitly when he coined it in 1950. In his original paper, Swift appeared to use the designation \"1C value\", \"2C value\", etc., in reference to \"classes\" of DNA content (e.g., Gregory 2001, 2002); however, Swift explained in personal correspondence to Prof. Michael D. Bennett in 1975 that \"I am afraid the letter C stood for nothing more glamorous than 'constant', i.e., the amount of DNA that was characteristic of a particular genotype\" (quoted in Bennett and Leitch 2005). This is in reference to the report in 1948 by Vendrely and Vendrely of a \"remarkable constancy in the nuclear DNA content of all the cells in all the individuals within a given animal species\" (translated from the original French). Swift's study of this topic related specifically to variation (or lack thereof) among chromosome sets in different cell types within individuals, but his notation evolved into \"C-value\" in reference to the haploid DNA content of individual species and retains this usage today.\n\nC-values vary enormously among species. In animals they range more than 3,300-fold, and in land plants they differ by a factor of about 1,000. Protist genomes have been reported to vary more than 300,000-fold in size, but the high end of this range (\"Amoeba\") has been called into question. Variation in C-values bears no relationship to the complexity of the organism or the number of genes contained in its genome; for example, some single-celled protists have genomes much larger than that of humans. This observation was deemed counterintuitive before the discovery of non-coding DNA. It became known as the C-value paradox as a result. However, although there is no longer any paradoxical aspect to the discrepancy between C-value and gene number, this term remains in common usage. For reasons of conceptual clarification, the various puzzles that remain with regard to genome size variation instead have been suggested to more accurately comprise a complex but clearly defined puzzle known as the C-value enigma. C-values correlate with a range of features at the cell and organism levels, including cell size, cell division rate, and, depending on the taxon, body size, metabolic rate, developmental rate, organ complexity, geographical distribution, or extinction risk (for recent reviews, see Bennett and Leitch 2005; Gregory 2005).\n\nThe C-value enigma or C-value paradox is the complex puzzle surrounding the extensive variation in nuclear genome size among eukaryotic species. At the center of the C-value enigma is the observation that genome size does not correlate with organismal complexity; for example, some single-celled protists have genomes much larger than that of humans.\n\nSome prefer the term C-value enigma because it explicitly includes all of the questions that will need to be answered if a complete understanding of genome size evolution is to be achieved (Gregory 2005). Moreover, the term paradox implies a lack of understanding of one of the most basic features of eukaryotic genomes: namely that they are composed primarily of non-coding DNA. Some have claimed that the term paradox also has the unfortunate tendency to lead authors to seek simple one-dimensional solutions to what is, in actuality, a multi-faceted puzzle. For these reasons, in 2003 the term \"C-value enigma\" was endorsed in preference to \"C-value paradox\" at the Second Plant Genome Size Discussion Meeting and Workshop at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, UK,\nand an increasing number of authors have begun adopting this term.\n\nIn 1948, Roger and Colette Vendrely reported a \"remarkable constancy in the nuclear DNA content of all the cells in all the individuals within a given animal species\", which they took as evidence that DNA, rather than protein, was the substance of which genes are composed. The term C-value reflects this observed constancy. However, it was soon found that C-values (genome sizes) vary enormously among species and that this bears no relationship to the \"presumed\" number of genes (\"as reflected by\" the complexity of the organism). For example, the cells of some salamanders may contain 40 times more DNA than those of humans. Given that C-values were assumed to be constant because genetic information is encoded by DNA, and yet bore no relationship to presumed gene number, this was understandably considered paradoxical; the term \"C-value paradox\" was used to describe this situation by C.A. Thomas, Jr. in 1971.\n\nThe discovery of non-coding DNA in the early 1970s resolved the main question of the C-value paradox: genome size does not reflect gene number in eukaryotes since most of their DNA is non-coding and therefore does not consist of genes. The human genome, for example, comprises less than 2% protein-coding regions, with the remainder being various types of non-coding DNA (especially transposable elements).\n\nThe term \"C-value enigma\" represents an update of the more common but outdated term \"C-value paradox\" (Thomas 1971), being ultimately derived from the term \"C-value\" (Swift 1950) in reference to haploid nuclear DNA contents. The term was coined by Canadian biologist Dr. T. Ryan Gregory of the University of Guelph in 2000/2001. In general terms, the C-value enigma relates to the issue of variation in the amount of non-coding DNA found within the genomes of different eukaryotes.\n\nThe C-value enigma, unlike the older C-value paradox, is explicitly defined as a series of independent but equally important component questions, including:\n\n\nThe formulas for converting the number of nucleotide pairs (or base pairs) to picograms of DNA and vice versa are:\n\nBy using the data in Table 1, relative masses of nucleotide pairs can be calculated as follows: A/T = 615.383 and G/C = 616.3711, bearing in mind that formation of one phosphodiester linkage involves a loss of one HO molecule. Further, phosphates of nucleotides in the DNA chain are acidic, so at physiologic pH the H ion is dissociated. Provided the ratio of A/T to G/C pairs is 1:1 (the GC-content is 50%), the mean relative mass of one nucleotide pair is 615.8771.\n\nThe relative molecular mass may be converted to an absolute value by multiplying it by the atomic mass unit (1 u) in picograms. Thus, 615.8771 is multiplied by 1.660539 × 10 pg. Consequently, the mean mass per nucleotide pair would be 1.023 × 10 pg, and 1 pg of DNA would represent 0.978 × 10 base pairs (978 Mbp).\n\nNo species has a GC-content of exactly 50% (equal amounts of A/T and G/C nucleotide bases) as assumed by Doležel \"et al.\" However, as a G/C pair is only heavier than an A/T pair by about 1/6 of 1%, the effect of variations in GC content is small. The actual GC content varies between species, between chromosomes, and between isochores (sections of a chromosome with like GC content). Adjusting Doležel's calculation for GC content, the theoretical variation in base pairs per picogram ranges from 977.0317 Mbp/pg for 100% GC content to 978.6005 Mbp/pg for 0% GC content (A/T being lighter, has more Mbp/pg), with a midpoint of 977.8155 Mbp/pg for 50% GC content.\n\nThe Human genome varies in size; however, the current estimate of the nuclear haploid size of the reference human genome is 3,031,042,417 bp for the X gamete and 2,932,228,937 bp for the Y gamete. The X gamete and Y gamete both contain 22 autosomes whose combined lengths comprise the majority of the genome in both gametes. The X gamete contains an X chromosome, while the Y gamete contains a Y chromosome. The larger size of the X chromosome is responsible for the difference in the size of the two gametes. When the gametes are combined, the XX female zygote has a size of 6,062,084,834 bp while the XY male zygote has a size 5,963,271,354 bp. However, the base pairs of the XX female zygote are distributed among 2 homologous groups of 23 heterologous chromosomes each, while the base pairs of the XY male zygote are distributed among 2 homologous groups of 22 heterologous chromosomes each plus 2 heterologous chromosomes. Although each zygote has 46 chromosomes, 23 chromosomes of the XX female zygote are heterologous while 24 chromosomes of the XY male zygote are heterologous. As a result, the C-value for the XX female zygote is 3.099361 while the C-value for the XY male zygote is 3.157877.\n\nThe human genome's GC content is about 41%. Accounting for the autosomal, X, and Y chromosomes, human haploid GC contents are 40.97460% for X gametes, and 41.01724% for Y gametes.\n\nSummarizing these numbers:\n<div>\n\n"}
{"id": "3942005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3942005", "title": "Caring in intimate relationships", "text": "Caring in intimate relationships\n\nCaring in intimate relationships is the practice of providing care and support to an intimate relationship partner. Caregiving behaviours are aimed at reducing the partner's distress and supporting his or her coping efforts in situations of either threat or challenge. Caregiving may include emotional support (expressions of care, affection, sympathy, and encouragement) and/or instrumental support (provision of information, advice, and tangible resources). Effective caregiving behaviour enhances the care-recipient's psychological well-being, as well as the quality of the relationship between the caregiver and the care-recipient. However, certain suboptimal caregiving strategies may be either ineffective or even detrimental to coping.\n\nAttachment theory, an influential theoretical framework for the study of intimate relationships and personality development, argues that all humans are born with the capacity and motivation to engage in caregiving behaviours aimed at providing protection and support to close others. These behaviours are organized by an innate behavioural system, called the \"caregiving system\", which is believed to have emerged over the course of primate evolution to ensure the survival of vulnerable offspring. That is, because infants in many primate species, including humans, are highly altricial (\"i.e.\", developmentally immature and helpless at birth), they cannot survive without caregiver support and protection. Attachment theory proposes that this evolutionary pressure favoured the emergence of the caregiving behavioural system, which functions to safeguard the vulnerable dependent from harm by providing him or her with protection, comfort, and help during times of threat or need. Although this system was first conceptualized in child–parent bonds, its operation has since been established in adult intimate relationships, where both partners may occasionally take on the role of caregiver.\n\nAccording to attachment theory, the two goals of the caregiving behavioural system are to protect close others from harm and decrease their suffering during times of threat, and to promote close others’ personal growth and exploratory behaviour. Attachment theorists call the former aspect of caregiving behaviour “providing a safe haven”, and the latter “providing a secure base”. The caregiving system is therefore likely to be activated when an individual perceives that a close relationship partner is experiencing danger or distress, or when the partner has an opportunity for exploration, learning, or mastery of a new skill, and could benefit from help in pursuing the opportunity or from celebration of his/her accomplishments and goal strivings.\n\nAttachment theory also postulates that all humans possess an innate attachment behavioural system that motivates them to seek proximity to a caregiver (also called an attachment figure) during times of threat or need. Caregiving behaviour is therefore complimentary to attachment behaviour. Furthermore, attachment theory argues that the effectiveness of the caregiving behaviour enacted determines the quality of the attachment bond between the caregiver and care-recipient, as well as shapes the care-recipient’s general expectations of social support. In this model, a history of receiving effective care from intimate others (whether parents in childhood or romantic partners in adulthood) promotes a sense of attachment security – an interpersonal orientation characterized by the expectation that other people may be relied on for support, and subsequent comfort with intimacy and emotional closeness. In contrast, a history of interactions with cold or rejecting caregivers promotes attachment avoidance – an interpersonal orientation marked by discomfort with intimacy, a reluctance to rely on others for support, and the tendency to suppress emotional distress. Care that is inconsistent or intrusive is believed to foster attachment anxiety, which is characterized by excessive preoccupation with intimate relationships and inability to effectively regulate one’s own emotional distress.\n\nThe central component of effective caregiving is the taking on of what Batson (1991) called an \"empathic stance\" toward another person's suffering or needs. This means adopting the perspective, or \"putting oneself in the shoes\", of the partner in order to help lessen his or her distress in a stressful situation, or to help him or her pursue personal growth and development goals in challenging contexts. The empathic stance is characterized by two key, related components: \"sensitivity\" and \"responsiveness\" (although note that these terms are sometimes used interchangeably in the caregiving and social support literatures). Sensitivity refers to the ability to effectively detect and interpret the partner's cues of distress, worry, or need, and to provide the type and amount of support that is well matched to the partner's wants and needs. This tailoring of caregiving efforts to the particular characteristics of the specific situation is essential for effective care. Responsiveness is the ability to provide support in a way that makes the partner feel understood (i.e., the caregiver has accurately captured the speaker's problem, needs, and emotions), validated (i.e., the caregiver confirms that the care recipient is a valued individual and that his or her feelings and responses in the situation are reasonable), and cared for (i.e., caregiver should communicate affection and concern). Caregiving that lacks these two components may be ineffective or even detrimental to the care-recipient's well-being. For example, a study investigating the adjustment of breast cancer patients found that these women varied in the types of the support they desired, and mismatches between the type of support wanted and the type of support received (i.e., low sensitivity to the partner’s unique support needs) predicted worse adjustment. Unhelpful attempts at social support include: \"minimization\" (e.g., downplaying or denying the problem), \"maximization\" (e.g., catastrophizing, making the problem seem unwieldy or unresolvable), blaming or criticizing the partner for their misfortune, inducing feelings of guilt or indebtedness, and overinvolvement (e.g., being overly protective, making the care-recipient feel incompetent, inserting oneself into the problem when the partner wishes to solve it independently).\n\nEven well-intentioned support can negatively impact the care recipient's psychological adjustment to stressful events if it is inappropriate or excessive, or inadvertently highlights the fact that the care recipient does not have sufficient skills or resources to handle the stressor by him- or herself. Consequently, Niall Bolger and colleagues have put forward the idea that support is most effective when it is \"invisible\", or operates outside of the care-recipient's direct awareness. To investigate this proposition, the researchers recruited couples in which one member was a law student preparing to undergo a highly stressful event, the New York State Bar Examination, and had both members of the couple complete daily diary entries about given and received emotional support. They found that the law students exhibited \"heightened\" levels of depression on days they reported receiving support, but \"lowered\" levels of depression on the days when their partners reported providing more support than the law students reported receiving. That is, participants in this study gained most psychological benefits from support they were not explicitly aware of having received. However, other researchers have argued that the \"responsiveness\" of enacted support is a more important factor than the visibility of the support. One study examining the effects of visible and invisible support on emotional and relationship well-being showed that visible support was linked to neutral or positive outcomes when it was high in responsiveness, and invisible support was linked to negative outcomes when it was low in responsiveness. That is, visible support is not always negative and invisible support is not always positive, but the effectiveness of both types of support hinges on responsiveness.\n\nIn addition to giving support and reassurance during distress, another important function of caregiving within intimate relationships is the provision of support for a relationship partner's personal growth, exploration, and goal strivings. In attachment theory, this type of support is called \"providing a secure base\" and is postulated to encourage the relationship partner's confident, autonomous exploration of the environment outside of the attachment relationship. This phenomenon was originally observed in young children; children whose parents showed more intrusiveness were less likely to engage in play and exploration in a novel environment.\n\nFeeney and Thrush (2010) have identified three main functional components of secure base caregiving. First, individuals can support their relationship partner's exploratory, autonomous behaviour by \"being available in case support is needed\". This can include actions such as removing obstacles to the partner's goal pursuit (for example, taking over some household chores to free up time for the partner to engage in a new activity), being sensitive and responsive to the partner's communications of distress, and communicating readiness to help in the event that support becomes needed. Second, effective caregiving does not \"unnecessarily interfere with exploration\". That is, effective caregivers do not provide support when it is neither needed nor desired, attempt to take over or control the activity, or disrupt the partner's goal strivings. Third, partners should communicate \"encouragement and acceptance of exploration\" (i.e., convey enthusiasm about the pursuit rather than suggest that it is not worthwhile or will somehow detract from the relationship). Individuals who perceive their partners to be available to help are more persistent in the performance of challenging activities, whereas individuals whose partners show more interference during an activity show less persistence at the task, poorer performance, less enthusiasm for the challenge, greater negativity/hostility toward their partner, and decreases in self-esteem. Partners' communications of enthusiasm are related to better performance, heightened enthusiasm, better mood, increases in state self-esteem, enhanced self-perceptions, greater enjoyment, and more positive feelings toward the partner.\n\nAll humans have a fundamental, evolutionarily-rooted need to feel socially connected to other people (i.e., to achieve \"belongingness\" or \"relatedness\"). Simultaneously, people also hold a need for \"autonomy\", or the desire to maintain a sense of independence and self-sufficiency. While these two psychological needs may initially appear to be contradictory (that is, it is not readily apparent how people may reconcile their need for social connection with their need for independence), psychological research shows that individuals who are more dependent on their intimate partners for support actually experience \"more\" autonomy, rather than less (a phenomenon that has been labelled the \"dependency paradox\"). For example, Feeney (2007) showed that individuals whose romantic partners were more comfortable with having their partner depend on them were more likely to \"independently\" pursue and achieve their personal goals over a period of 6 months (without their partner's direct assistance). Such research is consistent with the idea that the most effective type of support for promoting personal growth (e.g., accepting challenges, trying new things, exploring) is support that involves simply communicating availability, and that individuals who feel confident in the availability of a \"secure base\" to fall back on in case their goal pursuits go wrong are less likely to actually over-rely on their secure base.\n\nIn psychology, \"capitalization\" refers to the process of drawing additional benefits (e.g., increases in good mood) from a positive event by sharing it with other people. Research shows that individuals who share news of a positive event (such as, for example, acceptance to graduate school or a promotion at work) with a close other and receive a supportive response from that person, show increases in positive emotions and personal well-being above and beyond the boost given by the positive event itself. Furthermore, support for positive event sharing has positive implications for relationship well-being. Specifically, receipt of such support increases feelings of trust and the endorsement of a more prosocial orientation (i.e., the willingness to respond positively in an unpleasant or conflict situation involving one's relationship partner). Additionally, support for positive event sharing is more strongly linked to higher levels of relationship quality and lower likelihood of break-ups in the future than support extended during discussion of negative events.\n\nGable and colleagues have delineated four basic types of responses individuals may exhibit when a relationship partner shares a positive event with them. \"Active-constructive\" responses clearly communicate enthusiasm for the positive event, \"passive-constructive\" responses express support in a quiet, understated way, \"active-destructive\" responses squash the event and the partner's enthusiasm (e.g., by pointing out potential down sides of the positive event), and \"passive-destructive\" responses ignore and/or communicate disinterest in the event. Only active-constructive responses are associated with emotional and relationship well-being.\n\nAlthough the tendency to care for intimate others is universal, there is wide variability in the quality and amount of caregiving that individuals enact. This variability is determined by a multitude of factors, including characteristics of the caregiver, the care recipient, and the relationship.\n\nAs effective caregiving involves a great amount of responsibility, as well as the expenditure of cognitive, emotional, and/or tangible resources, caregivers must be sufficiently \"motivated\" in order to provide responsive support to their relationship partner. That is, people who do not possess enough motivation to help will be less effective at providing care that is appropriate for their partner's needs. Furthermore, individuals may differ in the degree to which they hold \"altruistic\" versus \"egoistic\" motivations for helping. \"Altruistic\" motivations are centred on the desire to advance the significant other's welfare, whereas \"egoistic\" motivations are centred on the desire to gain benefits for oneself, or to avoid sanctions for not helping and/or other negative consequences to the self. More altruistic and less egoistic motivations for caregiving are linked to better outcomes for the care recipient and enhanced relationship quality.\n\nAnother relevant line of research inquiry has demonstrated that individuals in romantic relationships may hold either \"approach\" or \"avoidance\" motivations for making sacrifices for their partner, and the particular type of motivation endorsed influences personal well-being and relationship quality. Approach motivations are oriented toward \"gaining positive outcomes\", such as increases in intimacy or the partner's happiness. Avoidance motivations are oriented toward \"avoiding negative outcomes\", such as conflict or the partner's loss of interest in the relationship. Sacrifice for approach motives is associated with more positive emotions and greater life and relationship satisfaction for both partners, as well as less relationship conflict. In contrast, sacrifice for avoidance motives is linked to less life and relationship satisfaction for both partners, more negative emotions and conflict for the person making the sacrifice, less positive emotions for the sacrifice recipient, as well as greater likelihood of breaking up.\n\nEffective caregiving requires knowledge about how to support others, as well as sufficient cognitive and self-regulatory resources. For example, caregivers must be able to regulate the negative emotions aroused by witnessing another person in distress. Failure of this emotional regulation may lead the caregiver to become overcome by their personal distress, adopt the role of a needy person rather than the caregiver, or to distance him- or herself from the partner as a way of regulating that distress. Research shows that particularly severe or chronic stressors may overwhelm the caregiver and decrease his/her ability to provide support to the partner. For example, Bolger, Foster, Vinokur, and Ng (1996) found that breast cancer patients who experienced the \"highest\" levels of distress in the month immediately following their diagnosis were \"less\" likely to receive support from their husbands over the following six months.\n\nAnother relevant skill is called empathic accuracy, which is defined as the “ability to accurately infer the specific content of another person’s thoughts and feelings (Ickes, 1993, p. 588). For example, caregivers higher on empathic accuracy tend to provide more instrumental support and less negative support (e.g., accusing or criticizing) to their spouse.\n\nAttachment theory postulates that the quality of caregiving an individual receives shapes many of the skills and motivations necessary for that individual to enact caregiving him- or herself. Indeed, research shows that personal attachment style (i.e., level of attachment security versus attachment avoidance or anxiety) is tightly linked to beliefs about, and strategies in, providing care to dependent others. Attachment avoidance, which is characterized by discomfort with intimacy, is related to less support giving and with keeping distance from a partner in need, particularly when the partner is experiencing higher levels of distress. When avoidant individuals do provide support, they tend to be more controlling. Attachment anxiety is related to controlling, overinvolved, intrusive, and compulsive caregiving (e.g., preoccupation with the fear that the partner will leave them if they do not provide adequate care). For example, anxiously attached individuals provide higher levels of support to partners who are about to engage in a stressful laboratory task, and this support is not matched to the level of need expressed by their partner. Anxiously attached individuals also display more negative support behaviours, such as blaming. Secure attachment is associated with more effective forms of caregiving (i.e., care that is responsive and not overinvolved).\n\nBecause careseeking and caregiving are highly interdependent, complimentary processes, individuals are more likely to receive caregiving efforts from their partner when they experience and express higher levels of distress or need. More generally, psychology research on helping suggests that one of the strongest determinants of helping behaviour is the structure of the situation – more specifically, the degree to which potential helpers are able to notice that the need for help exists. In the context of romantic relationships, researchers have similarly argued that in order to enact caregiving, individuals must first realize that their partner requires care. Therefore, one potential obstacle to caregiving behaviour is that the person in need of help may not actively seek support from the caregiver, or may communicate their need for support through indirect strategies (e.g., hinting, sulking, sighing) that are overly ambiguous. However, while greater communications of need can effectively elicit support, behaviours such as excessive reassurance seeking (a behavioural pattern in which individuals continue to seek support and reassurance even after such reassurance has already been provided) can strain the relationship and undermine helping.\n\nResearchers have argued that individuals in high quality relationships, in which partners feel attached and committed to each other, should evidence more motivation to provide responsive support to their partner. Indeed, one’s own sense of relationship satisfaction and relationship interdependence (the degree to which the caregiver feels close and committed to the partner) are positively related to the amount of support one provides. For example, daily diary studies of caregiving have observed that individuals tend to provide more support to their partners on days they feel more satisfied with their relationships (however, a reverse interpretation – that caregiving increases relationship satisfaction – is also possible). In addition, caregivers who are more satisfied with their relationships report more altruistic motives for providing support.\n\nReceipt of social support, or the perception that social support will be readily available when needed, is linked to a multitude of benefits, including improvements in mood and self-esteem. Provision of effective care can also benefit the caregiver because it is likely to foster feelings of self-worth and efficacy, build confidence in one's interpersonal skills, promote the self-view that one is a moral person, and increase feelings of love and social connectedness. Research has also linked the provision of social support within intimate relationships to enhanced relationship satisfaction for the care recipient and caregiver. For example, higher levels of support in newlywed couples predicted higher relationship satisfaction two years later. Responsive care is especially important for relationship satisfaction.\n"}
{"id": "6682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6682", "title": "Clade", "text": "Clade\n\nA clade (from , \"klados\", \"branch\"), also known as monophyletic group, is a group of organisms that consists of a common ancestor and all its lineal descendants, and represents a single \"branch\" on the \"tree of life\".\n\nThe common ancestor may be an individual, a population, a species (extinct or extant), and so on right up to a kingdom and further. Clades are nested, one in another, as each branch in turn splits into smaller branches. These splits reflect evolutionary history as populations diverged and evolved independently. Clades are termed monophyletic (Greek: \"one clan\") groups.\n\nOver the last few decades, the cladistic approach has revolutionized biological classification and revealed surprising evolutionary relationships among organisms. Increasingly, taxonomists try to avoid naming taxa that are not clades; that is, taxa that are not monophyletic. Some of the relationships between organisms that the molecular biology arm of cladistics has revealed are that fungi are closer relatives to animals than they are to plants, archaea are now considered different from bacteria, and multicellular organisms may have evolved from archaea.\n\nThe term \"clade\" was coined in 1957 by the biologist Julian Huxley to refer to the result of cladogenesis, a concept Huxley borrowed from Bernhard Rensch.\n\nMany commonly named groups, rodents and insects for example, are clades because, in each case, the group consists of a common ancestor with all its descendant branches. Rodents, for example, are a branch of mammals that split off after the end of the period when the clade Dinosauria stopped being the dominant terrestrial vertebrates 66 million years ago. The original population and all its descendants are a clade. The rodent clade corresponds to the order Rodentia, and insects to the class Insecta. These clades include smaller clades, such as chipmunk or ant, each of which consists of even smaller clades. The clade \"rodent\" is in turn included in the mammal, vertebrate and animal clades.\n\nThe idea of a clade did not exist in pre-Darwinian Linnaean taxonomy, which was based by necessity only on internal or external morphological similarities between organisms – although as it happens, many of the better known animal groups in Linnaeus' original Systema Naturae (notably among the vertebrate groups) do represent clades. The phenomenon of convergent evolution is, however, responsible for many cases where there are misleading similarities in the morphology of groups that evolved from different lineages.\n\nWith the increasing realization in the first half of the 19th century that species had changed and split through the ages, classification increasingly came to be seen as branches on the evolutionary tree of life. The publication of Darwin's theory of evolution in 1859 gave this view increasing weight. Thomas Henry Huxley, an early advocate of evolutionary theory, proposed a revised taxonomy based on clades.<ref name=\"original text w/ figures\">Huxley, T.H. (1876): Lectures on Evolution. \"New York Tribune\". Extra. no 36. In Collected Essays IV: pp 46-138 original text w/ figures</ref> For example, he grouped birds with reptiles, based on fossil evidence.\n\nGerman biologist Emil Hans Willi Hennig (1913 – 1976) is considered to be the founder of cladistics.\nHe proposed a classification system that represented repeated branchings of the family tree, as opposed to the previous systems, which put organisms on a \"ladder\", with supposedly more \"advanced\" organisms at the top.\n\nTaxonomists have increasingly worked to make the taxonomic system reflect evolution. When it comes to naming, however, this principle is not always compatible with the traditional rank-based nomenclature. In the latter, only taxa associated with a rank can be named, yet there are not enough ranks to name a long series of nested clades. For these and other reasons, phylogenetic nomenclature has been developed; it is still controversial.\n\nA clade is by definition monophyletic, meaning that it contains one ancestor (which can be an organism, a population, or a species) and all its descendants. The ancestor can be known or unknown; any and all members of a clade can be extant or extinct.\n\nThe science that tries to reconstruct phylogenetic trees and thus discover clades is called phylogenetics or cladistics, the latter term coined by Ernst Mayr (1965), derived from \"clade\". The results of phylogenetic/cladistic analyses are tree-shaped diagrams called \"cladograms\"; they, and all their branches, are phylogenetic hypotheses.\n\nThree methods of defining clades are featured in phylogenetic nomenclature: node-, stem-, and apomorphy-based (see here for detailed definitions).\n\nThe relationship between clades can be described in several ways:\n\n\n\"Clade\" is the title of a novel by James Bradley, who chose it both because of its biological meaning and also because of the larger implications of the word.\n\nAn episode of \"Elementary\" was titled \"Dead Clade Walking\" and dealt with a case involving a rare fossil.\n\n"}
{"id": "196196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196196", "title": "Claude Adrien Helvétius", "text": "Claude Adrien Helvétius\n\nClaude Adrien Helvétius (; ; 26 January 1715 – 26 December 1771) was a French philosopher, freemason and \"littérateur\".\n\nClaude Adrien Helvétius was born in Paris, France, and was descended from a family of physicians, originally surnamed \"Schweitzer\" (meaning \"Swiss\" in German; Latinized as \"Helvétius\"). His grandfather Adriaan Helvetius introduced the use of ipecacuanha; his father Jean Claude Adrien Helvétius was first physician to Marie Leszczyńska, queen of France. Claude Adrien was trained for a financial career, apprenticed to his maternal uncle in Caen, but he occupied his spare time with poetry. Aged twenty-three, at the queen's request, he was appointed as a farmer-general, a tax-collecting post worth 100,000 crowns a year. Thus provided for, he proceeded to enjoy life to the utmost, with the help of his wealth and liberality, his literary and artistic tastes - he attended, for example, the progressive Club de l'Entresol. As he grew older, he began to seek more lasting distinctions, stimulated by the success of Pierre Louis Maupertuis as a mathematician, of Voltaire as a poet, and of Montesquieu as a philosopher. His wife, Anne-Catherine de Ligniville, Madame Helvétius, maintained a salon attended by the leading figures of the Enlightenment for over five decades.\n\nIn 1758 Helvétius published his philosophical magnum opus, a work called \"De l'esprit\" (On Mind), which claimed that all human faculties are attributes of mere physical sensation, and that the only real motive is self-interest, therefore there is no good and evil, only competitive pleasures. Its atheistic, utilitarian and egalitarian doctrines raised a public outcry, and the Sorbonne publicly burned it in 1759, forcing Helvétius to issue several retractions.\n\nIn 1764 Helvétius visited England, and the next year, at the invitation of Frederick II, went to Berlin, where the king paid him much attention. \n\nAfter 10 years, when he thought his fortune sufficient, he gave up the post of farmer-general, and retired to a country estate in France, where he employed his fortune in the relief of the poor, the encouragement of agriculture and the development of industries. For this he won the admiration of many of the philosophers.\n\nHelvetius´ family lived alternately on \"Château de Voré\" (Collines des Perches, Loir-et-Cher) and their Parisian townhouse at the \"rue Sainte-Anne\".\n\nHelvétius' philosophical studies ended in the production of his famous book \"De l'esprit\" (On Mind). It was first published in 1758 and was intended to be the rival of Montesquieu's \"Spirit of the Laws\", with Helvétius arguing strongly against Montesquieu's theory that climate influenced the character of nations.\n\nThe work attracted immediate attention and aroused the most formidable opposition, especially from the dauphin Louis, son of King Louis XV. The Advocate General Joly de Fleury condemned it in the Parlement of Paris in January 1759. The Sorbonne condemned the book, while the priests persuaded the court that it was full of the most dangerous doctrines. The book was declared to be hereticalso atheistic that it was condemned by Church and State and was burned. Helvétius, terrified at the storm he had raised, wrote three separate and humiliating retractions. In spite of his protestations of orthodoxy, the book was publicly burned by the Paris hangman.\n\nIt had far-reaching negative effects on the rest of the \"philosophes\", in particular, Denis Diderot, and the great work he was doing on the \"Encyclopedie\". The religious authorities, particularly the Jesuits and the new pope began to fear the spread of atheism and wanted to clamp down on the 'modern thought' hard and quickly. \"De l'esprit\" became almost a scapegoat for this.\nThis great publicity resulted in the book being translated into almost all the languages of Europe. Voltaire said that it lacked originality. Rousseau declared that the very benevolence of the author gave the lie to his principles. Grimm thought that all the ideas in the book were borrowed from Diderot. Madame du Deffand felt that Helvétius had raised such a storm by saying openly what every one thought in secret. Madame de Graffigny claimed that all the good things in the book had been picked up in her own salon.\n\nHelvétius' philosophy belongs to the Egoist school:\n\n\nThis view of man was largely Hobbesianman is a system deterministically controllable by a suitable combination of reward and punishment, and the ends of government are to ensure the maximization of pleasure.\n\n\"All men,\" Helvétius maintained, \"have an equal disposition for understanding.\" As one of the French Enlightenment's many Lockean disciples, he regarded the human mind as a blank slate, but free not only from innate ideas but also from innate natural dispositions and propensities. Physiological constitution was at most a peripheral factor in men's characters or capabilities. Any apparent inequalities were independent of natural organization, and had their cause in the unequal desire for instruction. This desire springs from passions, of which all men commonly well organized are susceptible to the same degree. We thus owe everything to education. Social engineering is therefore an enterprise unconstrained by the natural abilities of men.\n\nThis natural equality applied to all men in all nations, and thus the differences in national characteristics were not the result of innate differences between the people therein, but rather a byproduct of the system education and government. \"No nation,\" wrote Helvétius, \"has reason to regard itself superior to others by virtue of its innate endowment.\"\n\nThis radically egalitarian aspect of Helvétius' philosophy caused Diderot to remark that if it were true, \"De l'esprit\" might just as well have been written by Helvétius' dogkeeper.\n\nSince all men have the same natural potential, Helvétius argued, they all have the same ability to learn. Thus, education is the method by which to reform society, and there are few limits to the drastic social improvements that could be brought about by the appropriate distribution of education. Although people seem to possess certain qualities in greater abundance than their neighbours, the explanation for this comes 'from above' – it is caused by education, law and government. \"If we commonly meet in London, with knowing men, who are with much more difficulty found in France,\" this is because it is a country where \"every citizen has a share in the management of affairs in general.\" \"The art of forming men,\" he concludes, \"is in all countries [...] strictly connected to the form of the government\", and thus education via governmental intervention is the method of reform.\n\nThe crux of his thought was that public ethics has a utilitarian basis, and he insisted strongly on the importance of culture and education in national development. His thinking can be described as unsystematic.\n\nThe original ideas in his system are those of the \"natural equality of intelligences\" and the \"omnipotence of education\", neither of which gained general acceptance, though both were prominent in the system of John Stuart Mill. Cesare Beccaria states that he was largely inspired by Helvétius in his attempt to modify penal laws. Helvétius also exerted some influence on the utilitarian Jeremy Bentham.\n\nThe materialistic aspects of Helvétius, along with Baron d'Holbach, had an influence on Karl Marx, the theorist of historical materialism and communism, who studied the ideas of Helvétius in Paris and later called the materialism of Helvétius and d'Holbach \"the social basis of communism\".\n\nGerman philosopher Johann Georg Hamann vigorously opposed Helvétius's rationalistic doctrines.\n\nBritish philosopher Isaiah Berlin listed Helvétius, along with Hegel, Fichte, Rousseau, Saint-Simon and Maistre as one of the six \"enemies of freedom\" who constituted the ideological basis for modern authoritarianism, in his book \"Freedom and Betrayal: Six Enemies of Human Liberty\".\n\nHis poetic ambitions resulted in the poem called \"Le Bonheur\" (published posthumously, with an account of Helvétius's life and works, by Jean François de Saint-Lambert, 1773), in which he develops the idea that true happiness is only to be found in making the interest of one person that of all.\n\nA work called \"De l'homme, de ses facultés intellectuelles et de son éducation\", found among his manuscripts, was published after his death. There is a complete edition of the works of Helvétius, published at Paris, 1818.\n\nFor an estimate of his work and his place among the philosophers of the 18th century see Victor Cousin's \"Philosophie sensualiste\" (1863); PL Lezaud, \"Résumés philosophiques\" (1853); FD Maurice, in his \"Modern Philosophy\" (1862), pp. 537 seq.; J Morley, \"Diderot and the Encyclopaedists\" (London, 1878); DG Mostratos, \"Die Pädagogik des Helvétius\" (Berlin, 1891); A Guillois, \"Le Salon de Madame Helvétius\" (1894); A Piazzi, \"Le idee filosofiche specialmente pedagogiche de C. A. Helvétius\" (Milan, 1889); Georgi Plekhanov, \"Beiträge zur Geschichte des Materialismus\" (Stuttgart, 1896); L Limentani, \"Le teorie psicologiche de C. A. Helvétius\" (Verona, 1902); A Keim, \"Helvétius, sa vie et son œuvre\" (1907); Isaiah Berlin, \"Helvétius\" in \"Freedom and Its Betrayal: Six Enemies of Liberty\", ed. Henry Hardy, (Oxford, 2002), pp. 11–26.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34694334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34694334", "title": "Cleaning symbiosis", "text": "Cleaning symbiosis\n\nCleaning symbiosis is a mutually beneficial association between individuals of two species, where one (the cleaner) removes and eats parasites and other materials from the surface of the other (the client). Cleaning symbiosis is well-known among marine fish, where some small species of cleaner fish, notably wrasses but also species in other genera, are specialised to feed almost exclusively by cleaning larger fish and other marine animals. Other cleaning symbioses exist between birds and mammals, and in other groups.\n\nCleaning behaviour was first described by the Greek historian Herodotus in about 420 BC, though his example (birds serving crocodiles) appears to occur only rarely.\n\nThe role of cleaning symbioses has been debated by biologists for over thirty years. Some believe that cleaning represents selfless co-operation, essentially pure mutualism, increasing the fitness of both individuals. Others such as Robert Trivers hold that it illustrates mutual selfishness, reciprocal altruism. Others again believe that cleaning behaviour is simply one-sided exploitation, a form of parasitism.\n\nCheating, where either a cleaner sometimes harms its client, or a predatory species mimics a cleaner, also occurs. Predatory cheating is analogous to Batesian mimicry, as where a harmless hoverfly mimics a stinging wasp, though with the tables turned. Some genuine cleaner fish, such as gobies and wrasse, have the same colours and patterns, in an example of convergent evolution. Mutual resemblance among cleaner fish is analogous to Müllerian mimicry, as where stinging bees and wasps mimic each other.\n\nIn his \"Histories\" (book II), the ancient Greek historian Herodotus wrote:\n\nHerodotus thus claimed (circa 440 BC) that Nile crocodiles had what would now be called a cleaning symbiosis with the bird he called the \"trochilus\", possibly a sandpiper; but while he was right about the existence of cleaning symbioses, there is little evidence for it in crocodiles. In 1906 Henry Scherren quoted John Mason Cook, son of travel agent Thomas Cook, as reporting from Egypt that he had seen some spur-winged plovers approach a crocodile, which opened its jaws for them:\n\nMacFarland and Reeder, reviewing the evidence, found that\n\nCleaning symbiosis is a relationship between a pair of animals of different species, involving the removal and subsequent ingestion of ectoparasites, diseased and injured tissue, and unwanted food items from the surface of the host organism (the client) by the cleaning organism (the cleaner). Its status has been debated by biologists, with viewpoints ranging from pure mutualism through to a form of exploitative parasitism by the cleaner.\n\nMarine biologist Alexandra Grutter explains:\n\nGrutter and her colleague Robert Poulin, reviewing over thirty years of debate by biologists on cleaning symbioses, argue that \"Cleaning symbioses may not be mutualistic associations but rather one-sided exploitation\". They quote as an example of an early position, C. Limbaugh writing in 1961: \"From the standpoint of the philosopher of biology, the extent of cleaning behavior in the ocean emphasizes the role of co-operation in nature as opposed to the tooth-and-claw struggle for existence\".\n\nIn 1971, mathematical biologist Robert Trivers wrote more carefully \"Cleaner organisms and their hosts meet the preconditions for the evolution of reciprocally altruistic behavior. The host's altruism is to be explained as benefiting him because of the advantage of being able quickly and repeatedly to return to the same cleaner\" (i.e. mutual selfishness).\n\nBy 1987 G. S. Losey wrote less optimistically \"Cleaners are nothing but very clever behavioral parasites ... that have taken advantage of the rewarding aspects of tactile stimulation, found in nearly all vertebrates.\" Poulin and Grutter remark that \"Over the last few decades, ... the opinion of scientists regarding cleaning symbioses has changed, from selfless cooperation, to a mutually beneficial interaction, and finally to a one-sided exploitation.\"\n\nCleaning symbiosis is known from several groups of animals both in the sea and on land (see table). Cleaners include fish, shrimps and birds; clients include a much wider range of fish, marine reptiles including turtles and iguanas, octopus, whales, and terrestrial mammals. Cleaning symbioses with reptile clients include fish cleaning the teeth of American crocodiles (\"Crocodylus acutus\"), geckos eating mosquitoes on Aldabra giant tortoises (\"Geochelone gigantea\") and scarlet crabs (\"Grapsus grapsus\"), and three species of Galapagos finches removing ticks from marine iguanas (\"Amblyrhynchus cristatus\").\n\nThe best known cleaning symbioses are among marine fishes, where several species of small fish, notably of wrasse, are specialised in colour, pattern and behaviour as cleaners, providing a cleaning and ectoparasite removal service to larger, often predatory fish. Cleaner species, as shown in the table, vary widely in their degree of dependence on their clients. Some are essentially pure obligate symbionts like the cleaner wrasse; some are opportunistic or facultative symbionts, like the orange chromide or some cleaner shrimps; and some, like the oxpeckers, combine a little eating of parasites (beneficial to client) with taking of blood (harmful to client), their favoured food.\n\nMany cleaner fish in different families, such as the Caribbean neon goby (\"Elacatinus evelynae\") and the Indo-Pacific cleaner wrasse (\"Labroides dimidiatus\") share the distinctive combination of a long narrow body, a longitudinal stripe, a blue colour, and small size. \"Convergent signalling among cleaners, using size, stripes and colour, should facilitate their recognition by fish clients.\" This is analogous to Müllerian mimicry where genuinely aposematic species (such as wasps) mimic each other's warning colours.\n\nThe sabre-toothed blenny (\"Aspidontus taeniatus\") is a predatory blenny, an aggressive mimic which accurately resembles the bluestreak cleaner wrasse, not only in colour and pattern, but also in the ritualised dance the cleaner wrasse makes when potential client fish swim nearby. However, instead of providing the cleaning service that it signals, it bites off pieces of healthy skin, scales and mucus from the host and then swims rapidly away to safety.\n\nThe effect of aggressive mimicry in a cleaning symbiosis is analogous to Batesian mimicry, where a harmless \"edible mimetic species copies the warning signal of a noxious, aposematic model species, thereby gaining protection from predators\". As in Batesian mimicry, the rate of successful attacks on cleaning clients by the bluestriped fangblenny (\"Plagiotremus rhinorhynchos\"), which like the sabre-toothed blenny mimic the bluestreak cleaner wrasse (\"Labroides dimidiatus\"), is frequency-dependent, meaning that the mimicry is more effective when the cheating fangblenny is rare compared to the cleaner wrasse. The difference, however, is that the aggressive mimic is inserting itself into a co-operative relationship (between cleaner and client), whereas \"Batesian mimics insert themselves into an antagonistic predator–prey interaction (where the models are the unpalatable prey).\" The fangblenny has evolved an opioid-containing venom which dulls pain and lowers blood pressure, confusing the bitten host and giving the cheating mimic time to escape.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094347", "title": "Denotation (semiotics)", "text": "Denotation (semiotics)\n\nIn semiotics, denotation is the surface or the literal meaning. The definition most likely to appear in a dictionary.\n\nDrawing from the original word or definition proposed by Saussure (1857-1913), a sign has two parts:\nTo transmit information, both the addresser and the addressee must use the same code, whether in the literal sense, e.g. Morse Code or in the form of a language. The denotative meaning of a signifier is intended to communicate the objective semantic content of the represented thing. So, in the case of a lexical word, say \"book\", the intention is to do no more than describe the physical object. Any other meanings or implications will be connotative meanings.\n\nThe distinction between denotation and connotation can be made in textual analysis and the existence of dictionaries is used to support the argument that the sign system begins with a simple meaning that is then glossed as new usages are developed. But this argument equally means that no sign can be separated from both its denotational and connotational meanings, and, since the addresser is always using the sign for a particular purpose in a context, no sign can be divorced from the values of the addresser. Louis Hjelmslev (1899-1965) therefore proposes that although the function of signification may be a single process, denotation is the first step, and connotation the second. Roland Barthes (1915-1980) added a third possible step in world view or \"Weltanschauung\" in which metacognitive schema such as \"liberty\", \"sexuality\", \"autonomy\", etc. create a framework of reference from which more abstract meanings may be attributed to the signs, depending on the context.\n\nBarthes and others have argued that it is more difficult to make a clear distinction when analysing images. For example, how is one to interpret a photograph? In the real world, a human observer has binocular vision, but the two-dimensional picture must be analysed to determine depth and the relative size of objects depicted by applying rules of perspective, the operation of which can be confused by focus and composition. One view might be that the picture as interpreted is evidence of what it depicts and, since the technology collects and stores data from the real world, the resulting picture is a definition of what the camera was pointed at, and so denotational. Adopting the classification of Charles Sanders Peirce, this would be considered an indexical sign, i.e. there is a direct connection between the signifier and the signified. While it is true that an unedited photograph may be an index, digital technology is eroding the viewer's confidence that the image is an objective representation of reality. Further, the photographer made conscious decisions about the composition of the image, how to light it, whether to take a close-up or long shot, etc. All of these decisions represent both the intention and the values of the photographer in wishing to preserve this image. This led John Fiske to suggest that, \"denotation is what is photographed, connotation is how it is photographed\". Such problems become even more difficult to resolve once the audience knows that the photograph or moving image has been edited or staged. (See also modality)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52991970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52991970", "title": "Esoteric Buddhism (book)", "text": "Esoteric Buddhism (book)\n\nEsoteric Buddhism is a book originally published in 1883 in London; it was compiled by a member of the Theosophical Society, A. P. Sinnett. It was one of the first books written for the purpose explain of the theosophy for the wide range of readers, and was \"made up of the author's correspondence with an Indian mystic.\" This is the most significant theosophical work of the author. According to Goodrick-Clarke, it \"disseminated the basic teachings of Theosophy in its new Asian cast.\"\n\nThrough the mediation of Blavatsky Sinnett began a correspondence in 1880 with the two adepts, who sponsored the Theosophical Society, the mahatmas Kuthumi and Morya. Hammer noted that between 1880 and 1884 Sinnett received from the mahatmas circa one hundred twenty letters with explanation of \"occult cosmology\". From this material, he attempted to formulate in his new book \"the basis of a revised theosophy.\" By foundation of the book became \"Cosmological notes\" received from the Mahatma Morya together with a long series of answers to questions sent by mahatma Kuthumi during the summer of 1882.Subba Row received from his Master mahatma Morya the instruction to provide assistance to Sinnett in his work on the book, but, according to the memoirs of the author, he did it reluctantly, and what little help. The main help came from the mahatmas through Blavatsky in the form of answers to the questions referred to her by the author.\n\n\nIn preface to the original edition author says that exoteric Buddhism \"has remained in closer union with the esoteric doctrine\" than any other world religion. Thus, specification of the \"inner knowledge\" addressed to modern readers will be connected with the familiar features of the Buddhist teaching. Sinnett argues that esoteric teaching \"be most conveniently studied in its Buddhist aspect.\"\n\nAt the beginning of the first chapter the author makes the following statement:\n\"I am bringing to my readers knowledge which I have obtained by favour rather than by effort. It will not be found the less valuable on that account; I venture, on the contrary, to declare that it will be found of incalculably greater value, easily as I have obtained it, than any results in a similar direction which I could possibly have procured by ordinary methods of research.\"\nOn the question of the whereabouts of his teachers Sinnett says that for a long time in Tibet there is a \"certain secret region,\" hitherto unknown and inaccessible to ordinary people and for those living in the surrounding mountains as well as for visitors, \"in which adepts have always congregated. But the country generally was not in Buddha's time, as it has since become, the chosen habitation of the great brotherhood. Much more than they are at present, were the Mahatmas in former times, distributed about the world.\" But the development of civilization has led to the fact that many occultists gathered in Tibet. The system of rules and laws for them has been developed in the 14th century by Tsong-ka-pa.\n\nThe author argues that \"a complete, or perfect man\" is made up of seven elements:\n\nA French philosopher René Guénon stated that the central place of the Theosophical doctrine [which there is in Sinnett's book] is occupied the \"idea of evolution.\" He then wrote that, according to the Theosophical teaching, there are\n\"seven 'mother-races' succeed one another in the course of a 'world period', that is to say while the 'wave of life' sojourns on a given planet. Each 'race' includes seven 'sub-races', each of which is divided into seven 'branches'. On the other hand, the 'wave of life' successively runs through seven globes in a 'round', and this 'round' is repeated seven times in a same 'planetary chain', after which the 'wave of life' passes to another 'chain', composed likewise of seven planets which will be traversed seven times in their turn. Thus there are seven 'chains' in a 'planetary system', also called an 'enterprise of evolution'; and finally, our solar system is formed of ten 'planetary systems'... We are presently in the fifth 'race' of our 'world period', and in the fourth 'round' of the 'chain' of which the earth forms part and in which it occupies the fourth rank. This 'chain' is also the fourth of our 'planetary system'.\"\n\nIn the fifth chapter of his book, Sinnett explains the fate of man after death. Of the seven components that make up our personality, the three lower at the time of physical death, moving away from us. The four upper components move on Kama loca, and \"from there [soul] proceed to Devachan, a kind of theosophical version of heaven.\" (The analogy should not be carried overly; Sinnett argues that Devachan is a state, not a place.) Then these four components divide themselves, the law of karma specifies that it will happen to them—different souls receive different devachanic experience. Only after a long stay in this state, the soul reincarnates. New incarnations on the earth plane are actually rather rare, \"but re-birth in less than fifteen hundred years is spoken of as almost impossible.\"\n\nSinnett says that the mediums contact with the inhabitants of Devachan, but very rare, and in this time occurs the following:\n\"The spirit of the sensitive, getting odylized, so to say, by the aura of the spirit in the Devachan, \"becomes\" for a few minutes that departed personality, and writes in the handwriting of the latter, in his language and in his thoughts, as they were during his lifetime. The two spirits become blended in one, and the preponderance of one over the other during such phenomena determines the preponderance of personality in the characteristic exhibited. Thus it may incidentally be observed, what is called \"rapport,\" is, in plain fact, an identity of molecular vibration between the astral part of the incarnate medium and the astral part of the disincarnate personality.\"\n\nLavoie noted that in Sinnett's book there are the two major questions – \"the structure of the universe and spiritual evolution.\" He selected \"some key terms\" in the book.\n\nAvitchi is a state \"of punishment reached only in exceptional cases and by exceptional natures.\" The usual man will work his karma out in a new incarnation.\nDevachan is a state of greatest bliss where \"the levels of intensity and the duration of stay are based on the karma one produces in his/her lifetime.\"\nEighth sphere is a planet associated with our planetary chain that is more materialistic than the earth. The Soul in the mean of the fifth round \"can be sent to the eighth sphere for annihilation if it has developed a positive attraction to materialism and a repulsion of spirituality.\"\nKama loca is \"an unconscious state of gestation. It is here that the fourth principle (the animal soul) is separated from the others.\" The fourth component and some of the fifth component stays in Kama loca while \"the rest of the principles continue on in their spiritual evolution.\" The Ego's duration in Kama loca can last from few moments to years.\nManvantara is a period of activity or manifestation. There are three different manvantaras: 1) the mahamanvantara, 2) the solar manvantara, 3) the minor manvantara.\nMonad is upper triad of the seven principles of man (Atma-Buddhi-Manas).\nPralaya is a state of nonbeing. \"Pralaya is described by Sinnett as a type of sleep, rest, or a time of inactivity.\" There are three different pralayas: 1) the mahapralaya, 2) the solar pralaya, 3) the minor pralaya.\nRound is a full turnover via the seven globes. \"During each round there is a maximum of 120 incarnations for each monad in each race with the average of 8,000 years between incarnations.\"\n\nMan begins as a monad and dwells in seven major races on each of the seven planets. Each race takes circa one million years. Only 12,000 of those will be used for objective existence on the planets. The rest of that time will be used mainly in a subjective existence on the devachanic plane. \"This meant that out of one million years – 988,000 years are spent reaping the effects of karma.\" A branch race is one of seven belonging to a subrace, itself one of seven belonging to a main race. \"If each monad in each race incarnates once, the total number of incarnations in each globe would be 343 (7 branch races x 7 subraces x 7 root races); however, each monad incarnates typically at a minimum of two times and some even more frequently.\" In \"Mahatma Letters\" it is said that \"one life in each of the seven root-races; seven lives in each of the 49 sub-races – or 7 x 7 x 7 = 343 and add 7 more. And then a series of lives in offshoot and branchlet races; making the total incarnations of man in each station or planet 777.\"\n\nThe ninth chapter of Sinnett's book called \"Buddha\". It begins with the words:\n\"The historical Buddha, as known to the custodians of the esoteric doctrine, is a personage whose birth is not invested with the quaint marvels popular story has crowded round it. Nor was his progress to adeptship traced by the literal occurrence of the supernatural struggles depicted in symbolic legend. On the other hand, the incarnation, which may outwardly be described as the birth of Buddha, is certainly not regarded by occult science as an event like any other birth, nor the spiritual development through which Buddha passed during his earth-life a mere process of intellectual evolution, like the mental history of any other philosopher. The mistake which ordinary European writers make in dealing with a problem of this sort lies in their inclination to treat exoteric legend either as a record of a miracle about which no more need be said, or as pure myth, putting merely a fantastic decoration on a remarkable life.\"\nAccording to Lopez, author of \"Esoteric Buddhism\" \"has a broader view of the Buddha\" than that of Western Buddhologists and scholars of Oriental studies. Sinnett stated that the Buddha is simply one of a row \"of adepts who have appeared over the course of the centuries.\" Buddha's next incarnation happened approximately sixty years after his death. He appeared as Shankara, the well-known Vedantic philosopher. Sinnett noted that for the uninitiated it is known that date of Shankara's birth is one thousand years after Buddha's death, and that he was hostile to Buddhism. Sinnett wrote that the Buddha came as Shankara \"to fill up some gaps and repair certain errors in his own previous teaching.\" The Buddha had leaved \"from the practice of earlier adepts by opening the path\" to adeptship to men of all castes. \"Although well-intentioned, this led\" to a deterioration of occult knowledge when it was penetrated into ignominious hands. Sinnett wrote that to further appeared a need \"to take no candidates except from the class which, on the whole, by reason of its hereditary advantages, is likely to be the best nursery of fit candidates.\"Sinnett claimed that the Buddha's next incarnation was as the great Tibetan adept reformer of the 14th century Tsong-ka-pa.\n\nIn the tenth chapter Sinnett expresses (as well as the Mahatmas) his very negative attitude to religiosity of any kind. He argues:\n\"Nothing can produce more disastrous effects on human progress, as regards the destiny of individuals, than the very prevalent notion that one religion followed out in a pious spirit, is as good as another, and that if such and such doctrines are perhaps absurd when you look into them, the great majority of good people will never think of their absurdity, but will recite them in a blamelessly devoted attitude of mind.\"\n\nThe presence of a secret or esoteric teaching in Buddhism is \"not accepted by orthodox Buddhist.\" For example, Rhys Davids wrote:\n\"In this connection, I shall doubtless be expected to say a few words on Theosophy, if only because one of the books giving an account of that very curious and widely spread movement has been called \"Esoteric Buddhism.\" It has always been a point of wonder to me why the author should have chosen this particular title for his treatise. For if there is anything that can be said with absolute certainty about the book it is, that it is not esoteric, and not Buddhism. The original Buddhism was the very contrary of esoteric.\"\nGuénon's opinion on the subject was the same. He wrote that never was genuine \"esoteric Buddhism.\" The ancient Buddhism was substantially an exoteric teaching \"serving as theoretical support for a social movement with egalitarian tendencies.\" According to Guénon, Sinnett, who \"at the beginning probably contributed more than anybody else to make Theosophism known in Europe, was genuinely fooled by all of Mme Blavatsky's tricks.\"\n\nSome Theosophists did not share the views presented by Sinnett in his new work; for example, according to Kingsford, this book was very distant from the esoteric, and the main mistake of the author was that he thought about the symbols as reality.\n\nAfter its first publication in 1883 the book was reprinted several times: in the same 1883 came 2nd edition, in 1885 – 5th, 1898 – 8th. This work has been translated into several European languages: French, German, Italian, Spanish, Russian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1653186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1653186", "title": "Evolutionary arms race", "text": "Evolutionary arms race\n\nIn evolutionary biology, an evolutionary arms race is a struggle between competing sets of co-evolving genes, traits, or species, that develop adaptations and counter-adaptations against each other, resembling an arms race. These are often described as examples of positive feedback. The co-evolving gene sets may be in different species, as in an evolutionary arms race between a predator species and its prey (Vermeij, 1987), or a parasite and its host. Alternatively, the arms race may be between members of the same species, as in the manipulation/sales resistance model of communication (Dawkins & Krebs, 1979) or as in runaway evolution or Red Queen effects. One example of an evolutionary arms race is in sexual conflict between the sexes, often described with the term Fisherian runaway. Thierry Lodé emphasized the role of such antagonistic interactions in evolution leading to character displacements and antagonistic coevolution.\n\nArms races may be classified as either symmetrical or asymmetrical. In a symmetrical arms race, selection pressure acts on participants in the same direction. An example of this is trees growing taller as a result of competition for light, where the selective advantage for either species is increased height. An asymmetrical arms race involves contrasting selection pressures, such as the case of cheetahs and gazelles, where cheetahs evolve to be better at hunting and killing while gazelles evolve not to hunt and kill, but rather to evade capture.\n\nSelective pressure between two species can include host-parasite coevolution. This antagonistic relationship leads to the necessity for the pathogen to have the best virulent alleles to infect the organism and for the host to have the best resistant alleles to survive parasitism. As a consequence, allele frequencies vary through time depending on the size of virulent and resistant populations (fluctuation of genetic selection pressure) and generation time (mutation rate) where some genotypes are preferentially selected thanks to the individual fitness gain. Genetic change accumulation in both population explains a constant adaptation to have lower fitness costs and avoid extinction in accordance with the Red Queen's hypothesis suggested by Leigh Van Valen in 1973.\n\nThe Bintje Potato is derived from a cross between \"Munstersen\" and \"Fransen\" potato varieties. It was created in the Netherlands and now is mainly cultivated in the North of France and Belgium. The oomycete \"Phytophthora infestans\" is responsible for the potato blight, in particular during the European famine in 1840. Zoospores (mobile spores, characteristics of oomycetes) are liberated by zoosporangia provided from a mycelium and brought by rain or wind before infecting tubers and leaves. Black colours appear on the plant because of the infection of its cellular system necessary for the multiplication of the oomycete infectious population. The parasite contains virulent-avirulent allelic combinations in several microsatellite loci, likewise the host contains several multiloci resistance genes (or R gene). That interaction is called gene-for-gene relationship and is, in general, widespread in plant diseases. Expression of genetic patterns in the two species is a combination of resistance and virulence characteristics in order to have the best survival rate.\n\nBats have evolved to use echolocation to detect and catch their prey. Moths have in turn evolved to detect the echolocation calls of hunting bats, and evoke evasive flight maneuvers, or reply with their own ultrasonic clicks to confuse the bat's echolocation. The Arctiidae subfamily of Noctuid moths uniquely respond to bat echolocation in three prevailing hypotheses: startle, sonar jamming, and acoustic aposematic defense. All these differences depend on specific environmental settings and the type of echolocation call; however, these hypotheses are not mutually exclusive and can be used by the same moth for defense. The different defense mechanisms have been shown to be directly responsive to bat echolocation through sympatry studies. In places with spatial or temporal isolation between bats and their prey, the moth species hearing mechanism tends to regress. Fullard et al. (2004) compared adventive and endemic Noctiid moth species in a bat-free habitat to ultrasound and found that all of the adventive species reacted to the ultrasound by slowing their flight times, while only one of the endemic species reacted to the ultrasound signal, indicating a loss of hearing over time in the endemic population. However, the degree of loss or regression depends on the amount of evolutionary time and whether or not the moth species has developed secondary uses for hearing. Some bats are known to use clicks at frequencies above or below moths' hearing ranges. This is known as the allotonic frequency hypothesis. It argues that the auditory systems in moths have driven their bat predators to use higher or lower frequency echolocation to circumvent the moth hearing.Barbastelle bats have evolved to use a quieter mode of echolocation, calling at a reduced volume and further reducing the volume of their clicks as they close in on prey moths. The lower volume of clicks reduces the effective successful hunting range, but results in a significantly higher number of moths caught than other, louder bat species. Moths have further evolved the ability to discriminate between high and low echolocation click rates, which indicates whether the bat has just detected their presence or is actively pursuing them. This allows them to decide whether or not defensive ultrasonic clicks are worth the time and energy expenditure.\n\nRough-skinned newts have skin glands that contain a powerful nerve poison, tetrodotoxin, as an anti-predator adaptation. Throughout much of the newt's range, the common garter snake is resistant to the toxin. While in principle the toxin binds to a tube-shaped protein that acts as a sodium channel in the snake's nerve cells, a mutation in several snake populations configures the protein in such a way as to hamper or prevent binding of the toxin, conferring resistance. In turn, resistance creates a selective pressure that favors newts that produce more toxin. That in its turn imposes a selective pressure favoring snakes with mutations conferring even greater resistance. This evolutionary arms race has resulted in the newts producing levels of toxin far in excess of that needed to kill any other predator. \n\nIn populations where garter snakes and newts live together, higher levels of tetrodotoxin and resistance to it are observed in the two species respectively. Where the species are separated, the toxin levels and resistance are lower. While isolated garter snakes have lower resistance, they still demonstrate an ability to resist low levels of the toxin, suggesting an ancestral predisposition to tetrodotoxin resistance. The lower levels of resistance in separated populations suggest a fitness cost of both toxin production and resistance. Snakes with high levels of tetrodotoxin resistance crawl more slowly than isolated populations of snakes, making them more vulnerable to predation. The same pattern is seen in isolated populations of newts, which have less toxin in their skin. There are geographic hotspots where levels of tetrodotoxin and resistance are extremely high, showing a close interaction between newts and snakes.\n\nThe whelk predators used their own shell to open the shell of their prey, oftentimes breaking both shells of the predator and prey in the process. This led to the fitness of larger-shelled prey to be higher and then more selected for through generations, however, the predator’s population selected for those who were more efficient at opening the larger-shelled prey. This example is an excellent example of asymmetrical arms race because while the prey is evolving a physical trait, the predators are adapting in a much different way.\n\nFloodplain death adders eat three types of frogs, one nontoxic, one producing mucus when taken by the predator, and the highly toxic frogs, however, the snakes have also found if they wait to consume their toxic prey the potency decreases. In this specific case, the asymmetry enabled the snakes to overcome the chemical defenses of the toxic frogs after their death. The results of the study showed that the snake became accustomed to the differences in the frogs by their hold and release timing, always holding the nontoxic, while always releasing the highly toxic frogs, with the frogs that discharge mucus somewhere in between. The snakes would also spend generously more time gaped between the release of the highly toxic frogs than the short gaped time between the release of the frogs that discharge mucus. Therefore, the snakes have a much higher advantage of being able to cope with the different frogs defensive mechanisms, while the frogs could eventually increase the potency of their toxic knowing the snakes would adapt to that change as well, such as the snakes having venom themselves for the initial attack. The coevolution is still highly asymmetrical because of the advantage the predators have over their prey.\n\nWhen a species has not been subject to an arms race previously, it may be at a severe disadvantage and face extinction well before it could ever hope to adapt to a new predator, competitor, etc. This should not seem surprising, as one species may have been in evolutionary struggles for millions of years while the other might never have faced such pressures. This is a common problem in isolated ecosystems such as Australia or the Hawaiian Islands. In Australia, many invasive species, such as cane toads and rabbits, have spread rapidly due to a lack of competition and a lack of adaptations to cane toad bufotenine on the part of potential predators. Introduced species are a major reason why some indigenous species become endangered or even extinct, as was the case with the dodo.\n\n\nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "16036442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16036442", "title": "Francis of Marchia", "text": "Francis of Marchia\n\nFrancis of Marchia (c. 1290 - after 1344) was an Italian Franciscan theologian and philosopher. He was an ally of William of Ockham and Michael of Cesena, and opponent of Pope John XXII, in the struggles of the Franciscan Spirituals, leading to his expulsion from the order in 1329. He was commenting on the \"Sentences\" of Peter Lombard around 1320, but no longer closely bound to Lombard; for example he incidentally theorises on projectile motion, views now thought to be taken from Richard Rufus of Cornwall. He was nicknamed \"Doctor Succinctus\".\n\nAfter his initial education Francis of Marchia became an instructor at various places to include a studia. His most famous teachings were his commentaries on the \"Sentences\" at the University of Paris. It is likely that Marchia's lectures were transcribed by his students, which he edited resulting in several versions of his commentary in manuscript form. Before leaving for Avignon around 1324 to teach at a Franciscan convent, Marchia composed several scholarly commentaries, including two on \"Aristotle's Metaphysics\" and one on \"Physics\". The \"Quodlibet\" was written afterwards, between 1324 and 1328. Marchia supported the Franciscan Minister General, Michael of Cesena, and renounced Pope John XXII’s concept of poverty in 1328. Following the renunciation he fled with Michael and William of Ockham to Munich. The \"Improbatio\", a rebuttal to the Pope's Papal bull titled \"Quia vir reprobus\", was written during this time, as well as the \"Allegationes Religiosorum Vivorum\", co-authored by Marchia and Ockham and assembled by Michael. In 1343 Marchia repented and died shortly after.\n\nIn the \"Improbatio\", Francis of Marchia focuses on determining when and where property rights originated to support the Franciscan belief that Christ lived in absolute poverty. He distinguishes between two types of dominia: the dominium before the fall and the dominium after. The dominium before the fall, also known as the dominion of the prelapsarian state, was a time where all of God’s creatures rejoiced in happiness, were deeply connected to one another, and shared in God’s creation. The dominium after the fall was caused by the first sin of Adam, making the issue of property rights distinctly human.\n\nThe Pope had denied that the origin of property was linked to humans, claiming that it was sin itself that was the cause. Marchia agreed that without sin there would be no property rights, however, sin did not immediately bring about the concept of property. Francis maintained it was human law that was responsible for the formation of property rights, not Divine law, and used the story of Cain and Abel, citing Cain’s corrupted will to support his belief.\n\nFrancis of Marchia’s theory of projectile motion, referred to as virtus derelicta, is described in the sections of his commentaries on \"Sentences\" explaining the consecration of the Eucharist. Virtus derelicta states: the motion of an object is caused by a force left behind by the object that acted upon it. Unlike the theory of inertia meant to explain natural phenomenon, Marchia formulates virtus derelicta to be an all-inclusive explanation of both natural and supernatural phenomena. \nVirtus derelicta explains several different kinds of motion – perpetual and finite - and is meant to account for unnatural changes. Key elements of virtus derelicta include:\n\n\nThere are several philosophers before Marchia’s time, such as Richard Rufus of Cornwall from the 13th century, that seem to form their own versions of virtus derelicta, so it is unclear whether this theory truly originated from Marchia. It is evident, however, that philosophers such as Jean Buridan and Gerard Odonis used Marchia’s theory to refine their own concepts of virtus derelicta, confirming that the Franciscan played a key role in the evolution of philosophy on physics.\n\nAnother focus of Francis of Marchia’s commentary on the \"Sentences\" posed in \"Book II\" was how the will could act against reason resulting in moral culpability: whether the will could either act prior to, or against rational judgment. Marchia argued that the will is the cause of action. After a judgment is made, the will decides to act either in accordance with that judgment or against it. The will constitutes the middle term between judgment and action. Without it, the judgment would necessitate action, negating the concept of free will and moral culpability. In addition, the will is under a law that obliges it to perform good acts. Without this obligation there would be no sin.\n\nTo answer how the will could go against this obligation, Marchia distinguishes between apprehensive and a judicative acts. Apprehensive acts are necessary for the will to function, and are result of intellectual cognitions and judgments. Judicative acts are formed from more complex knowledge where reasoning is judiciously applied. Volition does not require judicative acts to be performed, which explains how humans are able to sin. In other words, the will does not depend on rational judgment. \nTo avoid the objection that judgment is required for reasoning and cannot be ignored in the deliberative process, Marchia offers a further distinction between apprehensive and judicative knowledge, and two types of rational reflective judgments. These distinctions allow for one judgment to be selected over another due to the strength it receives from being selected by the will.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16067906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16067906", "title": "Gerard of Abbeville", "text": "Gerard of Abbeville\n\nGerard of Abbeville (1220-1272) was a theologian from the University of Paris. He formally became a theologian in 1257 and from then was known as an opponent of the mendicant orders, particularly in the second stage of the conflict, taking part in a concerted attack that temporarily affected their privileges.\n\nHis \"Contra adversarium perfectionis christianae\" of c. 1269, in support of William of St Amour, argued that extreme emphasis on poverty contradicted the Aristotelian doctrine of the mean and undermined the basis of pastoral work. It provoked replies from Thomas Aquinas and Bonaventure. From the Franciscan side, Bonaventure wrote \"Apologia pauperum\", and John Peckham wrote his \"Tractatus pauperis\". The Dominican Aquinas wrote his case on the \"state of perfection\" in \"De Perfectione Vitae Spiritualis contra Doctrinam Retrahentium a Religione\" (1270).\n\nOn trinitarian theology, however, Gerard was much closer to the emerging Franciscan view. With Aquinas, he was one of the developers of the \"quodlibet\" genre of open philosophical discussion, flourishing for about a century from his time. His polemics used a combination of quodlibets and sermons.\n\nHe was a major benefactor to the Sorbonne library, leaving it around 300 books and manuscripts; his collection was based on that of Richard de Fournival, outstanding in Europe in his time.\n"}
{"id": "724710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=724710", "title": "Gravitas", "text": "Gravitas\n\nGravitas was one of the Roman virtues, along with \"pietas\", \"dignitas\", and \"virtus\", that were particularly appreciated in leaders. Evidence shows that it was most likely influenced by the Greek virtue of \"Arete\". It may be translated variously as weight, seriousness, dignity, and importance and connotes a certain substance or depth of personality. It also conveys a sense of responsibility and commitment to the task. In the British education system, \"gravitas\" was seen as one of the pillars of the moral formation of the English gentleman during the Victorian and Edwardian eras.\n\nIn the UK House of Commons, the quality is known as \"bottom\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9104456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9104456", "title": "Gumersindo de Azcárate", "text": "Gumersindo de Azcárate\n\nGumersindo de Azcárate (1840, León - 1917, Madrid) was a Spanish philosopher, jurist and politician.\n\nAfter law studies in Oviedo, he taught comparative law in Madrid since 1864 and represented León in the Cortes. In the 1870s, he joined Francisco Giner de los Ríos and Julián Sanz del Río to teach at the Institución Libre de Enseñanza (Institute of Free Teaching).\n\nDe Azcárate was a leading representative of Krausismo, a philosophy based on the teachings of Karl Christian Friedrich Krause, in law. In his works, which include \"Estudios económicos y sociales\" (1876), \"El self-government y la Monarquía doctrinaria\" (1877), \"Estudios filosóficos y políticos\" (1877) and \"Concepto de la Sociología\" (1876), he opposed excessive political centralism, proposed privatisation of nonessential governmental functions and studied models of parliamentary and decentralised government.\n\nIn 1912, he was the co-founder of the Reformist Republican Party.\n"}
{"id": "16729398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16729398", "title": "Harry (derogatory term)", "text": "Harry (derogatory term)\n\nHarry is a Norwegian derogatory term used in slang, derived from the English name Harry. The best English translation may be \"cheesy\" or \"tacky\". \"Norsk ordbok\" defines \"harry\" as \"tasteless, vulgar\".\n\nThe term \"harry\" was first used by upper class youth in Oslo in the beginning of the 20th century, and was used to describe people who belonged to the working class. People in the lower social classes at the time often gave their children English first names such as Harry. The middle and upper classes mostly preferred Scandinavian or German (and occasionally French) names. English names (except English names that are also widely found in other European languages) had no tradition in Scandinavia and were generally considered bad taste and as a phenomenon of the working-class of the time in all the Scandinavian countries. The traditional elite of Norway mostly used conservative Danish names.\n\nA person who is \"harry\" is often perceived as unsophisticated, vulgar or with bad taste. The effect of bad taste is often characterized with the term \"harry\", e.g. a \"harry\" dress or a \"harry\" car. Since the definition of good and bad taste is defined by fashion, there is no precise definition of \"harry\". D.D.E., Sputnik, shopping in Sweden, Raggare culture and mullets are often mentioned today. In the 1970s it was the 1960s' hairwax or sharp shoes that were harry. In the 1980s the 1970s' flared pants or whiskers, and in the 1990s more or less everything that could be associated with the 1980s. Yesterday's fashion will often be interpreted as harry. Often what is harry in one period can be hip retro fashion the next year.\n\nHarry may also be interpreted as something like macho. The feminine parallel is \"doris\".\n\nThe term was repopularised by then minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim in 2002 to describe Norwegians who drive (in some cases, for hours) to reach and cross the border to Sweden in order to purchase groceries, tobacco and alcohol at cheaper prices. Responses to this were retorts that seeking out bargains is smart shopping, and Swedish shops introduced humorous campaigns with one shopkeeper giving 1000 SEK to customers named \"Harry\". The terms \"Harrytur\" (\"Harry trip\") or \"Harryhandel\" (\"Harry trade\") have since been popular descriptions of this trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16051914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16051914", "title": "Hugh of Newcastle", "text": "Hugh of Newcastle\n\nHugh of Newcastle (died 1322, buried in Paris) was a Franciscan theologian and scholastic philosopher, a pupil of Duns Scotus. His origin in Newcastle-upon-Tyne is questioned; he may have been from another place called Neufchâtel.\n\nHe wrote a commentary on the \"Sentences\" of Peter Lombard. He was also author of a prophetic work \"De Victoria Christi contra Antichristum\", from 1319, encyclopedic on the Apocalypse and its signs, printed in 1471.\n\nHugh is a character in \"The Name of the Rose\" by Umberto Eco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37455368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37455368", "title": "Internal measurement", "text": "Internal measurement\n\nThe internal measurement is one of the measurement theories. From, we introduce the definition of the internal measurement. \nThe experience consists of \"unremitting measurements\". These \"unremitting measurements\" appear only in the experience. In the experience, if any individual has a relation to another individual then this is a \"measurement which identifies another individual\", where this measurement enable if the individual can specify the effects from another individual. Moreover, a \"measurement which identifies another individual\" is unremitting in the experience. As above a measurement such that if any individual measure another individual then this measurement inherent in \"unremitting measurements\" is called the internal measurement. This theory is found by Kouichirou Matsuno and \nis developed by Yukio-Pegio Gunji. \n\nThere is a likeness between internal measurement and endophysics. \nHowever, they have slight difference, that is, internal measurement have before-after logical asymmetry. \n"}
{"id": "1939679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939679", "title": "John Elof Boodin", "text": "John Elof Boodin\n\nJohn Elof Boodin (November 14, 1869 – November 14, 1950) was a Swedish-born American philosopher and educator. He was the author of numerous books proposing a systematic interpretation of nature. Boodin's work preserved the tradition of philosophical idealism within the framework of contemporary science. Boodin also focused on the social nature of human behavior believing an understanding required an appreciation of individual participation in social life and interpersonal relationship.\nJohn Elof Boodin was born in Pjätteryd Parish in Älmhult, Kronoberg County, Sweden. Boodin was a younger son of sizable rural family. In his youth, several of his brothers had already immigrated to the United States. During his lifetime additional siblings continued to settle in America. He attended the mission training school established by Swedish Lutheran missionary Peter Fjellstedt in Uppsala. He emigrated to the United States from Småland, Sweden in 1887 at the age of 18. He taught at the parochial school of the First Evangelical Lutheran Church of Galesburg, Illinois. Boodin subsequently attended Augustana College in Rock Island, Illinois. He was later educated at the University of Colorado at Boulder and University of Minnesota where he was influenced by the psychologists James Rowland Angell, William James, and Josiah Royce. He studied philosophy under James Seth at Brown University where he earned his B. A. and M. A. before doctoral work at Harvard University, where he received his Ph.D. in 1899.\n\nBoodin held positions at Grinnell College (1900–1904), the University of Kansas (1904–1913), Carleton College, Minnesota (1913–1927), University of Southern California, and University of California at Los Angeles (1927–1928). During his professional career and into his retirement, he published eight books. He also wrote more than sixty articles for various scholarly journals. The workpapers of John Elof Boodin are maintained at the University of California Los Angeles Library Special Collections.\nAmong many honors bestowed upon him were his election in 1937 to membership in the permanent council of the World Congress of Philosophy; membership in the Authors' Club of London; appointment as Sir John Adams Lecturer in 1935 and as Faculty Research Lecturer in 1937 at the University of California at Los Angeles. He served as director of the Los Angeles Public Library Lectures on Philosophy and as president of The Metaphysical Society in Los Angeles. He also served as president of the American Philosophical Association, Western Division (1932–33).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3837382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3837382", "title": "Josephinism", "text": "Josephinism\n\nJosephinism was the collective domestic policies of Joseph II, Holy Roman Emperor (1765–1790). During the ten years in which Joseph was the sole ruler of the Habsburg Monarchy (1780–1790), he attempted to legislate a series of drastic reforms to remodel Austria in the form of what liberals saw as an ideal \"Enlightened\" state. This provoked severe resistance from powerful forces within and outside his empire, but ensured that he would be remembered as an \"enlightened ruler\" by historians from then to the present day.\n\nBorn in 1741, Joseph was the son of Maria Theresa of Austria and Francis I, Holy Roman Emperor. Given a rigorous education in the Age of Enlightenment—with its emphasis on rationality, order, and careful organization in statecraft—it is little wonder that, viewing the often confused and complex morass of Habsburg administration in the crownlands of Austria, Bohemia, and Hungary, Joseph was deeply dissatisfied. He inherited the crown of the Holy Roman Empire in 1765, on the death of his father, but ruled the Habsburg lands only as \"joint ruler\" with his mother, the matriarch Maria Theresa, until 1780.\n\nIt was on the death of his mother in 1780 that Joseph II had the opportunity—free of any dominating hand—to pursue his own agenda. He intended a complete remodeling of Habsburg society in several different arenas. Issuing decrees and Patents, Joseph's reforms were a conscious attempt to reorder the rule of his lands using Enlightened principles. At the heart of this \"Josephinism\" lay the idea of the unitary state, with a centralized, efficient government, rational and mostly secular society, with greater degrees of equality and freedom, and fewer arbitrary feudal institutions.\n\nFor many centuries, the majority of the population of Central Europe had lived as serfs, laboring under feudal obligations to Lords. On November 1, 1781, Joseph issued two Patents pertaining to Bohemia, which changed the serf-Lord relationship there by abolishing the use of fines and corporal punishment on serfs, and abolishing Lords' control over serfs' marriage, freedom of movement, and choice of occupation. The patents also allowed peasants to purchase hereditary ownership of the land that they worked. The nobility were hesitant to support Joseph's edicts, however, and they were inconsistently applied.\n\nThroughout his reign, Joseph's ultimate goal was one shared originally with his mother regarding policy toward the serfs. Robin Okey, in \"The Habsburg Monarchy\", describes it as the replacement of the forced serf labor system by the division of landed estates (including the demesne) among rent-paying tenants\". In 1783, Joseph's advisor Franz Anton von Raab was instructed to extend this system to all lands owned directly by the Habsburg crown in Bohemia and Moravia.\n\nIn February 1781, Joseph issued an edict drastically reducing the power of state censorship over the press. Censorship was limited only to expression that (a) blasphemed against the church, (b) subverted the government, or (c) promoted immorality. Censorship was also taken out of the hands of local authorities and centralized under the Habsburg imperial government.\n\nJoseph was remarkably tolerant of dissenting speech—his censors banned only about 900 tracts published each year (down from 4,000 a year banned before his reign). One tract that even criticized him specifically, titled \"The 42 Year-Old Ape\", was not banned.\n\nWhile himself a Catholic—and certainly no advocate of unlimited religious freedom—Joseph was willing to tolerate a level of religious diversity in his domain that had been unthinkable not long before.\n\nIn May and October 1781, Joseph issued Edicts which removed restrictions against the practice of Protestant and Orthodox Christian religion. In communities with large Protestant or Orthodox minorities, churches were allowed to be built, and social restrictions on vocations, economic activity, and education were removed.\n\nIn 1782, Joseph dismantled many of the legal barriers against Jews performing certain professions, and lifted Jewish dress laws, Jewish-only taxes, and some restrictions on the movement of Jews. Nevertheless, he remained of the belief that Jews possessed \"repellent characteristics\". His decrees regarding that community did not include Galicia, the Habsburg province with the largest Jewish minority.\n\nRegarding the Catholic Church, Joseph was virulently opposed to what he called \"contemplative\" religious institutions—reclusive institutions that were seen as doing nothing positive for the community.\n\nBy Joseph's decree, Austrian bishops could not communicate directly with the Curia anymore. More than 500 of 1,188 monasteries in Austro-Slav lands (and a hundred more in Hungary) were dissolved, and 60 million florins taken by the state. This wealth was used to create 1,700 new parishes and welfare institutions.\n\nThe education of priests was taken from the Church as well. Joseph established six state-run \"General Seminaries\". In 1783, a Marriage Patent treated marriage as a civil contract rather than a religious institution.\n\nWhen the pope visited Austria in 1782, Joseph refused to rescind the majority of his decisions.\n\nIn 1783, the cathedral chapter of Passau opposed the nomination of a Josephinist bishop and sent, first, an appeal to the emperor himself, which naturally was rejected, then an appeal to the Imperial Diet at Regensburg, from which body, however, help could scarcely be expected. Assistance offered by Prussia was refused by Cardinal Firmian's successor, Bishop Joseph Franz Auersperg, an adherent of Josephinism. The bishop of Passau and the majority of his cathedral chapter finally yielded in order to save the secular property of the diocese.\n\nBy an agreement of 4 July 1784, the confiscation of all the properties and rights belonging to the Diocese of Passau in Austria was annulled, and the tithes and revenues were restored to it. In return Passau gave up its diocesan rights and authority in Austria, including the provostship of Ardagger, and bound itself to pay 400,000 gulden ($900,000), afterwards reduced by the emperor to one-half toward the equipment of the new diocese.\n\nThere was nothing left for Pope Pius VI to do but to give his consent, even though unwillingly, to the emperor's authoritarian act. The papal sanction of the agreement between Vienna and Passau was issued on 8 November 1784, and on 28 January 1785, appeared the Bull of Erection, \"Romanus Pontifex\".\n\nAs early as 1785 the Viennese ecclesiastical order of services was made obligatory, \"in accordance with which all musical litanies, novenas, octaves, the ancient touching devotions, also processions, vespers, and similar ceremonies, were done away with.\" Numerous churches and chapels were closed and put to secular uses; the greater part of the old religious foundations and monasteries were suppressed as early as 1784.\n\nNevertheless there could be no durable peace with the bureaucratic civil authorities, and Bishop Ernest Johann Nepomuk von Herberstein was repeatedly obliged to complain to the emperor of the tutelage in which the Church was kept, but the complaints bore little fruit.\n\nCatholic historians claimed that there was an alliance between Joseph and anti-clerical Freemasons.\n\nThe pace of reform in Joseph's empire was uneven, especially in the crownlands of Hungary. Joseph was reluctant to include Hungary in most of his reforms early in his reign.\n\nIn 1784, Joseph brought the Hungarian Crown of St. Stephen from Pressburg, capital of Royal Hungary, to Vienna. Similarly, he brought the Bohemian Crown of Saint Wenceslas to Vienna. These were symbolic acts, meant to emphasize a new unity between the Habsburg crownlands, wherein they were to be seen as a singular entity. \nGerman replaced Latin as the official language of administration in Hungary. In 1785, Joseph extended his abolition of serfdom to Hungary, and a census of the Crown land was ordered, in order to prepare it for an Austrian-style military draft.\n\nIn 1787, the \"administrative streamlining\" that had been applied to the rest of the Empire was nominally applied to Austrian possessions in the Netherlands, but this was fiercely opposed by Belgian nobles, and would be a major contribution to the Brabant Revolution.\n\nJosephinism made many enemies inside the empire—from disaffected ecclesiastical authorities to noblemen. By the later years of his reign, disaffection with his sometimes radical policies was at a high, especially in the Austrian Netherlands and Hungary. Popular revolts and protests—led by nobles, seminary students, writers, and agents of Prussian King Frederick William—stirred throughout the Empire, prompting Joseph to tighten censorship of the press.\n\nBefore his death in 1790, Joseph was forced to rescind many of his administrative reforms. He returned the crown of St. Stephen to Buda in Hungary and promised to abide by the Hungarian constitution. Before he could actually be officially crowned \"King of Hungary\", he died at the age of 49.\n\nJoseph's brother and successor, Leopold II, reversed the course of the Empire by rescinding some Josephine reforms, but managed to preserve the unity of the Habsburg lands by showing a respect and sensitivity for local demands that Joseph lacked.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52855649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52855649", "title": "Karen Cook", "text": "Karen Cook\n\nKaren Schweers Cook (born July 25, 1946) is an American sociologist and the Ray Lyman Wilbur Professor of Sociology at Stanford University, where she is also Vice-Provost for Faculty Development and Diversity and the director of the Institute for Research in the Social Sciences.\n\nBefore becoming a member of the Stanford faculty in 1998, Cook was a department chair at the University of Washington and then the James B. Duke Professor of Sociology at Duke University. At Stanford, she is the Ray Lyman Wilbur Professor of Sociology at Stanford University, Vice-Provost for Faculty Development and Diversity and the director of the Institute for Research in the Social Sciences.\n\nCook has been elected to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences. She received the Cooley-Mead Award from the American Sociological Association in 2004.\nShe was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 2018.\n\nCook is a co-editor of the \"Annual Review of Sociology\". She is a past president of the Pacific Sociological Association and a former vice president of the International Institute of Sociology and the American Sociological Association. She was named to the Russell Sage Foundation Board of Trustees in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "29535266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29535266", "title": "Karim Mojtahedi", "text": "Karim Mojtahedi\n\nKarim Mojtahedi is an Iranian philosophy professor at Tehran University. He has published over 20 books on philosophy. He was awarded UNESCO's Avicenna Prize for Ethics in Science at the 4th International Farabi Festival and received a plaque of honor from Iran’s Cultural Luminaries Association.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36826679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36826679", "title": "L. C. Dunn", "text": "L. C. Dunn\n\nLeslie Clarence Dunn (November 2, 1893 in Buffalo, New York – March 19, 1974) was a developmental geneticist at Columbia University. His early work with the mouse T-locus and established ideas of gene interaction, fertility factors, and allelic distribution. Later work with other model organisms continued to contribute to developmental genetics. Dunn was also an activist, helping fellow scientists seek asylum during World War II, and a critic of eugenics movements.\n\nDunn was born in Buffalo, New York, in 1893, to Clarence Leslie Dunn and Mary Eliza Booth Dunn. He earned a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College in 1915.\n\nDunn served in the Harvard Regiment in France during World War I, and after the war, returned to Harvard University to complete his degree in 1920. After the war, he identified as a pacifist. He worked from 1920 - 1928 as a poultry geneticist at an Agricultural Experiment Station in Storrs, Connecticut, publishing almost fifty papers during this time.\n\nDunn, along with colleague E. W. Sinnott, was the author of one of the foremost early genetics texts, \"Principles of Genetics\" (first published in 1925).\n\nIn 1928 Dunn was invited to join Columbia University as a full professor in the Zoology Department. While there, he was renowned for his teaching, and influenced numerous students, included \"outstanding\" developmental biologists Salome Gluecksohn-Waelsch and Dorothea Bennett.\n\nDunn was married to Louise Porter, a Smith College graduate, and the couple had two children, Robert Leslie Dunn (b. 1921) and Stephen Porter Dunn (b. 1928). Dunn and his family loved literature and poetry, as did Dunn's mother, and established a press (Coalbin Press) to publish occasional volumes of poetry. The younger son, Stephen, was a social anthropologist and writer, publishing books such as \"The Peasants of Central Russia\" (1967) and \"Introduction to Soviet Ethnography\" (1974) (with his wife Ethel Deikman Dunn), \"Cultural Processes in the Baltic Area Under Soviet Rule\" (1966), and edited, translated, and taught.\n\nHe died on March 19, 1974 at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, New York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17899657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17899657", "title": "Libelle (literary genre)", "text": "Libelle (literary genre)\n\nA libelle is a political pamphlet or book which slanders a public figure. \"Libelles\" held particular significance in France under the Ancien Régime, especially during the eighteenth century, when the pamphlets’ attacks on the monarchy became both more numerous and venomous. In recent years, cultural historian Robert Darnton has written on the \"libelles\", arguing for the subversive power that the \"libelles\" of the late eighteenth century exercised in undermining monarchical authority.\n\nThe word \"libelle\" is derived from the Latin \"libellus\", for “small book.” Although originally it was used to describe pamphlets in general, it became primarily applicable to the genre of brief and defamatory attacks on pre-revolutionary French public figures. The 1762 edition of the dictionary published by the Académie française defines \"libelle\" as an “offensive work.” The publishers of \"libelles\" were known as \"libellistes\".\n\n\"Libelles\" varied widely in format and style. Early \"libelles\" consisted of either a half-sheet or a single sheet in octavo format. Some later \"libelles\", published in the eighteenth-century for example, were book-length, or even ran into multiple volumes. Regardless of their format, the \"libelles\" were cohesive in their overblown and sensationalist style; they were full of wordplay, and often employed literary techniques such as metaphor. The \"libelles\" were defiant of authority, and spoke out against prominent individuals.\n\n\"Libelles\" were invariably of a political nature, both slanderous and subversive. They proliferated during times of political crises, from the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries.\n\nIn the 1580s, during the French Wars of Religion, \"libelles\" flourished, with an average of about one \"occasionnel\" published per day in Paris. \"Libelles\" were published in support of both the Catholic and the Protestant points of view. Catholic \"libelles\" were typically pointed at the King, attacking his character, primarily his weak religious beliefs, and portraying him as not only godless, but evil. The Protestant \"libelles\" accused the Catholic League of treasonously supporting the pope.\n\nDuring the civil war known as the Fronde, \"libelles\" proliferated in France, numbering around 5,000 in the years 1648–1653. During the Fronde, the majority of \"libelles\" were directed against Cardinal Mazarin, the chief minister of France. These \"libelles\" were referred to as \"Mazarinades\". They ridiculed Mazarin for a wide variety of things, including his low birth, his luxurious proclivities and speculated on his erotic liaison with the Queen Mother, Anne of Austria. One of the most famous of these characterized Mazarin as follows:\n\nThese \"libelles\" excited concerns on the part of the government. Presumably alarmed by the seditious possibilities of the \"libelles\", the Parlement of Paris issued an ordinance against \"libellistes\", declaring that anyone caught producing such pamphlets would be hanged. This ran the business of \"libelles\" underground, and many \"libellistes\" relocated to Holland—or affected to on the title pages; there they continued to publish their slander.\n\nPerhaps the most numerous and scathing \"libelles\" came out of the two decades prior to the French Revolution. Darnton lists five ways in which the \"libelles\" of the 1770s and 1780s differed from their ancestors.\nFirst, the later \"libelles\" differed in their scale. Eighteenth-century \"libelles\" were much heftier volumes than their single (or half) sheet predecessors. Some \"libelles\" of this period ran as large as thirty-six volumes. The fact that such pamphlets were beginning to be compiled into books increased the longevity of the \"libelles\".\nSecond, the system which distributed the \"libelles\" had changed. The publishing industry which circulated eighteenth-century \"libelles\" was increasingly vast, and no longer localized. \nThird, the way in which the \"libelles\" attacked public figures had advanced. In eighteenth-century \"libelles\", the sex lives of the public figures who were attacked were contextualized as contemporary history.\nFourth, the way that \"libelles\" conceptualized their victims had changed. Even when earlier \"libelles\" attacked Louis XIV, a sense of respect and even deference was implied in the writings. By the 1770s, the way that the \"libelles\" conceptualized Louis XV was much less respectful, and implied that the monarch was a mere womanizer, with no interest in state affairs. Marie Antoinette fared even worse, as the number of pornographic libelles that involved her proliferated into the revolutionary era.\nFifth, later \"libelles\" seemed to criticize monarchy as a system, whereas early \"libelles\" only attacked individual figures. It was implied in the earlier pamphlets that individual figures, such as Mazarin, were responsible for the State’s problems. With the \"libelles\" of the later years, however, the attack was focused against the entire governmental system, and monarchy as a whole.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3573079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3573079", "title": "Marilena de Souza Chaui", "text": "Marilena de Souza Chaui\n\nMarilena de Souza Chaui (born September 4, 1941) is a Brazilian philosopher and Professor of Modern Philosophy in the University of São Paulo. She is a scholar of Baruch Spinoza and Maurice Merleau-Ponty. Chaui is one of the founding members of Workers' Party and assiduous criticism of the capitalist model.\n\nChaui is a Professor of Political Philosophy and History of Modern Philosophy in the University of São Paulo, having been awarded a master's degree in 1967, and received her doctorate in 1971 with the essay \"Introduction to Reading Spinoza\", under the guidance of Professor Gilda de Mello e Souza Rocha. In 1977, she taught Philosophy in the University of São Paulo.\n\nHer book \"What is Ideology?\" was selected by the Ministry of Education and Culture of Brazil as a mandatory textbook in public schools, becoming a bestseller with over a hundred thousand copies sold. Chaui had served as Municipal Secretary of Culture of São Paulo, from 1989 to 1992, during the administration of Luiza Erundina (1988-1992). In 2013, during the release of the book \"10 Years of Post-Liberal Government in Brasil: Lula and Dilma\", Marilena received a negative reception when during her speech she stated that : \"It's because I hate the middle class. The middle class is a delay of life. The middle class is stupidity. It is what we have as the most reactionary, conservative, ignorant, cocky, arrogant, terrorist... The middle class is a political abomination, because it is fascist. It is an ethical abomination because it is violent. It is a cognitive abomination...\" \n\nShe has been accused by some as inciting hatred and using several derogatory terms against a portion of the population, particularly the middle class as being too reactionary, while praising the current president Dilma Rousseff and Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and populist criticisms against the Brazilian middle-class.\n\nChaui is the daughter of the journalist Nicholas Alberto Chaui, of Arabic origin, and teacher Laura de Souza Chaui. She was married to the journalist José Augusto de Mattos Berlinck, with whom she had two sons - José Guilherme and Luciana. She is currently married to Michael Hall, a historian and professor at the State University of Campinas.\n\nShe is the author of, among others, \n\n"}
{"id": "1480879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1480879", "title": "Maya codices", "text": "Maya codices\n\nMaya codices (singular \"codex\") are folding books written by the pre-Columbian Maya civilization in Maya hieroglyphic script on Mesoamerican bark paper. The folding books are the products of professional scribes working under the patronage of deities such as the Tonsured Maize God and the Howler Monkey Gods. Most of the codices were destroyed by conquistadors and Catholic priests in the 16th century. The codices have been named for the cities where they eventually settled. The Dresden codex is generally considered the most important of the few that survive.\n\nThe paper was made from the inner bark of certain trees, the main being the wild fig tree or \"amate\" (\"Ficus glabrata\"). This sort of paper was generally known by the word \"āmatl\" in Nahuatl, and by the word \"huun\" in Mayan. The Maya developed their \"huun\"-paper around the 5th century, which is roughly the same time that the codex became predominant over the scroll in the Roman world. Maya paper was more durable and a better writing surface than papyrus.\n\nThere were many books in existence at the time of the Spanish conquest of Yucatán in the 16th century; most were destroyed by the Catholic priests. Many in Yucatán were ordered destroyed by Bishop Diego de Landa in July 1562. In his conviction of the superiority and absolute truth of Christianity, De Landa wrote: We found a large number of books in these characters and, as they contained nothing in which were not to be seen as superstition and lies of the devil, we burned them all, which they regretted to an amazing degree, and which caused them much affliction.\n\nSuch codices were the primary written records of Maya civilization, together with the many inscriptions on stone monuments and stelae that survived. Their range of subject matter in all likelihood embraced more topics than those recorded in stone and buildings, and was more like what is found on painted ceramics (the so-called 'ceramic codex'). Alonso de Zorita wrote that in 1540 he saw numerous such books in the Guatemalan highlands that \"recorded their history for more than eight hundred years back, and that were interpreted for me by very ancient Indians\" (Zorita 1963, 271-2).\n\nDominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas lamented that when found, such books were destroyed: \"These books were seen by our clergy, and even I saw part of those that were burned by the monks, apparently because they thought [they] might harm the Indians in matters concerning religion, since at that time they were at the beginning of their conversion.\" The last codices destroyed were those of Nojpetén, Guatemala in 1697, the last city conquered in the Americas. With their destruction, access to the history of the Maya and opportunity for insight into some key areas of Maya life was greatly diminished.\n\nThere are only three codices whose authenticity is beyond doubt. These are:\n\n\nA fourth codex that remained controversial until 2015 has been authenticated. Recent research, which includes a study that used everything from X-rays to UV imaging and microscopic analysis, points to its authenticity.\n\n\nThe Dresden Codex (\"Codex Dresdensis\") is held in the Sächsische Landesbibliothek (SLUB), the state library in Dresden, Germany. It is the most elaborate of the codices, and also a highly important specimen of Maya art. Many sections are ritualistic (including so-called 'almanacs'), others are of an astrological nature (eclipses, the Venus cycles). The codex is written on a long sheet of paper that is 'screen-folded' to make a book of 39 leaves, written on both sides. It was probably written between the twelfth and fourteenth centuries. Somehow it made its way to Europe and was bought by the royal library of the court of Saxony in Dresden in 1739. The only exact replica, including the \"huun\", made by a German artist is displayed at the \"Museo Nacional de Arqueología\" in Guatemala City, since October, 2007.\n\nExactly how the Dresden Codex ended up in Europe is not clear. It arrived sometime in the late 18 Century, potentially from the first or second generation of Spanish conquerors.  Even though the last date entry in the book is from several centuries before its relocation, the book was likely used and added to until just before the conquerors took it. \n\nAbout 65% of the pages in the Dresden Codex contain richly illustrated astronomical tables. These tables focus on eclipses, equinoxes and solstices, the sidreal cycle of Mars, and the synodic cycles of Mars and Venus. These observations allowed the Mayans to plant the calendar year, agriculture, and religious ceremonies around the stars.  In the text, Mars is represented by a long nosed deer, and Venus is represented by a star. \n\nPages 51-58 are eclipse tables. These tables accurately predicted solar eclipses for 33 years in the 8 Century, though the predictions of lunar eclipses were far less successful. Icons of serpents devouring the sun symbolize eclipses throughout the book. The glyphs show roughly 40 times in the text, making eclipses a major focus of the Dresden Codex. \n\nThe first 52 pages of the Dresden Codex are about divination. The Mayan astronomers would use the codex for day keeping, but also determining the cause of sickness and other misfortunes. \n\nThough a wide variety of gods and goddesses appear in the Dresden Codex, the Moon Goddess is the only neutral figure. In the first 23 pages of the book, she is mentioned far more than any other god. \n\nBetween 1880 and 1900, Dresden librarian Ernst Förstemann succeeded in deciphering the Maya numerals and the Maya calendar and realized that the codex is an ephemeris. Subsequent studies have decoded these astronomical almanacs, which include records of the cycles of the Sun and Moon, including eclipse tables, and all of the naked-eye planets. The \"Serpent Series\", pp. 61–69, is an ephemeris of these phenomena that uses a base date of 1.18.1.8.0.16 in the prior era (5,482,096 days).\n\nThe Codex was discovered in Spain in the 1860s; it was divided into two parts of differing sizes that were found in different locations. The Codex receives its alternate name of the Tro-Cortesianus Codex after the two parts that were separately discovered. Ownership of the Troano Codex passed to the Museo Arqueológico Nacional (\"National Archaeological Museum\") in 1888. The Museo Arqueológico Nacional acquired the Cortesianus Codex from a book-collector in 1872, who claimed to have recently purchased the codex in Extremadura. Extremadura is the province from which Francisco de Montejo and many of his conquistadors came, as did Hernán Cortés, the conqueror of Mexico. It is therefore possible that one of these conquistadors brought the codex back to Spain; the director of the Museo Arqueológico Nacional named the Cortesianus Codex after Hernán Cortés, supposing that he himself had brought the codex back.\n\nThe Madrid Codex is the longest of the surviving Maya codices. The content of the Madrid Codex mainly consists of almanacs and horoscopes that were used to help Maya priests in the performance of their ceremonies and divinatory rituals. The codex also contains astronomical tables, although less than are found in the other two generally accepted surviving Maya codices. A close analysis of glyphic elements suggests that a number of scribes were involved in its production, perhaps as many as eight or nine, who produced consecutive sections of the manuscript; the scribes were likely to have been members of the priesthood.\n\nSome scholars, such as Michael Coe and Justin Kerr, have suggested that the Madrid Codex dates to after the Spanish conquest but the evidence overwhelmingly favours a pre-conquest date for the document. It is likely that the codex was produced in Yucatán. J. Eric Thompson was of the opinion that the Madrid Codex came from western Yucatán and dated to between 1250 and 1450 AD. Other scholars have expressed a differing opinion, noting that the codex is similar in style to murals found at Chichen Itza, Mayapan and sites on the east coast such as Santa Rita, Tancah and Tulum. Two paper fragments incorporated into the front and last pages of the codex contain Spanish writing, which led Thompson to suggest that a Spanish priest acquired the document at Tayasal in Petén.\n\nThe Paris Codex (also or formerly the Codex Peresianus) contains prophecies for tuns and katuns (see Maya Calendar), as well as a Maya zodiac, and is thus, in both respects, akin to the Books of Chilam Balam. The codex first appeared in 1832 as an acquisition of France's \"Bibliothèque Impériale\" (later the Bibliothèque Nationale, or National Library) in Paris. Three years later the first reproduction drawing of it was prepared for Lord Kingsborough, by his Lombardian artist Agostino Aglio. The original drawing is now lost, but a copy survives among some of Kingsborough's unpublished proof sheets, held in collection at the Newberry Library, Chicago.\n\nAlthough occasionally referred to over the next quarter-century, its permanent rediscovery is attributed to the French orientalist Léon de Rosny, who in 1859 recovered the codex from a basket of old papers sequestered in a chimney corner at the Bibliothèque Nationale where it had lain discarded and apparently forgotten. As a result, it is in very poor condition. It was found wrapped in a paper with the word \"Pérez\" written on it, possibly a reference to the Jose Pérez who had published two brief descriptions of the then-anonymous codex in 1859. De Rosny initially gave it the name \"Codex Peresianus\" (\"Codex Pérez\") after its identifying wrapper, but in due course the codex would be more generally known as the Paris Codex. De Rosny published a facsimile edition of the codex in 1864. It remains in the possession of the Bibliothèque Nationale.\n\nWhile the three codices above were known to scholars since the 19th century, the Grolier Codex only surfaced in the 1970s. The codex, said to have been found in a cave, is really a fragment of 11 pages. As of 2016 it is in Mexico City’s Museo Nacional de Antropología, not on display. Each page shows a hero or god, facing to the left. At the top of each page is a number, and down the left of each page is what appears to be a list of dates. The pages are much less detailed than in the other codices, and hardly provide any information that is not already in the Dresden Codex. \n\nAfter a study was conducted which includes everything from X-rays to UV imaging and microscopic analysis, in 2016 the authenticity of the Grolier Codex was announced.\n\nGiven the rarity and importance of these books, rumors of finding new ones often develop interest. Archaeological excavations of Maya sites have turned up a number of rectangular lumps of plaster and paint flakes, most commonly in elite tombs. These lumps are the remains of codices where all the organic material has rotted away. A few of the more coherent of these lumps have been preserved, with the slim hope that some technique to be developed by future generations of archaeologists may be able to recover some information from these remains of ancient pages. The oldest Maya codices known have been found by archaeologists as mortuary offerings with burials in excavations in Uaxactun, Guaytán in San Agustín Acasaguastlán, and Nebaj in El Quiché, Guatemala, at Altun Ha in Belize and at Copán in Honduras. The six examples of Maya books discovered in excavations date to the Early Classic (Uaxactún and Altun Ha), Late Classic (Nebaj, Copán), and Early Postclassic (Guaytán) periods. Unfortunately, all of them have degraded into unopenable masses or collections of very small flakes and bits of the original texts. Thus it may never be possible to read them.\n\nSince the start of the 20th century, forgeries of varying quality have been produced. Two elaborate early 20th-century forged codices were in the collection of William Randolph Hearst. Although fake codices have seldom fooled serious scholars, the Grolier Codex may be an exception. Its paper seems to be ancient, and the influential Mayanist Michael D. Coe believed the artifact to be genuine, followed in this by Stephen Houston and Karl Taube (all three scholars stemming from Yale); but other eminent Mayanists such as J.E.S. Thompson, Claude Baudez, and Susan Milbrath concluded that its pictures and glyphs are falsifications. They pointed out a long series of inconsistencies and errors in the alleged codex, and drew attention to its art historical improbability and its uselessness for astrological and divinatory purposes. Although their arguments were never effectively countered, no scholarly unanimity has been reached. In September 2016 Coe and other researchers published findings supporting its authenticity; but in an extensive rejoinder (August 2017), Bruce Love concluded that the artefact's authenticity had not been established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40578137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40578137", "title": "Melvin Rader", "text": "Melvin Rader\n\nMelvin Miller Rader (8 November 1903 – 14 June 1981) was an author and professor of philosophy at the University of Washington for 51 years, and an outspoken advocate of civil rights. He taught ethics, aesthetics and political philosophy. In 1948, he was accused of being a communist by the Canwell Committee (the Joint Legislative Fact Finding Committee on Un-American Activities), and was later exonerated in 1951 by Attorney General, Smith Troy. Ed Guthman, a Seattle Times investigative reporter, received a Pulitzer Prize for his reporting of the events. In 2009, an endowment fund was created in Rader's name at the University of Washington to fund philosophy students engaged in social justice work.\n"}
{"id": "22837419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22837419", "title": "Muhammad ibn Muhammad Tabrizi", "text": "Muhammad ibn Muhammad Tabrizi\n\nAbu Abd Allah Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr ibn Muhammad Tabrizi was a thirteenth-century Persian Muslim writer, known for his Arabic commentary on the twenty five propositions at the beginning of Book II of the Jewish philosopher Maimonides's \"Guide for the Perplexed\", on which Maimonides then based his proof of the existence, unity and incorporeality of God. The propositions, derived from Aristotle's \"Physics\" and \"Metaphysics\", were merely summarised by Maimonides; Tabrizi gives a detailed discussion of them, based on the work of Arabic authors. It is the earliest known commentary on a part of the \"Guide\".\n\nTabrizi's book was later translated into a strongly Arabicised Hebrew by Isaac ben Nathan of Cordoba. This translation formed the main basis of Hasdai Crescas's review in \"Or Adonai\" of the various demonstrations proposed for Maimonides's principles, prior to his embarking on a thorough critique of their inadequacies; it was also used by Moses ben Joshua of Narbonne. The translation was probably made in Majorca around 1347; it was printed in Ferrara in 1556. A second translation, into a more native idiomatic Hebrew, also exists in manuscript. (Paris, Bibliothèque Nationale, cod. héb., 974).\n\nTabrizi evidently thought highly of Maimonides. His book concludes \"\"The author of these Propositions is the chief whose sceptre is \"wisdom\" and whose throne is \"understanding,\" the Israelite prince, that has benefited his nation and all those who love God, etc. Moses ben Maimon ben Ebed-elohim, the Israelite... May God lead us to the truth. Amen!\"\" A remark in the introduction to the commentary suggests that Tabrizi intended to prepare a commentary on the whole \"Guide\". However, some suggest that he may not have had access to the \"Guide\" in its entirety: comments about Maimonides's view of the human soul are badly flawed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57147939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57147939", "title": "Non-science", "text": "Non-science\n\nA non-science is an area of study that is not scientific, especially one that is not a natural science or a social science that is an object of scientific inquiry. In this model, history, art, and religion are all examples of non-sciences.\n\nSince the 17th century, some writers have used the word \"science\" to exclude some areas of studies, such as the arts and the liberal arts. The word \"nonscience\", to describe non-scientific academic disciplines, was first used in the middle of the 19th century.\n\nIn some cases, it can be difficult to identify exact boundaries between science and non-science. The demarcation problem is the study of the difficulties in determining whether certain fields of study, near the boundaries of science and non-science, should be considered as one or the other. No single test has yet been devised that can clearly separate science from non-science, but some factors, taken as a whole and evaluated over time, are commonly used. In the view of Thomas Kuhn, these factors include the desire of scientists to investigate a question as if it were a puzzle. Kuhn's view of science is also focused on the process of scientific inquiry, rather than the result.\n\nBoundary-work is the process of advocating for a desired outcome in the process of classifying fields of study that are near the borders. The rewards associated with winning a particular classification suggest that the boundary between science and non-science is socially constructed and ideologically motivated rather than representing a stark natural difference between science and non-science. The belief that scientific knowledge (e.g., biology) is more valuable than other forms of knowledge (e.g., ethics) is called \"scientism\".\n\nNon-science includes all areas of study that are not science. Non-science encompasses all of the humanities, including:\n\n\nThe philosopher Martin Mahner proposed calling these academic fields the \"parasciences\", to distinguish them from disreputable forms of non-science, such as pseudoscience.\n\nNon-sciences offer information about the meaning of life, human values, the human condition, and ways of interacting with other people, including studies of cultures, morality and ethics.\n\nPhilosophers disagree about whether areas of study involving abstract concepts, such as pure mathematics, are scientific or non-scientific.\n\nInterdisciplinary studies may cover knowledge-generating work that includes both scientific and non-scientific studies. Archaeology is an example of a field that borrows from both the natural sciences and history.\n\nFields of inquiry may change status over time. For many centuries, alchemy was accepted as scientific: it produced some useful information, and it supported experiments and open inquiry in the pursuit of understanding the physical world. Since the 20th century, it has been considered a pseudoscience. Modern chemistry, which developed out of alchemy, is considered a major natural science.\n\nSome philosophers, such as Paul Feyerabend, object to the effort to classify knowledge into science and non-science. The distinction is artificial, as there is little or nothing that ties together all of the bodies of knowledge that are called \"sciences\".\n\nSome systems of organizing knowledge separate systematic knowledge from non-systematic methods of knowing or learning something, such as personal experiences, intuition, and innate knowledge. Wissenschaft is a broad concept that encompasses reliable knowledge without making a distinction between subject area. The \"Wissenschaft\" concept is more useful than the distinction between science and non-science in distinguishing between knowledge and pseudo-knowledge, as the errors made in all forms of pseudo-scholarship, from pseudohistory to pseudoscience, are similar. This \"Wissenschaft\" concept is used in the 2006 list of Fields of Science and Technology published by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which defines \"science and technology\" as encompassing all humanistic disciplines, including religion and fine art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "421116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421116", "title": "Norbert Elias", "text": "Norbert Elias\n\nNorbert Elias (; 22 June 1897 – 1 August 1990) was a German sociologist of Jewish descent, who later became a British citizen. He is especially famous for his theory of civilizing/decivilizing processes.\n\nElias was born on 22 June 1897 in Breslau (today: Wrocław) in Prussia's Silesia Province to Hermann and Sophie Gallewski. His father was a businessman in the textile industry. After passing the abitur in 1915 he volunteered for the German army in World War I and was employed as a telegrapher, first at the Eastern front, then at the Western front. After suffering a nervous breakdown in 1917, he was declared unfit for service and was posted to Breslau as a medical orderly. The same year, Elias began studying philosophy, psychology and medicine at the University of Breslau, in addition spending a term each at the universities of Heidelberg (where he attended lectures by Karl Jaspers) and Freiburg in 1919 and 1920. He quit medicine in 1919 after passing the preliminary examination \"(Physikum)\". To finance his studies after his father's fortune had been reduced by hyperinflation, he took up a job as the head of the export department in a local hardware factory 1922. In 1924, he graduated with a doctoral dissertation in philosophy entitled \"Idee und Individuum\" (\"Idea and Individual\") supervised by Richard Hönigswald, a representative of Neo-Kantianism. Disappointed about the absence of the social aspect from Neo-Kantianism, which had led to a serious dispute with his supervisor about his dissertation, Elias decided to turn to sociology for his further studies.\n\nDuring his Breslau years, until 1925, Elias was deeply involved in the German Zionist movement, and acted as one of the leading intellectuals within the German-Jewish youth movement \"Blau-Weiss\" (Blue-White). During these years he got acquainted with other young Zionists like Erich Fromm, Leo Strauss, Leo Löwenthal and Gershom Scholem. In 1925, Elias moved to Heidelberg, where Alfred Weber accepted him as a candidate for a habilitation (second book project) on the development of modern science, entitled \"Die Bedeutung der Florentiner Gesellschaft und Kultur für die Entstehung der Wissenschaft\" (\"The Significance of Florentine Society and Culture for the Development of Science\"). In 1930 Elias chose to cancel this project and followed Karl Mannheim to become his assistant at the University of Frankfurt. However, after the Nazi take-over in early 1933, Mannheim's sociological institute was forced to close. The already submitted habilitation thesis entitled \"Der höfische Mensch\" (\"The Man of the Court\") was never formally accepted and not published until 1969 in a much elaborated form as \"Die höfische Gesellschaft\" (\"The Court Society\"). In 1933, Elias fled to Paris. His elderly parents remained in Breslau, where his father died in 1940; on 30 August 1942 his mother was deported to Theresienstadt, and on 29 September transferred to and killed in Treblinka, dates and places Elias himself never got to know.\nDuring his two years in Paris, Elias worked as a private scholar supported by a scholarship from the Amsterdam Steunfonds (Prof. Frijda's benefit fund) and tried to gain some additional income by organizing a workshop for the production of wooden children's toys. In 1935, he moved on to Great Britain, where he worked on his magnum opus, \"The Civilizing Process\", until 1939, now supported by a scholarship from a relief organization for Jewish refugees. In 1939, he met up with his former friend and supervisor Mannheim at the London School of Economics, where he obtained a position as Senior Research Assistant. In 1940, the LSE was evacuated to Cambridge, but when an invasion of Britain by German forces appeared imminent, Elias was detained at internment camps in Liverpool and on the Isle of Man for eight months, on account of his being German – an \"enemy alien\". During his internment he organized political lectures and staged a drama he had written himself, \"Die Ballade vom armen Jakob\" (\"The Ballad of Poor Jacob\") with a musical score by Hans Gál (eventually published in 1987).\n\nUpon his release in 1941, he returned to Cambridge. Towards the end of the war, he worked for British intelligence, investigating hardened Nazis among German prisoners of war (see his essay \"The breakdown of civilisation\", in \"Studies on the Germans\"). He taught evening classes for the Workers' Educational Association (the adult education organization), and later evening extension courses in sociology, psychology, economics and economic history at the University of Leicester. He also held occasional lectureships at other institutions of higher learning. In collaboration with a friend from Frankfurt days, the psychoanalyst S. H. Foulkes, he laid the theoretical foundations of Group Analysis, an important school of therapy, and co-founded the Group Analytic Society in 1952. He himself trained and worked as a group therapist. On Febr. 22, 1952 he was naturalized as a British citizen.\n\nIn 1954 – at the very late age of 57 – he at last gained his first secure academic post, at University College Leicester (which soon became the University of Leicester), first as Lecturer and later as Reader in Sociology. Along with his friend Ilya Neustadt, he made a major contribution to the development of the University's Department of Sociology, which became one of the largest and most influential departments in the United Kingdom. He retired in 1962, but continued to teach graduate students in Leicester until the mid-1970s. Among subsequently famous sociologists whom Neustadt and Elias appointed as colleagues at Leicester, were John H. Goldthorpe, Anthony Giddens, Martin Albrow, Sheila Allen, Joe and Olive Banks, Richard Brown, Mary McIntosh, Nicos Mouzelis and Sami Zubaida and Keith Hopkins. (Hopkins was subsequently Professor of Ancient History at Cambridge: his appointment to teach sociology in Leicester is one sign of the very broad conception Elias and Neustadt had of the discipline of sociology.) Students in the department included John Eldridge, Chris Bryant, Chris Rojek, Paul Hirst, Graeme Salaman and Bryan Wilson. From 1962 to 1964, Elias taught as Professor of Sociology at the University of Ghana in Legon near Accra. After his return to Europe in 1965, he spent much time as visiting professor in various German and Dutch universities, and from 1978 based himself in Amsterdam.\n\nHis reputation and popularity grew immensely after the republication of \"The Civilising Process\" in 1969. From 1978 to 1984 he worked at the Center for Interdisciplinary Research at the University of Bielefeld from which he received an honorary doctorate in 1980. Elias was the first ever laureate of both the Theodor W. Adorno Prize (1977) and the European Amalfi Prize for Sociology and Social Sciences (1987). In 1986 the Große Verdienstkreuz of the German Federal Republic was awarded to him, and on his 90th birthday he was appointed Commander in the Order of Orange-Nassau by the Dutch queen. By 1998 an International Sociological Association worldwide survey of sociologists ranked \"On the Process of Civilization\" (revised later title) seventh among the most important books in sociology in the twentieth century. In 1990 he collected himself the Nonino prize for a 'Maestro del nostro tempo' in Italy. Outside his sociological work he always also wrote poetry.\n\nElias died at his home in Amsterdam on 1 August 1990. In September 2017, a bridge in the Vondelpark, not too far from where he lived, was named after him. In Almere city a street in the 'sustainable' sociologists' quarter also bears his name.\n\nElias' theory focused on the relationship between power, behavior, emotion, and knowledge over time. He significantly shaped what is called process or figurational sociology. Due to historical circumstances, Elias had long remained a marginal author, until being rediscovered by a new generation of scholars in the 1970s, when he eventually became one of the most influential sociologists in the history of the field. Interest in his work can be partly attributed to the fact that his concept of large social figurations or networks of interdependencies between people explains the emergence and function of large societal structures without neglecting the aspect of individual agency. In the 1960s and 1970s, the overemphasis of structure over agency was heavily criticized about the then-dominant school of structural functionalism.\n\nElias' most famous work is \"Über den Prozess der Zivilisation\", published in English as \"The Civilizing Process\" (or, more accurately in the Collected Works edition – see below – as \"On the Process of Civilisation\"). Originally published in German, in two volumes, in 1939, it was virtually ignored until its republication in 1969, when its first volume was also translated into English. The first volume traces the historical developments of the European \"habitus\", or \"second nature,\" the particular individual psychic structures molded by social attitudes. Elias traced how post-medieval European standards regarding violence, sexual behaviour, bodily functions, table manners and forms of speech were gradually transformed by increasing thresholds of shame and repugnance, working outward from a nucleus in court etiquette. The internalized \"self-restraint\" imposed by increasingly complex networks of social connections developed the \"psychological\" self-perceptions that Freud recognized as the \"super-ego.\" The second volume of \"The Civilizing Process\" looks into the causes of these processes and finds them in the increasingly centralized Early Modern state and the increasingly differentiated and interconnected web of society.\n\nWhen Elias' work found a larger audience in the 1960s, at first his analysis of the process was misunderstood as an extension of discredited \"social Darwinism,\" the idea of upward \"progress\" was dismissed by reading it as consecutive history rather than a metaphor for a social process.\n\nElias came to write both in English and German. Almost all his work on the sociology of knowledge and the sciences (much of which would more conventionally be called \"philosophy of science\") was written in English, as was his seminal work in the sociology of sport, collected in \"The Quest for Excitement\", written by Norbert Elias with Eric Dunning, and published in 1986. Bielefeld University's Center for Sociology of Development in 1984 invited Norbert Elias to preside over a gathering of a host of his internationally distinguished fellows who in turn wanted to review and discuss Elias' most interesting theories on civilising processes in person.\n\nIn the same year, Elias established the Norbert Elias Foundation to administer his legacy after his death. The current members of the board of the foundation are Johan Goudsblom (Amsterdam), Hermann Korte (Münster) and Stephen Mennell (Dublin).\n\nUntil he retired from the University of Leicester in 1962, Elias had published only one book, \"Über den Prozess der Zivilisation\", and no more than a handful of articles. By the time of his death in 1990, he had published 15 books and something approaching 150 essays. He had always \"written\" a great deal, but found it very difficult ever to be satisfied with the results, and was very reluctant to release his work for publication. Still more curious, although he was such a perfectionist in his writing, he could rarely be persuaded to undertake such mundane tasks as reading and correcting the proofs. Thus, although his German works were well translated into English (for the most part by Edmund Jephcott), the original English editions contain many errors that could have been corrected by thorough proof-reading. In the early twenty-first century, therefore, the Norbert Elias Foundation entered into agreement with UCD Press, Dublin, to publish new scholarly editions of Elias's work, running to 18 volumes.\n\nThe new editions of Elias's works have been carefully revised, cross-referenced and annotated (with notes especially about many historical people and events to which Elias makes reference), with a view to making them far more accessible to the reader. Especially important are the three volumes of Elias's collected essays, many of which have not previously been published in English – or were published in such a scattered way or in obscure places that they were hitherto little known. (Other essays can also be found in \"Early Writings, Mozart \"and other volumes.)\n\nThe 18 volumes are as follows:\n\n1 \"Early Writings\", edited by Richard Kilminster (Dublin: UCD Press, 2006).\n\n2 \"The Court Society\", edited by Stephen Mennell (Dublin: UCD Press, 2006).\n\n3 \"On the Process of Civilisation\" [note new title], edited by Stephen Mennell, Eric Dunning, Johan Goudsblom and Richard Kilminster (Dublin: UCD Press, 2012).\n\n4 \"The Established and the Outsiders\", edited by Cas Wouters (Dublin: UCD Press, 2008).\n\n5 \"What is Sociology?\" edited by Artur Bogner, Katie Liston and Stephen Mennell (Dublin: UCD Press,2012).\n\n6 \"The Loneliness of the Dying\" and \"Humana Conditio\", edited by Alan and Brigitte Scott (Dublin: UCD Press, 2009).\n\n7 \"Quest for Excitement: Sport and Leisure in the Civilising Process\", by Norbert Elias and Eric Dunning, edited by Eric Dunning (Dublin: UCD Press, 2008).\n\n8 \"Involvement and Detachment\", edited by Stephen Quilley (Dublin: UCD Press, 2007).\n\n9 \"An Essay on Time\", edited by Steven Loyal and Stephen Mennell (Dublin: UCD Press, 2007).\n\n10 \"The Society of Individuals\", edited by Robert van Krieken (Dublin: UCD Press, 2010)\n\n11 \"Studies on the Germans\" [note new title], edited by Stephen Mennell and Eric Dunning (Dublin: UCD Press, 2013).\n\n12 \"Mozart, and Other Essays on Courtly Culture\", edited by Eric Baker and Stephen Mennell (Dublin: UCD Press, 2010).\n\n13 \"The Symbol Theory\", edited by Richard Kilminster (Dublin: UCD Press, 2011).\n\n14 \"Essays I: On the Sociology of Knowledge and the Sciences\", edited by Richard Kilminster and StephenMennell (Dublin: UCD Press, 2009).\n\n15 \"Essays II: On Civilising Processes, State Formation and National Identity\", edited by Richard Kilminster and Stephen Mennell (Dublin: UCD Press, 2008).\n\n16 \"Essays III: On Sociology and the Humanities\", edited by Richard Kilminster and Stephen Mennell (Dublin: UCD Press, 2009).\n\n\"Forthcoming volumes\"\n\n17 \"Interviews and Autobiographical Reflections\", edited by Edmund Jephcott, Richard Kilminster, Katie Liston and Stephen Mennell (Dublin: UCD Press, October 2013).\n\n18 \"Supplements and Index to the Collected Works\" [includes major unpublished essays on Freud and on Lévy-Bruhl], edited by Stephen Mennell, Marc Joly and Katie Liston (Dublin: UCD Press, forthcoming Spring 2014).\n\n\"Supplementary volume\"\n\n\"The Genesis of the Naval Profession\", edited by René Moelker and Stephen Mennell (Dublin: UCD Press, 2007).\n\nBooks (in chronological order, by date of original publication):\n\n\nSee also:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42363307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42363307", "title": "Paul B. Preciado", "text": "Paul B. Preciado\n\nPaul B. Preciado, (born in 1970 in Burgos, Spain) is a contemporary writer, philosopher and curator whose work focuses on applied and theoretical topics relating to identity, gender, pornography, architecture and sexuality. Eight years ago, Paul began a process of \"slow transition\" where he started the process of becoming a male, physically. From this point on he has considered himself transgender as well as a feminist. \n\nPreciado came to The New School in New York from Spain on a Fulbright scholarship to get an MA in Philosophy. Jacques Derrida and Agnes Heller became mentors to Preciado. Despite taking a short gap during the spring of Preciado's first year at The New School, Preciado maintained close relations with many professors. In fact, in 1999, Derrida, one of Preciado's professors, invited Preciado to teach a seminar in Paris on forgiveness and the gift during transformation. After transitioning into his professional career, Preciado and his new found partner, Alberto Perez, began to hold empowerment forums in impoverished communities. Later, he came back to the United States to complete his PhD in Philosophy and Theory of Architecture at Princeton University, writing a dissertation called, \"Pornotopía: Architecture and Sexuality in Playboy During the Cold War\" in 2010.\n\nPreciado has been professor of Political History of the Body, Gender Theory, and History of Performance at Université Paris VIII and was the director of the Independent Studies Program (PEI) of the Museum of Contemporary Art of Barcelona (MACBA).. He is currently Curator of Public Programs of documenta 14, Kassel and Athens.\n\nSince January 2013, Preciado has regularly contributed to French newspaper \"Libération\"′s website Liberation.fr, in a column having gender, sexuality, love and biopower as recurrent themes.\n\nKnown originally as a female writer and identified as a lesbian, Preciado announced in 2014 that he was transitioning and, in January 2015, changed his first name to \"Paul\".Preciado dated French writer-director Virginie Despentes from 2005 to 2014.\n\nIn 2008, the book \"Testo Junkie: sex, drugs, and biopolitics in the pharmacopornographic era\", relating Preciado's experience on self-administering testosterone, was published in Spain (as \"Testo yonqui\") and in France. The work was later translated into English in 2013.\n\nPreciado prefaces the book, stating \"This book is not a memoir\" but \"a body-essay\". Preciado takes a topical pharmaceutical, Testogel, as a homage to French writer Guillaume Dustan, a close gay friend who contracted AIDS and died of an accidental overdose of a medication he was taking. Preciado investigates the politicization of the body by what he terms \"pharmacopornographic capitalism\".\n\nPreciado described the act of taking testosterone as both political and performance, aiming to undo a notion of gender encoded in one's own body by a system of sexuality and contraception.\n\nIn the work, Preciado describes and analyses the changes provoked by the testosterone from the point of view of the relationship with Virginie Despentes (referred to as \"VD\" in the book). Testo Junkie also deals with the political aspect of other drugs that transform the body, such as birth control, Viagra, drugs used in doping, Prozac, and estrogen.\n\nAccording to Preciado, all sexual bodies become \"intelligible\" according to a common \"pharmacopornographic technology\". There is no such thing as gender without technology. Technology is understood in large sense, from writing technologies, to bio-chemical and image production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "434282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=434282", "title": "People's jury", "text": "People's jury\n\nA people's jury, or citizen's jury, is an institution used by a democratically elected body to resolve a divisive issue, in order to reach a consensus. An example, which occurred in Oxfordshire in the late 1990s, was the use of a people's jury to resolve where to site a waste recycling plant. A group of twelve people was selected as though they were going to belong to a legal jury. They were then taken on a guided tour of the county and introduced to experts in various fields. After they had been given the opportunity to perform sufficient research, they were asked to choose the site to use.\n\nWhilst the idea of people's juries has been hailed as being of great benefit in a democracy, it has also been pointed out that the jury's vote is not likely to be representative of the views of the population in general. It is argued that because a people's jury is making an informed judgement, it is unlike a referendum, where the views of the most uninformed or ill-informed people carry equal weight.\n\n"}
{"id": "48350045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48350045", "title": "Person-affecting view", "text": "Person-affecting view\n\nA person-affecting or person-based view (also called person-affecting restriction) in population ethics captures the intuition that an act can only be bad if it is bad \"for\" someone. Similarly something can be good only if it is good \"for\" someone. Therefore, according to standard person-affecting views, there is no moral obligation to create people nor moral good in creating people because nonexistence means \"there is never a person who could have benefited from being created\". Whether one accepts person-affecting views greatly influences to what extent shaping the far future is important (since there may be greatly more humans existing in the future than has ever existed). Person-affecting views are also important in considering human population control.\n\nA weaker form of person-affecting views states that an act can only be bad if it is bad for some existing or future person.\n\nPerson-affecting views can be seen as a revision of total utilitarianism in which the \"scope of the aggregation\" is changed from all individuals who would exist to a subset of those individuals (namely those individuals who already exist).\n\nSome philosophers who have discussed person-affecting views include Derek Parfit, John Broome, Larry Temkin, Tatjana Višak, Gustaf Arrhenius, Nick Beckstead, and Hilary Greaves.\n\nThere is no single \"person-affecting view\" but rather a variety of formulations all involving the idea of something being good or bad \"for\" someone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34650373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34650373", "title": "Robert Desgabets", "text": "Robert Desgabets\n\nRobert Desgabets (; 1610–1678) was a French Cartesian philosopher and Benedictine prior, born in Ancemont. He had published two book-length philosophical works in his lifetime, \"Considérations sur l'état présent de la controverse touchant le T. S. Sacrement de l'autel\" (\"Considerations on the present state of the controversy concerning the Eucharist\") in 1671 and \"Critique de la critique de la recherche de la verité\" (\"Critique of the critique of the search for truth\") in 1675.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4336558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4336558", "title": "Securitization (international relations)", "text": "Securitization (international relations)\n\nSecuritization in international relations is the process of state actors transforming subjects into matters of \"security\": an extreme version of politicization that enables extraordinary means to be used in the name of security. Issues that become securitized do not necessarily represent issues that are essential to the objective survival of a state, but rather represent issues where someone was successful in constructing an issue into an existential problem.\n\nSecuritization theorists assert that successfully securitized subjects receive disproportionate amounts of attention and resources compared to unsuccessfully securitized subjects causing more human damage. A common example used by theorists is how terrorism is a top priority in security discussions, even though people are much more likely to be killed by automobiles or preventable diseases than from terrorism.\n\nSecuritization studies aims to understand \"who securitizes (Securitizing actor), on what issues (threats), for whom (referent object), why, with what results, and not least, under what conditions.\"\n\nWithin international relations, the concept is connected with the Copenhagen School and is seen as a synthesis of constructivist and classical political realism in its approach. The term was coined by Ole Wæver in 1993, but seems to have become commonplace, at least within constructivist studies of international relations.\n\nSecuritization is a process-oriented conception of security, which stands in contrast to materialist approaches of classical security studies. Classical approaches of security focus on the material dispositions of the threat including distribution of power, military capabilities, and polarity, whereas securitization examines how a certain issue is transformed by an actor into a matter of security in order to allow for the use of extraordinary measures.\n\nMoreover, the securitization act, to be successful, must be accepted by the audience, regardless of the subject matter being a real threat. As Thierry Braspenning-Balzacq puts it: \"securitization is a rule-governed practice, the success of which does not necessarily depend on the existence of a real threat, but on the discursive ability to effectively endow a development with such a specific complexion\". The audience may take several forms including technical, bureaucratic, public, and policymaking, and different audiences can perform different functions by accepting a securitization, as has been explored by Roe.\n\nAll securitization acts involve four components:\n\nThat a given subject is securitized does not necessarily mean that the subject is of objective essence for the survival of a given state, but means merely that someone has successfully constructed something as an existential problem. However, Uriel Abulof argues that empirical studies on securitization have been \"insufficiently attentive to societies engulfed in profound existential uncertainty about their own survival.\" Taking Israel's \"demographic demon\" as a case in point, Abulof suggests that such societies are immersed in \"deep securitization\", whereby \"widespread public discourses explicitly frame threats as probable, protracted, and endangering the very existence of the nation/state.\" Principally, anyone can succeed in constructing something as a security problem through speech acts. The ability to effectively securitize a given subject is, however, highly dependent on both the status of a given actor and whether similar issues are generally perceived to be security threats.\n\nSecuritization theorists argue that a subject that has been successfully securitized will receive disproportionate attention and resources in comparison with subjects that have not been securitized, even when these other subjects actually cause more harm.traffic incidents cause on average 150,000 fatalities a year in 56 states ... people tend to accept this as a mere fact and do not securitize this by demanding extraordinary measures. It is dealt with as a concern for ordinary politics and legal regulations. There is a tendency to individualize the casualties ... Terrorist attacks caused in the years 1994 to 2004 worldwide average 5,312 fatalities per year. That is less than 5% of the numbers of persons killed annually in traffic accidents in UNECE countries alone. Nevertheless, it is a top priority in security discourses.If a subject is successfully securitized, then it is possible to legitimize extraordinary means to solve a perceived problem. This could include declaring a state of emergency or martial law, mobilizing the military or attacking another country. Furthermore, if something is successfully labelled as a security problem, then the subject can be considered to be an illegitimate subject for political or academic debate. According to an overview of the field by Roe, securitization theorists tend to treat securitization as a negative process that undermines democratic processes and diminishes necessary scrutiny that would otherwise be focused on political elites. \n\nIn \"\", Barry Buzan, Ole Wæver, and Jaap de Wilde work with five political sectors in which a securitization could take place:\n\nHowever, a securitization could easily involve more than one of these sectors. In the case of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, one could say that the conflict was securitized militarily; weapons of mass destruction was one reason for the invasion. However, the war was also securitized as a societal problem; human rights in Saddam Hussein's Iraq was mentioned in the public rationale.\n\nAnother example for securitized sectors are immigration and refugee issues in the United States and in Europe. Concerns of terrorist infiltration are regularly cited as grounds for the tight control of borders. Because it is easier to securitize an issue following the September 11 attacks, this concern for safety and security has taken attention away from the economic factors that have always been at play in international migration. In addition, also in migrants' countries of origin, diaspora, emigration, and citizenship issues can be securitized.\n\nSince securitized subjects can receive a disproportionate amounts of attention and resources compared to unsuccessfully securitized subjects, some political strategists suggest that existing public policy issues can find more clout and attention among the public if advocates on these subjects succeed in securitizing them.\n\nFor example, theorists suggest that advocates of space exploration could achieve more success by convincing state actors of the merits of their proposals around the rubric of security rather than science: that space exploration could be framed around how it protects humanity from looming existential threats such as meteorites, rather than around how it helps advance scientific knowledge.\n\nSecuritization as a \"school\" of international relations has been criticized for its lack of practical usefulness. Unlike other schools of international relations, such as liberalism or realism, which can provide a framework or basis for understanding how to conduct international diplomacy, securitization has been criticized for being a theory that is more akin to an interesting observation, rather than a theory which can be used in practical ways by political actors. Critics argue that pointing out the irrationality of a successfully securitized issue does little to change its political dynamics, because as long as an issue remains successfully securitized, political actors will still be compelled to deal with it in the ways that its securitization demands.\n"}
{"id": "35495027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35495027", "title": "Shamanism: Archaic Techniques of Ecstasy", "text": "Shamanism: Archaic Techniques of Ecstasy\n\nShamanism: Archaic Techniques of Ecstasy is a historical study of the different forms of shamanism around the world written by the Romanian historian of religion Mircea Eliade. It was first published in France by Librarie Payot under the French title of \"Le Chamanisme et les techniques archaïques de l'extase\" in 1951. The book was subsequently translated into English by Willard R. Trask and published by Princeton University Press in 1964.\n\nAt the time of the book's writing, Eliade had earned a PhD studying Hinduism in India before becoming involved with far right politics in his native Romania. After the rise of the communist government, he fled to Paris, France in 1945, where he took up an academic position and began studying shamanism, authoring several academic papers on the subject before publishing his book.\n\nThe first half of \"Shamanism\" deals with the various different elements of shamanic practice, such as the nature of initiatory sickness and dreams, the method for obtaining shamanic powers, the role of shamanic initiation and the symbolism of the shaman's costume and drum. The book's second half looks at the development of shamanism in each region of the world where it is found, including Central and North Asia, the Americas, Southeastern Asia and Oceania and also Tibet, China and the Far East. Eliade argues that all of these shamanisms must have had a common source as the original religion of humanity in the Palaeolithic.\n\nOn publication, Eliade's book was recognised as a seminal and authoritative study on the subject of shamanism. In later decades, as anthropological and historical scholarship increased and improved, elements of the book came under increasing scrutiny, as did Eliade's argument that there was a global phenomenon that could be termed \"shamanism\" or that all shamanisms had a common source. His book also proved to be a significant influence over the Neoshamanic movement which developed in the western world in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nMircea Eliade was born in Bucharest, Romania in 1907. Attending the Spiru Haret National College, he subsequently studied at the University of Bucharest's Faculty of Philosophy and Letters from 1925 through to 1928. Traveling to India to study the country's religions, in 1933 he received his PhD for a thesis devoted to a discussion of Yoga. Writing for the nationalist newspaper \"Cuvântul\", he spoke out against antisemitism but became associated with the Iron Guard, a Romanian fascist group. Arrested for his involvement in the far right, following his release in 1940 he gained employment as a cultural attaché to both the United Kingdom and then Portugal. Following the Second World War, Eliade moved to Paris, France, fearing the rise of a communist government in Romania. Here, he married for a second time, to the Romanian exile Christinel Cotescu.\n\nTogether with Emil Cioran and other Romanian expatriates, Eliade rallied with the former diplomat Alexandru Busuioceanu, helping him publicize anti-communist opinion to the Western European public. In 1947, he was facing material constraints, and Ananda Coomaraswamy found him a job as a French-language teacher in the United States, at a school in Arizona; the arrangement ended upon Coomaraswamy's death in September. Beginning in 1948, he wrote for the journal \"Critique\", edited by French thinker Georges Bataille. The following year, he went on a visit to Italy, where he wrote the first 300 pages of his novel \"Noaptea de Sânziene\" (he visited the country a third time in 1952). He collaborated with Carl Jung and the \"Eranos\" circle after Henry Corbin recommended him in 1949, and wrote for the \"Antaios\" magazine (edited by Ernst Jünger). In 1950, Eliade began attending \"Eranos\" conferences, meeting Jung, Olga Fröbe-Kapteyn, Gershom Scholem and Paul Radin. He described \"Eranos\" as \"one of the most creative cultural experiences of the modern Western world.\"\n\nWorking from France, Eliade had begun to study shamanism from a global perspective, publishing three papers on the subject: \"Le Probléme du chamanisme\" in the \"Revue de l'histoire des religions\" journal (1946), \"Shamanism\" in \"Forgotten Religions\", an anthology edited by Vergilius Ferm (1949), and \"Einführende Betrachtungen über den Schamanismus\" in the \"Paideuma\" journal (1951). He had also lectured on the subject in March 1950 at both the University of Rome and the Instituto Italiano per il Medio ed Estremo Oriente.\n\nIn his foreword, Eliade explains the approach that he has taken in the book, noting that his intention is to situate world shamanism within the larger history of religion. Disputing any claims that shamanism is a result of mental illness, he highlights the benefits that further sociological and ethnographic research could provide before explaining the role of a historian of religions. Describing shamanism as \"precisely one of the archaic techniques of ecstasy\", he proclaims that it is \"at once mysticism, magic and \"religion\" in the broadest sense of the term.\"\n\nChapter one, \"General Considerations. Recruiting Methods. Shamanism and Mystical Vocation\", details Eliade's exploration of the etymology and terminological usage of the word \"shamanism\".\n\nWithin his study of the subject, Eliade proposed several different definitions of the word \"shamanism\". The first of these was that shamanism simply constituted a \"technique of ecstasy\", and in Eliade's opinion, this was the \"least hazardous\" definition.\n\nDiscussing the Norse practice of \"Seiðr\" in her book \"Gods and Myths of Northern Europe\" (1964), the academic Hilda Ellis Davidson described Eliade's French-language book as the \"fullest recent study of shamanism\".\n\nFurther criticism of some of Eliade's positions came from the English historian Ronald Hutton of the University of Bristol in his book, \"Shamans: Siberian Spirituality and the Western Imagination\" (2001). Hutton took issue with Eliade's claim that divination only played a minor role in Siberian shamanism, claiming that Eliade had produced no data to substantiate such an assertion, and that the ethnographic evidence actually indicated that the opposite was true. He saw this as part of a wider problem whereby Eliade had ignored certain \"varieties of native practitioner\" from his \"chosen image of shaman\" and had been \"intent on generalizations.\" Hutton also argued that Eliade's description of traditional Siberian cosmology oversimplified great diversity among the various Siberian indigenous groups and that Eliade's claims that Siberian shamanism revolved around a vision of death and rebirth was similarly erroneous.\n\nFor the 2004 English-language re-publication of \"Shamanism\" by Princeton University Press, a new foreword was commissioned from the academic Indologist Wendy Doniger. At the time, Doniger held the position of Mircea Eliade Professor of the History of Religions at the University of Chicago. Having been a personal friend and colleague of his for many years, Doniger used her foreword to defend him from accusations that he was either a fascist or an anti-semite, and evaluated his work in \"Shamanism\". Drawing comparisons with anthropologist James Frazer and philologist Max Müller, she accepted that while he advanced the knowledge of his time \"within a body of assumptions that we no longer accept\", his work inspired \"an entire generation\" of scholars and amateurs in the study of religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "317325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317325", "title": "Shen Buhai", "text": "Shen Buhai\n\nThe Chinese statesman Shen Buhai (; c. 400c. 337) was Chancellor of the Han state under Marquis Zhao of Han for fifteen years, from 354 BC to 337 BC. A contemporary of syncretist Shi Jiao and Legalist Shang Yang, he was born in the State of Zheng, and was likely a minor official there. After Han conquered Zheng in 375 BC, he rose up in the ranks of the Han officialdom, dividing up its territories and successfully reforming it. Though not dealing in penal law himself, his administrative innovations would be taken into \"Chinese Legalist\" statecraft by Han Fei, his most famous successor, and Shen Buhai's book most resembles the Han Feizi (though more conciliatory). He died of natural causes while in office.\n\nThough Chinese administration cannot be traced to any one individual, emphasizing a merit system figures like 4th century BC reformer Shen Buhai may have had more influence than any other, and might be considered its founder, if not valuable as a rare pre-modern example of abstract theory of administration. Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel sees in Shen Buhai the \"seeds of the civil service examination\", and, if one wished to exaggerate, the first political scientist, while the correlation between Shen's conception of the inactive (Wu-wei) ruler and the handling of claims and titles likely informed the Taoist conception of the formless Tao (name that cannot be named) that \"gives rise to the ten thousand things.\" He is famous for the dictum \"The Sage ruler relies on standards and does not rely on wisdom; he relies on technique, not on persuasions.\"\nShen was known for his cryptic writing style. Because the writings attributed to him appear to be pre-Han dynasty, he is credited with writing a now extinct two chapter text, the \"Shenzi\" (申子), which is concerned almost exclusively with the philosophy of governmental administration. In 141 BC, under the influence of Confucians, the reign of Emperor Wu of Han saw Shen Buhai's name was listed with other legalist thinkers whose ideas were officially banned from the government; from that point on, scholarship Shen's ideas went into a steep decline, despite continued use of his foundational ideas in administration (much of which, consisting of skill and report checking, would be unavoidable).\n\nWidely read in Han times, in comparison to the still-complete Han Feizi the Shenzi was listed as lost by the Liang dynasty (502-556). Appearing again in the bibliographies of both Tang histories, it's only traces remain as quotes in surviving texts in \"Qunshu Zhiyao\", compiled in 631, and \"Yilin\", compiled around 786. During the Qing Dynasty, three major attempts were made to reconstruct the contents of the work, the last mention occurring in 1616, and in a library catalogue from 1700. Its fragments were re-assembled by Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel in Shen Pu-Hai: A Chinese Political Philosopher of the Fourth Century B. C.\n\nThe Huainanzi says that when Shen Buhai lived the officials of the state of Han were at cross-purposes and did not know what practices to follow. Though not unifying the laws as Shang Yang did, what Shen appears to have realized is that the \"methods for the control of a bureaucracy\" could not be mixed with the survivals of feudal government, or staffed merely by \"getting together a group of 'good men'\", but rather must be men qualified in their jobs. Unlike Shang Yang, Shen therefore emphasizes the importance of selecting able officials as much as Confucius did, but insists on \"constant vigilance over their performance\", never mentioning virtue. In comparison with Han Fei on the other hand his system required a strong ruler at the center, emphasizing that he trust no one minister.\n\nIdeally, Shen Buhai's ruler had the widest possible sovereignty, was intelligent (if not a sage), had to make all crucial decisions himself, and had unlimited control of the bureaucracy - over which, in contrast to Shang Yang, he is simply the head. Championing \"Fa\" (法 \"method\"), Shen believed that the greatest threat to a ruler's power came from within, and unlike Han Fei, never preaches to his ministers about duty or loyalty. He insisted that the ruler must be fully informed on the state of his realm, but couldn't afford to get caught up in details and was advised to listen to no one - and does not, as Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel says, have the time to do so. The way to see and hear independently is by grouping particulars into categories through mechanical or operational decision making (Fa or \"method\").\n\nShen's doctrines, posthumously referred to by Han Fei as Shu or Techniques (a term Shen does not appear to have used), are described as concerned almost exclusively with the \"ruler's role and the methods by which he may control a bureaucracy\", that is, its management and personnel control: the selection of capable ministers, their performance, the monopolization of power, and the control of and power relations between ruler and minister which he characterized as Wu Wei. They can therefore easily be considered the most crucial element in controlling a bureaucracy. \n\nMore specifically, Shen Buhai's methods (Fa) focused on \"scrutinizing achievement and on that ground alone to give rewards, and to bestow office solely on the basis of ability\". Liu Xiang wrote that Shen Buhai advised the ruler of men use technique (shu) rather than punishment, relying on persuasion to supervise and hold responsible, though very strictly. Liu considered Shen's \"principle tenant\" to be (\"Xing-Ming\" 刑名). Representing equally applied checks against the power of officials, Xing-Ming seeks the right person for the job through the examination of skill, achievement and (more rarely) seniority.\n\nShen Buhai's personnel control, or rectification of names (such as titles) worked through \"strict performance control\"(Hansen), correlating performance and posts (Xing or Shih and Ming). It would become a central tenant of both \"Legalist\" statecraft and its Taoistic derivatives. The correlation between Wu-wei and Xing-ming may have informed the Taoist conception of the formless Tao that \"gives rise to the ten thousand things.\"\n\nIn the Han Dynasty secretaries of government who had charge of the records of decisions in criminal matters were called Xing-Ming, a term used by Han Fei, which Sima Qian (145 or 135 – 86 BC) and Liu Xiang (77 BC – 6 BC) attributed to the doctrine of Shen Buhai(400 BC – c. 337 BC). Liu Xiang goes as far as to define Shen Buhai's doctrine as Xing-Ming. Shen actually used an older, more philosophically common equivalent, ming-shih, linking the \"Legalist doctrine of names\" with the name and reality (ming shih) debates of the school of names. Such discussions are also prominent in the Han Feizi.\n\nSima Qian and Liu Xiang define Xing-Ming as \"holding actual outcome accountable to Ming\". Ming sometimes has the sense of speech--so as to compare the statements of an aspiring officer with the reality of his actions--or reputation, again compared with real conduct (xing \"form\" or shih \"reality\"). Rather than having to look for \"good\" men, Xing-Ming (or ming-shih) can seek the right man for a particular post, though doing so implies a total organizational knowledge of the regime. More simply though, it can allow ministers to come forward with proposals of specific cost and time frame, leaving their definition to competing ministers--the doctrine favored by Han Fei. Preferring exactness, it combats the tendency to promise too much; the correct articulation of Ming is considered crucial to the realization of projects.\n\nThe logician Deng Xi (died 501 BCE) is cited by Liu Xiang for the origin of the principle of Xing-Ming. Serving as a minor official in the state of Zheng, he is reported to have drawn up a code of penal laws. Associated with litigation, he is said to have argued for the permissibility of contradictory propositions, likely engaging in hair-splitting debates on the interpretation of laws, legal principles and definitions.\n\nShen Buhai solves this through Wu wei, or not getting involved, making an official's words his own responsibility. Shen Buhai says, \"The ruler controls the policy, the ministers manage affairs. To speak ten times and ten times be right, to act a hundred times and a hundred times succeed - this is the business of one who serves another as minister; it is the not the way to rule.\" Noting all the details of a claim and then attempting to objectively compare them with his achievements through passive mindfulness (the \"method of yin\"), Shen Buhai's ruler neither adds to nor detracts from anything, giving names (titles/offices) on the basis of claim.\n\nShen supported reward for visible results, using ming-shih for investigation and appointment, but the legal system of Han was apparently confused, prohibiting uniform reward and punishment. We have no basis to suppose that Shen advocated the doctrine of rewards and punishment (of Shang Yang, as Han Fei did), and Han Fei criticizes him for not unifying the laws.\n\nEarlier modern scholars suggested that Shen's statecraft blended with Taoism. Rather, since the bulk of the Tao Te Ching appears to have been composed later, it might therefore be assumed that Shen influenced the Tao Te Ching. Lacking any metaphysical connotation, Shen used the term Wu wei to mean that the ruler, though vigilant, should not interfere with the duties of his ministers. \n\nFollowing Shen, Han Feistrongly advocated Wu wei. During the Han dynasty up until the reign of Han Wudi, rulers confined their activity \"chiefly to the appointment and dismissal of his high officials\", a plainly \"Legalist\" practice inherited from the Qin dynasty. This \"conception of the ruler's role as a supreme arbiter, who keeps the essential power firmly in his grasp\" while leaving details to ministers, has a \"deep influence on the theory and practice of Chinese monarchy.\"\n\nShen Buhai argued that if the government were organized and supervised relying on proper method (Fa), the ruler need do little--and must do little. Unlike \"Legalists\" Shang Yang and Han Fei, Shen did not consider the relationship between ruler and minister antagonistic necessarily. Apparently paraphrasing the Analects, Shen Buhai's statement that those near him will feel affection, while the far will yearn for him, stands in contrast to Han Fei, who considered the relationship between the ruler and ministers irreconcilable.\n\nHowever, Shen still believed that the ruler's most able ministers are his greatest danger, and is convinced that it is impossible to make them loyal without techniques. Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel explains: \"The ruler's subjects are so numerous, and so on alert to discover his weaknesses and get the better of him, that it is hopeless for him alone as one man to try to learn their characteristics and control them by his knowledge... the ruler must refrain from taking the initiative, and from making himself conspicuous--and therefore vulnerable--by taking any overt action.\"\n\nEmphasizing the use of administrative methods (Fa) in secrecy, Shen Buhai portrays the ruler as putting up a front to hide his weaknesses and dependence on his advisers. Shen therefore advises the ruler to keep his own counsel, hide his motivations, and conceal his tracks in inaction, availing himself of an appearance of stupidity and insufficiency. Shen says:\n\nActing through administrative method (Fa), the ruler conceals his intentions, likes and dislikes, skills and opinions. Not acting himself, he can avoid being manipulated. The ruler plays no active role in governmental functions. He should not use his talent even if he has it. Not using his own skills, he is better able to secure the services of capable functionaries. Creel argues that not getting involved in details allowed Shen's ruler to \"truly rule\", because it leaves him free to supervise the government without interfering, maintaining his perspective. Seeing and hearing independently, the ruler is able to make decisions independently, and is, Shen says, able to rule the world thereby.\n\nThis Wu wei (or nonaction) might be said to end up the political theory of the \"Legalists\" , if not becoming their general term for political strategy, playing a \"crucial role in the promotion of the autocratic tradition of the Chinese polity.\" The (qualified) non-action of the ruler ensures his power and the stability of the polity.\n\nThe Shiji records Li Si as repeatedly recommending \"supervising and holding responsible\", which he attributed to Shen Buhai. A stele set up by Qin Shi Huang memorializes him as a sage that, taking charge of the government, established Xing-Ming - Shen Buhai and Han Fei's doctrine of personnel selection. The Shiji states that Emperor Wen of Han was \"basically fond of Xing-Ming.\" The scholar Jia Yi advised Wen to teach his heir to use Shen Buhai's method, so as to be able to \"supervise the functions of the many officials and understand the usages of government.\" Two advisors to Wen's heir, Emperor Jing of Han were students of Xing-Ming, one passing the highest grade of examination, and admonished Jing for not using it on the feudal lords.\n\nBy the time of the civil service examination was put into place, Confucian influence saw outright discussion of Shen Buhai banned. However, the Emperor under which it was founded, Emperor Wu of Han, was both familiar with and favorable to Legalist ideas, and the civil service examination did not come into existence until its support by Gongsun Hong, who wrote a book on Xing-Ming. The Emperor Xuan of Han was still said by Liu Xiang to have been fond of reading Shen Buhai, using Xing-Ming to control his subordinates and devoting much time to legal cases. Zhuge Liang attached great importance to the works of Shen Buhai and Han Fei. Emperor Wen of Sui is recorded as having withdrawn his favour from the Confucians, giving it to \"the group advocating Xing-Ming and authoritarian government\". \n\nRegarded as being in opposition to Confucians, as early as the Eastern Han its full and original meaning would be forgotten. Yet the writings of \"Tung-Cung-shu\" discuss personnel testing and control in a manner sometimes hardly distinguishable from the \"Han Feizi\". Like Shen Buhai, he dissuades against reliance upon punishments. As Confucianism ascended the term disappeared, though it appears in later dynasties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26693948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26693948", "title": "Shōgen-ji (Gifu)", "text": "Shōgen-ji (Gifu)\n\nShogenji’s post–World War II monastic life is described concretely with the highest quality of literature in the novel \"Mind to Mind\" (1999) by author Seikan Hasegawa.\n"}
{"id": "46596172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46596172", "title": "Sidi Mohamed Barkat", "text": "Sidi Mohamed Barkat\n\nSidi Mohamed Barkat (born 1948 in Oran) is an Algerian philosopher employed in Paris.\n\nHe was an associate researcher at the psychology of work and action laboratory at the Conservatoire national des arts et métiers. After several years of employment by the university, where he was mainly occupied with questions of epistemology in the social sciences, Sidi Mohammed Barkat directed a research programme at the Collège international de philosophie in Paris on the image and condition of \"the native Algerian\" from 1998 to 2004.\n\nHe proposed a conception of legal, political and social character based on the terminology of the \"corps d'exception\" (body of exclusion). This made direct reference to the experience of the Algerian population's experience during the French occupation and intersects with the highly politicised debate about French treatment of indigenous peoples (see Indigénat). Pierre Tevanian has used this concept in his own work. Other scholars who have also mentioned or attempted to apply the concept in their own work include Gérard Bras, Daniel Borrillo, Patricia Mothes, Malika Mansouri, Olivier Le Cour Grandmaison, Claire Hancock, and Vincent Houillon.\n\n"}
{"id": "28182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28182", "title": "Social epistemology", "text": "Social epistemology\n\nSocial epistemology refers to a broad set of approaches that can be taken in the study of knowledge that construes human knowledge as a collective achievement. Another way of characterizing social epistemology is as the evaluation of the social dimensions of knowledge or information. It is sometimes simplified to mean a social justification of belief.\n\nOne of the enduring difficulties with defining \"social epistemology\" that arises is the attempt to determine what the word \"knowledge\" means in this context. There is also a challenge in arriving at a definition of \"social\" which satisfies academics from different disciplines. Social epistemologists may exist working in many of the disciplines of the humanities and social sciences, most commonly in philosophy and sociology. In addition to marking a distinct movement in traditional and analytic epistemology, social epistemology is associated with the interdisciplinary field of science and technology studies (STS).\n\nThe consideration of social dimensions of knowledge in relation to philosophy started in 380 B.C.E with Plato's dialogue: Charmides. In it he questions the degree of certainty an unprofessional in a field can have towards a person's claim to be a specialist in that same field. As the exploration of a dependence on authoritative figures constitutes a part of the study of social epistemology, it confirms the existence of the ideology in minds long before it was given its label. \n\nIn 1936, Karl Mannheim turned Karl Marx's theory of ideology (which interpreted the \"social\" aspect in epistemology to be of a political or sociological nature) into an analysis of how the human society develops and functions.\n\nIt was not until the 1970s that there was a powerful growth of interest amongst philosophers in topics such as epistemic value of testimony, the nature and function of expertise, proper distribution of cognitive labor and resources among individuals in the communities and the status of group reasoning and knowledge.\n\nThe term \"social epistemology\" was firstly used by the library scientists Margaret Egan and Jesse Shera in the 1950s. Steven Shapin also used it in 1979. However, it was not until the late 1980s that its current sense began to emerge. In 1987, the philosophical journal \"Synthese\" published a special issue on social epistemology which included two authors that have since taken the branch of epistemology in two divergent directions: Alvin Goldman and Steve Fuller. Fuller founded a journal called \"Social Epistemology: A journal of knowledge, culture, and policy\" in 1987 and published his first book, \"Social Epistemology\", in 1988. Goldman's \"Knowledge in a Social World\" came out in 1999. Goldman advocates for a type of epistemology which is sometimes called \"veritistic epistemology\" because of its large emphasis on truth. This type of epistemology is sometimes seen to side with \"essentialism\" as opposed to \"multiculturalism\". But Goldman has argued that this association between veritistic epistemology and essentialism is not necessary. He describes Social Epistemology as knowledge derived from one's interactions with another person, group or society. \n\nGoldman looks into one of the two strategies of the socialization of epistemology. This strategy includes the evaluation of social factors that impact knowledge formed on true belief. In contrast, Fuller takes preference for the second strategy that defines knowledge influenced by social factors as collectively accepted belief. The difference between the two can be simplified with exemplars e.g.: the first strategy means analyzing how your degree of wealth (a social factor) influences what information you determine to be valid whilst the second strategy occurs when an evaluation is done on wealth’s influence upon your knowledge acquired from the beliefs of the society in which you find yourself.\n\nIn 2012, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of \"Social Epistemology\", Fuller reflected upon the history and the prospects of the field, including the need for social epistemology to re-connect with the larger issues of knowledge production first identified by Charles Sanders Peirce as \"cognitive economy\" and nowadays often pursued by library and information science. As for the \"analytic social epistemology\", to which Goldman has been a significant contributor, Fuller concludes that it has \"failed to make significant progress owing, in part, to a minimal understanding of actual knowledge practices, a minimised role for philosophers in ongoing inquiry, and a focus on maintaining the status quo of epistemology as a field.\"\n\nThe basic view of knowledge that motivated the emergence of social epistemology as it is perceived today can be traced to the work of Thomas Kuhn and Michel Foucault, which gained acknowledgment at the end of the 1960s. Both brought historical concerns directly to bear on problems long associated with the philosophy of science. Perhaps the most notable issue here was the nature of truth, which both Kuhn and Foucault described as a relative and contingent notion. On this background, ongoing work in the sociology of scientific knowledge (SSK) and the history and philosophy of science (HPS) was able to assert its epistemological consequences, leading most notably to the establishment of the strong programme at the University of Edinburgh. In terms of the two strands of social epistemology, Fuller is more sensitive and receptive to this historical trajectory (if not always in agreement) than Goldman, whose \"veritistic\" social epistemology can be reasonably read as a systematic rejection of the more extreme claims associated with Kuhn and Foucault.\n\nAs a field within analytic philosophy, social epistemology foregrounds the social aspects of knowledge creation and dissemination. What precisely these social aspects are, and whether they have beneficial or detrimental effects upon the possibilities to create, acquire and spread knowledge is a subject of continuous debate.\n\nWithin the field, \"the social\" is approached in two complementary and not mutually exclusive ways: \"the social\" character of knowledge can either be approached through inquiries in \"inter-individual\" epistemic relations or through inquiries focusing on epistemic \"communities\". The inter-individual approach typically focuses on issues such as testimony, epistemic trust as a form of trust placed by one individual in another, epistemic dependence, epistemic authority, etc. The community approach typically focuses on issues such as community standards of justification, community procedures of critique, diversity, epistemic justice, and collective knowledge.\n\nSocial epistemology as a field within analytic philosophy has close ties to, and often overlaps with feminist epistemology and philosophy of science. While parts of the field engage in abstract, normative considerations of knowledge creation and dissemination, other parts of the field are \"naturalized epistemology\" in the sense that they draw on empirically gained insights---which could mean natural science research from, e.g., cognitive psychology, be that qualitative or quantitative social science research. (For the notion of \"naturalized epistemology\" see Willard Van Orman Quine.) And while parts of the field are concerned with analytic considerations of rather general character, case-based and domain-specific inquiries in, e.g., knowledge creation in collaborative scientific practice, knowledge exchange on online platforms or knowledge gained in learning institutions play an increasing role.\n\nImportant academic journals for social epistemology as a field within analytic philosophy are, e.g., \"Episteme\", \"Hypatia\", \"Social Epistemology\", and \"Synthese\". However, major works within this field are also published in journals that predominantly address philosophers of science and psychology or in interdisciplinary journals which focus on particular domains of inquiry (such as, e.g., \"Ethics and Information Technology\").\n\n\nIn both stages, both varieties of social epistemology remain largely \"academic\" or \"theoretical\" projects. Yet both emphasize the social significance of knowledge and therefore the cultural value of social epistemology itself. A range of journals publishing social epistemology welcome papers that include a policy dimension. \n\nMore practical applications of social epistemology can be found in the areas of library science, academic publishing, guidelines for scientific authorship and collaboration, knowledge policy and debates over the role over the Internet in knowledge transmission and creation.\n\nSocial epistemology is still considered a relatively new addition to philosophy, with its problems and theories still fresh and in rapid movement.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4933873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4933873", "title": "System justification", "text": "System justification\n\nSystem justification theory (SJT) is a theory within social psychology that system-justifying beliefs serve a psychologically palliative function. It proposes that people have several underlying needs, which vary from individual to individual, that can be satisfied by the defense and justification of the status quo, even when the system may be disadvantageous to certain people. People have epistemic, existential, and relational needs that are met by and manifest as ideological support for the prevailing structure of social, economic, and political norms. Need for order and stability, and thus resistance to change or alternatives, for example, can be a motivator for individuals to see the status quo as good, legitimate, and even desirable.\n\nAccording to system justification theory, people desire not only to hold favorable attitudes about themselves (ego-justification) and the groups to which they belong (group-justification), but also to hold positive attitudes about the overarching social structure in which they are entwined and find themselves obligated to (system-justification). This system-justifying motive sometimes produces the phenomenon known as out-group favoritism, an acceptance of inferiority among low-status groups and a positive image of relatively higher status groups. Thus, the notion that individuals are simultaneously supporters and victims of the system-instilled norms is a central idea in system justification theory. Additionally, the passive ease of supporting the current structure, when compared to the potential price (material, social, psychological) of acting out against the status quo, leads to a shared environment in which the existing social, economic, and political arrangements tend to be preferred. Alternatives to the status quo tend to be disparaged, and inequality tends to perpetuate.\n\nPrevious social psychological theories that aimed to explain intergroup behavior typically focused on the tendencies for people to have positive attitudes about themselves (ego-justification) and their self-relevant groups (group-justification). In other words, people are motivated to engage in behaviors that allow for them to maintain a high self-esteem and a positive image of their group.\nSystem Justification theory addressed the additional, prevalent phenomenon known as out-group favoritism, in which people defend the social systems (status quo) even when it does not benefit, and in the long-run may even cause more harm, to the individual or the group to which he or she belongs. Out-group favoritism can manifest as a dis-identification on the part of members of lower social status with their own categorical grouping (social, ethnic, economic, political) and instead further support for the existing structure. Prior social psychology theories lacked explanation for and attention given to popular instances of out-group favoritism; thus, SJT was developed to further explain and understand why some people tend to legitimize the prevailing social systems, despite their being against one's interests, in a way that previous social psychological theories did not.\n\nWhile Social Identity Theory, Cognitive Dissonance Theory, Just-World Hypothesis, Social Dominance Theory, and Marxist-Feminists Theories of Ideologies have heavily influenced System Justification Theory, it has also expanded on these perspectives, infusing them with the system-justification motive and behaviors.\n\nOne of the most popular and well-known social psychological theories, cognitive dissonance theory explains that people have a need to maintain cognitive consistency in order to retain a positive self-image. System justification theory builds off the cognitive dissonance framework, in that it posits people will justify a social system in order to retain a positive image of that social system, due to the fact that they inherently play a role (whether passive or active) in perpetuating it.\n\nJost and colleagues interpret social identity theory as suggesting that when people are presented with intergroup conflict that threatens their social group identities people will justify behaviors like stereotyping and discrimination against outgroups in order to maintain their positive group image. This interpretation has been rejected by social identity theorists, but nonetheless system justification theorists go on to argue that social identity theory has therefore not sufficiently addressed instances of outgroup favoritism in disadvantaged groups. People with out-group favoritism will hold more positive images of other, often higher status, groups (outgroups) than the groups they belong to (ingroups). Thus, the argument is that system justification theory builds on the foundations of social identity theory in attempting to account for the out-group favoritism observed in many disadvantaged group members that social identity theory does not.\n\nThis theory has widely been compared to system justification theory since they are both system justifying theories. Social dominance theory focuses on people’s motive to maintain a positive group image by generally supporting hierarchical inequality at the group level. Individuals with a high social dominance orientation (SDO) will hold myths that tend to be hierarchy enhancing, which justify an in-group's place and their relation to it. Thus, in both social dominance theory and system justification theory, there are common threads of group-based opposition to equality and justification for maintaining intergroup inequalities through systemic norms.\n\nThis theory broadly explains that people are inclined to believe the world is generally fair, and that the outcomes of people’s behavior are subsequently deserved. Ideologies that relate to belief in a just world have to do with maintaining a sense of personal control and a desire to understand the world as non-random. Such ideologies include the protestant work ethic and belief in meritocracy. Essentially, belief in a just world feeds an epistemic need for predictability, order, and stability in one's environment. System justification theory, while keeping the perspective that people are inclined to believe the world is just, extracts the underlying epistemic needs of the just world ideology and uses them as support for why people are motivated to uphold the system. In other words, preference for stability, predictability, and the perception of personal control, over random chance, motivates one to see the status quo as fair and legitimate. This can be an issue, however, due to the fact that disadvantaged people can easily internalize their low position and blame themselves for 'shortcomings' or lack of 'successes.'\n\nIn order to account for the phenomenon of outgroup favoritism that is a main component of system justification, theorists have derived heavily from the Marxist-feminist theories on the prevailing ideologies as tools to preserve the system. In particular, the concept of false consciousness, in which the dominant group in society believes their dominance to be destined, can help to inform why certain members of disadvantage groups sometimes engage in outgroup favoritism. Further, system justification emphasizes that those that lack means of material production (lower status) are subject to the ideas, (cultural values, legislation, and social teachings) of the dominant, controlling group.\n\nOne of the main aspects of system justification theory explains that people are motivated to justify the status quo and view it as stable and desirable. To this extent, theorists have provided specific hypothesis in which the rationalization of the status quo can manifest. One consequence of the system-justifying motivation, is the rationalization of desirability of likely versus less-likely events.\n\nSince people will be inclined to make sure their preferences are congruent with the status quo, in situations of inevitability, people are more likely to endorse the status quo as a coping mechanism for dealing with unpleasant realities. In essence, people will judge events that are more likely as more desirable than events that are less likely. Anticipatory rationalization studies completed during presidential election in 2000 demonstrate how future candidate endorsement and desirability is dependent on the likelihood of that candidate winning. When subjects of both the Republican and Democratic parties were told, for example, that it was probable that one candidate would win over the other, people of both parties tended to rationalize support for the more likely winner. System justification for seemingly inevitable and unavoidable outcomes serves as a stress/dissonance reducer and provides psychological and emotional consolation, as well as allowing the individual to feel a sense of control over external events.\n\nAnother way people rationalize the status quo is through the use of stereotypes. When people perceive threats to the predominant system, they are more inclined to cling to and back the existing structure, and one way of doing so is by means of endorsing stereotypes that rationalize inequality. If one considers oneself a member of a higher social status group (economic standing, race, gender) he or she will hold favorable stereotypes about their group and less positive ones toward lower status outgroups. As perceived legitimacy of the system or threat to it increases, members of both disadvantaged and advantaged groups will be more motivated to utilize stereotypes as explanatory rationalizations (no matter how weak) for unequal status differences. Those that belong to disadvantaged groups will tend to associate positive characteristics (favorable stereotypes) to high status members and lead low status group members to minimize negative feelings about their low status. Thus, stereotype endorsement as system justification is consensual and holds a palliative function. This is true for both the ingroup and outgroup. Stereotypes also deflect blame of unfair status differences from the system and instead, attribute inequality to group traits or characteristics. Such rationalization for inequality via stereotyping is said to be what makes political conservatives happier than liberals. In a recent research study on the connection of system justification beliefs and ambivalent sexism, researchers found that benevolent sexism beliefs related to higher life satisfaction through system justification. That is, both men and women may be motivated to hold benevolent sexism beliefs because such beliefs may help to promote the notion that the status quo is fair, which in turn can maintain life satisfaction.\n\nIn contrast to ingroup favoritism, which holds that people have a motivation to regard the social groups that they belong in more positively than other groups, outgroup favoritism is when people tend to regard groups to which they do not belong more positively than the groups to which they are members. System justification theorists argue that this is an example or manifestation of how some people have unconsciously absorbed, processed, and attempted to cope with existing inequalities—more specifically, one's own disadvantaged position in the social hierarchy. Because people have a tendency to justify the status quo (which usually consists of inequality among groups) and believe that it is fair and legitimate, certain people from low status groups will accept, internalize, and hence perpetuate that inequality.\n\nCriticisms of outgroup favoritism have suggested observations of this in disadvantaged group members are simply manifestations of more general demand characteristics or social norms that encourage low status groups to evaluate other groups more positively. In response to this, system justification theorists introduced both implicit and explicit measures of outgroup favoritism. It was found that low status group members still exhibited outgroup favoritism (i.e. preference for other groups) on both implicit and explicit measures, and they displayed higher instances of outgroup favoritism on implicit measures than on explicit (self-reported) measures. In contrast, people from high status groups were found to display ingroup favoritism more on implicit measures.\n\nThus, it is expected that when motivation to justify the system or status quo increases and it is perceived to be more legitimate, high status group members will also display increased ingroup favoritism, while low status group members will display increased outgroup favoritism.\nResearchers have also linked political conservatism with system justification, in that conservatism is associated with upholding tradition and resistance to change, which is similar to justifying the status quo (or current state of social, political, and economic norms). Along this vein, system justification theorists hold that high status group members will engage in increased ingroup favoritism the more politically conservative they are, while low status group members will display increased outgroup favoritism the more politically conservative they are.\n\nResearch on wage disparities among men and women have found that women often believe they are paid less than men because they do not deserve equal pay. This depressed entitlement was first thought as the manifestation of women internalizing the low status of their gender compared to men. Subsequent research has found depressed entitlement occur across contexts in which gender was not a variable. System justification theorists have suggested that depressed entitlement is another general example of how individuals of low status groups absorb their inferiority in order to justify the status quo. As such, system justification holds that low status group members regardless of context will be more likely to display instances of depressed entitlement than high status group members. And this will be seen more among low status group members for completed work as opposed to work not yet completed.\n\nAs previously stated, people are motivated by the desire for ego-justification and group-justification to view themselves and their group positively (which can manifest through feelings of self-esteem and value). The system-justification motive is people’s desire to view the system or status quo in a favorable light as legitimate and fair. Among high status group members, all three of these motives are congruent with one another. The need to believe the system is just and fair is easy for high status group members because they are the groups benefiting from the system and status quo. Therefore, as the advantaged groups, holding positive regard for the self and group corresponds readily with believing the status quo is legitimate.\n\nIn particular, as system justification motives increase for high status group members, ingroup ambivalence will decrease, levels of self-esteem will increase, and depression and neuroticism levels will decrease. For low status groups, the ego-justification and group-justification motives come into conflict with the system-justification motive. If low status group members have a desire to believe the status quo and prevailing system is fair and legitimate, then this would conflict with the motivation of these individuals to maintain positive self and group images. Theorists posit that this conflict of justification motives creates conflicting or mixed attitudes in low status groups as a result of being the disadvantaged group that does not necessarily benefit from the status quo.\n\nAs system justification motives increase for low status group members, ingroup ambivalence will increase and occur at stronger levels compared to high status groups, levels of self-esteem will decrease, and depression and neuroticism levels will increase. Moreover, researchers suggest that when ego and group justification motives are particularly decreased, system-justification motives will increase.\n\nBased on cognitive dissonance theory that holds people have a need to reduce dissonance and maintain cognitive consistency, system justification theory explains that people are motivated to rationalize and justify instances of inequality in order to preserve and defend the legitimacy of the system. Because people have this need to believe the current prevailing system is legitimate and the way it is for a reason, when presented with instances where this might threaten that, people will respond with more justifications to maintain the legitimacy of the system or status quo. Since high status group members regularly benefit from the prevailing system, they are expected to rarely be presented with examples that would threaten the legitimacy of the system. In contrast, it is expected that low status group members who do not benefit from the system, would be presented more regularly with threats to the legitimacy of the system and status quo. Thus, it is expected for system justification tendencies to increase in societies with more substantial group inequalities, and low status group members will be more inclined than high status group members to provide more intense justifications to rationalize and uphold the prevailing systems and status quo.\n\nResearch has found that compensatory stereotypes might lead to increased justification of the status quo. That is, stereotypes that have components that would offset the negative aspects of the stereotypes would allow people to more easily explain or justify the inequality of the prevailing system. One of the more common examples is the compensatory stereotype of “poor but happy” or “rich but miserable.” Stereotypes like these that incorporate a positive aspect to counterbalance the negative aspect would lead people to increase their justification of the status quo. Other findings suggested that these compensatory stereotypes are preferred by those with more left leaning political ideologies, while those with more right leaning political ideologies preferred non-complimentary stereotypes that simply rationalized inequality rather than compensated for it. But that overall, conservatives were more likely to have increased system justification tendencies than liberals.\n\nConsequences of people’s motivation to legitimize the status quo are wide-ranging. In needing to believe that the current or prevailing systems are fair and just, results in people justifying the existing inequalities within it. Research on system justification theory has been applied to many different social and political contexts that have found the theory has implications for general social change, social policies, and specific communities.\nResearch has found that people with increased system justification motives are more resistant to change, and thus an implication of this would be greater difficulty to move towards policies, governments, authority figures, and hierarchies that reflect equality.\n\nResearch suggests that system justification motives reduce emotional distress in people that would otherwise result in demands for amendments to perceived injustices or inequalities. Specifically, moral outrage, guilt, and frustration are reduced when system justification motives increase. This has shown to result in less support for social policies that redistribute resources in the aim for equality.\n\nIn developing countries, in which group inequalities are most evident, researchers were interested in testing the claim of system justification theory that when inequalities are more visible, this will result in greater justification of the status quo. Researchers visited the most impoverished areas of Bolivia, and found that among children (aged 10–15) who were members of low status groups, legitimized the Bolivian government as sufficiently meeting the needs of the people more than children from high status groups. Observing system-justification motives in low status groups located in one of the most impoverished countries implies there will be less support for social change in a country that arguable needs it the most.\n\nIn the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, there were different reactions to the devastation it brought to communities as well as the government’s relief efforts. Researchers who have studied these reactions, found that the slow and inefficient response of relief efforts were perceived by some to expose “governmental shortcomings, call into question the legitimacy of agency leadership, and highlight racial inequality in America.” These perceptions indirectly brought a threat to the legitimacy of the U.S. government (i.e. the system). As a result of this system threat, researchers found that people tended to restore legitimacy to the system through utilizing stereotypes and victim blaming. In particular, since the majority of the communities affected by Hurricane Katrina were generally low-income and composed mostly of minorities, some people used stereotypes to blame the victims for their misfortune and restore legitimacy to the government. Researchers explained how this could have consequences for the victims and restoring their homes and communities back to normal. Increased system justification, and increased victim blaming could be detrimental in providing the victims the resources needed to work towards repairing the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina.\n\nThis debate arose from social identity theorists countering a critique to the theory by system justification theorists. The critique by system justification theorists refers to the evidence for the theoretical conception of system justification theory that derived from limitations to social identity theory. System justification theorists have stated that Social Identity Theory does not account for outgroup favoritism, and that the limitations of the theory only lend it to measure ingroup favoritism. Advocates for social identity theory claim that this critique is more a result of lack of research done that has focused on outgroup favoritism rather than a limitation of the theoretical framework. Moreover, social identity theorists also claim this is not sufficient evidence for the need of system justification and social dominance theories to help account for justification motives. As such, they have claimed that research that measures outgroup favoritism from a social identity perspective is simply needed to bolster the theory. While both theories continue to produce findings, the debate continues to be discussed.\n\nAnother critique is that SJT is too similar and indistinguishable to status quo bias. Given that both deal directly with upholding and legitimizing the status quo, this critique is not unfounded. But system justification theory differs from the status quo bias in that it is predominately motivational rather than cognitive. Generally, the status quo bias refers to a tendency to prefer the default or established option when making choices. In contrast, system justification posits that people need and want to see prevailing social systems as fair and just. The motivational component of system justification means that its effects are exacerbated when people are under psychological threat or when they feel their outcomes are especially dependent on the system that is being justified.\n\nCongruent with a broader trend toward neuroscience, current research on system justification has tested to see how this manifests in the brain. Findings by researchers have shown that people with more conservative ideologies differed in certain brain structures, which was associated with sensitivity to threat and response conflict. Specifically, those who were more conservative were “associated with greater neural sensitivity to threat and larger amygdala volume, as well as less sensitivity to response conflict and smaller anterior cingulate volume,” compared to those who were more liberal. This research is currently exploratory and has not yet determined the direction of the relations to ideology and brain structures.\n\nRecent findings by researchers have shown that system justification motives to legitimize the status quo was found in young children. Through utilizing the developmental psychological theory and data, children as early as age 5 were found to have basic understandings of their ingroup and the status of their ingroup. System justification motives were also observed in that children from low status groups were found display implicit outgroup favoritism. Research on system justification in young children remains a current trend.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37780750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37780750", "title": "The Book of the Governor", "text": "The Book of the Governor\n\nThe Boke named the Governour, sometimes referred to in modern English as The Book of the Governor, is a book written by Thomas Elyot and published in 1531. It was dedicated to Henry VIII and is largely a treatise on how to properly train statesmen. It also discusses ethical dilemmas in the education system of the time. \"The Book of the Governor\" is evidence of the impact that Renaissance humanism had on prose writing.\n\nThomas Elyot was born before 1490 and died in 1546. He was the son of Sir Richard Elyot and Alice Fynderne. His father was a prominent lawyer, so Thomas received a quality education. Both Cambridge and Oxford claim him as an alumnus, but there is no sufficient evidence either way. He studied mostly liberal arts and philosophy, but also some medicine. In 1510 he married Margaret Aborough. In 1530 he was knighted. In 1531, he was made ambassador to the Emperor, Charles V. In 1538 he published the first Latin-English dictionary. As a writer, he is clear, precise, measured, and practically monotonous. His major works include:\n\n\"The Boke named the Governour\" is considered to be the first educational treatise in English. It sets out the way of life for member of the English governing class. Between 1531 and 1580, the book went through seven different editions. According to Biblio.com, the Book of the Governor \"went through edition after edition all through the sixteenth century. It achieved this fame for many reasons. It is the first work in recognizably modern English prose, to which Elyot added many new words. It provided influential advocacy for the study of the classics, from which he quotes extensively. the principal cause of its popularity was the current vogue for its subject – it is a treatise on moral philosophy, laying down the lines on which the education of those destined to govern should be directed, and inculcating the high moral principles which should rule them in the performance of their duties. There was nothing very original or revolutionary in the thoughts expressed: Elyot acknowledges his debt to the \"Institutio Principis Christiani\" of Erasmus and Castiglione’s \"Il Cortegiano\", though not that to Francesco Patrizzi, Bishop of Gaeta at the end of the fifteenth century, whose \"De Rego et Regis Institutione\" was certainly the model for \"The Governour\". Nevertheless it remained a textbook for behaviour for generations and had a lasting effect on the writing of English.\"\n\nElyot wrote his book at the beginning of English Renaissance humanism. During this time, \"humanists were distinguished from other scholars not by exclusive focus on human or secular texts, but rather by their focus on secular writings, particularly classical ones, \"as well as\" on religious texts and thoughts\". It was during this time that the Greek and Roman classics were finally coming back. This is the time when Plato played a significant role in philosophical history. Renaissance humanism also introduced a new richness in the English language – writers began to use rhetoric, and language was viewed as a worthy subject to study. This is why Elyot's book became so popular not only with the people, but also the King.\n\n"}
{"id": "409463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409463", "title": "The Kingdom of God Is Within You", "text": "The Kingdom of God Is Within You\n\nThe Kingdom of God Is Within You (pre-reform Russian: ; post-reform ) is a non-fiction book written by Leo Tolstoy. A philosophical treatise, the book was first published in Germany in 1894 after being banned in his home country of Russia. It is the culmination of thirty years of Tolstoy's thinking, and lays out a new organization for society based on an interpretation of Christianity focusing on universal love.\n\n\"The Kingdom of God is Within You\" is a key text for Tolstoyan proponents of nonviolence, of nonviolent resistance, and of the Christian anarchist movement.\n\nThe title of the book is taken from Luke 17:21. In the book Tolstoy speaks of the principle of nonviolent resistance when confronted by violence, as taught by Jesus Christ. When Christ says to turn the other cheek, Tolstoy asserts that Christ means to abolish violence, even the defensive kind, and to give up revenge. Tolstoy rejects the interpretation of Roman and medieval scholars who attempted to limit its scope.\n\nTolstoy took the viewpoint that all governments who waged war are an affront to Christian principles. As the Russian Orthodox Church was—at the time—an organization merged with the Russian state and fully supporting state's policy, Tolstoy sought to separate its teachings from what he believed to be the true gospel of Christ, specifically the Sermon on the Mount.\n\nTolstoy advocated nonviolence as a solution to nationalist woes and as a means for seeing the hypocrisy of the church. In reading Jesus' words in the Gospels, Tolstoy notes that the modern church is a heretical creation:\n\nTolstoy presented excerpts from magazines and newspapers relating various personal experiences, and gave keen insight into the history of non-resistance from the very foundation of Christianity, as being professed by a minority of believers. In particular, he confronts those who seek to maintain \"status quo\":\n\nIn 1894 Constance Garnett, who translated the work into English, wrote the following in her translator's preface:\"One cannot of course anticipate that English people, slow as they are to be influenced by ideas, and instinctively distrustful of all that is logical, will take a leap in the dark and attempt to put Tolstoi's theory of life into practice. But one may at least be sure that his destructive critcism of the present social and political regime will become a powerful force in the work of distintegration and social reconstruction which is going on around us.\"\n\nMohandas Gandhi wrote in his autobiography \"The Story of My Experiments with Truth\" () that this book \"overwhelmed\" him and \"left an abiding impression.\" Gandhi listed Tolstoy's book, as well as John Ruskin's \"Unto This Last\" and the poet Shrimad Rajchandra (Raychandbhai), as the three most important modern influences in his life. Reading this book opened up the mind of the world-famous Tolstoy to Gandhi, who was still a young protester living in South Africa at the time.\n\nIn 1908 Tolstoy wrote, and Gandhi read, \"A Letter to a Hindu\", which outlines the notion that only by using love as a weapon through passive resistance could the native Indian people overthrow the colonial British Empire. This idea ultimately came to fruition through Gandhi's organization of nationwide nonviolent strikes and protests during the years 1918–1947. In 1909, Gandhi wrote to Tolstoy seeking advice and permission to republish \"A Letter to a Hindu\" in his native language, Gujarati. Tolstoy responded and the two continued a correspondence until Tolstoy's death a year later in 1910. The letters concern practical and theological applications of nonviolence, as well as Gandhi's wishes for Tolstoy's health. Tolstoy's last letter to Gandhi \"was one of the last, if not the last, writings from his pen.\" \n\n\"The Kingdom of God is Within You\" also had a great effect upon James Bevel, a major 1960s strategist of the civil rights movement. After reading the book while serving in the U.S. Navy, Bevel came to the conclusion that he would be unable to kill another person. He thereafter sought and was granted an honorable discharge, and entered a seminary for religious training.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35013518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35013518", "title": "The captain goes down with the ship", "text": "The captain goes down with the ship\n\n\"The captain goes down with the ship\" is an idiom and maritime tradition that a sea captain holds ultimate responsibility for both his ship and everyone embarked on it, and that in an emergency, he will either save them or die trying. Although often connected to the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\" in 1912 and its captain, Edward J. Smith, the phrase precedes \"Titanic\" by at least 11 years. In most instances, the captain of the ship forgoes his own rapid departure of a ship in distress, and concentrates instead on saving other people. It often results in either the death or belated rescue of the captain as the last person on board.\n\nThe concept is closely related to another protocol from the nineteenth century, \"women and children first.\" Both reflect the Victorian ideal of chivalry in which the upper classes were expected to emulate a morality tied to sacred honour, service, and respect for the disadvantaged. The actions of the captain and men during the sinking of in 1852 prompted praise from many due to the sacrifice of the men who saved the women and children by evacuating them first. Rudyard Kipling's poem \"Soldier an' Sailor Too\" and Samuel Smiles' \"Self-Help\" both highlighted the valour of the men who stood at attention and played in the band as their ship was sinking.\n\nThe idiom literally means that a captain will be the last person to leave a ship alive before its sinking or utter destruction, and if unable to evacuate the crew and passengers, the captain will not save himself even if he can. In a social context, especially as a mariner, the captain will feel compelled to take this responsibility as a type of social norm. Shirking this responsibility in a crisis would go against societal mores because of the offender's lack of ethics.\n\nIn maritime law, the ship's master's responsibility for his vessel is paramount no matter what its condition, so abandoning a ship has legal consequences, including the nature of salvage rights. So even if a captain abandons his ship in distress, he is generally responsible for it in his absence and would be compelled to return to the ship until danger to the vessel has relented. If a naval captain evacuates a vessel in wartime, it may be considered a capital offence similar to desertion unless he subsequently returns to the ship at his first opportunity to prevent its capture and rescue the crew.\n\nAbandoning a ship in distress may be considered a crime that can lead to imprisonment. Captain Francesco Schettino, who left his ship in the midst of the \"Costa Concordia\" disaster, was not only widely reviled for his actions, but lost his final appeal against his 16-year Italian prison sentence including one year for abandoning his passengers, five years for causing the shipwreck, and ten years for manslaughter of its victims. Abandoning ship is a maritime crime that has been on the books for centuries in Spain, Greece and Italy. South Korean law may also require the captain to rescue himself last. In Finland the Maritime Law (\"Merilaki\") states that the captain must do everything in his power to save everyone on board the ship in distress and that unless his life is in immediate danger, he shall not leave the vessel as long as there is reasonable hope that it can be saved. In the United States, abandoning the ship is not explicitly illegal, but the captain could be charged with other crimes, such as manslaughter, which encompass common law precedent passed down through centuries. It is not illegal under international maritime law.\n\n\nIn some cases the captain may choose to scuttle the ship and escape danger rather than die as it sinks. This choice is usually only available if the damage does not immediately imperil a vast portion of the ship's company and occupants. If a distress call was successful and the crew and occupants, the ship's cargo, and other items of interest are rescued, then the vessel may not be worth anything as marine salvage and allowed to sink. In other cases a military organization or navy might wish to destroy a ship to prevent it being taken as a prize or captured for espionage, such as occurred in the incident. Commodities and war material carried as cargo might also need to be destroyed to prevent capture by the opposing side.\n\nIn other cases a captain may decide to save himself to the detriment of his crew, the vessel, or its mission. A decision that shirks the responsibilities of the command of a vessel will usually bring upon the captain a legal, criminal, or social penalty, with military commanders often facing dishonor.\n\n\nWhen used metaphorically, the \"captain\" may be simply the leader of a group of people, \"the ship\" may refer to some other place that is threatened by catastrophe, and \"going down\" with it may refer to a situation that implies a severe penalty or death. It is common for references to be made in the case of the military and when leadership during the situation is clear. So when a raging fire threatens to destroy a mine, the mine's supervisor, the \"captain,\" may perish in the fire trying to rescue his workers trapped inside, and acquaintances might say that he went down with his ship or that he \"died trying.\"\n\nThe concept has been explicitly extended in law to the pilot in command of an aircraft, in the form of laws stating that he \"[has] final authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of the flight.\" Jurisprudence has explicitly interpreted this by analogy with the captain of a sea vessel.\n\nThis is particularly relevant when an aircraft is forced to ditch in the ocean and becomes a floating vessel that will almost certainly sink. For example, following the crash of US Airways Flight 1549 into the Hudson River, pilot Chesley Sullenberger was the last person to exit the partially-submerged aircraft, and performed a final check for any others on board before doing so.\n\nSimilarly, on October 16, 1956, Pan Am Flight 6 was a Boeing 377 Stratocruiser en route from Honolulu to San Francisco that was forced to ditch in the Pacific Ocean due to multiple engine failures. The airliner broke apart when one of its wings collided with a wave swell. Airline Captain Richard N. Ogg was the last to exit the airplane during the successful mid-ocean ditching and rescue of all 31 on board by the US Coast Guard Cutter USCGC \"Pontchartrain\". The airplane fuselage sank with no one on board a few minutes later.\n\nAfter a major scandal at Baylor University, the university fired President Kenneth Starr and appointed him chancellor. A week later, Starr resigned as chancellor and \"willingly accepted responsibility\" for the actions of Baylor that \"clearly fell short.\" He stated that his resignation for the scandal was \"a matter of conscience,\" and said, \"The captain goes down with the ship.\" He indicated that his resignation was necessary even though he \"didn't know what was happening.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "981440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981440", "title": "Theoretical psychology", "text": "Theoretical psychology\n\nTheoretical psychology is concerned with theoretical and philosophical aspects of psychology. It is an interdisciplinary field with a wide scope of study. It focuses on combining and incorporating existing and developing theories of psychology non-experimentally. Theoretical psychology originated from the philosophy of science, with logic and rationality at the base of each new idea. It existed before empirical or experimental psychology. Theoretical psychology is an interdisciplinary field involving psychologists specializing in a wide variety of psychological branches. There have been a few prominent pioneers of theoretical psychology such as Wilhelm Wundt, William James, Sigmund Freud, and John B. Watson. There has also been a number of notable contributors which include Jerome Kagan, Alan E. Kazdin, Robert Sternberg, Kenneth J. Gergen, and Ulric Neisser. These contributors often publish in a variety of journals including the most prominent for theoretical psychology, the \"Journal of Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology\". Many other organizations are beginning to recognize theoretical psychology as a formal subdivision of psychology.\n\nTheoretical psychology emerged from philosophy, more specifically, from the philosophy of science. Philosophy strives to understand nature and structure of concepts, the laws in which these concepts occur, and the theories that combine the laws together. One of these specific branches of philosophy of science is theoretical psychology. Philosophy of science does not use the scientific method to empirically derive ideas about the physical world through conducting experiments and interpreting results. However, it is still about science with an emphasis on the logic and rationality behind science itself, bringing to light what cannot be explained by empirical measures. It is also metaphysically and epistemologically focused on all humans while incorporating the nature and essence of human knowledge. Just as the philosophy of science is to science, theoretical psychology is to psychology in that it is the logic and rationality applied to concepts, laws, and theories. Theoretical psychology is not in place to discern which theories are more truthful or more correctly. Many consider theoretical psychology as the support or rationalization of an \"idea\" within psychological theory that is more \"truthful\". However, this is not the case. Theoretical psychology is scientifically grounded in ideas of what is known through epistemology.\nTheoretical psychology existed long before any branches of traditional empirical and experimental psychology. Because of this, there is much more depth and breadth of knowledge from which to draw. This also makes it less common for new developments to come about in the present day because many \"new\" approaches are drawing from and revitalizing past theories. This brings new knowledge, frames of reference, and mindsets to these foundational theories. This may be due to Ideas taking longer to develop and gain momentum than related fields in empirical based psychology.\n\nTheoretical psychology is a rational, non-experimental approach to psychology. In psychology, as with any field of study, there are three philosophical perspectives and methodologies of ways to derive knowledge about the reality of the world. Rationalism (use of intellect and reason of the mind), Empiricism (use of our individually experienced sensorium), and Skepticism (knowledge beyond mere appearance that is not able to be studied) characterize the three perspectives in understanding theoretical concepts relating to laws which help to understand larger theoretical theories.\n\nOf the philosophical perspectives, rationalism is the most pertinent to this discipline of psychology. Theoretical psychology is not experimental or clinically based and focuses on non-experimental ways to acquire knowledge about psychological topics. It explores the theoretical knowledge behind its encompassed ideologies. Oftentimes this includes, but is not limited to, non-experimental critiques to different schools of thought, and the usefulness of psychological concepts. Theoretical psychology is a discipline that bases its information through inference, as opposed to empirically acquired information. Hypotheses are then exchanged and further built upon from different perspectives. Theoretical Psychology also deals with manipulating non-scientific, common words (hypothetical constructs) into scientifically objective terms (intervening variables). Theoretical psychology requires full agreement on the different viewpoints to be able to see the point as a theory. As a result, many of its topics remain in continuous debate.\n\nTheoretical psychology is the logic of psychology and all of its components. This means when theories within psychology oppose or compete, theoretical psychology does not select which is correct. It describes the nature and composition of psychology's many ideas. To explain the logic of psychology, there has been a conclusion of the principles belonging to the three classified areas. Psychology is built on the principle of being able to reference observable behavior, physical environment, and/or physiological states. Theoretical psychology is an important aspect that continues to play a role in modern psychology. While there are some downfalls to theoretical psychology, there are also strengths and benefits it brings to the field.\n\nThe scope that theoretical psychology covers is vast. Professionals have the opportunity to use this method of seeking out theoretical knowledge to begin research in a variety of subjects. This allows for a great deal of knowledge to be explored by means of inference rather than seeking out tangible data to draw ideas. Theoretical psychology is an interdisciplinary field involving psychologists specializing in cognitive psychology, social psychology, developmental psychology, personality psychology, clinical psychology, perceptual psychology, neuropsychology, biological psychology, evolutionary psychology, historical psychology, economic psychology, political psychology, and critical psychology. It is important to acknowledge these fields do not discount empiricism, but rather explore new ideas with a theoretical approach first.\n\nA brief history into the field of theoretical psychology includes some prominent pioneers. To begin, Wilhelm Wundt (1874) originally worked as a professor of philosophy. His focus was on the subjective study of an individual's consciousness, he believed that this was a key factor to the field of psychology. This aspect of psychology was unable to be shown with a large amount of empirical evidence, but remained a theory throughout the history of Psychology. Next, William James (1890) worked as a psychologist and a philosopher. His career focused around the idea of free will, which is theoretical in nature. He also assisted in forming the James-Lange theory of emotion, which is based upon many theoretical factors.Sigmund Freud (1905) was also an important pioneer for theoretical psychology. Freud founded the psychoanalytic theory of psychology. He did not rely on empirical data when making his theories, but instead looked for philosophical explanations. Freud often shared his view that he did not need empirical evidence for his theory, because he simply knew it is true. Another pioneer was John B. Watson (1913). Watson founded the theory of behaviorism in psychology through the article \"Psychology as a Behaviorist Views It\". Although Behaviorism has a strong emphasis on empirical psychology, forming the methods cannot be empirically tested, and is therefore considered theoretical psychology.\n\nThere are some notable individuals that have, and continue to make a large impact on theoretical psychology. Jerome Kagan's (1971) work on personality traits and aging, emotion, and temperament could be considered theoretical psychology due to Kagen dedicating much of his work to psychology constructs, specifically to the developmental psychology. As a science gains new empirical procedures it also generates new information. Donald Meichenbaum (1977) had work that focused on cognitive behavioral therapy. Meichenbaum did the majority of his work in the field of cognitive psychology. He compared his theory to Pandora's box. Its main focus is connecting cognitive processes and relations to things such as clients' feelings, behavior, and consequences of these. It also factors in physiologic and social cultural processes. Alan E. Kazdin (1980) had theories that focuses on Cognitive Behavioral Therapy as a style in children and adolescence. He focuses on child and adolescent psychopathologies such as depression and conduct problems. His writings on research strategies and methods have set a high standard for rigor in the field. Robert Sternberg's (1990) main focus revolves around some theoretical idea that include; creativity, wisdom, thinking styles, love, and hate. Sternberg often includes politically charged articles that focus on admissions testing and general intelligence. He performed both empirically driven and theoretical work. Kenneth J. Gergen's (1991) work on social psychology as history was used towards generative theories, realities and relationships, the saturated self, positive aging, and relational being. He included many theoretical ideas such as culture and science, assumptions, views on mental illness, and relations. Many of his idea's were theoretical in nature. Ulric Neisser(1995) has work that's related to cognitive psychology, specifically the idea of flashbulb memories. Although he used empirical data to test this idea, he originally took the concept from theoretical work. These individual's and many others continue to impact psychology with theoretical ideas that may or may not be yet supported by empirical data.\n\nThe American Psychological Association has the division of Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology as Division 24. Theoretical Ideas are also associated to the division of humanistic psychology (32). According to the American Psychological Association, \"Division 24: Society for Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology encourages and facilitates informed exploration and discussion of psychological theories and issues in both their scientific and philosophical dimensions and interrelationships.\" The International Society for Theoretical Psychology, the Section of History and Philosophy of Psychology (25) of the Canadian Psychological Society, the Section of History and Philosophy of psychology of the British Psychological Society, the International Human Science Conference, and the Society for Philosophy and Psychology also offer organizational support. Universities that currently have Theoretical Psychology/Human Science programs include Duquesne University, the University of Dallas, Seattle University, West Georgia College, University of Calgary, University of Alberta, York University, Brigham Young University, University of Notre Dame, And Georgetown University.\n\nTheoretical psychology works together with empirical psychology to form a symbiotic relationship. Theoretical psychology is not constrained by empirical research or laboratory studies. It allows for scientists to freely search for knowledge that we have yet to be able to study empirically or are not yet capable of studying empirically. For theoretical psychology, its strength lies in the realm of rationality, focused on big picture ideas. However, on its own it is not a complete way to gain particular knowledge of reality. This is where the empirical based branches of psychology has strength. Theoretical psychology can more heavily rely on an idea about human nature that is universal, even when it is not known why or how this particular trend happens in the world, either individualistically or collectively. Empirical psychology is what allows for humans to make insights on these big picture ideas at a more palatable, applicable and individualistic and way that gives practical information about reality. Theoretical psychology is not a universal psychological theory able to explain all topics without the use of empirical research. Theoretical psychology is not fundamental or comprehensive theory of psychology, rather, for theoretical psychology to operate correctly it is important to supplement empirical psychology and give reason to topics and produce theories until they can be empirically verified by the other branches of psychology.\n\nHumans have innate wonder, exploring many topics through experience and perception. From this wonder, individuals rationally reflects on their own experiences about a specific topic. Then the individual practices dialectics, examining what others have said about the topic being explored with the hopes of finding a particular knowledge about the topic. Theoretical psychology serves as the bridge between the philosophical roots of psychology and the present day empirical psychology. This bridge has an emphasis and focus on forming concepts from moments of explicit behavior that are observable, excluding introspective mental events within individual consciousness. Psychological laws are created from these observable behaviors that are derived from one concept that also contain concepts from the individual’s environment of internal physiological states. These laws are categorized into causal (statistical) or deterministic/mechanistic (nonstatistical) categories which relate simultaneous parallel traits or predict future from present or past respectively. Then these laws are organized into theories based on connections logically deduced together and open to new laws yet to be discovered or empirically verified. The ultimate and logically possible goal of theoretical psychology is to create an exact and comprehensive psychological theory. However, the concepts that are immediately observable are still abstract and difficult to define even in a basic law in an important solid theory as they relate to no physical object we can make sense of or interact with using our sensorium and empirical approaches. They are not instantiated in the world and in virtue of this they are called theoretical concepts.\n\nTheoretical psychology has many aspects that can be viewed as positive or negative, which depends on the interpreter. Theoretical psychology can play an important and also unique role in the field such that almost any claim can be reasonably thought of as true if it is theoretically appealing and empirically supported by research. Theorists must be strategic and knowledgeable when shifting through experimental psychology as the field grows. This can be beneficial in the sense that individuals know theorists have made a deliberated effort when analyzing the research surrounding a theory. However, for those who are not familiar with the theoretical psychology surrounding a theory, the abundant amount of information contributing to a theory can be overwhelming. In addition, theories can be extremely resistant to change. As theories compete, and different evidence emerges, prior theories can be extremely difficult to change. This can make it difficult for new theories to gain traction within the field of psychology. This resiliency may in part be due to theories stated in ways that are worded too abstractly, ineffectively, and contradictory at times. One challenge of theoretical psychology is the difficulty to explain consciousness: there are many competing theories revolving around consciousness, and theoretical psychology struggles to fully explain or justify consciousness. Researchers have an extremely difficult time studying it, despite there being an entire field of psychology completely dedicated to consciousness. Theoretical psychology can be extremely beneficial because it brings together scientific ideas and philosophical ideas of psychology. Integrating these ideas contributes to the knowledge of psychology.\n\nThe fields of humanistic and existential, as well as the Social Constructionist perspective of psychology, all have been fundamental to some of the first theoretical ideas as it pertains to modern theoretical psychology. Today, there are many journals that include theoretical articles. These journals include the following:\n\n"}
