{"id": "23193325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23193325", "title": "Abai Kazakh National Pedagogical University", "text": "Abai Kazakh National Pedagogical University\n\nAbai Kazakh National Pedagogical University is one of the leading institutes in Central Asia. It is situated in the heart of Almaty City, Kazakhstan. In 2003 Abai University had a record enrollment of more than 23,000 students, mostly from Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries.\n\nThe first Kazakh institute of higher learning, which was named Kazakh State University, on September 1, 1928. It had one unique faculty - pedagogical with three separations:\n\nIt was assumed to create other three faculties: pedagogical, agricultural and medical. They were supposed to work from 1932-1933. On behalf of intensive development of folk education newly opened institute of higher education decided to develop as an independent pedagogical college. Therefore, in 1930 the university was renamed as Kazakh State Pedagogical College (KAZPI), and in 1935 it was renamed as Abai State University and when expanded its fields of studies in 1989 it was named just Abai University as there were more courses than technical education.\nToday's Abai University started its work in a small one-story building of Vernenskoy as a Women's School.\n\n\nThe university was the first Kazakh university to start a distance learning programme in 2001. Today the University is offering more than 12 degree programmes and 11 certificate programmes through DL, which are accessible online in Russian language and Kazakh language as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "49232769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49232769", "title": "Anna Korondi", "text": "Anna Korondi\n\nAnna Korondi (born 1969) is a Hungarian soprano in opera and concert. She has been an Academic voice teacher at the Hochschule für Musik Hanns Eisler in Berlin from 2013.\n\nBorn in Budapest to , Korondi first studied voice in Budapest. She continued her studies at the Vienna Conservatory with Margarethe Bence and David Lutz, and graduated with distinction in 1993. She was engaged at the Komische Oper in Berlin from 1993 to 1997, then at the Bonn Opera to 1999. She appeared at the Bavarian State Opera singing the leading role of Adela in the premiere of Aribert Reimann's \"Bernarda Albas Haus\", an opera after Lorca's play \"La Casa de Bernarda Alba\", directed by Harry Kupfer and conducted by Zubin Mehta. She performed at the 2001 Salzburg Festival the part of Adele in \"Die Fledermaus\" by Johann Strauss, directed by Hans Neuenfels and conducted by Marc Minkowski. She appeared as Zdenka in \"Arabella\" by Richard Strauss at the Bavarian State Opera in 2006. Roles by Mozart have included Ilia in \"Idomeneo\", Susanna in \"Le nozze di Figaro\", Zerlina in \"Don Giovanni\", Servilia in \"La clemenza di Tito\" and Pamina in \"Die Zauberflöte\". She also appeared as Nanetty in Verdi's \"Falstaff\", Musetta in Puccini's \"La bohéme\" and Valenciennes in Lehar's \"Die lustige Witwe\", among others.\n\nKorondi appeared at the Bayreuth Festival as a Flower Maiden in Wagner's \"Parsifal\", first in 2004 in the production by Christoph Schlingensief, conducted by Pierre Boulez, then in 2008 in the production by Stefan Herheim.\n\nKorondi won the ARD International Music Competition in 1996. She has been an Academic voice teacher at the Hochschule für Musik Hanns Eisler in Berlin from 2013.\n"}
{"id": "4808443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4808443", "title": "Atlantis Underwater Tycoon", "text": "Atlantis Underwater Tycoon\n\nAtlantis Underwater Tycoon is an underwater city-building simulation game in which the player acts as a tycoon to simulate the real-time design and management of an underwater civilization. It was developed and published by Activision Value, and released on March 21, 2003 for Microsoft Windows on the PC.\n\n\"Atlantis Underwater Tycoon\" was the first building sim to be set underwater.\n\nIn \"Atlantis Underwater Tycoon\", the player can choose to play in missions or in a sandbox-environment map to start building their underwater colony. The player chooses a tycoon character to play as who comes with their own positive and negative traits, such as providing bonus starting money, or having a disreputable attitude towards sea life.\n\nThe player starts on the ocean floor with a home base and a set amount of money. The player then expands the underwater colony by constructing various residential, utility, commercial, industrial, tourist, and military buildings that extend outward from the home base in a design conducive to the ocean floor, linking them with air tubes, and terraforming the seabed if needed. The player is able to collect and store items produced by commercial and industrial buildings in warehouses and sell them off in a market. The player can also breed new wildlife to live in the city's waters, such as dolphins or sharks, as well as create underwater vehicles to roam around the city. As the city grows, a wider range of buildings and residents become available. Such buildings include whale sanctuaries, sea turtle aquariums, shopping malls, oil drills, and prison facilities. New and better buildings bring in more citizens and tourists, generating more income for the city. Over time, buildings nearing their life expectancies can be demolished to make room for new buildings. In the late stages of the game, the player can unlock the ability to build Atlantean structures.\n\nIn addition to having to manage the economic aspects of the game, the player must also contend with attacks from enemy pirates and from enemy Atlanteans, as well as deal with underwater natural disasters. Military vessels and friendly Atlantean defenders can be recruited to defend against such attacks. Military buildings, such as sonic cannons and missile turrets, can be manned by the player to shoot projectiles at hostile vessels and destructive debris to destroy them.\n\nOn the whole, the player prevents the city from falling into harm by keeping a watchful eye out for enemy invaders and natural disasters, while managing the city's businesses so that population happiness, tourism, and sea life can prosper, all the while avoiding the city plunging into financial trouble.\n\n\"Atlantis Underwater Tycoon\" has been praised for its well-done visuals and its snappy underwater music track. The ability to see into buildings and view the people within nightclubs and movie theaters is also a nice plus. The visual depiction of night and day from the rays of light shining down on the city also provides for a nice ambiance effect. The top moments in the game can be attributed to the times when a player's prospering city \"[comes] under attack from enemy subs, and the player reacts to mount a counter-attack to avoid all the player's hard work from being obliterated.\"\n\nOne reviewer says that the game's biggest weakness lay in its lack of variety in building models and resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "29870723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29870723", "title": "Boeing Technical Fellowship", "text": "Boeing Technical Fellowship\n\nThe Boeing Technical Fellowship program is a highly selective technical leadership career path at The Boeing Company, similar in nature to the IBM Fellows program. Established in 1989, the role of the engineers and scientists serving as Technical Fellows is to set technical direction for Boeing, and to resolve issues that arise when the company creates new products. There are three levels in the Boeing Technical Fellowship program, each level reflecting varying degrees of impact within the company and in the industry at large: Associate Technical Fellow, Technical Fellow, and Senior Technical Fellow.\n\nElection into the Technical Fellowship follows a formal process. Prospective Technical Fellows are nominated by management, and evaluated by the program based on five criteria:\nIf the candidate shows strength in these areas, the candidate is then interviewed by a board. If the results of the interview are positive, the candidate advances to the Chief technology officer's office, for review and approval. As a result of the vetting process, the program includes only approximately 1.5% of Boeing’s workforce and represents “some of the best engineering and scientific minds at Boeing and in the industry.”\n\n"}
{"id": "2446647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2446647", "title": "Casebook", "text": "Casebook\n\nA casebook is a type of textbook used primarily by students in law schools. Rather than simply laying out the legal doctrine in a particular area of study, a casebook contains excerpts from legal cases in which the law of that area was applied. It is then up to the student to analyze the language of the case in order to determine what rule was applied and how the court applied it. Casebooks sometimes also contain excerpts from law review articles and legal treatises, historical notes, editorial commentary, and other related materials to provide background for the cases.\n\nThe teaching style based on casebooks is known as the casebook method and is supposed to instill in law students how to \"think like a lawyer.\" The casebook method is most often used in law schools in countries with common law legal systems, where case law is a major source of law.\n\nMost casebooks are authored by law professors, usually with two, three, or four authors, at least one of whom will be a professor at the top of his or her field in the area under discussion. New editions of casebooks often retain the names of famous professors on their covers decades after those professors have died. Updating of the books, then, falls on the shoulders of a younger generation of their colleagues. Such casebooks are often known by the names of the leading professor authors, such as Prosser, Wade, & Schwartz's, \"Torts: Cases & Materials\" (now in a 13th edition).\n\nThe leading publishers of casebooks in the United States are Thomson West (publisher of the Foundation Press and American Casebook Series imprints), Aspen Publishing, and LexisNexis. Each of these publishers uses a quickly identifiable color and pattern for their book covers across all subjects. Traditionally, the covers of casebooks come in the colors red, blue, or brown, although West's American Casebook Series has switched to faded black cloth as an environmental move.\n\nThe prevalence of the casebook method in American law schools has given rise to a market for commercial study aids \"keyed\" to a particular casebook edition. These study aids are generally summaries (\"briefs\") of the cases from the casebook to which it is \"keyed,\" presenting them in the same order as the casebook. Often written by the same author who wrote the associated casebook, and published by the same company, \"keyed\" study aids are useful in distilling cases down to black-letter law. Popular study aid product lines include Legalines, High Court Case Summaries, and Gilbert Law Summaries published by West Thomson Reuters, Casenotes Legal Briefs by Aspen, and the Understanding series and Q&A series by LexisNexis.\n\n"}
{"id": "6799994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6799994", "title": "Colin Rowe", "text": "Colin Rowe\n\nColin Rowe (27 March 1920 – 5 November 1999), was a British-born, American-naturalised architectural historian, critic, theoretician, and teacher; acknowledged as a major intellectual influence on world architecture and urbanism in the second half of the twentieth century and beyond, particularly in the fields of city planning, regeneration, and urban design. During his life he taught briefly at the University of Texas at Austin and, for one year, at the University of Cambridge in England. For the majority of his life he taught as a Professor at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. In 1995 he was awarded the Gold Medal by the Royal Institute of British Architects, the professional group's highest honor.\n\nColin Frederick Rowe was born in Rotherham, England in 1920 to Frederick W. and Helena (neé Beaumount)Rowe. Rowe's father was a school teacher and his only sibling David was born in October 1928. Rowe was a clever child winning scholarships to the local Grammar School and later to the University of Liverpool to study architecture. He was called up in December 1942 and was enlisted in the British Royal Airforce. He badly injured his spine in a practice jump and was left hospitalised for more than six months. One of the first letters from Rowe published in \"The Letters of Colin Rowe: Five Decades of Correspondence\" was written from his hospital bed to his friend and colleague at the University Ursula Mercer. \n\nHis 1945 MA thesis for Rudolf Wittkower at the Warburg Institute, London, was a theoretical speculation that Inigo Jones may have intended to publish a theoretical treatise on architecture, analogous to Palladio's \"Four Books of Architecture\". Although this idea was not supported by any hard evidence and could not ever be proven, encouraged by Wittkower it established Rowe's way of speculating and imagining what \"might\" have happened: an approach to the history of architecture that was largely imaginary and factually questionable, but which he gradually built into a vastly erudite, coherently argued way of thinking and seeing that exasperated conventional historians, but became the inspiration for a generation of practising architects to consider history imaginatively, as an active component in their design process.\nRowe's original approach was based on making comparisons between cultural events that conventional history kept widely separated and categorised, but which he unearthed from his vast personal erudition (in constant development) and placed together for comparison. His unorthodox and non-chronological view of history then made it possible for him to develop theoretical speculations such as his famous essay \"The Mathematics of the Ideal Villa\" (1947) in which he theorised that there were compositional \"rules\" in Palladio’s villas that could be demonstrated to correspond to similar \"rules\" in Le Corbusier’s villas at Poissy and Garches. Although like his MA thesis, this proposal was impossible to support with any evidence, as a speculation it enabled Rowe to elaborate an astonishingly fresh and provocative trans-historical critique of both Palladio and Le Corbusier, in which the architecture of both was assessed not in chronological time, but side by side in the present moment.\n\nThe originality of this approach had the effect of re-situating the assessment of modern architecture within history and acknowledged history as an active influence. Many years later when Rowe's influence had spread worldwide, this approach had become a key element in the process of architectural and urban design: if \"the presence of the past\" was evident in the work of many architects in the late 20th. century, from James Stirling to Aldo Rossi, Robert Venturi, Oswald Matthias Ungers, Peter Eisenman, Michael Graves and others, this was largely due to the influence of Rowe. More recently, theorists and critics of the digital turn in architecture stressed the need to update Rowe's method for the present. \n\nBetween 1950-52, as a tutor at the Liverpool School of Architecture, he inculcated this original approach to modern architecture into the malleable 24-year-old architecture student James Stirling, only six years his junior. In Rowe’s view, by that time modernism in architecture was already finished; what was intended to be a revolution had failed, but in Stirling he had found the means to create a new type of \"modernist neo-classicist\" architect; the two became lifelong friends, and all of Stirling's work in architectural practice was deeply indebted to Rowe's more or less continuous critical input. It has often been said that Stirling was \"Rowe's draughtsman\".\nBetween the 1950s and his death, Rowe published a number of widely influential papers that influenced architecture by further developing the theory that there is a conceptual relationship between modernity and tradition, specifically Classicism in its various manifestations, and Modern Movement \"white architecture\" of the 1920s - a viewpoint first put forward by Emil Kaufmann in his classic book \"Von Ledoux bis Le Courbusier\" (1933). Although he remained an admirer of the achievements of the 1920s modernists, chiefly in the work of Le Corbusier, Rowe also subjected the modern movement, which he considered a failure, to subversive modes of criticism and interpretation.\n\nRowe was among the first to openly denounce the failures of modernist urban planning and its destructive effects on the historic city; many of his most important books and essays are in fact more concerned with urban form than with architectural language. This early work, led to the contextualism school of thought which was likewise critical of modern urban design and architectural theory of design wherein modern building types are harmonized with urban forms usual to a traditional city.\n\nRowe was the Andrew Dickson White Professor of Architecture at Cornell University, where he taught from 1962 until his retirement in 1990. In the course of his brilliant and very influential academic career he focused on developing an alternative method of urban design derived in part from the earlier work of Camillo Sitte but largely original, and based on the making of cities through a process of collaged, superimposed pieces; the ideal model for this pragmatic, anti-doctrinaire approach was the ruined villa of the Roman Emperor Hadrian at Tivoli, outside Rome.\n1n 1981 he started the Cornell Journal of Architecture and contributed to issue 1 with \"The Present Urban Predicament\" and to issue 2 with \"Program vs. Paradigm.\"\n\nHis chief significance was as a teacher and writer on these subjects, which greatly influenced architectural thinking. His book \"Collage City\" (with Fred Koetter) is his theoretical treatise that sets out various analyses of urban form in a number of existing cities known to be aesthetically successful, examining their actually existing urban structure as found, revealing it to be the end product of a ceaseless process of fragmentation, the collision/superimposition/contamination of many diverse ideas imposed on it by successive generations, each with its own idea. In architecture his thinking paralleled his ideas about the city: he was nostalgic for nineteenth-century eclecticism, advocating that architecture in the modern age should abandon its purist abstraction and allow itself to be influenced by influxes of historical references.\n\nPhilosophically, Rowe's conviction that pragmatic, discrete, and episodic ideas are more meaningful and useful than totalising, overarching, all-inclusive concepts led him towards the political right, and to such philosophers as Isaiah Berlin and Karl Popper; but paradoxically this also situated his thinking in the same general zone as left-leaning philosophers like Gianni Vattimo.\nAs he continued to publish ground-breaking, intellectually rich, unconventional essays on the history and theory of architecture, and became a permanent resident of the United States (becoming a US citizen towards the end of his life) he went on to influence many other architects, students, and architectural educators during the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s (in 1966 he served as a fellow at the Graham Foundation in Chicago) at a time when there was a move towards Postmodern architecture with which he may be partly associated - though only to a very limited extent, and only in a philosophical sense, since his intellectual range, and his all-inclusive interest in every movement and style of architecture, placed him far outside any particular stylistic category. Rowe died at the age of 79 on 5 November 1999 in Arlington County, Virginia. A memorial program was held in his honor on 6 February 2000 at The Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington, DC.\n\nColin Rowe's seminal essay went through five printings in four years and was titled \"The Mathematics of the Ideal Villa.\" The text was printed both in essay form and in book form under the same title along with eight other comparably supportive essays. In this essay, Rowe presented his original view of the direct comparative reading of modern architecture alongside neo-Classical architecture. This approach was not generally done or accepted in the architectural literature of the time when the essay was first published in 1976. Rowe asserted the basis of a direct comparison of a villa by Le Corbusier and a villa by Andrea Palladio from the 16th century. Rowe's choice was to place Palladio's masterpiece from the 1550s called the Malcontenta (Villa Foscari) into direct comparison with Le Corbusier's villa at Garches for Mr. and Mrs. Michael Stein. Rowe's argument began by asserting that both Garches and the Malcontenta are conceived of as single blocks of roughly identical volumes measuring \"8 units in length, by 5 1/2 in breadth, by 5 in height.\" Rowe then observes that \"Each house exhibits an alternative rhythm of double and single intervals; and each house ... displays a comparable tripartite distribution of line of support.\" As Rowe summarizes: \"Palladio is concerned with a logical disposition of motifs dogmatically accepted ... while Le Corbusier ... contrasts the new system with the old and is a little more comprehensive.\"\n\nRowe continues on in the essay to conclude that, \"If Le Corbusier's facades are for him the primary demonstrations of the virtues of a mathematical discipline, with Palladio it would seem that the ultimate proof of his theory lies in his plan ... (At Malcontenta) [t]he facades become complicated, their strict Platonic rationale may be ultimately vitiated by the traditional presence ... of the Ionic order which possesses its own rationale and which inevitable introduces an alternative system of measurement.\" In the end of his essay, Rowe transfers his approach to the shared sympathy of Le Corbusier and Palladio for the mathematical description of the ideal villa by discussing the Villa Savoye in comparison to Palladio's Villa Rotonda, which he sees as analogous. In his famous closing quote, Rowe gives his highest compliment to both Palladio and Le Corbusier together stating that Palladio and Le Corbusier had \"become the source of innumerable pastiches and of tediously amusing exhibition techniques; but it is the magnificently realized quality of the originals which one rarely finds in the works of neo-Palladians and exponents of 'le style Corbu'\". For Rowe, in the end these two master architects would have the more enduring word on the mathematics of the ideal villa than the majority of their followers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38051091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38051091", "title": "Craftsy", "text": "Craftsy\n\nCraftsy is an online platform based in Denver, Colorado that delivers crafts education, from quilting and knitting to cake decorating and paper craft, via high-definition interactive video tutorials and downloadable workshops. It also offers community project forums and craft supplies, including independent designer patterns. It was launched by the company Sympoz Inc in July 2011, and within a year Craftsy had attracted over half a million enrollments. On May 10, 2017, NBCUniversal announced that it had acquired Craftsy.\n\nCraftsy parent company Sympoz Inc was founded in April 2010 by former eBay executives John Levisay and Josh Scott, Yahoo! exec Andrew Rogers, plus Todd Tobin and Bret Hanna. It raised $15 million in an angel round of funding from Access Venture Partners, Foundry Group, Harrison Metal and Tiger Global Management, launching the website just over a year later. By September 2012, the company estimated that an average of 1,600 people a day were signing up for Craftsy courses.\n\nIn November 2014, Craftsy raised $50 million in its fourth round of financing, bringing the company's total funding to almost $100 million. NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment Group agreed to purchase a majority stake in the company from equity firms in May 2017. Catherine Balsam-Schwaber was hired as the general manager Craftsy from her position as chief creative officer at Mattel Creation.\n\nThe company says that its most popular classes are in quilting, while cake decorating is showing the fastest growth. Craftsy uses social media, such as Facebook to attract new customers, also posting excerpts of classes on YouTube. Nearly all customers are female and 80% are aged over 40.\n\n"}
{"id": "7033526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7033526", "title": "Dava Newman", "text": "Dava Newman\n\nDava J. Newman (born 1964) is a former Deputy Administrator of NASA. Newman earned her Ph.D. in aerospace biomedical engineering, and Master of Science degrees in aerospace engineering and technology and policy all from MIT, and her Bachelor of Science degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Notre Dame. Newman is the Apollo Program Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Harvard–MIT Health, Sciences, and Technology faculty member in Cambridge, MA. She is also a MacVicar Faculty Fellow (awarded for contributions to undergraduate education), former Director of the Technology and Policy Program at MIT (2003–2015), and former Director of the MIT–Portugal Program (2011–2015). As the Director of MIT’s Technology and Policy Program (TPP), she led the Institute’s largest multidisciplinary graduate research program, with over 1,200 alumni. She has been a faculty member in her home department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and MIT’s School of Engineering since 1993.\n\nNewman’s research expertise is in aerospace biomedical engineering, investigating human performance in varying gravity environments. Newman was the principal investigator on four spaceflight missions. The Space Shuttle Dynamic Load Sensors (DLS) experiment measured astronaut-induced disturbances of the microgravity environment on mission STS-62. The Enhanced Dynamic Load Sensors experiment flew on board the Mir Space Station from 1996–1998. Newman was a Co-Investigator on the Mental Workload and Performance Experiment (MWPE) that flew on STS-42 to measure astronaut mental workload and fine motor control in microgravity. She also developed the MICR0-G space flight experiment to provide a sensor suite and study human adaptation in extreme environments. She was the MIT Principal Investigator on the Gravity Loading Countermeasure Suit, or Skinsuit, which flew the International Space Station as an ESA technology demonstration from 2015 to 2017.\n\nNewman is best known for promoting the development of space activity suits, namely the BioSuit, which would provide pressure through compression directly on the skin via the suit's textile weave, patterning, and materials rather than with pressurized gas. The suit is designed to help astronauts move around more easily than gas-filled suits allow. These spacesuit technologies are now being applied to \"soft suits\" to study and enhance locomotion on Earth. Newman is the author of \"Interactive Aerospace Engineering and Design\", an introductory engineering textbook, has published more than 300 papers in journals and refereed conferences, and holds numerous compression technology patents.\n\nIn October 2014, Newman was nominated by President Barack Obama as Deputy Administrator of NASA, but the U.S. Senate returned the nomination to the President in December 2014 when the 113th Congress adjourned without having confirmed her for the position. Under Senate rules, in order for Newman to be confirmed, Obama needed to re-nominate her to the Senate of the 114th Congress, and he did so on January 8, 2015. Her confirmation hearing before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation was held March 25, 2015, and the Committee unanimously recommended approval by the full Senate. She was confirmed by the Senate on April 27, 2015. She resigned the position upon the end of the Obama administration on January 20, 2017.\n\nSelect honors include the NASA Distinguished Service Medal (2017), Women in Aerospace Leadership Award (2017), and the Aerospace Medical Association’s Henry L. Taylor Award for Outstanding Accomplishment in Aerospace Human Factors (2017). Her BioSuit spacesuit system has been exhibited at the Venice Biennial (2015), the American Museum of Natural History (2012), the Victoria and Albert and Museum, London (2012), the Paris City Museum of Science and Industry (2010), the London Museum of Science and Industry (2009), and the Metropolitan Museum of Art (2008). She was awarded Best Invention of 2007 by \"Time\" Magazine, named in 100 Extraordinary Women Engineers in 2004, and received the Women in Aerospace National Aerospace Educator Award (2001). \n\nNewman is a former housemaster of MIT's Baker House.\n\nNewman, D.J., Interactive Aerospace Engineering and Design, Introductory engineering textbook with accompanying interactive CD-ROM, McGraw-Hill, Inc., January 2002.\n\nSaleh, J.H., Hastings, D.E., and D.J. Newman, \"Weaving Time into System Architecture: Satellite Cost per Operational Day and Optimal Design Lifetime,\" Acta Astronautica, 54:413-431, 2004.\n\nFerguson, P. A., Krebs, C. P., Stirling, L. A., Newman, D. J., “Kinetic and Kinematic Sensing System for the MICRO-G /Adapt International Space Station Experiment”, IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, June, 2006.\n\nJordan, N. C., Saleh, J. H., Newman, D. J., “The extravehicular mobility unit: A review of environment, requirements, and design changes in the US spacesuit”, Acta Astronautica, Volume 59, Issue 12, Pages 1135-1145, July 2006.\n\nNewman, D.J., Canina, M. Trotti, G.L., “Revolutionary Design for Astronaut Exploration – Beyond the Bio-Suit”, CP880, Space Technology and Applications International Forum—STAIF-2007, Albuquerque, NM, February 11–15, 2007.\n\nCarr, C. E., Newman, D. J., “Space Suit Bioenergetics: Framework and Analysis of Unsuited and Suited Activity”, Aviation, Space Environmental Medicine, 78:1013-1022, 2007.\n\nJohnson, A.W., Hoffman, J.A., Newman, D.J., Mazarico, E.M., and Zuber, M.T., \"An Integrated Traverse Planner and Analysis Tool for Future Planetary Exploration\", AIAA 2010-8829, SPACE 2010, Anaheim, CA, 2010.\n\nStirling, L., Newman, D.J., Willcox, K., “Self-Rotations in Simulated Microgravity: Performance Effects of Strategy Training\" Journal of Aviation, Space Environmental Medicine, vol. 80 no. 1, pp. 5–14, 2009.\n\nStirling, L., Willcox, K., Newman, D., “Development of a Computational Model for Astronaut Reorientation”, Journal of Biomechanics, Vol. 43, Issue 12, pp. 2309–2314, August 2010.\n\nR. A. Opperman, J. M. Waldie, A. Natapoff, D. J. Newman, J. A. Jones, “Probability of Spacesuit-Induced Fingernail Trauma is associated with Hand Circumference,” J Aviat, Space Env Med, 81, 907-913, 2010.\n\nWagner, E.B., Granzella, N.P., Saito, N., Newman, D.J., Young, L.R., Bouxsein, M.L., “Partial weight Suspension: A Novel Murine Model for Investigation Adaptation to Reduce Musculoskeletal Loading”, J Applied Physiology, 109:350-357, 2010.\n\nWaldie, J., Newman, D., “A Gravity Loading Countermeasure Skinsuit”, Acta Astronautica, 68(7-8):722-730, 2011.\n\nPfotenhauer, Sebastian M., et al. \"Seeding Change through International University Partnerships: The MIT-Portugal Program as a Driver of Internationalization, Networking, and Innovation.\" Higher Education Policy, 2012.\n\nWessendorf, A.M. and Newman, D.J., Dynamic Understanding of Human-Skin Movement and Strain-Field Analysis, IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 59(12):3432-3438, 2012.\n\nDuda, K., Vasquez, R., Newman, D.J., “Variable Vector Countermeasure Suit (V2Suit) for Space Exploration\", IEEE Explore, 978-1-4673-1813-6, 2013.\nHolschuh, B., Obropta, E., Newman, D.J., \"Low Spring Index NiTi Coil Actuators for Use in Active Compression Garments, IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, 20(3):1264-1277, 2015.\n\nMelo, P., Silva, M., Martins, J., and Newman, D.J., \"Technical Developments of Functional Electrical Stimulation to Correct Drop Foot: Sensing, Actuation and Control Strategies\", Journal of Clinical Biomechanics, 30(2):101-113, 2015.\n\nHolschuh, B., and Newman, D. \"Two-Spring Model for Active Compression Textiles with Integrated NiTi Coil Actuators,\" Smart Mater. Struct. 24, 2015. \nAnderson, Y. Menguc, R. Wood, D. Newman, Development of the Polipo Pressure Sensing System for Dynamic Space-Suited Motion, IEEE Sensors Journal, Vol. 15(11):6229-6237, 2015.\n\nP. L. Melo, M. T. Silva, J. M. Martins, D. J. Newman, A Microcontroller Platform for The Rapid Prototyping of Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES)-based Gait Neuroprostheses, Artif Organs, 39(5):E56-66, May 2015.\n\nB Holschuh, D Newman, Morphing Compression Garments for Space Medicine and Extravehicular Activity Using Active Materials, Aerospace Medicine and Human Performance 87 (2), 84-92, 2016.\n\nNewman, D.J., Wood, D., Roos, D., Pfotenhauer., S., Architecting complex international science, technology and innovation partnerships (CISTIPs): A study of four global MIT collaborations, Technological Forecasting and Social Change, Volume 104, March 2016, Pages 38–56.\n\nWood, D. and Newman, D. “The Innovation Landscape within a Large Government Agency: Promising Practices from the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)”, 67th International Astronautical Congress, Guadalajara, Mexico, Sept. 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "49199476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49199476", "title": "Dekemhare Comprehensive Secondary School", "text": "Dekemhare Comprehensive Secondary School\n\nDekemhare Comprehensive Secondary School (Tigrinya: ቤትትምህርቲ ካልኣይ ደረጃ ደቀምሓረ) is a public secondary school located in Dekemhare, Eritrea. It was constructed in 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "22404734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22404734", "title": "Duisenberg School of Finance", "text": "Duisenberg School of Finance\n\nDuisenberg School of Finance (DSF) was an educational organization in the Netherlands which offered Master's level education in finance between 2008 and 2015. The school was initiated as a collaborative initiative of Dutch the financial sector with local and international academic institutions. Amongst others, the founders of the initiative were Nout Wellink and Minister of the Economic Affairs, Maria van der Hoeven. The name was chosen by the founders to honor Wim Duisenberg, the first President of the European Central Bank. \n\nThe annual enrollment accounted for around one hundred students. An administrative staff of eighteen faculty members was created with the support of the partnering institutions, amongst others Dutch Central Bank, ING and APG. The university is located in the Symphony offices in the Amsterdam financial district Zuidas. The campus of the school is in the Symphony Offices building. The board of directors and the executive fellowship at DSF are also executive board directors at largest financial institutions in Netherlands. In 2015, Dutch Center for Higher Education Information (Dutch: Centrum Hoger Onderwijs Informatie) has ranked LLM Finance and Law programme as the highest ranking professional program in Netherlands\n\nAs of fall 2015, the program of Duisenberg School of Financed is integrated into the school programs of Vrije Universiteit and University of Amsterdam. The program has been named Duisenberg Honors Program at VU and UVA.\n\nThe school offers Masters of Science in four major tracks, amongst them the LLM program in Finance. The program is designed as an expedited and intensive training in finance and law, taught by an international faculty. Masters courses are designed for MSc in Risk Management, Financial Markets & Regulation, Corporate Finance & Banking and Masters in Finance LLM track.\n\nDuisenberg School of Finance brings academic and industry perspectives together in order to move towards sustainable operation of the financial sector. The school aims to contribute to the creation of a favorable investment climate for financial institutions in the Netherlands.\n\nOn September 7, 2008 several major Dutch financial services companies signed an agreement to partner in financing the operation of DSF. Executive management, including the governmental officials, have seats on the board of DSF or act as the executive fellows. DSF was founded as a collaborative effort of academic researchers, financial companies, legal firms and governmental organizations.\n\nCourses are typically taught by visiting faculty. Academics from, amongst others, University of Amsterdam (UvA), Vrije Universiteit (VU), work on collaborative research projects with financial practitioners.\nPeriodically the lectures are taught by executive management of the partnering financial institutions. DSF Policy Briefs are designed together with regulators, professionals from the industry and policymakers. Articles that meet the school research criteria are published in the public domain. Students and faculty publish research papers aimed at critically reassessing the contemporary regulatory environment and efficiency of the financial sector. The Tinbergen Institute cooperates with DSF to work on collaborative research projects.\n\nThe faculty at DSF are full-time professors and researchers at the partnering institutions.\n\n\n\nThe public lectures are organized by the industry partners.\n\n\nThe school has on average 90 students with approximately 25 students per program. Master's students either study full-time or part-time. The majority of the students are international students, and the average age is between 26 and 28. As part of coursework students normally complete an internship in finance or a related field, traditionally with one of the partnering institutions.\n\nThe Higher School of Economics has a dual-Masters agreement with DSF and annually 5-10% of the student body is from Russia. Other students come from India, China, Africa, Indonesia, USA, Latin America, Students from The Netherlands represent around 30-35% of the student body.\n\nIt is DSF tradition to open the academic year with one of the students ringing the bell at NYSE Euronext.\nDuisenberg school of finance hosts public debates on topics related to international finance, economics and banking. The debates feature speakers and panelists from DNB, EIOPA and IMF, amongst others. The results of these public debates are frequently used by participating financial service companies as external communications tools.\nThe network of the industry practitioners from the partnering institutions collaborates with the school and each other with the Executive Fellows program. The Executive Fellows work closely with the school research for seeking the solutions to contemporary developments (and challenges) of the finance industry. Herman Mulder, a prominent figure in the fields of sustainability was an Executive Fellow at DSF until the school integration into the VU/UVA honorary program in October 2015.\n\nDuisenberg school of finance offers the Wim Duisenberg (EU) Scholarship, Thesis Competition, Dutch Board Member Leadership Award, Woman in Finance Scholarship, Country Specific Scholarships, Orange Tulip and the ING Loan Scheme. Duisenberg Battle winners are awarded scholarships as well.\n\nBoth the MSc and LLM programmes of DSF are accredited by the NVAO (Accreditation Organisation of the Netherlands and Flanders).\n\nDuisenberg school of finance, University of Amsterdam (UvA) and the Free University of Amsterdam (VU) have signed a letter of intent to collectively set up the Amsterdam Universities Business School (AUBS). The three parties closely collaborate in order to create an Amsterdam-based international business school, operating in the fields of accounting, business, finance and law. In the fall of 2014 the DSF board took a decision to integrate the existing Master's programs with partnering academic institutions. As of September 1, 2015, DSF was integrated into the economics and business faculties at the UvA and VU.\n"}
{"id": "17979869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17979869", "title": "Dunn Fellowship", "text": "Dunn Fellowship\n\nThe James H. Dunn Memorial Fellowship Program, often referred to as the Dunn Fellow Program or the Dunn Fellowship, is a year-long governmental honors fellowship program in Illinois. The fellowship affords recent college graduates from every state the opportunity to experience and gain first-hand knowledge of Illinois State government and general governmental structure at the executive level. Successful candidates are offered fellowships with the Illinois Office of the Governor in both Chicago and Springfield, Illinois and in Washington, D.C.\n\nDunn Fellows work directly with management staff in the Office of the Governor and generally gain a broad perspective of the operation of state government. Many fellows upon completion of their year will move on to careers in state government as administrators or other management roles.\n\nThe Governor's Yearlong Fellowship Program was established in 1979, which was later renamed the James H. Dunn Memorial Fellowship Program in 1981 by Executive Order 7. This change honored James H. Dunn, a Rockford, Illinois citizen for his outstanding commitment to public service.\n\nExecutive Order 3 in 1986 brought all fellowship and internship programs administered by the Office of the Governor under the aegis of the Prescott E. Bloom Internships in Government Program. According to the Dunn Fellowship application, \"No one understood the benefit of government internship programs to both the State and the individual better than State Senator Prescott E. Bloom. From 1976 until his premature death in 1986, Senator Bloom sponsored his own annual internships, which successfully introduced hundreds of high school and college students to the inside of state government.\" \n\nThe fellowship's purpose is to develop college graduates who have demonstrated a commitment to academic excellence and community involvement into capable leaders. Fellows are given the opportunity to develop skills in program budgeting, legislation, communication, and research, all of which are strongly demonstrated by successful public administrators. The program addresses the public sector's future need of competent and committed administrators by training these young adults in the operations of state government. Over the course of the fellowship year, the program provides a public sector management training program encouraging fellows to remain in a career oriented toward public service.\n\nIn addition, the program enables college graduates to supplement their academic backgrounds, providing them with an opportunity to develop their professional and leadership skills. Also, the program helps to achieve state affirmative action goals through the nomination of qualified minorities, women, and persons with disabilities.\n\nThe Dunn Fellowship Program is now administered by the Illinois Department of Central Management Services. Dunn Fellows, however, receive placements as fellows in the Office of the Governor and they are assigned Governor's Office supervisors and represent the Governor's Office as full-time staff during their fellowship.\n\nOn July 15, 2009 the Dunn Fellowship was cut from the Fiscal Year 2010 budget by Governor Pat Quinn. After an outpouring of support, the program was restored in August 2009.\n\nSelection of each incoming class of Dunn Fellows is highly competitive. Applicants typically demonstrate strong performance in areas of academic achievement, community leadership and involvement, extracurricular activities, and career development. While there is no minimum GPA to apply, successful candidates normally appear in the upper percentiles of their graduating classes.\n\nMinimum criteria for applying to the Dunn Fellowship Program are as follows:\n\nThere are no preferences to academic majors or programs of study when considering candidates for fellowships. However, certain programs tend to offer training and experience in areas valuable to fellows. Successful candidates usually have participated in programs that encourage academic rigor, analytical skills, public policy research, and critical thinking.\n\nAfter the application deadline has passed, senior members of the Governor's Office and Illinois Department of Central Management Services, Personnel Division will review applications and select approximately 50 candidates for in-person interviews. Fellowships will be awarded shortly after interviews are completed. Approximately 19 fellowships are awarded each year.\n\nFellows are classified as full-time employees with the Illinois State Government. Fellows work in a variety of policy areas and administrative teams, directly assisting with the day-to-day operations of the State. Throughout the program history, fellows have either been assigned a work post for an entire year, allowing the fellow to specialize in one specific area of government administration, or fellows have cycled through a variety of posts throughout their fellowship (i.e. changing posts after each 3-month period to receive a broad view of governance.) \n\nFellows have typically worked in all departments and teams of the Office of the Governor, including press, policy development, staff support, outreach programs, legislative affairs, and budget. It is the goal of the program to give fellows the necessary experience to become competent public sector administrators, which is accomplished in part by giving fellows a broad perspective in state government to help achieve this goal.\n\nThroughout the program's history, Dunn Fellows have also done a variety of activities together including participation in leadership and career development seminars, community service projects and volunteerism, and tours and group outings. \n\nMany Dunn Fellow alumni are promoted within state government to posts involving management of staff and individual projects. In addition, a good portion of Dunn Fellows return to graduate school or pursue training programs immediately following the fellowship to assist their career development. The Fellowship is represented throughout the public and private sectors, with many former fellows working at the management level in their respective fields of interest. \n\nAn alumni association is in the formation stage. Its mission will be to connect Dunn Fellow classes, provide networking opportunities, and promote community service among past and current Dunn Fellows.\n"}
{"id": "51769516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51769516", "title": "Ebba Lövenskiold", "text": "Ebba Lövenskiold\n\nEbba Lövenskiold (born October 7, 1977) is a Swedish journalist and education activist. She has been covering film and entertainment for Swedish newspapers and magazines from New York City since 2008.\n\nShe is the Founder of the Together for Better Foundation, a charity working for kid´s right to education. Through the foundation, Ebba builds and supports schools for underprivileged children in the Dominican Republic. Ebba started the project after having vacationed on the island when the devastating earthquake hit Haiti in 2010. The charity funded construction of three schools.\n"}
{"id": "8804717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8804717", "title": "Education (Administrative Provisions) Act 1907", "text": "Education (Administrative Provisions) Act 1907\n\nThe 1907 Education (Administrative Provisions) Act (\"7 Edw. VII\") was an Act of Parliament passed by the Liberal government as part of their Liberal reforms package of welfare reforms. The Act set up school medical services run by local government.\n"}
{"id": "9995894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9995894", "title": "Education Act 1902", "text": "Education Act 1902\n\nThe Education Act 1902 (\"2 Edw. VII\"), also known as the Balfour Act, was a highly controversial Act of Parliament that set the pattern of elementary education in England and Wales for four decades. It was brought to Parliament by a Conservative government and was supported by the Church of England, opposed many by Nonconformists and the Liberal Party. The Act provided funds for denominational religious instruction in voluntary elementary schools, most of which were owned by the Church of England and the Roman Catholics. It reduced the divide between voluntary schools, which were largely administered by the Church of England, and schools provided and run by elected school boards, and reflected the influence of the Efficiency Movement in Britain. It was extended in 1903 to cover London.\n\nThe Act was a short-term political disaster for the Conservatives, who lost massively at the 1906 general election. However, G. R. Searle has argued that it was long-term success. It standardized and upgraded the educational systems of England and Wales and led to a rapid growth of secondary schools, with over 1,000 opening by 1914, including 349 for girls only. The Church schools had financing from local ratepayers and had to meet uniform standards. Eventually, in the Butler Act of 1944, the Anglican schools were brought largely under the control of Local Education Authorities.\n\nThe \"Cockerton Judgment\" of 1901 caused a crisis by undermining the lawfulness of \"higher grade schools\" for children over the age of twelve. A temporary fix allowed the schools to operate one more year. A second issue involved the 14,000 church schools, called \"voluntary schools\", run chiefly by the Church of England and including some Roman Catholic schools. They were poorly funded and did not receive a share of local taxes, but they educated a third of school children.\n\nUnder the 1902 Act the existing overlapping jurisdictions, with 2,568 school boards set up by the Elementary Education Act 1870, as well as all existing School Attendance Committees, were abolished. Their duties were handed over to county councils or county borough councils, as local education authorities (LEAs). The 328 LEAs fixed local tax rates. The LEAs could establish new secondary and technical schools as well as developing the existing system of elementary schools. These LEAs were in charge of paying schoolteachers, ensuring they were properly qualified, and providing necessary books and equipment. They paid the teachers in the church schools, with the churches providing and maintaining the school buildings and providing the religious instruction.\n\nThe Church Party, a Conservative faction strongly supportive of the Church of England, largely shaped Conservative educational policy. Under the leadership of Lord Cranborne, it was determined to stop the spread of secularism in education. With John Gilbert Talbot, Cranborne organized opposition to the Education Department and the radical spokesman Arthur Acland from 1894. They blocked the Education Department's attempts to slow the growth of Anglican schools. They successfully passed the Voluntary Schools Act, an interim measure, in 1897. They demanded long-term legislation in 1897-1901, and scored their great victory in 1902.\n\nThe design and drafting of the Bill was the work of Robert Laurie Morant, a civil servant in the Education Department. He worked closely with Balfour and Church leaders in 1901 .\n\nJoseph Chamberlain's support base was threatened by Balfour's introduction into Parliament of the Education Bill. This Bill was framed with the intention of promoting National Efficiency, a cause which Chamberlain thought worthy. However, the Education Bill proposed to abolish Britain's 2,568 school boards established under W. E. Forster's Elementary Education Act 1870, bodies that were popular with Nonconformists and Radicals. Liberals opposed the Act, arguing that the board schools had outperformed the voluntary Anglican schools. In their place, Balfour proposed to establish local education authorities, which would administer a state-centred system of primary, secondary and technical schools. Furthermore, the Bill would grant ratepayers' money to voluntary Church of England schools. Chamberlain was anxious about the Bill's proposals, aware that they would estrange Nonconformists, Radicals and many Liberal Unionists from the government.\n\nHowever, as Colonial Secretary in the coalition government, Chamberlain could not openly oppose the Bill. Chamberlain warned Robert Laurie Morant about the probability of Nonconformist dissent, asking why voluntary schools could not receive funds from the state rather than from the rates (local property taxes). In response, Morant argued that the Second Boer War had drained the Exchequer of finances.\n\nThe furore over the Education Bill imperilled the Liberal Unionist wing of the government, with the prospect of Nonconformist voters switching allegiance to the Liberal Party. Chamberlain sought to stem the feared exodus by securing a major concession: local authorities would be given discretion over the issue of rate aid to voluntary schools; yet even this was renounced before the guillotining of the Bill and its passage through Parliament in December 1902. Thus Chamberlain had to make the best of a hopeless situation, writing fatalistically that \"I consider the Unionist cause is hopeless at the next election, and we shall certainly lose the majority of the Liberal Unionists once and for all.\" Chamberlain already regarded tariff reform as an issue that could revitalise support for Unionism.\n\nOpposition to the Act came especially from Methodists, Baptists and other nonconformists outraged at support for Anglican and Catholic schools, and angry at losing their powerful role on school boards. Historian Standish Meacham explores their position:\n\nThe Liberal Party led the opposition and made it a major issue especially in the election of 1906; the Labour Movement was mostly opposed. Nonconformist opposition was championed by John Clifford. Clifford formed the National Passive Resistance Committee, which hoped to convince more nonconformists to resist the Act and stop paying their rates until it was repealed. By 1904 over 37,000 summonses for unpaid school taxes were issued, with thousands having their property seized and 80 protesters going to prison. It operated for another decade but had no impact on the school system.\n\nThe Act developed into a major political issue, which contributed significantly to the Liberal Party defeating the Conservatives in the General Election in 1906. The Liberals made a major effort in 1906 to pass the Birrell Educational Bill; it would have ended public support of religious schools. It passed the Commons but was blocked by the House of Lords.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339549", "title": "Education in the United Kingdom", "text": "Education in the United Kingdom\n\nEducation in the United Kingdom is a devolved matter with each of the countries of the United Kingdom having separate systems under separate governments: the UK Government is responsible for England; whilst the Scottish Government, the Welsh Government and the Northern Ireland Executive are responsible for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, respectively. \n\nFor details of education in each region, see:\n\nIn each country there are five stages of education: early years, primary, secondary, further education (FE) and higher education (HE).. The law states that full time education is compulsory for all children between the ages of 5 (4 in Northern Ireland) and 16, the compulsory school age (CSA). In England, compulsory education or training has been extended to 18 for those born on or after 1 September 1997. This full-time education does not need to be at a school and some parents choose to home educate. Before they reach compulsory school age, children can be educated at nursery if parents wish though there is only limited government funding for such places. Further Education is non-compulsory, and covers non-advanced education which can be taken at further (including tertiary) education colleges and Higher Education institutions (HEIs). The fifth stage, Higher Education, is study beyond A levels or BTECs (and their equivalent) which, for most full-time students, takes place in universities and other Higher Education institutions and colleges.\n\nThe National Curriculum (NC), established in 1988, provides a framework for education in England and Wales between the ages of 5 and 18. Though the National Curriculum is not compulsory it is followed by most state schools, but some private schools, academies, free schools and home educators design their own curricula. In Scotland the nearest equivalent is the Curriculum for Excellence programme, and in Northern Ireland there is something known as the common curriculum. The Scottish qualifications the National 4/5s, Highers and Advanced Highers are highly similar to the English Advanced Subsidiary (AS) and Advanced Level (A2) courses.\n\nResearch by Education Support Partnership suggests that 75% of school teachers and college lecturers suffer from work related stress. Increased work pressure from marking and exam targets lead some teachers to work 12 hours a day. Many are leaving the profession due to stress.\n\nSuccessful schools tend to choose pupils from high achieving backgrounds. Pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds and challenging pupils tend to get concentrated in schools that do less well in inspections. Children from prosperous backgrounds are more likely to be in good or outstanding schools while disadvantaged children are more likely to be in inadequate schools. Children with special needs who in theory have a statutory right to have their needs met, are frequently excluded from school and denied their statutory rights.\n\nTraditionally a high-performing country in international rankings of education, the UK has stagnated in recent years in such rankings as the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) tests; in 2013 for reading and maths the country as a whole stood in the middle-rankings, a position broadly similar to three years before. Within the UK Scotland performed marginally better than England; both were slightly ahead of Northern Ireland and markedly ahead of Wales. However these results contradict those of the education and publishing firm Pearson published in 2014, which placed the UK in second place across European countries and sixth worldwide; these rankings took account of higher-education graduate rates, which may have accounted for the higher ranking than in PISA.\n\nIn 2015/16, the UK spent £3.2 billion on under-5s education, £27.7 billion on primary education, £38.2 billion on secondary education and £5.9 billion on tertiary education. In total, the UK spent £83.4 billion on education (includes £8.4 billion on other categories).\n\nDue to funding cuts very many local authorities are unable to provide the specialist education that disabled children with special needs require. Education Secretary, Damian Hinds has been called on to provide funding for this.\n\nMental health problems among youngsters in UK schools are increasing; social media, pressure from schools, austerity and gender expectations are blamed. Teachers' leaders say they feel overwhelmed and cannot cope. Sarah Hannafin of the headteachers' union NAHT, said, \"There is a crisis and children are under increasing amount of pressure … Schools have a key role to play and we are doing what can, but we need more funding.\" Louise Regan of the National Education Union stated, \"Teachers are overwhelmed by the sheer number of students showing signs of mental health problems.\" She added counsellor and pastoral support had been seriously reduced, though money for children's wellbeing was desperately needed, she said, \"There is more focus on attainment measures rather than overall concern about the wellbeing of a child.\" Norman Lamb said the UK was in an \"intolerable crisis\", children had just one childhood and one education. \"When it's gone, it's gone, and that will leave a lifetime of damage … We are failing an entire generation of young people.\" There were calls for a change in school culture with a switch of focus from exams to wellbeing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20004646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20004646", "title": "Environmental control device", "text": "Environmental control device\n\nAn environmental control device is a form of electronic assistive technology which enables people with significant disabilities to independently access equipment in their environment e.g. home or hospital.\n\nAn environmental control controller is the device that controls the equipment – like a remote control. You can use the controller to select a range of different options. Each option will control a piece of equipment in a certain way – for example: play on a video recorder.\n\nEnvironmental control is a general term for environmental control systems and controllers and is sometimes abbreviated as EC.\n\nEnvironmental control devices may be assessed for and provided by the National Health Service. The team involved in the assessment for such technologies may consist of an occupational therapist.\n\n"}
{"id": "16348193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16348193", "title": "Euromobil", "text": "Euromobil\n\nEUROMOBIL is an interactive multimedia language learning and information programme for nine European target languages. The EUROMOBIL project was launched in 1999 with the aim to support student mobility. EUROMOBIL has been designed with the support of the European Commission (Socrates/Lingua2). EUROMOBIL can be used for self-study as well as for tutor-based language teaching sessions. With the help of the Offline programmes (with links to the web) students can prepare themselves for studying abroad and coping with everyday situations in the host country.\n\nTarget languages are Czech, English, Finnish, French, German, Hungarian, Polish, Portuguese and Romanian. The EUROMOBIL programmes have been designed on the basis of a needs analysis and in close collaboration with students. Consequently, the programmes for different languages differ in their levels, contents and target skills according to the specific needs of exchange students in the target country.\n\n\n\nProgrammes for beginner level include a variety of audio and short video recordings. The activities for advanced language learners are based on authentic and semi-authentic video recordings that focus on the training of oral communication skills.\n\n"}
{"id": "34858594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34858594", "title": "First Kindergarten", "text": "First Kindergarten\n\nThe First Kindergarten in Watertown, Wisconsin is the building that housed the first kindergarten in the United States, opened in 1856. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1972 for its significance to the history of education.\n\nMargarethe Schurz (née Meyer) was born in Hamburg, Germany, and at age sixteen listened to a series of lectures from the German educator Friedrich Froebel. In that time and place, young children were often viewed as little beasts to be tamed so that they could become productive workers. Froebel instead saw natural curiosity in children, which he encouraged with play, carefully chosen toys, music, stories, and nature study. He compared children to plants and a teacher to the gardener who helps them grow and bloom - hence the \"garden of children.\"\nMargarethe's family was prosperous and socially progressive, favoring the unification of the many small German states into one democratic nation. After losing in the revolutions of 1848-49, some of the family left Germany. In London, Margarethe's sister started a kindergarten, and Margarethe helped, gaining experience. There she married Carl Schurz, a fellow exile who fled Germany after serving as an officer on the losing side in the revolutions. They immigrated to the U.S. in 1852, and in 1856 moved to Watertown.\n\nBy this time Margarethe had a three-year-old daughter Agathe, and she started a kindergarten in her home for her daughter and four cousins, conducting classes in German. Soon others wanted the same for their children, so she expanded and moved her kindergarten to a small building in town. That building is the subject of this article, and it housed the first kindergarten in the U.S. Margarethe directed the kindergarten until 1858, when the Schurzes moved to Milwaukee. Carl became a lawyer, a Republican, a key supporter of Lincoln among German-Americans, a Major General in the Union Army during the Civil War, and United States Secretary of the Interior.\n\nAfter the Schurzes left, the Watertown kindergarten operated sporadically until WWI, when it closed due to suspicion of all things German. The school building is a simple 1.5 stories with boxed cornices and clapboard siding, 18 by 24 feet. In the years after it was a school, it served various uses: cigar factory, fish store, and religious book store. While it was a store, the front was substantially altered. In 1956 it was threatened with demolition, and the Watertown Historical Society moved the structure from its original location on North Second St. to its current site alongside the Octagon House and began to restore it as the kindergarten building. The building now serves as a museum.\n\nThe Schurz home, in which Margarethe began her kindergarten, burned and no longer exists, so this schoolhouse is the best representative of that first kindergarten. Because this building was moved from its original location and substantially changed, the National Register doesn't consider it of great architectural significance. It does consider it significant to the history of education at a \"national\" level, because Schurz's school in Watertown was the first kindergarten in the U.S.\n"}
{"id": "26188751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26188751", "title": "Gifted pull-out", "text": "Gifted pull-out\n\nGifted pull-outs (also called \"send-out\" or \"resource\" programs) are an educational approach in which gifted students are removed (or \"pulled-out\") from a heterogeneous (mixed-ability) classroom to spend a portion of their time with academic peers. Pull-outs tend to meet one to two hours per week. The students meet with a teacher to engage in enrichment or extension activities that may or may not be related to the curriculum being taught in the regular classroom. Pull-out teachers in some states are not required to have any formal background in gifted education.\n\nResearch has suggested that there are benefits to grouping gifted children together for the majority of the school day, which suggests that the limited meeting times and durations of gifted pull-out groups may have limited benefits for the gifted children. A 1993 U.S. Government report found up to 72% of school districts using the pull-out approach despite this method being generally unsuccessful. This lack of effectiveness has been echoed in more recent literature. Likewise, Borland (2003) concludes that pull-out programming is generally unproductive. Specifically, this is because pull-outs are composed of a hodge-podge of critical thinking, logic puzzles, and random subjects (like mythology) which are unlikely to result in any significant academic progress because they are not tied directly to the core curriculum. Winebrenner (2001) recommends those same ineffective practices, including creative problem solving, chess, logic puzzles, and academic competitions. Oddly, Winebrenner also recommends that students selected for pull-out should be those who are capable in the areas the pull-out will address. This is exactly the opposite of the approach recommended by most gifted literature, which argues for matching the instruction \"to the student,\" not vice versa. Jan and Bob Davidson of the Davidson Institute for Talent Development criticize pull-outs in their book, \"Genius Denied: How to Stop Wasting Our Brightest Young Minds.\" On page 47, they say, \"Most pull-out programs provide little beyond a creative outlet--and since districts that offer such programs claim they are helping gifted children when they aren't, they are often worse than no programs at all.\" Matthews and Foster also criticize pull-out gifted classes. They claim that the learning needs of advanced students are too important to be restricted to the day(s) on which their gifted class is scheduled. Furthermore, as they also point out, students can be penalized for missing their regular class (for example, by missing a class field trip), and sometimes teachers resent the pull-out teacher taking the strongest students out of their class. And perhaps most worrisome, the work in withdrawal gifted classes is often not differentiated for learning needs or properly integrated into children’s other studies. However, pull-out programs, when properly implemented, can be used to complement cluster grouping and other in-class differentiation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5270083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5270083", "title": "Harrison Middleton University", "text": "Harrison Middleton University\n\nHarrison Middleton University is a not-for-profit private distance-learning university offering Master of Arts, Doctor of Arts, and Doctor of Education programs in the humanities. Like a handful of traditional, bricks and mortar liberal arts colleges, Harrison Middleton University focuses its scope on the teachings of the Great Ideas and Great Books.\n\nIn addition to degree programs, Harrison Middleton University offers continuing education units in humanities.\n\nHarrison Middleton University was founded in 1998. They are nationally accredited by the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC), which is recognized by the United States Department of Education (USDE) and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). On September 20, 2017, DEAC was granted renewed recognition as an accreditor from the United States Department of Education for a period of five years. \nDEAC. On June 25, 2015, Harrison Middleton University was approved by the Arizona SARA Council to participate in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements. NC-SARA is a voluntary, regional approach to state oversight of postsecondary distance education http://nc-sara.org/states/az. Its office is located in Tempe, Arizona.\n\nHarrison Middleton University partnered with the Great Books Foundation on the publication of Great Ideas in Popular Culture, three anthologies on music, film, and television: Sound Bites: Big Ideas in Popular Music; Double Features: Big Ideas in Film; and Tube Talk: Big Ideas in Television.\n\n"}
{"id": "30044808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30044808", "title": "Helen Glatz", "text": "Helen Glatz\n\nHelen Sinclair Glatz née Hunter (13 March 1908–15 June 1996) was an English composer.\n\nHelen Sinclair Hunter was born in the English border country of Scottish ancestry and grew up in a musical home. She studied music with William Gillies Whittaker at Armstrong College, Durham University, and with Ralph Vaughan Williams, Gordon Jacob and Sir Charles Groves at the Royal College of Music.\n\nHunter became the first woman composer to receive the Royal College of Music's Albert Medal for Composition, and won a scholarship to Hungary to study with Zoltán Kodály and composer Sándor Végh. She later studied percussion with James Blades at Dartington.\n\nHunter married linguist Wolf Glatz in Hungary and remained during World War II until he could secure passage out of the country. The couple settled in South Devon in 1949, where Helen Glatz took a teaching position at St. Timothy's School in Dawlish. She also taught at Dartington College of Arts in Totnes, and worked as a rehearsal pianist for ballets. She had one son, and died in Totnes, Devon.\nHelen Glatz composed chamber and brass ensemble music, solo pieces and theatre music. Selected works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1578431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1578431", "title": "I2hub", "text": "I2hub\n\ni2hub was a peer-to-peer file sharing service and program designed and intended primarily for use by university and college students. \n\nThe program was created by Wayne Chang, a student at University of Massachusetts, Amherst.\n\ni2hub used Internet2, which was a special network that connected universities around the world. It allowed faster data transfer rates than typical Internet connections. Because of this, download speeds through i2hub were usually much faster than through other peer-to-peer networks.\n\nThe service was launched in March 2004 and ultimately expanded to over 400 universities and colleges both in the United States and abroad. \n\nIn August 2004, Mark Zuckerberg, Andrew McCollum, Adam D'Angelo, and Sean Parker of Facebook launched a competing peer-to-peer file sharing service called Wirehog. Traction was low compared to i2hub, and Facebook ultimately shut it down.\n\nAs its user-base expanded, it attracted the attention of ConnectU. A partnership allegedly formed between i2hub and ConnectU. The partnership, called The Winklevoss Chang Group, jointly advertised their properties through bus advertisements as well as press releases. i2hub integrated its popular software with ConnectU's website, as part of the partnership. The team also jointly launched several projects and initiatives, including:\n\nThe network was criticized by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for its ability to share copyrighted materials through a faster medium. On October 5, 2004, Cary Sherman, the president of the RIAA, talked about i2hub in a statement to the United States House of Representatives. On April 12, 2005, the RIAA announced it was suing 405 i2hub users, students at 18 colleges and universities, for copyright infringement. On September 22, 2005, the United States House of Representatives had another hearing to discuss i2hub. On November 14, 2005, i2hub was shut down with the message \"RIP 11/14/2005. It was a good run. Forced to shut down by the industry.\"\n\nOn January 17, 2006, the \"Wall Street Journal\" wrote that UMASS students that were sued for using i2hub wanted founder Wayne Chang to pay for their lawsuits. Wayne Chang and his attorney, Charles Baker, who also represented StreamCast Networks (makers of the Morpheus P2P software), responded saying that i2hub has no liability in the matter and is protected by the EULA. The lawsuit was never filed by the UMASS students.\n\nConnectU had sued Facebook in early 2004. Facebook countersued in regards to the team's Social Butterfly project, and named among the defendants ConnectU, Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, Divya Narendra, and Wayne Chang. Settlement was reached where Facebook acquired ConnectU for 1,253,326 shares of Facebook stock and an additional $20 million in cash. On August 26, 2010, New York Times reported that Facebook shares were trading at $76 per share in the secondary market, putting the total settlement value at close to $120 million. Another lawsuit was filed to undo the settlement as Facebook allegedly misrepresented the value of the stock by more than fourfold. If the settlement were adjusted to match, the total value would be over $466 million.\n\nOn December 21, 2009, i2hub founder Wayne Chang and The i2hub Organization launched a lawsuit against ConnectU and its founders, Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra, seeking 50% of the settlement. The complaint says \"The Winklevosses and Howard Winklevoss filed [a] patent application, U.S. Patent Application No 20060212395, on or around March 15, 2005, but did not list Chang as a co-inventor.\" It also states \"Through this litigation, Chang asserts his ownership interest in The Winklevoss Chang Group and ConnectU, including the settlement proceeds.\" Lee Gesmer (of prominent law firm Gesmer Updegrove, LLP) posted the detailed 33-page complaint online.\n\nOn May 13, 2011, Judge Peter Lauriat made a ruling against the Winklevosses. Chang's case against them could proceed. The Winklevosses had argued that the court lacks jurisdiction because the settlement with Facebook has not been distributed and therefore Chang hasn't suffered any injury. Judge Lauriat wrote, \"The flaw in this argument is that defendants appear to conflate loss of the settlement proceed with loss of rights. Chang alleges that he has received nothing in return for the substantial benefits he provided to ConnectU, including the value of his work, as well as i2hub's users and goodwill.\" Lauriat also wrote that, although Chang's claims to the settlement are \"too speculative to confer standing, his claims with respect to an ownership in ConnectU are not. They constitute an injury separate and distinct from his possible share of the settlement proceeds. The court concludes that Chang has plead sufficient facts to confer standing with respect to his claims against the Winklevoss defendants.\"\n"}
{"id": "2138561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2138561", "title": "Institutional research", "text": "Institutional research\n\nInstitutional research is a broad category of work done at schools, colleges and universities to inform campus decision-making and planning in areas such as admissions, financial aid, curriculum assessment, enrollment management, staffing, student life, finance, facilities, athletics, and alumni relations.\n\nInstitutional researchers collect, analyze, report, and warehouse quantitative and qualitative data about their institution's students, faculty, staff, curriculum, course offerings, and learning outcomes. They are involved in collecting and reporting information to government bodies (for example, in the USA, the United States Department of Education's Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System), to the public (e.g., Common Data Set, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities's University-College Accountability Network), and various college guide publishers (e.g., U.S. News & World Report and College Board). On occasion, institutional researchers share data with one another to compare their own practices and outcomes against those of similar institutions. Institutional research is the source of much of the information provided to regional and national accreditation bodies to document how institutions fulfill the standards for accreditation.\n\nIn addition to reporting, institutional researchers often engage in data analysis, ranging from simply testing whether differences in reported data are statistically significant to developing and using causal and predictive statistical models. Such models are often used in support of assessment and strategic enrollment management.\n\nDue to the need to provide data to the federal government and other entities, nearly every post-secondary institution has offices that fulfill the institutional research function. At some colleges and universities this function is centralized in a single office of institutional research, while at others it is more de-centralized. There is no single academic degree that qualifies one to be an institutional researcher, but suggested strengths include a knowledge of statistics, research methods (e.g., survey research and focus groups), and computer-based reporting and data visualization tools (e.g., SPSS, SAS, R, STATA, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Excel, MicroStrategy, and SQL). Other important assets are strong written and oral communications skills, attention to detail, and knowledge about how institutions of higher education operate. Several American universities offer graduate certificate programs in institutional research, including Ball State University, Florida State University, Humboldt State University, North Dakota State University, Penn State University, Indiana University, University of Missouri, University of Illinois, the University of Wisconsin - Stout , and the University of California San Diego Extension. \n\n"}
{"id": "56551244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56551244", "title": "Inés Katzenstein", "text": "Inés Katzenstein\n\nInés Katzenstein is an Argentine curator, art historian, and art critic who specializes in Latin American art.\n\nKatzenstein was born in Argentina.\n\nKatzenstein has a B.A. in communications from the University of Buenos Aires. In 2001, Katzenstein received an M.A. in curatorial studies from the Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College.\n\nIn 2000, Katzenstein got a position at the Museum of Modern Art, where she began as an assistant to the editor-in-chief of \"Listen, Here, Now! Argentine Art in the 1960s,\" part of MoMa's International Program Primary Documents publication series, and the first one to focus on Latin American art. She later became an editor of the publication.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2008, Katzenstein worked as a curator at the Malba-Fundación Costantini, where her focus was on contemporary Argentine art.\n\nIn 2007, Katzenstein was the curator of the Argentine Pavilion exhibition at the Venice Biennale, which featured paintings by the artist Guillermo Kuitca.\n\nIn 2008, Katzenstein founded the Department of Art at the Universidad Torcuato Di Tella (UTDT).\n\nIn 2018, Katzenstein became the director of the newly formed Patricia Phelps de Cisneros Research Institute for the Study of Art from Latin America as well as the Curator of Latin American Art at the Museum of Modern Art.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32287460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32287460", "title": "James Greenwood (grammarian)", "text": "James Greenwood (grammarian)\n\nJames Greenwood (c.1683 – 1737) was an English grammarian.\n\nGreenwood was for some time usher to Benjamin Morland (1657-?) at Hackney Academy, but soon after 1711 opened a boarding-school at Woodford, Essex. At midsummer 1721, when Morland became high-master, he was appointed surmaster of St. Paul's School, London, a post which he held until his death on 12 September 1737. He left a widow, Susannah.\n\nHe is mostly known as the author of \"An Essay towards a practical English Grammar. Describing the Genius and Nature of the English Tongue\", &c., 12mo, London, 1711 ; 2nd edit. 1722; 3rd edit. 1729; 5th edit. 1753 (reprinted by the University of Michigan Library, 2009). It received the praises of Andrew Ross, Professor of Humanity at the University of Glasgow, Dr. George Hickes, John Chamberlayne, and Isaac Watts, who in his \"Art of Reading and Writing English\" considered that Greenwood had shown in his book \"the deep Knowledge, without the haughty Airs of a Critick\". At Watts's suggestion Greenwood afterwards published an abridgment under the title of \"The Royal English Grammar\", which he dedicated to the Princess of Wales; the fourth edition of this appeared in 1750, an eighth in 1770.\n\nThe appearance of two other English grammars by John Brightland (d. 1717) and Michael Mattaire at about the same time called forth an anonymous attack on all three books, entitled \"Bellum Grammatical; or the Grammatical Battel Royal. In Reflections on the three English Grammars publish'd in about a year last past\", 8vo, London, 1712.\n\nGreenwood also wrote \"The London Vocabulary, English and Latin: put into a new Method proper to acquaint the Learner with Things, as well as Pure Latin Words. Adorn'd with Twenty Six Pictures\", &c., 3rd edition, 12mo, London 1713 (many editions, both English and American). It is, however, nothing more than an abridgment of Jan Amos Komensky's \"Orbis Pictura\". Greenwood's last work was \"The Virgin Muse. Being a Collection of Poems from our most celebrated English Poets … To which are added some Copies of Verses never before printed; with notes\" &c., 12mo, London, 1717; 2nd edition, 1722. It does not appear that Greenwood himself was a contributor.\n"}
{"id": "11558495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11558495", "title": "James M. Lindsay", "text": "James M. Lindsay\n\nJames M. Lindsay (born November 29, 1959, Winchester, Massachusetts), is the Senior Vice President, Director of Studies, and Maurice R. Greenberg Chair at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and a leading authority on U.S. foreign policy. He is also the award-winning coauthor of \"America Unbound: The Bush Revolution in Foreign Policy\" and former Director for Global Issues and Multilateral Affairs at the National Security Council. In 2008, he was the principal author of a Department of Defense funded $7.6 million Minerva Research Initiative grant entitled \"Climate Change, State Stability, and Political Risk in Africa.\" He is the author of a CFR blog on American foreign policy, The Water's Edge.\n\nLindsay holds an A.B. in economics and political science (highest distinction, highest honors) from the University of Michigan and an M.A., M. Phil., and Ph.D. from Yale University.\n\nHe has authored, co-authored, or edited more than fifteen books and fifty journal articles and book chapters on various aspects of American foreign policy and international relations. His latest book, \"The Empty Throne: America's Abdication of Global Leadership,\" co-authored with Ivo H. Daalder and released in October 2018. His previous book with Ivo H. Daalder, \"America Unbound: The Bush Revolution in Foreign Policy\", was awarded the 2003 Lionel Gelber Award, named a finalist for the Arthur S. Ross Book Award, and selected as a top book of 2003 by \"The Economist\".\n\nWith Henry J. Aaron and Pietro S. Nivola, he co-edited \"Agenda for the Nation\", which \"Choice\" Magazine named “Outstanding Academic Book of 2004.” In 2001, with Michael E. O'Hanlon, he wrote \"Defending America: The Case for Limited National Missile Defense\".\n\nHe is the author of \"Congress and the Politics of U.S. Foreign Policy\", published in 1994; and \"Congress and Nuclear Weapons\", published in 1991. He has also contributed articles to the op-ed pages of many major newspapers, including the New York Times, the Washington Post, and the Los Angeles Times.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2009, Lindsay was the inaugural director of The Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law at The University of Texas at Austin as well as the first Tom Slick Chair for International Affairs at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs. From 2003 to 2006, he was Vice President, Director of Studies, and Maurice R. Greenberg Chair at the Council on Foreign Relations. From 1999 to 2003, he served as Deputy Director and Senior Fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution. From 1987 to 1999, he was a professor of political science at the University of Iowa, where he was the recipient of the Collegiate Teaching Award and of the James N. Murray Faculty Teaching Award. In 1996-1997, he was Director for Global Issues and Multilateral Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council.\n\nHe has also served as a consultant to the United States Commission on National Security/21st Century (Hart-Rudman Commission) and as a staff expert for the United States Institute of Peace’s Congress-mandated Task Force on the United Nations. He has been a fellow at the Center for International Affairs and the Center for Science and International Affairs, both at Harvard University. He was a recipient of the Pew Faculty Fellowship in International Affairs in 1990 and an International Affairs Fellowship from the Council on Foreign Relations in 1995.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34755408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34755408", "title": "John Berchmans Conway", "text": "John Berchmans Conway\n\nJohn Berchmans Conway, R.J.M. (born Bernadette Conway in 1929), usually known as Sister Berchmans, is a Roman Catholic religious sister and teacher who has been working in Pakistan for 60 years. In 2012 she was decorated by the Government of Pakistan for her services in education and promoting interfaith harmony.\n\nConway was born in County Clare, Ireland. In 1951 she joined the Congregation of the Religious of Jesus and Mary, founded by Claudine Thevenet in France in 1818, dedicated to caring for and educating the young and homeless. Very early, the congregation took on the task of education in other countries. The first Convent of Jesus and Mary in Pakistan was opened by four sisters in Lahore in 1876. She was sent to Pakistan in 1953 at the age of 24.\n\nConway has spent some 60 years teaching. Her passion has been teaching English, although she has also taught mathematics. She has taught girls in Jesus and Mary Convents in Lahore, Murree and Karachi.\n\nConway completed her Diamond Jubilee, or 60th year, of religious profession in the Religious of Jesus and Mary in December 2011.\n\nAmong Conway's notable students were Benazir Bhutto, the late Prime Minister of Pakistan, who was assassinated in 2007, and Asma Jahangir, a noted human rights activist.\n\nIn 2012 Conway was still serving as the Principal of the Convent of Jesus & Mary in Karachi.\n\nOn 15 February 2012, the President of Pakistan approved conferment of the \"Sitara\" (Urdu: Star) class of the Nishan-e-Quaid-i-Azam award on Conway for her services in education and promoting interfaith harmony in Pakistan.\n\nOn 25 March 2012, more than 600 people gathered at St. Anthony’s Church for a special Mass to celebrate the conferral of the country’s highest civilian award on Conway and the Rev. Robert McCulloch, S.S.C.\n"}
{"id": "759843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=759843", "title": "Junior Achievement", "text": "Junior Achievement\n\nJA (Junior Achievement) Worldwide is a global non-profit youth organization founded in 1919 by Horace A. Moses, Theodore Vail, and Winthrop M. Crane. JA works with local businesses, schools, and organizations to deliver experiential learning programs on the topics of work readiness, financial literacy, and entrepreneurship to students from ages 5 to 25.\n\n\"Boys' and Girls' Bureau of the Eastern States League\" was founded in Springfield, Massachusetts, in 1919 to help educate young people moving from rural America to the country's booming cities about the means of production and free enterprise. The following year, the organization's name was changed to the Junior Achievement Bureau. The name was modified in 1926 to Junior Achievement, Inc.\n\nFollowing World War II, the organization grew from a regional into a national organization. In the 1960s, JA began its growth into an international organization.\n\nFor more than 50 years, the organization was known mostly for the JA Company Program, an after-school program through which students form companies, sell stocks, produce and market a product, and sell it in their communities and globally. The student companies are mentored by volunteer advisers from the business and tech communities. In 1975, Junior Achievement introduced its first in-school program, Project Business, featuring volunteers from the local business community teaching middle school students about business and personal finance.\n\nToday, JA Worldwide is one of the world's largest organization youth-serving organizations, dedicated to giving young people the knowledge and skills they need for employment and entrepreneurship. JA programs are delivered by corporate and community volunteers and provide relevant, hands-on experiences that give students knowledge and skills in financial literacy, work readiness, and entrepreneurship. JA annually reaches more than 10 million students in more than 100 countries around the world. Programs are delivered by more than 450,000 JA volunteers.\n\nJA Worldwide has regional offices in Junior Achievement USA, JA Middle East and Africa (INJAZ Al-Arab), JA Europe, JA Asia Pacific, JA Americas, and JA Africa.\n\nSeveral other organizations have joined JA Worldwide, such as Young Enterprise in the UK, INJAZ in the Middle East, Prestasi Junior in Indonesia, and Vlajo in Belgium.\n\nNotable JA alumni include former U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala, U.S. Congressman Bob Clement, Subway restaurant founder Fred DeLuca, American actor Arte Johnson, journalist Dan Rather, Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, comedian Amy Sedaris, and British Labor Party Politician David Lammy.\n\nJA programs for elementary, middle, high school, and college students are designed to \"help prepare young people for the real world by showing them how to generate wealth and effectively manage it, how to create jobs which make their communities more robust, and how to apply entrepreneurial thinking to the workplace.\"\n\n\n\n\nFrom its founding in 1919 until 1962, JA was managed by volunteers from the business community. In 1962, the organization hired its first, full-time, paid president.\n\nLeaders of Junior Achievement USA included:\n\n\nBeginning in 1944, Junior Achievement organized an annual national conference, known as the National Junior Achievers Conference, NAJAC, to bring together student representatives of local programs to participate in contests. In 1949, the organization began allowing conference delegates to elect national leadership to play an active role contributing to program development, increasing public awareness and supporting fundraising.\n\nFrom 1944 to 1961, conferences were held in New Jersey, West Virginia, Ohio and Indiana, before finding a permanent home on the campus of Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana, where delegates have gathered in August of each year since 1962.\n\nBetween 1949 and 1989, 33 teenagers, including 31 boys and 2 girls, were elected by their peers to serve as Junior Achievement's national conference president.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59174581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59174581", "title": "Kathleen Lyttelton", "text": "Kathleen Lyttelton\n\nKathleen Lyttelton (born Mary Kathleen Clive), 185612 January 1907, was a women's activist, editor and writer. She devoted much of her life to fighting for women's suffrage and for the improvement of women's lives in general. After a period of 11 years in Cambridge, as wife of Selwyn College's first Master Arthur Lyttelton, she concentrated on her writing and women's committee work. In her 1901 book \"Women and Their Work\" she argued that education for women was \"essential to their true progress\", with the franchise being a necessary part of that education. \n\nKathleen was born in 1856. Her father was the judge and Liberal politician George Clive, her mother Ann Sybella Martha Farquhar.\n\nIn spite of the initial misgivings of her father, in 1880 she married the Hon Arthur Lyttelton, then a tutor at Keble College, Oxford. Fortunately the marriage proved strong and the couple went on to have three children: Margaret Lucy (1882), Archer Geoffrey (1884), and Stephen Clive (1887).\n\nIn 1882 Kathleen and Arthur took up residence in the newly-founded Selwyn College, Cambridge, where Arthur had been appointed Master-designate. When they moved in, the college was still a building site with only the West front completed. Initially, they made do with a suite of adapted student rooms until the Master's Lodge was built.\n\nKathleen founded The Cambridge Association For Women's Suffrage (CAWS) along with Millicent Fawcett in 1884, and Fawcett encouraged her to join the Executive of The Central Society For Women’s Suffrage.. She was also active with the Cambridge Women's Refuge, helping to raise funds for what would become the Cambridge Association for the Care of Girls which aimed to help girls of the streets and to give them practical help with domestic economy and literacy.\n\nIn 1890, with her close friend Louise Creighton, Kathleen founded the Cambridge Ladies Dining Society, a group of believers in women's education who actively campaigned for the University to grant degrees to women; most were also strong supporters of female suffrage. Members of the society included Caroline Jebb, Eleanor Sidgwick, Mary Augusta Ward, and Mary Paley Marshall.\n\nDuring their years at Selwyn, the Lyttletons also helped develop the College Music Society, and they supported the Boat Club (whose colours were chosen by Kathleen).\n\nIn 1893 after 11 years in Cambridge, Arthur left Selwyn to take up the post of vicar of Eccles Parish Church in Lancashire. In 1895, along with Arthur, she founded and later became chair of the executive committee of the Manchester and Salford Women's Trade Union Council, an organisation whose aim was to investigate working conditions and organise low-paid workers into unions. Members of the council included Christabel Pankhurst and CP Scott.\n\nShe launched the Eccles branch of the Cooperative Women's Guild, and became a vice president of the National Union of Women Workers, as well as joining the committee of the Manchester National Society for Women's Suffrage. As an active Poor Law Guardian, she complained that Manchester city officials \"winked at the pollution of the atmosphere\".\n\nKathleen's course of lectures for the Manchester School of Domestic Economy entitled \"Common Sense For Housewives: Girls’ Life after Leaving School\" was published by the school in 1896.\n\nAfter Arthur was appointed Suffragan Bishop of Southampton in 1898 the family moved back south, to Petersfield, Hampsire.\n\nKathleen was elected president of the National Union of Women's Workers, and she chaired their conference in Brighton in 1900.\n\nKathleen's book \"Women and Their Work,\" published in 1901, was permeated with her deep religious beliefs. In it, she insisted on the importance of education for women and the necessity of ‘commitment’ and ‘conviction’; she argued that while the difficult lives of working class women would naturally lead to the formation of definite opinions, the sheltered, easy lives of middle and upper-class women did not naturally lead to such ‘conviction’. She wrote that \"the withholding of the franchise is very prejudicial to the right development of women, and that the education given by the vote is essential to their true progress\", foreseeing that “the bewilderment will pass as the years go on, and the very magnitude of the task will in time arise and awaken those women who are as yet indifferent to it\".\n\nFollowing Arthur's death in February 1903, Kathleen edited a collection of his essays entitled \"Modern Poets of Faith, Doubt and Paganism\" (1904).\n\nIn June 1903 she became editor of the women's section of an Anglican weekly publication called \"The Guardian\", in which role she was the first to review and publish the early writings of Virginia Stephen (later Virginia Woolf). Virginia was initially hesitant and grateful, but by late 1905 had become sufficiently confident to complain that Mrs L \"sticks her broad thumb into the middle of my sentences and improves the moral tone\".\n\nKathleen moved to a house in Gower Street, London, near that of Millicent Fawcett with whom she published \"Why Women Want the Vote\" in 1906.\n\nKathleen died at the age of 51 on 12 January 1907, at the Clives’ family seat at at Perrystone Court, Herefordshire. Her obituary in The Times made no mention of her suffrage and TUC work, and concentrated on her role as a scholarly translator, \"a considerable student of literature\" and a \"diligent critic”. There were also obituaries in \"The Englishwoman's Review\" and \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4912107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4912107", "title": "Kiev Planetarium", "text": "Kiev Planetarium\n\nKiev Planetarium (previously \"Republican Planetarium\"; ) in Kiev, Ukraine is one of the largest planetaria in the CIS (former Soviet states). Opened on January 1, 1952 by the initiative of the scientist-astronomer Serhiy Vsekhsviatskiy (1905–1984), the planetarium has a dome of 23.5 meters in diameter, and seats 320 people.\n\nIn 1987, Kiev Planetarium moved to new premises on the street. Red Army, 57 /3, where he remains to this day. The new building was set device \" Large Zeiss IV», allowing to demonstrate the 6500 stars of the Northern and Southern hemispheres. The planetarium offers lectures on astronomy, geography, natural history. When the children's planetarium astronomical school for students 6–11 years of age and art studio. Kiev Planetarium is a division of the Society \"Knowledge\" of Ukraine.\n\nIn December 2011 an entertainment center ATMASFERA 360 was founded on the basis of the planetarium. Specifications of the dome: diameter - 23 meters, the height of the dome - 11.5 meters. It is equipped with a modern 4k digital projection system supplied by Ukrainian company Front Pictures. The system uses 15 projectors which work on a single Screenberry media server. Due to digital autocalibration system the calibration process takes up to 15 minutes and includes all 5 stages:\n\nAtmasfera 360 is equipped with a software, Event Horizon. Event Horizon is a real-time 3D fulldome environment that visualizes and simulates the known Universe according to accurate, up-to-date scientific data. The software is based on the latest Unreal Engine technology and provides up to 4K resolution graphics which, combined with a beautiful soundtrack, gives a revolutionary viewing experience.\n"}
{"id": "31377018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31377018", "title": "Kristaq Rama", "text": "Kristaq Rama\n\nKristaq Rama (1932 April 1998) was an Albanian sculptor, art educator and a member of the Politburo in Communist Albania under Enver Hoxha's rule.\n\nHe was born in Durrës.\n\nRama graduated from the Artistic Lyceum \"Jordan Misja\", in the Department of Fine Arts in 1951, and three years later left Albania to study in Leningrad, Soviet Union.\n\nAfter graduation, he returned to Albania, where he worked in Tirana, primarily as superintendent of fine arts at the Albanian Ministry of Culture, and at the same time taught as an external lecturer at the Higher Institute of Arts of Tirana.\n\nAs a sculptor, Rama created several busts of warriors, people portraits, female sculptures, as well as other decorations.\n\nIn August 1988, Rama signed along with Ramiz Alia and others documents for the death penalty of poet Havzi Nela by hanging. Other documents show that Rama signed for the death penalty for Enver Osmani, a 29-year-old from Dibra.\n\nHe is the father of Edi Rama, president of the Socialist Party of Albania and Prime Minister of Albania, also several times former mayor of Tirana city.\n\nRama died, age 65–66, in Tirana in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "45238137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45238137", "title": "Laghman University", "text": "Laghman University\n\nLaghman University () is located in Laghman province, eastern Afghanistan.\n\nIt has four faculties such as Engineering faculty, Agriculture faculty, literature faculty and education faculty\n"}
{"id": "15614660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15614660", "title": "List of International Mathematical Olympiads", "text": "List of International Mathematical Olympiads\n\nThe first of the International Mathematical Olympiads (IMOs) was held in Romania in 1959. The oldest of the International Science Olympiads, the IMO has since been held annually, except in 1980. That year the competition initially planned to hold in Mongolia was canceled due to soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Because the competition was initially founded for Eastern European countries participating in the Warsaw Pact, under the influence of the Eastern Bloc, the earlier IMOs were hosted only in Eastern European countries, gradually spreading to other nations. Sources differ about the cities hosting some of the early IMOs and the exact dates when they took place.\n\nThe first IMO was held in Romania in 1959. Seven countries entered – Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania and the Soviet Union – with the hosts finishing as the top-ranked nation. The number of participating countries has since risen: 14 countries took part in 1969, 50 in 1989, and 104 in 2009.\n\nNorth Korea is the only country to have been caught cheating, resulting in its disqualification at the 32nd IMO in 1991 and the 51st IMO in 2010. In January 2011, Google gave €1 million to the IMO organization to help cover the costs of the events from 2011–2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5648968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5648968", "title": "Luis von Ahn", "text": "Luis von Ahn\n\nLuis von Ahn (; born 19 August 1978) is a Guatemalan entrepreneur and a Consulting Professor in the Computer Science Department at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is known as one of the pioneers of crowdsourcing. He is the founder of the company reCAPTCHA, which was sold to Google in 2009, and the co-founder and CEO of Duolingo, a popular language-learning platform.\n\nVon Ahn was born in and grew up in Guatemala City. He is of German Guatemalan descent.\n\nHe received his BS in Mathematics (\"summa cum laude\") from Duke University in 2000, and later got his PhD in Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University in 2005.\n\nIn 2006, Von Ahn became a faculty member at the Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nAs a professor, his research includes CAPTCHAs and human computation, which has earned him international recognition and numerous honors. He was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship in 2006, the David and Lucile Packard Foundation Fellowship in 2009, a Sloan Fellowship in 2009, and a Microsoft New Faculty Fellowship in 2007, and the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers in 2012. He has also been named one of the 50 Best Brains in Science by \"Discover\", and has made it to many recognition lists that include \"Popular Science\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Brilliant 10, Silicon.com's 50 Most Influential People in Technology, \"MIT Technology Review\"'s TR35: Young Innovators Under 35, and \"Fast Company<nowiki>'</nowiki>\"s 100 Most Innovative People in Business.\n\n\"Siglo Veintiuno\", one of the biggest newspapers in Guatemala, chose him as the person of the year in 2009. In 2011, Foreign Policy Magazine in Spanish named him the most influential intellectual of Latin America and Spain.\n\nVon Ahn's early research was in the field of cryptography. With Nicholas J. Hopper and John Langford, he was the first to provide rigorous definitions of steganography and to prove that private-key steganography is possible.\n\nIn 2000, he did early pioneering work with Manuel Blum on CAPTCHAs, computer-generated tests that humans are routinely able to pass but that computers have not yet mastered. These devices are used by web sites to prevent automated programs, or bots, from perpetrating large-scale abuse, such as automatically registering for large numbers of accounts or purchasing huge numbers of tickets for resale by scalpers. CAPTCHAs brought von Ahn his first widespread fame among the general public due to their coverage in the \"New York Times\" and \"USA Today\" and on the Discovery Channel, NOVA scienceNOW, and other mainstream outlets.\n\nVon Ahn's Ph.D. thesis, completed in 2005, was the first publication to use the term \"human computation\" that he had coined, referring to methods that combine human brainpower with computers to solve problems that neither could solve alone. Von Ahn's Ph.D. thesis is also the first work on Games With A Purpose, or GWAPs, which are games played by humans that produce useful computation as a side effect. The most famous example is the ESP Game, an online game in which two randomly paired people are simultaneously shown the same picture, with no way to communicate. Each then lists a number of words or phrases that describe the picture within a time limit, and are rewarded with points for a match. This match turns out to be an accurate description of the picture, and can be successfully used in a database for more accurate image search technology. The ESP Game was licensed by Google in the form of the Google Image Labeler, and is used to improve the accuracy of the Google Image Search. Von Ahn's games brought him further coverage in the mainstream media. His thesis won the Best Doctoral Dissertation Award from Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science.\nIn July 2006, von Ahn gave a tech talk at Google on \"Human Computation\" (i.e., crowdsourcing) which was watched by over one million viewers.\n\nIn 2007, von Ahn invented reCAPTCHA, a new form of CAPTCHA that also helps digitize books. In reCAPTCHA, the images of words displayed to the user come directly from old books that are being digitized; they are words that optical character recognition could not identify and are sent to people throughout the web to be identified. ReCAPTCHA is currently in use by over 100,000 web sites and is transcribing over 40 million words per day.\n\nIn 2011, he was awarded the A. Nico Habermann development chair in computer science, which is awarded every three years to a junior faculty member of unusual promise in the School of Computer Science.\n\nIn 2018, von Ahn was awarded the Lemelson-MIT prize for his \"dedication to improving the world through technology.\"\n\n, von Ahn is the CEO of Duolingo, a language education platform.\n\nVon Ahn has used a number of unusual techniques in his teaching, which have won him multiple teaching awards at Carnegie Mellon University. In the fall of 2008, he began teaching a new course at Carnegie Mellon entitled \"Science of the Web\". A combination of graph theory and social science, the course covers topics from network and game theory to auction theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "54113438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54113438", "title": "Marc Coppey", "text": "Marc Coppey\n\nMarc Coppey (born 1969 in Strasbourg) is a French contemporary classical cellist.\n\nIn 1988, Marc Coppey attracted the attention of the world of music by winning the two highest prizes of the International Johann Sebastian Bach Competition - the first prize and the special prize for Bach's best performance - at 18. He was then noticed by Yehudi Menuhin.\n\nHe made his debut in Moscow then in Paris in the Tchaikovsky trio with Menuhin and Viktoria Postnikova, on the occasion of a concert filmed by Bruno Monsaingeon. Rostropovitch invited him to the Evian Festival and, from then on, his soloist career unfolded under the direction of Emmanuel Krivine, Rafael Frühbeck de Burgos, Michel Plasson, Jean-Claude Casadesus, Theodor Guschlbauer, John Nelson, Raymond Leppard, Erich Bergel, Philippe Bender, Alan Gilbert, Lionel Bringuier, Paul McCreesh, Yutaka Sado, Kirill Karabits and Asher Fisch.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2534241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2534241", "title": "Montfort Agricultural Secondary School", "text": "Montfort Agricultural Secondary School\n\nMontfort Agricultural Secondary School is a Tanzanian secondary school in Rujewa, Mbeya Region.\n\nIt was founded in 1988 by the Indian branch of the Montfort Brothers of St. Gabriel, on 538 acres (2.15 km²) of land provided by the government.\n\nAs of 2005, the school teaches up to O-Level standard. There are 318 students, of whom 30% are girls, and 30% Muslims. There are boarding facilities for boys, accommodating 87 students, but none for girls. There are 24 teachers. \n\nThe main income for the school is provided by the school farm. The farm includes orchards, paddy fields, livestock (cows, oxen, pigs and chickens) and fish ponds. Irrigation is provided from the neighbouring village of Ubaruku by Mbarali Rice Farms, a branch of the National Food Corporation (NAFCO). \n\n"}
{"id": "30717475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30717475", "title": "New Visions: Law &amp; Government", "text": "New Visions: Law &amp; Government\n\nNew Visions: Law & Government is an academic career-exploration program for high school seniors from the state of New York. The program is located at the New York State Education Department Building in Albany, New York. Offered through the Capital Region Board of Cooperative Educational Services (BOCES), New Visions: Law & Government integrates Advanced Placement United States Government and Politics with English, Law and Economics. The program offers college credit through the University at Albany, SUNY's University in the High School Program (UHS) and is the only high school program to offer college credit in Criminal Justice through UHS. \n\nIn the program, students are also placed in internships in places such as the New York Attorney General's office, various state courts, the New York State Legislature, and various public and private interest or advocacy organizations. Students participate in mock trials, mock congressional hearings and visit with many judges and lawyers over the course of the year. The Advanced Placement United States Government and Politics component emphasizes critical thinking, analysis and writing. The works read include: \"The Merchant of Venice\", \"Crime and Punishment\", \"Democracy in America\", \"The Federalist Papers\", \"The Brethren\", \"All the President's Men\", and \"One L\", as well as many works of short fiction and newspaper and magazine articles. The program culminates with a week in Washington, D.C. where the class typically attends a session of the Supreme Court, meet with a Justice or his or her law clerks, meet with the students' Representatives, Senators, and Congressional staff, and attend a White House Press Briefing.\n\nOn February 7, 2015, the New Visions Law & Government class won the New York \"We The People: The Citizen and the Constitution” State Finals and advanced to the National championship, marking the first time in the \"We The People\" program's 28-year history that an upstate team has won the State championship. At the 2015 \"We The People: The Citizen and the Constitution” National Finals, the New Visions Law & Government class won an award for the highest score in Unit 3 (of six units), “How has the Constitution been changed to further the ideals contained in the Declaration of Independence?\" On February 27, 2016, the New Visions Law & Government class won the New York \"We The People: The Citizen and the Constitution” State Finals and advanced to the National championship for a second consecutive year. \"We the People: The Citizen and Constitution\" is an intensive curriculum that provides students with a fundamental understanding of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. Competing students act as experts testifying on constitutional issues in a simulated congressional hearing, demonstrating their knowledge and understanding of constitutional principles and have opportunities to evaluate, take, and defend positions on relevant historical and contemporary issues. Constitutional scholars, lawyers and government leaders from throughout the state, acting as congressional committee members, judge the student performances.\n"}
{"id": "40276437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40276437", "title": "Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority", "text": "Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority\n\nThe Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority, previously called Ngwao Boswa jwa Kapa Bokone (seTswana for 'Heritage Northern Cape'), and commonly known as 'Boswa', is a provincial heritage resources authority established in 2003 by the MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture in the Northern Cape Province of South Africa, and reconstituted in terms of the Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority Act, 2013. It is an institution set up under the terms of the National Heritage Resources Act. It is mandated to care for that part of South Africa's national estate that is of provincial and local significance in the Northern Cape.\n\nThe Heritage Authority is best known as the custodian of the approximately 130 provincial heritage sites in the province, but is also responsible for administration of other forms of protection of heritage established under the terms of the National Heritage Resources Act.\n\nThe Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority (sometimes referred to as 'Ngwao Boswa') is the successor body to the former National Monuments Council in the Northern Cape Province of South Africa. Under the 1996 Constitution of South Africa cultural matters are a competency shared between national and provincial government. This necessitated the creation of a system whereby many of the responsibilities of the former National Monuments Council were devolved to provincial level via the National Heritage Resources Act.\n\nThe Northern Cape Provincial Government elected initially to use provisions of the National Heritage Resources Act which allowed it to establish a provincial heritage resources authority (PHRA): 'Ngwao Boswa' was established by regulation on 28 February 2003. On 11 October 2003 the Council appointed by the MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture met for the first time and has since met regularly. The Council established a sub-committee known as the 'Permits Committee' which met monthly to consider applications under the terms of the National Heritage Resources Act. The Council also established an Executive Committee.\n\nThe Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority Act, 2013, reconstitutes the Council and provides for the governance of the authority, determining its objects, functions and operation, and regulating staff and financial matters.\n\nThe authority inherited responsibility for approximately 130 former national monuments, now known as ‘provincial heritage sites’. The National Heritage Resources Act provides for a greater variety of protection than did its predecessor and the organisation has continued to institute protections of various forms under its terms. A large part of this work is dedicated to transforming the heritage landscape of the Northern Cape Province to ensure that the heritage of all its people enjoys equal recognition and appropriate protection.\n\nThe Logo of the organisation is based on a rock engraving of an eland from the Wildebeest Kuil rock art site, the first new provincial heritage site to be declared by the organisation following its establishment.\n\nThe initial name of the organisation was a rendition of 'Heritage Northern Cape' in the seTswana language, also translated as 'Erfenis Noord-Kaap' in Afrikaans and 'Amafa Asemntla Koloni' in isiXhosa, English, Afrikaans and isiXhosa being the other three official languages of the province.\n\nFrom its inception there was controversy over the correct translation of the term 'Heritage Northern Cape' into seTswana, the regulation establishing the organisation spelling it 'Taolo Ya Ngoa Boshwa Kapa Bokoni'. It was also frequently referred to, more correctly, as 'Ngwao-Boshwa [or Boswa] ya [or jwa] Kapa Bokone'.\n\nNew legislation, published in March 2014, gives the name of the organisation as Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority.\n\nThe Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority is subject to a biennial assessment of competency by the South African Heritage Resources Agency, SAHRA, in terms of which it is determined which aspects of the National Heritage Resources Act it is qualified to implement. It has been assessed as competent to deal with all areas over which a provincial heritage resources authority is permitted to act, aside from Sections 35 and 36 of the Act which cover certain aspects relating to archaeology, palaeontology, graves and burials.\n\nThe Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority is responsible for sites that fall within the following categories:\n\n\nThe Council of the Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority employs the staff of the organisation, although up to 2011 staff were employees of the Northern Cape Department of Sport, Arts and Culture.\n\nApproximately 130 sites in the Northern Cape are formally protected as provincial heritage sites. Most of these were declared under legislation that predates the National Heritage Resources Act and were previously known as 'national monuments'. One new provincial heritage site has been declared by the Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority, that being the Wildebeest Kuil rock art site which was gazetted on 19 September 2008. The organisation is also responsible for the Richtersveld World Heritage Site which was gazetted as a heritage area on 18 June 2007. In cooperation with municipalities, several other heritage areas have been established in terms of Section 31 of the National Heritage Resources Act and municipal spatial development frameworks. These are in the following towns:\n\n\nThe Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority receives an annual transfer payment from the Northern Cape Department of Sport, Arts and Culture.\n\n\n\n\nProvincial Heritage Resources Authorities:\n"}
{"id": "54937665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54937665", "title": "Oguz Khan University of Engineering Technologies", "text": "Oguz Khan University of Engineering Technologies\n\nOguz Han Engineering and Technology University of Turkmenistan () is a university located in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan. The University was established in 2016.\n\nOguz Han Engineering and Technology University of Turkmenistan was established as an important step towards deepening the Turkmen–Japan partnership in science and education. It is the 19th of civil higher education institutions of Turkmenistan. It partially uses premises of International Turkmen-Turkish University in Koshi area Project street of Ashgabat.\n"}
{"id": "17667262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17667262", "title": "Olimpíada Brasileira de Matemática", "text": "Olimpíada Brasileira de Matemática\n\nThe Olimpíada Brasileira de Matemática is a mathematics competition held every year for students of Brazil. The participants are awarded gold, silver and bronze medals in accordance with their performance. The main purpose of this competition is to help in selecting students to represent Brazil at the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n"}
{"id": "6255302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6255302", "title": "Pedagogy of the Oppressed", "text": "Pedagogy of the Oppressed\n\nPedagogy of the Oppressed (), written by educator Paulo Freire, proposes a pedagogy with a new relationship between teacher, student, and society. It was first published in Portuguese in 1968, and was translated by Myra Ramos into English and published in 1970. The book is considered one of the foundational texts of critical pedagogy.\n\nDedicated to the oppressed and based on his own experience helping Brazilian adults to read and write, Freire includes a detailed Marxist class analysis in his exploration of the relationship between the colonizer and the colonized.\n\nIn the book Freire calls traditional pedagogy the \"banking model of education\" because it treats the student as an empty vessel to be filled with knowledge, like a piggy bank. However, he argues for pedagogy to treat the learner as a co-creator of knowledge.\n\nThe book has sold over 750,000 copies worldwide.\n\nTranslated into several languages, most editions of \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" contain at least one introduction/foreword, a preface, and four chapters.\n\nThe first chapter explores how oppression has been justified and how it is reproduced through a mutual process between the \"oppressor\" and the \"oppressed\" (oppressors–oppressed distinction). Examining how the balance of power between the colonizer and the colonized remains relatively stable, Freire admits that the powerless in society can be frightened of freedom. He writes, \"Freedom is acquired by conquest, not by gift. It must be pursued constantly and responsibly. Freedom is not an ideal located outside of man; nor is it an idea which becomes myth. It is rather the indispensable condition for the quest for human completion\". According to Freire, freedom will be the result of \"praxis\"—informed action—when a balance between theory and practice is achieved.\n\nThe second chapter examines the \"banking\" approach to education—a metaphor used by Freire that suggests students are considered empty bank accounts that should remain open to deposits made by the teacher. Freire rejects the \"banking\" approach, claiming it results in the dehumanization of both the students and the teachers. In addition, he argues the banking approach stimulates oppressive attitudes and practices in society. Instead, Freire advocates for a more world-mediated, mutual approach to education that encourages the co-creation of knowledge. According to Freire, this \"authentic\" approach to education must allow people to be aware of their incompleteness and strive to be more fully human. This attempt to use education as a means of consciously shaping the person and the society is called conscientization, a term first coined by Freire in this book.\n\nThe third chapter discusses the idea that \"to speak the true word is to transform the world\". Freire developed the use of the term limit situation with regards to dimensions of human praxis. This is in line with 's use of the word/idea in his \"\", which Freire contends is \"using the concept without the pessimistic character originally found in Jaspers\" (Note 15, Chapter 3), in reference to Karl Jaspers's notion of \"Grenzsituationen\".\n\nThe last chapter proposes dialogics as an instrument to free the colonized, through the use of cooperation, unity, organization and cultural synthesis (overcoming problems in society to liberate human beings). This is in contrast to antidialogics, which use conquest, manipulation, cultural invasion, and the concept of divide and rule. Freire suggests that populist dialogue is a necessity to revolution; that impeding dialogue dehumanizes and supports the status quo. This is but one example of the dichotomies Freire identifies in the book; others include the student-teacher dichotomy and the colonizer-colonized dichotomy.\n\nSince the publication of the English edition in 1970, \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" has been widely adopted in America's teacher-training programs. A 2003 study by David Steiner and Susan Rozen determined that \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" was frequently assigned at top education schools.\n\nThe work was strongly influenced by Frantz Fanon and Karl Marx. One of Freire's dictums is that \"there neither is, nor has ever been, an educational practice in zero space-time—neutral in the sense of being committed only to preponderantly abstract, intangible ideas.\"\n\nDonaldo Macedo, a former colleague of Freire and University of Massachusetts Boston professor, calls \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" a revolutionary text, and people in totalitarian states risk punishment reading it. During the South African anti-apartheid struggle, ad-hoc copies of \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" were distributed underground as part of the \"ideological weaponry\" of various revolutionary groups like the Black Consciousness Movement. In the 1970s and 1980s the book was banned and kept clandestine.\n\nIn his article for the conservative \"City Journal\", Sol Stern asserts that \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\" ignores the traditional touchstones of Western education (\"e.g.\", Rousseau, John Dewey, or Maria Montessori) and contains virtually none of the information typically found in traditional teacher education (\"e.g.\", no discussion of curriculum, testing, or age-appropriate learning). To the contrary, Freire rejects traditional education as \"official knowledge\" that intends to oppress.\n\nStern also suggests that heirs to Freire's ideas have taken them to mean that since all education is political, \"leftist math teachers who care about the oppressed have a right, indeed a duty, to use a pedagogy that, in Freire's words, 'does not conceal—in fact, which proclaims—its own political character.'\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14921248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14921248", "title": "Peter Hallward", "text": "Peter Hallward\n\nPeter Hallward is a political philosopher, best known for his work on Alain Badiou and Gilles Deleuze. He has also published works on post-colonialism and contemporary Haiti. Hallward is a member of the editorial collective of the journal \"Radical Philosophy\" and a contributing editor to \"\".\n\nAfter completing his PhD at Yale University in French and African-American studies, Hallward became a lecturer, and then reader, of French philosophy and literature at King's College London from 1999 to 2004. He then joined the Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy, which relocated from Middlesex University to Kingston University. He is now a professor of Modern European Philosophy at Kingston University.\n\nHallward is currently working on a three part project on key philosophers of political will: Rousseau, Blanqui, and Marx. He is simultaneously working on a larger book entitled 'The Will of the People,' which will \"develop and defend a notion of democratic political will, understood as a rational, deliberate, and autonomous capacity for collective self-determination.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56121326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56121326", "title": "Physicus", "text": "Physicus\n\nPhysicus: Save the World with Science! is a 1999 educational adventure video game developed by HEUREKA-Klett Softwareverlag and published by Ruske & Puhretmaier Edutainment. It aims to teach players about physics concepts. It is part of a series that includes the chemistry-themed \"Chemicus\" (developed by Tivola Entertainment) and biology-themed sequel \"Bioscopia\". It was the second learning adventure game by Ruske & Pühretmaier Multimedia after the music-based \"Opera Fatal\". The game's website had a minigame called \"PHYSICO DriveIn\" that players could download and complete in to get the highscore, which would win them a free copy of a game by the studio. A sequel entitled Physicus: The Return was later released, and was remade for the iOS.\n\nGameplay is similar to \"Myst\", in which players traverse through a series of computer generated static screens\".\" Players can investigate physical locations, manipulate items, and complete puzzles. to progress through the game.\n\nThe educational content covered four areas: Optics, Mechanics, Acoustics, and Electricity.\n\nWhen a meteorite collides with Earth, its planetary rotation ceases causing one hemisphere to be plunged into heat and the other into coldness. The player is tasked with using science to save the planet.\n\n\"Tap Repeatedly\" thought the game was made in the same vein as Myst, and complimented its \"charming...lighthearted\" design philosophy that effectively taught players in an engaging manner. Allgame noted that the game's use of the metric system and British accent of the narrator could act as barriers to North American players. Adventure Spiele wrote that the game would be able to teach some physics concepts to even the uninitiated. Quandaryland thought it would be a shame if the game's educational nature turned people off an experience as enjoyable as many non-educational titles. Adventure Gamers noted the game's potential application within schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23521674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23521674", "title": "RMIT School of Media and Communication", "text": "RMIT School of Media and Communication\n\nRMIT's School of Media and Communication is an Australian tertiary education school within the College of Design and Social Context at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University), located in Melbourne, Victoria.\n\nThe school hosts the university's Advertising, Animation, Audio/Visual, Communication Design, Creative Writing, Editing and Publishing, Film and Television, Journalism, Media, Music Industry, Multimedia, Photography, Professional Communication (a hybrid-degree which crosses Journalism, Media and Public Relations), Public Relations and Video Games programs.\n\nThe school was formed by the merger of the RMIT School of Creative Media and RMIT School of Applied Communication on 6 July 2009.\n\nThe school is headquartered in Building 9 (RMIT's historical radio communications building) on Bowen Street at the RMIT City campus, located in the \"RMIT Quarter\" at the northern end of the Melbourne CBD. It moved in 2010 from Building 6, but because of its size still has staff in other buildings in the city campus. The school is also located in Building 94 on Cardigan Street in the \"Carlton Precinct\" of the RMIT City campus.\n\nThe School of Media and Communication provides programs that supports students to launch or advance their career in communication, design games and media.\n\nThe Australian Film Institute (AFI) Research Collection is a non-lending, specialist film and television industry resource. It opened in the mid-1970s as the George Lugg Library, and was a joint venture between the AFI and the Victorian Federation of Film Societies. In 2002 it became an auspice of the RMIT School of Media and Communication, in conjunction with the AFI.\n\nThe school publishes Journals and publications, the most notable is \"Communication, Politics & Culture\"(formerly known as Southern Review: Communication, Politics & Culture) is an interdisciplinary journal focusing on the connections between communication and politics, published twice a year. It was first published in 1963 (as the \"Australian Journal of Literary Studies\") by the English Department of the University of Adelaide. It gained a reputation in the 1980s through the publication of analyses in literary and cultural theory. It relocated from the University of Adelaide to the Communication Department of Monash University in 1995, before it permanently became part of the RMIT School of Media and Communication in 2000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13004078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13004078", "title": "Randy Pausch", "text": "Randy Pausch\n\nRandolph Frederick Pausch (October 23, 1960 – July 25, 2008) was an American professor of computer science, human–computer interaction, and design at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nPausch learned that he had pancreatic cancer in September 2006, and in August 2007, he was given a terminal diagnosis: \"3 to 6 months of good health left\". He gave an upbeat lecture titled \"The Last Lecture: Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams\" on September 18, 2007, at Carnegie Mellon, which became a popular YouTube video and led to other media appearances. He then co-authored a book called \"The Last Lecture\" on the same theme, which became a \"New York Times\" best-seller.\n\nPausch died of complications from pancreatic cancer on July 25, 2008.\n\nPausch was born in Baltimore, Maryland, and grew up in Columbia, Maryland. After graduating from Oakland Mills High School in Columbia, Pausch received his bachelor's degree in computer science from Brown University in May 1982 and his Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie Mellon University in August 1988. While completing his doctoral studies, Pausch was briefly employed at Xerox Palo Alto Research Center and Adobe Systems.\n\nPausch was an assistant and associate professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Virginia's School of Engineering and Applied Science from 1988 until 1997. While there, he completed sabbaticals at Walt Disney Imagineering and Electronic Arts (EA). In 1997, Pausch became Associate Professor of Computer Science, Human-Computer Interaction, and Design at Carnegie Mellon University. In 1998, he was a co-founder, along with Don Marinelli, of CMU's Entertainment Technology Center (ETC), and he started the Building Virtual Worlds course at CMU, which he taught for 10 years. He consulted with Google on user interface design and also consulted with PARC, Imagineering, and Media Metrix. Pausch is also the founder of the Alice software project. He received the National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator Award and was a Lilly Foundation Teaching Fellow. Pausch was the author or co-author of five books and over 70 articles.\n\nPausch received two awards from ACM in 2007 for his achievements in computing education: the Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award and the ACM Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education Award for Outstanding Contributions to Computer Science Education. He was also inducted as a Fellow of the ACM in 2007.\n\nPausch was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and underwent a Whipple procedure (pancreaticoduodenectomy) on September 19, 2006, in an unsuccessful attempt to halt the disease. He was told in August 2007 to expect a remaining three to six months of good health. He soon moved his family to Chesapeake, Virginia, to be close to his wife's family. On March 13, 2008, Pausch advocated for greater federal funding for pancreatic cancer before the United States Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies. In the week prior to this, he had been hospitalized in order to have needle aspiration of pleural effusion in his right lung.\n\nOn May 2, 2008, a positron emission tomography (PET) scan showed that he had very tiny ( or less) metastases in his lungs and in some of the lymph nodes in his chest. He also had metastases in his peritoneal and retroperitoneal cavities. On June 26, 2008, Pausch indicated that he was considering stopping further chemotherapy because of the potential adverse side effects. He was, however, considering some immuno-therapy-based approaches. On July 24, on behalf of Pausch, a friend anonymously posted a message on Pausch's webpage stating that a biopsy had indicated that the cancer had progressed farther than had been indicated by recent PET scans and that Pausch had \"taken a step down\" and was \"much sicker than he had been\". The friend also stated that Pausch had then enrolled in a hospice program designed to provide palliative care to those at the end of life.\n\nPausch died from pancreatic cancer at his family's home in Chesapeake, Virginia, on July 25, 2008, at the age of 47. He is survived by his wife, Jai, and their three children, Dylan, Logan, and Chloe.\n\nPausch delivered his \"Last Lecture\", titled \"Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams\", at CMU on September 18, 2007. He gave an abridged version of his speech on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" in October 2007. The talk was modeled after an ongoing series of lectures where top academics are asked to think deeply about what matters to them, and then give a hypothetical \"final talk\", with a topic such as \"what wisdom would you try to impart to the world if you knew it was your last chance?\" Before speaking, Pausch received a long standing ovation from a large crowd of over 400 colleagues and students. When he motioned them to sit down, saying, \"Make me earn it\", someone in the audience shouted back, \"You did!\"\n\nDuring the lecture, Pausch offered inspirational life lessons, and performed push-ups on stage. He also commented on the irony that the \"Last Lecture\" series had recently been renamed as \"Journeys\", saying, \"I thought, damn, I finally nailed the venue and they renamed it.\" After Pausch finished his lecture, Steve Seabolt, on behalf of Electronic Arts—which is now collaborating with CMU in the development of Alice 3.0—pledged to honor Pausch by creating a memorial scholarship for women in computer science, in recognition of Pausch's support and mentoring of women in CS and engineering.\n\nCMU president Jared Cohon spoke emotionally of Pausch's humanity and called his contributions to the university and to education \"remarkable and stunning\". He then announced that CMU will celebrate Pausch's impact on the world by building and naming after Pausch a raised pedestrian bridge to connect CMU's new Computer Science building and the Center for the Arts, symbolizing the way Pausch linked those two disciplines. Brown University professor Andries van Dam followed Pausch's last lecture with a tearful and impassioned speech praising him for his courage and leadership, calling him a role model.\n\nThe Randy Pausch Memorial Footbridge was dedicated on October 30, 2009, with Jai, Dylan, Logan, and Chloe Pausch cutting the ribbon.\n\nThe Disney-owned publisher Hyperion paid $6.7 million for the rights to publish a book about Pausch called \"The Last Lecture\", co-authored by Pausch and \"Wall Street Journal\" reporter Jeffrey Zaslow. The book became a \"New York Times\" best-seller on April 28, 2008. \"The Last Lecture\" expands on Pausch's speech. The book's first printing had 400,000 copies, and it has been translated into 46 languages. It has spent more than 85 weeks on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list, and there are now more than 4.5 million copies in print in the U.S. alone. Despite speculation that the book would be made into a movie, Pausch had denied these rumors, stating that \"there's a reason to do the book, but if it's telling the story of the lecture in the medium of film, we already have that.\"\n\nPausch was named \"Person of the Week\" on ABC's World News with Charles Gibson on September 21, 2007. His \"Last Lecture\" attracted wide attention from the international media, became an Internet hit, and was viewed over a million times in the first month after its delivery. On October 22, 2007, Pausch appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" where he discussed his situation and summarized his \"Last Lecture\". On October 6, 2007, Pausch joined the Pittsburgh Steelers for the day during their regular practice, after the organization learned that one of his childhood dreams mentioned in his \"Last Lecture\" was to play in the NFL.\nOn April 9, 2008, the ABC network aired an hour-long Diane Sawyer feature on Pausch titled \"The Last Lecture: A Love Story For Your Life\". On July 29, 2008, ABC aired a follow-up to the Last Lecture special, remembering Pausch and his famous lecture.\n\nPausch gave a lecture about time management on November 27, 2007 at the University of Virginia, to an audience of over 850 people. In March 2008, Pausch appeared in a public service announcement video and testified before Congress in support of cancer research. On May 18, 2008, Pausch made a surprise return appearance at Carnegie Mellon, giving a speech at the commencement ceremony, as well as attending the School of Computer Science's diploma ceremony, and on May 19 Pausch appeared on the show \"Good Morning America\". His lecture, \"Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams\", was nominated at the 2007 YouTube Video Awards.\n\nA devoted \"Star Trek\" fan, Pausch was invited by film director J. J. Abrams to film a role in \"Star Trek\". Abrams heard of Pausch's condition and sent a personal e-mail inviting Pausch to the set. Pausch accepted and traveled to Los Angeles, California, to shoot his scene. In addition to appearing in the film, he also has a line of dialogue at the beginning of the film (\"Captain, we have visual.\") and donated the $217.06 paycheck to charity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17130735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17130735", "title": "Reconstructivism", "text": "Reconstructivism\n\nReconstructivism is a philosophical theory holding that societies should continually reform themselves in order to establish more perfect governments or social networks. This ideology involves recombining or recontextualizing the ideas arrived at by the philosophy of deconstruction, in which an existing system or medium is broken into its smallest meaningful elements and in which these elements are used to build a new system or medium free from the strictures of the original.\n\nSome thinkers have attempted to ascribe the term Reconstructivism to the post-postmodern art movement. In an essay by Chris Sunami, (Art Essays: Reconstructivist Art) \"reconstructivist art\" is described as follows:\n\nOne of the examples Sunami provides of this technique is the way some modern music incorporates deconstructed samples of older music and combines and arranges the samples in a new way as part of a new composition.\n\n"}
{"id": "3471424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3471424", "title": "Richard Dimbleby Lecture", "text": "Richard Dimbleby Lecture\n\nThe Richard Dimbleby Lecture (also known as the Dimbleby Lecture) was founded in memory of Richard Dimbleby, the BBC broadcaster. It has been delivered by an influential business or political figure almost every year since 1972 (with gaps in 1981, 1991, 1993 and 2008).\n"}
{"id": "261683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261683", "title": "Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League", "text": "Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League\n\nThe Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League (UNIA-ACL) is a black nationalist fraternal organization founded in 1914 in the United States by Marcus Mosiah Garvey, a Jamaican immigrant. The Pan-African organization enjoyed its greatest strength in the 1920s, and was influential in the United States prior to Garvey's deportation to Jamaica in 1927. After that its prestige and influence declined, but it had a strong influence on African-American history and development. The UNIA was said to be \"unquestionably, the most influential anticolonial organization in Jamaica prior to 1938.\" (Honor Ford-Smith)\n\nThe organization was founded to work for the advancement of people of African ancestry around the world. Its motto is \"One God! One Aim! One Destiny!\" and its slogan is \"Africa for the Africans, at home and abroad!\" The broad mission of the UNIA-ACL led to the establishment of numerous auxiliary components, among them the Universal African Legion, a paramilitary group; the African Black Cross Nurses; African Black Cross Society; the Universal African Motor Corps; the Black Eagle Flying Corps; and businesses such as the Black Star Steamship Line, the Black Cross Trading and Navigation Corporation, and the Negro Factories Corporation.\n\nIn an article entitled \"The Negro's Greatest Enemy\", published in \"Current History\" (September 1923), Garvey explained the origin of the organization's name:\n\nWhere did the name of the organization come from? It was while speaking to a West Indian Negro who was a passenger with me from Southampton, who was returning home to the East Indies from Basutoland with his Basuto wife, I further learned of the horrors of native life in Africa. He related to me in conversation such horrible and pitiable tales that my heart bled within me. Retiring from the conversation to my cabin, all day and the following night I pondered over the subject matter of that conversation, and at midnight, lying flat on my back, the vision and thought came to me that I should name the organization the Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities (Imperial) League. Such a name I thought would embrace the purpose of all black humanity. Thus to the world a name was born, a movement created, and a man became known.\n\nOriginally from Saint Ann's Bay, Jamaica, Marcus Garvey left at 23 and traveled throughout Central America and moved for a time to England. During his travels he became convinced that uniting Blacks was the only way to improve their condition. Towards that end, he departed England on June 14, 1914, aboard the SS \"Trent\", returning to Jamaica on July 15, 1914. He traveled to the United States, where he founded the Universal Negro Improvement Association (UNIA) in August 1914 in Akron, Ohio. He intended it to unite all of Africa and its diaspora into \"one grand racial hierarchy.\" After traveling through the United States beginning in March 1916, Garvey inaugurated the New York Division of the UNIA in 1917 with 13 members. After three months, the organization's dues-paying membership reached 3,500.\n\n\"The Negro World\" was founded on August 17, 1918, as a weekly newspaper to express the ideas of the organization. Garvey contributed a front-page editorial each week in which he developed the organization's position on different issues related to people of African ancestry around the world, in general, and the UNIA, in particular. Eventually claiming a circulation of 500,000, the newspaper was printed in several languages. It contained a page specifically for women readers, documented international events related to people of African ancestry, and was distributed throughout the African diaspora until publication ceased in 1933.\n\nIn 1919, the UNIA purchased the first of what would be numerous Liberty Halls. Located at 114 West 138th Street, in Harlem, New York City, the building had a seating capacity of 6,000. The single-level hall with low ceilings had previously been home to the Metropolitan Baptist Tabernacle. It was dedicated on July 27, 1919. On Sunday evenings, it was the site of the weekly UNIA meeting; it also housed a restaurant. Later that year the Association organized the first of its two steamship companies and a separate business corporation.\n\nIncorporated in Delaware as a domestic corporation on June 27, 1919, the Black Star Line, Inc. (BSL) was capitalized at 10 million dollars. It sold shares individually valued at five dollars to both UNIA members and non-members alike. Proceeds from stock sales were used to purchase first the SS \"Yarmouth\" and then the SS \"Shady Side\". The \"Shady Side\" was used by the association for summer outings and excursions, as well as rented out on charter to other organizations. The BSL later purchased the \"Kanawha\" as its third vessel. This small yacht was intended for inter-island transportation in the West Indies and was rechristened the SS \"Antonio Maceo\".\n\nAlso established in 1919 was the Negro Factories Corporation, with a capitalization of one million dollars. It generated income and provided around 700 jobs by its numerous enterprises: three grocery stores, two restaurants, a laundry, a tailor shop, a dressmaking shop, a millinery store, a printing company, and doll factory. However, most went out of business by 1922.\n\nWith the growth of its membership from 1918 through 1924, as well as income from its various economic enterprises, UNIA purchased additional Liberty Halls in the USA, Canada, Costa Rica, Belize, Panama, Java, and other countries. UNIA also purchased farms in Ohio and other states. It purchased land in Claremont, Virginia with the intention of founding Liberty University.\n\nBy 1920 the association had over 1,900 divisions in more than 40 countries. Most of the divisions were located in the United States, which had become the UNIA's base of operations. There were, however, offices in several Caribbean countries, with Cuba having the most. Divisions also existed in Central and South America: Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Ecuador, and Venezuela; in Africa: Gold Coast (now Ghana), Sierra Leone, Liberia, Nigeria, South West Africa (now Namibia), and the Union of South Africa; and in India and Australia. \n\nFor the entire month of August 1920, the UNIA-ACL held its first international convention at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The 20,000 attending members promulgated \"The Declaration of Rights of the Negro Peoples of the World\" on August 13, 1920, and elected the leaders of the UNIA as \"leaders for the Negro people of the world\".\nThe organization put forth a program based on this declaration, marking the evolution of the movement as one promoting black nationalism. It sought the uplift of the black race and encouraged self-reliance and nationhood. Among the declarations was one proclaiming the red, black and green flag as the official banner of the African race. (Beginning in the 1960s, black nationalists and Pan-Africanists adopted the same flag as the Black Liberation Flag.) UNIA-ACL officially designated the song \"Ethiopia, Thou Land of Our Fathers\" as the official anthem of \"Africa and the Africans, at home and Abroad\".\n\nUnder the provisions of the UNIA constitution, Gabriel Johnson was elected Supreme Potentate; G. O. Marke, Supreme Deputy Potentate; J. W. [H]. Eason, leader of the fifteen million \"Negroes\" of the United States of America; and Henrietta Vinton Davis, International Organizer. Garvey was elected \"Provisional President of Africa\", a mostly ceremonial title. George Alexander McGuire, an Episcopal priest, was elected as the first chaplain-general of the UNIA. \n\nMcGuire wrote two important documents for the organization: \"Universal Negro Ritual\" and \"Universal Negro Catechism\". For these he drew from his interest and knowledge of religion and race history. In Philadelphia, where he had earlier been the rector of St. Thomas Episcopal Church, McGuire had been an early member of the American Negro Historical Society. \n\nThe opening parade was one of the most striking features of the 1920 convention. It began outside the UNIA headquarters on West 135th Street, went uptown as far as 145th and downtown as far as 125th Street, taking it beyond the boundaries of black residence into white areas. Four mounted policemen, and the heads of Black Star Line and Negro Factories Corporation, led the parade, followed by cars carrying Garvey and Mayor of Monrovia, capital of Liberia, and other UNIA officials, then the Black Star Line Choir, on foot, and contingents from throughout US and Caribbean, Canada, Nigeria, carrying banners, and including 12 bands, with about 500 cars bringing up the rear. Similar dramatic parades were featured in the 1922 and 1924 conventions. Many photographs survive of the 1924 Convention Parade, as Garvey employed noted photographer James Van Der Zee to record the event.\n\nEven after Garvey had left Harlem (he was imprisoned in 1925 and deported to Jamaica in 1927), the UNIA paraded each August throughout the 1920s, with the place of honour given to portraits of their absent leader. The crowds were transfixed by the spectacle of uniformed UNIA members, particularly the African Legion and Black Cross Nurses. \n\nAccording to the preamble of the 1929 constitution as amended, the UNIA is a \nsocial, friendly, humanitarian, charitable, educational, institutional, constructive and expansive society, and is founded by persons desiring to do the utmost to work for the general uplift of the people of African ancestry of the world. And the members pledge themselves to do all in their power to conserve the rights of their noble race and to respect the rights of all mankind, believing always in the Brotherhood of Man and the Fatherhood of God. The motto of the organization is 'One God! One Aim! One Destiny!' Therefore, let justice be done to all mankind, realizing that if the strong oppresses the weak, confusion and discontent will ever mark the path of man but with love, faith and charity towards all the reign of peace and plenty will be heralded into the world and the generations of men shall be called Blessed.\n\nAlthough UNIA was not solely a \"Back to Africa\" movement, the organization did work to arrange for emigration for African Americans who wanted to go there. In late 1923, an official UNIA delegation that included Robert Lincoln Poston and Henrietta Vinton Davis traveled to Liberia to survey potential land sites for possible purchase. They also assessed the general condition of the country from the standpoint of UNIA members interested in living in Africa.\n\nBy 1924 the Chief Justice J. J. Dossen of Liberia wrote to UNIA conveying the government's support: \n\"The President directs me to say in reply to your letter of June 8 setting forth the objects and purposes of the Universal Negro Improvement Association, that the Government of Liberia, appreciating as they do the aims of your organization as outlined by you, have no hesitancy in assuring you that they will afford the Association every facility legally possible in effectuating in Liberia its industrial, agricultural and business projects.\"\n\nAbout two months later, however, the Liberian President unexpectedly ordered all Liberian ports to refuse entry to any member of the \"Garvey Movement\". This action closely followed the Firestone Rubber Company's agreement with Liberia for a 99-year lease of one million acres (4,000 km²) of land. It was extracting and processing rubber for the world market. This land deal had been assisted by American and European governments. Originally Liberia had intended to lease the land to UNIA at an unprecedented dollar an acre ($247/km²). The commercial agreement with Firestone Tire dealt a severe blow to the UNIA's African repatriation program and inspired speculation that the actions were linked.\n\nAfter Garvey's conviction and imprisonment on mail fraud charges in 1925 and deportation to Jamaica in 1927, the organization began to take on a different character. In 1926, George Weston succeeded Garvey in a UNIA Convention Election, becoming the second elected President-General of the UNIA, Inc. Many Garvey supporters were angered, and split off into rival entities such as the \"Garvey Clubs\" and other organizations, based on members' differing interpretation of the original aims and objects of the UNIA.\n\nBut the UNIA continued to be officially recognized as the \"Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League\". A rival \"UNIA-ACL August 1929 of the World\" emerged, headed by Marcus Garvey after his deportation to Jamaica.\n\nGarvey appointed Maymie de Mena as his official representative to head the American field after his ouster to Jamaica. She was a fiery orator and spoke both Spanish and English, helping with the spread of the organization through Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nThe UNIA, Inc., after Garvey's departure, continued to operate out of New York until 1941. After Weston's 1926 election to President-General, he was succeeded by Frederick Augustus Toote (1929), Clifford Bourne (1930), Lionel Antonio Francis (1931–34), Henrietta Vinton Davis (1934–40), Lionel Antonio Francis (1940–61), Captain A. L. King (1961–81) and Milton Kelly, Jr. (1981–2007).\n\nIn a historic 1939 British Supreme Court decision, President-General Francis was recognized as the rightful administrative heir to the huge Sir Isaiah Emmanuel Morter (DSOE) Estate in Belize. The organization's administrative headquarters were shifted to Belize in 1941 when the President-General relocated there from New York.\n\nUpon Francis's death in 1961 during Hurricane Hattie, the presidency shifted back to New York under the leadership of Captain A. L. King, formerly president of the Central Division of the UNIA in New York. After his death in the early 1980s, longtime Garveyite organizer Milton Kelly, Jr. assumed the administrative reins and continued to head the association until 2007.\n\nThe UNIA 1929 headed by Garvey continued operating in Jamaica until he moved to England in 1935. There he set up office for the parent body of the UNIA 1929 and maintained contact with all its divisions. UNIA 1929 conventions were held in Canada in 1936, 1937, and 1938. The 1937 sessions were highlighted by the introduction of the first course of African philosophy conducted by Garvey.\n\nGarvey became ill in January 1940, and died on June 10, 1940. UNIA members worldwide participated in eulogies, memorial services and processions in his honor. Secretary-General Ethel Collins briefly managed the affairs of the UNIA from New York until a successor to Garvey could be formally installed to complete his term as President-General.\n\nDuring an emergency commissioners' conference in June 1940, James R. Stewart, a commissioner from Ohio and graduate of the course of African philosophy, was named the successor. In the months to follow, the Parent Body of the UNIA was moved from its temporary headquarters in New York to Cleveland. In October 1940 the \"New Negro World\" started publishing out of Cleveland. After the 1942 International Convention in Cleveland, a rehabilitating committee of disgruntled members was held in New York during September.\n\nStewart moved to Monrovia, Liberia, in 1949. He took Liberian citizenship and moved the Parent Body of the UNIA there. He continued to lead the Association as President-General until his death in 1964. Stewart and his entire family relocated deeper into the interior of the country, establishing themselves in Gbandela, Liberia. There they established a hospital, school and farm.\n\nWhen Stewart died from cancer in 1964, the Parent Body was moved from Monrovia to Youngstown, Ohio, where James A. Bennett took the reins. In 1968 Bennett was succeeded by Vernon Wilson.\n\nAfter President-General Wilson's death in 1975, Mason Harvgrave became next President General. Hargrave testified during United States congressional hearings in August 1987 in relation to the proposed exoneration of Marcus Garvey on charges of mail fraud. The findings of the Judiciary Committee were: Garvey was innocent of the charges against him. Although the Committee determined he had been found guilty earlier due to the social climate of America at the time, they had no legal basis upon which to exonerate a person who had died. \n\nAfter President General Hargrave died in 1988, all his papers and other Parent Body material were turned over to the Western Reserve Historical Society in Cleveland, Ohio, for safe-keeping. From 1988 until the present, Cleo Miller, Jr. has held the title of President General.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7186183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7186183", "title": "William S. Gray", "text": "William S. Gray\n\nWilliam S. Gray (1885–1960) was an American educator and literacy advocate.\n\nGray was born in the town of Coatsburg, Illinois on June 5, 1885. He graduated from high school in 1904 and began teaching in a one-room school house in Adams County, Illinois. After four years of teaching and being a principal he went to Illinois State Normal University for a two-year teacher training course. His studies were influenced by the North American Herbartian movement that emphasized starting with what the child knows and proceeding with an inductive instructional approach.\n\nGray proceeded to advance his education at the University of Chicago where he earned a baccalaureate in 1913.\n\nHe then spent a year (1913–1914) at Teachers College of Columbia University, the only other teachers' college in the country besides Chicago. There, he came under the influence of Edward Thorndike and Charles Judd, both of whom had been influenced by pragmatists William James and John Dewey. Thorndike and Judd were also among the first to apply the new statistical methods of applied psychology to education, considered the most significant development in the whole history of education in the United States, and would later move their work to Chicago.\n\nAt Columbia, Gray \"turned toward objective measurement, mathematical precision, a critical attitude, efficiency in schools, diagnosis based on results, and the use of research results which supported the economy of silent reading, and the importance of a sequential program of reading instruction ... the very basis of reading instruction in this country for almost the next half century.\" At the end of his year in Columbia, he earned a Master of Arts degree and a Teachers College diploma, \"Instructor in Education in Normal School.\"\n\nGray returned to the University of Chicago to earn a Ph.D. in 1916 for one of the first three doctoral dissertations on reading. His was titled \"Studies of Elementary School Reading Through Standardized Tests.\" Gray's academic career at the University of Chicago lasted from 1916–1945. He served as Director of Research in Reading at the Graduate School of Education, at the University of Chicago and became the first president of the International Reading Association. Jeanne S. Chall called him \"the acknowledged leader of, and spokesman for, reading experts for four decades.\" During his lifetime, he was known as one of the most influential persons and researchers in the field. His contemporaries included Arthur Irving Gates (1890–1972); Ernest Horn (1882–1967); and Ruth Strang (1896–1971).\n\nIn 1929, Gray began his affiliation with the publisher Scott Foresman. He was a co-author, along with Zerna Sharp, on the series that gave us the Dick, Jane, Sally, Spot and Puff early readers. From 1927 to 1960, these books were used to teach millions of Americans how to read. Today Dick and Jane are cultural icons for many from the baby boom generation.\n\nGray's study of worldwide literacy for UNESCO took four years of research and resulted in the book, \"The teaching of reading and writing: An international survey.\" Gray was the leading expert on reading in the first half of the 20th century. He promoted the whole word method of teaching reading supported by attention to context, configuration, structural and graphophonemic cues. Educators like Helen Huus found Gray's method comprehensive, because first children memorized a few words by sight, then developed the sight-word correspondence by using these known words as reference points.\n\nGray was also author of over 500 studies, reviews, articles, and books on reading and instruction, including \"On Their Own in Reading: How to Give Children Independence in Analyzing New Words\". He was Reading Director of the Curriculum Foundation Series Scott, Foresman & Company.\n\nIn 1935, Gray teamed up with Bernice Leary of St. Xavier College, Chicago, to publish their landmark work in readability, \"What Makes a Book Readable\". It attempted to discover what makes a book readable for adults of limited reading ability.\n\nThe first part of the study consisted of a literacy survey of adults between 15 and 50, one of the first survey of adult civilians in the U.S.\n\nThe sample consisted of 1,690 adults from a variety of institutions and areas around the country. The testing consisted of two parts. The first used a number of fiction and non-fiction passages taken from magazines, books, and newspapers. The second part used the Monroe Standardized Reading Test, which gave the results in grade scores.\n\nThe results showed a mean grade score of 7.81. This meant that the adults tested were able to read with an average proficiency equal to that of pupils in the eighth month of the seventh grade. Some 44 percent reached or surpassed the reading level of eighth-grade students of the elementary school.\n\nAbout one-third fell in grades 2 to 6, another third from 7 to 12, and the remainder from 13 to 17. These results roughly mark the elementary, secondary, and college levels.\n\nThe authors stressed that half the adult population is lacking suitable materials written at their level. “For them,” they wrote, “the enriching values of reading are denied, unless materials reflecting adult interests be adapted to meet their needs.”\n\nOne third of the population needs materials written at the 4th, 5th, and 6th-grade levels. The poorest readers—one sixth of the adult population—need “still simpler materials for use in promoting functioning literacy and in establishing fundamental reading habits”. (p. 95)\n\nThe criterion used by Gray and Leary included 48 selections of about 100 words each, half of them fiction, taken from the books, magazines, and newspapers most widely read by adults. They established the difficulty of these selections by a reading-comprehension test given to about 800 adults designed to test their ability to get the main idea of the passage.\n\nThe second part of \"What Makes a Book Readable\" was an extensive examination of the elements of writing style that affects readability (reading ease). Until the studies of John Bormuth in the 1970s, no one studied readability so thoroughly or investigated so many style elements or the relationships between them. The authors first identified 289 elements that affect readability and grouped them under these four headings:\n\n1. Content\n2. Style\n3. Format\n4. Features of Organization\n\nThe authors found that content, with a slight margin over style, was most important. Third in importance was format, and almost equal to it, “features of organization,” referring to the chapters, sections, headings, and paragraphs that show the relationship of ideas. (p. 31)\n\nThey found they could not measure content, format, or organization statistically, though many would later try. While not ignoring the other three causes, Gray and Leary concentrated on 82 variables of style, 64 of which they could reliably count. They gave several tests to about a thousand people. Each test included several passages and questions to show how well the subjects understood them.\n\nHaving a measure, now, of the difficulty of each passage, they were able to see what style variables changed as the pas-sage got harder. They used correlation coefficients to show those relationships.\n\nOf the 64 countable variables related to reading difficulty, those with correlations of .35 or above were the following (p. 115):\n\nAlthough none of the variables studied had a higher correlation than .52, the authors knew by combining variables, they could reach higher levels of correlation. Because combining variables that were tightly related to each other did not raise the correlation coefficient, they needed to find which elements were highly predictive but not related to each other.\n\nGray and Leary used five of the above variables, numbers 1, 5, 8, 15, and 17, to create a formula, which has a correlation of .645 with reading-difficulty scores. An important characteristic of readability formulas is that one that uses more variables may be only minutely more accurate but much more difficult to measure and apply. Later formulas that use fewer variables may have higher correlations (pp. 137–139).\n\nGray and Leary’s work stimulated an enormous effort to find the perfect formula, using different combinations of the style variables. In 1954, Klare and Buck listed 25 formulas for children and another 14 for adult readers. By 1981, George Klare noted there were over 200 published formulas.\n\nResearch eventually established that the two variables commonly used in readability formulas–a semantic (meaning) measure such as difficulty of vocabulary and a syntactic (sentence structure) measure such as average sentence length—are the best predictors of textual difficulty.\n\n"}
