{"id": "483055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=483055", "title": "Acequia", "text": "Acequia\n\nAn acequia () or séquia () is a community-operated watercourse used in Spain and former Spanish colonies in the Americas for irrigation. Particularly in Spain, the Andes, northern Mexico, and the modern-day American Southwest, acequias are usually historically engineered canals that carry snow runoff or river water to distant fields. It can also refer to the long central pool in a Moorish garden, such as the Generalife in the Alhambra in Southern Iberia.\n\nThe Spanish word \"acequia\" (and Catalan \"séquia\") comes from Classical Arabic \"as-sāqiya\", which has the double entendre of \"the water conduit\" or \"one that bears water\" and the \"barmaid\". The Romans brought the technology to Iberia during their occupation of the Iberian peninsula, then the Arabs extended their use although they are originally from Persia. The technology was adopted later by the Spanish and Portuguese (levadas on Madeira Island), utilized throughout their conquered lands, except in e.g. Mendoza, Argentina where acequias today run along both sides of all city streets but originally were dug all around by the indigenous Huarpes long before the arrival of the Spanish.\n\nIn the United States, the oldest acequias were established more than 400 years ago; many continue to provide a primary source of water for farming and ranching ventures in areas of the United States once occupied by Spain or Mexico including the region of northern New Mexico and south central Colorado known as the Upper Rio Grande watershed or Rio Arriba (see Rivera 1998).\n\nAcequias are gravity chutes, similar in concept to flumes. Some acequias are conveyed through pipes or aqueducts, of modern fabrication or decades or centuries old (see transvasement). The majority, however, are simple open ditches with dirt banks. In many communities, the ditchbanks are important routes for non-motorized travel.\n\nResearchers affiliated with the Rio Grande Bioregions Project at Colorado College initiated a pioneering collaborative, farmer-led, and interdisciplinary study of Colorado and New Mexico acequias in 1995-1999. Among the most significant findings of this study was that the acequia farms provide vital ecosystem and economic base services to the regions in which they are located. One study, as reported in Peña (2003), found that acequia agroecosystems promote soil conservation and soil formation, provide terrestrial wildlife habitat and movement corridors; protect water quality and fish habitat, promote the conservation of domesticated biodiversity of land race heirloom crops, and encourage the maintenance of a strong land and water ethic and sense of place, among other ecological and economic base values. This pioneering research on acequia ecosystem services, led by environmental anthropologist Devon G. Peña, has more recently been confirmed in other studies (Fernald et al., 2007, 2010, 2015; Raheem et al., 2015).\n\nKnown among water users simply as \"the Acequia\", various legal entities embody the community associations, or acequia associations, that govern members' water usage, depending on local precedents and traditions. An acequia organization often must include commissioners and a majordomo who administers usage of water from a ditch, regulating which holders of water rights can release water to their fields on which days. In New Mexico, by state statute, acequias as registered bodies must have three commissioners and a mayordomo (see Rivera, 1998, pp. 59–60). Irrigation and conservation districts typically have their own version of mayordomos, usually referred to as \"ditch riders\" by members of the districts.\nIn recent years, acequias in New Mexico and Colorado have successfully developed and implemented changes in state water laws to accommodate the unique norms, customs, and practices of the acequia systems. The customary law of the acequia is older than and at variance with the Doctrine of Prior Appropriation, and the statutes promulgating acequia water law represent a rare instance of water pluralism in the context of Western water law in the United States (see Hicks and Peña 2003). For example, the Doctrine of Prior Appropriation is based on the principle of \"first in use, first in right,\" while acequia norms incorporate not just priority but principles of equity and fairness. This is evident in the fact that Prior Appropriation considers water to be a commodity owned by private individuals while acequia systems treat water as a community resource that irrigators have a shared right to use, manage, and protect. While Prior doctrines allow for water to be sold away from the basin of origin, the acequia system prohibits the transference of water from the watershed in which it is situated and thus considers water as an \"asset-in-place\". The Prior regime is based on a governance regime in which the members of a mutual ditch company will vote based on their proportional ownership of shares so that larger farmers have more votes. In contrast, the acequia system follows a \"one farmer, one vote\" system that has led researchers to consider this a form of \"water democracy\" (see Rivera 1998; Peña 2003). Acequia water law also requires that all persons with irrigation rights participate in the annual maintenance of the community ditch including the annual spring time ditch cleanup known as the \"limpieza y saca de acequia\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31102927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31102927", "title": "Act of the National Assembly for Wales", "text": "Act of the National Assembly for Wales\n\nIn Wales, an Act of the National Assembly for Wales () (informally, an Act of the Assembly) is primary legislation that can be made by the National Assembly for Wales under part 4 of the Government of Wales Act 2006. The power to make Acts of the Assembly was conferred on the assembly following the 2011 elections as a commencement order had been passed in the assembly by simple majority prior to dissolution. The activation of part 4 legislative powers was as a result of a \"yes\" vote in the 2011 referendum held in Wales. When the power to make Acts of the Assembly commenced, the assembly lost the ability to make Measures under part 3 of the 2006 Act. Existing Measures will remain as law unless repealed.\n\nBills may be introduced by Welsh Government, a committee of the Assembly, the Assembly Commission or by individual Assembly Members. Ballots are held to select which individual assembly members may present bills. \n\nOnce a bill is introduced, there are four stages that need to be completed prior to the bill being submitted for royal assent. The first stage involves consideration of the general principles of the bill by a committee of the assembly and then agreement of these principles by the assembly in plenary session. In the second stage, the bill is considered in detail by a bill committee. The third stage involves detailed consideration of the bill and any amendments by the assembly in plenary, this can be followed by a Report Stage where further amendments can be proposed. Finally, in the fourth stage, the assembly votes to pass the bill in its final form.\n\nWhen a bill completes its passage through the assembly, it enters a four-week period of intimation, during which the Attorney General for England and Wales or the Counsel General for Wales may refer the bill to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom if they consider that any provisions of the bill are outside the legislative competency of the assembly. The Secretary of State for Wales may also make an order prohibiting the Clerk to the Assembly from submitting the Bill for royal assent during this time. After the period of intimation expires, the Clerk may submit the bill for royal assent. The bill becomes an Act of the Assembly when Letters Patent under the Welsh Seal are made by the Queen to signify assent.\n\nRoyal assent to Acts of the Assembly is given by means of Letters Patent using the following wording:\n\nThe Letters Patent may also be made in Welsh:\n\nActs of the Assembly begin with the following words of enactment:\n\nEnglish Language: \"Having been passed by the National Assembly for Wales and having received the assent of Her Majesty, it is enacted as follows:-\"\n\nWelsh Language: \"Gan ei fod wedi ei basio gan Gynulliad Cenedlaethol Cymru a chael cysyniad Ei Mawrhydi, deddfir fel a ganlyn:-\"\n\nUnder part 4 of the Government of Wales Act 2006, the assembly has legislative competence in the following 20 \"Subjects\" outlined on schedule 7 of that act:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53896565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53896565", "title": "BAMTech", "text": "BAMTech\n\nBAMTech Media is a technology subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company located in Manhattan, New York City. It was established in 2015 as a spin-off of MLB Advanced Media—the digital media arm of Major League Baseball, focused on providing streaming video technology, particularly for over-the-top content (OTT) services. The company's major clients include ESPN (for its WatchESPN service), the NHL, HBO (for its HBO Now service), the PGA Tour, Riot Games (for \"League of Legends\" e-sports), PlayStation Vue, WWE Network and TheBlaze.\n\nIt was majority owned by MLB Advanced Media (which is, in turn, a consortium of MLB's principal team owners), with minority stakes held by the National Hockey League and other investors. Disney acquired a minority stake in the company in August 2016 for $1 billion, and the following year, announced its intent to increase its stake to a 75% controlling stake for $1.58 billion. The deal was approved by regulators in September 2017. Following the acquisition of BAMTech by Disney, the company began to develop two subscription streaming services aligned with Disney properties: the sports-oriented service ESPN+, and the upcoming entertainment service Disney+.\n\nBAMTech was founded in February 2015 through MLB Advanced Media, spinning-out its streaming technology business into a separate company with outside investors. The formation of the company was approved by MLB Advanced Media's board of directors on August 13, 2015. Under the plan, MLB-specific properties (such as MLB.com) would remain under league control. In August 2016, The Walt Disney Company acquired a 1/3 stake in the company for $1 billion, with an option to acquire a majority stake in the future.\n\nOn November 1, 2016, BAMTech announced a partnership with Discovery Communications to form a European joint venture known as BAMTech Europe. Its first client is Eurosport, the pan-European rightsholder of the Olympic Games beginning 2018. The following month, Riot Games announced a deal with BAMTech for the company to distribute and monetize broadcasts of professional competitions in its multiplayer video game \"League of Legends\" through 2023. BAMTech will pay Riot at least $50 million per-year, and split advertising revenue.\n\nOn February 21, 2017, Michael Paull was named BAMTech's CEO. On August 8, 2017, Disney announced that it would increase its ownership in the company to a 75% controlling stake for $1.58 billion. Disney also reiterated its plan to launch an ESPN-branded over-the-top service in early-2018 followed by a Disney-branded direct-to-consumer streaming service in 2019. BAMTech Media was placed under Kevin A. Mayer, Disney's senior executive vice president and chief strategy officer.\n\nThe company formally launched a website and corporate identity in September 2017. On November 7, 2017, BAMTech acquired the Manchester-based software firm Cake Solutions. As part of the corporate re-structuring, former director of Cake Solutions, Ian Brookes departed the company.\n\nIn Disney's March 14, 2018 segment reorganization in anticipation of integrating Fox assets, BAMTech was transferred to Walt Disney Direct-to-Consumer and International. Bamtech named Kevin Swint as senior vice-president and general manager of the Disney forthcoming streaming service in January 2018 with Agnes Chu as programming executive.\n\nIn October 2018, it was reported that the company had been internally renamed Disney Streaming Services. On October 31, 2018, ESPN International executive vice-president and managing director Russell Wolff was named executive vice-president and general manager of ESPN+.\n"}
{"id": "54077442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54077442", "title": "Berkeley school of political theory", "text": "Berkeley school of political theory\n\nThe Berkeley school of political theory is a school of thought in political theory associated originally with the work of faculty at the University of California, Berkeley, some of whom formulated and popularized its ideas. The school of thought was founded by Sheldon Wolin, Hanna Pitkin, Michael Rogin, John Schaar, and Norman Jacobson, among others, and has been carried on by theorists including Wilson Carey McWilliams and J. Peter Euben.\n\nThe Berkeley school has been characterized as returning political theory back in the direction of politics and political action, and away from efforts to center \"scientific\" models such as economics, psychology, sociology, and the natural sciences, specifically behavioralism and evolutionary psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2056688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2056688", "title": "Chanak Crisis", "text": "Chanak Crisis\n\nThe Chanak Crisis (), also called the Chanak Affair and the Chanak Incident, was a war scare in September 1922 between the United Kingdom and Turkey (the Grand National Assembly). \"Chanak\" refers to Çanakkale, a city at the Anatolian side of the Dardanelles Strait. The crisis was caused by Turkish efforts to push the Greek armies out of Turkey and restore Turkish rule in the Allied occupied territories of Turkey, primarily in Constantinople (now Istanbul) and Eastern Thrace. Turkish troops marched against British and French positions in the Dardanelles neutral zone. For a time, war between Britain and Turkey seemed possible, but Canada refused to agree as did France and Italy. British public opinion did not want a war. The British military did not either, and the top general on the scene, Sir Charles Harington, refused to relay an ultimatum to the Turks because he counted on a negotiated settlement. The Conservatives in Britain's coalition government refused to follow Liberal Prime Minister David Lloyd George, who with Winston Churchill was calling for war.\n\nThe crisis quickly ended when Turkey, having overwhelmed the Greeks, agreed to a negotiated settlement that gave it the territory it wanted. Lloyd George's mishandling of the crisis contributed to his downfall via the Carlton Club meeting. The crisis raised the issue of who decided on war for the British Empire, and was Canada's first assertion of diplomatic independence from London. Historian Robert Blake says the Chanak incident led to Arthur Balfour's definition of Britain and the dominions as \"autonomous Communities within the British Empire, equal in status, in no way subordinate one to another in any aspect of the domestic or internal affairs, though united by a common allegiance to the Crown, and freely associated as members of the British Commonwealth of Nations.\" In 1931 the UK Parliament enacted Balfour's formula into law through the Statute of Westminster 1931.\n\nThe Turkish troops had recently defeated Greek forces and recaptured İzmir (Smyrna) on 9 September and were advancing on Constantinople in the neutral zone. In an interview published on \"Daily Mail\", 15 September 1922, leader of the Turkish national movement Mustafa Kemal Atatürk stated that: \"Our demands remain the same after our recent victory as they were before. We ask for Asia Minor, Thrace up to the river Maritsa and Constantinople... We must have our capital and I should in that case be obliged to march on Constantinople with my army, which will be an affair of only a few days. I much prefer to obtain possession by negotiation, though naturally I cannot wait indefinitely.\" \nThe British Cabinet met in the same day and decided that British forces should maintain their positions. On the following day, in the absence of Foreign Secretary Lord Curzon, certain Cabinet ministers issued a communiqué threatening Turkey with a declaration of war by Britain and the Dominions, on the grounds that Turkey had violated the Treaty of Sèvres. On 18 September, on his return to London, Curzon pointed out that this would enrage the Prime Minister of France, Raymond Poincaré, and left for Paris to attempt to smooth things over. Poincaré, however, had already ordered the withdrawal of the French detachment at Chanak but persuaded the Turks to respect the neutral zone. Curzon reached Paris on 20 September and, after several angry meetings with Poincaré, reached agreement to negotiate an armistice with the Turks.\n\nMeanwhile, the Turkish population living in Constantinople were being organised for a possible offensive against the city by the Kemalist forces. For instance, Ernest Hemingway, reporting for \"The Toronto Daily Star\" at the time as a war correspondent, wrote about a specific incident:\nIn British politics, Lloyd George, Winston Churchill, and the Conservative Lord Birkenhead were pro-Greek and wanted war; all other Conservatives of the coalition in his government were pro-Turk and rejected war. Lloyd George's position as head of the coalition became untenable. Furthermore, the British public were alarmed by the Chanak episode and the possibility of going to war again. It further undercut Lloyd George that he had not fully consulted the Dominion prime ministers.\n\nUnlike 1914, when World War I broke out, Canada in particular did not automatically consider itself active in the conflict. Instead, Prime Minister Mackenzie King insisted that the Canadian Parliament should decide on the course of action the country would follow. King was offended by the telegram he received from Churchill asking for Canada to send troops to Chanak to support Britain, and sent back a telegram, which was couched in Canadian nationalist language, declaring that Canada would not automatically support Britain if it came to war with Turkey. Given that the majority of the MPs of King's Liberal Party were opposed to going to war with Turkey together with the Progressive MPs who were supporting King's minority government, it is likely that Canada would have declared neutrality if the crisis came to war. The Chanak issue badly divided Canadian public opinion with French-Canadians and Canadian nationalists in English-Canada like professor O.D. Skelton saying Canada should not issue \"blank cheques\" to Britain like that issued in 1914 and supporting King's implicit decision for neutrality. By contrast, the Conservative leader Arthur Meighen in a speech in Toronto criticized King and declared: \"When Britain's message came, then Canada should have said, 'Ready, aye ready, we stand by you.'\" By the time the issue had been debated in the House of Commons of Canada, the threat at Chanak had passed. Nonetheless, King made his point: the Canadian Parliament would decide the role that Canada would play in external affairs and could diverge from the British government. The other dominion prime ministers and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Kingdom of Italy and the Kingdom of Romania gave no support.\n\nOn 23 September, the British cabinet decided to give East Thrace to the Turks, thus forcing Greeks to abandon it without a fight. This convinced Kemal to accept the opening of armistice talks and on 28 September he told the British that he had ordered his troops to avoid any incident at Chanak, nominating Mudanya as the venue for peace negotiations. The parties met there on 3 October and agreed to the terms of the Armistice of Mudanya on 11 October, two hours before British forces were due to attack.\n\nLloyd George's rashness resulted in the calling of a meeting of Conservative MPs at the Carlton Club on 19 October 1922, which passed a motion that the Conservative Party should fight the next general election as an independent party. This decision had dire ramifications for Lloyd George, as the Conservative Party made up the vast majority of the 1918–1922 post-war coalition. Indeed, they could have made up the majority government if it were not for the coalition.\n\nLloyd George also lost the support of the influential Curzon, who considered that the Prime Minister had been manoeuvring behind his back. Following the Carlton Club decision, the MPs voted 185 to 85 for ending the Coalition. Lloyd George resigned as Prime Minister, never to return to cabinet level politics. The Conservatives, under returned party leader Bonar Law, subsequently won the general election with an overall majority.\n\nBritish and French forces were ultimately withdrawn from the neutral zone in summer 1923, following the ratification of the Treaty of Lausanne.\n\nThe Chanak crisis fundamentally challenged the assumption that the Dominions would automatically follow Britain into war. The crisis changed the relations between the Dominions and London, paving the way for the 1931 Statue of Westminster, which explicitly declared that the Dominions had the power to declare war.\n\n"}
{"id": "14538771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14538771", "title": "Charitable immunity", "text": "Charitable immunity\n\nCharitable immunity is a legal doctrine which holds that a charitable organization is not liable under tort law. It originated in 19th-century Great Britain.\n\nThe early form of charitable immunity in England did not provide immunity from suit; it only protected segregated funds held in a recognized equitable trust for the organization.\n\nIn \"Heriot's Hospital\", plaintiff Ross brought an action against a charitable trust which had been established for a home for fatherless boys, contending that he had been excluded from the home even though he was fatherless and otherwise qualified for the charitable benefits. By the time his case was determined, Ross was too old for admission, and the question was whether he was entitled to damages from the trust funds. The House of Lords held that he was not. In the House of Lords, Lord Cottenham, \"in dictum\", pronounced that an award of damages out of a trust fund \"would not be to apply it to those objects which the author of the fund had in view, but would be to divert it to a completely different purpose\". \"Heriot's Hospital\" was not a tort claim and did not address the issue whether a charity is liable to those whom it has wrongfully injured. \"Heriot's Hospital\" repeated an earlier dictum from Lord Cottenham in \"Duncan v. Findlater\", 6 Cl. & Fin. 894 (1839), which decided, unremarkably, that highway trustees, under a public road act, were not liable for the negligence of independent contractors.\n\nA blanket waiver from suit for charities did not exist anywhere at common law until it was adopted in England in 1861. Moreover, the concept of immunity had no sooner crept into English law than it was decisively repudiated. By 1866, the dictum of \"Duncan v. Findlater\" (and by implication that of \"Heriot's Hospital\") was overruled by \"Mersey Docks Trustees v. Gibbs\", LR 1 HL 93, 11 Eng Rep 1500 (1866).\n\nBetween the 1940s and 1992, almost every state in the United States had abrogated or limited the charitable immunity doctrine. The doctrine has also been abandoned in Britain and Canada.\n\nThe doctrine has especially been relevant, or discussed, in the context of child sexual abuse and medical malpractice.\n\nUnder the charitable immunity doctrine, it was still possible to sue employees or volunteers of charitable institutions, so the doctrine's existence encouraged other legal arguments, such as the \"captain of the ship\" argument that a surgeon is responsible for everything that happens in an operating room.\n"}
{"id": "29172368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29172368", "title": "Colombian nationality law", "text": "Colombian nationality law\n\nColombian nationality is typically obtained by birth in Colombia when one of the parents is either a Colombian citizen or a Colombian legal resident, by birth abroad when at least one parent was born in Colombia, or by naturalization, as defined by Article 96 of the Constitution of Colombia and the Law 43-1993 as modified by Legislative Act 1 of 2002.\n\nColombia does not grant birthright citizenship. To obtain the Colombian citizenship at birth, one must have at least one parent a Colombian citizen or a Colombian legal resident.\n\nA child born outside Colombia who has at least one Colombian parent can be registered as a Colombian national by birth, either upon returning to Colombia (for residents) or at a consulate abroad (for non-residents).\n\nA person who has lived in Colombia as a legal permanent resident for five years may apply for naturalization with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. There are exceptions to the usual residence requirements in some cases, including:\n\nThe person is also expected to pass a test related to Colombian history, geography and constitution. A Spanish-language aptitude test is also required for people who are not native Spanish-speakers.\n\nThose who have a bachelor's degree from a Colombian university or are over 65 years old are exempt from the tests.\n\nColombian nationality law acknowledges that a Colombian by birth or by naturalization as well can also have other nationalities.\n\nColombians who acquired Colombian nationality by birth cannot be deprived of it under any circumstances, so acquiring another nationality does not in itself result in the loss of Colombian nationality. A person who renounced their Colombian nationality may recover it later.\n\nNevertheless, certain government positions are barred for those with dual citizenship. For example, career diplomats may not hold dual citizenship as per Colombian law, but an individual with dual citizenship might be appointed to a diplomatic position, but will not acquire career rights.\n\nColombia law differentiates between nationality and citizenship. Nationality is the attribute of the person in international law that describes his relationship to the State, whereas citizenship is given to those nationals (i.e. those that hold the Colombian nationality) that have certain rights and responsibilities to the State. The 98th article of the Colombian constitution establishes that Colombian citizens are those nationals that are 18 years of age or older.\n\nColombian citizens are allowed to vote on elections and exercise the public action of unconstitutionality.\n\nColombian citizens can renounce citizenship. The process of renunciation requires the citizen to appear at a Colombian embassy or consulate if the petitioner live outside of Colombia, or at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs if the petitioner reside in Colombia. To start the process to renounce the Colombian citizenship the petitioner must have another citizenship from a different country.\n"}
{"id": "1414677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1414677", "title": "Comparative politics", "text": "Comparative politics\n\nComparative politics is a field in political science, characterized by an empirical approach based on the \"comparative method\". In other words, comparative politics is the study of the domestic politics, political institutions, and conflicts of countries. It often involves comparisons among countries and through time within single countries, emphasizing key patterns of similarity and difference. Arend Lijphart argues that comparative politics does not have a \"substantive\" focus in itself, but rather a \"methodological\" one: it focuses on \"the \"how\" but does not specify the \"what\" of the analysis.\" In other words, comparative politics is not defined by the object of its study, but rather by the method it applies to study political phenomena. Peter Mair and Richard Rose advance a slightly different definition, arguing that comparative politics is defined by a combination of a \"substantive\" focus on the study of countries' political systems and a \"method\" of identifying and explaining similarities and differences between these countries using common concepts. Rose states that, on his definition: \"The focus is explicitly or implicitly upon more than one country, thus following familiar political science usage in excluding within-nation comparison. Methodologically, comparison is distinguished by its use of concepts that are applicable in more than one country.\"\n\nWhen applied to specific fields of study, comparative politics may be referred to by other names, such as for example comparative government (the comparative study of forms of government) or comparative foreign policy (comparing the foreign policies of different States in order to establish general empirical connections between the characteristics of the State and the characteristics of its foreign policy).\n\nSometimes, especially in the United States, the term \"comparative politics\" is used to refer to \"the politics of foreign countries.\" This usage of the term, however, is often considered incorrect.\n\n\"Comparative political science\" as a general term for an area of study, as opposed to a methodology of study, can be seen as redundant. The political only shows as political when either an overt or tacit comparison is being made. A study of a single political entity, whether a society, subculture or period, would show the political as simple brute reality without comparison with another society, subculture, or period.\n\nThe highest award in the discipline of Comparative Politics is the Karl Deutsch award, awarded by the International Political Science Association. So far, it has been given to Juan Linz (2003), Charles Tilly (2006), Giovanni Sartori (2009), and Alfred Stepan (2012).\n\nThe comparative method is – together with the experimental method, the statistical method and the case study approach – one of the four fundamental scientific methods which can be used to test the validity of theoretical propositions, often with the use of empirical data i.e. to establish relationships among two or more empirical variables or concepts while all other variables are held constant. In particular, the comparative method is generally used when neither the experimental nor the statistical method can be employed: on the one hand, experiments can only rarely be conducted in political science; on the other hand the statistical method implies the mathematical manipulation of quantitative data about a large number of cases, while sometimes political research must be conducted by analyzing the behavior of qualitative variables in a small number of cases. \n\nTwo major strategies are used in comparative research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31932664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31932664", "title": "Council of Ministers (Jersey)", "text": "Council of Ministers (Jersey)\n\nThe Council of Ministers is the collective institution of executive government in Jersey. The council co-ordinates policies and administration, especially policy affecting two or more ministers, prioritises executive and legislative proposals, and presents a \"Strategic Plan for Jersey\" for approval by the States of Jersey.\n\nThe council does not represent a parliamentary majority as ministers may be elected on a variety of manifestos. The executive is prevented from constituting a majority of the 51 elected members by the States of Jersey Law 2005, which places a legal cap of 22 on the number of states' members who may hold office as chief minister, minister and assistant ministers.\n\nThe first Council of Ministers was established in December 2005.\n\nThe election for Chief Minister takes place as a majority vote in the States Assembly. The chief minister-elect then nominates nine people for the position of minister. Other candidates may be nominated from among the states members and a vote is taken for each ministerial post on a majority basis by the full membership of the States of Jersey.\n\nThe Chief Minister acts as president of the council and matters may be brought for discussion by any minister.\n\nLegally ultimate responsibility for the policy decisions of a department rest solely with the minister, however in practice matters are decided by a unanimous or majority vote of the ten ministers.\n\n\nElections for ministerial posts were held on 17 and 18 November 2011. The chief minister's nominations were all contested; two of his nominations were defeated, and five ministerial posts were decided by margins of between 1 and 3 votes. The chief minister's nomination of Senator Ian Le Marquand to the Treasury was defeated, and so the chief minister amended his nomination for Home Affairs to retain Senator Le Marquand on the council, by withdrawing his nomination of Senator Lyndon Farnham. The chief minister's nomination of Connétable John Refault to Transport and Technical Services was defeated, with Deputy Kevin Lewis, a former Assistant Minister for Transport and Technical Services, being elected.\n\n\nElections for ministerial posts were held on 11 and 12 December 2008. The nominees of the Chief Minister were successful with the exception of Senator Routier, proposed successively for Health and Social Services and Education, Sport and Culture. Three ministers subsequently resigned as ministers (but remained as States members) in the face of criticisms of their personal conduct: Senator Jim Perchard (2009), Deputy Terry Le Main (2010) and Deputy Sean Power (2011), triggering further elections. One minister, Senator Freddie Cohen, exchanged the role of Planning and Environment Minister for that of \"foreign minister\" in 2011.\n\n\nIn 2005, only one of the ten ministers nominated by the Chief Minister failed to achieve election: Senator Len Norman, whose position was filled by Deputy Guy de Faye.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3916477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3916477", "title": "Dutch nationality law", "text": "Dutch nationality law\n\nDutch nationality law is based primarily on the principle of \"jus sanguinis\" and is governed by the Kingdom Act on the Netherlands nationality (), which was signed by the monarch on 19 December 1984 and officially publicised on 27 December 1984. Thus citizenship is conferred primarily by birth to a Dutch parent, irrespective of place of birth. Children born in the Netherlands to two foreign parents do not acquire Dutch citizenship at birth, unless special criteria are met.\n\nDespite the existence of four different countries in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, only one category of citizen is distinguished in Dutch nationality law (\"Nederlandse burgers\"). The Kingdom Act on the Netherlands nationality was significantly amended with effect from 1 April 2003. A minor revision concerning people born before 1985 to a Dutch mother went into effect on 1 January 2011.\n\nA person born on or after 1 January 1985 to a Dutch father or mother (\"afstamming\") is automatically a Dutch national at birth (\"van rechtswege\"). It is irrelevant where the child is born.\n\nA child born to an unmarried Dutch father and a non-Dutch mother must be acknowledged by the Dutch father before birth, in order for the child to be a Dutch national at birth. Before 1 April 2003, an acknowledgement could be given after birth. Since then children who were not acknowledged before birth may nonetheless acquire Dutch citizenship through the option procedure, or through obtaining proof of paternity from a court. In the last case, the child gets Dutch nationality retroactively since the child's birth. \n\nFrom 1 January 1985 the Kingdom Act on the Netherlands nationality (Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap 19 December 1984, Stb. 628) permits children of either a Dutch father or mother to receive Dutch nationality by descent. Prior to that date Dutch nationality law (Wet op het Nederlanderschap en het ingezetenenschap (commonly abbreviated as WNI, 12 December 1892, Stb. 268) did not permit children to obtain Dutch nationality through descent from a Dutch mother (through matrilineal descent) and a non-Dutch father. Netherlands nationality was only passed through patrilineal (father) descent. Only if the father was not known or acknowledged did a child born to a Dutch mother receive Dutch nationality prior to 1 January 1985.\n\nBetween 1 January 1985 and 31 December 1987 children born after 1 January 1964 but before 1 January 1985 of a Dutch mother and non-Dutch father and who had never been married could use the ‘option procedure’ to acquire Dutch nationality. This possibility was not widely known and many in this situation missed the temporary opportunity to register themselves or their children as Dutch nationals.\n\nIn 2004, a number of these children of Dutch mothers and non-Dutch fathers (so-called \"latent Dutch\" or \"latente Nederlanders\") began to organise themselves in the hope of persuading the Dutch government that Article 27 of \"Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap\" condones the discrimination against women enshrined in the earlier Dutch Nationality Law (before its 1985 revision), and it should therefore be revoked. In 2005, several Dutch lawyers agreed to take on the case and formalised the group into “Stichting Ne(e)derlanderschap Ja!”. The legislative change was discussed by parliament in 2006, but then stalled when the government fell and the bill was withdrawn.\n\nIn December 2008, a new proposal was presented to the House of Representatives, and in January 2010 Legislative bill 31.831 (R1873) passed a majority vote amending the Kingdom Act on the Netherlands nationality to allow the so-called 'latent Dutch' to opt to receive Dutch nationality, regardless of their current age and marital status, and without requirement to renounce their original nationality. In June 2010, the Dutch Upper House approved the legislation. It was signed into law in July 2010 by Minister of Justice Mr Hirsch Ballin and H.M. the Queen, and published in the official Gazette issued by the Dutch Government (\"Staatsblad van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden\"), with effect 1 October 2010. Latent Dutch now have the opportunity to receive Dutch nationality by option. Many latent Dutch regard themselves as having been Dutch since birth. However, while latent Dutch are by definition descended from a Dutch mother, nationality granted through the option procedure is not retroactive to the date of their birth. Under the law, these individuals are not considered to be Dutch since birth (\"van rechtswege\"), but rather are legally ‘Dutch by option’ from the date that the requirements of the ‘option procedure’ are fulfilled.\n\nThe option procedure is a simpler and quicker way of acquiring Dutch citizenship compared to naturalisation. In effect, it is a form of simplified naturalisation.\n\nIn order to be eligible for the option procedure, it is necessary to hold a Dutch residence permit and to be any of the following:\n\n\nException: Legislation 31.813 (R1873), \"inter alia\", amends the Kingdom of the Netherlands' nationality law to allow latent Dutch to opt to receive Dutch nationality, effective 1 October 2010. The conditions of eligibility through the 'option procedure' differ somewhat from those described above. Eligibility criteria for Dutch nationality as a latent Dutch person are that the:\nAll five conditions must be met. If one or more of the conditions are not met the person is ineligible for nationality by this particular means under the recent changes to the option procedure affecting the latent Dutch. Residency in the Netherlands is \"not\" an eligibility requirement for latent Dutch applicants.\n\nApplicants for Dutch citizenship through the option procedure are not required by Dutch law to renounce any foreign citizenship they might hold. However, the laws pertaining to their other citizenship may disagree.\n\n\"Jus soli\" is the right of anyone born in the territory of a state to nationality or citizenship of that state. Dutch law has no provisions for the automatic granting of the Dutch nationality based on the actual place of birth, however a child is Dutch if it was born to at least one parent, having his or her main residence in the Netherlands, Curaçao, Sint Maarten or Aruba (or the Netherlands Antilles) at the times of the births of that parent and of the child, provided the child itself has at birth its main residence in one of those countries too. \n\nA child found on Dutch territory (including ships and airplanes with Dutch nationality), whose parents are unknown, is considered Dutch by birth if within five years since being found it does not become apparent that the child had another citizenship by birth.\n\nAn application for Dutch citizenship by naturalisation must meet all the conditions below:\n\n\nSince 1 March 2009, anyone who requests naturalization must take an oath promising adherence to the values of the Dutch state: \"I swear (declare) that I respect the constitutional order of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, its freedoms and its rights, and I swear (promise) to faithfully fulfil the obligations due to my nationality. So help me God Almighty\", or: \"This is what I promise and declare.\" According to Art. 23.3. of the Kingdom Act on the Netherlands Nationality, some categories of people are excepted from declaring their allegiance, through a general administrative measure. According to Art. 60a.6. of the Decree regarding the Obtention and Loss of the Netherlands Nationality, persons with a physical or psychical handicap who are unable to state their allegiance are exempted from doing so.\n\nThe five-year residence requirement may not apply where the applicant falls into any of the following categories:\n\n\nAn applicant for naturalisation does not have to give up his current nationality in the following cases:\n\n\nThese exemptions do not hold for Austrian, Danish and Norwegian nationals, since these countries (together with the Netherlands) are parties to the Convention on the Reduction of Cases of Multiple Nationality and on Military Obligations in Cases of Multiple Nationality (see Chapter I, art. 1, paragraph 1).\n\nThis was also the case for Belgian nationals until 28 April 2008, since Belgium denounced Chapter 1 of this treaty on such date. In a similar way, this was also the case for Luxembourgeois nationals until 10 July 2009.\n\nChildren aged under eighteen may be added to a parent's application for Dutch citizenship. Those aged sixteen and seventeen will only be naturalised if they give their active consent while those aged twelve through fifteen inclusive are given a chance to object.\n\nFormer Dutch nationals who hold permanent resident permits and have resided in the Kingdom of the Netherlands (Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao, or Sint Maarten) for at least one year may regain Dutch citizenship through the option procedure.\n\nWhere the person is not resident in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the person must have lost Dutch citizenship \"after\" reaching the age of majority and through the \"acquisition\" of another citizenship. In addition one of the following conditions must be satisfied:\n\n\nThese criteria are similar to the criteria for exemption from loss of Dutch citizenship in place since 1 April 2003. If a former Dutch national lost Dutch nationality prior to 31 March 2003 under one of the three conditions above, that individual may submit an application to regain Dutch nationality through option. The application opting for Dutch nationality may be submitted up to 31 March 2013 (i.e., ten years from the 2003 change in the law).\n\nDutch nationals may lose their citizenship through long residence outside the Netherlands while having more than one nationality, or acquisition of a foreign nationality. In addition, in some cases it is possible to be deprived of Dutch citizenship.\n\nThe Dutch law has contained for many years provisions that removed Dutch citizenship from certain Dutch persons who held another nationality at birth and remained resident outside the Netherlands in adulthood.\n\nBefore 1 January 1985, Dutch nationals lost their nationality in cases where they were born outside the Kingdom of the Netherlands, lived for an uninterrupted period of ten years outside the Kingdom after reaching the age of majority (then twenty-one) and did not submit notification that they wished to retain their Dutch nationality before the period of ten years.\n\nThese provisions affected Dutch nationals born abroad before 1 January 1954.\n\nUnder the 1985 legislation, Dutch nationals born outside the Netherlands who also held the nationality of the country of their birth lost Dutch citizenship if they lived in the country of their birth for ten years after they turn 18 (and were still citizens or nationals of their country of birth).\n\nThose who were issued a Dutch passport or proof of Dutch citizenship on or after 1 January 1990 are deemed never to have lost Dutch citizenship. This exemption was put in place on 1 February 2001.\n\nFormer nationals who were not issued a Dutch passport or proof of Dutch citizenship in 1990 or later were given a limited period of time to acquire Dutch citizenship by option, until 31 March 2005.\n\nSince 1 April 2003, following an amendment to the Netherlands Nationality Act of 1985, Dutch nationals with dual nationality will lose their Dutch citizenship if they hold a foreign citizenship and reside outside the Kingdom of the Netherlands or the European Union for ten years.\n\nIn the case of Dutch nationals who possessed dual nationality on 1 April 2003 and who were then resident outside the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the European Union, the ten years started on 1 April 2003.\n\nThe amendment lets Dutch nationals who hold foreign citizenship and reside abroad keep their citizenship by either having a principal residence in the Netherlands or another EU member state for at least a year or applying for a Dutch passport or proof of Dutch nationality before 1 April 2013, the end of the ten years. A new period of ten years starts on the day that the person is issued with a passport or proof of Dutch nationality.\n\nThe consequences of the UK’s departure from the EU (Brexit) will impact Dutch nationals in the UK and British nationals in the Netherlands.. This prospective loss of their original or dual nationality has encourage many to support the European Citizen’s Initiative for Permanent European Union Citizenship. \n\nA person over the age of majority who voluntarily acquired another citizenship before 1 April 2003 automatically lost Dutch citizenship.\n\nFrom 1 April 2003, loss of Dutch citizenship upon naturalisation in another country is still automatic unless at least one of the following exemptions applies:\n\n\nIf a person already lost Dutch nationality under these three exceptions prior to 1 April 2003, the final date to regain Dutch nationality under these three exceptions was 1 April 2013. Since then, it is no longer possible to reacquire Dutch nationality by option under these three exceptions if the person had already lost Dutch nationality prior to 1 April 2003. The only way to regain Dutch nationality is by naturalisation. These exemptions do not apply in the case of acquisition of Austrian, Norwegian or Danish citizenship. Before 28 April 2008, those exemptions did not apply to obtaining Belgian nationality. Before 10 July 2009, these exemptions did not apply to getting the Luxembourgeois nationality. This is due to the provisions of the \"Convention on the Reduction of Cases of Multiple Nationality\", to which the Netherlands became party in 1985. \n\nOther exceptions also exist such as the one in which minors who naturalise independently from their parents will not lose their Dutch citizenship. That was particularly helpful prior to 1985, when the age of majority was 21.\n\nThe exemptions lead to internal problems in the case of acquisition of Japanese or South Korean citizenship since neither Japan nor South Korea allows its nationals to hold foreign citizenships in their adult years. They are strictly Japanese or South Korean internal affairs and have to be solved by Japanese or South Korean citizens themselves, according to the laws of their own country. They are not problems of the Dutch state, and all that the Dutch laws say in this respect is that such Dutch nationals with dual nationality are allowed to renounce to their Dutch nationality.\n\nDutch nationals are not allowed to renounce their nationality if they become stateless so this renunciation has to occur while they have dual nationality, which is illegal in Japan and South Korea. Therefore, acquiring Japanese or South Korean nationality cannot be done by exempted Dutch nationals without breaking the laws of such countries. Each sovereign state decides for itself who are its citizens, and other states are not allowed to intercede on behalf of individuals in such internal affairs.\n\nDutch citizenship by \"naturalization\" may be withdrawn if procured by fraud or if the naturalized Dutch national does not renounce a foreign citizenship as per the requirements for naturalization (if one did not have the right to be exempted from such requirement or if one did not claim one's right to such exemption before signing a paper wherein one agrees to renounce the original nationality). A similar requirement exists for citizens of Japan and South Korea (see above).\n\nDutch citizenship may also be revoked in the case of service in a foreign army at war with the Netherlands.\n\nThe possibility to reapply for lost Dutch nationality under those three exceptions expired on 31 March 2013.\n\nOn 29 August 2014, Dutch ministers, in their effort to discourage young Dutch Muslims from joining terrorist organisations involved in a war with the Netherlands or one of its allies, planned to increase the options of withdrawing Dutch citizenship from dual nationals. This will be extended to the people who train in terrorist camps or work in them as instructors.\n\nIn addition, passports of people suspected of making plans to travel to a conflict zone and join a terrorist organisation like ISIL may be declared invalid.\n\nAlthough Dutch law restricts dual citizenship, it is possible for Dutch nationals to legally hold dual citizenship in a number of circumstances, including:\n\n\nDutch nationality law is an object of enduring dispute, dissension and debate, since the electoral campaign of Pim Fortuyn turned immigration into a hot issue in Dutch politics. Since the assassination of Pim Fortuyn, anti-immigration politicians like Geert Wilders and Rita Verdonk have opposed dual citizenship.\n\nBecause the Netherlands forms part of the European Union, Dutch citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no Dutch embassy, Dutch citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. Dutch citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.\n\nBefore independence, Dutch citizenship was held by many persons in Suriname and Indonesia. In general, those acquiring citizenship of these countries at independence have lost their Dutch citizenship, but a request for determination of citizenship status can be addressed to the Dutch authorities.\n\nFigures from the Dutch government show that approximately 11,500 people were granted Dutch citizenship by naturalisation in the first six months of 2003. There were close to 20,000 applications. \n\nAccording to the country's statistics office , nearly 21,000 people were granted Dutch nationality through naturalisation in 2004 (13,000 adults and 8,000 children at the same time). This is 4,000 fewer than in 2003 and half the number in 2002.\n\nVisa requirements for Dutch citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of the Netherlands. In 2017, Dutch citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 173 countries and territories, ranking the Dutch nationality 4th in the world according to the Henley visa restrictions index.\n\nThe Dutch nationality is ranked fourth in The Quality of Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Henley Passport Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers in addition to travel freedom on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, human development as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15366699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15366699", "title": "ETA's 2006 ceasefire declaration", "text": "ETA's 2006 ceasefire declaration\n\nETA's 2006 \"permanent ceasefire\" was the period spanning between 24 March and 30 December 2006 during which, following an ETA communiqué, the Spanish government, led by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero on one side, and the militant group on the other, engaged in talks as a means to agree on a formula to voluntarily disband the latter. It was terminated as a result of the 2006 Madrid Barajas International Airport bombing.\n\nAt the time of ETA's declaration, the most recent to date of its killings had been committed on 30 May 2003, whereas its last proven assassination attempt occurred on 17 February 2005. ETA had been briefly blamed for the 11 March 2004 Madrid train bombings, but it soon became clear that the attack was the work of radical Islamists. For the next two years, there had been some conjecture whether ETA was refraining from their previous level of violence out of weakness, out of a change of heart or tactics, or because the 11 March attacks had undercut support for violent political tactics.\n\nOn 22 March 2006 ETA sent a DVD message to the Basque Network Euskal Irrati-Telebista and the journals \"Gara\" and Berria with a communiqué from the organization announcing what it called a \"permanent ceasefire\" that was broadcast over Spanish TV. According to the spokeswoman for the organisation, the \"ceasefire\" would begin on Friday 24 March. In their communiqué, they stated that the French and Spanish governments should cooperate and respond positively to this new situation. On 23 March, Gara published an extended version of the communiqué. The calculated ambiguity of the term \"permanent\" (which was a novelty when compared to previous \"ceasefire\" declarations) was widely discussed by most observers, even though it was mostly regarded as a positive sign of ETA's will to quit its violent activities.\n\nMost political parties welcomed the news of a ceasefire on the part of ETA. The government (under the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) administration) displayed an optimistic and hopeful response to the announcement, although in official statements president Zapatero called for \"prudence\".\n\nPP: The People's Party (headed by Mariano Rajoy) showed pessimism with regards to this announcement and claimed that it was only a pause for ETA, probably in the same fashion as the previous truce (declared by ETA in 1998, under president Aznar's administration). Rajoy called on the government to continue \"fighting terrorism\" and reject negotiations.\n\nBasque Government: Juan José Ibarretxe called for the establishment of a negotiation table \"without exclusions\" (i.e. involving all the concerned political sectors, i.e., Batasuna, which is currently illegal).\n\nBatasuna's position evolved from a cautious optimism into increasingly serious warnings against what they considered \"a lack of resolve on the part of the Spanish government\" and what they believed was \"a will not to solve the conflict but to erode the Nationalist Left\". The harshest of such warnings was issued on 5 December 2005, when they gave a press conference denouncing \"continued repression\" (in reference to the detentions of ETA members by the police) and warning that the peace process could \"hardly continue in such conditions\". After the Barajas bombing, Batasuna remained the only political party that considered that the \"ceasefire\" was still viable. An ETA communiqué released soon after the Barajas bombings stated the terrorist group's apparent will to continue negotiations. Five months later, on 5 June 2007, ETA released a statement affirming it considered the \"ceasefire\" to be over, warning attacks would be resumed at midnight that same day.\n\nThe 2006–2007 ETA \"ceasefire\" was a period of heightened political tension in Spain. The strategic interests of the concerned political parties and the mutual recriminations between Spanish politicians of acting with hidden agendas were often at the forefront of the discussions.\n\nOn 23 September 2006 masked and armed ETA members took part in a political act in Aritxulegi (Gipuzkoa) and declared that the organization will \"keep taking up arms\" until achieving \"independence and socialism in the Basque country\". The militant claimed that \"the fight is not a thing of the past. It is the present and the future\". The statement was regarded by some as intended to put pressure on the talks with the Spanish government, which were announced on 17 September, and by some other analysts as a declaration of ETA's ultimate intentions, making clear that the organization will not disarm until every single one of their goals have been completely achieved. Spanish president José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero stressed in the Spanish Parliament that the Spanish Government would still keep its offer for talks despite the militant's statement.\n\nIn June, Spanish Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero announced that his government would begin negotiations with the ETA.\n\nOn 24 October 2006 a suspected ETA cell stole some 300 handguns, ammunition and spare parts in France.\n\nOn 4 November 2006 Gara newspaper published excerpts of ETA's bulletin \"Zutabe\" no.111, in which the organization pondered that \"if the Spanish government doesn't fulfill its compromises and there are no visible steps, the peace process will be broken\". ETA also announced that they would \"make a renewed effort towards the negotiations with the Spanish government\". ETA \"laments that in the time elapsed since the March declaration of ceasefire (…) precious time has been wasted\". They demanded from Spanish president, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero \"to give a positive answer\" to two central issues: (1) \"to the specific demand of the fulfilment of the commitments he adopted on leaving aside repression and ceasing attacks\" and (2) \"he will have to commit clearly to respect the will for an [independence] process in Euskal Herria, that is: the will of Basque citizens\".\n\nOn 14 November, the Socialist Party admitted that the peace process was fraught with problems. Batasuna’s staunch refusal to condemn terrorism did not help. Also, the hunger strike of ETA activist Iñaki de Juana Chaos led to Kale Borroka actions by some youths liked to the abertzale left. On 14 December, Batasuna’s Pernando Barrena said that the peace process was “going nowhere.” He accused the Socialist Party of making excessive demands to Batasuna.\n\nOn 30 December 2006, at 9:00 in the morning, after three confusing warning calls, ETA detonated a van bomb in a parking building at the Madrid Barajas international airport. The explosion caused the collapse of the building and killed two Ecuadorian immigrants who were napping inside their cars in the parking building. At 6:00 P.M., José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero released a statement informing that the \"peace process\" had been discontinued.\n\nIn November 2006 ETA warned the Spanish government that the so-called \"peace process\" was \"in crisis.\" The concessions sought by ETA and its political supporters (which included the relocation of ETA inmates from jails all over Spain to penitentiaries located in the Basque region and the halting of arrests and trials of ETA suspects) had not been attended.\nIt was reported that, before the attack, ETA reminded Rodríguez Zapatero about the 2004 Madrid train bombings (as a way to pressure the government with the possibility of an attack before upcoming elections), even though the source also states that ETA 'had nothing to do' with the attack itself.\n\nOn 4–5 January 2007, the Ertzaintza found a cache of 350 pounds of explosives in Atxondo (Biscay). Out of these, 220 pounds were ready for immediate use (only lacking a detonator).\n\nOn 9 January 2007, newspaper Gara published a letter on behalf of ETA, claiming responsibility for the 30 December 2006 bomb at Barajas airport in Madrid. ETA also claimed that the ceasefire was still in place despite the bombing. ETA extended their solidarity to the \"collateral damage\" (the two Ecuadorian immigrants killed by the explosion), assuring that the \"objective of this armed action was not to cause victims\" and blamed the government for the dead, in view of the alleged lack of diligence evacuating the building. They also accused the Government and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party of creating obstacles for a democratic process.\n\nDespite the fact that all political parties and analysts in Spain -including those in the Basque country- and abroad considered the \"ceasefire\" ended with the Barajas bombing (accordingly, the negotiation tables were not resumed ever since that date) it was only weeks after, on 5 June 2007, that ETA released a communiqué through the Berria newspaper's web site formally announcing the end of the \"permanent ceasefire\" by midnight. ETA also announced that it would \"act in all fronts in defence of Euskal Herria\".\n\nOn 21 June 2007, Spanish police found 130 kg (285 pounds) of explosives in a car parked in the town of Ayamonte, near the Southern Portuguese border. The cache was suspected to belong to ETA, stoking fears that attacks would be imminent after the group announced the end of the \"permanent ceasefire\" on 5 June 2007.\n\nOn 9 October 2007, ETA members placed a bomb under the car of the bodyguard of a PSE-EE (Socialist Party of the Basque Country) council member of Galdakao. The bodyguard, Juan Carlos Domingo Galíndez, was seriously injured.\n\nOn 1 December 2007, members of ETA shot dead two Spanish civil guards in Southern France. They are the first fatalities blamed on ETA in nearly a year. The two unarmed plainsclothes civil guard officers were in Capbreton, France, to meet with French police about joint operations against ETA, which traditionally uses France as a base for its attacks in Spain. The civil guards entered a cafe for their breakfast where three ETA suspects were by chance. The suspects recognized them and ambushed them on the parking, fleeing then in a car, later leaving it to commandeer a second car.\n\nAt the beginning of 2008, ETA said that it would base its calls for independence on the Kosovo status.\n\nOn 21 February 2008, two former ETA leaders, José Luis Álvarez Santacristina (previously responsible for ETA's political positions) and Kepa Pikabea (previously responsible for ETA's armed actions) both serving jail sentences at that time, released a joint note to the press stating that \"ETA did not take into account the opinion of the majority of ETA inmates at the time of breaking the most recent truce\" and that the \"armed struggle is useless and an obstacle\" for Basque nationalism. Days before the note was released, they had both been expelled from the ETA inmates collective.\n\n"}
{"id": "40567288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40567288", "title": "European Convention on Information on Foreign Law", "text": "European Convention on Information on Foreign Law\n\nThe European Convention on Information on Foreign Law is a 1968 Council of Europe treaty whereby states agree to procedures for the mandatory provision of information when a state requests information on the legal system of another state.\n\nStates that ratify the Convention appoint a single body to receive requests from other state parties regarding information on the \"law and procedure in civil and commercial fields as well as on their judicial organisation\". When a request for such information is received from a judicial authority in another state party, the Convention makes it mandatory of the state to provide information in response to the request. States may by individual agreement or declaration expand the categories of information that must be provided.\n\nThe Convention was concluded in London on 7 June 1968 and entered into force 17 December 1969. As of 2014, 42 of the 47 member states of the Council of Europe have ratified the Convention; it has also been ratified by Belarus, Costa Rica, Mexico, and Morocco. The five Council of Europe states that have not ratified the Convention are Andorra, Armenia, Ireland, Monaco, and San Marino.\n\nOn 15 March 1978 the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Information on Foreign Law was concluded in Strasbourg. The Additional Protocol expands the categories of information that must be provided to encompass \"substantive and procedural law and judicial organisation in the criminal field, including prosecuting authorities, as well as on the law concerning the enforcement of penal measures\".\n\nThe Additional Protocol entered into force on 31 August 1979. As of 2013, it has been ratified by 38 Council of Europe states plus Belarus, Mexico, and Morocco.\n\n"}
{"id": "21605719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21605719", "title": "Flammability diagram", "text": "Flammability diagram\n\nFlammability diagrams show the control of flammability in mixtures of fuel, oxygen and an inert gas, typically nitrogen. Mixtures of the three gasses are usually depicted in a triangular diagram, known as a ternary plot. Such diagrams are available in the speciality literature. The same information can be depicted in a normal orthogonal diagram, showing only two substances, implicitly using the feature that the sum of all three components is 100 percent. The diagrams below only concerns one fuel; the diagrams can be generalized to mixtures of fuels.\n\nTriangular diagrams are not commonplace. The easiest way to understand them is to briefly go through three basic steps in their construction. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "57738699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57738699", "title": "Freedom of religion in Australia", "text": "Freedom of religion in Australia\n\nFreedom of religion in Australia is allowed in practice and protected to varying degrees through the constitution and legislation at the Federal, State and Territory level. Australia is a secular country with legislated separation of church and state and with no state religion. The nation has over 13.5 million people who identify as religious and 7.1 million who identify as irreligious.\n\nRelevant legislation protecting religious freedoms include sections of the Constitution of Australia, Federal anti-discrimination laws and State/Territory-based human rights acts and anti-discrimination laws. As these freedoms are not protected in a single piece of legislation, but rather appear as sections, clauses and exemptions in other acts or laws, legal religious freedom protections are often a source of great debate and difficult to discern in Australia.\n\nThe Constitution of Australia prohibits the Commonwealth from establishing laws which create, force or prohibit any religion. It also restricts the Commonwealth from using religion as a qualifier or test in order to hold public office. Section 116 of \"Chapter V. The States\" in the Australian Constitution reads: \"The Commonwealth shall not make any law for establishing any religion, or for imposing any religious observance, or for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion, and no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust under the Commonwealth.\"The section is based on the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. The article does not prohibit the States of Australia from implementing such laws, meaning legislation at the state level could provide for restriction or enforcement of religion.\n\nTwo referendums were held on whether to restrict the ability of states to legislate laws that may impede religious freedoms: the Australian Post-War Reconstruction and Democratic Rights referendum, 1944 and Australian referendum, 1988. Both failed to achieve a majority of support amongst the states and therefore did not pass into law. In theory, Australian State and Territory Governments can therefore pass laws impeding religious freedoms.\n\nSome states and territories have implemented a bill or charter of rights which include freedom and protection for religion, such as \"Section 14: Freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief\" in:\n\n\nThese legislated acts are based on the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which Australia was a signatory in 1966 despite no direct legislation to permit these freedoms. These acts do not prevent the passing of laws that impede any rights mentioned (including religious freedoms), but they do create a process by which all legislation must be scrutinised for human rights implications, and must be accompanied by a statement of compatibility with human rights before they can be passed by the relevant Parliament. In cases where the legislation is not compatible, it may still be passed despite contradicting these human rights acts.\n\nAnti-discrimination laws addressing unfair treatment on the basis of a range of attributes, including religion, also apply at the state and federal level. These laws contribute to religious freedoms by allowing Australians to practice religion without fear of consequence from the executive, organisations or individuals. This is achieved by prohibiting detrimental treatment as a result of an individual's religious appearance, beliefs or observances. Some argue these laws are inconsistent at the state level and may be limited at the federal level.\n\nThe \"Australian Human Rights Commission Act 1986\" defines discrimination as:\"(a) any distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin that has the effect of nullifying or impairing equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation;\" \n\nState and Territory legislation prohibits unfavourable treatment on the basis of an individual's personal characteristics, but to varying degrees and with varying detail.\n\nPersonal characteristics includes religious beliefs or activities in anti-discrimination legislation for the majority of states, and as such these laws may be seen to support religious freedom by prohibiting unfair treatment using religion as a basis. Further, anti-discrimination acts States where religious beliefs and activities are protected include:\n\n\nTwo other state acts apply narrower protection to 'religious appearance or dress' (\"Equal Opportunity Act 1984\", South Australia) and 'Ethno-religious or national origin' (\"Anti-Discrimination Act 1977\", New South Wales). It has been suggested that both states update their laws in order to align to the rest of the States and Territories.\n\nGeneral religious exception or exemption clauses exist within the various federal and state human rights acts with the aim to ensuring religious activities or observances are not impacted or inhibited by the protections provided by each act. These exemptions therefore protect freedom of religion by permitting what would otherwise be considered discrimination if it is in the context of \"an act or practice of a body established for religious purposes that conforms to the doctrines, tenets or beliefs of that religion or is necessary to avoid injury to the religious sensitivities of adherents of that religion.\"\n\nIn the case of the \"Australian Human Rights Commission Act 1986\", for example, an exemption is provided:\"Discrimination ... does not include any distinction, exclusion or preference:\" \"(d) in connection with employment as a member of the staff of an institution that is conducted in accordance with the doctrines, tenets, beliefs or teachings of a particular religion or creed, being a distinction, exclusion or preference made in good faith in order to avoid injury to the religious susceptibilities of adherents of that religion or that creed.\"Varying groups have argued that existing religious exceptions and exemptions go too far and impede the rights of individuals, whilst others argue the correct balance has been struck, and yet others petition for wider-reaching religious exemption clauses.\n\nThere have been few tests involving religious freedom put before the High Court of Australia. Judgements from the Court are generally considered to interpret the primary piece of legislation relating to religious freedom, Section 116, narrowly.\n\nIn the 1983 judgment of the High Court in \"Church of the New Faith v Commissioner for Pay-Roll Tax (Vic)\", the court was primarily concerned with whether Scientology was a religion (and therefore deserved tax exemptiont status). In judgement, the Court found that Scientology was a religion and argued that the definition of religion must be flexible, but also remain sceptical of false claims. Justices Ronald Wilson and William Deane set out five \"indicia\" of a religion:(i) That the collection of ideas and practices involved a belief in the supernatural (being something that could not be perceived by the senses); (ii) That 'the ideas relate to man's nature and place in the universe and his relation to things supernatural' ; (iii) That the adherents accept certain ideas as requiring them or encouraging them to observe particular codes of conduct or specific practices having some supernatural significance; (iv) The adherents themselves form an identifiable group or groups; (v) The adherents themselves see the collection of ideas, beliefs and practices as constituting a religion.In this judgement Section 116 was interpreted more broadly than in previous cases. The justices argued that Section 116 provides fundamental guarantees to freedom of religion:The development of the law towards complete religious liberty and religious equality... would be subverted and the guarantees in s. 116 of the Constitution would lose their character as a bastion of freedom if religion were so defined as to exclude from its ambit minority religions out of the main streams of religious thought.\n\nIn the 1941 the Commonwealth Government declared Jehovah's Witnesses to be a risk to national security, indicating they were believed to be \"prejudicial to the defence of the Commonwealth\" and the \"efficient prosecution of the war\" due to their following ideals of another Kingdom. Police occupied premises of the religious group, prompting a lawsuit heard by the High Court in which Jehovah's Witnesses argued their rights granted under Section 116 of the Constitution were infringed.\n\nThe court held that the \"National Security (Subversive Organisations) Regulations\" 1940, under which the Government had taken action, did not infringe against Section 116, but that the government had exceeded their \"defence power\" in section 51(vi) of the Constitution. Jehovah's Witnesses have since continued to practice in Australia unabated.\n\nThe absence of a Federal Bill of Rights (or Human Rights Act) which provide a guarantee of religious and other freedoms in almost all other western democracies, has been noted as a primary failure to solidify the current \"de facto\" and \"de jure\" rights to freedom of religion in Australia. The Australian Human Rights Commission has criticised the lack of protections for religious freedom alongside other \"de facto\" freedoms and has recommended the introduction of a Bill of Rights to formally protect the rights of people.\n\nOthers have highlighted that religion and religious freedoms are already well-protected, including with exemptions to anti-discrimination legislation. Frequently highlighted examples include religious schools having rights not extended to other institutions, including the ability to fire teachers who do not align with the institution's religious beliefs for any reason. This occurred in the case of the Perth South Coast Baptist College and teacher Craig Campbell who was sacked for coming out as homosexual in 2017.\n\nFollowing the passage of same-sex marriage legislation in Australia in 2017, a federal review was commissioned by the Turnbull Government to examine the suitability of current religious freedom protections, specifically within the context of the new Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious Freedoms) Act 2017. The Religious Freedom Review was chaired by Philip Ruddock, the former Attorney-General for Australia at the time same-sex marriage was banned by the Howard Government in 2004, and had no associated terms of reference.\n\nThe review panel was composed of Ruddock alongside Jesuit priest Frank Brennan, former judge Annabelle Bennett, Human Rights Commission president Ros Croucher and constitutional lawyer Nicholas Aroney. The expert review panel first met on 10 January 2018, and on 18 May the final review was handed to the Turnbull Government. The Government has declined to release the review in full pending cabinet discussion on its recommendations.\n\nThe Ruddock review has been interpreted as a way to allow the speedy passage of Dean Smith's marriage bill and to postpone discussions of religious freedom. Proponents of the Ruddock Review argue it is necessary to ensure that religious freedoms are upheld in the wake of religious objection to same-sex marriage, whilst opponents highlight that further protections for religion are not necessary and will occur at the expense of an individual's right to be free from discrimination (particularly in the case of same-sex marriages). Groups such as the Victorian Aids Council and Australian Human Rights Commission have argued that a comprehensive Bill of Rights -rather than an exclusive religious freedoms law- should be implemented as this would also give full effect to Australia's obligations and commitments under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights by enshrining all fundamental rights.\n\nTurnbull's government indicated it would not release the report received in May 2018 until it had been considered in full by the government. Following the deposition of Malcolm Turnbull as Prime Minister, his replacement Scott Morrison indicated his government would not release the report or form a full response to it before the end of 2018. This drew criticism from Michael Kirby and Kerryn Phelps given the timing of the Wentworth by-election, as voters would not have an understanding of any changes to religious law potentially instituted by Australia's first Pentecostal Prime Minister. \n\nDespite a senate motion ordering its release ahead of the by-election, the government refused to comply, claiming that a release would \"harm the public interest\" and interfere in cabinet consideration. The Prime Minister Scott Morrison suggested in an ABC Radio interview that the Ruddock review had recommended that people of different religions have the same protections as other attributes such as gender and race.\n\nOn 9 October 2018, extracts of the review were leaked to Fairfax Media, which reported that schools affiliated with a religion \"would be guaranteed the right to turn away gay students and teachers under changes to federal anti-discrimination laws\" recommended by the review. The Prime Minister initially defended this, but stated that the media coverage of the leaked report was \"confused\". Religious schools have held the right to discriminate against teachers and students on the basis of their gender or sexual orientation since 2013, however the Ruddock report recommended that schools additionally be required to hold a publicly-available policy and put the best interests of the child first. \n\nFollowing further media coverage and public pressure, the Labor opposition announced their support would be lent to the government should it seek to repeal the discrimination law exemptions already in existence which allow religious schools to ban students based on their sexuality. The Morrison Government subsequently agreed to introduce a bill to parliament with that aim. The Australian Greens and Labor opposition have further committed to revoking discrimination exemptions that also allow discrimination against teachers based on their sexual orientation, however the government has so far not indicated its position.\n\nThe full recommendations of the review were subsequently leaked to Fairfax and reported on 12 October 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "31046798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31046798", "title": "Hikmat Abu Zayd", "text": "Hikmat Abu Zayd\n\nHikmat Abu Zayd (; pronounced Hekmat Abu Zeid in Egyptian Arabic; 1922 or 1923 – 30 July 2011) was an Egyptian politician and academic. She became the first female cabinet minister in Egypt in 1962. Her tenure as minister of social affairs set a precedent. Afterwards, it became common for women to head that ministry. An avowed advocate of Nasserism, Abu Zayd has had a major impact on Egyptian law and policy in the areas of social affairs and insurance.\n\nBorn in the village of Shaykh Daud, located near the city of al-Qusiyya in Asyut Governorate, Abu Zayd grew up in a nationalist household. Her father's job at the Egyptian State Railways meant that he was assigned to many stations and was constantly on the move. Although her mother was illiterate, Abu Zayd was encouraged to read and was given access to her father's large library.\n\nAbu Zayd received an advanced education. After completing her secondary education at the Helwan Girls School, she obtained a licence in history from Cairo University (then named Fuad I University) in 1940. She progressed further in her academic studies by receiving a teaching certificate in 1941, a Master of Arts in education in 1950 from the University of St Andrews, and finally a doctorate in educational psychology from the University of London in 1957. She taught in the Women's College of Ain Shams University from 1955 to 1964, before being promoted to the rank of professor at Cairo University in 1965.\n\nIn 1962, Abu Zayd sat on the preparatory committee for the National Congress of Popular Forces. During her membership of the committee, she expressed her disagreement with President Gamal Abdel Nasser over some sections in the Charter of National Action. Impressed, Nasser decided to appoint her as a minister. On 29 September 1962, Abu Zayd was named minister of social affairs in Ali Sabri's first government. She retained her role when the cabinet was reshuffled in March 1964, and served until 1965.\n\nAbu Zayd was part of a new female leadership that shared the same lower middle class background of Nasser and his fellow Free Officers. Her appointment by Nasser was made in the context of his new socialist program, which put emphasis on broadening access to education and employment for all people, regardless of gender or social class. The 1950s and especially the 1960s were a time of increased female emancipation in Egypt. Polygyny was on the decline, and women were increasingly holding key posts in government, industry and academia. The country's first two female parliamentarians, Rawya Ateya and Amina Shukri, were elected in 1957. Karimah al-Sa'id became the deputy minister of education in the 1960s. Such high-level appointments of a few well-qualified women were showcased by the government, while the majority of Egyptian women remained stuck in the lower echelons of society.\n\nNasser's appointment of Abu Zayd was a politically significant move. Including a woman in the cabinet was a way for him to co-opt female-run charitable organizations into the Arab Socialist Union (ASU), the country's newly formed sole political party. Many of these associations were headed by women from prominent families and were protective of their independence, which Nasser found objectionable. His regime targeted women's organizations in the early 1960s and moved to take over most of their functions as state responsibilities, thereby depriving the associations of their momentum and autonomy. Abu Zayd implemented these policies, which were aimed at benefiting female workers and peasants. The Ministry of Social Affairs which she headed was increasingly specializing in women's issues. In 1963, it organized a general and wide-ranging women's conference to discuss, among other things, ways to increase female economic productivity, working women's leading role in spreading family planning, as well as the rise of family income through the employment of female members. Abu Zayd was named to preside over the conference, thereby cementing her status as leader of the women's movement in Egypt. She became coordinator for women's activities within the Arab Socialist Union in 1963, at a time when the party had nearly 250,000 female members.\n\nDuring her time in office, Abu Zayd worked on several different social issues. She strongly supported a law that prohibited Islamic oral repudiation and made it mandatory for a husband to go to court to be able to divorce his wife. In order to combat mendicity, she imposed prison terms on recidivist beggars who returned to begging after they had received state-sponsored training in handicrafts. In addition to registering NGOs and expanding their development activities, she launched projects aimed at improving the status of rural women. One of the most sensitive tasks assigned to Abu Zayd was the relocation of thousands of Nubians, displaced by the construction of the Aswan Dam, to newly built villages. Her management of the resettlement process led to her being nicknamed the \"Merciful Heart of the Revolution\" by Nasser. Nevertheless, the Nubians' forced displacement remains controversial in Egypt to this day, with some blaming Nasser for the neglectful conditions in which the relocated Nubians have been living since then.\n\nOn a personal level, Abu Zayd faced domestic problems during her tenure as minister. Her husband was resentful of her responsibility-laden role and of the amount of time she spent outside the house. Their previously modest lifestyle changed considerably as she hired a 12-year-old houseboy and was provided a chauffeur-driven car by the government.\n\nFollowing Nasser's death in 1970 and Anwar Sadat's ascension to the presidency, Abu Zayd's career progression was blocked. She moved to Libya with her husband in 1974. Her Nasserist convictions were in line with the anti-colonialism, anti-Zionism and pan-Arabism of Libya's leader Muammar Gaddafi. Abu Zayd spent nearly two decades in Libya, during which time she taught political science at Al Fateh University in Tripoli. She also penned articles and made speeches denouncing the Egyptian government.\n\nAbu Zayd began criticizing President Sadat in the mid-1970s. She became a leader of the Egyptian National Front, which was set up in Damascus in 1980 by General Saad El Shazly. The organization called for the overthrow of Sadat's government. Due to her opposition to Sadat's peace overture to Israel, Abu Zayd was accused of high treason, terrorism and spying, and was consequently deprived of her Egyptian nationality. This turned her into a stateless political refugee. A long legal battle ensued, which was finally resolved in late 1991 when a judge ruled that Abu Zayd and her husband were entitled to their Egyptian passports. She was also acquitted of the charges of high treason and terrorism.\n\nAfter having recovered their nationality, Abu Zayd and her husband came back to Egypt in March 1992. She was treated as a VIP upon her return, and rushed to visit Nasser's mausoleum. During the 1990s, she opposed the Gulf War, the Madrid Peace Conference, as well as Israeli and American imperialism. She wrote articles for \"al-Osboa\" newspaper in 1998 dealing with the issues of Western imperialism and Arab unity. In late 2010, she was hospitalized at the Anglo-American Hospital in Cairo to receive treatment for her bone fractures. Farkhonda Hassan visited her there on behalf of then First Lady Suzanne Mubarak. During her stay at the hospital, Abu Zayd granted an interview to \"Almasry Alyoum\" newspaper in which she defended Nasser's legacy and lamented the loss of tolerance in Egypt.\nAbu Zayd died in Cairo on 30 July 2011.\n\nAbu Zayd received the Lenin Peace Prize in December 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17331905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17331905", "title": "IRD asset", "text": "IRD asset\n\nThe income in respect of a decedent (IRD) asset is part of inheritance which consists of taxable income to which the deceased person was entitled to, but failed to receive before their death. A typical case is the last paycheck, which may be left not received.\n\nMost of inherited property is not included in an heir’s taxable income, but IRD assets do.\n\nWhile the tax basis of most of a decedent's assets are \"stepped up\" for income tax purposes, IRD assets are not eligible for a \"step-up\" in basis, and hence may lead to double taxation, and an income tax and estate tax.\n\n\n The following are considered IRD Income:\n\n• Uncollected salaries, wages, bonuses, commissions, vacation pay, and sick pay.\n\n• Certain deferred compensation and stock option plans.\n\n• Qualified pension plans, profit sharing plans, SEP, Keogh, and IRA except nondeductible contributions.\n\n• Accounts receivable of a cash basis sole proprietor.\n\n• Interest and dividends accrued but unpaid at death of cash basis decedent.\n\n• Rents and royalties accrued before death of cash basis taxpayer.\n\n• Gain from the sale of property if the sale is deemed to occur before death, but proceeds are not collected until after death.\n\n• Difference between the face amount and the decedent’s basis in an installment sales obligation.\n\n• Interest accrued through the date of death on Series EE bonds, unless (1) decedent elected to report interest annually, or (2) the interest was reported on the decedent’s final Form 1040.\n\n• Annuity payments in excess of decedent's investment in the contract\n"}
{"id": "27670236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27670236", "title": "Indiana Health Law Review", "text": "Indiana Health Law Review\n\nThe Indiana Health Law Review is a biannual student-edited law review at Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law. Its primary focus is health law and related topics including bioethics, medical malpractice issues, managed care, competition law, health care organizations, medical-legal research, legal medicine, food and drug issues, and other current health-related legal topics.\n"}
{"id": "3654568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3654568", "title": "Interval Research Corporation", "text": "Interval Research Corporation\n\nInterval Research Corporation was founded in 1992 by Paul Allen and David Liddle. It was a Palo Alto laboratory and technology incubator focusing on consumer product applications and services with a focus on the Internet.\n\nA 1997 version of the company's web page described itself as \"a research setting seeking to define the issues, map out the concepts and create the technology that will be important in the future... [pursuing] basic innovations in a number of early-stage technologies and [seeking] to foster industries around them – sparking opportunity for entrepreneurs and highlighting a new approach to research.\".\n\nA 1999 \"Wired\" magazine article based on a memo from Paul Allen described the company as under fire from Allen to produce \"less R and more D.\" Interval Research Corporation officially closed its doors in April 2000, while a small group of former employees were kept on to form Interval Media to continue a few specific projects. Interval Media was closed in June, 2006. \n\nDuring its brief existence, Interval employed many well-known computer technology pioneers and experts, including:\n\n\nInterval Research was issued approximately 130 US patents. Four of its patents, now owned by Allen's Interval Licensing LLC, are the subject of a patent infringement lawsuit Interval Licensing filed in August 2010 against AOL, Apple, eBay, Facebook, Google, Netflix, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples, Yahoo!, and YouTube (but not Microsoft):\n\n\nThe lawsuit also points out that Interval Research was credited by Google in 1998 as an \"outside collaborator\" and one of the companies that funded research by Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page that resulted in Google. On Mar. 3, 2011, Article One Partners announced that one of the patents held by Interval Licensing would be posted to their online community to utilize Public participation in patent examination. The patent in question was U.S. Patent No. 6,263,507, defined as \"Browser for Use in Navigating a Body of Information, With Particular Application to Browsing Information Represented By Audiovisual Data.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5560608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5560608", "title": "Jural rights", "text": "Jural rights\n\nJural rights is a doctrine of Kentucky law that prevents the legislature (and presumably the judiciary as well) from eliminating common law causes of action that existed at the time the current Kentucky Constitution was instituted.\n\nThe doctrine of jural rights is based on a concerted reading of the following sections of the Kentucky Constitution:\n\n\nThe doctrine was announced in \"Ludwig v. Johnson\", 49 S.W.2d 347 (Ky 1932). In \"Ludwig\", a statute prohibiting a non-paying passenger from suing the operator for negligence was found unconstitutional. The doctrine has been upheld several times since then, but remains the subject of criticism that it is a judicial fiction.\n\nThe doctrine was reaffirmed in \"Williams v. Wilson\", 972 S.W.2d 260 (Ky 1998), where the court invalidated a statute requiring a finding of intent for punitive damages to be available. The court reasoned that punitive damages were available for gross negligence in 1891 (when the Constitution took effect), and that the malice requirement of the statute in question effectively banned a cause of action based on negligence.\n"}
{"id": "2394408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2394408", "title": "Littera Florentina", "text": "Littera Florentina\n\nThe parchment codex called Littera Florentina is the closest survivor to an official version of the Pandects, the digest of Roman law promulgated by Justinian I in 530–533. \n\nThe codex, of 907 leaves, is written in the Byzantine-Ravenna uncials characteristic of Constantinople, but which has recently been recognized in legal and literary texts produced in Alexandria and the Levant as well. E.A. Lowe refers to this script as \"b-r uncial\". Close scrutiny dates the manuscript between the official issuance in 533 and the issuance of 557 that included Justinian's recent enactments, the \"Novellae Constitutiones\", \"New Constitutions\", making it an all-but contemporary and all-but official source.\n\nMarginal notes suggest that the codex was in Amalfi—part of the Byzantine territory in Italy governed by the Exarchate of Ravenna in the 6th century—and that it passed to Pisa in the 12th century; thus, during the Middle Ages the codex was known as the \"Littera Pisana\", until the codex formed part of the war booty removed from Pisa to Florence after the war of 1406.\n\nThe manuscript became one of Florence's most treasured possessions. It was only shown to very important persons. Scholarly access was difficult. It took more than three centuries before a reliable edition of the \"Littera Florentina\" was finally made available. Nowadays two facsimile editions are at the disposal of scholars.\n\nThe importance of the manuscript lies in the fact that is an almost unique witness of the original Justinianian Digest. Most medieval manuscripts of the Digest have a substantially different text. Its sudden reappearance in the late eleventh or early twelfth century has been much debated by legal historians.\n\nEnrico Spagnesi, \"Le Pandette di Giustiniano: storia e fortuna della 'Littera Florentina': mostra di codici documenti,\" (exhibition catalogue) June-August 1983 (Florence: Olschki) 1983.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1580458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1580458", "title": "Meta-rights", "text": "Meta-rights\n\nIn philosophy, meta-rights are the entitlements of individuals to their rights, including the possibility to waive, transfer or sell their rights. When we talk of the rights of individuals, we do not always distinguish between rights which can be waived or sold and rights which are non-negotiable. Yet that distinction and often the distinction is made implicitly. When we say a person has a right to her house, we usually mean that she also has the meta right to sell the right. On the other hand, when we say a person has the right to his body parts, we usually assume this comes without the accompanying meta right to sell these rights. Economic efficiency usually comes with having rights which come together with the meta right to sell the right. It is arguable that we should be much more explicit about when rights come together with meta rights and when without, and the moral basis that accompany these decisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "161363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161363", "title": "National Defense Act of 1935", "text": "National Defense Act of 1935\n\nThe National Defense Act of 1935 (Commonwealth Act № 1) was passed by the Philippine National Assembly on December 21, 1935. The purpose of this act was to create an independent Philippine Army, a move interrupted by the outbreak of the Second World War.\n\nThis act provided for the creation, by 1946, via an annual appropriation of 16,000,000 pesos, of the following forces:\n\n\nThe National Assembly was guided by the Office of the Military Advisor to the Commonwealth Government under the U.S. General Douglas MacArthur.\n\nThe act divided the Commonwealth of the Philippines into ten military districts, similar to the prewar corps areas within the US. Each district had a roughly equal population and each was to initially provide 1 reserve division, and ultimately three.\n\n\nThe Act provided for the drafting of Filipino men, between the ages of 21 and 50, into the 30 reserve divisions. This force was to be raised through 2 training camps, of 20,000 men each, lasting 22 weeks. The camps would be staffed by members of the regular army.\n\nThe first group of 20,000 troops was drafted on January 1, 1937, and there were 4,800 officers and 104,000 enlisted men in the reserves by 1939.\n\nFor the training of junior officers, the Act provided that a military academy be established with a Cadet Corps strength not to exceed 350 at any one time. As graduates could not be expected until they had completed 4 years of training, selected reservists were selected for training as noncommissioned officers. The best of these were then given basic office training and commissioned as 3rd Lieutenants. Officers were also created through senior-level ROTC courses in colleges and universities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42637138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42637138", "title": "National Library of Pakistan", "text": "National Library of Pakistan\n\nThe National Library of Pakistan (Urdu:), is the national and the research library located in the vicinity of the Constitutional Avenue, Islamabad, Pakistan. American author, Stuart Murray, argues that it is the oldest cultural institutional that plays a leading role in providing the resource for information— ancient and new.\n\nEstablished in 1951, it was originally housed in the secretariat of Ministry of Education (MoEd) and amalgamated with the Liaquat National Library (LNL); it was shifting in Islamabad in 1965 with MoEd's secretariat serving its purpose. In 1962, the Library received the right of transference of all copyrighted works to have two copies deposited of books, maps, illustrations and diagrams printed in Pakistan. It gained more significance in 1992 with the promulgation of copyright (amendment) act 1992. During the 1971 war, the library was thinned with the creation of Bangladesh with key material transferring to Bangladesh. After a period of slow growth in its reconstruction, the library began to enlarge its size and importance in the country. Development culminated in 1980s of an expensive and separated national library building within the vicinity of the Supreme Court's library.\n\nDesigned with Eastern architecture, the library has space for 500 readers as well as 15 research rooms, a 450-seat auditorium, and computer and microfilm services. At its opening in 1993, the library owned a collection of 130,000 volumes and 600 manuscripts. Clauses to include electronic publications, as deposit material, are also being added to the Copyright law. The national library mission to promote literacy as well serving as a dynamic cultural and educational center for the state's capital– the Islamabad.\n\nAuthorization for a national library can be traced back to 1949, although it did not gain any physical infrastructure until it was merged with the existing Liaquat Memorial Library in Karachi and renamed the Liaquat National Library. In 1967 the library began receiving copies of works published in Pakistan as part of its mandate as a copyright repository per the 1962 copyright ordinance. 1968 saw the separation of the Liaquat and National libraries, with the latter relocated to Islamabad along with Pakistan's capitol. The library was housed in a series of rented structures until construction of a permanent building was completed in 1988. The formal opening took place on 24 August 1993. Scholar Syed Jalaluddin Haider dates the library's existence later, to April 1999, when the 100,000-volume collection housed by the Department of Libraries was moved into the new building.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17559006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17559006", "title": "National Service Act 1948", "text": "National Service Act 1948\n\nThe National Service Act 1948 was an Act of Parliament which extended the British conscription of the Second World War long after the war-time need for it had expired, in the form of \"National Service\". After a bill with the same purpose had been approved in 1947, expected to be implemented 1 January 1949, the Cold War and the Malayan Emergency caused a revised and extended version of the new legislation to be approved in December 1948, only days before the new arrangements came into force.\n\nThe act had much in common with the National Service Act of September 1939, which it superseded, but its aim was to continue National Service even at times when the country was not at war. The National Service Act of September 1939 had not addressed this issue.\n\nThe National Service Act 1948 applied to all healthy young men (women did not have to do National Service) who were not registered as conscientious objectors. It did not affect the exemption from service of registered conscientious objectors, nor the procedure for registration.\n\nIn 1948, the British post-war government realised the need for an armed forces larger than that which voluntary recruitment could provide. Discussions were soon started in parliament on a new National Service Act with a first such act being approved in July 1947. This first version was to come into force on 1 January 1949 and established the period of National Service to 12 months. However, financial crises, the advent of the Cold War and the Malayan Emergency caused the act to be amended before coming into force. The amendment was approved in December 1948, with the date in which it would come into force still being 1 January 1949.\n\nThe act changed the age range from 18–41 to 17–21, and increased the period of service required from 6 to 18 months. As with previous acts, men who completed the service remained on the reserve list for the number of years in the age-range (four years) which started being counted from the moment they finished serving. However, men on the reserve list could only be called for periods of up to 20 days (previous acts allowed the period to be indefinite), and could not be called more than three times.\n\nThe act also changed the trades considered essential services to the merchant navy, farming and coal mining (previously, essential services were coal mining, shipbuilding, engineering-related trades and—to a limited extent—medicine). Young men working in the essential services were exempted from National Service for a period of eight years. If they stopped working in these industries before this period of eight years ended (that is, before turning 25), they could be called up for National Service.\n\nIn October 1950, in response to the British involvement in the Korean War, the service period was extended to two years. To compensate the reserve period was reduced by six months.\n\nNational Service ended gradually from 1960. In November 1960 the last men entered service, as call-ups formally ended on 31 December 1960, and the last National Servicemen left the armed forces in May 1963.\nIn 2015 Prince Harry made a call for bringing back the National Service. \n\n"}
{"id": "44919001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44919001", "title": "NetHui", "text": "NetHui\n\nNetHui is New Zealand's multi-stakeholder web conference on Internet governance and policy issues. NetHui 2014's statement of kaupapa, which also appears on the NZNOG website, reads:\n\nInternetNZ provides the NetHui platforms and events along with various interested people, organisations and other sponsors. The NetHui brand is recognised as a leading Internet Governance Forum meeting.\n\nSean Plunket attended NetHui 2011.\n\nNetHui 2012 included a discussion on \"Building online Te Reo and other multilingual content\".\n\nHon Amy Adams, Minister for Communications & Information Technology presented a Ministerial address at NetHui 2013. The International Keynote was given by Quinn Norton. All sessions and presentations were live-streamed and video recordings made available from the official site, now archived.\n\nDeputy Prime Minister of New Zealand Bill English opened NetHui 2014. Differing from previous years, speakers and sessions were [only] live-streamed to maximise [synchronous] participation. Afterwards more attention could be paid to New Zealand's most inclusive Web conference as it was storified. Privacy Commissioner John Edwards' New Zealand Keynote Address was uploaded to YouTube. A notable exchange occurred in the session on Trolling in which blogger G Spite responded to David Harvey with \"With all due respect I think your opinion is horseshit.\"\n\nNetHui 2015 is being community-led and is organised to be held again in the SkyCity Auckland Convention Centre in July.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21762341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21762341", "title": "Olive oil regulation and adulteration", "text": "Olive oil regulation and adulteration\n\nOlive oil regulation and adulteration are complex issues overseen and studied by various governmental bodies, non-governmental organizations, and private researchers across the world.\n\nThe International Olive Council (IOC) is an intergovernmental organization based in Madrid, Spain, with 16 member states plus the European Union. It promotes olive oil around the world by tracking production, defining quality standards, and monitoring authenticity. More than 98 percent of the world's olives are grown in IOC member nations. The United States is not a member of the IOC, and the US Department of Agriculture does not legally recognize its classifications (such as extra-virgin olive oil). On October 25, 2011, the United States adopted new olive oil standards, a revision of those that have been in place since 1948, which affect importers and domestic growers and producers by ensuring conformity with the benchmarks commonly accepted in the U.S. and abroad.\n\nThe IOC officially governs 95 per cent of international production and holds great influence over the rest. IOC terminology is precise, but it can lead to confusion between the words that describe production and the words used on retail labels. Olive oil is classified by how it was produced, by its chemistry, and by its flavor. All production begins by transforming the olive fruit into olive paste. This paste is then malaxed to allow the microscopic oil droplets to concentrate. The oil is extracted by means of pressure (traditional method) or centrifugation (modern method). After extraction the remnant solid substance, called pomace, still contains a small quantity of oil.\n\nThe EU regulates the use of different protected designation of origin labels for olive oils.\n\nUS Customs regulations on \"country of origin\" state that if a non-origin nation is shown on the label, then the real origin must be shown on the same side of the label and in comparable size letters so as not to mislead the consumer. Yet most major US brands continue to put \"imported from Italy\" on the front label in large letters and other origins on the back in very small print. These products are a mixture of olive oil from more than one nation and it is not clear what percentage of the olive oil is really of Italian origin. This practice makes it difficult for high quality, lower cost producers outside of Italy to enter the US market, and for genuine Italian producers to compete.\n\nWith Italian extra-virgin olive oil in high demand with concomitant high prices, adulterated olive oil has become the biggest source of agricultural fraud problems in the European Union. While less than 10% of world olive oil production meets the criteria for labeling as extra-virgin, it has been estimated that up to 50% of retail oil is labeled \"extra-virgin\". Some oil labeled \"extra-virgin\" is diluted with cheaper olive oils or other vegetable oils. In some cases, lampante, or \"lamp oil,\" which is made from spoiled olives fallen from trees, is used, even though it can't legally be sold as food. One fraud ring is accused of coloring low-grade soy oil and canola oil with industrial chlorophyll, and flavoring it with beta-carotene.\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) doesn't routinely test imported olive oil for adulteration, and some products are difficult to test.\n\nAn article by Tom Mueller in the August 13, 2007, issue of \"The New Yorker\" states that major Italian shippers routinely adulterate olive oil and that only about 40% of olive oil sold as \"extra virgin\" actually meets the specification. In some cases, colza oil with added color and flavor has been labeled and sold as olive oil. This extensive fraud prompted the Italian government to mandate a new labeling law in 2007 for companies selling olive oil, under which every bottle of Italian olive oil would have to declare the farm and press on which it was produced, as well as display a precise breakdown of the oils used, for blended oils. In February 2008, however, EU officials took issue with the new law, stating that under EU rules such labeling should be voluntary rather than compulsory. Under EU rules, olive oil may be sold as Italian even if it only contains a small amount of Italian oil.\n\nIn 1993, the FDA ordered a recall of Rubino U.S.A. Inc., (Cincinnati, Ohio) olive oils which were nothing more than canola oil.\n\nIn 1997, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency began conducting tests on 100 oils that claimed to be 100% olive oil and in 1999 the CFIA concluded that 20 per cent of the oils were fake. In 2013, \"Figures released at the [IOC's] Workshop on Olive Oil Authentication, held in Madrid June 10–11, show that one in four olive oils sampled in Spain, and nearly one in three in Canada, failed recent official fraud tests.\"\n\nIn March 2008, 400 Italian police officers conducted \"Operation Golden Oil\", arresting 23 people and confiscating 85 farms after an investigation revealed a large-scale scheme to relabel oils from other Mediterranean nations as Italian. In April 2008, another operation impounded seven olive oil plants and arrested 40 people in nine provinces of northern and southern Italy for adding chlorophyll to sunflower and soybean oil and selling it as extra virgin olive oil, both in Italy and abroad. 25,000 liters of the fake oil were seized and prevented from being exported.\n\nOn December 22, 2008, the Guardia Civil in La Rioja (Spain) warned about the possible sale of adulterated olive oil in the area. This warning came after 550 litres of oil was found in a large container labelled \"Astispumante 1510\" in Rincón de Soto and after the theft of 1,750 litres of oil was reported in the area on December 18, 2008.\n\nIn the first week of March 2010, researchers at the University of California at Davis' Olive Center purchased three bottles each of 14 imported olive oils and five California oils at retail stores in three different regions of California (Sacramento County, San Francisco Bay Area, and Los Angeles County). All of the oils were labeled \"extra-virgin olive oil.\" Samples were shipped to the Australian Oils Research Laboratory in Wagga Wagga, New South Wales, and were analyzed by their laboratory (which is recognized by the IOC to provide chemical analysis of olive oil) and tested by their sensory panel (which is recognized by the IOC as qualified to perform olive oil sensory analysis). Duplicate testing was performed at the UC Davis olive oil research project laboratories. Sixty-nine percent of the imported olive oils and 10% of the California oils failed to meet the IOC/USDA taste standards for extra-virgin olive oil. Samples that failed had a median of up to 3.5 IOC-standardized sensory defects (such as rancid, fusty, and musty). The standard IOC/USDA chemical tests only identified 31% of the failed oils as defective, primarily by exceeding the IOC/USDA limit for ultraviolet absorbance of late oxidation products (K232 and K268); two more recently introduced German chemical tests (now incorporated into the Australian extra-virgin standard) were each more than twice as effective at detection of defective oils. A subsequent round of testing in 2011 found similar results. The UC Davis report was contested by the North American Olive Oil Association on the grounds that UC Davis has a conflict of interest due to the fact that they market their own olive oil and have an interest in promoting olive oil from California. The IOC stated that the study contained \"[an] evident undercurrent of aggressive, inexplicable criticism of imported olive oil quality\".\n\nOn March 15, 2011, the Florence, Italy prosecutor’s office, working in conjunction with the forestry department, indicted two managers and an officer of Carapelli, one of the brands of the Spanish company Grupo SOS (which recently changed its name to Deoleo) and Pietro Coricelli. The charges involved falsified documents and food fraud. Carapelli lawyer Neri Pinucci said the company was not worried about the charges and that \"the case is based on an irregularity in the documents\". However, in June 2017 the Italian Antitrust Authority (Autorità Garante della Concorrenza e del Mercato), found them guilty of unfair business practices regarding their olive oil brands and imposed fines on them and the discount supermarket chain Lidl, amounting to nearly €1 million. According to independent testing, oil from the brands Carapelli, Bertolli, Sasso, Primadonna and Coricelli labelled as \"extra virgin\" was in fact only \"virgin.\" \n\nStandards Australia has adopted a code of practice for the testing of olive oils; however, while allowing oils to be certified as being genuine extra-virgin, the code regarding labeling is voluntary. The Australian Olive Association (AOA) is campaigning to have the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission force supermarkets to adhere to the code. After testing by AOA in 2012, every imported brand of extra-virgin olive oil fell below the standard that would be required for AOA certification.\n\nAdulterated oil is usually no more serious than passing off inferior, but safe, product as superior olive oil, but there are no guarantees. Almost 700 people died, it is believed, as a consequence of consuming rapeseed (canola) oil adulterated with aniline intended for use as an industrial lubricant, but sold in 1981 as olive oil in Spain (see toxic oil syndrome).\n\nThe detection of olive oil adulteration is often complicated with no single test that can accomplish the task. A battery of tests is employed to determine Olive oil authenticity and identity of the adulterant. Included in this testing regime is the determination of free acidity, peroxide value, UV extinction, fatty acid composition, sterol composition, triglyceride composition, wax content, steroidal hydrocarbons, and the Bellier test. Methods employing chromatography/mass spectrometry and spectroscopy are often used to detect adulteration of olive oil These methods can be very expensive, time consuming, and results are often incomplete, since components added/substituted can not always be identified.\n\nTest results are measured against the International Olive Council trade standard to identify abnormalities. Each test provides key information which allows a decision to be made with respect to the grade of Olive oil and the identity of any adulterants. However, the International Olive Council does not test for deodorisation which makes up the bulk of fake extra-virgin oils. Soft column deodorisation is the process where steam is forced through a tank of inferior oil which removes all taste, colour and nutrients, colouring is then added before the tank is topped up with real extra-virgin oil to add flavour.\n\nA test published in 1887 described the detection of olive oil adulterated with mineral oil by a simple titration of the carboxylic acid moieties present in natural vegetable oils. The procedure involved boiling 10 milliliters of olive oil with 40 milliliters of approximately 1 molar potassium hydroxide in 95% ethanol, adding water to 100 grams to dissolve the saponified lipids, and titrating against a normal sulfuric acid solution using phenolphthalein as a pH indicator dye. The base stock solution was titrated to neutralize an equal quantity of the acid, so without the presence of vegetable oil it would require 40 milliliters of acid to cause a color change, but in the pure oils tested (almond, benne, cottonseed, cod liver oil, linseed oil, and olive oil, only 6 milliliters were required. In accordance with this, olive oil adulterated with 10% mineral oil required 8 milliliters, and with 20% 11 milliliters. The adulterated oil tested in 1887 required 14 to 17 milliliters to neutralize, so it might have been 30-40% mineral oil.\n\nOlive oil DNA analysis methods, based on the use of PCR (e.g. DNA fingerprinting), have been use for determining counterfeit. These techniques requires extensive sample preparation, which needs specific optimization to ensure extraction of sufficient DNA, and that PCR inhibitors are not affecting the analysis. To date, there is no DNA extraction method applicable to any sample.\n\nAnother method against olive oil adulteration, making use of articial, sub-micrometer-sized DNA barcodes, has recently been developed. The barcodes consist of magnetically recoverable silica particles containing synthetic DNA sequences, which are added to the oil in very small amount (down to 1 ppb) and can be retrieved at any time for authenticity test by PCR/sequencing. The advantages of this method, compared to conventional techniques, are that it is low-cost, sample preparation is minimal and requires minute volumes, and the method is universal, since it can be applied to any oil type/sample without specific procedure optimization.\n\nThe North American Olive Oil Association offers a Quality Seal Program to guarantee authenticity of olive oil. Members of the association agree to have their oils tested twice a year to ensure the oil meets or exceeds the International Olive Council (IOC) standards. The testing includes both sensory (taste/smell) and chemical tests for purity. Samples are purchased from the retail marketplace to ensure that the products tested are the same as the ones purchased by consumers. The test samples are not selected and submitted by olive oil producers. Brands pay for the testing through a yearly licensing fee.\n\nThe California Olive Oil Council tests samples of olive oil submitted by producers for extra virgin quality. The samples are provided by the producers. The testing is primarily sensory with some chemical tests.\n\nThe Extra Virgin Alliance offers the EVA Mark of Quality and Authenticity. Auditors purchase oils from retail sources and test the oils against standards set by the EVA. The testing consists of sensory analysis and focuses on detection of defects.\n\nThere is a persistent mistaken belief that when genuine olive oil (or, in some versions, extra virgin olive oil specifically) is refrigerated, it will solidify or become much more viscous. This mistaken belief is based on the fact that olive oil is composed mainly of the monounsaturated fat oleic acid, and pure oleic acid (triolein) has a melting point of 5˚C, which is slightly above the high end of proper refrigerator temperature. Thus, if olive oil were pure triolein, it would solidify in a properly set refrigerator. However, olive oil is a complex mixture with significant variability in its fatty acid structure, and can be anywhere from 55% to 83% oleic acid, with the remainder a mixture of polyunsaturated fat and saturated fat, as well as containing waxes, phytosterols, and other compounds that affect its melting temperature. Thus, in practice, many olive oils have significantly lower melting temperatures. In fact, one might expect a refined seed oil with very high oleic acid content (such as high oleic sunflower oil) to be more likely to solidify in the refrigerator, based on their fatty acid composition and lack of minor compounds.\n\nThis was demonstrated by a test by scientists at the Olive Center at the University of California, Davis. Researchers put seven samples of different oils into a refrigerator at 4.7˚C, including a premium extra-virgin olive oil; low-quality extra-virgin olive oil; a blend of virgin and refined olive oil; refined canola oil; refined safflower oil; a 50-50 blend of premium extra virgin olive oil with refined canola oil; and a 50-50 blend of premium extra virgin olive oil with refined safflower oil. When tested at intervals up to 180 hours, not one of the oils fully solidified, and one of the oils that solidified the most was the olive oil-canola oil mixture. Thus, the \"Fridge Test\" is not reliable for determining oil purity or quality.\n\nPure olive oil should burn in an oil lamp. The ignition test however, like the refrigerator test, is not conclusive.\n\n"}
{"id": "11243227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11243227", "title": "Per minas", "text": "Per minas\n\nPer minas, in British common law, to engage in behavior \"by means of menaces or threats\".\n\nThe term comes from Latin.\n\n\"Per minas\" has been used as a defense of duress to certain crimes, as affecting the element of \"mens rea\". William Blackstone, the often-cited judge and legal scholar, addressed the use of \"duress \"per minas\"\" under the category of self-defense as a means of securing the \"right of personal security\", that is, the right of self-defense.\n\nThe classic case involves a person who is blackmailed into robbing a bank.\n\nIn contract law, Blackstone used \"per minas\" to describe the defense of duress, as affecting the element of contract intent, mutual assent, or meeting of the minds.\n"}
{"id": "14209707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14209707", "title": "Pierre Manent", "text": "Pierre Manent\n\nPierre Manent (; born 6 May 1949, Toulouse) is a French political scientist and academic. He teaches political philosophy at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, in the Centre de recherches politiques Raymond Aron. Every autumn, he is also a visiting teacher in Boston College at the Department of Political Science.\n\nAfter graduating from the École Normale Supérieure, he became assistant to Raymond Aron at the Collège de France. He was one of the founders of the quarterly \"Commentaire\" and remains a regular contributor.\n\nManent is a key figure of the contemporary French political philosophy and his work has helped the rediscovery of the French liberal tradition. A eurosceptic and a classical liberal, he has been called by \"The Weekly Standard\" to be \"the most profound of the Euroskeptical philosophers\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14689118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14689118", "title": "Polish Resettlement Act 1947", "text": "Polish Resettlement Act 1947\n\nThe Polish Resettlement Act 1947 was the first ever mass immigration legislation of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It offered British citizenship to over 200,000 displaced Polish troops on British soil who had fought against Nazi Germany and opposed the Soviet takeover of their homeland. The act also supplied a labour force to the demands of war-torn Britain.\n\nThe Polish contribution to World War II was outstanding, and directly led to the Polish Resettlement Act 1947 and the formation of the Polish British community as it exists today.\n\nIn advance of the war, the Polish Cypher Bureau broke the early version of the Enigma machine and gave their knowledge to the British, forming the basis for British cryptographic breakthroughs that produced the Ultra intelligence that was a key factor in many Allied successes during the war.\n\nThe majority of Poles came to the United Kingdom to help the Allied war effort after the Nazi-Soviet Pact led to the occupation of Poland in 1939. By 1940, with the fall of France, the Polish President, Prime Minister and the Polish government in exile transferred to London, along with a first wave of at least 20,000 soldiers and airmen. Thousands more followed throughout the war.\n\nPoles formed the fourth-largest Allied armed force in Europe after the Soviets, the Americans and the combined troops of British Empire. Poles were the largest group of non-British personnel in the RAF during the Battle of Britain. Special Operations Executive had a large section of covert, elite Polish troops and close cooperation with the Polish resistance. The Polish Army under British high command participated in the Battle of Monte Cassino, the Battle of the Falaise Gap, the Battle of Arnhem, the Siege of Tobruk and the liberation of many European cities including Bologna and Breda.\n\nBy July 1945, 228,000 troops of the Polish Armed Forces in the West were serving under the high command of the British Army. Many of these men and women were originally from the Kresy region of eastern Poland including cities such as Lwów and Wilno. They had been deported from Kresy to the Soviet gulags when the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany occupied Poland in 1939 in accordance with the Nazi-Soviet Pact. When two years later Churchill and Stalin formed an alliance against Hitler, the Kresy Poles were released from the Gulags in Siberia, formed the Anders Army and marched to Persia to create the II Corps (Poland) under British high command.\n\nThe Polish II Corps was instrumental in the Allied defeat of the Germans in North Africa and Italy, and its members hoped to return to Kresy in an independent and democratic Poland at the end of the War. But at Yalta, Churchill agreed Stalin should keep the Soviet gains that Adolf Hitler had endorsed in the Nazi-Soviet Pact, including Kresy, and carry out Polish population transfers (1944–1946). Consequently, Churchill had agreed that tens of thousands of veteran Polish troops under British command should lose their Kresy homes to the Soviet Union, with the implication that relatives including wives and children would be at the mercy of the NKVD. In reaction, thirty officers and men from the II Corps (Poland) committed suicide.\n\nChurchill explained his actions in a three-day Parliamentary debate starting 27 February 1945, which ended in a vote of confidence. Many MPs openly criticised Churchill over Yalta and voiced strong loyalty to Britain's Polish allies. Some reporters felt Churchill was not confident Poland would be the independent and democratic country Polish troops could return to, because the prime minister also said: 'His Majesty's Government will never forget the debt they owe to the Polish troops... I earnestly hope it will be possible for them to have citizenship and freedom of the British empire, if they so desire.' \n\nDuring the debate, 25 MPs risked their careers to draft an amendment protesting against Britain's tacit acceptance of Poland's domination by the Soviet Union. These members included Arthur Greenwood; Sir Archibald Southby, 1st Baronet; Sir Alec Douglas-Home; James Heathcote-Drummond-Willoughby, 3rd Earl of Ancaster and Victor Raikes. After the failure of the amendment, Henry Strauss, 1st Baron Conesford, the Member of Parliament for Norwich, resigned his seat in protest at the British treatment of Poland.\n\nWhen the Second World War ended, Joseph Stalin reneged on his Yalta promises and a Communist government was installed in Poland. Still, the British government wanted to maintain cordial relations with Stalin, and so tried to persuade Poles in the UK to leave. Most Poles felt betrayed by their wartime allies. They refused to return to Poland, because of a range of reasons: the Soviet repressions of Polish citizens (1939–1946), Soviet conduct around the 1944 Warsaw Uprising, the Trial of the Sixteen and other executions of pro-democracy Poles such as former members of the Home Army including Emil Fieldorf and Witold Pilecki, and finally, the creation of the Eastern Bloc.\n\nThe result was the Polish Resettlement Act 1947, Britain's first mass immigration law.\n\nLarge numbers of Poles, after occupying resettlement camps of the Polish Resettlement Corps, later settled in London, and industrial areas of the North, while many other Poles were recruited as European Volunteer Workers. Others settled in the British Empire, forming large Polish Canadian and Polish Australian communities.\n\nIn the 1951 Census, the Polish-born population of the UK numbered some 162,339, up from 44,642 in 1931.\n\nAt the same time, Britain's social and economic areas had been hard hit by the Second World War, and to rebuild itself physically and financially it required a workforce to do it quickly and effectively. The Polish Resettlement Act enabled Poles to settle in Britain and provide labour. They formed much of the Polish British community as it existed prior to Poland's accession to the European Union in 2004, and the mass immigration to Britain which followed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4799848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4799848", "title": "Puddling (civil engineering)", "text": "Puddling (civil engineering)\n\nPuddling is both the material and the process of lining a water body such as a channel or pond with puddle clay (puddle, puddling) - a watertight (low hydraulic conductivity) material based on clay and water mixed to be workable,\n\nPuddling is used in maintaining canals or reservoirs on permeable ground. The technique of puddling and its use was developed by early canal engineer James Brindley; it is considered his greatest contribution to engineering. This processed material was used extensively in UK canal construction in the period starting circa 1780. Starting about 1840 puddle clay was used more widely as the water-retaining element (or core) within earthfill dams, particularly in the Pennines. Its usage in UK dams was superseded about 1960 by the use of rolled clay in the core, and better control of moisture content.\n\nA considerable number of early notable dams were built in that era and they are now sometimes referred to as the 'Pennines embankment' type. These dams are characterized by a slender vertical puddle clay core supported on both sides by earthfill shoulders of more heterogeneous material. To control under-seepage through the natural foundation below the dam, the Pennines embankments generally constructed a puddle clay-filled cutoff trench in rock directly below the central core. Later construction often used concrete to fill the cutoff trench.\n\nTo make puddle, clay or heavy loam is chopped with a spade and mixed into a plastic state with water and sometimes coarse sand or grit to discourage excavation by moles or water voles. The puddle is laid about thick at the sides and nearly thick at the bottom of a canal, built up in layers. Puddle has to be kept wet in order to remain waterproof so it is important for canals to be kept filled with water.\n\nThe clay is laid down with a tool called a 'punner', or 'pun', a large rectangular block on a handle about long, or trodden down, or compacted by some other means (e.g. by an excavator using the convex outside of its scoop, or, historically, by driving cattle across the area).\n\nPuddle clay or puddle adobe is often called cob. Cob has added ingredients of a fibrous material to act as a mechanical binder.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57485726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57485726", "title": "Quadratic voting", "text": "Quadratic voting\n\nQuadratic voting (sometimes abbreviated QV) is a collective decision-making procedure, where participants cast their \"preference\" and \"intensity of preference\" for each decision (as opposed to a simple \"for\" or \"against\" decision).\n\nAccording to its authors Steven P. Lalley and E. Glen Weyl, Quadratic voting is claimed to achieve the greatest possible good for the greatest number of group members although other proponents of Quadratic Voting admit that is at best an approximation. It addresses issues of voting paradox and majority-rule.\n\nBased on market principles, each voter is endowed with a budget of “voice credits” that they may spend influencing the outcome of a range of decisions. If a participant has a strong preference for or against a particular decision, additional votes can be allocated. A vote pricing rule determines the cost of additional votes, whereby each vote increasingly becomes more expensive.\n\nThe quadratic nature of the voting means that a voter can use his or her votes more efficiently spread across many issues. For example a voter with a budget of 16 vote credits can apply 1 vote credit to each of 16 issues. But if they feel strongly about a single issue and apply 4 votes at the cost of 16 credits to a single issue. This will use their entire budget. This also means there is a large incentive to buy and sell votes, although using a strictly secret ballot gives some protection against vote buying as the purchase cannot be verified.\n"}
{"id": "9027715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9027715", "title": "Registered owner", "text": "Registered owner\n\nThe term registered owner is usually used in instances of title of a vehicle (such as an automobile) to refer to the person who has \"right of possession\" of the vehicle, as opposed to the party that has \"right of property\". The party that has right of property is referred to as a lienholder, and in the event the registered owner fails to pay off the lien according to the agreed-to terms, the lienholder has the right to invoke repossession of the vehicle.\n\n"}
{"id": "51836388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51836388", "title": "Romanian Royal strike", "text": "Romanian Royal strike\n\nThe Romanian Royal Strike () was a period of constitutional crisis in Romania between August 1945 and January 1946. During this period, King Michael I refused to sign the bills enacted by the Petru Groza cabinet or to receive its Ministers in audience. \n\nThe King was \"in strike\" as a form of protest, following Petru Groza's refusal to resign his position on the King's request - an unprecedented fact in Romanian political life. Following the advice of the opposition parties, the National Peasants' Party (PNȚ) and the National Liberal Party (PNL), and silently encouraged by the Western Allies, King Michael sought to replace the left-wing Petru Groza Cabinet - supported by the Soviet leadership - with one based on the two opposition parties.\n\nThe Royal Strike ended in January 1946, when Petru Groza accepted in his cabinet two representatives from the main factions of the PNȚ and PNL, leading to diplomatic recognition by the governments of the United States and the United Kingdom. This was a formal arrangement, since the two Ministers held little power in a cabinet increasingly dominated by the Communist Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1810677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810677", "title": "Russian State Library", "text": "Russian State Library\n\nThe Russian State Library () is the national library of Russia, located in Moscow. It is the largest in the country and the fifth largest in the world for its collection of books (17.5 million). It was named the V. I. Lenin State Library of the USSR from 1925 until it was renamed in 1992 as the Russian State Library.\n\nThe library has over 275 km of shelves with more than 43 million items, including over 17 million books and serial volumes, 13 million journals, 350 thousand music scores and sound records, 150,000 maps and others. There are items in 247 languages of the world, the foreign part representing about 29 percent of the entire collection.\n\nBetween 1922 and 1991 at least one copy of every book published in the USSR was deposited with the library, a practice which continues in a similar method today, with the library designated by law as a legal deposit library.\n\nThe library was founded on July 1, 1862, as Moscow's first free public library named \"The Library of the Moscow Public Museum and Rumiantsev Museum\", or \"The Rumiantsev Library\". It is nicknamed the \"Leninka.\" Rumyantsev Museum part of the complex was Moscow's first public museum, and housed the Art collection of count Nikolai Petrovich Rumyantsev, which had been given to the Russian people and transferred from St. Petersburg to Moscow. Its donation covered above all books and manuscripts as well as an extensive numismatic and an ethnographic collection. These, as well as approximately 200 paintings and more than 20,000 prints, which had been selected from the collection of the Hermitage in St. Petersburg, could be seen in the so-called Pashkov House (a palace, established between 1784 and 1787, in the proximity of the Kremlin). Tsar Alexander II of Russia donated the painting \"The Appearance of Christ before the People\" by Alexander Andreyevich Ivanov for the opening of the museum.\nThe citizens of Moscow, deeply impressed by the count's altruistic donation, named the new museum after its founder and had the inscription \"from count Rumyantsev for the good Enlightenment\" carved above its entrance. In the subsequent years, the collection of the museum grew by numerous further donations of objects and money, so that the museum soon housed a yet more important collection of Western European paintings, an extensive antique collection and a large collection of icons. Indeed, the collection grew so much that soon the premises of the Pashkov House became insufficient, and a second building was built beside the museum shortly after the turn of the 20th century to house the paintings in particular. \nAfter the October Revolution the contents again grew enormously, and again lack of space became an urgent problem. Acute financial problems also arose, for most of the money to finance the Museum flowed into the Pushkin Museum, which had only been finished a few years before and was assuming the Rumyantsev Museum's role. Therefore, it was decided in 1925 to dissolve the Rumyantsev Museum and to spread its collections over other museums and institutions in the country. Part of the collections, in particular the Western European art and antiques, were thus transferred to the Pushkin Museum. Pashkov House (at 3 Mokhovaya Street) was renamed the Old Building of the Russian State Library. The old state archive building on the corner of Mokhovaya and Vozdvizhenka Streets was razed and replaced by the new buildings.\nConstruction of the first stage, designed by Vladimir Shchuko and Vladimir Gelfreikh in 1927–1929, was authorized in 1929 and commenced in 1930. The first stage was largely complete in 1941. In the process, the building acquired the \"modernized neoclassicism\" exterior features of the Palace of Soviets (co-designed by Shchuko and Gelfreikh), departing from the stern modernism of the 1927 drafts. The last component of Shchuko's plan, a 250-seat reading hall, was opened in 1945; further additions continued until 1960. In 1968 the building reached its capacity, and the library launched construction of a new depository in Khimki, earmarked for storing newspapers, scientific works and low-demand books from the main storage areas. The first stage of Khimki library was complete in 1975.\n\nIn 1925 the complex was renamed the V. I. Lenin State Library of the USSR. In 1992, it was renamed the Russian State Library by order of a decree from President Boris Yeltsin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2885040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2885040", "title": "Saburō Aizawa", "text": "Saburō Aizawa\n\nSaburō Aizawa ( \"Aizawa Saburō\") (September 6, 1889 – July 3, 1936) was a Japanese soldier born in Iwate Prefecture.\n\nHe reached the rank of lieutenant-colonel. He assassinated Tetsuzan Nagata with his sword on August 12, 1935, because he was reputedly putting the Army \"in the paws of high finance\". Aizawa made no attempt to resist arrest and reportedly said that he \"was in an absolute sphere, so there was neither affirmation nor negation, neither good nor evil\". After a high-profile trial, he was executed by a firing squad. His actions helped the Tōseiha faction, which he hated, gain absolute control over the Japanese military.\n\n"}
{"id": "59170693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59170693", "title": "Seneschal of the Agenais", "text": "Seneschal of the Agenais\n\nThe Seneschal of the Agenais was an officer carrying out and managing the domestic affairs of the lord of the former county and district of Agenais. During the course of the twelfth century, the seneschalship, also became an office of military command.\n\nThe seneschal managed the household, coordinating between the receivers of various landholdings and the chamber, treasury, and the chancellory or chapel. The seneschals of the Agenais, like those appointed in Périgord, Poitou, and Najou had custody of demesne fortresses, the regional treasuries, and presidency of the highest court of regional custom.\n\n"}
{"id": "8416970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8416970", "title": "Standstill period", "text": "Standstill period\n\nThe \"Alcatel\" mandatory standstill period is a period of at least ten calendar days following the notification of an award decision in a contract tendered via the Official Journal of the European Union, before the contract is signed with the successful supplier(s). Its purpose is to allow unsuccessful bidders to challenge the decision before the contract is signed. It is named after a pair of linked European Court of Justice cases which are jointly known as the \"Alcatel\" case (Case C-81/98). Within the UK, it was introduced by the Office of Government Commerce in 2005.\n\nThe timelines given below are the minimum (of at least 10 days) under the 'Alcatel' mandatory standstill period and show the days by which specific actions by \n- the tenderer (ie a request for additional de-briefing within the standstill period), and \n- the contracting authority (ie notify all tenderers of the award decision and the completion of any requested additional de-briefing) in order to comply with the minimum period before entering into a contract (assuming no legal challenges are formally notified).\n\nNotes:\n- Depending on the day of the initial notification of the intention of the contract award decision, given the very tight timescales for the additional debriefing, it may be more practical to extend the end-date of the standstill period beyond the minimum of 10 calendar days.\n\n- The 'traditional' de-briefing requirement (within 15 days of receiving a written request) remains where a tenderer does not seek an additional de-briefing within the first 2 working days of the standstill period. In any case, all tenderers can make formal complaints in Court within the standstill period regardless of having requested or received debriefing within the standstill period and Courts can agree to grant interim measures preventing contract award.\n\nAction\n\nThe contract may be concluded if no legal challenge has been notified\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11129535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11129535", "title": "Tarleton Gillespie", "text": "Tarleton Gillespie\n\nTarleton Gillespie is a Principal Researcher at Microsoft Research New England and an Adjunct Associate Professor in the Department of Communication at Cornell University. He is the author of the book \"Wired Shut: Copyright and the Shape of Digital Culture\".\n\nGillespie has been awarded the Young Faculty Teaching Excellence Award in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Cornell University; he was the commencement speaker for the Information Science/Information Science, Systems and Technology majors at Cornell University for 2007.\n\nGillespie received his B.A. in English from Amherst College in 1994, and his M.A. in Communication from the University of California, San Diego in 1997. He obtained his Ph.D. in Communication from the University of California, San Diego in January 2002. He has been working for the Department of Communication at Cornell University since 2010.\n\nGillespie is currently researching the impact of the Internet and modern media technologies on copyright law and the progression of copyright law in the digital age. He is also interested in topics such as digital rights management and other digital copy protection strategies and their effect on culture. Broader interests include debates on peer-to-peer file-sharing, information technology, animation and children's media. His 2018 book, \"Custodians of the Internet\", discusses the complex relationship social media sites have with hate speech and extremist groups on their sites, as there are no defined \"custodian\" responsibilities in policing this content, and actions taken are mainly left up to the discretion of private companies. \n\nThe article \"The Politics of 'Platforms\" by Tarleton Gillespie provides the information of how one word can provide many paths for an online content provider. He has grouped the word 'platform' into four distinct categories that can help define what an online software platform does. He categorizes the word platform as computational, architectural, figurative and political. All four of these categories relate to why the term 'platform' has \"emerged in reference to online content-hosting intermediaries and, just as important, what value both its specificity and its flexibility offer them\" (The Platform of Politics,p. 350). To read more: The Politics of Platform\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"Wired Shut: Copyright and the Shape of Digital Culture\" (MIT Press, 2007).\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"book review: Michael Strangelove, \"The Empire of Mind: Digital Piracy and the Anti-Capitalist Movement\".\" New Media & Society (forthcoming, 2007)\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"book review: \"Steven Weber, The Success of Open Source\".\" Isis (forthcoming, v97n3, September 2006): 592-593. available online at http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/Isis/journal/contents/v97n3.html\n\nBurk, Dan and Gillespie, Tarleton. \"Autonomy and Morality in DRM and Anti-circumvention Law.\" Triple C: Cognition, Communication, Cooperation. (v4n2, November 2006), available online at: https://web.archive.org/web/20070928013241/http://triplec.uti.at/files/tripleC4(2)_Burk-Gillespie.pdf\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"Designed to 'Effectively Frustrate': Copyright, Technology, and the Agency of Users\" New Media & Society (v8n4, August 2006): 651-669, available online at: http://hdl.handle.net/1813/3471\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"Engineering a Principle: 'End-to-End' in the Design of the Internet.\" Social Studies of Science (v36n3, June 2006): 427-457.available online at: http://hdl.handle.net/1813/3472\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"Everything to Everyone.\" InsideHigherEd (January 27, 2006), available online at http://www.insidehighered.com/views/2006/01/27/gillespie\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"Between What's Right and What's Easy.\" InsideHigherEd (October 21, 2005), available online at: http://www.insidehighered.com/views/2005/10/21/gillespie\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"Copyright and Commerce: The DCMA, Trusted Systems, and the Stabilization of Distribution.\" The Information Society. (v20n4, September 2004: 239-254, available at: http://hdl.handle.net/1813/3473\n\nGillespie, Tarleton. \"The Politics of Platforms.\" New Media Society(2010).12(3).347-367\n\n2009: Outstanding Book Award, International Communication Association, for Wired Shut\n2009: Book Award, Communication and Information Technology division of the American Sociological Association, for Wired Shut \n2008: Residential fellow, Institute for the Social Sciences, Cornell University\n2008: Top Three Paper, Communication Law and Policy division, International Communication Association \n2007: Young Faculty Teaching Excellence Award, Cornell University \n2007: Commencement speaker, Information Science, Cornell University\n\n2000: Dissertation fellowship, Dept. of Communication, Univ. of California, San Diego \n1997: Teaching Excellence Award, UCSD Center for Teaching Development \n1995: UCSD Predoctoral Humanities Fellowship, Univ. of California, San Diego\n\n"}
{"id": "730120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730120", "title": "The Three Types of Legitimate Rule", "text": "The Three Types of Legitimate Rule\n\n\"The Three Types of Legitimate Rule\" (\"Die drei reinen Typen der legitimen Herrschaft\") is an essay written by Max Weber, a German economist and sociologist, explaining his tripartite classification of authority. Originally published in the journal \"Preussische Jahrbücher\" 187, 1-2, 1922, an English translation, translated by Hans Gerth, was published in the journal \"Berkeley Publications in Society and Institutions\" 4(1): 1-11, 1958. Weber also refers to the three types of legitimate rule in his famous essay \"Politics as a Vocation.\"\n\nAccording to Weber, beliefs in the legitimacy of a political system go beyond philosophy and they directly contribute to the state system stability and authority. All rulers have an explanation for their superiority, an explanation that is commonly accepted but during a crisis can be questioned. Weber sees only three categories of legitimation strategies (which he calls \"pure types\") used to justify the right of rulers to rule:\n\nThe types of authority change over time, when the ruled are no longer satisfied with the system. For example, after the death of a charismatic leader his followers, if they lack the charisma of their predecessor, will try to institute a system based on tradition or law. On the other hand, these systems can be challenged by the appearance of a new charismatic leader, especially during economic or military crises.\n\nThese 'pure types' are almost always found in combination with other 'pure types' — for example, familial charisma (important in kingship and the Indian caste system) is a combination of charismatic and traditional elements, while institutional charisma (existing in all church organizations, but absent from a priesthood that fails to develop such an organization) is a mixture of charismatic and legal elements.\n"}
{"id": "29823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29823", "title": "Thomas Hobbes", "text": "Thomas Hobbes\n\nThomas Hobbes (; 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679), in some older texts Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury, was an English philosopher who is considered one of the founders of modern political philosophy. Hobbes is best known for his 1651 book \"Leviathan\", which expounded an influential formulation of social contract theory. In addition to political philosophy, Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of other fields, including history, jurisprudence, geometry, the physics of gases, theology, ethics, and general philosophy.\n\nThough on rational grounds a champion of absolutism for the sovereign, Hobbes also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought: the right of the individual; the natural equality of all men; the artificial character of the political order (which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state); the view that all legitimate political power must be \"representative\" and based on the consent of the people; and a liberal interpretation of law that leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid. His understanding of humans as being matter and motion, obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion, remains influential; and his account of human nature as self-interested cooperation, and of political communities as being based upon a \"social contract\" remains one of the major topics of political philosophy.\n\nThomas Hobbes was born at Westport, now part of Malmesbury in Wiltshire, England, on 5 April 1588. Born prematurely when his mother heard of the coming invasion of the Spanish Armada, Hobbes later reported that \"my mother gave birth to twins: myself and fear.\" His childhood is almost completely unknown, and his mother's name is unknown. His father, Thomas Sr., was the vicar of Charlton and Westport. Thomas Hobbes, the younger, had a brother Edmund, about two years older, and a sister. Thomas Sr. was involved in a fight with the local clergy outside his church, forcing him to leave London and abandon the family. The family was left in the care of Thomas Sr.'s older brother, Francis, a wealthy merchant with no family. Hobbes Jr. was educated at Westport church from age four, passed to the Malmesbury school, and then to a private school kept by a young man named Robert Latimer, a graduate of the University of Oxford. Hobbes was a good pupil, and around 1603 he went up to Magdalen Hall, the predecessor college to Hertford College, Oxford. The principal John Wilkinson was a Puritan, and he had some influence on Hobbes.\n\nAt university, Hobbes appears to have followed his own curriculum; he was \"little attracted by the scholastic learning\" and completed his B.A. degree in 1608. He was recommended by Sir James Hussey, his master at Magdalen, as tutor to William, the son of William Cavendish, Baron of Hardwick (and later Earl of Devonshire), and began a lifelong connection with that family.\n\nHobbes became a companion to the younger William and in 1610 they both took part in a grand tour of Europe. Hobbes was exposed to European scientific and critical methods during the tour, in contrast to the scholastic philosophy that he had learned in Oxford. His scholarly efforts at the time were aimed at a careful study of classic Greek and Latin authors. One outcome was, in 1628, his translation of Thucydides' \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", the first translation of that work into English from the original Greek. It has been argued that three of the discourses in the 1620 publication known as \"Horea Subsecivae: Observations and Discourses\" also represent the work of Hobbes from this period.\n\nAlthough he associated with literary figures like Ben Jonson and briefly worked as Francis Bacon's amanuensis, he did not extend his efforts into philosophy until after 1629. In June 1628, his employer Cavendish, then the Earl of Devonshire, died of the plague and the widowed countess dismissed Hobbes.] \n\nHobbes soon found work as a tutor to Gervase Clifton, the son of Sir Gervase Clifton, 1st Baronet mostly spent in Paris until 1631. Thereafter, he again found work with the Cavendish family, tutoring William Cavendish, 3rd Earl of Devonshire, the eldest son of his previous pupil. Over the next seven years, as well as tutoring, he expanded his own knowledge of philosophy, awakening in him curiosity over key philosophic debates. He visited Florence in 1636 and was later a regular debater in philosophic groups in Paris, held together by Marin Mersenne.\n\nHobbes's first area of study was an interest in the physical doctrine of motion and physical momentum. Despite his interest in this phenomenon, he disdained experimental work as in physics. He went on to conceive the system of thought to the elaboration of which he would devote his life. His scheme was first to work out, in a separate treatise, a systematic doctrine of body, showing how physical phenomena were universally explicable in terms of motion, at least as motion or mechanical action was then understood. He then singled out Man from the realm of Nature and plants. Then, in another treatise, he showed what specific bodily motions were involved in the production of the peculiar phenomena of sensation, knowledge, affections and passions whereby Man came into relation with Man. Finally he considered, in his crowning treatise, how Men were moved to enter into society, and argued how this must be regulated if Men were not to fall back into \"brutishness and misery\". Thus he proposed to unite the separate phenomena of Body, Man, and the State.\n\nHobbes came home, in 1637, to a country riven with discontent, which disrupted him from the orderly execution of his philosophic plan. However, by the end of the Short Parliament in 1640, he had written a short treatise called \"The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic\". It was not published and only circulated as a manuscript among his acquaintances. A pirated version, however, was published about ten years later. Although it seems that much of \"The Elements of Law\" was composed before the sitting of the Short Parliament, there are polemical pieces of the work that clearly mark the influences of the rising political crisis. Nevertheless, many (though not all) elements of Hobbes's political thought were unchanged between \"The Elements of Law\" and \"Leviathan,\" which demonstrates that the events of the English Civil War had little effect on his contractarian methodology. However, the arguments in \"Leviathan\" were modified from \"The Elements of Law\" when it came to the necessity of consent in creating political obligation. Namely, Hobbes wrote in \"The Elements of Law\" that Patrimonial kingdoms were not necessarily formed by the consent of the governed, while in \"Leviathan\" he argued that they were. This was perhaps a reflection either of Hobbes's thoughts about the engagement controversy or of his reaction to treatises published by Patriarchalists, such as Sir Robert Filmer, between 1640 and 1651.\n\nWhen in November 1640 the Long Parliament succeeded the Short, Hobbes felt that he was in disfavour due to the circulation of his treatise and fled to Paris. He did not return for 11 years. In Paris, he rejoined the coterie around Mersenne and wrote a critique of the \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" of Descartes, which was printed as third among the sets of \"Objections\" appended, with \"Replies\" from Descartes, in 1641. A different set of remarks on other works by Descartes succeeded only in ending all correspondence between the two.\n\nHobbes also extended his own works in a way, working on the third section, \"De Cive\", which was finished in November 1641. Although it was initially only circulated privately, it was well received, and included lines of argumentation that were repeated a decade later in \"Leviathan\". He then returned to hard work on the first two sections of his work and published little except a short treatise on optics (\"Tractatus opticus\") included in the collection of scientific tracts published by Mersenne as \"Cogitata physico-mathematica\" in 1644. He built a good reputation in philosophic circles and in 1645 was chosen with Descartes, Gilles de Roberval and others to referee the controversy between John Pell and Longomontanus over the problem of squaring the circle.\n\nThe English Civil War began in 1642, and when the royalist cause began to decline in mid-1644, the king's supporters fled to Europe. Many came to Paris and were known to Hobbes. This revitalised Hobbes's political interests and the \"De Cive\" was republished and more widely distributed. The printing began in 1646 by Samuel de Sorbiere through the Elsevier press at Amsterdam with a new preface and some new notes in reply to objections.\n\nIn 1647, Hobbes took up a position as mathematical instructor to the young Charles, Prince of Wales, who had come to Paris from Jersey around July. This engagement lasted until 1648 when Charles went to Holland.\n\nThe company of the exiled royalists led Hobbes to produce \"Leviathan\", which set forth his theory of civil government in relation to the political crisis resulting from the war. Hobbes compared the State to a monster (leviathan) composed of men, created under pressure of human needs and dissolved by civil strife due to human passions. The work closed with a general \"Review and Conclusion\", in response to the war, which answered the question: Does a subject have the right to change allegiance when a former sovereign's power to protect is irrevocably lost?\n\nDuring the years of composing \"Leviathan\", Hobbes remained in or near Paris. In 1647, a serious illness that nearly killed him disabled him for six months. On recovering, he resumed his literary task and completed it by 1650. Meanwhile, a translation of \"De Cive\" was being produced; scholars disagree about whether it was Hobbes who translated it.\n\nIn 1650, a pirated edition of \"The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic\" was published. It was divided into two small volumes (\"Human Nature, or the Fundamental Elements of Policie\" and \"De corpore politico, or the Elements of Law, Moral and Politick\"). \n\nIn 1651, the translation of \"De Cive\" was published under the title \"Philosophicall Rudiments concerning Government and Society\". Also, the printing of the greater work proceeded, and finally appeared in mid-1651, titled \"Leviathan, or the Matter, Forme, and Power of a Common Wealth, Ecclesiasticall and Civil.\" It had a famous title-page engraving depicting a crowned giant above the waist towering above hills overlooking a landscape, holding a sword and a crozier and made up of tiny human figures. The work had immediate impact. Soon, Hobbes was more lauded and decried than any other thinker of his time. The first effect of its publication was to sever his link with the exiled royalists, who might well have killed him. The secularist spirit of his book greatly angered both Anglicans and French Catholics. Hobbes appealed to the revolutionary English government for protection and fled back to London in winter 1651. After his submission to the Council of State, he was allowed to subside into private life in Fetter Lane.\n\nIn \"Leviathan\", Hobbes set out his doctrine of the foundation of states and legitimate governments and creating an objective science of morality. Much of the book is occupied with demonstrating the necessity of a strong central authority to avoid the evil of discord and civil war.\n\nBeginning from a mechanistic understanding of human beings and their passions, Hobbes postulates what life would be like without government, a condition which he calls the state of nature. In that state, each person would have a right, or license, to everything in the world. This, Hobbes argues, would lead to a \"war of all against all\" (\"bellum omnium contra omnes\"). The description contains what has been called one of the best known passages in English philosophy, which describes the natural state humankind would be in, were it not for political community:\nIn such a state, people fear death, and lack both the things necessary to commodious living, and the hope of being able to toil to obtain them. So, in order to avoid it, people accede to a social contract and establish a civil society. According to Hobbes, society is a population and a sovereign authority, to whom all individuals in that society cede some rights for the sake of protection. Any power exercised by this authority cannot be resisted, because the protector's sovereign power derives from individuals' surrendering their own sovereign power for protection. The individuals are thereby the authors of all decisions made by the sovereign. \"he that complaineth of injury from his sovereign complaineth that whereof he himself is the author, and therefore ought not to accuse any man but himself, no nor himself of injury because to do injury to one's self is impossible\". There is no doctrine of separation of powers in Hobbes's discussion. According to Hobbes, the sovereign must control civil, military, judicial and ecclesiastical powers, even the words.\n\nIn 1654 a small treatise, \"Of Liberty and Necessity\", directed at Hobbes, was published by Bishop John Bramhall. Bramhall, a strong Arminian, had met and debated with Hobbes and afterwards wrote down his views and sent them privately to be answered in this form by Hobbes. Hobbes duly replied, but not for publication. However, a French acquaintance took a copy of the reply and published it with \"an extravagantly laudatory epistle\". Bramhall countered in 1655, when he printed everything that had passed between them (under the title of \"A Defence of the True Liberty of Human Actions from Antecedent or Extrinsic Necessity\"). In 1656, Hobbes was ready with \"The Questions concerning Liberty, Necessity and Chance\", in which he replied \"with astonishing force\" to the bishop. As perhaps the first clear exposition of the psychological doctrine of determinism, Hobbes's own two pieces were important in the history of the free-will controversy. The bishop returned to the charge in 1658 with \"Castigations of Mr Hobbes's Animadversions\", and also included a bulky appendix entitled \"The Catching of Leviathan the Great Whale\".\n\nHobbes opposed the existing academic arrangements, and assailed the system of the original universities in \"Leviathan\". He went on to publish \"De Corpore\", which contained not only tendentious views on mathematics but also an erroneous proof of the squaring of the circle. This all led mathematicians to target him for polemics and sparked John Wallis to become one of his most persistent opponents. From 1655, the publishing date of \"De Corpore\", Hobbes and Wallis went round after round trying to disprove each other's positions. After years of debate, the spat over proving the squaring of the circle gained such notoriety that it has become one of the most infamous feuds in mathematical history.\n\nHobbes has been accused of atheism, or (in the case of Bramhall) of teachings that could lead to atheism. This was an important accusation, and Hobbes himself wrote, in his answer to Bramhall's \"The Catching of Leviathan\", that \"atheism, impiety, and the like are words of the greatest defamation possible\". Hobbes always defended himself from such accusations. In more recent times also, much has been made of his religious views by scholars such as Richard Tuck and J. G. A. Pocock, but there is still widespread disagreement about the exact significance of Hobbes's unusual views on religion.\n\nAs Martinich has pointed out, in Hobbes's time the term \"atheist\" was often applied to people who believed in God but not in divine providence, or to people who believed in God but also maintained other beliefs that were inconsistent with such belief. He says that this \"sort of discrepancy has led to many errors in determining who was an atheist in the early modern period\". In this extended early modern sense of atheism, Hobbes did take positions that strongly disagreed with church teachings of his time. For example, he argued repeatedly that there are no incorporeal substances, and that all things, including human thoughts, and even God, heaven, and hell are corporeal, matter in motion. He argued that \"though Scripture acknowledge spirits, yet doth it nowhere say, that they are incorporeal, meaning thereby without dimensions and quantity\". (In this view, Hobbes claimed to be following Tertullian, whose views were not condemned in the First Council of Nicaea.) Like John Locke, he also stated that true revelation can never disagree with human reason and experience, although he also argued that people should accept revelation and its interpretations for the reason that they should accept the commands of their sovereign, in order to avoid war.\n\nIn 1658, Hobbes published the final section of his philosophical system, completing the scheme he had planned more than 20 years before. \"De Homine\" consisted for the most part of an elaborate theory of vision. The remainder of the treatise dealt cursorily with some of the topics more fully treated in the \"Human Nature\" and the \"Leviathan\". In addition to publishing some controversial writings on mathematics and physics, Hobbes also continued to produce philosophical works. From the time of the Restoration, he acquired a new prominence; \"Hobbism\" became a byword for all that respectable society ought to denounce. The young king, Hobbes' former pupil, now Charles II, remembered Hobbes and called him to the court to grant him a pension of £100.\n\nThe king was important in protecting Hobbes when, in 1666, the House of Commons introduced a bill against atheism and profaneness. That same year, on 17 October 1666, it was ordered that the committee to which the bill was referred \"should be empowered to receive information touching such books as tend to atheism, blasphemy and profaneness... in particular... the book of Mr. Hobbes called the \"Leviathan\"\". Hobbes was terrified at the prospect of being labelled a heretic, and proceeded to burn some of his compromising papers. At the same time, he examined the actual state of the law of heresy. The results of his investigation were first announced in three short Dialogues added as an \"Appendix\" to his \"Latin translation of Leviathan\", published in Amsterdam in 1668. In this appendix, Hobbes aimed to show that, since the High Court of Commission had been put down, there remained no court of heresy at all to which he was amenable, and that nothing could be heresy except opposing the Nicene Creed, which, he maintained, \"Leviathan\" did not do.\n\nThe only consequence that came of the bill was that Hobbes could never thereafter publish anything in England on subjects relating to human conduct. The 1668 edition of his works was printed in Amsterdam because he could not obtain the censor's licence for its publication in England. Other writings were not made public until after his death, including \"Behemoth: the History of the Causes of the Civil Wars of England and of the Counsels and Artifices by which they were carried on from the year 1640 to the year 1662\". For some time, Hobbes was not even allowed to respond, whatever his enemies tried. Despite this, his reputation abroad was formidable, and noble or learned foreigners who came to England never forgot to pay their respects to the old philosopher.\n\nHis final works were an autobiography in Latin verse in 1672, and a translation of four books of the \"Odyssey\" into \"rugged\" English rhymes that in 1673 led to a complete translation of both \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" in 1675.\n\nIn October 1679 Hobbes suffered a bladder disorder, and then a paralytic stroke, from which he died on 4 December 1679, aged 91. His last words were said to have been, \"A great leap in the dark,\" uttered in his final conscious moments. His body was interred in St John the Baptist's Church, Ault Hucknall, in Derbyshire.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20668885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20668885", "title": "Trade regulation", "text": "Trade regulation\n\nTrade regulation is a field of law, often bracketed with antitrust (as in the phrase “antitrust and trade regulation law”), including government regulation of unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive business acts or practices. Antitrust law is often considered a subset of trade regulation law. Franchise and distribution law, consumer protection law, and advertising law are sometimes considered parts of trade regulation law. \n\n"}
{"id": "23131109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23131109", "title": "Treaty of Peace and Friendship (1904)", "text": "Treaty of Peace and Friendship (1904)\n\nThe Treaty of Peace and Friendship of 1904 between Chile and Bolivia was signed in Santiago de Chile on October 20, 1904 to delineate the boundary through 96 specified points between Cerro Zapaleri and Cerro Chipe and to regulate the relations between the two countries 20 years after the end of the War of the Pacific.\n\nThe Bolivia–Chile boundary is about long and is demarcated by pillars in the Andes. Most of the boundary consists of straight lines between high mountain peaks. From the Argentina–Bolivia–Chile tripoint of Cerro Zapaleri, it extends northward through more than five degrees of latitude to the Peru–Bolivia–Chile tripoint at 17° 29' 55.0\" S. latitude and 69° 28' 28.8\" W. longitude.\n\nWhen Bolivia became independent from Spain on August 6, 1825, it took possession of the territories that corresponded to its colonial administration in accordance with the \"uti possidetis juris\" of 1810. Bolivia claimed the maritime territory westward from the Andes to the Pacific Ocean between the Río Salado on the south and the Río Loa on the north, which included part of the Atacama Desert. In 1842 Chile made claims to the desert area following the discovery and exploitation of nitrate deposits. With negotiations extending over a period of several decades, a decision was reached finally between Bolivia and Chile in a treaty dated August 10, 1866.\nArticle I of the treaty of 1866 stated that \"the line of demarcation of boundaries between Chile and Bolivia in the desert \"…shall henceforth be, the parallel of latitude 24 degrees South.\"\" On December 5, 1872, a subsequent treaty confirmed the 24th parallel as the boundary between the two states. In accordance with various other treaties, Bolivia was given an equal share of revenues from guano deposits located in Chilean territory between the 24th and 25th parallels; and Chile had the same concession in Bolivian territory between the 24th and 23rd parallels, which area included the port of Antofagasta.\n\nIn 1872, the Government of Bolivia granted a concession to a British firm to develop the nitrate deposits in Bolivian territory for a period of 15 years. The following year the secret 1873 Treaty of Defensive Alliance (Bolivia–Peru), called defensive by the signer, was signed at Lima in order to guarantee the independence, sovereignty, and integrity of their respective territories, though this treaty was kept secret and not communicated to Chile. Therefore, Chile interprets this pact as a secret alliance against them. In 1878 Bolivia placed a minimum tax on the production of the nitrate firm. In the intervening time, the concession had been transferred to a Chilean company making the leveling of the tax a violation of the treaty of 1866, in which Bolivia had agreed not to increase taxes on the industry without the approval of Chile. Chile asked Peru for a proclamation of neutrality, but as the latter did not respond Chile declared war on both Peru and Bolivia on April 5, 1879 precipitating the so-called War of the Pacific.\n\nThe Treaty of Ancón ended the conflict between Peru and Chile on October 20, 1883, and a truce was signed by Bolivia and Chile at Valparaíso on April 4, 1884. In accordance with the terms of the truce, Chile was to administer Bolivian territory from the 23rd parallel northward to the Rio Loa, thus depriving Bolivia of the northern part of the province of Antofagasta and a Pacific littoral. The eastern boundary of the territory was given as a series of straight-line segments extending northward between stated points from Cerro Zapaleri (Cerro Sapaleri) through the two thirds of the northeastern slope of Cerro Licancabur, Cerro Cabana, most southerly bay head of Salar de Ascotan, Volcan Oyahue (Volcan Ollague) and Volcan Tua, and then by the boundary between the former Peruvian province of Tarapaca and Bolivia.\n\nIn 1889, a railroad constructed inland from Antofagasta reached Uyuni on the Bolivian plateau. On May 18, 1895, a treaty signed by Chile and Bolivia confirmed the latter's loss of the territory between the 23rd parallel and the Rio Loa. A second treaty also was signed on the 18th by the two states that promised to transfer Tacna and Arica to Bolivia should Chile obtain them, or if not, the Caleta de Vitor, a small port south of Arica.\n\nOn October 20, 1904, a peace treaty between Chile and Bolivia delimited the boundary through 96 specified points between Cerro Zapaleri and Cerro Chipe. Provision was made in the treaty for demarcation and boundary pillars were erected shortly thereafter.\n\nChilean sovereignty was recognized by Bolivia over the territory from the ocean to the existing Argentine boundary between the 23rd and 24th parallels. Chile also recognized the right of Bolivia in perpetuity to commercial transit through its territory and ports, to be regulated by special agreements.\n\nThe Salas-Pinilla Protocol of 1907 made two modifications of the 1904 boundary, although ratifications of the protocol were not exchanged until 31 years later. A change was made between Cerro Chipapa and Volcan Olca in favor of Chile in order to keep the Collaguasi railroad, which connected with the Antofagasta-Uyuni railroad, entirely within Chilean territory. In return a second change transferred a small parcel of Chilean territory to Bolivia between Cerro de Patalani and Alto de Panantalla.\n\nIn 1913, a railroad was completed between Arica and La Paz, which gave Bolivia access to the Pacific Ocean by means of a second railroad.\n\nIn accordance with the terms of the Treaty of Ancón, Peru ceded unconditionally to Chile the littoral Tarapacá Province, bounded north by the Rio Camarones, south by the Rio Loa, east by Bolivia, and west by the Pacific Ocean. The provinces of Tacna and Arica, bounded north by the Rio Sama from its source in the mountains adjoining Bolivia to the sea, south by the Rio Camarones, east by Bolivia and west by the ocean, were to be administered by Chile for a 10-year period, followed by a plebiscite to determine whether these provinces would remain permanently under Chilean administration or if they would continue to be part of Peruvian territory. Efforts to reach an agreement on the terms of a plebiscite were unsuccessful, and Chile remained in possession of Tacna and Arica after\nthe expiration of the 10-year period stipulated in the Treaty of Ancón.\n\nIn a treaty signed at Lima on June 3, 1929, Article 2 delimited the international boundary dividing the disputed territory of Tacna and Arica between Peru and Chile. A complementary protocol signed on the same day stated in Article I that neither government might without previous agreement with the other cede to any third state all or any part of the territory which, in accordance with the treaty, remained under their respective sovereignties. In Article 2 of the protocol, port facilities granted to Peru under Article 5 of the treaty should consist of free transit to Peruvian territory and from such across Chilean territory. The placing of pillars marking the boundary was completed the following year and a demarcation protocol was signed at Lima on August 5, 1930.\n\nIn 1939, Chile announced a plan to divert the waters of the Rio Lauca westward through a canal and tunnel into the Quebrada Azapa for purposes of irrigation in the Valle de Azapa and hydroelectric-power generation. Within six miles of the international boundary, Lago Cotacotani is the source of the Rio Lauca which flows successively westward, southward, and eastward for about 50 miles in Chilean territory before entering Bolivia where it ultimately reaches Lago Coipasa. Construction on the project was not started until 1948, and water diversion began 14 years later from a dam located about 16 miles southwest of Lago Cotacotani. In 1962 Bolivia threatened to take the matter of water diversion before the Organization of American States (OAS) which organization ultimately requested the Governments of Bolivia and Chile to resort to one of the means of pacific settlement of disputes provided for in the inter-American system.\n\nThe Bolivia–Chile boundary extends along the spectacular heights of the Cordillera Occidental of the Andes. From 13,000 feet at the Peru tripoint, it connects with numerous snow-capped peaks exceeding 18,000 feet in elevation to the Argentina tripoint Cerro Sapaleri, at 18,530 feet. Several peaks are above 19,000 feet such as Cerro Sairecahur with an elevation of 19,587 feet. In general mountain passes are high and not easily accessible with some over 14,000 feet in elevation. Barren rocky slopes, limited areas of short grasses, and scattered mountain shrubs are typical along the boundary. Near the boundary salars or salt plains are common such as the Salar de Coipasa in Bolivia and the Salar de Ascotán in Chile.\n\nBecause of great differences in the elevation and exposure of landform features in the Andes, climatic conditions range broadly along the boundary. Characteristic of the high elevations, mean annual temperatures are relatively low and precipitation tends to be greater on the windward side than on the leeward side of the mountains. The temperatures and precipitation of enclosed valleys and plateau areas contrast greatly with the exposed peaks. Most of the high peaks are snow-capped throughout the year.\n\nIn general, the area is sparsely populated and few roads cross the boundary. Small towns serve mining companies, transportation maintenance stations, and scattered people engaged in pastoralism or limited cultivation. The principal roads crossing the boundary parallel the Arica–La Paz and Antofagasta–Uyuni railroads. A number of tracks and trails are in use locally along the boundary.\n\nThe treaty delimited the boundary from south to north through 96 specific points indicated in the text by numbers in parentheses. In accordance with the treaty of 1904, the boundary between Cerro Zapaleri (Cerro Sapaleri),\nthe Argentina tripoint, and Cerro Chipapa is as follows:\n\nThe Boliviano-Chilean protocol of 1907 modified the boundary of 1904 between Cerro Chipapa and Volcan Olca (25) and transferred a small parcel of Bolivian territory to Chile.\n\nThe boundary between Volcan Olca and Cerro de Patalani is delimited by the treaty of 1904.\n\nA second modification of the 1904 boundary made by the Boliviano-Chilean protocol of 1907 between Cerro de Patalani and Alto de Panantalla (54) transferred a small piece of Chilean territory to Bolivia\n\nThe boundary between Alto de Panantalla and the Peru tripoint is delimited by the treaty of 1904:\n\nBolivia continues to have aspirations for a territorial outlet to the Pacific Ocean. Chile has granted Bolivia duty-free use of the ports of Arica and Antofagasta and of the railroads connecting them. An agreement has not been reached by the two states relative to the diversion of water from the Rio Lauca by Chile. There seems to be no dispute with respect to the alignment of the Bolivia-Chile boundary. Diplomatic relations between Bolivia and Chile have been broken since April 1962, with a shorter period of diplomatic relations in 1975 during the Pinochet–Banzer negotiations.\n\nAfter five years of negotiation, Bolivia sought a ruling by the International Court of Justice on the matter. On October 1, 2018, the ICJ ruled against Bolivia's claim that Chile was under a \"legal obligation to negotiate a sovereign access\" to the sea for Bolivia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49409322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49409322", "title": "Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Germany)", "text": "Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Germany)\n\nTwo years after German reunification, the Commission of Inquiry for the Assessment of History and Consequences of the SED Dictatorship in Germany, which was a truth commission that lasted from 1992 to 1994, was established by the German government with the objective of looking at the history and the consequences of the former East German communist government. It released its report in 1994, but some felt that more could be investigated. This resulted in the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry on Overcoming the Consequences of the SED Dictatorship in the Process of German Unity lasting from 1995 to 1998, which had the same objective, but investigated more thoroughly.\n\nBoth commissions had to look at the dictatorship itself and the human rights violation under the rule of the East German Socialist Unity Party (SED). The second commission, however, was more focused on the effects on everyday life than on the human rights violations.\n\nThe idea of a commission was brought up by the non-governmental organization Human Rights Watch. There were many issues over racism and human rights violation after the unification in 1989, and Human Rights Watch therefore recommended the creation of a commission that would look at human rights violations in the former East Germany. In the same year the first commission was created for \"the purpose of truly unifying Germany\"\n\nAfter World War II, Germany was divided in two parts, East Germany which was called the German Democratic Republic (GDR) and was led by the Socialist Unity Party (SED), and West Germany which was called the Federal Republic of Germany and was governed by the Western Allied powers (United States, United Kingdom, France).\n\nEast Germany was a communist state under Soviet influence. The GDR claimed full employment. As Sue Lawson writes, \"even the lowest earners could manage a reasonable, if modest, standard of living. Poverty, homelessness and dependence on benefits hardly existed.\" East Germans did not worry about finding a job: \"In the old GDR you were never unemployed.\" \n\nThere was demographic issue because of the low birth rate which caused employment issues, and for that reason the GDR decided to create laws that would help parents to have children and to work at the same time. There were advantages for people who married before age thirty. They had access to interest-free loans, and the repayment of the loan would diminish every time they had a child. This led to an increase in childbirth and overall population. The status of women was valued in East Germany. Almost all women able to work could have a job at the same time as having children, though this did mean more work for many women in both employment and child care.\n\nIn time, demands in the GDR for freedom of expression, travel and assembly rose. As East Germans started to see other Eastern European communist countries throwing off Soviet control, citizens started to protest and in 1989, the peaceful revolution started. In August 1989, many East Germans tried to leave the GDR for West Germany. In September 1989, many went to Hungary because it had opened its doors to Austria, and from Austria, they could reach West Germany. Weekly demonstrations began to take place: every Monday, people would protest in the street and ask for freedom under the slogan \"Wir sind das Volk\", \"we are the people.\" In October, Erich Honecker, the leader of East Germany, had no choice but to resign. On 9 November, cabinet member Günter Schabowski announced the \"immediate freedom of travel for East German citizens\". All these protests and demonstrations led to the unification of both Germanies on 3 October 1990.\n\nWest Germany had a similar demographic problem to the one in the East, but implemented a different solution. Rather than attempting to increase birth rates, West Germany imported foreign \"guest workers.\" There was no attempt to further integrate women into the economic system. If a woman was a mother, she would work part-time or not at all. West Germany's priority was economic growth, rather than maternity and childcare, and for that reason people that were unemployed had to resort to welfare benefits.\n\nAfter the Unification, Germany realized that absorbing the GDR would be costly. East Germany was poorer than West Germany, putting strain on the finances of the new, unified government. By 1991, the government was forced to increase taxes to stem the budget deficit. Unemployment in the East Germany became a major problem and differences were more visible because the West had a lower percent of unemployment than the East. The unification also affected Europe's economy, contributing to \"a European currency crisis in 1992.\" \n\nWomen seemed to be more affected by unification and the transition than men. In the old East Germany, some women had access to \"unpaid child care leave until the child started school, and then return to a similar job.\" Once both Germanies were unified, women lost these advantages. Their economic situation was not as secure as before due to a shortage of jobs. Consequently, many women faced early retirement as they lost their former job security.\n\nIn 1992, the organization Human Rights Watch sent a mission to Germany to analyze racism and human rights violations in the country following unification. The group suggested that Germany created a truth and reconciliation commission to investigate these current problems as well as East Germany's past. As a result the Commission of Inquiry for the Assessment of History and Consequences of the SED Dictatorship in Germany was established in 1992 by the German government.\n\nThe commission was created on May 14, 1992 and released its report in June 1994. It was set up by members of the German Parliament in March 1992. In the early 1990s, all archives of the GDR as well as the SED were made available to scholars. When the commission began, the commissioners had access to all the records that could be found.\n\nThe commission had 27 members, led by the East German parliamentarian and human rights activist Rainer Eppelmann. Other members included Markus Meckel, Gerd Poppe, Dr. Dorothea Wils, Dirk Hansen, and Dr. Dietman Keller.\n\nGermany established a truth commission as a result of ongoing social tensions and problems affecting the country, in hopes that it would be a solution. Additionally, many Germans wanted answers about the SED dictatorship and the effects it had on \"the possibilities of political and moral rehabilitation of the victims.\" The German government and parliament also felt strongly about the commission, believing that it was essential to unify Germany. Instead of retributive justice, the German Parliament opted for a focus on restorative justice because of ongoing social problems, aiming at non-violent reconciliation of those problems.\n\nThe mandate had two main objectives. The first was to help the victims of the GDR and the SED. The second was about reconciliation. Germany needed to be reconciled with its past so it needed to develop a common political culture. To do so, the commission had to look at human rights violations. It had to examine every aspect of the dictatorship, how it functioned, what was its ideology and theology, what responsibilities it had for human rights violations, and what role it played in the destruction of the environment. The commission also had to investigate which groups were oppressed and to think about ways they could give restitution to these oppressed groups. The commission needed to look at the opposition in East Germany and its actions, as well as the role of the Lutheran Church. The influences of \"international framework conditions\" (more precisely, Soviet politics), needed to be investigated, as did the relation between both Germanies. The commission's mandate included research covering the years from 1945 until 1989.\n\nThe commission also needed to include scholarly expertise, public hearings and forums, as well as discussion with citizens.\n\nThe commission's recommendations included: \n\nThe most notable impact the first commission had was the establishment of a subsequent commission to further investigate matters that the first one had not addressed. Parliament opted to wait for the report of the second commission before taking any decisions on the recommendations of the first commission.\n\n\"However, a great deal of criticism was voiced by victims of the GDR dictatorship that the support rendered by the state came late, was too limited, and did not cover all groups of victims.\" There were also some victims that talked about victors' justice. For example, \"At the universities, a comprehensive screening took place. Many professors and lecturers were dismissed on the basis of Stasi documents and other evidence showing that they had worked as informers for the Stasi or were SED members. There were number of protests by the accused and their supporters who felt that these dismissals were unjust and constituted revenge.\" Media also criticized without knowing the facts. The commission was accused of being useless because it did not change anything. It was also criticized for the length of the report, which totalled 18 volumes.\n\nThe second commission ran from July 1995 to June 1998, and focused primarily on aspects of the mandate that had not been examined by the earlier commission. Rainer Eppelmann stayed on as chairman of the commission, but the number of commissioners increased to 36, who were later divided into 9 groups. All commissioners were chosen by the German parliament.\n\nThe second commission followed the same mandate as the first, but focused more on aspects of everyday life under the SED dictatorship, such as discrimination against women, education and economic effects. The mandate also analyzed social effects, science and culture in East Germany as well as unified Germany, focusing on both past and present.\n\nThe recommendations from the second commission were essentially the same as the first , but also added the need to educate the people about their past. Discarding the call for this to be done through a dedicated foundation, commissioners suggested that people could learn about their past in schools instead. They called again for a permanent and independent foundation that would follow up the recommendations, investigate the past, preserve the commission's archives, and provide assistance to the victims of the SED.\nAs opposed to the first commission, this one convinced parliament and the government to create the independent foundation that would, in a sense, continue the work of both commissions. This foundation was called the \"Stiftung zur Aufarbeitung der SED-Diktatur\" (Foundation for the Reappraisal of the SED Dictatorship). It was created on 5 June 1998. There was also a memorial built in Berlin. Another foundation was created and named \"Hohenschönhausen\". The mandate of this foundation was to investigate history and to educate the public about it. In 2007, there a law passed to give reparations to persons that were prisoners during the SED dictatorship.\n\nThe Stiftung zur Aufarbeitung der SED-Diktatur helped creating the law to give reparation to the victims of the SED. They expanded the reparations to victims other than just political prisoners.\n\n"}
{"id": "2530126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530126", "title": "Turbary", "text": "Turbary\n\nTurbary is the ancient right to cut turf, or peat, for fuel on a particular area of bog. The word may also be used to describe the associated piece of bog or peatland and, by extension, the material extracted from the turbary. Turbary rights, which are more fully expressed legally as \"common of turbary\", are often associated with commonage, or, in some cases, rights over another person's land.\n\nTurbary was not always an unpaid right (easement), but, at least in Ireland, regulations governed the price that could be charged.\n\nTurf was widely used as fuel for cooking and domestic heating but also for commercial purposes such as evaporating brine to produce salt. The right to take peat was particularly important in areas where firewood was scarce. The right to collect firewood was protected by estovers.\n\nIn the New Forest of southern England, a particular right of turbary belongs not to an individual person, dwelling or plot of land, but to a particular hearth and chimney.\n\nIn more recent times, as the ecological significance of the bog lands has been better understood, and as the amount of remaining peat has been decreasing, partly due to fuel usage and partly due to usage of peat as fertiliser, as well as agricultural incursions into drained bog lands, some of the remaining bogs have come under environmental protection. This has created controversy over the rights of turbary, and in some cases extinguished the right.\n\nGeographic regions of turbary works in Europe include the Netherlands, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, and The Broads in Norfolk and Suffolk, England, and the Audomarois marshlands near Saint-Omer, France The term is also used in colloquial language by older generations in Ireland, in places such as County Clare, to refer to the area where turf is cut, or to the material extracted.\n\nThe word is derived from Anglo-French \"turberie\" and Low German, \"turf\". Compare Sanskrit \"darbhá\", meaning tuft of grass.\n"}
{"id": "41827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41827", "title": "Turnkey", "text": "Turnkey\n\nTurnkey or a turnkey project (also spelled turn-key) is a type of project that is constructed so that it can be sold to any buyer as a completed product. This is contrasted with build to order, where the constructor builds an item to the buyer's exact specifications, or when an incomplete product is sold with the assumption that the buyer would complete it.\n\nA turnkey project or contract as described by Duncan Wallace (1984) is:\nA turnkey computer system is a complete computer including hardware, operating system and application(s) designed and sold to satisfy specific business requirements.\n\nTurnkey refers to something that is ready for immediate use, generally used in the sale or supply of goods or services. The word is a reference to the fact that the customer, upon receiving the product, just needs to turn the ignition key to make it operational, or that the key just needs to be turned over to the customer. Turnkey is often used to describe a home built on the developer's land with the developer's financing ready for the customer to move in. If a contractor builds a \"turnkey home\" they frame the structure and finish the interior. Everything is completed down to the cabinets and carpet. \"Turnkey\" is commonly used in the construction industry, for instance, in which it refers to the bundling of materials and labour by Home Builder or General Contractor to move into the home without owner involvement. 'Turnkey' is also commonly used in motorsports to describe a car being sold with drivetrain (engine, transmission, etc.) to contrast with a vehicle sold without one so that other components may be re-used.\n\nSimilarly, this term may be used to advertise the sale of an established business, including all the equipment necessary to run it, or by a business-to-business supplier providing complete packages for business start-up. An example would be the creation of a \"turnkey hospital\" which would be building a complete medical centre with installed medical equipment.\n\nThe term turnkey is also often used in the technology industry, most commonly to describe pre-built computer \"packages\" in which everything needed to perform a certain type of task (e.g. audio editing) is put together by the supplier and sold as a bundle. This often includes a computer with pre-installed software, various types of hardware, and accessories. Such packages are commonly called appliances. A website with a ready-made solutions and some configurations is called a turnkey website.\n\nIn real estate, turnkey is defined as a home or property that is ready for occupation for its intended purpose, ie., a home that is fully functional, needs no upgrading or repairs (move-in ready). In commercial use, a building set up to do auto repairs would be defined as turnkey if it came fully stocked with all needed machinery and tools for that particular trade. The turnkey process includes all of the steps involved to open a location including the site selection, negotiations, space planning, construction coordination and complete installation. Turnkey real estate also refers to a type of investment. This process includes the purchase, construction or rehab (of an existing site), the leasing out to tenants, and then the sale of the property to a buyer. The buyer is purchasing an investment property which is producing a stream of income.\n\nIn drilling, the term indicates an arrangement where a contractor must fully complete a well up to some milestone to receive any payment (in exchange for greater compensation upon completion).\n\n"}
{"id": "35527856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35527856", "title": "UK immigration enforcement", "text": "UK immigration enforcement\n\nSince the creation of modern immigration controls in 1905, foreign nationals evading immigration control or committing crimes were regarded as a police matter and those people arrested were put before the courts whereupon they would be prosecuted and go through the deportation process. The United Kingdom Immigration Service's enforcement arm evolved gradually from the early 1970s onwards to meet demand from police for assistance in dealing with foreign national offenders and suspected immigration offenders within the UK. The wider history of UK immigration control is dealt with under UK immigration control - history.\n\nThe Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962 placed new restrictions on British Commonwealth citizens entering the UK and was seen as severe at the time. While it allowed conditions to be imposed on those previously allowed free entry it provided no powers concerning those who evaded the border controls altogether.\n\"\"A person shall not be required to submit to examination ... after the expiration of the period of twenty-four hours from the time when he lands in the United Kingdom. …\" (Para 2 Sch1, Commonwealth Citizens Act 1962).\n\nThis was partially addressed by the 1968 Act after which Commonwealth citizens were required by law to submit to immigration control on arrival. However, for those that evaded the border controls, the law stipulated that there were only 28 days in which to apprehend them. In the event of their being captured the person was awarded an in-country right of appeal that would mean they could not immediately be removed.\n\nThe 1971 Act removed the 28-day limit and created a right of appeal that could only be exercised from abroad. It also attempted to define the concept of illegal entry but it was only by testing the law through various judgements and challenges that the principle was established that someone arriving illegally did not have to go through the judicial process and deportation consideration, they could be \"administratively\" removed on the direction of an immigration officer acting on the authority of the Secretary of State. The evidence of the need for new powers was provided in a parliamentary question from 1972 which gave the bald facts that 13 people had been successfully prosecuted in the previous 12 months for facilitating illegal entry and 10 people had been treated as illegal entrants. Following the passage of the Immigration Act 1971, action to detect immigration offenders in the community was still considered a police matter and largely limited to the detection of seamen deserters, absconders from ports or those who were the subject of deportation orders. The powers in the 1971 Act focussed on the offences of overstaying and assumed that those who did so would be prosecuted and deported. Although it defined what an illegal entrant was, it did not provide sufficient clarity as to how the law should be applied. The concept of illegal entry as laid out in the 1971 Act did not extend to those who simply presented false documents or deceived the immigration officer on arrival about what they were going to do. It was only by establishing legal precedent through judgments’ that a consistent set of powers emerged.\n\nControl of immigration in the UK was, until the 1980s almost exclusively focussed on border control. The law regarding the treatment of immigration offenders within the UK was unclear and would not start being resolved until the mid-1970s. Efforts made to extend controls at the border contrasted sharply with the lack of powers to deal with those who evaded them. The Labour government of 1974-79 maintained a policy of opposing internal immigration controls in favour of putting more resource into the border control and visa offices abroad.\n\nThe police who dealt with foreign nationals acted according to whether the person had been posted \"wanted\" or not and were reliant on Home Office records of who had overstayed. The police set up their own Immigration Intelligence Unit in October 1972. The Immigration Act prosecutions recorded at the time are then police prosecutions rather than Immigration Service ones. The police enjoyed some success in this work but a clear need emerged for the Immigration Service and police to cooperate and immigration enforcement offices evolved in the early 1970s to meet this need.\n\nAfter the new Act came into force in 1973 more effort was directed to the detection and removal of illegal entrants. The Act was based on a concept of illegal entry which assumed illegal entry via clandestine landings. This had some basis in fact given the incentive within the 1962 Act to enter this way but even with the new laws it was a slow start; the total number of illegal entrants, overstayers and seamen deserters detected and removed in 1973 was reported as 44 but, in 1977, when answering a question on the numbers of deportees in 1973 the minister stated that 147 had been removed. Early immigration enforcement statistics are difficult to interpret as the terms \"illegal entrant\" and \"illegal migrant\" seem to have been used interchangeably and, at various times, encompassed overstayers, deportees AND illegal entrants which are all different types of offender in later reports. The lack of a cohesive enforcement structure must have played a part in this confusion but, overall, the numbers of enforced removals were very small.\n\nEnforcement work was carried out by Immigration Officers who were otherwise normally engaged on passport controls at ports. In London, the main enforcement offices were based at Harmondsworth near Heathrow and at Adelaide House, London Bridge. Duties at the Port of London included, for instance, dealing with passengers and crew, interviewing foreign criminals in London prisons, attending court and a range of visits to private addresses to talk to people about their status or circumstances. Later in the 1970s Immigration Officers were diverted to interview people in relation to their applications made under the amnesties of the time.\n\nThe other main London enforcement unit, based at Harmondsworth near Heathrow Airport, was the Immigration Service Intelligence Unit which, by 1976, had 29 officers, responsible for managing the Immigration Service Intelligence database and a remit of assisting the police. By 1980 major operations were possible and were being mounted with particular emphasis on the hotel and restaurant trade.\n\nEnforcement work became increasingly diverse and relatively more sophisticated during the 1980s. The London offices developed specialist teams targeting foreign vice trade workers, marriage fraud and West Indian gang crime. The central London office worked closely with police to play a key role in the detention and removal of a number of high profile \"Yardies\" and other criminals associated with Jamaican drug crime. Combatting bogus colleges, (already noted above), was also an ongoing theme in enforcement work with some particular successes, including the closure of the \"Advanced College of Business and Cultural Studies\" where 63 people were arrested. Another regular source of work was the \"marriage visit\" to a home address to test whether the relationship was a Sham marriage. Marriage abuse was, and is, an embedded feature of immigration enforcement work and the Enforcement Directorate sought to combat it directly by allowing specialist teams to develop. \"Operation Goldring\" was a long running exercise operated by a central London unit at Isis House in the late 1980s early 1990s.\n\nIn 1992, the Immigration Service was split to form separate Ports and Enforcement Directorates. The split did not immediately solve the issue of those \"hybrid\" ports which dealt with both areas of work.By later standards enforcement immigration officers were severely constrained. Lack of radio or telephone communications meant that they were heavily reliant on police support. Although immigration officers were conferred powers of arrest under the 1971 Act they did not use these as a matter of policy and they were reliant of police officers and police facilities to perform their duties. When conducting pro-active investigations to private addresses immigration officers would take the lead in identifying immigration offenders and ask police to execute the arrest on their behalf.\n\nThose offenders thus detected would be interviewed at a police station under caution. A large proportion of available resource was dedicated to responding to police requests for assistance. By 1989 the two main London offices at Isis House and ISIU Harmondsworth were responding to thousands of calls per year. The central London identified 1,402 offenders as a result of police call-outs in 1989 and ISIU 1,230.\n\nIn 1993 when a Jamaican woman Joy Gardner resisted having a deportation order enforced by an immigration officer and police in London, she died of suffocation after being gagged and having her head wrapped with tape. The incident and its subsequent investigation halted most pro-active immigration enforcement for a substantial period and was the cause of a reappraisal by police of their role in immigration enforcement which had far-reaching implications. The Metropolitan Police, and other forces, were concerned at the potential damage done to community trust and confidence. The police insisted on new safeguards and processes to better communicate the nature of joint operations and assess risks. Although police assistance continued to be the norm it was the beginning of a shift towards greater self-reliance by immigration enforcement.\n\nIn the 1990s there was a rapid increase in the numbers of immigration offenders claiming asylum shortly after arrest. Senior police officers expressed concern at the escalating use of police stations as places where immigration offenders were required to report having been released.\n\nIn 1993 asylum seekers were given the right of appeal before removal as part of the Immigration and Asylum Appeals Act 1993. The numbers of asylum applications began to rise. In 1993, 120 immigration officers undertook the enforcement work for the whole of the UK. It was recognised that to create an effective in-country control would require a raft of new legislation and a vast expansion of detention facilities and enforcement immigration officers. In 1992 Home Secretary, Kenneth Baker ruled out wider internal immigration controls.\n\nThe exact numbers claiming asylum when detected were not recorded, but the numbers who had to be released after detection rather than removed from the UK are available. Between 1994 and 1996 there is shown a rising trend in detection of illegal entrants but the numbers released on Temporary Admission increased steadily. People without legal qualification could function as immigration legal advisors; legal aid was available for immigration cases. Legal aid costs rose dramatically between 1988 and 1992 as did the numbers of applications for judicial review. By 1997 25% of all judicial reviews lodged were related to immigration cases.\n\nGrowing numbers of those detected were found working illegally, 10,000 in 1994 as opposed to fewer than 4,000 in 1988. Until 1997 it was illegal to undertake paid work only if employment was prohibited as a condition of entry; people who had entered illegally were not subject to this restriction, although they would if detected be arrested as illegal entrants. There was no sanction on employers employing an illegal entrant.\n\nSection 8 of the Asylum Act of 1996 made it an offence to employ an illegal worker, with a potential fine of £5,000. Very few employers prosecuted were prosecuted.\n\nThe collapse of a Home Office IT project in 1999 had the effect of stopping the essential casework machinery that supported enforced removals. As part of the general restructuring that the crisis provoked the Immigration Service was again divided into two different management structures. The previous Ports Directorate and Enforcement Directorate were done away with and the service was partially regionalised under the command of \"Immigration Service Regional Operations\" and \"Immigration Service SE Operations\".\n\nIND in Croydon, which had built up long-standing processes to liaise with prisons, courts and the Immigration Service in arranging the deportation of those who had been recommended for deportation by courts or whose removal was \"conducive to the public good\". However, by 1999 the processes for dealing with foreign criminals held within UK prisons awaiting deportation were under pressure. \nFor enforcement offices, casework backlogs increased. By 2000 tentative steps were being taken to re-establish processes that had been removed. Despite the crisis within asylum casework, changes included modernisation and the continuation of vital longer term strategic planning including the development of professional management skills and project management, the development of prosecutions capability, joint working with other agencies, the growth in numbers and prosecutions capability for arrest trained officers, (including use of the new powers contained in the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 which allowed the confiscation of the criminal assets of traffickers, among others). The development of better IT systems continued. Neither did the hiatus stop the increasingly useful liaison work with police in combating organised crime. The disruption of West Indian organised or semi-organised crime continued to be a theme of immigration enforcement work with particular success in the early 2000s in dealing with Yardies. Immigration enforcement forged a close partnership with police and played an important role in the ongoing operation to combat black-on-black crime, Operation Trident which started in 1998.\n\nNew efforts to increase enforcement resources had yet to kick in and the mechanisms to support the casework in difficult removal cases was still being re-established. Despite this there were signs of progress. An additional London office had been established in Croydon and removals of immigration offenders showed a marginal increase. An ambitious plan unfolded following the commitments made as part of the 1999 legislation. In 2000 a pilot in London established the Immigration Service’s first arrest team which was set up trained and equipped to operate independently of the police. By the end of the pilot three London Arrest Teams had been established and had conducted 413 operations.\n\nIn a 2001 report the Home Affairs Select Committee welcomed a commitment to increase enforcement staff but was sceptical regarding the ambitious target for enforced removals. The numbers of enforcement staff had risen from 1,677 in 2002 to 2,463 in 2003. A reorganisation of enforcement resulted in the setting up of a number of \"co-located\" offices. These were enforcement units that drew in a support network of mainstream IND caseworkers whose role was to deal with \"barrier\" casework, i.e.: the vital casework to deal with late applications to stay in the UK, Judicial Reviews and appeals which were part and parcel of the legal hurdles placed by legal advisors seeking to block someones removal. The results of the co-locations were disappointing but the principle was one that stuck and evolved later in the development of regionalisation and the setting up of Local Immigration Teams.\n\nThe \"Developing Enforcement Capabilities\" project grew in size, scope and importance between 2000–2004 and transformed the Immigration Service enforcement arm into a law enforcement agency. The establishment of the arrest teams went hand in hand with a new system of tasking based on a National Intelligence Model to make best use of information and ensure that the work was better tied to national targets. By 2003 there were forty new Intelligence Units in operation and the level and standard of training for operational staff had been greatly enhanced.\n\nOver and above the formation of the arrest teams whose remit was the detection of immigration offenders, was the establishment, in January 2002, of an Immigration Crime Team to tackle organised immigration related crime such as identity fraud, forgery and trafficking. Early successes included the arrest of 29 persons connected with British passport fraud and the arrest of two men for the manufacture and supply of forged British passports one of whom received a five-year sentence and the other 18 months. The operation resulted in one of the largest ever seizures of high quality forged passports believed to have a street value of over £2 million.\n\nThe ICT operated as part of Reflex, the Government's inter-agency task force created to combat organised immigration crime. Immigration enforcement also contributed to a joint intelligence unit under Operation Maxim involving the Immigration Service and UK Passport Service (UKPS) with a remit to investigate identity fraud alongside related criminality. In 2001 the numbers of fraudulent British passport applications detected was 161. In 2002 it was 1360. The ICT also contributed to Operation Wisdom, targeting individuals who obtained passports using the identities of dead children which was co-ordinated by the National Crime Squad and involved 18 UK police forces and the Immigration Service. In 2003-04 ICT made 115 arrests related to organised crime.\n\nIn February 2004 at least 23 Chinese nationals were drowned in an horrific disaster at Morecambe Bay, Lancashire when cut off by tides while cockling – digging for cockles. This tragedy, and crime, was the result of a number of factors; the fact that the people had been trafficked by \"Snakeheads\" and then used for illegal labour by a Gangmaster who had no regard for their safety, (and who was subsequently jailed).\n\nIn the subsequent investigation and enquiry there was much confusion as to whether the Immigration Service had been aware of the illegal workers at Morecambe bay and might have prevented their exploitation and deaths. This confusion was embarrassing and highlighted the lack of management information systems to record the nature of operations conducted. The operational side of IND had been largely left out of the IT development that took place after the failure of the Casework Programme and the tragedy was the cause of a review of systems and processes and quickly led to the introduction, in April 2005, of a new National Operations Database, (NOD), developed by enforcement staff themselves, to better manage and record operational activity.\n\nThe Morecambe Bay disaster highlighted facts that were already well known, that large numbers of illegal workers were being exploited, and was a key element leading to the passing of the Gangmasters (Licensing) Act 2004 and the creation of the Gangmasters Licensing Authority.\n\nThe Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 required registrars of civil marriages to report suspected sham marriages to the Home Secretary. Unfortunately it did not contain any power to carry out investigations into the genuineness of an intended marriage or to delay or refuse to conduct the marriage.\nBy the early 2000s the numbers of suspect marriages being reported by registrars rose alarmingly. In response to registrars' concerns and media coverage of the issue, the Government established a \"Bogus Marriage Task Force\" in 2004 which included representatives from the Immigration Service, local government, the registration service and IND policy officials. This proposed a new scheme to govern marriages where one or both parties were subject to immigration control and did not have entry clearance as a spouse or fiancé(e). The scheme was enacted in section 19 of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc.) Act 2004 and came into force on 1 February 2005.\nAn exemption for Church of England marriages was to be part of the legislation's downfall but, when the new provisions came into force, the London Borough of Brent experienced a drop of 50% in the overall number of marriages taking place. The numbers of reports from all registrars of suspicious marriages dropped from 3,740 in 2004 to fewer than 200 between February 2005 and March 2006.\n\nIn 2003/04, in the London area alone, there were 114 people arrested in connection with taking part in or arranging sham marriages. These operations were led, and co-ordinated by Officers from the London Command Crime Group who were solely responsible for the disruption of illegal marriages in the London and South East area. Of these 43 people were charged and given custodial sentences of up to 18 months. The offences ranged from: Conspiracy to commit perjury; Facilitation offences under the Immigration Act 1971; Bigamy offences under the Offences against the Person Act 1861 and Forgery and Counterfeiting offences. During 2004-05, 100 people were arrested of whom 59 were charged and received sentences from three months to nine years.\n\nThe new laws was challenged by The Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants,(JCWI), who argued that the new requirements were in breach of the right to marry contained in Article 12 of European Convention of Human Rights; a \"disproportionate and ineffective response to the alleged problem of 'sham' marriages\"; and potentially discriminatory on faith grounds. The Courts agreed and the law was repealed.\n\nThe growth in enforcement resources, the increase in removals and the focus on illegal workers are all illustrated by the rise in illegal working operations between 2004 and 2006. In 2004 there were 1,600 enforcement operations against illegal workers, a 360% increase on the previous year, which detected 3,330 people working illegally. In a parliamentary reply in 2009 the Home Secretary reported that, in 2005/06, there had been 2915 operations targeting illegal workers which resulted in 3819 arrests. By 2007/08 this had risen to 7178 operations and 5589 arrests.\n\nThe failure of the 1999 Act to impose fines on employers for using illegal workers was now addressed by the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 which created a new Civil penalty for employers who hired illegal workers,(Section 15), and separate criminal offence of knowingly employing an illegal worker, (Section 21). The rules imposed much stricter rules than the 1999 legislation as to the level of evidence that employers needed to keep regarding proof of employment rights and carried a potential £10,000 fine for each illegal employee. The Act came into force on 29 February 2008.\n\nIn April 1996, the total percentage of prisoners who were foreign nationals had reached 7.8%. By 1999 it was 8.1%, 2002, 10% and in 2003, 12%. These percentages have to be seen in the context of a rising prison population.\n\nBy 2006, the foreign prisoner population had peaked at 14% and, at the time of writing in 2011, the figure has dropped slightly to 12.8%. \n\nThe criminal deportation process is different from that action taken against illegal entrants and is based on some of the oldest immigration legislation. It is a process for dealing with those who have broken the criminal law and, before Court Recommended deportation was discontinued, could be thought of as falling into two main areas:\n\nCourt recommendations for deportation meant that the person had a right of appeal against this part of the sentence that might have to be disposed of before any further action could be taken. If the court did not recommend deportation it was still possible for deportation to be taken on \"conducive\" grounds, (see above). Whatever route was chosen full consideration had to be given of the persons other circumstances - such as family ties and length of residence.\n\nTracking the prisoner through the criminal justice system was a difficult task. A well established system was dismantled in 1999 during the failed IT project noted earlier. This instability coincided not only with a steep rise in the numbers of foreign prisoners as described above, but also with the growth of asylum applications. All available IND resources were diverted to deal with the asylum backlog and the Criminal Casework Team that was gradually re-formed after the Casework Programme crisis, was left under staffed.\n\nAn additional factor, which proved fatal, was the lack of centrally available data on either the numbers of prisoners or the stage their case had reached. The development of IT systems within IND focussed almost entirely on asylum. The Case Information Database, (CID), which was hurriedly rolled out in the wake of the Casework Programme failure did not cater properly for either deportation or other casework relating to immigration offenders and prosecutions. Within a very short time of its development the organisation was dependent on CID for its management information but, because of its limitations, IND’s senior managers were left unsighted to the full implications of the rise in the numbers of foreign criminals.\n\nOn 14 July 2005, the National Audit Office published a report concerning the removal of asylum seekers.It reported that;\n\nThis triggered a chain of events which involved the Public Accounts Committee asking for further clarification. IND had difficulty answering the questions relating to the numbers involved and had to revise the figure upwards on more than one occasion, which undermined its credibility. It emerged, by April 2006, that 1023 foreign prisoners had been released at the end of their sentence between 1999 and 2006 without deportation consideration having been completed.\n\nBy May, it was confirmed that 880 of the cases had been considered for deportation but it was too little too late and the Home Secretary Charles Clarke resigned. On 23 May 2006 the new Home Secretary John Reid stated to the Home Affairs Committee:\n\nIn the aftermath of the scandal the trigger point at which foreign nationals would be considered for deportation was reduced from two years imprisonment to twelve months and plans were put in place to introduce \"automatic deportation\".\nFollowing an investigation into the background to the problem the Enforcement & Removals Directorate was broken up for the second time in seven years and its resources distributed among a network of new regional Local Immigration Teams. Its central management support functions were disbanded.\n\nMost people removed or deported from within the UK are not convicted criminals but immigration offenders; those who have for instance overstayed their visa or have been found to have entered the country illegally. These are not usually deported but made subject to administrative removal under powers found within Section 10 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 and Schedule 2 of the Immigration Act 1971. Where a person is removed from the UK, they can still make an application to return to the UK, but under new immigration rules introduced in October 2008, a person who has been removed from the UK may not apply for a visa for a period of 1,5 or 10 years, depending on whether they voluntarily left or were removed.\n\nDeportation is the lawful expulsion of an undesirable alien, usually following a criminal conviction but also in cases where there are grounds \"conducive to the public good\". Section 5 of the Immigration Act 1971—provides the power for the Secretary of State to make or revoke a deportation order (DO). This requires a person to leave the UK and prohibits them from re-entering the UK unless it is revoked. Any leave to enter or remain which a person gains is invalid whilst a DO is outstanding against them. There is no expiry date to a DO. A person who enters the UK in breach of a DO is an illegal entrant (see below) and may be removed as such.\nDeportation Orders were once always signed by the Home Secretary but are now more commonly signed by a senior official. They place a bar on return to the UK for lengths of time which vary according to the severity of the offence. Deportation Orders stay in force until revoked.\n\nSection 32 of the UK Borders Act 2007 places a duty on the Secretary of State to make a deportation order in respect of a person who is not a British citizen who has been convicted in the UK of an offence and sentenced to either: \nThis duty applies to all foreign criminals except where they fall within one of the exceptions in section 33. Where an exception does apply, deportation may still be pursued.\n\nSection 33 of the Act details those who are exempt from the provisions of automatic deportation. There are certain exemptions: \n\nIllegal entrants fall into a number of types:\n\nThose absconding from port arrival areas are also technically illegally entrants but, when detected, may be dealt with under port arrival procedures for administrative convenience. Those returning to the UK in breach of an existing deportation order are also treated as illegal entrants.\n\nThe powers to remove illegal entrants are found in paragraphs 9 or 10 of schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971. These enable an Immigration Officer to give any directions for removal as are authorised in paragraph 8 of schedule 2 to the 1971 Act.\n\nA series of court judgements in the late 1970s and early 1980s clarified some aspects of the law regarding illegal entry. The definition of what constituted illegal entry was gradually extended to include entry by deception. These included the Zamir judgement, which concerned a person who obtained a visa to join his father as his dependant while omitting to mention that he was married. The judgement held that people applying to come to the UK had a \"duty of candour\" to reveal any factors relevant to their stay. The House of Lords later changed its mind and it was not until 1983, with the Khawaja judgement, that a settled definition of illegal entry by deception came about.\n\nThe case of Norman (Court of Appeal 1985) established that a person who sought entry as a visitor when his true intention was to claim asylum was an illegal entrant. Had the Immigration Officer known on arrival that asylum was intended, then he would not have granted entry as a visitor.\n\nOverstayers are those who stay beyond the time limit imposed on them when they enter the country. Those detected are removed under administrative powers found in Section 10 of the 1999 Immigration and Asylum Act.\n\nOverstayers were, until the end of the 1990s, treated as potential deportees – a cumbersome administrative process which involved a written submission to the Home Secretary in each case. Until the mid-1980s there were attempts to prosecute overstayers but this was seen to be both expensive in terms of court time and of little deterrence value as well as further delaying the persons departure. A further difficulty was the interpretation of the law by the courts which held that an overstayer had to be detected within three years and proof had to be offered that the person knew that they had overstayed. This was later overturned by the 1988 Act.\n\nThe process by which overstayers were detected before 1998 was ostensibly based on the system of landing and embarkation cards. Landing cards were, and are, completed by arriving foreign nationals, (not EU nationals). A small percentage of arriving passengers had their arrival conditions recorded for later embarkation checks. These were placed on conditional \"coded\" landing by the immigration officer on arrival and would be required to fill out an embarkation card on departure. These cards were tallied by a small army of junior clerical staff in the Croydon HQ and those who had no \"pair\" could be assumed not to have left. In practice, the value of the cards as a clear indicator that a person had overstayed was limited and its value as a trigger for pro-active investigations was questionable. Embarkation controls were ended in 1998 at a time when savings had to be found. The landing card did though often contain a useful written record of the person intentions on arrival and evidence of their inbound carrier who would be liable to pay for their return trip. Overstayers were most likely to emerge in the course of other enquiries or as part of a police investigation. Assisting police to establish nationality of arrestees was, and is, a major part of immigration enforcement work.\n\nThe investigation of bogus marriages was, especially during the 1980s and 1990s, a bread-and-butter activity for Immigration Service enforcement. There were occasional operations to stop marriages at Registry Offices where firm intelligence suggested a fraud but the majority of this work was conducted at residential addresses at the behest of IND caseworkers who referred applications for further checks. Immigration Officers would visit the marital address and assess whether there was evidence that the marriage was genuine and subsisting and not a \"marriage of convenience\". Officers would assess the domestic setting and draw obvious conclusions where there was only evidence of one person living there. That might conclude matters but, in cases of doubt, the couple would be interviewed in detail and asked questions regarding their domestic life together and the history of their relationship. Some marriage visits did not fall into this category and were altogether sadder. It was common for immigration offices to receive letters, particularly from young Anglo-Asian women, asking for help to prevent a forced marriage. The ability of immigration officers to provide help in these scenarios was fatally limited by the fear the women had of the consequences of presenting evidence in a public immigration appeals hearing. Some protection was eventually provided by the Forced Marriage (Civil Protection) Act 2007.\n\nThe information available to the Immigration Service regarding bogus marriages was hindered by the proper concerns that registrars had of breaching confidentiality. The 1999 Asylum and Immigration Act introduced new powers for registrars’ to demand that both partners attend in person to give notice, provide proof of identity and a declaration of nationality. Under the terms of the Act registrars had a duty to report to the Home Office any marriage that they have reasonable grounds for suspecting to be a sham marriage.\n\nAlthough the Act required registrars of civil marriages to report suspected sham marriages to the Home Office it did not contain any power to carry out investigations into the genuineness of an intended marriage or to delay or refuse to conduct the marriage.\nMarriage enquiries continued to be part of the general remit of operational enforcement but the numbers of enquiries possible became less as the focus was put on tracing failed asylum seekers and illegal workers. It remained a background issues rather than a primary concern with relatively little information gathered regarding success and failure. At one point a Home Office minister even denied that it was his responsibility.\n\nSection 24(5) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 provides the following definition:\n\"Sham marriage\" means a marriage (whether or not void) –\n\nWorking practice for enforcement immigration officers is based on the fact they are seeking to arrest or detain people who are already in the UK and have committed indictable offences. People arrested under immigration law are treated in the same way as those arrested by police for other offences. They are subject to the provisions of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 and, when arrested, are usually interviewed under caution in a police station and may have access to legal representation. The major exception to the foregoing is in the case of known immigration offenders, e.g.: absconders, who may simply be re-detained under powers contained in Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971. Although immigration offenders may, in theory, be prosecuted for illegal entry or overstaying it is usual practice to seek to remove the person from the UK as quickly as possible.\n\nImmigration enforcement has, during the 2000s and after, undergone a long process of reform where immigration staff have been trained and equipped to perform their own arrests rather than rely on police support. Not all enforcement work is based on visiting addresses to arrest or detain suspects; much effort is dedicated to attending police stations and interviewing suspected offenders who have been arrested by police.\n\nWhere private addresses are visited in an effort to trace offenders officers generally seek to gain the cooperation of those present but do have certain powers of entry and may obtain warrants to search premises. Enforcement visits are intelligence led and must, in accordance with agreements with police, be risk assessed.\n\nThe aim of the investigation is to prove the offence of illegal entry or overstaying and the aim of most searches is to seek evidence of the person’s identity and immigration status to establish when, where and how they entered the UK. Where interviews at ports of entry are based on the idea of establishing a person’s credibility on a balance of probabilities, the aim of the enforcement immigration officer is to prove an offence has been committed at a certain point in time, at a certain place and to a high degree of probability. Having successfully completed an investigation the officer will refer the case to a Chief Immigration Officer or above who will take note of any compassionate circumstances and, if authorised, serve formal notice on the person that they are an offender and are liable to be detained. Where there are no barriers to removal, e.g., outstanding criminal matters or other legal barriers, the person is taken to an immigration removal centre and arrangements made for their departure. In practice there are a multitude of potential obstacles to removing a person from the UK which may include outstanding applications or appeals, legal representations and lack of essential documentation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1075686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1075686", "title": "United States labor law", "text": "United States labor law\n\nUnited States labor law sets the rights and duties for employees, labor unions, and employers in the United States. Labor law's basic aim is to remedy the \"inequality of bargaining power\" between employees and employers, especially employers \"organized in the corporate or other forms of ownership association\". Over the 20th century, federal law created minimum social and economic rights, and encouraged state laws to go beyond the minimum to favor employees. The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 requires a federal minimum wage, currently $7.25 but higher in 28 states, and discourages working weeks over 40 hours through time-and-a-half overtime pay. There are no federal or state laws requiring paid holidays or paid family leave: the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 creates a limited right to 12 weeks of unpaid leave in larger employers. There is no automatic right to an occupational pension beyond federally guaranteed social security, but the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 requires standards of prudent management and good governance if employers agree to provide pensions, health plans or other benefits. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 requires employees have a safe system of work.\n\nA contract of employment can always create better terms than statutory minimum rights. But to increase their bargaining power to get better terms, employees organize labor unions for collective bargaining. The Clayton Act of 1914 guarantees all people the right to organize, and the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 creates rights for most employees to organize without detriment through unfair labor practices. Under the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959, labor union governance follows democratic principles. If a majority of employees in a workplace support a union, employing entities have a duty to bargain in good faith. Unions can take collective action to defend their interests, including withdrawing their labor on strike. There are not yet general rights to directly participate in enterprise governance, but many employees and unions have experimented with securing influence through pension funds, and representation on corporate boards.\n\nSince the Civil Rights Act of 1964, all employing entities and labor unions have a duty to treat employees equally, without discrimination based on \"race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.\" There are separate rules for sex discrimination in pay under the Equal Pay Act of 1963. Additional groups with \"protected status\" were added by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. There is no federal law banning all sexual orientation or identity discrimination, but 22 states had passed laws by 2016. These equality laws generally prevent discrimination in hiring, terms of employment, and make discharge because of a protected characteristic unlawful. There is no federal law against unjust discharge, and most states also have no law with full protection against wrongful termination of employment. Collective agreements made by labor unions and some individual contracts require people are only discharged for a \"just cause\". The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1988 requires employing entities give 60 days notice if more than 50 or one third of the workforce may lose their jobs. Federal law has aimed to reach full employment through monetary policy and spending on infrastructure. Trade policy has attempted to put labor rights in international agreements, to ensure open markets in a global economy do not undermine fair and full employment.\n\nModern US labor law mostly comes from statutes passed between 1935 and 1974, and changing interpretations of the US Supreme Court. However, laws regulated the rights of people at work and employers from colonial times on. Before the Declaration of Independence in 1776, the common law was either uncertain or hostile to labor rights. Unions were classed as conspiracies, and potentially criminal. It tolerated slavery and indentured servitude. From the Pequot War in Connecticut from 1636 onwards, Native Americans were enslaved by European settlers. More than half of the European immigrants arrived as prisoners, or in indentured servitude, where they were not free to leave their employers until a debt bond had been repaid. Until its abolition, the Atlantic slave trade brought millions of Africans to do forced labor in the Americas. However, in 1772, the English Court of King's Bench held in \"Somerset v Stewart\" that slavery was to be presumed unlawful at common law. Charles Stewart from Boston, Massachusetts had bought James Somerset as a slave and taken him to England. With the help of abolitionists, Somerset escaped and sued for a writ of \"habeas corpus\" (that \"holding his body\" had been unlawful). Lord Mansfield, after declaring he should \"let justice be done whatever be the consequence\", held that slavery was \"so odious\" that nobody could take \"a slave by force to be sold\" for any \"reason whatever\". This was a major grievance of southern slave owning states, leading up to the American Revolution in 1776. The 1790 United States Census recorded 694,280 slaves (17.8 per cent) of a total 3,893,635 population. After independence, the British Empire halted the Atlantic slave trade in 1807, and abolished slavery in its own territories, by paying off slave owners in 1833. In the US, northern states progressively abolished slavery. However, southern states did not. In \"Dred Scott v Sandford\" the Supreme Court held the federal government could not regulate slavery, and also that people who were slaves had no legal rights in court. The American Civil War was the result. President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation in 1863 made abolition of slavery a war aim, and the Thirteenth Amendment of 1865 enshrined the abolition of most forms of slavery in the Constitution. Former slave owners were further prevented from holding people in involuntary servitude for debt by the Peonage Act of 1867. In 1868, the Fourteenth Amendment ensured equal access to justice, and the Fifteenth Amendment required that everyone would have the right to vote. The Civil Rights Act of 1875 was also meant to ensure equality in access to housing and transport, but in the \"Civil Rights Cases\", the Supreme Court found it was \"unconstitutional\", ensuring that racial segregation would continue. In dissent, Harlan J said the majority was leaving people \"practically at the mercy of corporations\". Even if people were formally free, they remained factually dependent on property owners for work, income and basic services.\nLike slavery, common law repression of labor unions was slow to be undone. In 1806, \"Commonwealth v Pullis\" held that a Philadelphia shoemakers union striking for higher wages was an illegal \"conspiracy\", even though corporations - combinations of employers - were lawful. Unions still formed and acted. The first federation of unions, the National Trades Union was established in 1834 to achieve a 10 hour working day, but it did not survive the soaring unemployment from the financial Panic of 1837. In 1842, \"Commonwealth v Hunt\", held that \"Pullis\" was wrong, after the Boston Journeymen Bootmakers’ Society struck for higher wages. The first instance judge said unions would \"render property insecure, and make it the spoil of the multitude, would annihilate property, and involve society in a common ruin\". But in the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, Shaw CJ held people \"are free to work for whom they please, or not to work, if they so prefer\" and could \"agree together to exercise their own acknowledged rights, in such a manner as best to subserve their own interests.\" This stopped criminal cases, although civil cases persisted. In 1869 an organisation called the Knights of Labor was founded by Philadelphia artisans, joined by miners 1874, and urban tradesmen from 1879. It aimed for racial and gender equality, political education and cooperative enterprise, yet it supported the Alien Contract Labor Law of 1885 which suppressed workers migrating to the US under a contract of employment. Industrial conflicts on railroads and telegraphs from 1883 led to the foundation of the American Federation of Labor in 1886, with the simple aim of improving workers wages, housing and job security \"here and now\". It also aimed to be the sole federation, to create a strong, unified labor movement. Business reacted with litigation. The Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, which was intended to sanction business cartels acting in restraint of trade, was applied to labor unions. In 1895, the US Supreme Court in \"In re Debs\" affirmed an injunction, based on the Sherman Act, against the striking workers of the Pullman Company. The strike leader Eugene Debs was put in prison. In notable dissent among the judiciary, Holmes J argued in \"Vegelahn v Guntner\" that any union taking collective action in good faith was lawful: even if strikes caused economic loss, this was equally legitimate as economic loss from corporations competing with one another. Holmes J was elevated to the US Supreme Court, but was again in a minority on labor rights. In 1905, \"Lochner v New York\" held that New York limiting bakers' working day to 60 hours a week violated employers' freedom of contract. The Supreme Court majority supposedly unearthed this \"right\" in the Fourteenth Amendment, that no State should \"deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.\" With Harlan J, Holmes J dissented, arguing that the \"constitution is not intended to embody a particular economic theory\" but is \"made for people of fundamentally differing views\". On questions of social and economic policy, courts should never declare legislation \"unconstitutional\". The Supreme Court, however, accelerated its attack on labor in \"Loewe v. Lawlor\", holding that triple damages were payable by a striking union to its employers under the Sherman Act of 1890. This line of cases was finally quashed by the Clayton Act of 1914 §6. This removed labor from antitrust law, affirming that the \"labor of a human being is not a commodity or article of commerce\" and nothing \"in the antitrust laws\" would forbid the operation of labor organizations \"for the purposes of mutual help\".\nThroughout the early 20th century, states enacted labor rights to advance social and economic progress. But despite the Clayton Act, and abuses of employers documented by the \"Commission on Industrial Relations\" from 1915, the Supreme Court struck labor rights down as unconstitutional, leaving management powers virtually unaccountable. In this \"Lochner era\", the Courts held that employers could force workers to not belong to labor unions, that a minimum wage for women and children was void, that states could not ban employment agencies charging fees for work, that workers could not strike in solidarity with colleagues of other firms, and even that the federal government could not ban child labor. It also imprisoned socialist activists, who opposed the fighting in World War One, meaning that Eugene Debs ran as the Socialist Party's candidate for President in 1920 from prison. Critically, the courts held state and federal attempts to create social security to be unconstitutional. Because they were unable to save in safe public pensions, millions of people bought shares in corporations, causing massive growth in the stock market. Because the Supreme Court precluded regulation for good information on what people were buying, corporate promoters tricked people into paying more than stocks were really worth. The Wall Street Crash of 1929 wiped out millions of people's savings. Business lost investment and fired millions of workers. Unemployed people had less to spend with businesses. Business fired more people. There was a downward spiral into the Great Depression. This led to the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt for President in 1932, who promised a \"New Deal\". Government committed to create full employment and a system of social and economic rights enshrined in federal law. But despite the Democratic Party's overwhelming electoral victory, the Supreme Court continued to strike down legislation, particularly the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933, which regulated enterprise in an attempt to ensure fair wages and prevent unfair competition. Finally, after Roosevelt's second overwhelming victory in 1936, and Roosevelt's threat to create more judicial positions if his laws were not upheld, one Supreme Court judge switched positions. In \"West Coast Hotel Co v Parrish\" the Supreme Court found that minimum wage legislation was constitutional, letting the New Deal go on. In labor law, the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 guaranteed every employee the right to unionize, collectively bargain for fair wages, and take collective action, including in solidarity with employees of other firms. The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 created the right to a minimum wage, and time-and-a-half overtime pay if employers asked people to work over 40 hours a week. The Social Security Act of 1935 gave everyone the right to a basic pension and to receive insurance if they were unemployed, while the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ensured buyers of securities on the stock market had good information. The Davis–Bacon Act of 1931 and Walsh–Healey Public Contracts Act of 1936 required that in federal government contracts, all employers would pay their workers fair wages, beyond the minimum, at prevailing local rates. To reach full employment and out of depression, the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935 enabled the federal government to spend huge sums of money on building and creating jobs. This accelerated as World War Two began. In 1944, his health waning, Roosevelt urged Congress to work towards a \"Second Bill of Rights\" through legislative action, because \"unless there is security here at home there cannot be lasting peace in the world\" and \"we shall have yielded to the spirit of Fascism here at home.\"\nAlthough the New Deal had created a minimum safety net of labor rights, and aimed to enable fair pay through collective bargaining, a Republican dominated Congress revolted when Roosevelt passed away. Against the veto of President Truman, the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 limited the right of labor unions to take solidarity action, and enabled states to ban unions requiring all people in a workplace becoming union members. A series of Supreme Court decisions, held the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 not only created minimum standards, but stopped or \"preempted\" states enabling better union rights, even though there was no such provision in the statute. Labor unions became extensively regulated by the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959. Post-war prosperity had raised people's living standards, but most workers who had no union, or job security rights remained vulnerable to unemployment. As well as the crisis triggered by \"Brown v Board of Education\", and the need to dismantle segregation, job losses in agriculture, particularly among African Americans was a major reason for the civil rights movement, culminating in the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom led by Martin Luther King Jr.. Although Roosevelt's Executive Order 8802 of 1941 had prohibited racial discrimination in the national defense industry, people still suffered discrimination because of their skin color across other workplaces. Also, despite the increasing numbers of women in work, sex discrimination was endemic. The government of John F. Kennedy introduced the Equal Pay Act of 1963, requiring equal pay for women and men. Lyndon B. Johnson introduced the Civil Rights Act of 1964, finally prohibiting discrimination against people for \"race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.\" Slowly, a new generation of equal rights laws spread. At federal level, this included the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, now overseen by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.\nAlthough people, in limited fields, could claim to be equally treated, the mechanisms for fair pay and treatment were dismantled after the 1970s. The last major labor law statute, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 created rights to well regulated occupational pensions, although only where an employer had already promised to provide one: this usually depended on collective bargaining by unions. But in 1976, the Supreme Court in \"Buckley v Valeo\" held anyone could spend unlimited amounts of money on political campaigns, apparently as a part of the First Amendment right to \"freedom of speech\". From this point, big business was able to lobby all politicians to stop any further progression of labor rights. After the Republican President Reagan took office in 1981, he dismissed all air traffic control staff who went on strike for fair wages, and replaced the National Labor Relations Board members with pro-management men. Dominated by Republican appointees, the Supreme Court suppressed labor rights, removing rights of professors, religious school teachers, or undocumented migrants to organize in a union, allowing employees to be searched at work, and eliminating employee rights to sue for medical malpractice in their own health care. Only limited statutory changes were made. The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 criminalized large numbers of migrants. The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1988 guaranteed workers some notice before a mass termination of their jobs. The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 guaranteed a right to just 12 weeks leave to take care for children after birth, all unpaid. The Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996 cut the minimum wage, by enabling employers to take the tips of their staff to subsidize the minimum wage. A series of proposals by Democrat and independent politicians to advance labor rights were not enacted, and the United States began to fall behind all other developed countries in labor rights, with stagnating real income growth, and lower human development, lower life expectancy, and higher poverty.\n\nContracts between employees and employers (mostly corporations) usually begin an employment relationship, but are often not enough for a decent livelihood. Because individuals lack bargaining power, especially against wealthy corporations, labor law creates legal rights that override unjust market outcomes. Historically, the law faithfully enforced property rights and freedom of contract on any terms, even if this was inefficient, exploitative and unjust. In the early 20th century, as more people favored the introduction of democratically determined economic and social rights over rights of property and contract in unequal markets, state and federal governments introduced law reform. First, the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 created a minimum wage (now $7.25 at federal level, higher in 28 states) and overtime pay of one and a half times. Second, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 creates very limited rights to take unpaid leave. In practice, good employment contracts improve on these minimums. Third, while there is no right to an occupational pension or other benefits, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ensures employers guarantee those benefits if they are promised. Fourth, the Occupational Safety and Health Act 1970 demands a safe system of work, backed by professional inspectors. Individual states are often empowered to go beyond the federal minimum, and function as laboratories of democracy in social and economic rights, where they have not been constrained by the US Supreme Court.\n\nCommon law, state and federal statutes usually confer labor rights on \"employees\", but not people who are autonomous and have sufficient bargaining power to be \"independent contractors\". In 1994, the \"\" recommended a unified definition of an employee under all federal labor laws, to reduce litigation, but this was not implemented. As it stands, Supreme Court cases have stated various general principles, which will apply according to the context and purpose of the statute in question. In \"NLRB v Hearst Publications, Inc\", newsboys who sold newspapers in Los Angeles claimed that they were \"employees\", so that they had a right to collectively bargain under the National Labor Relations Act of 1935. The newspaper corporations argued the newsboys were \"independent contractors\", and they were under no duty to bargain in good faith. The Supreme Court held the newsboys were employees, and common law tests of employment, particularly the summary in the Restatement of the Law of Agency, Second §220, were no longer appropriate. They were not \"independent contractors\" because of the degree of control employers had. But the National Labor Relations Board could decide itself who was covered if it had \"a reasonable basis in law.\" Congress reacted, first, by explicitly amending the NLRA §2(1) so that independent contractors were exempt from the law while, second, disapproving that the common law was irrelevant. At the same time, the Supreme Court decided \"United States v Silk\", holding that \"economic reality\" must be taken into account when deciding who is an employee under the Social Security Act of 1935. This meant a group of coal loaders were employees, having regard to their economic position, including their lack of bargaining power, the degree of discretion and control, and the risk they assumed compared to the coal businesses they worked for. By contrast, the Supreme Court found truckers who owned their own trucks, and provided services to a carrier company, were independent contractors. Thus, it is now accepted that multiple factors of traditional common law tests may not be replaced if a statute gives no further definition of \"employee\" (as is usual, e.g., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993). Alongside the purpose of labor legislation to mitigate inequality of bargaining power and redress the economic reality of a worker's position, the multiple factors found in the Restatement of Agency must be considered, though none is necessarily decisive.\nCommon law agency tests of who is an \"employee\" take account of an employer's control, if the employee is in a distinct business, degree of direction, skill, who supplies tools, length of employment, method of payment, the regular business of the employer, what the parties believe, and whether the employer has a business. Some statutes also make specific exclusions that reflect the common law, such as for independent contractors, and others make additional exceptions. In particular, the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 §2(11) exempts supervisors with \"authority, in the interest of the employer\", to exercise discretion over other employees' jobs and terms. This was originally a narrow exception. Controversially, in \"NLRB v Yeshiva University\", a 5 to 4 majority of the Supreme Court held that full time professors in a university were excluded from collective bargaining rights, on the theory that they exercised \"managerial\" discretion in academic matters. The dissenting judges pointed out that management was actually in the hands of university administration, not professors. In \"NLRB v Kentucky River Community Care Inc\", the Supreme Court held, again 5 to 4, that six registered nurses who exercised supervisory status over others fell into the \"professional\" exemption. Stevens J, for the dissent, argued that if \"the 'supervisor' is construed too broadly\", without regard to the Act's purpose, protection \"is effectively nullified\". Similarly, under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, in \"Christopher v SmithKline Beecham Corp\", the Supreme Court held 5 to 4 that a traveling medical salesman for GSK of four years was an \"outside salesman\", and so could not claim overtime. People working unlawfully are often regarded as covered, so as not to encourage employers to exploit vulnerable employees. For instance in \"Lemmerman v AT Williams Oil Co\", under the North Carolina Workers' Compensation Act an eight-year-old boy was protected as an employee, even though children working under the age of 8 was unlawful. However, in \"Hoffman Plastic Compounds v NLRB\", the Supreme Court held 5 to 4 that an undocumented worker could not claim back pay, after being discharged for organizing in a union. The gradual withdrawal of more and more people from the scope of labor law, by a slim majority of the Supreme Court since 1976, means that the US falls below international law standards, and standards in other democratic countries, on core labor rights, including freedom of association.\nCommon law tests were often important for determining who was, not just an employee, but the relevant employers who had \"vicarious liability\". Potentially there can be multiple, joint-employers could who share responsibility, although responsibility in tort law can exist regardless of an employment relationship. In \"Ruiz v Shell Oil Co\", the Fifth Circuit held that it was relevant which employer had more control, whose work was being performed, whether there were agreements in place, who provided tools, had a right to discharge the employee, or had the obligation to pay. In \"Local 217, Hotel & Restaurant Employees Union v MHM Inc\" the question arose under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1988 whether a subsidiary or parent corporation was responsible to notify employees that the hotel would close. The Second Circuit held the subsidiary was the employer, although the trial court had found the parent responsible while noting the subsidiary would be the employer under the NLRA. Under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 USC §203(r), any \"enterprise\" that is under common control will count as the employing entity. Other statutes do not explicitly adopt this approach, although the NLRB has found an enterprise to be an employer if it has \"substantially identical management, business purpose, operation, equipment, customers and supervision.\" In \"South Prairie Construction Co v Local No 627\", the Supreme Court found that the DC Circuit had legitimately identified two corporations as a single employer given that they had a \"very substantial qualitative degree of centralized control of labor\", but that further determination of the relevant bargaining unit should have been remitted to the NLRB. When employees are hired through an agency, it is likely that the end-employer will be considered responsible for statutory rights in most cases, although the agency may be regarded as a joint employer.\n\nWhen people start work, there will almost always be a contract of employment that governs the relationship of employee and the employing entity (usually a corporation, but occasionally a human being). A \"contract\" is an agreement enforceable in law. Very often it can be written down, or signed, but an oral agreement is also a fully enforceable contract. Based on the reasoning that the party with less bargaining power benefits from having the range of acceptable contracts limited to a set that has been vetted to exclude allegedly exploitative terms, and the fact that employees have unequal bargaining power to almost all employing entities, most employment contracts are \"standard form\". Most terms and conditions are photocopied or reproduced for many people. Genuine negotiation is rare, unlike in commercial transactions between two business corporations. This has been the main justification for enactment of rights in federal and state law. The federal right to collective bargaining, by a labor union elected by its employees, is meant to reduce the inherently unequal bargaining power of individuals against organizations to make collective agreements. The federal right to a minimum wage, and increased overtime pay for working over 40 hours a week, was designed to ensure a \"minimum standard of living necessary for health, efficiency, and general well-being of workers\", even when a person could not get a high enough wage by individual bargaining. These and other rights, including family leave, rights against discrimination, or basic job security standards, were designed by the United States Congress and state legislatures to replace individual contract provisions. Statutory rights override even an express written term of a contract, usually unless the contract is more beneficial to an employee. Some federal statutes also envisage that state law rights can improve upon minimum rights. For example, the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 entitles states and municipalities to set minimum wages beyond the federal minimum. By contrast, other statutes such as the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, have been interpreted in a series of contentious judgments by the US Supreme Court to \"preempt\" state law enactments. These interpretations have had the effect to \"stay experimentation in things social and economic\" and stop states wanting to \"serve as a laboratory\" by improving labor rights. Where minimum rights do not exist in federal or state statutes, principles of contract law, and potentially torts, will apply.\nAside from terms in oral or written agreements, terms can be incorporated by reference. Two main sources are collective agreements and company handbooks. In \"JI Case Co v National Labor Relations Board\" an employing corporation argued it should not have to bargain in good faith with a labor union, and did not commit an unfair labor practice by refusing, because it had recently signed individual contracts with its employees. The US Supreme Court held unanimously that the \"very purpose\" of collective bargaining and the National Labor Relations Act 1935 was \"to supersede the terms of separate agreements of employees with terms which reflect the strength and bargaining power and serve the welfare of the group\". Terms of collective agreements, to the advantage of individual employees, therefore supersede individual contracts. Similarly, if a written contract states that employees do not have rights, but an employee has been told they do by a supervisor, or rights are assured in a company handbook, they will usually have a claim. For example, in \"Torosyan v Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc\" the Supreme Court of Connecticut held that a promise in a handbook that an employee could be dismissed only for a good reason (or \"just cause\") was binding on the employing corporation. Furthermore, an employer had no right to unilaterally change the terms. Most other state courts have reached the same conclusion, that contracts cannot be altered, except for employees' benefit, without new consideration and true agreement. By contrast, a slight majority on the California Supreme Court, appointed by Republican governors, held in \"Asmus v Pacific Bell\" that a company policy of indefinite duration can be altered after a reasonable time with reasonable notice, if it affects no vested benefits. The four dissenting judges, appointed by Democratic governors, held this was a \"patently unfair, indeed unconscionable, result – permitting an employer that made a promise of continuing job security... to repudiate that promise with impunity several years later\". In addition, a basic term of good faith which cannot be waived, is implied by common law or equity in all states. This usually demands, as a general principle that \"neither party shall do anything, which will have the effect of destroying or injuring the right of the other party, to receive the fruits of the contract\". The term of good faith persists throughout the employment relationship. It has not yet been used extensively by state courts, compared to other jurisdictions. The Montana Supreme Court has recognized that extensive and even punitive damages could be available for breach of an employee's reasonable expectations. However others, such as the California Supreme Court limit any recovery of damages to contract breaches, but not damages regarding the manner of termination. By contrast, in the United Kingdom the requirement for \"good faith\" has been found to limit the power of discharge except for fair reasons (but not to conflict with statute), in Canada it may limit unjust discharge also for self-employed persons, and in Germany it can preclude the payment of wages significantly below average.\n\nFinally, it was traditionally thought that arbitration clauses could not displace any employment rights, and therefore limit access to justice in public courts. However, in \"14 Penn Plaza LLC v. Pyett\", in a 5 to 4 decision under the Federal Arbitration Act of 1925, individual employment contract arbitration clauses are to be enforced according to their terms. The four dissenting judges argued that this would eliminate rights in a way that the law never intended.\n\nWhile contracts often determine wages and terms of employment, the law refuses to enforce contracts that do not observe basic standards of fairness for employees. Today, the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 aims to create a national minimum wage, and a voice at work, especially through collective bargaining should achieve fair wages. A growing body of law also regulates executive pay, although a system of \"maximum wage\" regulation, for instance by the former Stabilization Act of 1942, is not currently in force. Historically, the law actually suppressed wages, not of the highly paid, by ordinary workers. For example, in 1641 the Massachusetts Bay Colony legislature (dominated by property owners and the official church) required wage reductions, and said rising wages \"tende to the ruin of the Churches and the Commonwealth\". In the early 20th century, democratic opinion demanded everyone had a minimum wage, and could bargain for fair wages beyond the minimum. But when states tried to introduce new laws, the US Supreme Court held them unconstitutional. A right to freedom of contract, argued a majority, could be construed from the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment's protection against being deprived \"of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law\". Dissenting judges argued that \"due process\" did not affect the legislative power to create social or economic rights, because employees \"are not upon a full level of equality of choice with their employer\".\nAfter the Wall Street Crash, and the New Deal with the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the majority in the US Supreme Court was changed. In \"West Coast Hotel Co v Parrish\" Hughes CJ held (over four dissenters still arguing for Freedom of Contract) that a Washington law setting minimum wages for women was constitutional because the state legislatures should be enabled to adopt legislation in the public interest. This ended the \"\"Lochner\" era\", and Congress enacted the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Under §202(a) the federal minimum wage aims to ensure a \"standard of living necessary for health, efficiency and general well being\". Under §207(a)(1), most employees (but with many exceptions) working over 40 hours a week must receive 50 per cent more overtime pay on their hourly wage. Nobody may pay lower than the minimum wage, but under §218(a) states and municipal governments may enact higher wages. This is frequently done to reflect local productivity and requirements for decent living in each region. However the federal minimum wage has no automatic mechanism to update with inflation. Because the Republican Party has opposed raising wages, the federal real minimum wage is over 33 per cent lower today than in 1968, among the lowest in the industrialized world.\nAlthough there is a federal minimum wage, it has been restricted in (1) the scope of who it covers, (2) the time that counts to calculate the hourly minimum wage, and (3) the amount that employers' can take from their employees' tips or deduct for expenses. First, five US Supreme Court judges held in \"Alden v Maine\" that the federal minimum wage cannot be enforced for employees of state governments, unless the state has consented, because that would violate the Eleventh Amendment. Souter J, joined by three dissenting justices, held that no such \"sovereign immunity\" existed in the Eleventh Amendment. Twenty-eight states, however, did have minimum wage laws higher than the federal level in 2016. Further, because the US Constitution, article one, section 8, clause 3 only allows the federal government to \"regulate Commerce... among the several States\", employees of any \"enterprise\" under $500,000 making goods or services that do not enter commerce are not covered: they must rely on state minimum wage laws. FLSA 1938 §203(s) explicitly exempts establishments whose only employees are close family members. Under §213 the minimum wage may not be paid to 18 categories of employee, and paying overtime to 30 categories of employee. This include under §213(a)(1) employees of \"\"bona fide\" executive, administrative, or professional capacity\". In \"Auer v Robbins\" police sergeants and lieutenants at the St Louis Police Department, Missouri claimed they should not be classed as executives or professional employees, and should get overtime pay. Scalia J held that, following Department of Labor guidance, the St Louis police commissioners were entitled to exempt them. This has encouraged employers to attempt to define staff as more \"senior\" and make them work longer hours while avoiding overtime pay. Another exemption in §213(a)(15) is for people \"employed in domestic service employment to provide companionship services\". In \"Long Island Care at Home Ltd v Coke\", a corporation claimed exemption, although Breyer J for a unanimous court agreed with the Department of Labor that it was only intended for carers in private homes.\nSecond, because §206(a)(1)(C) says the minimum wage is $7.25 per hour, courts have grappled with which hours count as \"working\". Early cases established that time traveling to work did not count as work, unless it was controlled by, required by, and for the benefit of an employer, like traveling through a coal mine. For example, in, \"Anderson v Mount Clemens Pottery Co\" a majority of five to two justices held that employees had to be paid for the long walk to work through an employer's Mount Clemens Pottery Co facility. According to Murphy J this time, and time setting up workstations, involved \"exertion of a physical nature, controlled or required by the employer and pursued necessarily and primarily for the employer's benefit.\" In \"Armour & Co v Wantock\" firefighters claimed they should be fully paid while on call at their station for fires. The Supreme Court held that, even though the firefighters could sleep or play cards, because \"[r]eadiness to serve may be hired quite as much as service itself\" and time waiting on call was \"a benefit to the employer\". By contrast, in 1992 the Sixth Circuit controversially held that needing to be infrequently available by phone or pager, where movement was not restricted, was not working time. Time spent doing unusual cleaning, for instance showering off toxic substances, does count as working time, and so does time putting on special protective gear. Under §207(e) pay for overtime should be one and a half times the regular pay. In \"Walling v Helmerich and Payne Inc\", the Supreme Court held that an employer's scheme of paying lower wages in the morning, and higher wages in the afternoon, to argue that overtime only needed to be calculated on top of (lower) morning wages was unlawful. Overtime has to be calculated based on the average regular pay. However, in \"Christensen v Harris County\" six Supreme Court judges held that police in Harris County, Texas could be forced to use up their accumulated \"compensatory time\" (allowing time off with full pay) before claiming overtime. Writing for the dissent, Stevens J said the majority had misconstrued §207(o)(2), which requires an \"agreement\" between employers, unions or employees on the applicable rules, and the Texas police had not agreed. Third, §203(m) allows employers to deduct sums from wages for food or housing that is \"customarily furnished\" for employees. The Secretary of Labor may determine what counts as fair value. Most problematically, outside states that have banned the practice, they may deduct money from a \"tipped employee\" for money over the \"cash wage required to be paid such an employee on August 20, 1996\" – and this was $2.13 per hour. If an employee does not earn enough in tips, the employer must still pay the $7.25 minimum wage. But this means in many states tips do not go to workers: tips are taken by employers to subsidize low pay. Under FLSA 1938 §216(b)-(c) the Secretary of State can enforce the law, or individuals can claim on their own behalf. Federal enforcement is rare, so most employees are successful if they are in a labor union. The Consumer Credit Protection Act of 1968 limits deductions or \"garnishments\" by employers to 25 per cent of wages, though many states are considerably more protective. Finally, under the Portal to Portal Act of 1947, where Congress limited the minimum wage laws in a range of ways, §254 puts a two-year time limit on enforcing claims, or three years if an employing entity is guilty of a willful violation.\n\nPeople in the United States work among the longest hours per week in the industrialized world, and have the least annual leave. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 article 24 states: \"Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.\" However, there is no general federal or state legislation requiring paid annual leave. Title 5 of the United States Code §6103 specifies ten public holidays for federal government employees, and provides that holidays will be paid. Many states do the same, however, no state law requires private sector employers to provide paid holidays. Many private employers follow the norms of federal and state government, but the right to annual leave, if any, will depend upon collective agreements and individual employment contracts. State law proposals have been made to introduce paid annual leave. A 2014 Washington Bill from United States House of Representatives member Gael Tarleton would have required a minimum of 3 weeks of paid holidays each year to employees in businesses of over 20 staff, after 3 years work. Under the International Labour Organization Holidays with Pay Convention 1970 three weeks is the bare minimum. The Bill did not receive enough votes. By contrast, employees in all European Union countries have the right to at least 4 weeks (i.e. 28 days) of paid annual leave each year. Furthermore, there is no federal or state law on limits to the length of the working week. Instead, the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 §207 creates a financial disincentive to longer working hours. Under the heading \"Maximum hours\", §207 states that time and a half pay must be given to employees working more than 40 hours in a week. It does not, however, set an actual limit, and there are at least 30 exceptions for categories of employee which do not receive overtime pay. Shorter working time was one of the labor movement's original demands. From the first decades of the 20th century, collective bargaining produced the practice of having, and the word for, a two-day \"weekend\". State legislation to limit working time was, however, suppressed by the US Supreme Court in \"Lochner v New York\". The New York State Legislature had passed the Bakeshop Act of 1895, which limited work in bakeries to 10 hours a day or 60 hours a week, to improve health, safety and people's living conditions. After being prosecuted for making his staff work longer in his Utica, Mr Lochner claimed that the law violated the Fourteenth Amendment on \"due process\". Despite the dissent of four judges, a majority of five judges held that the law was unconstitutional. The whole \"Lochner\" era of jurisprudence was reversed by the US Supreme Court in 1937, but experimentation to improve working time rights, and \"work-life balance\" has not yet recovered.\nJust as there are no rights to paid annual leave or maximum hours, there are no rights to paid time off for child care or family leave in federal law. There are minimal rights in some states. Most collective agreements, and many individual contracts, provide paid time off, but employees who lack bargaining power will often get none. There are, however, limited federal rights to unpaid leave for family and medical reasons. The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 generally applies to employers of 50 or more employees in 20 weeks of the last year, and gives rights to employees who have worked over 12 months and 1250 hours in the last year. Employees can have up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for child birth, adoption, to care for a close relative in poor health, or because of an employee's own poor health. Child care leave should be taken in one lump, unless agreed otherwise. Employees must give notice of 30 days to employers if birth or adoption is \"foreseeable\", and for serious health conditions if practicable. Treatments should be arranged \"so as not to disrupt unduly the operations of the employer\" according to medical advice. Employers must provide benefits during the unpaid leave. Under §2652(b) states are empowered to provide \"greater family or medical leave rights\". In 2016 California, New Jersey, Rhode Island and New York had laws for paid family leave rights. Under §2612(2)(A) an employer can make an employee substitute the right to 12 unpaid weeks of leave for \"accrued paid vacation leave, personal leave or family leave\" in an employer's personnel policy. Originally the Department of Labor had a penalty to make employers notify employees that this might happen. However, five judges in the US Supreme Court in \"Ragsdale v Wolverine World Wide, Inc\" held that the statute precluded the right of the Department of Labor to do so. Four dissenting judges would have held that nothing prevented the rule, and it was the Department of Labor's job to enforce the law. After unpaid leave, an employee generally has the right to return to his or her job, except for employees who are in the top 10% of highest paid and the employer can argue refusal \"is necessary to prevent substantial and grievous economic injury to the operations of the employer.\" Employees or the Secretary of Labor can bring enforcement actions, but there is no right to a jury for reinstatement claims. Employees can seek damages for lost wages and benefits, or the cost of child care, plus an equal amount of liquidated damages unless an employer can show it acted in good faith and reasonable cause to believe it was not breaking the law. There is a two-year limit on bringing claims, or three years for willful violations. Despite the lack of rights to leave, there is no right to free child care or day care. This has encouraged several proposals to create a public system of free child care, or for the government to subsize parents' costs.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the possibility of having a \"retirement\" became real as people lived longer, and believed the elderly should not have to work or rely on charity until they died. The law maintains an income in retirement in three ways (1) through public social security created by the Social Security Act of 1935, (2) occupational pensions managed through the employment relationship, and (3) private pensions or life insurance that individuals buy themselves. At work, most occupational pension schemes originally resulted from collective bargaining during the 1920s and 1930s. Unions usually bargained for employers across a sector to pool funds, so that employees could keep their pensions if they moved jobs. Multi-employer retirement plans, set up by collective agreement became known as \"Taft-Hartley plans\" after the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 required joint management of funds by employees and employers. Many employers also voluntarily choose to provide pensions. For example, the pension for professors, now called TIAA, was established on the initiative of Andrew Carnegie in 1918 with the express requirement for participants to have voting rights for the plan trustees. These could be collective and defined benefit schemes: a percentage of one's income (e.g. 67%) is replaced for retirement, however long the person lives. But more recently more employers have only provided individual \"401(k)\" plans. These are named after the Internal Revenue Code §401(k), which allows employers and employees to pay no tax on money that is saved in the fund, until an employee retires. The same tax deferral rule applies to all pensions. But unlike a \"defined benefit\" plan, a 401(k) only contains whatever the employer and employee contribute. It will run out if a person lives too long, meaning the retiree may only have minimum social security. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 §902 codified a model for employers to automatically enroll their employees in a pension, with a right to opt out. However, there is no right to an occupational pension. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 does create a series of rights for employees if one is set up. It also applies to health care or any other \"employee benefit\" plan.\nFive main rights for beneficiaries in ERISA 1974 include information, funding, vesting, anti-discrimination, and fiduciary duties. First, each beneficiary should receive a \"summary plan description\" in 90 days of joining, plans must file annual reports with the Secretary of Labor, and if beneficiaries make claims any refusal must be justified with a \"full and fair review\". If the \"summary plan description\" is more beneficial than the actual plan documents, because the pension fund makes a mistake, a beneficiary may enforce the terms of either. If an employer has pension or other plans, all employees must be entitled to participate after at longest 12 months, if working over 1000 hours. Second, all promises must be funded in advance. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation was established by the federal government to be an insurer of last resort, but only up to $60,136 per year for each employer. Third, employees' benefits usually cannot be taken away (they \"vest\") after 5 years, and contributions must accrue (i.e. the employee owns contributions) at a proportionate rate. If employers and pension funds merge, there can be no reduction in benefits, and if an employee goes bankrupt their creditors cannot take their occupational pension. However, the US Supreme Court has enabled benefits to be withdrawn by employers simply amending plans. In \"Lockheed Corp v Spink\" a majority of seven judges held that an employer could alter a plan, to deprive a 61-year-old man of full benefits when he was reemployed, unbound by fiduciary duties to preserve what an employee had originally been promised. In dissent, Breyer J and Souter J reserved any view on such \"highly technical, important matters\". Steps to terminate a plan depend on whether it is individual, or multi-employer, and \"Mead Corp v Tilley\" a majority of the US Supreme Court held that employers could recoup excess benefits paid into pension plans after PBGC conditions are fulfilled. Stevens J, dissenting, contended that all contingent and future liabilities must be satisfied. Fourth, as a general principle, employees or beneficiaries cannot suffer any discrimination or detriment for \"the attainment of any right\" under a plan. Fifth, managers are bound by responsibilities of competence and loyalty, called \"fiduciary duties\". Under §1102, a fiduciary is anyone who administers a plan, its trustees, and investment managers who are delegated control. Under §1104, fiduciaries must follow a \"prudent\" person standard, involving three main components. First, a fiduciary must act \"in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the plan\". Second, they must act with \"care, skill and diligence\", including \"diversifying the investments of the plan\" to \"minimize the risk of large losses\". Liability for carelessness extends to making misleading statements about benefits, and have been interpreted by the Department of Labor to involve a duty to vote on proxies when corporate stocks are purchased, and publicizing a statement of investment policy. Third, and codifying fundamental equitable principles, a fiduciary must avoid any possibility of a conflict of interest. He or she must act \"solely in the interest of the participants... for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits\" with \"reasonable expenses\", and specifically avoiding self-dealing with a related \"party in interest\". For example, in \"Donovan v Bierwirth\", the Second Circuit held that trustees of a pension which owned shares in the employees' company as a takeover bid was launched, because they faced a potential conflict of interest, had to get independent legal advice on how to vote, or possibly abstain. Remedies for these duties have, however, been restricted by the Supreme Court to disfavor damages. In these fields, according to §1144, ERISA 1974 will \"supersede any and all State laws insofar as they may now or hereafter relate to any employee benefit plan\". ERISA did not, therefore, follow the model of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 or the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, which encourage states to legislate for improved protection for employees, beyond the minimum. The preemption rule led the US Supreme Court to strike down a New York that required giving benefits to pregnant employees in ERISA plans. It held a case under Texas law for damages for denying vesting of benefits was preempted, so the claimant only had ERISA remedies. It struck down a Washington law which altered who would receive life insurance designation on death. However, under §1144(b)(2)(A) this does not affect 'any law of any State which regulates insurance, banking, or securities.' So, the Supreme Court has also held valid a Massachusetts law requiring mental health to be covered by employer group health policies. But it struck down a Pennsylvania statute which prohibited employers becoming subrogated to (potentially more valuable) claims of employees for insurance after accidents. Yet more recently, the court has shown a greater willingness to prevent laws being preempted, however the courts have not yet adopted the principle that state law is not preempted or \"superseded\" if it is more protective to employees than a federal minimum.\nThe most important rights that ERISA 1974 did not cover were who controls investments and securities that beneficiaries' retirement savings buy. The largest form of retirement fund has become the 401(k). This is often an individual account that an employer sets up, and an investment management firm, such as Vanguard, Fidelity, Morgan Stanley or BlackRock, is then delegated the task of trading fund assets. Usually they also vote on corporate shares, assisted by a \"proxy advice\" firm such as ISS or Glass Lewis. Under ERISA 1974 §1102(a), a plan must merely have named fiduciaries who have \"authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the plan\", selected by \"an employer or employee organization\" or both jointly. Usually these fiduciaries or trustees, will delegate management to a professional firm, particularly because under §1105(d), if they do so, they will not be liable for an investment manager's breaches of duty. These investment managers buy a range of assets, particularly corporate stocks which have voting rights, as well as government bonds, corporate bonds, commodities, real estate or derivatives. Rights on those assets are in practice monopolized by investment managers, unless pension funds have organized to take voting in house, or to instruct their investment managers. Two main types of pension fund to do this are union organized Taft-Hartley plans, and state public pension plans. Under the amended National Labor Relations Act of 1935 §302(c)(5)(B) a union bargained plan has to be jointly managed by representatives of employers and employees. Although many local pension funds are not consolidated and have had critical funding notices from the Department of Labor, more funds with employee representation ensure that corporate voting rights are cast according to the preferences of their members. State public pensions are often larger, and have greater bargaining power to use on their members' behalf. State pension schemes invariably disclose the way trustees are selected. In 2005, on average more than a third of trustees were elected by employees or beneficiaries. For example, the California Government Code §20090 requires that its public employee pension fund, CalPERS has 13 members on its board, 6 elected by employees and beneficiaries. However, only pension funds of sufficient size have acted to replace investment manager voting. Furthermore, no general legislation requires voting rights for employees in pension funds, despite several proposals. For example, the Workplace Democracy Act of 1999, sponsored by Bernie Sanders then in the US House of Representatives, would have required all single employer pension plans to have trustees appointed equally by employers and employee representatives. There is, furthermore, currently no legislation to stop investment managers voting with other people's money as the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 §957 banned broker-dealers voting on significant issues without instructions. This means votes in the largest corporations that people's retirement savings buy are overwhelmingly exercised by investment managers, whose interests potentially conflict with the interests of beneficiaries' on labor rights, fair pay, job security, or pension policy.\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Act, signed into law in 1970 by President Richard Nixon, creates specific standards for workplace safety. The Act has spawned years of litigation by industry groups that have challenged the standards limiting the amount of permitted exposure to chemicals such as benzene. The Act also provides for protection for \"whistleblowers\" who complain to governmental authorities about unsafe conditions while allowing workers the right to refuse to work under unsafe conditions in certain circumstances. The Act allows states to take over the administration of OSHA in their jurisdictions, so long as they adopt state laws at least as protective of workers' rights as under federal law. More than half of the states have done so.\n\n\n\n\nThe central right in labor law, beyond minimum standards for pay, hours, pensions, safety or privacy, is to participate and vote in workplace governance. The American model developed from the Clayton Act of 1914, which declared the \"labor of a human being is not a commodity or article of commerce\" and aimed to take workplace relations out of the reach of courts hostile to collective bargaining. Lacking success, the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 changed the basic model, which remained through the 20th century. Reflecting the \"inequality of bargaining power between employees... and employers who are organized in the corporate or other forms of ownership association\", the NLRA 1935 codified basic rights of employees to organize a union, requires employers to bargain in good faith (at least on paper) after a union has majority support, binds employers to collective agreements, and protects the right to take collective action including a strike. Union membership, collective bargaining, and standards of living all increased rapidly until Congress forced through the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947. Its amendments enabled states to pass laws restricting agreements for all employees in a workplace to be unionized, prohibited collective action against associated employers, and introduced a list of unfair labor practices for unions, as well as employers. Since then, the US Supreme Court chose to develop a doctrine that the rules in the NLRA 1935 preempted any other state rules if an activity was \"arguably subject\" to its rights and duties. While states were inhibited from acting as \"laboratories of democracy\", and particularly as unions were targeted from 1980 and membership fell, the NLRA 1935 has been criticized as a \"failed statute\" as US labor law \"ossified\". This has led to more innovative experiments among states, progressive corporations and unions to create direct participation rights, including the right to vote for or codetermine directors of corporate boards, and elect work councils with binding rights on workplace issues.\n\nFreedom of association in labor unions has always been fundamental to the development of democratic society, and is protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution. In early colonial history, labor unions were routinely suppressed by the government. Recorded instances include cart drivers being fined for striking in 1677 in New York City, and carpenters prosecuted as criminals for striking in Savannah, Georgia in 1746. After the American Revolution, however, courts departed from repressive elements of English common law. The first reported case, \"Commonwealth v Pullis\" in 1806 did find shoemakers in Philadelphia guilty of \"a combination to raise their wages\". Nevertheless, unions continued, and the first federation of trade unions was formed in 1834, the National Trades' Union, with the primary aim of a 10-hour working day. In 1842 the Supreme Court of Massachusetts held in \"Commonwealth v Hunt\" that a strike by the Boston Journeymen Bootmakers' Society for higher wages was lawful. Chief Justice Shaw held that people \"are free to work for whom the please, or not to work, if they so prefer\" and \"to agree together to exercise their own acknowledged rights\". The abolition of slavery by Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation during the American Civil War was necessary to create genuine rights to organize, but was not sufficient to ensure freedom of association. Using the Sherman Act of 1890, which was intended to break up business cartels, the Supreme Court imposed an injunction on striking workers of the Pullman Company, and imprisoned the leader, and future presidential candidate, Eugene Debs. The Court also enabled unions to be sued for triple damages in \"Loewe v Lawlor\", a case involving a hat maker union in Danbury, Connecticut. The President and United States Congress responded by passing the Clayton Act of 1914 to take labor out of antitrust law. Then, after the Great Depression passed the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 to positively protect the right to organize and take collective action. After that, the law increasingly turned to regulate unions' internal affairs. The Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 regulated how members can join a union, and the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 created a \"bill of rights\" for union members.\nWhile union governance is founded upon freedom of association, the law requires basic standards of democracy and accountability to ensure members are truly free in shaping their associations. Fundamentally, all unions are democratic organizations, but they divide between those where members elect delegates, who in turn choose the executive, and those where members directly elect the executive. In 1957, after the McClellan Committee of the US Senate found evidence of two rival Teamsters Union executives, Jimmy Hoffa and Dave Beck, falsifying delegate vote counts and stealing union funds, Congress passed the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959. Under §411, every member has the right to vote, attend meetings, speak freely and organize, not have fees raised without a vote, not be deprived of the right to sue, or be suspended unjustly. Under §431, unions should file their constitutions and bylaws with the Secretary of Labor and be accessible by members: today union constitutions are online. Under §481 elections must occur at least every 5 years, and local officers every 3 years, by secret ballot. Additionally, state law may bar union officials who have prior convictions for felonies from holding office. As a response to the Hoffa and Beck scandals, there is also an express fiduciary duty on union officers for members' money, limits on loans to executives, requirements for bonds for handling money, and up to a $10,000 fine or up to 5 years prison for embezzlement. These rules, however, restated most of what was already the law, and codified principles of governance that unions already undertook. On the other hand, under §501(b) to bring a lawsuit, a union member must first make a demand on the executive to correct wrongdoing before any claim can be made to a court, even for misapplication of funds, and potentially wait four months' time. The Supreme Court has held that union members can intervene in enforcement proceedings brought by the US Department of Labor. Federal courts may review decisions by the Department to proceed with any prosecutions. The range of rights, and the level of enforcement has meant that labor unions display significantly higher standards of accountability, with fewer scandals, than corporations or financial institutions.\nBeyond members rights within a labor union, the most controversial issue has been how people become members in unions. This affects union membership numbers, and whether labor rights are promoted or suppressed in democratic politics. Historically, unions made collective agreements with employers that all new workers would have to join the union. This was to prevent employers trying to dilute and divide union support, and ultimately refuse to improve wages and conditions in collective bargaining. However, after the Taft-Hartley Act 1947, the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 §158(a)(3) was amended to ban employers from refusing to hire a non-union employee. An employee can be required to join the union (if such a collective agreement is in place) after 30 days. But §164(b) was added to codify a right of states to pass so called \"right to work laws\" that prohibit unions making collective agreements to register all workers as union members, or collect fees for the service of collective bargaining. Over time, as more states with Republican governments passed laws restricting union membership agreements, there has been a significant decline of union density. Unions have not, however, yet experimented with agreements to automatically enroll employees in unions with a right to opt out. In \"Machinists v Street\", a majority of the US Supreme Court, against three dissenting justices, held that the First Amendment precluded making an employee become a union member against their will, but it would be lawful to collect fees to reflect the benefits from collective bargaining: fees could not be used for spending on political activities without the member's consent. Unions have always been entitled to publicly campaign for members of Congress or presidential candidates that support labor rights. But the urgency of political spending was raised when in 1976 \"Buckley v Valeo\" decided, over powerful dissents of White J and Marshall J, that candidates could spend unlimited money on their own political campaign, and then in \"First National Bank of Boston v. Bellotti\", that corporations could engage in election spending. In 2010, over four dissenting justices, \"Citizens United v FEC\" held there could be essentially no limits to corporate spending. By contrast, every other democratic country caps spending (usually as well as regulating donations) as the original Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 had intended to do. A unanimous court held in \"Abood v Detroit School Board\" that union security agreements to collect fees from non-members were also allowed in the public sector. However, in \"Harris v Quinn\" five US Supreme Court judges reversed this ruling apparently banning public sector union security agreements, and were about to do the same for all unions in \"Friedrichs v California Teachers Association\" until Scalia J died, halting an anti-labor majority on the Supreme Court. In 2018, \"Janus v AFSCME\" the Supreme Court held by 5 to 4 that collecting union fees in public sector employees violated the First Amendment. The dissenting judges repeated that union fees merely paid for benefits of collective bargaining that non-members otherwise received for free. These factors led campaign finance reform to be one of the most important issues in the 2016 US Presidential election, for the future of the labor movement, and democratic life.\n\nSince the industrial revolution, collective bargaining has been the main way to get fair pay, improved conditions, and a voice at work. The need for positive rights to organize and bargain was gradually appreciated after the Clayton Act of 1914. Under §6, labor rights were declared to be outside of antitrust law, but this did not stop hostile employers and courts suppressing unions. In \"Adair v United States\", and \"Coppage v Kansas\", the US Supreme Court, over powerful dissents, asserted the Constitution empowered employers to require employees to sign contracts promising they would not join a union. These \"yellow dog contracts\" were offered to employees on a \"take it or leave it\" basis, and effectively stopped unionization. They lasted until the Great Depression when the Norris–La Guardia Act of 1932 banned them. This also prevented the courts from issuing any injunctions or enforcing any agreements in the context of a labor dispute. After the landslide election of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 was drafted to create positive rights for collective bargaining in most of the private sector. It aimed to create a system of federal rights so that, under §157, employees would gain the legal \"right to self-organization\", \"to bargain collectively\" and use \"concerted activities\" including strikes for \"mutual aid or other protection\". The Act was meant to increase bargaining power of employees to get better terms in than individual contracts with employing corporations. However §152 excluded many groups of workers, such as state and federal government employees, railway and airline staff, domestic and agriculture workers. These groups depend on special federal statutes like the Railway Labor Act of 1926 or state law rules, like the California Agricultural Labor Relations Act of 1975. In 1979, five US Supreme Court judges, over four forceful dissents, also introduced an exception for church operated schools, apparently because of \"serious First Amendment questions\". Furthermore, \"independent contractors\" are excluded, even though many are economically dependent workers. Some courts have attempted to expand the \"independent contractor\" exception. In 2009, in \"FedEx Home Delivery v NLRB\" the DC Circuit, adopting submissions of FedEx's lawyer Ted Cruz, held that post truck drivers were independent contractors because they took on \"entrepreneurial opportunity\". Garland J dissented, arguing the majority had departed from common law tests. The \"independent contractor\" category was estimated to remove protection from 8 million workers. While many states have higher rates, the US has an 11.1 per cent unionization rate and 12.3 per cent rate of coverage by collective agreement. This is the lowest in the industrialized world.\nAt any point employers can freely bargain with union representatives and make a collective agreement. Under NLRA 1935 §158(d) the mandatory subjects of collective bargaining include \"wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment\". A collective agreement will typically aim to get rights including a fair day's wage for a fair day's work, reasonable notice and severance pay before any necessary layoffs, just cause for any job termination, and arbitration to resolve disputes. It could also extend to any subject by mutual agreement. A union can encourage an employing entity through collective action to sign a deal, without using the NLRA 1935 procedure. But, if an employing entity refuses to deal with a union, and a union wishes, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) may oversee a legal process up to the conclusion of a legally binding collective agreement. By law, the NLRB is meant to have five members \"appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate\", and play a central role in promoting collective bargaining. First, the NLRB will determine an appropriate \"bargaining unit\" of employees with employers (e.g., offices in a city, or state, or whole economic sector), The NLRB favors \"enterprise bargaining\" over \"sectoral collective bargaining\", which means US unions have traditionally been smaller with less bargaining power by international standards. Second, a union with \"majority\" support of employees in a bargaining unit becomes \"the exclusive representatives of all the employees\". But to ascertain majority support, the NLRB supervises the fairness of elections among the workforce. It is typical for the NLRB to take six weeks from a petition from workers to an election being held. During this time, managers may attempt to persuade or coerce employees using high-pressure tactics or unfair labor practices (e.g. threatening job termination, alleging unions will bankrupt the firm) to vote against recognizing the union. The average time for the NLRB to decide upon complaints of unfair labor practices had grown to 483 days in 2009 when its last annual report was written. Third, if a union does win majority support in a bargaining unit election, the employing entity will have an \"obligation to bargain collectively\". This means meeting union representatives \"at reasonable times and confer in good faith with respect to wages, hours, and other terms\" to put in a \"written contract\". The NLRB cannot compel an employer to agree, but it was thought that the NLRB's power to sanction an employer for an \"unfair labor practice\" if they did not bargain in good faith would be sufficient. For example, in \"JI Case Co v NLRB\" the Supreme Court held an employer could not refuse to bargain on the basis that individual contracts were already in place. Crucially, in \"Wallace Corp v NLRB\" the Supreme Court also held that an employer only bargaining with a company union, which it dominated, was an unfair labor practice. The employer should have recognized the truly independent union affiliated to the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO). However, in \"NLRB v Sands Manufacturing Co\" the Supreme Court held an employer did not commit an unfair trade practice by shutting down a water heater plant, while the union was attempting to prevent new employees being paid less. Moreover, after 2007 President George W. Bush and the Senate refused to make any appointments to the Board, and it was held by five judges, over four dissents, in \"New Process Steel LP v NLRB\" that rules made by two remaining members were ineffective. While appointments were made in 2013, agreement was not reached on one vacant seat. Increasingly it has been made politically unfeasible for the NLRB to act to promote collective bargaining.\nOnce collective agreements have been signed, they are legally enforceable, often through arbitration, and ultimately in federal court. Federal law must be applied for national uniformity, so state courts must apply federal law when asked to deal with collective agreements or the dispute can be removed to federal court. Usually, collective agreements include provisions for sending grievances of employees or disputes to binding arbitration, governed by the Federal Arbitration Act of 1925. For example, in \"United Steelworkers v Warrior & Gulf Navigation Co\" a group of employees at a steel transportation works in Chickasaw, Alabama requested the corporation go to arbitration over layoffs and outsourcing of 19 staff on lower pay to do the same jobs. The United Steelworkers had a collective agreement which contained a provision for arbitration. Douglas J held that any doubts about whether the agreement allowed the issue to go to arbitration \"should be resolved in favor of coverage.\" An arbitrator's award is entitled to judicial enforcement so long as its essence is from the collective agreement. Courts can decline to enforce an agreement based on public policy, but this is different from \"general considerations of supposed public interests\". But while federal policy had encouraged arbitration where unions and employers had made agreements, the US Supreme Court drew a clear distinction for arbitration over individual statutory rights. In \"Alexander v Gardner-Denver Co\" an employee claimed he was unjustly terminated, and suffered unlawful race discrimination under the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Supreme Court held that he was entitled to pursue remedies both through arbitration and the public courts, which could re-evaluate the claim whatever the arbitrator had decided. But then, in 2009 in \"14 Penn Plaza LLC v Pyett\" Thomas J announced with four other judges that apparently \"[n]othing in the law suggests a distinction between the status of arbitration agreements signed by an individual employee and those agreed to by a union representative.\" This meant that a group of employees were denied the right to go to a public court under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, and instead potentially be heard only by arbitrators their employer selected. Stevens J and Souter J, joined by Ginsburg J, Breyer J dissented, pointing out that rights cannot be waived even by collective bargaining. An Arbitration Fairness Act of 2011 has been proposed to reverse this, urging that \"employees have little or no meaningful choice whether to submit their claims to arbitration\". It remains unclear why NLRA 1935 §1, recognizing workers' \"inequality of bargaining power\" was not considered relevant to ensure that collective bargaining can only improve upon rights, rather than take them away. To address further perceived defects of the NLRA 1935 and the US Supreme Court's interpretations, major proposed reforms have included the Labor Reform Act of 1977, the Workplace Democracy Act of 1999, and the Employee Free Choice Act of 2009. All focus on speeding the election procedure for union recognition, speeding hearings for unfair labor practices, and improving remedies within the existing structure of labor relations.\n\nTo ensure that employees are effectively able to bargain for a collective agreement, the NLRA 1935 created a group of rights in §158 to stall \"unfair labor practices\" by employers. These were considerably amended by the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947, where the US Congress over the veto of President Harry S. Truman decided to add a list of unfair labor practices for labor unions. This has meant that union organizing in the US may involve substantial levels of litigation which most workers cannot afford. The fundamental principle of freedom of association, however, is recognized worldwide to require various rights. It extends to the state, so in \"Hague v. Committee for Industrial Organization\" held the New Jersey mayor violated the First Amendment when trying to shut down CIO meetings because he thought they were \"communist\". Among many rights and duties relating to unfair labor practices, five main groups of case have emerged.\nFirst, under §158(a)(3)-(4) a person who joins a union must suffer no discrimination or retaliation in their chances for being hired, terms of their work, or in termination. For example, in one of the first cases, \"NLRB v Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp\", the US Supreme held that the National Labor Relations Board was entitled to order workers be rehired after they had been dismissed for organizing a union at their plant in Aliquippa, Pennsylvania. It is also unlawful for employers to monitor employees who are organizing, for instance by parking outside a union meeting, or videotaping employees giving out union fliers. This can include giving people incentives or bribes to not join a union. So in \"NLRB v Erie Resistor Corp\" the Supreme Court held it was unlawful to give 20 years extra seniority to employees who crossed a picket line while the union had called a strike. Second, and by contrast, the Supreme Court had decided in \"Textile Workers Union of America v Darlington Manufacturing Co Inc\" that actually shutting down a recently unionized division of an enterprise was lawful, unless it was proven that the employer was motivated by hostility to the union. Third, union members need the right to be represented, in order to carry out basic functions of collective bargaining and settle grievances or disciplinary hearings with management. This entails a duty of fair representation. In \"NLRB v J Weingarten, Inc\" the Supreme Court held that an employee in a unionized workplace had the right to a union representative present in a management interview, if it could result in disciplinary action. Although the NLRB has changed its position with different political appointees, the DC Circuit has held the same right goes that non-union workers were equally entitled to be accompanied. Fourth, under §158(a)(5) it is an unfair labor practice to refuse to bargain in good faith, and out of this a right has developed for a union to receive information necessary to perform collective bargaining work. However, in \"Detroit Edison Co v NLRB\" the Supreme Court divided 5 to 4 on whether a union was entitled to receive individual testing scores from a program the employer used. Also, in \"Lechmere, Inc. v. National Labor Relations Board\" the Supreme Court held 6 to 3 that an employer was entitled to prevent union members, who were not employees, from entering the company parking lot to hand out leaflets. Fifth, there are a large group of cases concerning \"unfair\" practices of labor organizations, listed in §158(b). For example, in \"Pattern Makers League of North America v NLRB\" an employer claimed a union had committed an unfair practice by attempting to enforce fines against employees who had been members, but quit during a strike when their membership agreement promised they would not. Five judges to four dissents held that such fines could not be enforced against people who were no longer union members.\nThe US Supreme Court policy of preemption, developed from 1953, means that states cannot legislate where the NLRA 1935 does operate. The NLRA 1935 contains no clause requiring preemption as is found, for example, in the Fair Labor Standards Act 1938 §218(a) where deviations from the minimum wage or maximum hours are preempted, unless they are more beneficial to the employee. The first major case, \"Garner v Teamsters Local 776\", decided a Pennsylvania statute was preempted from providing superior remedies or processing claims quicker than the NLRB because \"the Board was vested with power to entertain petitioners' grievance, to issue its own complaint\" and apparent \"Congress evidently considered that centralized administration of specially designed procedures was necessary to obtain uniform application of its substantive rules\". In \"San Diego Building Trades Council v Garmon\", the Supreme Court held that the California Supreme Court was not entitled to award remedies against a union for picketing, because if \"an activity is arguably subject to §7 or §8 of the Act, the States as well as the federal courts must defer to the exclusive competence of the National Labor Relations Board\". This was true, even though the NLRB had not given any ruling on the dispute because its monetary value was too small. This reasoning was extended in \"Lodge 76, International Association of Machinists v Wisconsin Employment Relations Commission\", where a Wisconsin Employment Relations Commission sought to hold a union liable for an unfair labor practice, by refusing to work overtime. Brennan J held that such matters were to be left to \"be controlled by the free play of economic forces\". While some of these judgments appeared beneficial to unions against hostile state courts or bodies, supportive actions also began to be held preempted. In \"Golden State Transit Corp v City of Los Angeles\" a majority of the Supreme Court held that Los Angeles was not entitled to refuse to renew a taxi company's franchise license because the Teamsters Union had pressured it not to until a dispute was resolved. Most recently in \"Chamber of Commerce v Brown\" seven judges on the Supreme Court held that California was preempted from passing a law prohibiting any recipient of state funds either from using money to promote or deter union organizing efforts. Breyer J and Ginsburg J dissented because the law was simply neutral to the bargaining process. State governments may, however, use their funds to procure corporations to do work that are union or labor friendly.\n\nThe right of labor to take collective action, including the right to strike, has been fundamental to common law, federal law, and international law for over a century. Today it is accepted that, as New York teacher unions argued in the 1960s, \"If you can’t call a strike you don’t have real collective bargaining, you have 'collective begging.'\" However, even after slavery was abolished over the 19th century, courts in different states conflicted with each other over the extent of the right to strike: some courts continued to frustrate strikes and issued injunctions. The Sherman Act of 1890, which was intended to prohibit business combinations in restraint of trade, was first used against labor unions. This resulted in Eugene Debs, American Railway Union leader and future Socialist Presidential candidate being imprisoned for taking part in the Pullman Strike. The Supreme Court persisted in \"Loewe v Lawlor\" in imposing damages for strikes under antitrust law, until Congress passed the Clayton Act of 1914. Seen as \"the Magna Carta of America's workers\", this proclaimed that all collective action by workers was outside antitrust law under the commerce clause, because \"labor is not a commodity or article of commerce\". The same principle entered the founding documents of the International Labour Organization in 1919. However, it was not until the end of the \"Lochner era\" that the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 successfully enshrined in §157 the right \"to engage in other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection\" and in §163 the \"right to strike\".\nAlthough the \"right to strike\" is guaranteed by federal law, American labor unions face the most severe constraints on freedom in the developed world in the (1) purposes for which people can strike, (2) number of employers they can strike against, (3) procedures for taking strikes, (4) absence of protection from dismissal or replacement, and (5) fierce sanctions against unions for \"unfair labor practices\".\n\n\nWhile collective bargaining was stalled by US Supreme Court preemption policy, a dysfunctional National Labor Relations Board, and falling union membership rate since the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947, employees have demanded direct voting rights at work: for corporate boards of directors, and in work councils that bind management. This has become an important complement to both strengthening collective bargaining, and securing the votes in labor's capital on pension boards, which buy and vote on corporate stocks, and control employers. Labor law has increasingly converged with corporate law, and in 2018 the first federal law, the Reward Work Act was proposed by three US senators to enable employees to vote for one third of the directors on boards of listed companies. In 1919, under the Republican governor Calvin Coolidge, Massachusetts became the first state with a right for employees in manufacturing companies to have employee representatives on the board of directors, but only if corporate stockholders voluntarily agreed. Also in 1919 both Procter & Gamble and the General Ice Delivery Company of Detroit had employee representation on boards. Board representation for employees spread through the 1920s, many without requiring any employee stock ownership plan. In the early 20th century, labor law theory split between those who advocated collective bargaining backed by strike action, those who advocated a greater role for binding arbitration, and proponents of codetermination as \"industrial democracy\". Today, these methods are seen as complements, not alternatives. A majority of countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development have laws requiring direct participation rights. In 1994, the \"\" examined law reform to improve collective labor relations, and suggested minor amendments to encourage worker involvement. Congressional division prevented federal reform, but labor unions and state legislatures have experimented.\nCorporations are chartered under state law, the larger mostly in Delaware, but leave investors free to organize voting rights and board representation as they choose. Because of unequal bargaining power, but also because of excessive caution among American labor unions about taking on management, shareholders have come to monopolize voting rights in American corporations. From the 1970s employees and unions sought representation on company boards. This could happen through collective agreements, as it historically occurred in Germany or other countries, or through employees demanding further representation through employee stock ownership plans, but they aimed for voice independent from capital risks that could not be diversified. By 1980, workers had attempted to secure board representation at corporations including United Airlines, the General Tire and Rubber Company, and the Providence and Worcester Railroad. However, in 1974 the Securities and Exchange Commission, run by appointees of Richard Nixon, had rejected that employees who held shares in AT&T were entitled to make shareholder proposals to include employee representatives on the board of directors. This position was eventually reversed expressly by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 §971, which subject to rules by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitles shareholders to put forward nominations for the board. Instead of pursuing board seats through shareholder resolutions the United Auto Workers, for example, successfully sought board representation by collective agreement at Chrysler in 1980. The United Steel Workers secured board representation in five corporations in 1993. Some representation plans were linked to employee stock ownership plans, and were open to abuse. At the energy company, Enron, workers were encouraged by management to invest an average of 62.5 per cent of their retirement savings from 401(k) plans in Enron stock against basic principles of prudent, diversified investment, and had no board representation. When Enron collapsed in 2003, employees lost a majority of their pension savings. For this reason, employees and unions have sought representation because they invest their labor in the firm, and do not want undiversifiable capital risk. Empirical research suggests by 1999 there were at least 35 major employee representation plans with worker directors, though often linked to corporate stock.\nAs well as representation on a corporation's board of directors, or top management, employees have sought binding rights (for instance, over working time, break arrangement, and layoffs) in their organizations through elected work councils. After the National War Labor Board was established by the Woodrow Wilson administration, firms established work councils with some rights throughout the 1920s. Frequently, however, management refused to concede the \"right to employ and discharge, the direction of the working forces, and the management of the business\" in any way, which from the workforce perspective defeated the object. As the US presidency changed to the Republican party during the 1920s, work \"councils\" were often instituted by employers that did not have free elections or proceedings, to forestall independent labor unions' right to collective bargaining. For this reason, the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 §158(a)(2) ensured it was an unfair labor practice for an employer \"to dominate or interfere with the formation or administration of any labor organization, or contribute financial or other support to it\". This was designed to enable free work councils, genuinely independent from management, but not dominated work councils or so called \"company unions\". For example, a work council law was passed by the US government in Allied-occupied Germany called Control Council Law, No 22. This empowered German workers to organize work councils if elected by democratic methods, with secret ballots, using participation of free labor unions, with basic functions ranging from how to apply collective agreements, regulating health and safety, rules for engagements, dismissals and grievances, proposals for improving work methods, and organizing social and welfare facilities. These rules were subsequently updated and adopted in German law, although American employees themselves did not yet develop a practice of bargaining for work councils, nor did states implement work council rules, even though neither were preempted by the National Labor Relations Act of 1935. In 1992, the National Labor Relations Board in its \"Electromation, Inc\", and \"EI du Pont de Nemours\", decisions confirmed that while management dominated councils were unlawful, genuine and independent work councils would not be. The Dunlop Report in 1994 produced an inconclusive discussion that favored experimentation with work councils. A Republican Congress did propose a Teamwork for Employees and Managers Act of 1995 to repeal §158(a)(2), but this was vetoed by President Bill Clinton as it would have enabled management dominated unions and councils. In 2014, workers at the Volkswagen Chattanooga Assembly Plant, in Chattanooga, Tennessee, sought to establish a work council. This was initially supported by management, but its stance changed in 2016, after the United Auto Workers succeeded in winning a ballot for traditional representation in an exclusive bargaining unit. As it stands, employees have no widespread right to vote in American workplaces, which has increased the gap between political democracy and traditional labor law goals of workplace and economic democracy.\n\nSince the US Declaration of Independence in 1776 proclaimed that \"all men are created equal\", the Constitution was progressively amended, and legislation was written, to spread equal rights to all people. While the right to vote was needed for true political participation, the \"right to work\" and \"free choice of employment\" came to be seen as necessary for \"life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness\". After state laws experimented, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Executive Order 8802 in 1941 set up the Fair Employment Practice Committee to ban discrimination by \"race, creed, color or national origin\" in the defense industry. The first comprehensive statutes were the Equal Pay Act of 1963, to limit discrimination by employers between men and women, and the Civil Rights Act of 1964, to stop discrimination based on \"race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.\" In the following years, more \"protected characteristics\" were added by state and federal acts. The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 protects people over age 40. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 requires \"reasonable accommodation\" to include people with disabilities in the workforce. Twenty two state Acts protect people based on sexual orientation in public and private employment, but proposed federal laws have been blocked by Republican opposition. There can be no detriment to union members, or people who have served in the military. In principle, states may require rights and remedies for employees that go beyond the federal minimum. Federal law has multiple exceptions, but generally requires no disparate treatment by employing entities, no disparate impact of formally neutral measures, and enables employers to voluntarily take affirmative action favoring under-represented people in their workforce. The law has not, however, succeeded in eliminating the disparities in income by race, health, age or socio-economic background.\n\nThe right to equality in employment in the United States comes from at least six major statutes, and limited jurisprudence of the US Supreme Court, leaving the law inconsistent and full of exceptions. Originally, the US Constitution entrenched gender, race and wealth inequality by enabling states to maintain slavery, reserve the vote to white, property owning men, and enabling employers to refuse employment to anyone. After the Emancipation Proclamation of 1863 in the American Civil War, the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments attempted to enshrined equal civil rights for everyone, while the Civil Rights Act of 1866, and 1875 spelled out that everyone had the right to make contracts, hold property and access accommodation, transport and entertainment without discrimination. However, in 1883 the US Supreme Court in the \"Civil Rights Cases\" put an end to development by declaring that Congress was not allowed to regulate the actions of private individuals rather than public bodies. In his dissent, Harlan J would have held that no \"corporation or individual wielding power under state authority for the public benefit\" was entitled to \"discriminate against freemen or citizens, in their civil rights\".\nBy 1944, the position had changed. In \"Steele v Louisville & Nashville Railway Co\", a Supreme Court majority held a labor union had a duty of fair representation and may not discriminate against members based on race under the Railway Labor Act of 1926 (or the National Labor Relations Act of 1935. Murphy J would have also based the duty on a right to equality in the Fifth Amendment). Subsequently, \"Johnson v Railway Express Agency\" admitted that the old Enforcement Act of 1870 provided a remedy against private parties. However, the Courts have not yet accepted a general right of equality, regardless of public or private power. Legislation will usually be found unconstitutional, under the Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment if discrimination is shown to be intentional, or if it irrationally discriminates against one group. For example, in \"Cleveland Board of Education v LaFleur\" the Supreme Court held by a majority of 5 to 2, that a school's requirement for women teachers to take mandatory maternity leave was unconstitutional, against the Due Process Clause, because it could not plausibly be shown that after child birth women could never perform a job. But while the US Supreme Court has failed, against dissent, to recognize a constitutional principle of equality, federal and state legislation contains the stronger rules. In principle, federal equality law always enables state law to create better rights and remedies for employees.\n\nToday legislation bans discrimination, that is unrelated to an employee's ability to do a job, based on sex, race, ethnicity, national origin, age and disability. The Equal Pay Act of 1963 banned gender pay discrimination, amending the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Plaintiffs must show an employing entity pays them less than someone of the opposite sex in an \"establishment\" for work of \"equal skill, effort, or responsibility\" under \"similar working conditions\". Employing entities may raise a defense that pay differences result from a seniority or merit system unrelated to sex. For example, in \"Corning Glass Works v Brennan\" the Supreme Court held that although women plaintiffs worked at different times in the day, compared to male colleagues, the working conditions were \"sufficiently similar\" and the claim was allowed. One drawback is the equal pay provisions are subject to multiple exemptions for groups of employees found in the FLSA 1938 itself. Another is that equal pay rules only operate within workers of an \"enterprise\", so that it has no effect upon high paying enterprises being more male dominated, nor child care being unequally shared between men and women that affects long term career progression. Sex discrimination includes discrimination based on pregnancy, and is prohibited in general by the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964.\nBeyond gender equality on the specific issue of pay, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is the general anti-discrimination statute. Titles I to VI protects the equal right to vote, to access accommodation, public services, schools, it strengthens the Civil Rights Commission, and requires equality in federally funded agencies. Title VII bans discrimination in employment. Under §2000e-2, employers must not refuse to hire, discharge or discriminate \"against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of employment, because of such individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.\" Segregation in employment is equally unlawful. The same basic rules apply for people over 40 years old, and for people with disabilities. Although states may go further, a significant limit to federal law is a duty only falls on private employers of more than 15 staff, or 20 staff for age discrimination. Within these limits, people can bring claims against disparate treatment. In \"Texas Dept of Community Affairs v Burdine\" the US Supreme Court held plaintiffs will establish a \"prima facie\" case of discrimination for not being hired if they are in a protected group, qualified for a job, but the job is given to someone of a different group. It is then up to an employer to rebut the case, by showing a legitimate reason for not hiring the plaintiff. However, in 1993, this position was altered in \"St Mary's Honor Center v Hicks\" where Scalia J held (over the dissent of four justices) that if an employer shows no discriminatory intent, an employee must not only show the reason is a pretext, but show additional evidence that discrimination has taken place. Souter J in dissent, pointed out the majority's approach was \"inexplicable in forgiving employers who present false evidence in court\".\n\nDisparate treatment can be justified under CRA 1964 §2000e-2(e) if an employer shows selecting someone reflects by \"religion, sex, or national origin is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of that particular business or enterprise.\" Race is not included. For example, in \"Dothard v Rawlinson\" the state of Alabama prohibited women from working as prison guards in \"contact\" jobs, with close proximity to prisoners. It also had minimum height and weight requirements (5\"2 and 120 lbs), which it argued were necessary for proper security. Ms Rawlinson claimed both requirements were unlawful discrimination. A majority of 6 to 3 held that the gender restrictions in contact jobs were a bona fide occupational qualification, because there was a heightened risk of sexual assault, although Stewart J suggested the result might have differed if the prisons were better run. A majority held the height and weight restrictions, while neutral, had a disparate impact on women and were not justified by business necessity. By contrast, in \"Wilson v Southwest Airlines Co\", a Texas District Court held an airline was not entitled to require women only to work as cabin attendants (who were further required to be \"dressed in high boots and hot-pants\") even if it could show a consumer preference. The essence of the business was transporting passengers, rather than its advertising metaphor of \"spreading love all over Texas\", so that there was no \"bona fide occupational requirement\". Under the ADEA 1967, age requirements can be used, but only if reasonably necessary, or compelled by law or circumstance. For example, in \"Western Air Lines, Inc v Criswell\" the Supreme Court held that airlines could require pilots to retire at age 60, because the Federal Aviation Authority required this. It could not, however, refuse to employ flight engineers over 60 because there was no comparable FAA rule.\nIn addition to prohibitions on discriminatory treatment, harassment, and detriment in retaliation for asserting rights, is prohibited. In a particularly obscene case, \"Meritor Savings Bank v Vinson\" the Supreme Court unanimously held that a bank manager who coerced a woman employee into having sex with him 40 to 50 times, including rape on multiple occasions, had committed unlawful harassment within the meaning of 42 USC §2000e. But also if employees or managers create a \"hostile or offensive working environment\", this counts as discrimination. In \"Harris v Forklift Systems, Inc\" the Court held that a \"hostile environment\" did not have to \"seriously affect employees’ psychological well-being\" to be unlawful. If the environment \"would reasonably be perceived, and is perceived, as hostile or abusive\" this is enough. Standard principles of agency and vicariously liability apply, so an employer is responsible for the actions of its agents, But according to \"Faragher v City of Boca Raton\" an employing entity can avoid vicarious liability if it shows it (a) exercised reasonable care to prevent and promptly correct any harassment and (b) a plaintiff unreasonably failed to take advantage of opportunities to stop it. In addition, an employing entity may not retaliate against an employee for asserting his or her rights under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, or the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967. In \"University of Pennsylvania v Equal Employment Opportunity Commission\", the Supreme Court held that a university was not entitled to refuse to give up peer review assessment documents in order for the EEOC to investigate the claim. Furthermore, in \"Robinson v Shell Oil Company\" the Supreme Court held that writing a negative job reference, after a plaintiff brought a race discrimination claim, was unlawful retaliation: employees were protected even if they had been fired. It has also been held that simply being reassigned to a slightly different job, operating forklifts, after making a sex discrimination complaint could amount to unlawful retaliation. This is all seen as necessary to make equal rights effective.\n\nIn addition to disparate treatment, employing entities may not use practices having an unjustified disparate impact on protected groups. In \"Griggs v Duke Power Co\", a power company on the Dan River, North Carolina, required a high school diploma for staff to transfer to higher paying non-manual jobs. Because of racial segregation in states like North Carolina, fewer black employees than white employees had diplomas. The Court found a diploma was wholly unnecessary to perform the tasks in higher paying non-manual jobs. Burger CJ, for a unanimous Supreme Court, held the \"Act proscribes not only overt discrimination, but also practices that are fair in form, but discriminatory in operation.\" An employer could show that a practice with disparate impact followed \"business necessity\" that was \"related to job performance\" but otherwise such practices would be prohibited. It is not necessary to show any intention to discriminate, just a discriminatory effect. Since amendments by the Civil Rights Act of 1991, if disparate impact is shown the law requires employers \"to demonstrate that the challenged practice is job related for the position in question and consistent with business necessity\" and that any non-discriminatory \"alternative employment practice\" is not feasible. On the other hand, in \"Ricci v DeStefano\" five Supreme Court judges held the City of New Haven had acted unlawfully by discarding test results for firefighters, which it concluded could have had an unjustified disparate impact by race. In a further concurrence, Scalia J said \"resolution of this dispute merely postpones the evil day\" when a disparate impact might be found unconstitutional, against the equal protection clause because, in his view, the lack of a good faith defense meant employers were compelled to do \"racial decision making\" that \"is... discriminatory.\" In dissent, Ginsburg J pointed out that disparate impact theory advances equality, and in no way requires behavior that is not geared to identifying people with skills necessary for jobs.\nBoth disparate treatment and disparate impact claims may be brought by an individual, or if there is a \"pattern or practice\" by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Attorney General, and by class action. Under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 23 a class of people who share a common claim must be numerous, have \"questions of law or fact common to the class\", have representatives typical of the claimants, who would \"fairly and adequately protect the interests of the class\". Class actions may be brought, even in favor of people who are not already identified, for instance, if they have been discouraged from applying for jobs, so long as there is sufficiently specific presentation of issues of law and fact to certify the action.\n\nA significant practical problem for disparate impact claims is the \"Bennett Amendment\" in the Civil Rights Act of 1964 §703(h). Though introduced as a supposedly \"technical\" amendment by a Utah Republican Senator, it requires that claims for equal pay between men and women cannot be brought unless they fulfill the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 § 206(d)(1). This says that employers have a defense to employee claims if unequal pay (purely based on gender) flows from \"(i) a seniority system; (ii) a merit system; (iii) a system which measures earnings by quantity or quality of production; or (iv) a differential based on any other factor other than sex.\" By contrast, for claims alleging discriminatory pay on grounds of race, age, sexual orientation or other protected characteristics, an employer only has the more restricted defenses available in the CRA 1964 §703(h). In \"County of Washington v Gunther\" the majority of the Supreme Court accepted that this was the correct definition. In principle, this meant that a group of women prison guards, who did less time working with prisoners than men guards, and also did different clerical work, would be able to bring a claim - there was no need to be doing entirely \"equal work\". However Rehnquist J dissented, arguing the Amendment should have put the plaintiffs in an even worse position: they should be required to prove they do \"equal work\", as is stated in the first part of §703(h). Nevertheless, the majority held that the gender pay provisions could be worse because, for example, an employer could apply \"\"a bona fide job rating system,\" so long as it does not discriminate on the basis of sex\", whereas the same would not be possible for other claims under the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Given that a significant gender pay gap remains, it is not clear why any discrepancy or less favorable treatment, should remain at all.\n\n\n\n\nSome state and federal laws presume workers who are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement or an individual employment agreement have \"at-will employment\". This is a policy that employees' may be dismissed without notice and for no stated reason. However state and federal laws prohibiting discrimination or protecting the right to organize or engage in whistleblowing activities modify that rule by providing that discharge or other forms of discrimination are illegal if undertaken on grounds specifically prohibited by law. An employment relationship could be terminated by either party at any time without a reason. Starting in 1941, a series of laws prohibited certain discriminatory firings. That is, in most states, absent an express contractual provision to the contrary, an employer can still fire an employee for no or any reason, as long as it is not a reason in violation of public policy.\n\nMost states have modified the general rule that employment is at will by holding that employees may, under that state's common law, have implied contract rights to fair treatment by their employers. US private-sector employees thus do not have the indefinite contracts (similar to US academic tenure) traditionally common in many European countries, Canada and New Zealand.\n\nPublic employees in both federal and state government are also typically covered by civil service systems that protect them from unjust discharge. Public employees who have enough rights against unjustified discharge by their employers may also acquire a property right in their jobs, which entitles them in turn to additional protections under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\n\nThe Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (the WARN Act) requires private sector employers to give sixty days' notice of large-scale layoffs and plant closures; it allows a number of exceptions for unforeseen emergencies and other cases. Several states have adopted more stringent requirements of their own.\n\n\n\nIn 1959, California added the Division of Fair Employment Practices to the California Department of Industrial Relations. The Fair Employment and Housing Act of 1980 gave the division its own Department of Fair Employment and Housing, with the stated purpose of protecting citizens against harassment and employment discrimination on the basis of: age, ancestry, color, creed, denial of family and medical care leave, disability (including HIV/AIDS), marital status, medical condition, national origin, race, religion, sex, transgender and orientation. Sexual orientation was not specifically included in the original law but precedent was established based on case law. On October 9, 2011, California Governor Edmund G. \"Jerry\" Brown signed into law Assembly Bill No. 887 alters the meaning of gender for the purposes of discrimination laws that define sex as including gender so that California law now prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender identity and gender expression.\n\nThe state also has its own labor law covering agricultural workers, the California Agricultural Labor Relations Act.\n\nIn 1945, New Jersey enacted the first statewide civil rights act in the entire nation. with the purpose of protecting citizens against harassment and employment discrimination on the basis of: age, color, nationality, age, disability, creed, national origin, ancestry, sex, pregnancy, domestic partnership, sexual orientation, perceived sexual orientation, civil union status, marital status, affectional orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, military service, or mental or physical disability, AIDS and HIV related illnesses and atypical hereditary cellular or blood traits.\n\n, twenty-eight states plus Guam prevent trade unions from signing collective agreements with employers requiring employees pay fees to the union when they are not members (frequently called \"right-to-work\" laws by their political proponents).\n\nIn 2010, the organization \"Save Our Secret Ballot\" pushed four states: Arizona, South Carolina, South Dakota, and Utah to pass constitutional amendments to ban Card check.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "255460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255460", "title": "University of Groningen", "text": "University of Groningen\n\nThe University of Groningen (abbreviated as UG; , abbreviated as \"RUG\") is a public research university in the city of Groningen in the Netherlands. The university was founded in 1614. Since its founding more than 200,000 students have graduated.\n\nIn April 2013, according to the results of the International Student Barometer, the University of Groningen, for the third time in a row, was voted the best university of the Netherlands. In 2014 the university celebrated its 400th anniversary. The university was ranked 59th in the world, according to ARWU in 2017.\n\nThe University of Groningen has eleven faculties, nine graduate schools, 27 research centres and institutes, and more than 175 degree programmes. The university's alumni and faculty include four Nobel Prize winners, five Spinoza Prize winners, multiple mayors, Aletta Jacobs, Johann Bernoulli, royalty, and a secretary general of NATO.\n\nThe institution was founded as a college in 1614 in an initiative taken by the Regional Assembly of the city of Groningen and the Ommelanden, or surrounding region. There were four faculties – Theology, Law, Medicine, and Philosophy.\n\nThe coat of arms of the university was confirmed by The Estates of the City and County of Groningen in 1615. It consists of the provincial arms, charged with an open book inscribed with the abbreviated words VER/BVM/DNI LV/CER/NA, short for \"Verbum Domini Lucerna Pedibus Nostris\". The shield is surmounted by a golden crown of five leaves and four pearls.\n\nThe first 75 years of its existence were very fruitful for the University with about 100 students enrolling every year. Almost half of the students and lecturers came from outside the Netherlands – the first Rector Magnificus, Ubbo Emmius, came from East Frisia in modern-day Germany, for instance – but at the same time there was already a close relationship between the University and the city and the surrounding region.\n\nThe development of the University came to a standstill at the end of the seventeenth and during the eighteenth century because of theological differences of opinion, a difficult relationship with the Regional Assembly and political problems that included the siege of the city by ‘Bommen Berend’ in 1672. On average two to three hundred students were registered with the University at any one time during this period. Petrus Camper, though, was a shining academic example during the second half of the eighteenth century and was famous far beyond the city limits as an anatomist, a fighter against rinderpest and the founder of the first outpatient’s clinic for surgical medicine.\n\nOpportunities and threats followed on each other’s heels during the nineteenth century. In 1815, at the same time as Leiden and Utrecht, the University gained recognition as a national college of higher education, but this was followed by discussions about closure. The situation improved markedly when a new main university building, the Academiegebouw, was constructed in 1850, a building that was largely financed by the people of Groningen. This made the fire that completely destroyed this building in 1906 even more poignant.\n\nIn the meantime, the Higher Education Act of 1876 had radically improved the position of the University, which was renamed the \"Rijksuniversiteit Groningen\" (RUG). Teaching took place in Dutch and Latin and the University was given a research as well as an educational duty.\n\nThe University of Groningen developed apace during the first decades of the twentieth century. The number of faculties and courses grew steadily while the number of students showed an explosive growth. When the University celebrated its first 300 years in 1914 there were 611 registered students; this had already grown to 1000 by 1924. After a drop back during the Depression, and in particular during the Second World War, the number of students grew rapidly from 1945 to reach 20,000 in 1994. At the present time there are about 30,000 students registered at the University of Groningen with the number of foreign students again growing steadily, and following the tradition set by the first Rector Magnificus, the number of German students and researchers has grown strongly in recent years.\n\nIn March 2015, the RUG signed an agreement with the China Agricultural University to establish a campus in the Chinese city of Yantai. This would have made the RUG the first Dutch university to open a campus in China. The plan was heavily criticised, mainly due to worries about the restriction of academic freedom caused by censorship in China. In January 2018, the plans were cancelled by the Executive Board of the UG, based on the \"insufficient support for the project\".\n\nIn 2016 the Dutch chemist Ben Feringa, who has spent most of his career at the University of Groningen, won the Nobel prize for his work on molecular motors.\n\nKey facts and figures about the University of Groningen are:\n\nThe University of Groningen is in the top 3 of European research universities in the fields of: Ecology, Material Sciences, Chemistry and Astronomy. Other strong research groups are in: Nanoscience, Physics, Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Medical Sciences, Neurosciences, Sociology, Philosophy, Theology, Archaeology and Arts. \n\nThe university operates under the BSA system, under which a first year undergraduate( bachelors) student must achieve a certain number of ECTS in order to progress to the second year. This varies from 30 ECTS to 45 ECTS among various degrees.\n\nThe University of Groningen is a member of the so-called Excellence Group of the best universities in Europe. The Excellence Group has 56 members, which is 1.3 percent of the approximately 4,500 European institutions of higher education.\n\n\nThe university's Center for Information Technology (CIT) houses an IBM Blue Gene/L supercomputer and data center of Target used by the LOFAR project as well as a Virtual Reality and 3D-visualisation center.\n\nThe University of Groningen is organized in eleven faculties that offer programmes and courses in the fields of humanities, social sciences, law, economics and business, spatial sciences, life sciences, and natural sciences and technology. Each faculty (\"cf.\", College in the USA or School in Europe) is a formal grouping of academic degree programmes, schools and institutes, discipline areas, research centres, and/or any combination of these drawn together for educational purposes. Each faculty offers Bachelor's, Master's, PhD, and Exchange programmes, while some also offer short certificate courses.\n\nSince 2014, the RUG also has a partly independent liberal arts college, University College Groningen (UCG).\n\n\nThe various faculties have been housed in old and new buildings around the city, particularly around the historic city center. Most of the faculties- including the Faculty of Law, Faculty of Arts, and the Faculty of Philosophy are located in and around the city center. The university's original building, which acts are the main administrative building, lies exactly in the center of the city at Broerstraat. The faculty of medical sciences is located close-by at the UMCG. The Faculties of Economics and Business, Spatial Sciences, and Science and Engineering is housed in the northern outskirts of the city, at Zernike Campus, named after Dutch Nobel Prize winner Fritz Zernike.\n\nThe university has libraries in three locations: the main one at the city center, one in the Duisenberg building in Zernike Campus, and one in the faculty of medicine, that includes a vast array of books and online material for students. The library at the city center also has a Starbucks in its premises. The university has also recently opened another campus in Leeuwarden, Friesland, referred to as \" Campus Fryslan\" that offers multiple disciplines, in both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. \n\nThe city of Groningen boasts a remarkable student life, and is known as the student city of the Netherlands; around one-third of the city's residence are students at either The University of Groningen or at Hanze. The city is tailored around students, and is known to be very welcoming. The university, through ACLO offers a wide range of sporting activities, and courses. Almost each sport has its own association, and offers the use of its facilities at discount rates for students.\n\nThe university, also has multiple student societies, such as the Cleopatra Algemene Studentenvereniging that organize social events for its members, as well as student and study associations, that are mostly concerned with specific faculties and courses.\n\nThe use of cycles as the means for transport is particularly prevalent for locals and students alike, and has integrated, labelled bike paths from the city center to Zernike. The city is popularly referred to as \" The World Cycling City\" because of this.\n\nThe University of Groningen, much like most universities in Europe, does not have student accommodation themselves. It does, however, offer students with accommodation via SSH Student Housing- which operates student houses in various locations in Groningen, and various other cities within the Netherlands. A significant number of students live in private accommodations within the city, however. A recent addition to the housing options for students is The Student Hotel as well. The Dutch government does has very strict laws for private accommodations for both the tenants( students) and the landlords, so that fair rent prices, and renting conditions can be maintained.\n\nIn 2018, the university received national attention due to the housing crisis in the city of Groningen. Due to the fact that most incoming students at the university are primarily from other parts of the country, or the world, there has been a lack of housing options for students.\n\nHumanities and Social Sciences \n\nLaw\n\nEconomics & Business\n\nLife Sciences\n\nScience & Technology\n\nThe University of Groningen’s Graduate Schools are organized somewhat different from its international counterparts. The main difference is that the Graduate Schools do not contain all Master’s programmes; Graduate Schools manage and facilitate the two-year Master's programmes: top master's degree programmes and Research master's degree programmes. \n\nNotable alumni of the University of Groningen include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20718804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20718804", "title": "Wildlife Act 1953", "text": "Wildlife Act 1953\n\nWildlife Act 1953 is an Act of Parliament in New Zealand.\n\nUnder the act, the majority of native New Zealand vertebrate species are protected by law, and may not be hunted, killed, eaten or possessed. Violations may be punished with fines of up to $100,000.\n\nWildlife are classified under a number of schedules; all vertebrate species not included in these lists are protected by default. The schedules are periodically amended; for example the kea was granted full protection in 1984, whereas the spur-winged plover (masked lapwing), an Australian species which naturally established itself in New Zealand in the 1930s, had its protected status removed in 2012.\n\nThe Act also provides for wildlife sanctuaries, refuges and management reserves.\n\nThis group comprises commonly hunted waterfowl (mallard, grey duck, Australasian shoveler, paradise shelduck, black swan and pukeko) and introduced game birds, including pheasant, quail, chukar and partridge. These birds may be hunted during the open season, which begins in early May and lasts approximately four weeks.\n\nThis group comprises just the little owl, the silvereye and, on the Chatham Islands only, the brown skua (\"Catharacta antarctica lonnbergi\"). These birds may be shot by landowners if they pose a threat to crops or livestock, without any need for a permit from the Department of Conversation. This group formerly included the kea, which has been blamed for attacking sheep, but is now considered endangered.\n\nThese may be culled on application to the Department of Conservation, subject to whatever restrictions are imposed. This group includes the Australasian harrier, grey teal, grey-faced petrel, mute swan, black shag, little shag, pied shag and sooty shearwater.\n\nThis group formerly consisted of wild horses, which had some degree of protection in the Kaimanawa range, but is now obsolete.\n\nThis is a large group that includes many common domestic and introduced species, many of which are regarded as pests. It includes numerous land mammals and birds, three species of Australian \"Litoria\" tree frogs, the Australian rainbow skink (\"Lampropholis delicata\") and the North American red-eared slider turtle (\"Trachemys scripta elegans\"). The only species on this list that occur naturally in New Zealand are the southern black-backed gull and the spur-winged plover (masked lapwing), both of which present a significant risk of bird strike.\n\nThis group consists of the chamois, the Himalayan tahr, and all species of deer (the family Cervidae), goats (the genus \"Capra\"), and pigs (the genus \"Sus\"). All are considered harmful to New Zealand's native forests and may be hunted without restriction.\n\nUnder the original legislation, the word \"animal\" referred only to land-based vertebrates. Schedule 7 was added to give protected status to a number of native invertebrates, most of them endangered. The species include two native grasshoppers, many species of beetle including the Cromwell chafer and the coxella weevil, all giant weta, the katipo spider, the Nelson cave spider, and several kinds of native snails including all \"Powelliphanta\" and \"Placostylus\".\n\nSimilarly, this list gives protected status to a number of marine species, including some corals (notably black coral), several sharks, and two species of grouper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8440412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8440412", "title": "Yunker", "text": "Yunker\n\nYunker Kotei Eki, , is a health tonic similar to Lipovitan and produced by the Sato Pharmaceutical Corporation in Japan. It was first produced in 1967, and is widely available at drug stores throughout Japan. Yunker contains Chinese herbal ingredients and caffeine and is marketed to the Japanese workforce to combat fatigue.\n\nIt is one of 33 tonics manufactured by Sato for a range of ailments related to fatigue. The Yunker line of tonics is also sold in the U.S., Europe and Singapore, but the contents of some tonics have been altered to meet domestic regulations.\n\nA USDA report from 2002 reported that exports of \"Yunkeru Kotei-eki\" to six countries including the United States, Germany, Canada and Singapore were continuing to grow, and that Sato planned to start exports to Thailand later that year.\n\nYunker Kotei contains the following ingredients (quantities are quoted per 30ml daily dose):\n\n\n\n"}
