{"id": "32911707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32911707", "title": "1929 Santos FC season", "text": "1929 Santos FC season\n\nThe 1929 season was the eitheenth season for Santos FC.\n\n"}
{"id": "18175422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18175422", "title": "1994–95 Moldovan National Division", "text": "1994–95 Moldovan National Division\n\nStatistics of Moldovan National Division in the 1994-1995 season.\n\nIt was performed in 14 teams and Zimbru Chişinău won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "17814941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17814941", "title": "2002 Continental Championships", "text": "2002 Continental Championships\n\n2002 Continental Championships may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51373104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51373104", "title": "2016 Crescent Vårgårda UCI Women's WorldTour", "text": "2016 Crescent Vårgårda UCI Women's WorldTour\n\nThe 2016 Crescent Women World Cup Vårgårda Team time trial was the ninth edition of the now famous women's team time trial event - the Vårgårda Team time trial. It also featured as the 14th round of the 2016 UCI Women's WorldTour.\n"}
{"id": "3204412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3204412", "title": "Bahamas at the 1964 Summer Olympics", "text": "Bahamas at the 1964 Summer Olympics\n\nThe Bahamas competed at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. The nation won its first ever Olympic gold medal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31704627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31704627", "title": "Belgian Bowl XII", "text": "Belgian Bowl XII\n\nThe Belgian Bowl XII was played in 1999 and was won by the Antwerp Diamonds.\n\n"}
{"id": "509595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509595", "title": "Blocking (martial arts)", "text": "Blocking (martial arts)\n\nIn martial arts, blocking is the act of stopping or deflecting an opponent's attack for the purpose of preventing injurious contact with the body. A block usually consists of placing a limb across the line of the attack.\n\nStyles and types of blocking, as well as terminology, vary widely among the various martial arts. In Japanese martial arts such as Karate, these techniques are referred to as \"uke waza\". Examples include \"age uke\" (rising block) and \"shuto uke\" (knife hand guarding block). In Korean martial arts such as Taekwondo, these techniques are referred to as \"makgi\"(막기), with some examples being \"chukyeo makgi\" (rising block) and \"sonkal daebi makgi\" (knifehand guarding block). Some martial arts, such as Capoeira, reject blocking techniques completely as they consider them too inefficient. In Capoeira, they use evasion instead of blocking.\n\nAn inside block deflects a strike away from the defender and away from the attacker. For example, against a straight punch to the face, an inside forearm block would aim to meet the inside of the forearm of the attacker, pushing the punch outward, leaving the opponents facing each other which also helps in counterattack.\n\nAn outside block deflects a strike away from the defender and across the attacker. For example, against a straight punch to the face, an outside forearm block would aim to meet the outside forearm of the attacker, pushing the punch outward, leaving the defender slightly to the side of the strike causing it to miss. Typically, because of the angles involved, inward blocks are used against attacks aimed at the torso.\n\nA high block deflects a downward strike such as a hammer fist, a stick or a face punch from a taller opponent. The chamber starts low with the hand in a relaxed fist across the abdomen with the palm facing inward and in high block, face punch should be blocked in diagonal shape\n\nA low block deflects an inward strike directed at the stomach or ribs such as a roundhouse kick.\n\nParries are executed against the attacker by quickly pushing their arm or leg away to the right or left side(as it is considered as a block) and counterattacking when the procedure is done.\n\nMore complex blocks include the circular block, X block, high X block, twin forearm guarding block, hooking block, and pole block.\n\nOffensive techniques can also be used to block. For example, a kick or palm strike can be used to neutralize an incoming blow. It is also common to use the knee to block leg attacks from an opponent.\n\nBlocks are considered by some to be the most direct and least subtle of defensive techniques. Other ways of avoiding attack include evasion, trapping, slipping and deflection of the oncoming attack; this approach is often referred to as the application of 'soft' techniques (see hard and soft (martial arts)).\n\n"}
{"id": "2087922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087922", "title": "Blood doping", "text": "Blood doping\n\nBlood doping is the practice of boosting the number of red blood cells in the bloodstream in order to enhance athletic performance. Because such blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the muscles, a higher concentration in the blood can improve an athlete’s aerobic capacity (VO max) and endurance. Many methods of blood doping are illegal, particularly in professional sports.\n\nBlood doping is defined as the use of illicit products (e.g. erythropoietin (EPO), darbepoetin-alfa, hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) stabilizers) and methods (e.g. increase aerobic capacity by maximizing the uptake of O) in order to enhance the O transport of the body to the muscles.\n\nThe body undergoes aerobic respiration in order to provide sufficient delivery of O to the exercising skeletal muscles and the main determining factors are shown in figure 1. The rate of maximum O uptake (Omax) depends on cardiac output, O extraction and hemoglobin mass. The cardiac output of an athlete is difficult to manipulate during competitions and the distribution of cardiac output is at the maximum rate (i.e. 80%) during competitions. In addition, the O extraction is approximately 90% at maximal exercise. Therefore, the only method to enhance the physical performance left is to increase the O content in the artery by enhancing the hemoglobin mass. In other words, hemoglobin concentration and blood volume contribute to hemoglobin mass.\n\nMany forms of blood doping stem from the misuse of pharmaceuticals. These drug treatments have been created for clinical use to increase the oxygen delivery when the human body is not able to do so naturally.\n\nErythropoietin (EPO) is a glycoprotein hormone produced by the interstitial fibroblasts in the kidney that signal for erythropoiesis in bone marrow. The increased activity of a Hemocytoblast (RBC stem cell) allows the blood to have a greater carrying capacity for oxygen. EPO was first developed to counteract the effects of chemotherapy and radiation therapy for cancer patients. EPO also stimulates increased wound healing. Because of its physiological side effects, particularly increased hematocrit, EPO has become a drug with abuse potential by professional and amateur cyclists.\n\nHypoxia-inducible factor stabilizer (HIF stabilizer) is a pharmaceutical used to treat chronic kidney disease. Like most transcription factors, the HIF transcription factor is responsible for the expression of a protein. The HIF stabilizer activates the activity of EPO due to anemia induced hypoxia, metabolic stress, and vasculogenesis—the creation of new blood vessels. HIF stabilizers as used by cyclists in combination with cobalt chloride/desferrioxamine stimulate and de-regulate the natural production of erythropoietin hormone. At physiologically low PaO around 40 mmHg, EPO is released from the kidneys to increase hemoglobin transportation. The combination of drugs consistently releases EPO due to increased transcription at the cellular level. The effect wears off when the HIF stabilizers, cobalt chloride/desferrioxamine is excreted and/or decayed by the body.\n\nMyo-inositol trispyrophosphate (ITPP), also known as compound number OXY111A, is an allosteric effector of hemoglobin which causes a rightward shift in the oxygen–hemoglobin dissociation curve, increasing the amount of oxygen released from red blood cells into surrounding tissue during each passage through the cardiovascular system. ITPP has been a subject of anti-doping research in both humans and racehorses.\n\nBlood transfusions can be traditionally classified as autologous, where the blood donor and transfusion recipient are the same, or as allogeneic/homologous, where the blood is transfused into someone other than the donor. Blood transfusion begins by the withdrawal of 1 to 4 units of blood (1 unit = 450 ml of blood) several weeks before competition. The blood is centrifuged, the plasma components are immediately reinfused, and the corpuscular elements, principally red blood cells (RBCs), are stored refrigerated at 4 °C or frozen at −80 °C. As blood stored by refrigeration displays a steady decline in the number of RBCs, a substantial percentage, up to 40%, of the stored RBCs may not be viable. The freezing process, conversely, limits the aging of the cells, allowing the storage of the blood for up to 10 years with a 10% to 15% loss of RBCs. Stored RBCs are then reinfused, usually 1 to 7 days before a high-endurance event. As a significant amount of iron is removed by each autologous transfusion, an adequate time for recovery of not less than 3 days from the last donation, and appropriate iron supplements, are usually required for patients undergoing autologous donations. Nearly 50% of autologous donations are not used by the donor and are discarded, as current standards do not allow transfusion of these units to another patient for safety reasons.\n\nBiochemical and biotechnological development has allowed novel approaches to this issue, in the form of engineered O carriers, widely known as “blood substitutes.” The blood substitutes currently available are chiefly polymerized haemoglobin solutions or haemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (HBOCs) and perfluorocarbons (PFCs).\n\nHemoglobin-based oxygen carriers are intra/ inter-molecularly engineered human or animal hemoglobins, only optimized for oxygen delivery and longer intravascular circulation. The presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate within erythrocytes maintains the normal affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. HBOCs do not contain erythrocytes and lose this interaction, thus, unmodified human HBOC solutions have a very high oxygen affinity which compromises their function. Chemical methods developed to overcome this problem have resulted in carriers that effectively release oxygen at the physiological pO of peripheral tissues.\n\nA common feature of all HBOCs is their resistance to dissociate when dissolved in media, which contrasts hemoglobin of natural dissociation under non-physiological conditions. HBOCs may hypothetically supply greater benefits to athletes than those provided by the equivalent hemoglobin in traditional RBC infusion. Recent developments have shown that HBOCs are not only simple RBC substitutes, but highly effective O donors in terms of tissue oxygenation. Additional effects include increases in blood serum iron, ferritin, and Epo; up to 20% increased diffusion of oxygen and improved exercise capacity; increased CO production; and lower lactic acid generation in anaerobic activity. HBOCs have been shown in trials to be extremely dangerous in humans. Because Haemoglobin-based oxygen carriers increase both the risk of death and risk of myocardial infarction clinical trials were ended. They are not commercially available in the US or Europe and there is no approved use for them.\n\nPFCs, also known as fluorocarbons, are inert, water-insoluble, synthetic compounds, consisting primarily of carbon and fluorine atoms bonded together in strong C–F bonds. PFCs are substantially clear and colorless liquid emulsions that are heterogeneous in molecular weight, surface area, electronic charge, and viscosity; their high content of electron-dense fluorine atoms results in little intramolecular interaction and low surface tension, making such substances excellent solvents for gases, especially oxygen and carbon dioxide. Some of these molecules can dissolve 100 times more oxygen than plasma. PFCs are naturally hydrophobic and need to be emulsified to be injected intravenously. Since PFCs dissolve rather than bind oxygen, their capacity to serve as a blood substitute is determined principally by the pO gradients in the lung and at the target tissue. Therefore, their oxygen transport properties differ substantially from those of whole blood and, especially, from those of RBCs. At a conventional ambient pO of 135 mmHg, the oxygen content of 900 ml/l perfluorocarbon is less than 50 ml/l, whereas an optimal oxygen content of 160 ml/l, which is still lower than that of whole blood in normal conditions, can be achieved only by a pO greater than 500 mmHg. In practice, at a conventional alveolar pO of 135 mmHg, PFCs will not be able to provide sufficient oxygenation to peripheral tissues.\n\nDue to their small size, PFCs are able to permeate circulation where erythrocytes may not flow. In tiny capillaries, PFCs produce the greatest benefit, as they increase local oxygen delivery much more efficiently than would be expected from the increase in oxygen content in larger arteries. In addition, as gases are in the dissolved state within PFCs, it pO promotes efficient oxygen delivery to peripheral tissues. Since the mid-1980s, improvements in both oxygen capacity and emulsion properties of PFCs have led to the development of second-generation PFC-based oxygen carriers; two PFC products are currently being tested in phase III clinical trials.\n\nTransition metal complexes are widely known to play important roles in erythropoiesis; as such, inorganic supplementation is proving to be an emerging technique in blood doping. Particularly of note is the cobalt complex, cobalamin (Vitamin B) commonly used as a dietary supplement. Cobalamin is an important complex used in the manufacture of red blood cells and thus was of interest for potential use in blood doping. Experimental evidence, however, has shown that cobalamin has no effect on erythropoiesis in the absence of a red blood cell/oxygen deficiency. These results seem to confirm much of what is already known about the functioning of cobalamin. The signaling pathway that induces erythropoietin secretion and subsequently red blood cell manufacture using cobalamin is O dependent. Erythropoietin is only secreted in the kidneys when there is an O deficiency, as such, RBC manufacture is independent of the amount of cobalamin administered when there is no O deficiency. Accordingly, cobalamin is of little to no value in blood doping.\n\nMore potent for use in blood doping is Co (administered as Cobalt(II) chloride, CoCl). Cobalt chloride has been known to be useful in treating anemic patients. Recent experimental evidence has proved the efficacy of cobalt chloride in blood doping. Studies into the action of this species have shown that Co induces hypoxia like responses, the most relevant response being erythropoiesis. Co induces this response by binding to the N-terminus (loop helix loop domain) of the Hypoxia inducing transcription factors HIF-1α and HIF-2α, and thus stabilizes these protein complexes. Under normal O conditions, HIFs are destabilized as proline and asparagine residues are hydroxylated by HIF-α hydroxylases, these unstable HIFs are subsequently degraded following a ubiquitin-proteosome pathway, as such, they cannot then bind and activate transcription of genes encoding Erythropoietin (EPO). With Co stabilization, degradation is prevented and genes encoding EPO can then be activated. The mechanism for this Co N terminus stabilization is not yet fully understood. In addition to N-terminus binding, it has also been hypothesized that replacement of Fe by Co in the hydroxylase active site could be a contributing factor to the stabilizing action of Co. It is understood however, is that Co binding permits Ubiquitin binding but prevents proteosomal degradation.\n\nIn 2004, a test for detection allogeneic/homologous blood transfusion doping was implemented. Flow Cytometry is the method of choice. By examining markers on the surface of blood cells, the method can determine whether blood from more than one person is present in an athlete’s circulation. The test utilizes 12 antisera directed against the blood group antigens, obtained from donor plasma. The antigens are labeled with secondary antibodies, which are conjugated with phycoerythrin to label IgG or IgM-coated RBCs and enhance the detection by flow cytometry The flow cytometry is able to detect minor variance in blood group antigens. The assessment was able to distinguish the blood of subjects who had earlier received at least one unit of allogeneic blood. This technique is able to detect small (<5%) populations of cells that are antigenically distinct from an individual’s own RBCs.\n\nAutologous blood doping detection is done indirectly via CO rebreathing technique to measure the nonphysiologic increases in Hb mass. The principle of CO rebreathing method used currently requires an O-CO gas mixture inhalation for about 10-15mins. By measuring the difference in carboxyhemoglobin concentration (HbCO) before and after rebreathing, the volume of CO and the binding capacity of Hb for CO ( 1.39ml g-1), total Hb mass can be calculated. This detection method is problematic for an athlete as it is not desirable to breathe in CO shortly before a competition, which may potentially affect their performances.\n\nDetection method for hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (i.e. Oxyglobulin) is done in four separate steps. Step one involves the elimination of abundance proteins in the blood samples by immunodepletion (i.e. Proteo Prep 20 plasma immunodepletion kit). This process ensures that other proteins (i.e. albumin and immunoglobulin) do not interfere with capillary electrophoresis (CE) separation by changing the ionization. Second step, CE separation is done under certain condition, in this case background electrolyte consisting of ammonium formate (75mM at pH 9.5) in order to provide sufficient resolution between HBOC and Hb. Third step, UV/Vis detection was performed at 415 nm to selectively detect HBOC and HB. Fourth step, Time-of-flight (TOF) or Mass spectrometer(MS) allowed increase accuracy in selectivity between hemoproteins and other proteins and definite determination of HBOC uptake. The detection limits for CE-UV/Vis at 415 nm and CE-ESI-TOF/MS results to be 0.20 and 0.45g/dL for plasma respectively.\n\nCo can be detected by laboratory blood analysis if the intake amount is greater than 400 μg per day. As the whole blood concentration is greater than 1 μg/L and the urinary concentration is greater than 10 μg/L after at least 10 days of administration. The dose, which increases the red blood cell production to approximately 16%-21%, is about 68 mg Co per day for at least 10 days of oral administration. The predicted whole blood concentration of cobalt exceeds 200 μg/L two hours after the last intake and the average urine concentrations of cobalt exceed 3000 μg/L within 24 hours of intake. A study was carried out where 23 subjects were to take 900 μg per day in the form of CoCl for 10 days. The model predictions were then compared to the study. The result shows that the model prediction for blood and urine are between the median concentration of the male and female groups, which indicate the model predictions sufficiently represent the test population as a whole.\n\nAs early as 1947, military research scientists were studying ways to increase fighter pilots’ tolerance for hypoxia at high altitude. In one such study, red blood cells were transfused into ten males at the US Naval Research facility, resulting in increased oxygen capacity.\n\nIn 1993, U.S. Special Forces commanders at Fort Bragg started experimenting with blood doping, also known as blood loading. Special Forces operators would provide two units of whole blood, from which red blood cells would be extracted, concentrated, and stored under cold temperatures. 24 hours before a mission or battle, a small amount of red blood cells would be infused back into the soldier. Military scientists believe that the procedure increases the soldiers’s endurance and alertness because of the increase in the blood's capability to carry oxygen.\n\nIn 1998, the Australian Defence Forces approved this technique for the Special Air Service Regiment. Senior nutritionist at the Australian Defence Science and Technology Organization Chris Forbes-Ewan is quoted as saying that, unlike in sport, \"all's fair in love and war.\" \"What we are trying to gain is an advantage over any potential adversary,\" Forbes-Ewan said. In this study, over 50 performance-enhancing drugs and techniques were rejected. The six that were approved are caffeine, ephedrine, energy drinks, modafinil, creatine, and blood-loading.\n\nBlood doping started in the late 1960s but was not outlawed until 1986. While it was still legal, it was commonly used by middle and long-distance runners. The first known case of blood doping occurred at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow as Kaarlo Maaninka was transfused with two pints of blood before winning medals in the 5 and 10 kilometer track races, though this was not against the rules at the time. Cyclist Joop Zoetemelk admitted to receiving blood transfusions during the 1976 Tour de France, where he finished second, although he claimed that these were intended to treat his anaemia rather than enhance his performance. The American cyclist Pat McDonough admitted to blood doping at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. Following the 1984 Summer games it was revealed that one-third of the U.S. cycling team had received blood transfusions before the games, where they won nine medals, their first medal success since the 1912 Summer Olympics. In the same year cyclist Francesco Moser used blood transfusions to prepare for his successful attempt to break the hour record. \"Blood doping\" was banned by the IOC in 1985, though no test existed for it at the time.\n\nThe Swedish cyclist Niklas Axelsson tested positive for EPO in 2000.\n\nThe American cyclist Tyler Hamilton failed a fluorescent-activated cell sorting test for detecting homologous blood transfusions during the 2004 Olympics. He was allowed to keep his gold medal because the processing of his sample precluded conducting a second, confirmatory test. He appealed a second positive test for homologous transfusion from the 2004 Vuelta a España to the International Court of Arbitration for Sport but his appeal was denied. Hamilton's lawyers proposed Hamilton may be a genetic chimera or have had a 'vanishing twin' to explain the presence of red blood cells from more than one person. While theoretically possible, these explanations were ruled to be of \"negligible probability\".\n\nThe Spanish-based Operación Puerto case in 2006 involved allegations of doping and blood doping of hundreds of athletes from Spain, Germany, Italy, Colombia, Australia, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and The USA.\n\nTour de France rider Alexander Vinokourov, of the Astana Team, tested positive for two different blood cell populations and thus for homologous transfusion, according to various news reports on July 24, 2007. Vinokourov was tested after his victory in the 13th stage time trial of the Tour on July 21, 2007. A doping test is not considered to be positive until a second sample is tested to confirm the first. Vinokourov's B sample has now tested positive, and he faces a possible suspension of 2 years and a fine equal to one year's salary. He also tested positive after stage 15.\n\nVinokourov's teammate Andrej Kashechkin also tested positive for homologous blood doping on August 1, 2007, just a few days after the conclusion of the 2007 Tour de France (a race that had been dominated by doping scandals). His team withdrew after the revelation that Vinokourov had doped.\n\nAccording to Russian investigators, 19-year-old New York Rangers prospect and Russian hockey player Alexei Cherepanov was engaged in blood doping for several months before he died on October 13, 2008, after collapsing on the bench during a game in Russia. He also had myocarditis.\n\nThe German speed skater and five-fold Olympic gold medalist Claudia Pechstein was banned for two years in 2009 for alleged blood doping, based on irregular levels of reticulocytes in her blood and the assumption that these levels were always highest during competitions. Her mean reticulocyte count over the ten years from 2000 to 2009 was 2.1% during top events like Olympic Games and during world championships. At world cup races the mean reticulocyte was 1.9% and during training phases 2.0%. The Court of Arbitration for Sport confirmed the ban in November 2009 in stating: \"...once the possibility of a blood disease has been safely excluded...\".\nIn September 2010, the Swiss Federal Supreme Court rejected the athlete's appeal, stating that Pechstein's inherited blood anomaly had been known before (\"die vererbte Blutanomalie bekannt gewesen sei\").\n\nOn May 20, 2011 Tyler Hamilton turned in his 2004 Olympic Gold Medal to the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency after admitting to doping in a \"60 Minutes\" interview.\n\nOn August 23, 2012 Lance Armstrong was stripped of his seven Tour de France titles and banned for life by cycling's governing body following a report from the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency that accused him of leading a doping program during his cycling career. He later admitted to using banned substances including blood doping with transfusions and EPO in an interview with Oprah Winfrey on January 17, 2013.\n\nIn June 2014, UFC fighter Chael Sonnen tested positive for EPO. One month later, another UFC fighter, Ali Bagautinov also tested positive for EPO.\n\nIn December 2017, Russia was banned from the 2018 Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea due to systematic doping among Russian Olympians.\n\nThe simple act of increasing the number of red blood cells in blood may be associated with hyperviscosity syndrome which is characterized by increased blood viscosity and decreased cardiac output and blood flow velocity which results in the reduction of peripheral oxygen delivery. For instance, an overdose of EPO can thicken blood into a highly viscous and artery-clogging sludge. This increases the chances of heart attack, stroke, phlebitis, and pulmonary embolism, which has been seen in cases where there is too much blood reintroduced into the blood stream. Because blood doping increases the volume of red blood cells, it effectively introduces a condition called polycythemia, a blood disorder that has known adverse outcomes such as heart attacks or strokes.\n\nBlood contamination during preparation or storage is another issue. Contamination was seen in 1 in every 500,000 transfusions of red blood cells in 2002. Blood contamination can lead to septicemia or an infection that affects the whole body.\n\nCertain medications used to increase red blood cells can reduce liver function and lead to liver failure, pituitary problems, and increases in cholesterol levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "13053542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13053542", "title": "Britain's Strongest Man", "text": "Britain's Strongest Man\n\nBritain's Man is an annual strongman event held in the United Kingdom. Competitors qualify for the final through regional heats and the winner is awarded the title of \"Britain's Strongest Man\". The competition is produced by TWI and serves as a qualifying event for the World's Strongest Man (\"WSM\") competition, also a TWI production.\n\nIn a history that has close parallels with that of the World's Strongest Man competition, the BSM competition has had a number of sponsors and, at different times, has had to vie with rival competitions that also claim to produce the strongest man in Britain as their champion. The inaugural competition was in 1979 and was organised by TWI. It was covered by the BBC. The final contest involved the field athletes Geoff Capes and Jim Whitehead, weightlifter Andy Drzewiecki, powerlifter Ray Nobile, Highland Games specialists Bill Anderson and Grant Anderson, wrestler Big Pat Roach, and Tosher Killingback; it was won by Geoff Capes. The contestants were there by invitation. The format continued until 1984. There was then a break of three years, from 1985 through 1988, before the competition returned in 1989. In 1986, there was a \"Britain's Most Powerful Man\" and, in 1988, a competition was organised by Geoff Capes and David Webster to find a successor to Geoff Capes, called the John Smith's Trial of Strength. The results of these competitions are often deemed to be equivalent to Britain's Strongest Man given the lack of a competition in those years. The IFSA, after its creation in the mid-nineties, managed the event but parted company with TW1 after the completion of the 2004 event. TW1 have managed to have the event televised since the BBC opted out in 2004, with Sky One covering it in 2005, and Five in 2007 and 2008. The competition is currently sponsored by Met-Rx. As of 2017, Channel 5 currently broadcasts an episode devoted to the Britain's Strongest Man contest as part of its annual World's Strongest Man coverage in late December.\n\nEvents for the competition include tyre flips, chain drags, Atlas stones and keg tossing.\n\n\nIn 2011, an event was organised in Boroughbridge advertised to allow spectators to see \"top British strongmen compete to take a step closer towards a place at World's Strongest Man\". The event was organised by multiple World's Strongest Man entrant Darren Sadler and the top two places, won by Rob Frampton and Jack McIntosh, received invitations to North Carolina to compete at the 32nd World's Strongest Man. Clash of the Giants was designed to fill the void left by the absence of the Britain's Strongest Man competition last held in 2008, much as the 1988 John Smith's Trial of Strength had been created following the discontinuation of the BSM in 1984. Unlike the BSM, which is the final stage of a knockout competition comprising a number of regional and national rounds, the Clash of the Giants was a singular event. Because there was no regional tiered competition preceding, it there was no prerequisite that the Clash of the Giants have a field of athletes representing each area of Britain and notably all the athletes competing were English. In addition, the three most successful British strength athletes actively competing at the time, namely Hollands, Felix and Shahlaei, had qualified for the WSM via international grand prix events and did not compete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50345058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50345058", "title": "C.A. San Cristóbal", "text": "C.A. San Cristóbal\n\nClub Atlético San Cristóbal, commonly known as Atlético San Cristóbal, are a Dominican Republic professional football club which competes in the Liga Dominicana de Fútbol. It is currently also known as AirEuropa San Cristóbal for sponsorship reasons. They are based in The club is based in San Cristóbal. The club was established in 2015 after the Dominican Football Federation announced the creation of a professional league, the Liga Dominicana de Fútbol.\n\n"}
{"id": "40111639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40111639", "title": "CRB Ben Badis", "text": "CRB Ben Badis\n\nChabab Reyadi Baladiyat Ben Badis (), known as CRB Ben Badis or CRBBB for short, is an Algerian football club based in Ben Badis, Sid Bel Abbés. The club was founded in 1936 and its colors are green, red and white. Their home stadium, the 1 november Stadium, has a capacity of some 8,000 spectators. The club is currently playing in the Ligue Nationale du Football Amateur.\n\n"}
{"id": "263035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263035", "title": "Calder Memorial Trophy", "text": "Calder Memorial Trophy\n\nThe Calder Memorial Trophy is an annual award given \"to the player selected as the most proficient in his first year of competition in the National Hockey League (NHL).\" It is named after Frank Calder, the first president of the NHL. Serving as the NHL's Rookie of the Year award, this version of the trophy has been awarded since its creation for the 1936–37 NHL season. The voting is conducted by members of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association at the conclusion of each regular season to determine the winner.\n\nThe Calder Memorial Trophy is named in honour of Frank Calder, the former President of the National Hockey League (NHL) from its inception in 1917 to his death in 1943. Although \"Rookie of the Year\" honors were handed out beginning in 1932–33, the Calder Trophy was first presented at the conclusion of the 1936–37 NHL season. After Calder's death in 1943 the trophy was renamed the Calder Memorial Trophy.\n\nIn 1990, Sergei Makarov of the Calgary Flames became the oldest player, at age 31, to win the trophy, even though he had played for HC CSKA Moscow (the \"Red Army\" team) in the Soviet Union. After that season, the rules for awarding the Calder were amended so that players could only be eligible if they were younger than 27 years old by September 15 of their rookie season.\n\nTo be eligible for the award, a player cannot have played any more than 25 regular season games previously in any single season, nor have played in more than six regular season games in each of two separate preceding seasons in \"any\" major professional league. The latter fact was perhaps most prominent when in the 1979–80 season, first-year phenom Wayne Gretzky was not eligible to win the Calder Trophy despite scoring 137 points (the previous rookie record at the time being 95), because he had played a full season the previous year in the World Hockey Association. In 1991, goaltender Ed Belfour won the Calder having previously appeared in 32 games with the Chicago Blackhawks over the 1988–89 and 1989–90 seasons. Belfour was eligible for the award because nine of those appearances came during the 1990 Stanley Cup playoffs, and the other 23 appearances were made during the 1988-89 season. The nine playoff games did not count towards the regular season eligibility requirements. In 2010–11, Logan Couture was eligible for the Calder Trophy despite having played in 40 previous games (25 in the regular season and 15 in the playoffs, both in 2009–10), while Alex Pietrangelo was ineligible despite having played only 17 previous games (eight in 2008–09 and nine in 2009–10, both times sent back to juniors).\n\nThe trophy has been won the most times by rookies from the Toronto Maple Leafs, who have won it on ten occasions, with the most recent being Auston Matthews in 2017. The voting is conducted at the end of the regular season by members of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association, and each individual voter ranks their top five candidates on a 10–7–5–3–1 points system. Three finalists are named and the trophy is awarded at the NHL Awards ceremony after the playoffs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28822119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28822119", "title": "Canal Olímpic de Catalunya", "text": "Canal Olímpic de Catalunya\n\nThe Canal Olímpic de Catalunya is a canal located in Castelldefels, Catalonia, Spain. Constructed in 1991, it hosted the canoe sprint events for the 1992 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "14849648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14849648", "title": "Cebu Dolphins", "text": "Cebu Dolphins\n\nThe Cebu Dolphins are a baseball team in the Baseball Philippines formed in 2007 as one of its charter members. Owned by Industrial Enterprises and assigned in the league's South Division, the Dolphins won their first championship during the league's Series 2.\n\nAlong with four national team members, the team is composed mostly of past and present players from the De La Salle Green Archers in the UAAP and a few coming from the Cebu province. The team is coached by DLSU and national softball team coach Isaac Bacarisas.\n\nCebu was among the top teams in Series 1 by posting a clean 4-0 elimination round slate only to lose to eventual champion Makati Mariners in the semis and then to the Manila Sharks for third place. The Dolphins, however, recovered in Series 2 by posting a seven-win, three-loss card after the elimination before ousting Dumaguete for the division title. They then went on to defeat the Sharks in a grueling three-game matchup which saw an impressive pitching effort by Joseph Orillana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28024182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28024182", "title": "Cheden Holt", "text": "Cheden Holt\n\nCheden Holt, situated on a hilltop about a mile from the rural village of Hambledon in Hampshire, was a home venue of the Hambledon Club. It was used for a single important match in 1776, when a Hampshire side played a Kent team. This is the only important match played at the ground, with no further mention of any other matches after 1776.\n\n"}
{"id": "22044336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22044336", "title": "Clearwater Athletic Field", "text": "Clearwater Athletic Field\n\nClearwater Athletic Field was a stadium in Clearwater, Florida. It was first used by professional baseball teams for spring training in 1923 and was the Phillies' first spring training ballpark in Clearwater. The grandstand sat approximately 2,000 and bleachers increased capacity to close to 3,000. Home plate was located on Pennsylvania Avenue, which ran south to north along the third base line, near Seminole Street. Left field ran parallel to Palmetto Street, and right field ran parallel to Greenwood Ave. The grandstand was destroyed by fire in April 1956. \n\nThe North Greenwood Recreation and Aquatic Complex now stands on the site of ballpark. On March 19, 2016, the site of the ballpark was recognized as a Florida Heritage Site and the location added to the state's heritage map. \n\nIn October 1922, the Brooklyn Dodgers agreed to train in Clearwater in 1923 provided the city would clear a field and construct grandstands. The Clearwater city council voted to issue $25,000 in bonds for construction. The Dodgers' move to Florida brought the number of major league clubs conducting spring training in the state to seven. The first game was played on March 15, 1923 between the Dodgers and the Boston Braves, who trained in St. Petersburg. The game was preceded by a parade to the park and Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis threw out the first pitch to Clearwater mayor Frank J. Booth. More than 4,000 fans saw the Dodgers defeat the Braves 12-7.\n\nIt was the spring training home of the Brooklyn Dodgers, Newark Bears (when the top minor league baseball teams held their own spring training), Cleveland, and the Philadelphia Phillies. The Florida State League's Clearwater Pelicans and the Amateur Softball Association national-champion Clearwater Bombers played their home games at Athletic Field. The Florida State Negro Baseball League Clearwater Black Sox played at the park in 1952.\n\nCleveland was sold in June 1946 to Bill Veeck and a note soon appeared in the \"Sporting News\" that the team was considering a spring training move to Tucson, Arizona for 1947. Paul Ficht, secretary of the Clearwater Chamber of Commerce, along with Mayor J.C. House, and City Manager F.L. Hendrix spoke with the St. Louis Browns, Newark Bears, Kansas City Blues, and Phillies about training in Clearwater in 1947. On July 27, 1946, Hendrix announced that the Phillies had accepted Clearwater's invitation to train at Athletic Field in 1947 on a one-year agreement. On March 7, 1947, the Phillies and city signed a 10-year deal for the Phillies to train in Clearwater. \n\nThe Phillies lost their first spring training game in 1947 at Athletic Field to the Detroit Tigers by a score of 13-1. The Phillies' attendance that spring was 13,291 which was ninth out of the ten teams training in Florida.\n\nOne of the largest crowds for a spring training game was on March 24, 1951, when the Phillies drew 3,851 against the Boston Red Sox.\n\nIt was replaced in 1955 by Jack Russell Stadium, into which both the Phillies and Bombers moved after the 1954 season. Even after moving into Jack Russell in 1955, the Phillies continued to practice at the field. \n\nFire destroyed the grandstand in 1956 but the field remained in use. The Baltimore Orioles team in the Winter Instructional League trained at Athletic Field in October 1959 and played their home games next door at Jack Russell Stadium.\n\nAt the time of the fire which destroyed the grandstands on April 12, 1956, it was reported that city managers planned to tear down the grandstands in 1957 and replace them with temporary bleachers. Ray Green Field was also used for parking for games at Jack Russell Stadium.\n\nThe North Greenwood Recreation and Aquatic Complex now stands on the site of the ballpark. In 2003, the city opened the Ray E. Green Aquatic Center, named in honor of the mayor. \n\nIn February 2018, football team D.C. United trained in Clearwater and used the grass fields at Walter C. Campbell Park between the recreation center and Jack Russell Memorial Stadium.\n\nThe ballpark is often identified as \"Clearwater Athletic Field\" or \"Clearwater's Athletic Field\". It was renamed Ray Green Field in honor of Ray Green, mayor of Clearwater from 1935 to 1938, who was instrumental in upgrading the facility during his tenure as mayor. In a 1980 interview, Eddie Moore, director of Clearwater parks and recreation from 1938 to 1978, recalled that the ballpark was called \"Brooklyn Field\" during the Dodgers' tenure. A 1939 news article recounts the Clearwater Senior Softball League playing at \"Brooklyn field\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50801110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50801110", "title": "Colombia at the 1988 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Colombia at the 1988 Summer Paralympics\n\nColombia competed at the 1988 Summer Paralympics in Seoul, South Korea. 17 competitors from Colombia won no medals and so did not place in the medal table.\n\n"}
{"id": "8166495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8166495", "title": "Combination Game", "text": "Combination Game\n\nThe Combination Game was a style of association football based around teamwork and cooperation. It would gradually favour the passing of the ball between players over individual dribbling skills which had been a notable feature of early Association games. It developed from \"scientific\" football and is considered to be the predecessor of the modern passing game of football. It originated in Britain and its origins are associated with early clubs: Sheffield FC (founded 1857), The Royal Engineers AFC (founded 1863), Queen's Park FC (founded 1867) and Cambridge University AFC (founded 1856). Each of these claimants is supported by \"retrospective\" accounts from men who were notable in the early history of football. They are considered below in the order of earliest \"contemporary\" evidence of \"scientific\" football playing styles.\n\nSee Offside (association football)\n\nThe change to the original offside rule enabled the gradual transition from a dribbling to a passing game. The introduction of a loose offside rule in the FA rules of 1866/67 - at the behest of representatives of Charterhouse and Westminster School - opened the way to forward passing. A similar rule had originally been part of the earlier Cambridge rules.\n\nThe earliest reference to the term \"combination game\" is made by C. W. Alcock in 1874 when he states that \"Nothing succeeds better than what I may call a 'combination game'.\" Alcock is referring to an early system of cooperation known as 'backing up' which he defines as a... \"process of following closely on a fellow player, to assist him if required, and to take the ball if he be attacked or prevented from continuing his onward course.\" Although a keen dribbler, Alcock is notable as being the first footballer ever to be ruled offside on 31 March 1866, confirming that players were probing ways of exploiting the new offside rule right from the start. As early as 1870 Alcock stated that he preferred playing football in a \"scientific\" way. An example of this was reported in a contemporary account of the November 1870 football match between England and Scotland \"Mr Alcock made a splendid run ... and being cleverly supported by Mr Walker, a goal was obtained ... by the latter\" A further contemporary reference shows that Alcock himself was playing \"in concert\" with his teammates during the 1871 international match between England and Scotland:\n\nThese examples of cooperation fit in with the system of backing up, which was prevalent in the London Association game during the 1860s and early 1870s. As systematic forms of passing became more prevalent in association football, Alcock's views on combination would understandably change. Writing in 1883 he gives the following definition of combination:\n\nThe earliest uses of the term \"scientific\" in the context of sport are in the description of the obligatory team game cricket (1833) The first use of the term \"scientific\" to describe football comes from Dragley Beck, Ulverston, Lancashire in 1839. This states:\n\n\"Scientific\" was first used to describe a modern football code in 1862 with reference to Rugby football: and in 1868 the \"great science\" of rugby football consisted of \"off your side, drop kicks punts, places and the other intricacies\" It is uncertain what these other intricacies were exactly, however it is, clear that this playing style was more systematic than in the past. References to scientific football come in accounts in the mid-1860s, particularly Sheffield FC (see later). Later contemporary accounts include internationals, for example the November 1870 association football match between England and Scotland which \"was of unusual excellence for the many scientific points it involved\" Alcock advocated scientific football as early as 1870 (see below).\n\nAccording to Alcock, Sheffield FA team provides the first evidence of combination, in particular the \"passing on\" of the Sheffield FA team and their Sheffield Rules. The offside system of the Sheffield rules allowed poaching or sneaking and the forward pass was permitted: Players known as \"kick throughs\" were positioned permanently near the opponents goal to receive these balls. For this reason the Sheffield style is known as the \"passing on game\". As early as January 1865 Sheffield F.C. was associated with scoring a goal through \"scientific movements\" against Nottingham A contemporary match report of November 1865 notes \"We cannot help recording the really scientific play with which the Sheffield men backed each other up\" Combination associated with Sheffield players is also suggested in 1868: \"a remarkably neat and quick piece of play on the part of K Smith, Denton and J Knowles resulted in a goal for Sheffield, the final kick being given by J. Knowles\" \n\nContemporary proof of passing occurs from at least January 1872. In January 1872 the following account is given against Derby: \"W. Orton, by a specimen of careful play, running the ball up in close proximity to the goal, from which it was returned to J. Marsh, who by a fine straight shot kicked it through\" This play taking place \"in close proximity to the goal\" suggests a short pass and the \"return\" of the ball to Marsh suggests that this was the second of two passes. This account also goes onto describe other early tactics: \"This goal was supplemented by one of T. Butler's most successful expositions of the art of corkscrew play and deceptive tactics which had the effect of exciting the risibility of the spectators\" A similar account also comes from January 1872: \"the only goal scored in the match was obtained by Sheffield, owing to a good run up the field by Steel, who passed if judiciously to Matthews, and the latter, by a good straight kick, landed it through the goal out of reach of the custodian\". This match (against Notts) also provided contemporary evidence of \"good dribbling and kicking\" particularly by W.E. Clegg. The condition of the ground, however, \"militated against a really scientific exhibition\". Their play in March 1872 was described as \"speed, pluck and science of no mean order\"\n\nSir Frederick Wall (who was the secretary of the Football Association from 1895–1934) states in his biography that the combination game was first used by the Royal Engineers A.F.C. in the early 1870s, in particular prior to their 1873 tour of Nottingham, Derby and Sheffield . Wall states that the \"Sappers moved in unison\" and showed the \"advantages of combination over the old style of individualism\". He goes on to state that they were the first \"to show the value of combination in Sheffield and Nottingham. Wall attended and regularly refers to the 1872 international match in his account (see below) and speaks very highly of many Scottish teams and players he does not attribute the combination game to either of these. The Engineers were also capable of dribbling the ball, for example one 1868 match reports states \"Lieut. Morris got off and dribbling the ball quite round his opponents, brought it in front of the goal and a kick from Lieut Dorward scored the first goal for the Royal Engineers\". \nBy early 1868 a contemporary match report states \"For the R.E.s Lieuts Campbell, Johnson and Chambers attracted especial attention by their clever play\"\n\nAs early as 1869 the Royal Engineers football club is documented in a contemporary match report as having \"worked well together\" and \"had learned the secret of football success - backing up\". In this match failure of the opposite team was attributed to \"a painful want of cooperation\" against the Engineers.\n\nAnother contemporary match report clearly shows that by 1870, ball passing was a feature of the Engineers style: \"Lieut. Creswell, who having brought it up the side then kicked it into the middle to another of his side, who kicked it through the posts the minute before time was called\"\n\nAlthough brief, contemporary match reports confirm that passing was a regular feature of the Engineers' style. For example, in a match of February 1871 against Crystal Palace it is noted that \"Lieut. Mitchell made a fine run down the left, passing the ball to Lieut. Rich, who had run up the centre, and who pinced another [goal]\" The Engineers used their team playing style with effect against the Wanderers, a side considered as early as 1870 to be the MCC of football. In a match of March 1871 against Wanderers their victory was due to \"irreproachable organisation\" and in particular that both their attacks and their backing up were both \"so well organised\" In November 1871 similar passing tactics are described in a contemporary account of a game against the Wanderers in which two goals were scored through tactical passing: \"Betts, however, soon seized his opportunity, and by a brilliant run down the left wing turned the ball judiciously to Currie, who as judiciously sent it flying through the strangers' goal in first rate style\" Later in the match it is reported that \"Lieut. G Barker, turning the ball to Lieut. Renny-Tailyour who planted it between the posts\" \"Turning\" the ball clearly points to the short pass.\n\nThere is evidence that opponents sometimes adjusted their playing style to counteract the organisation and passing of the Engineers. For example, in February 1872 against Westminster school a brief contemporary match report states that: \"The school captain took the precaution of strengthening his backs, deputizing HDS Vidal to cooperate with Rawson and Jackson and so well did these three play in concert... they succeeded in defying the... RE forwards\" What is most notable about this report is that it confirms that the Royal Engineers \"played beautifully together\" That the Engineers were the first side to break the trend of dribbling is shown in a contemporary account of their victory against Crystal Palace in early 1872. This said that: \"very little dribbling was displayed\" \n\nThe evidence above contains detailed descriptions of passing that are lacking in reports of the 1872 Glasgow international. For example, in a lengthy account \"The Scotsman\" newspaper makes no mention of passing or combination by the Scottish team and specifically describes the Scottish attacks in terms of dribbling: \"The Scotch now came away with a great rush, Leckie and others dribbling the ball so smartly that the English lines were closely besieged and the ball was soon behind\" and \"Weir now had a splendid run for Scotland into the heart of his opponents' territory.\" Although the Scottish team are acknowledged to have worked better together during the first half, this contemporary account acknowledges that in the second half England played similarly: \"During the first half of the game the English team did not work so well together, but in the second half they left nothing to be desired in this respect.\" The Scotsman concludes that the difference in styles in the first half is the advantage the Queens' Park players had \"through knowing each other's play\" as all came from the same club. Unlike the 1872 Glasgow international - which was drawn - the contemporary evidence above shows that the Engineers' team playing style benefited their team play by winning games. Similarly, the 5 March 1872 match between Wanderers and Queens park contains no evidence of ball passing.\n\nThe early accounts cited above all confirm that the Engineers were the first club to play a passing game of cooperation and organisation with both their forwards and their defence. Although they could also play rough - as would be expected for an army team - The Engineers are the first side to be considered to play the football \"beautifully\". All of these developments clearly occurred before and independent of the 1872 match between England and Scotland (Queen's Park FC). It is probable that Queen's Park FC observed the Engineers' passing game during one of their visits to England to participate in the 1871–72 FA Cup. Undoubtedly, their representatives in London were well aware of the Sheffield and Engineers' style.\n\nWithin the context of the emerging Association game in Scotland, the late historian and broadcaster Bob Crampsey compared the role of the Queen's Park club with that of the MCC in Cricket and the R&A Club in Golf. The Glasgow club's control of the early playing rules in Scotland, early management of the Scotland national team, and instigation of the Scottish Football Association and Scottish Challenge Cup provide evidence of their status as the ‘Premier’ or ‘Senior’ club of Scotland. Within this context, the club's development of a scientific form of combination, which would supersede existing playing styles, should be considered.\n\nThe most obvious outcome from the successful implementation of a football culture is the creation of a ‘legacy’. Due to the club's unceasing commitment to promote the game across Scotland, the Queen's Park playing style quickly became a 'Scottish style'. This playing style was imported into the north and midlands of England during the 1870s and 1880s, by the club itself, by other Scottish clubs, and by an increasing wave of Scottish footballers, who are often referred to by contemporary commentators as 'Scotch Professors', (because of the science of their game). The passing game, as a significant football culture, does not arrive in London until the creation of the London Corinthians in 1882 (in response to Scottish supremacy at international level). Between 1872 and 1887 Scotland would win 10 times and lose only twice against England in the annual internationals. The impact of the Scotch Professors in the midlands and north of England would lead to the legalisation of professionalism in 1885 and the development of league football in 1888.\n\nOn 9 August 1867, one month after the club's formation, the 'Rules of the Field' were discussed and accepted by the Queen's Park committee. They were based on the Association rules of the period but the club made a number of changes, the most notable being the offside rule. In 1866 the FA had moved from a rugby style offside rule preventing the ball from being passed forward to a three-man ruling. Queen's Park would adopt an even more radical approach, which by its design, would open up the game even more to the forward pass. The rule was recorded as follows,\n\nOffside only came into being 15 yards from the goal and even then only two defenders were required to be goal side for a player to be onside. The openness of the rule allowed players to be deployed across the field and encouraged the forward pass. In some respects the rule has similarity to the Sheffield code in that it enabled the long forward pass but, unlike the Sheffield code, it also prevented players from poaching or sneaking in front of goal. This carefully considered adaptation of the offside rule demonstrates the meticulous planning and organisation behind the club. It would win the club many admirers including William McGregor, 'Father of the Football League', who pays the following tribute,\n\nAlthough the game of the late 1860s was rudimentary, the basis for the club's playing style, and the men who would make it happen, all date from this early period. From this era the passing game of Queen's Park would evolve from simplistic to systematic forms of combination which would be copied throughout Scotland and the UK.\n\nAt a time when matches against other clubs were difficult to arrange, Queen's Park played internal matches dividing up its membership. As Richard Robinson in his early history of the club explains regular practice and instruction, key elements of the combination game, were already being undertaken.\n\nRobert Gardner (who captained and picked the Scotland team in the first official international match), as captain of the club, had a profound influence over tactics and team selections. In the match against Hamilton Gymnasium on 29 May 1869 he distributed cards to his team before the match showing each man where he must play. According to Robinson it was the regular practise games that enabled Queen's Park to develop their brand of combination football.\n\nCombination was very much in evidence in both the FA Cup tie against the Wanderers (5 March 1872) and in the international match against England (30 November 1872). In both games the club lined up in a 2-2-6 formation which would be their preferred line up for the remainder of the decade. In the international match Queen's Park organised the game and provided all of the Scotland players from within its own membership. The club would form the backbone of the Scotland national team throughout the 1870s and well into the 1880s. The tactic of combination was certainly successful in combating the superior weight and strength of the opposing players. In the game against Wanderers, the \"Field\" magazine wrote of Queen's Park,\n\nThe \"Herald\", in the same game noted that,\n\nIn the first official international match, the first specific reference to a collective passing culture is recorded within the history of Association football. The earliest contemporary reference, dating from 14 December 1872, appears in \"The Graphic\", a weekly illustrated newspaper published in London, and gives clear detail as to the opposing playing styles of the two teams:\n\nTestament to the combination style of football adopted by Queen's Park in the game is given in an eyewitness account by Walter Arnott, who would himself become a leading player for Queen's Park, Corinthians and Scotland during the 1880s and early 1890s. Arnott gives a clear description of the historic event at which he was present as a spectator. Once again the difference in weight is mentioned,\n\nIt would appear that the Queen's Park players, unable to match their opponents individually for strength, paired up to stop the dribbling runs of the England players when defending their own goal and played short passes on the run when attacking their opponent's goal. References alluding to the fact that the Scotland players 'worked from first to last well together, through knowing each other's play' can be found in the Scotsman. while the \"Glasgow Herald\" comments that, \"The strong point of the home club was that they played excellently well together.\"\n\nQueen's Park took their brand of football to other parts of Scotland, arranging exhibition matches in Dunbartonshire, Edinburgh and Dundee. The game that they promoted was quite different from the 'backing up' style of the Royal Engineers and the 'passing on' game of Sheffield. In a match against Vale of Leven, played in February 1873, the Glasgow club's systematic form of passing is highlighted in the match report,\n\nTheir passing game became a Scottish style which was distinctive from other parts of the UK. An early example of other Scottish clubs emulating the passing style and 2-2-6 formation of Queen's Park can be found in January 1874. The \"Glasgow Herald\"'s report on the match between the 3rd Lanark and Western clubs states,\n\nThe argument contained within the Royal Engineers section which opposes the Scottish view of the first international match focuses on the contemporary \"Scotsman\" newspaper article which gives reference to Scottish players dribbling the ball. The Scottish argument, however, contends that the playing style of the Queen's Park players, throughout the 1870s, accommodated both dribbling and passing. The evidence is certainly plentiful. This can be seen in The Graphic newspaper article which on the one hand refers to the Scottish team as being adept at passing the ball but on the other also presents evidence of Scottish players dribbling the ball,\n\nIn short, the playing tactics of Queen's Park FC allowed for the ball to be passed when possession was about to be lost or when a greater advantage could be attained; the dribble forward was augmented with a short pass to a teammate.\n\nWriting in the Football Annual in 1883, Charles W. Alcock observed that,\n\nTellingly C.W. Alcock, the FA's most influential administrator during the 1860s and 1870s, makes no reference in any of his numerous articles to the role of the Royal Engineers in developing a passing game. This confirms that the backing up system of the Engineers did not involve systematic passing.\n\nIn contrast to this, the newspaper article which features Queen's Park's victory over Wanderers in October 1875 (a match in which C.W. Alcock and the Anglo Scot A.F. Kinnaird played in for Wanderers) gives a concise description of the style of combination adopted by the club, particularly in the section which describes the second and third goals,\n\nIn the south east of England as the coordinated system of 'backing up' began to decline, the systematic passing game of Queen's Park would eventually win through. It was England's 5-1 defeat in 1882 to a Scotland team featuring seven Queen's Park players which led to Nicholas Lane Jackson, a prominent member of the FA, creating the famous Corinthians team. This direct reaction to the success of Queen's Park and the Scotland national team is quoted in the book \"Corinthians and Cricketers\",\n\nThe rudimentary 'passing on' game of Sheffield could not compete with the scientific short passing style championed by Queen's Park and at representative level the Glasgow FA would experience 14 wins and only one defeat against the Sheffield FA in the 17 fixtures played between 1874 and 1890. A good example of the difference in playing styles is cited in the Scottish Football Annual of 1877/78 which gives the following comments on the Glasgow v Sheffield match of 1877,\n\nQueen's Park's combination game, which had emerged as a general ‘Scottish style’ due to the club's high standing and her energetic promotion of the game, would spread south of the border, to the north and midlands of England, through the efforts of the club and with the arrival of the Scotch Professors. William McGregor, the Father of the Football League and president of Aston Villa FC, pays the following tribute,\n\nTeams throughout England, from Sunderland (the team of all the talents), Preston North End (Invincibles), Liverpool F.C. (the team of the Macs), Bolton Wanderers, Sheffield Wednesday and Blackburn Rovers in the north, to Aston Villa and Derby County in the Midlands, and Arsenal, Fulham and Southampton in the South were greatly influenced by the Scottish style through the importation of Scotch Professors, trained in the Queen's Park style. British administrators and coaches would take the Scottish short passing game overseas. These include Jimmy Hogan, John Cameron, Jock Hamilton, Fred Pentland, Alexander Watson Hutton, John Harley and John Dick.\n\nSee also Cambridge University AFC Parkers Piece\n\nIn a detailed investigation into the evolution of football tactics based upon contemporary accounts, Adrian Harvey of the University of London refers to the teams responsible for the \"early\" development of the passing game (including Sheffield, The Royal Engineers and \"the short passes beloved of [Scotland's] Queens Park\") but comes to the following conclusion about the finished, modern team product:\n\n\"Curiously, the side that was generally credited with transforming the tactics of association football and almost single-handedly inventing the modern game was not a professional team but the Cambridge University XI of 1882. Contemporaries described Cambridge as being the first \"combination\" team in which each player was allotted an area of the field and played as part of a team in a game that was based upon passing\"\n\nIn an 1891 discussion by CW Alcock on the history of a \"definite scheme of attack\" and \"elaborate combination\" in early football playing styles (including references to \"Northern\" teams, including Queens Park), Alcock states: \"The perfection of the system which is in vogue at the present time however is in a very great measure the creation of the last few years. The Cambridge University eleven of 1883 were the first to illustrate the full possibilities of a systematic combination giving full scope to the defence as well as the attack\" The 1883 Cambridge University side was the first team to introduce the \"pyramid\" 2 3 5 formation (two defenders, three midfield, and five strikers). Following the success of the \"Cambridge pyramid\" this formation became the norm for all football teams.\n\nAlcock goes onto say: \"It was about this time [1883] that the third half back came to be recognized as a necessity of the new formation, and though the Scotch players were slow to acknowledge an innovation emanating from England, which forms the keystone of the formation of to-day\"\n\nThe key role played by Cambridge University AFC in developing the modern game of football is also supported by the football historian Sir Montague Shearman.\n\nCombination by Cambridge University FC is suggested in contemporary accounts as early as December 1872: \"The goal for the university was the result of the combined efforts of Adams, Sparham and Smith\". In this account Cambridge \"played well together\".\n\nCombination play is also reported from other English sides, for example Derby School against Nottingham Forest, where a double pass is reported, the first of which is irrefutably a \"short\" pass. In this March 1872 match: \"Mr Absey dribbling the ball half the length of the field delivered it to Wallis, who kicking it cleverly in front of the goal, sent it to the captain who drove it at once between the Nottingham posts\" Other early passing sides include the Shropshire Wanderers in the 1875/76 season Nottingham Forest themselves also provide early evidence of passing, for example in February 1872 \"Mr Widowson ...several times ...crossed it to their front player. Certain Lancashire sides (for example Blackburn Olympic) have also been considered to be innovators of the early passing game. \"Systematic play\" was part of other sides, for example Trent College in April 1872\n\nPossibly the most important passing manoeuvre in the early history of the game was the pass from Reverend Vidal (\"the prince of the dribblers\") to M.P. Betts who then scored the only goal in the first ever FA cup final in March 1872. The report in the Field of this match suggests combination: this was ‘the fastest and hardest match that has ever been seen at The Oval ... some of the best play on their [Wanderers] part, individually and collectively, that has ever been shown in an Association game.\"\n\nThe Corinthians F.C. are also credited with bringing into being the modern passing football game, for example by Sir Frederick Wall. This is likely to have been due to the influence of the Cambridge team on the Corinthians' playing style.\n\nIn 1894, association football was taken to Brazil by Charles William Miller, a Brazilian of British descent. He had been sent to England for schooling and learned to play the game whilst at Banister Court School in Southampton, Hampshire.\n"}
{"id": "344462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344462", "title": "Cross country running", "text": "Cross country running\n\nCross country running is a sport in which teams and individuals run a race on open-air courses over natural terrain such as dirt or grass. Sometimes the runners are referred to as \"harriers\" (dogs). The course, typically long, may include surfaces of grass, and earth, pass through woodlands and open country, and include hills, flat ground and sometimes gravel road. It is both an individual and a team sport; runners are judged on individual times and teams by a points-scoring method. Both men and women of all ages compete in cross country, which usually takes place during autumn and winter, and can include weather conditions of rain, sleet, snow or hail, and a wide range of temperatures.\n\nCross country running is one of the disciplines under the umbrella sport of athletics, and is a natural terrain version of long-distance track and road running. Although open-air running competitions are pre-historic, the rules and traditions of cross country racing emerged in Britain. The English championship became the first national competition in 1876 and the International Cross Country Championships was held for the first time in 1903. Since 1973 the foremost elite competition has been the IAAF World Cross Country Championships.\n\nCross country courses are laid out on an open or woodland area. The IAAF recommends that courses be grass-covered, and have rolling terrain with frequent but smooth turns. Courses consist of one or more loops, with a long straight at the start and another leading to the finish line.\n\nTerrain can vary from open fields to forest hills and even across rivers. It also includes running down and up hills. Because of variations in conditions, international standardization of cross country courses is impossible, and not necessarily desirable. Part of cross country running's appeal is the distinct characteristics of each venue's terrain and weather, as in other outdoor sports like motor racing, cycling and golf.\n\nAccording to the IAAF, an ideal cross country course has a loop of laid out on an open or wooded land. It should be covered by grass, as much as possible, and include rolling hills \"with smooth curves and short straights\". While it is perfectly acceptable for local conditions to make dirt or snow the primary surface, courses should minimize running on roads or other macadamized paths. Parks and golf courses often provide suitable locations.\n\nWhile a course may include natural or artificial obstacles, cross country courses support continuous running, and do not require climbing over high barriers, through deep ditches, or fighting through the underbrush, as do military-style assault courses.\n\nA course at least full allows competitors to pass others during the race. Clear markings keep competitors from making wrong turns, and spectators from interfering with the competition. Markings may include tape or ribbon on both sides of the course, chalk or paint on the ground, or cones. Some classes use colored flags to indicate directions: red flags for left turns, yellow flags for right turns, and blue flags to continue straight or stay within ten feet of the flag. Courses also commonly include distance markings, usually at each kilometer or each mile.\n\nThe course should have of level terrain before the first turn, to reduce contact and congestion at the start. However, many courses at smaller competitions have their first turn after a much shorter distance.\n\nCourses for international competitions consist of a loop between 1750 and 2000 meters. Athletes complete three to six loops, depending on the race. Senior men compete on a 12-kilometre course. Senior women and junior men compete on an 8-kilometre course. Junior women compete on a 6-kilometre course.\n\nIn the United States, college men typically compete on or courses, while college women race for or . High school courses are generally . Middle school courses are usually or long.\n\nAll runners start at the same time, from a starting arc (or line) marked with lines or boxes for each team or individual. An official, 50 meters or more in front of the starting line, fires a pistol to indicate the start. If runners collide and fall within the first 100 meters, officials can call the runners back and restart the race, however this is done only once. Crossing the line or starting before the starting pistol is fired is considered a false start and most often results in disqualification of the runner.\n\nThe course ends at a finish line located at the beginning of a \"funnel\" or \"chute\" (a long walkway marked with flags) that keeps athletes single-file in order of finish and facilitates accurate scoring.\n\nDepending on the timing and scoring system, finish officials may collect a small slip from each runner's bib, to keep track of finishing positions. An alternative method (standard in the UK) is to have four officials in two pairs. In the first pair, one official reads out numbers of finishers and the other records them. In the second pair, one official reads out times for the other to record. At the end of the race, the two lists are joined along with information from the entry information. The primary disadvantage of this system is that distractions can easily upset the results, particularly when scores of runners finish close together.\n\nChip timing has grown in popularity to increase accuracy and decrease the number of officials required at the finish line. Each runner attaches a transponder with RFID to his or her shoe. When the runner crosses the finish line, an electronic pad records the chip number and matches the runner to a database. Chip timing allows officials to use checkpoint mats throughout the race to calculate split times, and to ensure runners cover the entire course. This is by far the most efficient method, although it is also the most expensive. The drawback to chip timing is its inability to separate a close finish properly. Chips times the feet, when the rule books say it is the torso that counts. It is technically possible for an athlete to fall across the finish line, legally crossing the finish line, but with their feet too far away from the sensor to have their finish recorded.\n\nContemporary races have now started to use fully automatic timing systems for photo finish accuracy to their results. This has dramatically improved the timing mechanisms of Cross Country over the last few years.\n\nScores are determined by summing the top four or five individual finishing places on each team. In international competition, a team typically consists of six runners, with the top four scoring. In the United States, the most common scoring system is seven runners, with the top five scoring. Points are awarded to the individual runners of eligible teams, equal to the position in which they cross the finish line (first place gets 1 point, second place gets 2 points, etc.). The points for these runners are summed, and the lowest score wins. Individual athletes, and athletes from incomplete teams (teams consisting of less than 5 athletes or teams) and individuals who have been disqualified are excluded from scoring. Ties are usually broken by the position of each team's sixth runner.\n\nThe lowest possible score in a five-to-score match is 15 (1+2+3+4+5), achieved by a team's runners finishing in each of the top five positions. If there is a single opposing team then they would have a score of 40 (6+7+8+9+10), which can be considered a \"sweep\" for the winning team. In some competitions a team's sixth and seventh runner are scored in the overall field and are known as \"pushers\" or \"displacers\" as their place can count ahead of other runners, giving other teams more points. In the above match, if there are two non-scoring runners and they came 6th and 7th overall, the opponent's score would be 50 (8+9+10+11+12). Accordingly, the official score of a forfeited dual meet is 15–50.\n\nBecause of differences between courses in running surface, frequency and tightness of turns, and amount of up and downhill, cross country strategy does not necessarily simplify to running a steady pace from start to finish. Coaches and cross country runners debate the relative merits of fast starts to get clear of the field, versus steady pacing to maximize physiological efficiency. Some teams emphasize running in a group in order to provide encouragement to others on the team, while others hold that every individual should run his or her own race. In addition, whether you run ahead 'of the pack' or behind it and pull ahead in the end is important, but can vary according to the runner's individual skill, endurance, and the length of the race. Runners should also account for food intake prior to the race. Most important, however, is the training beforehand.\n\nCross country running involves very little specialized equipment. Most races are run in shorts and vests or singlets, usually in club or school colours. In particularly cold conditions, long-sleeved shirts and tights can be worn to retain warmth without losing mobility. The most common footwear are cross country spikes, lightweight racing shoes with a rubber sole and five or more metal spikes screwed into the forefoot part of the sole. Spike length depends on race conditions, with a muddy course appropriate for spikes as long as . If a course has a harder surface, spikes as short as may be most effective. While spikes are suitable for grassy, muddy, or other slippery conditions, runners may choose to wear racing flats, rubber-soled racing shoes without spikes, if the course includes significant portions of paved surfaces or dirt road.\n\nFormal cross country competition traces its history to the 19th century and an English game called \"hare and hounds\" or \"the paper chase\". English schools started competing in cross country races in 1837, and established a national championship on December 7, 1867. It was held on Wimbledon Common in south-west London. It was the first cross country race that was considered \"open\", or could be run by anyone. Its original purpose was to imitate steeplechase for off-season training, and was considered a bit of a joke. The race was about 3.5 miles long, and went through very boggy and hilly terrain. The course was not well marked, and many competitors got lost. Matters were not helped by the fact that the race was run in the dark, as it began at 5 pm.\n\nCross country was contested as a team and individual event at the 1912, 1920 and 1924 Summer Olympics. Sweden took gold in 1912, and Finland, led by Paavo Nurmi, captured the gold in 1920 and 1924. During the 1924 race in the Paris heat wave, only 15 of the 38 competitors reached the finish. Eight of those were taken away on stretchers. One athlete began to run in tight circles after reaching the stadium and later knocked himself unconscious, while another fainted 50 meters from the finish. José Andía and Edvin Wide were reported dead, and medics spent hours trying to find all the competitors who had blacked out along the course. Although the reports of deaths were unfounded, spectators were shocked by the attrition rate and Olympic officials decided to ban cross country running from future Games. Since 1928, cross country has been contested only as the fifth discipline of the modern pentathlon, and until 2016 it was the only discipline where the Olympic competition was only part of the modern pentathlon. The sport will have a separate medal event at the 2018 Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires.\n\nEuropeans dominated early International Cross Country Championships, first held at the Hamilton Park Racecourse in Scotland on 28 March 1903. England won the first 14 titles, and 43 of 59 until the IAAF took over the competition in 1973. France was the next most successful country in the early years, winning 12 championships between 1922 and 1956. Belgium is the only other country to win at the International Cross Country Championship, capturing titles in 1948, 1957, 1961 and 1963. The English also dominated the individual competition, with an Englishman winning the individual title 35 times, including three wins by Jack Holden (1933–1935).\n\nThe first international cross country championship for women was held in 1931, and thirteen more times through 1972. England won 12 of these early championships, losing only in 1968 and 1969 (to the United States). American Doris Brown won five consecutive individual titles between 1967 and 1971.\n\nBeginning in 1973, the IAAF began hosting the renamed World Cross Country Championships each year. In 1975, the New Zealand men and United States women won, marking the first championships by non-European countries. In 1981 an African nation (Ethiopia) won the men's race for the first time, and a decade later an African nation (Kenya) won the women's race for the first time. Ethiopia or Kenya has captured every men's title since 1981 and every women's title since 2001. Through 2010, Kenya has won 40 World Cross Country Championships and Ethiopia has won 23.\n\n\n\nIn addition to the World Cross Country Championships, the IAAF sponsors six annual area-level competitions: the African Cross Country Championships, Asian Cross Country Championships, European Cross Country Championships, NACAC Cross Country Championships, Oceania Cross Country Championships and South American Cross Country Championships.\n\nBeyond championships, IAAF world cross country meetings include the Great Edinburgh International Cross Country, Cross Internacional de Itálica, Antrim International Cross Country, Cinque Mulini, Nairobi Cross, Chiba International Cross Country, Fukuoka International Cross Country meet, Eurocross and Almond Blossom Cross Country.\n\nCross country running is organized at the state level by the athletics association for each state. In Queensland this Queensland Athletics. In the Masters category (over 30), this is organized by Australian Masters Athletics. Brisbane will host the Australian Masters Nationals Championships, April 21–24, 2011 with the Cross Country hosted by Thompson Estate and Eastern Suburbs Athletics at Minnippi Parklands.\n\nThe cross country season in Brisbane is usually March – September. During the season there is usually one race each week in a different park, generally organized and hosted by one of the participating clubs. Photos of such events can be found here.\n\nCross country running is a far-reaching sport in Canada. In middle school, races are more serious and are divided by grade and gender. In high school, the races are far-reaching and tend to be the main talent pool (especially at the senior level) for university or national-level runners. At the university level, the sport is administered by Canadian Interuniversity Sport.\n\nThe organization of cross country running in the United Kingdom has continued to be mostly devolved to the four national associations: England, Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland. The sport is based around the clubs, which usually are mixed cross country and road running clubs. The English Cross Country Association is part of the Amateur Athletic Association.\n\nCross country running takes place from roughly September until March. Most matches are parts of different cross country leagues, which are organized on an \"ad hoc\" basis. These vary from large, high quality leagues, such as the London Metropolitan Cross Country League, Birmingham League, Hampshire League, Essex League and Surrey League (which is unusual in requiring ten runners to score) to small, local leagues (such as the Gloucestershire AA league), and individual clubs can (and typically are) member of several leagues.\n\nTypically there will be four or five fixtures a season. Also, there are county championships, area championships (North, South, and Midlands), the national championship (whose location rotates around the three areas), and the Inter-Counties Championship organise by the UK Counties Athletics Union, where runners compete for their counties and not their clubs.\n\nThere can be many additional inter-club matches, particularly among the older clubs. Most league matches are around long, and most championships 12 to 15 km (\"c.\" 7½ to 9 miles) long. Most clubs are mixed, though men's and women's races tend to be run separately.\n\nSecondary school aged students are also to compete at local schools races, with a set number of students qualifying for county level, at which there is a further race to be eligible for the relevant national schools cross country race (e.g. the English Schools Cross Country).\n\nAt university level, there is considerable competition available. University clubs typically compete both locally (via English Athletics) as well as between universities - with larger fixtures organized through BUCS.\n\nPrimary schools, although more often the juniors, also participate in cross country events and some areas of England have done so since the late 1960s. An example would be schools near Ouston, County Durham which compete as part of Chester-le-Street & District Primary Cross Country Association.\n\nUSA Track & Field hosts four annual national cross country championships. The USA Cross Country Championships, first held in 1890, include six races: masters women (8 km), masters men (8 km), junior women (6 km), junior men (8 km), open women (8 km) and open men (12 km). In addition to crowning national champions, the championships serve as the trials race to select the Team USA squad for the IAAF World Cross Country Championships. The USA Masters 5  a km Cross Country Championships, first held in 2002, incl men's race and a women's race. The USATF National Club Cross Country Championships, first held in 1998, feature the top clubs from across the United States as they vie for honors and bragging rights as the nation's top cross country team. The USATF National Junior Olympic Cross Country Championships, first held in 2001, has raced for boys and girls in five different two-year age divisions.\n\nMost American universities and colleges field men's and women's cross country teams as part of their athletic program. Over 900 men's cross country teams and over 1000 women's cross country teams compete in the three divisions of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Men usually race or , and women usually race or . The season culminates in men's and women's championships. Jr. College men often race 4 miles.\n\nEvery state offers cross country as a high school sport for boys and girls. Over 440,000 high school students compete in cross country each year, making it the sixth-most popular sport for girls, and seventh most popular for boys. The standard high school cross country race distance is for most states with California high schools running 3 mile races, though some counties run a shorter, 3- to 4-kilometer course for girls. Beginning in 1979, the Foot Locker Cross Country Championships have offered a national championship for high school cross country runners. Since 2004, the Nike Cross Nationals have offered an alternative national championship, focused on teams rather than individuals. A 2008 film, \"The Long Green Line\", documented the success of Joe Newton, cross country coach at York Community High School in Elmhurst, Illinois.\n\nWhile many middle schools (grades 6–8) in the U.S. offer cross country as a school sport, youth running clubs dominate in this age group. A typical middle school course is or , and races may not split up boys and girls. Few elementary schools in the U.S. have school teams, but many running clubs exist for youth runners. Youth running clubs compete in local, regional, and national championships sanctioned by the AAU or USATF. Course distances for this age group vary depending on the age of the athlete. Common championship distances are:\n\nMt. San Antonio College in Walnut, California hosts the largest cross country invitational in the United States, with over 22,000 runners from community colleges, high schools and elementary schools competing. The meet started in 1948 and continued today.\n\nOutstanding American cross country runners include Don Lash, who won seven consecutive national championships from 1934 to 1940, Pat Porter, who won eight titles from 1982 to 1989, and Steve Prefontaine, who won three NCAA national titles in cross country. Only two American athletes have won the IAAF World Cross Country Championships: Craig Virgin, who won in 1980 and again in 1981 and Lynn Jennings from 1990–1992.\n\nThe 2015 Disney movie \"McFarland, USA\" revolves around a cross-country team at a small high school.\nOne variation on traditional cross country is mountain running, which incorporates significant uphill and/or downhill sections as an additional challenge to the course.\n\n"}
{"id": "46616897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46616897", "title": "Eyes of Fate", "text": "Eyes of Fate\n\nEyes of Fate is a 1933 British sports fantasy film directed by Ivar Campbell and starring Allan Jeayes, Valerie Hobson and Terence De Marney. It is a quota quickie, made at Shepperton Studios. It is also known by the alternative title of All the Winners.\n\nA bookmaker seems to have struck it lucky when he comes across a newspaper containing the next day's horse racing results, but the paper also contains some more unsettling news.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21022851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21022851", "title": "Golf course superintendent", "text": "Golf course superintendent\n\nA golf course superintendent is a person who professionally manages the labor, time, materials and financial resources needed to care for the turfgrass and landscaped grounds on a golf course. Golf course superintendents have also been referred to as greenskeepers and turf managers. Golf course superintendents are concerned with the environmental health of the golf course, the sporting needs of the players and the financial sustainability of the golf club or country club for which they work. Golf course superintendents communicate the status of the grounds and maintenance resources to members of the club’s management, owners or board of directors, green chairs and committees, golfers, vendors, suppliers, golf professionals, golf course architects and others in the golf industry. Their management strategies must also align with the golf club business’ environmental and philanthropic role in the community. \n\nGolf course superintendents carefully monitor the natural weather patterns, environment and other influences that affect the playing areas and landscapes with which golfers interact. Golf course superintendents monitor the health of the golf course environment through careful study, diagnosis and treatment of disease and injury to the golf course’s turfgrass fairways, tees and greens areas, as well as bunkers, areas of water hazard, naturalized areas and trees. Their skilled management of the course is accomplished through a detailed knowledge of biology, chemistry, plant pathology and entomology. Golf course superintendents can be officially certified by the Golf Course Superintendents Association of America (GCSAA).\n\nA Certified Golf Course Superintendent is one that has voluntarily met the requirements set forth by the GCSAA to receive the professional distinction of a CGCS. The requirements to qualify for eligibility into the certification program vary depending on years of education, focus of the education, continuing education credits received, and the number of years as a class \"A” Superintendent. Once eligible, one must complete a portfolio of work samples, case studies, and skill statements. This portfolio must be completed and approved by two existing Certified Superintendents. In addition to the completed portfolio, a rigorous closed book exam must be passed. Finally, the superintendents current facility must be inspected, evaluated, and \"passed\" by two current Certified Superintendents. Once certified, superintendents must partake in a required amount of education classes and service activities as well as uphold a code of ethics, specific to those of the CGCS distinction.\n\nGolf course superintendents skillfully maintain a course’s turfgrass, which is considered to be a manufactured product because it is specifically planted, raised and maintained to provide players with a surface on which to play golf. There is a science-based process behind the turfgrass they produce which involves various steps and stages throughout the year. The average golf course superintendent makes between $70–80,000 a year. On more prestigious courses they can make over $150,000 a year. As of the year 2010, there were superintendents making over $400,000 a year, some of whom got that salary directly and others considering benefits such as, but not limited to: free house, free vehicle, free gasoline and holiday bonuses.\n\n\n1. Golf Course Superintendents Association of America. <br>\n2. United States Golf Association. \n3. North Carolina State University Turf Files Glossary. <br>\n4. The North Carolina Agricultural Extension Service, INSECT and other PESTS associated with TURF. <br>\n5. New England Greenkeepr. \n6. Rocky Mountain GCSA. \n"}
{"id": "207886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207886", "title": "Gray's Inn", "text": "Gray's Inn\n\nThe Honourable Society of Gray's Inn, commonly known as Gray's Inn, is one of the four Inns of Court (professional associations for barristers and judges) in London. To be called to the bar and practise as a barrister in England and Wales, a person must belong to one of these Inns. Located at the intersection of High Holborn and Gray's Inn Road in Central London, the Inn is both a professional body and a provider of office accommodation (chambers) for many barristers. It is ruled by a governing council called \"Pension\", made up of the Masters of the Bench (or \"Benchers\"), and led by the Treasurer, who is elected to serve a one-year term. The Inn is known for its gardens, or Walks, which have existed since at least 1597.\n\nGray's Inn does not claim a specific foundation date; there is a tradition that none of the Inns of Court claims to be any older than the others. Law clerks and their apprentices have been established on the present site since at least 1370, with records dating from 1381. During the 15th and 16th centuries, the Inn grew steadily with great prestige, reaching its pinnacle during the reign of Elizabeth I. The Inn was home to many important barristers and politicians, most notably Francis Bacon, and counted Elizabeth herself as a patron. Thanks to the efforts of prominent members such as William Cecil and Gilbert Gerard, Gray's Inn became the largest of the four by number, with over 200 barristers recorded as members. During this period, the Inn became noted for the masques and revels that it threw, and William Shakespeare is believed to have first performed \"The Comedy of Errors\" there.\n\nThe Inn continued to prosper during the reign of James I (1603–1625) and the beginning of that of Charles I, when over 100 students per year were recorded as joining. The outbreak of the First English Civil War in 1642 during the reign of Charles I disrupted the systems of legal education and governance at the Inns of Court, shutting down all calls to the Bar and new admissions, and Gray's Inn never fully recovered. Fortunes continued to decline after the English Restoration, which saw the end of the traditional method of legal education. Although now more prosperous, Gray's Inn is today the smallest of the Inns of Court.\n\nGray's Inn and the other three Inns of Court remain the only bodies legally allowed to call a barrister to the Bar, allowing him or her to practise in England and Wales. Although the Inn was previously a disciplinary and teaching body, these functions are now shared between the four Inns, with the Bar Standards Board (a division of the General Council of the Bar) acting as a disciplinary body and the Inns of Court and Bar Educational Trust providing education. The Inn remains a collegiate self-governing, unincorporated association of its members, providing within its precincts library, dining, residential and office accommodation (chambers), along with a chapel. Members of the Bar from other Inns may use these facilities to some extent.\n\nDuring the 12th and early 13th centuries, the law was taught in the City of London, primarily by the clergy. Then two events happened which ended the Church's role in legal education: firstly, a papal bull that prohibited the clergy from teaching the common law, rather than canon law; and secondly, a decree by Henry III of England on 2 December 1234 that no institutes of legal education could exist in the City of London. The common law began to be practiced and taught by laymen instead of clerics, and these lawyers migrated to the hamlet of Holborn, just outside the City and near to the law courts at Westminster Hall.\n\nThe early records of all four Inns of Court have been lost, and it is not known precisely when each was founded. The records of Gray's Inn itself are lost until 1569, and the precise date of founding cannot therefore be verified. Lincoln's Inn has the earliest surviving records. Gray's Inn dates from at least 1370, and takes its name from Baron Grey of Wilton, as the Inn was originally Wilton's family townhouse (or inn) within the Manor of Portpoole. A lease was taken for various parts of the inn by practising lawyers as both residential and working accommodation, and their apprentices were housed with them. From this the tradition of dining in \"commons\", probably by using the inn's main hall, followed as the most convenient arrangement for the members. Outside records from 1437 show that Gray's Inn was occupied by \"socii\", or members of a society, at that date.\n\nIn 1456 Reginald de Gray, the owner of the Manor itself, sold the land to a group including Thomas Bryan. A few months later, the other members signed deeds of release, granting the property solely to Thomas Bryan. Bryan acted as either a feoffee or an owner representing the governing body of the Inn (there are some records suggesting he may have been a Bencher at this point) but in 1493 he transferred the ownership by charter to a group including Sir Robert Brudenell and Thomas Wodeward, reverting the ownership of the Inn partially back to the Gray family.\n\nIn 1506 the Inn was sold by the Gray family to Hugh Denys and a group of his feoffees including Roger Lupton. This was not a purchase on behalf of the society and after a five-year delay, it was transferred under the will of Denys in 1516 to the Carthusian House of Jesus of Bethlehem (Sheen Priory), which remained the Society's landlord until 1539, when the Second Act of Dissolution led to the Dissolution of the Monasteries and passed ownership of the Inn to the Crown.\n\nDuring the reign of Elizabeth I, Gray's Inn rose in prominence, and that period is considered the \"golden age\" of the Inn, with Elizabeth serving as the Patron Lady. This can be traced to the actions of Nicholas Bacon, William Cecil and Gilbert Gerard, all prominent members of the Inn and confidantes of Elizabeth. Cecil and Bacon in particular took pains to find the most promising young men and get them to join the Inn. In 1574 it was the largest of all the Inns of Court by number, with 120 barristers, and by 1619 it had a membership of more than 200 barristers.\n\nGray's Inn, as well as the other Inns of Court, became noted for the parties and festivals it hosted. Students performed masques and plays in court weddings, in front of Queen Elizabeth herself, and hosted regular festivals and banquets at Candlemas, All Hallows Eve and Easter. At Christmas the students ruled the Inn for the day, appointing a Lord of Misrule called the \"Prince of Purpoole\", and organising a masque entirely on their own, with the Benchers and other senior members away for the holiday.\n\nThe Gray's Inn masque in 1588 with its centrepiece, \"The Misfortunes of Arthur\" by Thomas Hughes, is considered by A.W. Ward to be the most impressive masque thrown at any of the Inns. William Shakespeare performed at the Inn at least once, as his patron, Lord Southampton, was a member. For the Christmas of 1594, his play \"The Comedy of Errors\" was performed by the Lord Chamberlain's Men before a riotous assembly of notables in such disorder that the affair became known as the \"Night of Errors\" and a mock trial was held to arraign the culprit.\n\nCentral to Gray's was the system shared across the Inns of Court of progress towards a call to the Bar, which lasted approximately 12 to 14 years. A student would first study at either Oxford or Cambridge University, or at one of the Inns of Chancery, which were dedicated legal training institutions. If he studied at Oxford or Cambridge he would spend three years working towards a degree, and be admitted to one of the Inns of Court after graduation. If he studied at one of the Inns of Chancery he would do so for one year before seeking admission to the Inn of Court to which his Inn of Chancery was tied—in the case of Gray's Inn, the attached Inns of Chancery were Staple Inn and Barnard's Inn.\n\nThe student was then considered an \"inner barrister\", and would study in private, take part in the moots and listen to the readings and other lectures. After serving from six to nine years as an \"inner barrister,\" the student was called to the Bar, assuming he had fulfilled the requirements of having argued twice at moots in one of the Inns of Chancery, twice in the Hall of his Inn of Court and twice in the Inn Library. The new \"utter barrister\" was then expected to supervise bolts (\"arguments\" over a single point of law between students and barristers) and moots at his Inn of Court, attend lectures at the Inns of Court and Chancery and teach students. After five years as an \"utter\" barrister he was allowed to practice in court—after 10 years he was made an Ancient.\n\nThe period saw the establishment of a regular system of legal education. In the early days of the Inn, the quality of legal education had been poor—readings were given infrequently, and the standards for call to the Bar were weak and varied. During the Elizabethan age readings were given regularly, moots took place daily and barristers who were called to the Bar were expected to play a part in teaching students, resulting in skilled and knowledgeable graduates from the Inn.\n\nMany noted barristers, judges and politicians were members of the Inn during this period, including Gilbert Gerard, Master of the Rolls, Edmund Pelham, Lord Chief Justice of Ireland, and Francis Bacon, who served as Treasurer for eight years, supervising significant changes to the facilities of the Inn and the first proper construction of the gardens and walks for which the Inn is noted.\n\nAt the start of the Caroline era, when Charles I came to the throne, the Inn continued to prosper. Over 100 students were admitted to the Inn each year, and except during the plague of 1636 the legal education of students continued. Masques continued to be held, including one in 1634 organised by all four Inns that cost £21,000—approximately £ in 2018 terms. Before 1685 the Inn counted as members five dukes, three marquises, twenty-nine earls, five viscounts and thirty-nine barons, and during that period \"none can exhibit a more illustrious list of great men\".\n\nMany academics, including William Holdsworth, a man considered to be one of the best legal academics in history, maintain that this period saw a decline in the standard of teaching at all the Inns. From 1640 onwards no readings were held, and barristers such as Sir Edward Coke remarked at the time that the quality of education at the Inns of Court had decreased. Holdsworth put this down to three things—the introduction of printed books, the disinclination of students to attend moots and readings and the disinclination of the Benchers and Readers to enforce attendance.\n\nWith the introduction of printing, written legal texts became more available, reducing the need for students to attend readings and lectures. However, this meant that the students denied themselves the opportunity to query what they had learnt or discuss it in greater detail. Eventually, as students now had a way to learn without attending lectures, they began to excuse themselves from lectures, meetings and moots altogether; in the early 17th century they developed a way of deputising other students to do their moots for them. The Benchers and Readers did little to arrest the decline of the practice of lecturers and readings, first because many probably believed (as the students did) that books were an adequate substitute, and secondly because many were keen to avoid the work of preparing a reading, which cut into their time as practising barristers. These problems were endemic to all the Inns, not just Gray's Inn.\n\nThe outbreak of the First English Civil War led to a complete suspension of legal education, and from November 1642 until July 1644 no Pension meetings were held. Only 43 students were admitted during the four years of the war, and none were called to the Bar. Meetings of Pension resumed after the Battle of Marston Moor but the education system remained dormant. Although Readers were appointed, none read, and no moots were held. In 1646, after the end of the war, there was an attempt to restore the old system of readings and moots, and in 1647 an order was made that students were required to moot at least once a day. This failed to work, with Readers refusing to read, and the old system of legal education completely died out.\n\nThe Caroline period saw a decline in prosperity for Gray's Inn. Although there were many notable members of the Inn, both legal (Sir Dudley Digges, Thomas Bedingfield and Francis Bacon, for example) and non-legal (including William Juxon, the Archbishop of Canterbury), the list could not compare to that of the Elizabethan period. Following the English Restoration, admissions fell to an average of 57 a year.\n\nThe fortunes of Gray's Inn continued to decline after the English Restoration, and by 1719 only 22 students were joining the Inn a year. This fall in numbers was partly because the landed gentry were no longer sending sons who had no intention of becoming barristers to study at the Inn. In 1615, 13 students joined the Inn for every student called to the Bar, but by 1713 the ratio had become 2.3 new members to every 1 call.\n\nOver a 50-year period, the Civil War and high taxation under William III economically crippled many members of the gentry, meaning that they could not afford to allow their sons to study at the Inns. David Lemmings considers it to have been more serious than that, for two reasons; firstly, Inner Temple and Middle Temple had actually shown an increase in membership following the Restoration, and secondly because Gray's Inn had previously had far more \"common\" members than the other Inns. The decrease in the number of gentry at the Inn could therefore not completely explain the large drop in members.\n\nGray's Inn was the venue for an early important match on Thursday, 2 July 1730 between London and Kent. Kent won the game by an unknown margin. The original source reports \"a cricket-match between the Kentish men and the Londoners for £50, and won by the former\", giving the precise location as \"a field near the lower end of Gray's Inn Lane, London\".\n\nIn 1733 the requirements for a call to the Bar were significantly revised in a joint meeting between the Benchers of Inner Temple and Gray's Inn, revisions accepted by Lincoln's Inn and Middle Temple, although they were not represented. It is not recorded what these changes were, but after a further discussion in 1762 the Inns adopted a rule that any student with a Master of Arts or Bachelor of Laws degree from the universities of Oxford or Cambridge could be called to the Bar after three years as a student, and any other student could be called after five years. An attempt was made to increase the quality of legal education at Gray's Inn; in 1753 a barrister, Danby Pickering, was employed to lecture there, although this agreement ended in 1761 when he was called to the Bar.\n\nThe 18th century was not a particularly prosperous time for the Inn or its members, and few notable barristers were members during this period. Some noted members include Sir Thomas Clarke, the Master of the Rolls, Sir James Eyre, Chief Justice of the Common Pleas and Samuel Romilly, a noted law reformer. In 1780 the Inn was involved in the case of \"R v the Benchers of Gray's Inn\", a test of the role of the Inns of Court as the sole authority to call students to the Bar. The case was brought to the Court of King's Bench by William Hart, a student at the Inn, who asked the court (under Lord Mansfield) to order the Inn to call him to the Bar. Mansfield ruled that the Inns of Court were indeed the only organisations able to call students to the Bar, and refused to order the Inns to call Hart.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the Inns began to stagnate; little had been changed since the 17th century in terms of legal education or practice, except that students were no longer bound to take the Anglican sacrament before their call to the Bar. In 1852 the Council of Legal Education was established by the Inns, and in 1872 a formal examination for the call to the Bar was introduced. Gray's Inn itself suffered more than most; as in the 18th century, the fortunes of its members declined, and many barristers who had been called to the Bar at the Inn transferred to others.\n\nGray's Inn was the smallest of the Inns during the early 20th century, and was noted for its connection to the Northern Circuit. During the Second World War, the Inn was badly damaged during the Blitz in 1941, with the Hall, the Chapel, the Library and many other buildings hit and almost destroyed. The rebuilding of much of the Inn took until 1960 by the architect Sir Edward Maufe. In 2008 Gray's Inn became the first Inn to appoint \"fellows\"—elected businesspeople, legal academics and others—with the intent of giving them a wider perspective and education than the other Inns would offer.\n\nGray's Inn's internal records date from 1569, at which point there were four types of member; those who had not yet been called to the Bar, Utter Barristers, Ancients and Readers. Utter Barristers were those who had been called to the Bar but were still studying, Ancients were those who were called to the Bar and were allowed to practise and Readers were those who had been called to the Bar, were allowed to practise and now played a part in educating law students at the Inns of Chancery and at Gray's Inn itself. At the time Gray's Inn was the odd one out amongst the Inns; the others did not recognise Ancients as a degree of barrister and had Benchers roughly corresponding to the Readers used at Gray's Inn (although the positions were not identical).\n\nThe Inn is run by Pension, its ultimate governing body. The name is peculiar to Gray's Inn—at Lincoln's Inn the governing body is called the Council, and at the Inner and Middle Temples it is called the Parliament. The name was used for the governing bodies of three of the Inns of Chancery—Barnard's Inn, Clement's Inn and New Inn. In Gray's Inn the Readers, when they existed, were required to attend Pension meetings, and other barristers were at one point welcome to, although only the Readers would be allowed to speak. Pension at Gray's Inn is made up of the Masters of the Bench, and the Inn as a whole is headed by the Treasurer, a senior Bencher. The Treasurer has always been elected, and since 1744 the office has rotated between individuals, with a term of one year.\n\nA Reader was a person literally elected to read—he would be elected to the Pension (council) of Gray's Inn, and would take his place by giving a \"reading\", or lecture, on a particular legal topic. Two readers would be elected annually by Pension to serve a one-year term. Initially (before the rise of the Benchers) the Readers were the governing body of Gray's Inn, and formed Pension. The earliest certain records of Readers are from the 16th century—although the Inn's records only start at 1569 William Dugdale (himself a member) published a list in his \"Origines Juridiciales\" dating from 1514. S.E. Thorne published a list dating from 1430, but this is entirely conjectural and not based on any official records, only reports of \"readings\" that took place at Gray's Inn. By 1569 there had certainly been Readers for more than a century.\n\nThe English Civil War marked the end of legal education at the Inns, and the class of Readers went into decline. The last Readers were appointed in 1677, and the position of the Readers as heads of the Inn and members of Pension was taken by the Benchers.\n\nA Bencher, Benchsitter or (formally) Master of the Bench, is a member of Pension, the governing body of the Honourable Society of Gray's Inn. The term originally referred to one who sat on the benches in the main hall of the Inn which were used for dining and during moots, and the term originally had no significance. The position of Bencher developed during the 16th century when the Readers, for unknown reasons, decided that some barristers who were not Readers should be afforded the same rights and privileges as those who were, although without a voice in Pension. This was a rare practice and occurred a total of seven times within the 16th century, the first being Robert Flynt in 1549. The next was Nicholas Bacon in 1550, then Edward Stanhope in 1580, who was afforded the privilege because, although a skilled attorney, an illness meant he could never fulfil the duties of a Reader.\n\nThe practice became more common during the 17th century—11 people were made Benchers between 1600 and 1630—and in 1614 one of the Benchers appointed was explicitly allowed to be a member of Pension. This became more common, creating a two-rank system in which both Readers and Benchers were members of Pension. However far more Readers were appointed than Benchers—50 between 1600 and 1630—and it appeared that Readers would remain the higher rank despite this change.\n\nThe English Civil War marked the end of legal education at the Inns, although the government attempted to persuade Readers to continue by threatening them with fines. The class of Readers went into decline and Benchers were called as members of Pension instead. In 1679 there was the first mass-call of Benchers (22 on one occasion, and 15 on another), with the Benchers paying a fine of 100 marks because they refused to read, and modern Benchers pay a \"fine\" in a continuation of this tradition.\n\nNoted Benchers of Gray's Inn include Lord Birkenhead and Francis Bacon. Honorary Benchers can also be appointed, although they have no role in Pension, such as Lord Denning, who was appointed in 1979, and Winston Churchill. Today there are over 300 Benchers in Gray's Inn, mostly senior barristers and members of the judiciary.\n\nGray's Inn does not possess a coat of arms as such, but instead uses a badge, often displayed on a shield, blazoned either \"Azure an Indian Griffin proper segreant\" or, more currently, \"Sable a griffin segreant or\", i.e., a gold griffin on a black background. The Inn originally used a form of the coat of arms of the de Grey family, but this was changed at some time around 1600 to the griffin. There is no direct record of why this was done, but it seems likely that the new device was adapted from the arms of the Treasurer Richard Aungier (d. 1597), for two probable reasons: firstly, because he was a particularly important and prestigious member of the Inn, and secondly, because the griffin would have looked more impressive on occasions such as masques and revels than the plain geometric arms of the de Greys.\n\nThe motto around the badge, the date of adoption of which is unknown, is \"Integra Lex Aequi Custos Rectique Magistra Non Habet Affectus Sed Causas Gubernat\", or \"Impartial justice, guardian of equity, mistress of the law, without fear or favour rules men's causes aright\".\n\nThe Inn is located at the intersection of High Holborn and Gray's Inn Road. It started as a single manor house with a hall and chapel, although an additional wing had been added by the date of the \"Woodcut\" map of London, drawn probably in the early 1560s. Expansion continued over the following decades, and by 1586 the Pension had added another two wings around the central court. Around these were several sets of chambers erected by members of the Inn under a leasehold agreement whereby ownership of the buildings would revert to the Inn at the end of the lease.\n\nAs the Inn grew it became necessary (for safety purposes) to wall off the land owned by the Inn, which had previously been open to everyone. In 1591 the \"back field\" was walled off, but little more was done until 1608, when under the supervision of Francis Bacon, the Treasurer, more construction work was undertaken, particularly in walling off and improving the gardens and walks. In 1629 it was ordered that an architect supervise any construction and ensure that the new buildings were architecturally similar to the old ones, and the strict enforcement of this rule during the 18th century is given as a reason for the uniformity of the buildings at Gray's Inn.\n\nDuring the late 17th century many buildings were demolished, either because of poor repair or to standardise and modernise the buildings at the Inn. Many more were built over the open land surrounding the Inn, although this was controversial at the time; in November 1672 the Privy Council and Charles II himself were petitioned to order that nothing should be built on the open land, and a similar request was sent to the Lord Chancellor in May 1673. From 1672 to 1674 additional buildings were constructed in the Red Lyon Fields by Nicholas Barebone, and members of the Inn attempted to sue him to prevent this. After the lawsuits failed members of the Inn were seen to fight with Barebones' workmen, \"wherein several were shrewdly hurt\".\n\nIn February 1679 a fire broke out on the west side of Coney Court, necessitating the rebuilding of the entire row. Another fire broke out in January 1684 in Coney Court, destroying several buildings including the Library. A third fire in 1687 destroyed a large part of Holborn Court, and when the buildings were rebuilt after these fires they were constructed of brick to be more resistant to fire than the wood and plaster previously used in construction. As a result, the domestic Tudor style architecture which had dominated much of the Inn was replaced with more modern styles. Records show that prior to the rebuilding in 1687, the Inn had been \"so incommodious\" that the \"ancients\" were forced to work two to a chamber. More of the Inn was rebuilt during that period, and between 1669 and 1774 all of the Inn apart from parts of the Hall and Chapel had been rebuilt.\n\nMore buildings were constructed during the 18th and 19th centuries. In 1941 the Inn suffered under The Blitz, which damaged or destroyed much of the Inn, necessitating the repair of many buildings and the construction of more. Today many buildings are let as professional offices for barristers and solicitors with between and of office space available. There are also approximately 60 residential apartments, rented out to barristers who are members of the Inn. The Inn also contains the Inns of Court School of Law, a joint educational venture between all four Inns of Court where the vocational training for barristers and solicitors is undertaken. The current Inn layout consists of two squares—South Square and Gray's Inn Square—with the remaining buildings arranged around the Walks.\n\nThe Hall was part of the original Manor of Portpoole, although it was significantly rebuilt during the reign of Mary I, and again during the reign of Elizabeth, with the rebuilding being finished on 10 November 1559. The rebuilt Hall measured in length, in width and in height, and remains about the same size today. It has a hammerbeam roof and a raised dais at one end with a grand table on it, where the Benchers and other notables would originally have sat.\n\nThe hall also contains a large carved screen at one end covering the entrance to the Vestibule. Legend says that the screen was given to the Inn by Elizabeth I while she was the Inn's patron, and is carved out of the wood of a Spanish galleon captured from the Spanish Armada. The Hall was lit with the aid of massive windows filled with the Coats of Arms of those members who became Treasurers. The Benchers' table is also said to have been a gift from Elizabeth, and as a result the only public toast in the Inn until the late 19th century was \"to the glorious, pious and immortal memory of Queen Elizabeth\".\n\nThe walls of the Hall are decorated with paintings of noted patrons or members of the Inn, including Nicholas Bacon and Elizabeth I. During the Second World War the Hall was one of those buildings badly damaged during the Blitz. The Treasurers' Arms and paintings had been moved to a place of safety and were not damaged; during the rebuilding after the War they were put back in the Hall, where they remain. The rebuilt hall was designed by Edward Maufe, and was formally opened in 1951 by the Duke of Gloucester.\n\nThe Chapel existed in the original manor house used by the Inn, and dates from 1315. In 1625 it was enlarged under the supervision of Eubule Thelwall, but by 1698 it was \"very ruinous\", and had to be rebuilt. Little is known of the changes, except that the barrister's chambers above the Chapel were removed. The building was again rebuilt in 1893, and remained that way until its destruction during The Blitz in 1941. The Chapel was finally rebuilt in 1960, and the original stained glass windows (which had been removed and taken to a safe location) were restored. The rebuilt Chapel contains \"simple furnishings\" made of Canadian maple donated by the Canadian Bar Association.\n\nThe Inn has had a Chaplain since at least 1400, where a court case is recorded as being brought by the \"Chaplain of Greyes Inn\". During the 16th century the Inn began hiring full-time preachers to staff the Chapel—the first, John Cherke, was appointed in 1576. A radical Puritan in a time of religious conflict, Cherke held his post for only a short time before being replaced by a Thomas Crooke in 1580. After Crooke's death in 1598 Roger Fenton served as preacher, until his replacement by Richard Sibbes, later Master of Catherine Hall, Cambridge, in 1616. Gray's Inn still employs a Preacher; Michael Doe, former Bishop of Swindon and more recently General Secretary of the United Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, was appointed in 2011.\n\nThe Walks are the gardens within Gray's Inn, and have existed since at least 1597, when records show that Francis Bacon was to be paid £7 for \"planting of trees in the walkes\". Prior to this the area (known as Green Court) was used as a place to dump waste and rubble, since at the time the Inn was open to any Londoner. In 1587 four Benchers were ordered by the Pension to \"consider what charge a brick wall in the fields will draw unto And where the said wall shalbe fittest to be builded\", and work on such a wall was completed in 1598, which helped keep out the citizens of London.\n\nIn 1599 additional trees were planted in the Walks, and stairs up to the Walks were also added. When Francis Bacon became treasurer in 1608 more improvements were made, since he no longer had to seek the approval of the Pension to make changes. In September 1608 a gate was installed on the southern wall, and various gardeners were employed to maintain the Walks. The gardens became commonly used as a place of relaxation, and James Howell wrote in 1621 that \"I hold [Gray's Inn Walks] to be the pleasantest place about London, and that there you have the choicest society\".\n\nThe Walks were well-maintained during the reign of William III, although the Inn's lack of prosperity made more improvements impossible. In 1711 the gardener was ordered not to admit \"any women or children into the Walkes\", and in 1718 was given permission to physically remove those he found. At the end of the 18th century Charles Lamb said that the Walks were \"the best gardens of any of the Inns of Court, their aspect being altogether reverend and law-abiding\". In 1720 the old gate was replaced by \"a pair of handsome iron gates with peers and other proper imbellishments\". The 19th and 20th centuries saw few major changes, apart from the introduction of plane trees into the Walks.\n\nThe Walks are listed Grade II* on the Register of Historic Parks and Gardens.\n\nThe Library of Gray's Inn has existed since at least 1555, when the first mention of it was made in the will of Robert Chaloner, who left some money to buy law books for the Library. The Library was neither a big collection nor a dedicated one; in 1568 it was being housed in a single room in the chambers of Nicholas Bacon, a room that was also used for mooting and to store the deed chest. The collection grew larger over the years as individual Benchers such as Sir John Finch and Sir John Bankes left books or money to buy books in their wills, and the first Librarian was appointed in 1646 after members of the Inn had been found stealing books.\n\nIn 1669 books were bought by the Inn as an organisation for the first time, and a proper catalogue was drawn up to prevent theft. In 1684 a fire that broke out in Coney Court, where the Library was situated, and destroyed much of the collection. While some books were saved, most of the records prior to 1684 were lost. A \"handsome room\" was then built to house the Library.\n\nThe Library became more important during the 18th century; prior to that it had been a small, little-used collection of books. In 1725 it was proposed by the Pension that \"a publick Library be sett up and kept open for ye use of ye society\", and that more books be purchased. The first order of new books was on 27 June 1729 and consisted of \"a collection of Lord Bacon's works\". In 1750 the Under-Steward of the Inn made a new catalogue of the books, and in 1789 the Library was moved to a new room between the Hall and the Chapel. In 1840 another two rooms were erected in which to store books, and in 1883 a new Library was constructed with space to store approximately 11,000 books. This was rapidly found to be inadequate, and in 1929 a new Library, known as the Holker Library after the benefactor, Sir John Holker, was opened. The library, although impressive looking, was not particularly useful; Francis Cowper wrote that: Though impressive to look at, the new building was something less than a success as a library. The air of spaciousness was produced at the expense of shelf room, and though in the octagon [at the north end] the decorative effect of row upon row of books soaring upwards towards the cornice was considerable, the loftiest were totally inaccessible save to those who could scale the longest and dizziest ladders. Further, the appointments were of such surpassing mag-nificence that no ink-pots were allowed in the room for fear of accidents.\n\nThe building did not last very long—damage to the Inn during the Blitz completely destroyed the Library and a large part of its collection, although the rare manuscripts, which had been moved elsewhere, survived. After the destruction of much of the Inn's collection, George VI donated replacements for many lost texts. A prefabricated building in the Walks was used to hold the surviving books while a new Library was constructed, and the new building (designed by Sir Edward Maufe) was opened in 1958. It is similar in size to the old Holker Library, but is more workmanlike and designed to allow for easy access to the books.\n\nHaving existed for over 600 years, Gray's Inn has a long list of notable members and honorary members. Even as the smallest of the Inns of Court it has had members who have been particularly noted lawyers and judges, such as Francis Bacon, The 1st Earl of Birkenhead, Baron Slynn, Lord Bingham of Cornhill, Lord Hoffmann and others. Outside the Bar and judiciary of England and Wales, members have included the clergy (including five Archbishops of Canterbury), industrialists like John Wynne, astronomers such as John Lee, media figures, like Huw Thomas, and members of the Bar and judiciary of other nations, such as Sir Ti-liang Yang (former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Hong Kong), B. R. Ambedkar (principal architect of the Constitution of India) and also former presidents of Cyprus Spyros Kyprianou, Tassos Papadopoulos, and Glafcos Clerides.\n\n"}
{"id": "27581785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27581785", "title": "Guinea at the Paralympics", "text": "Guinea at the Paralympics\n\nGuinea made its Paralympic Games début at the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens, sending a single representative (Ahmed Barry) to compete in athletics. He took part in two events, and did not win a medal. Barry was, again, Guinea's sole representative at the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing. Entering only one race on that occasion, he was a non-starter. He remains the only person to have represented Guinea at the Paralympic Games.\n\nGuinea has never taken part in the Winter Paralympics.\n\n"}
{"id": "9244846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9244846", "title": "How to Play Golf", "text": "How to Play Golf\n\nHow to Play Golf is a 1944 short animated Walt Disney Productions film directed by Jack Kinney. Eight minutes long, it was distributed by RKO, and was a part of a series where Goofy learned to play various sports.\n\nUpon release, \"The Film Daily\" called it \"highly hilarious\", and gave the following review:\n\"This, another of Walt Disney's Technicolor cartoons featuring the Goof, is a howl. While the narrator explains how properly to play golf, the Goof attempts to demonstrate. Naturally he does everything wrong, with superb results from a comedy point of view. The technique and animation are noteworthy indeed. Mark this down as a topflight booking of its kind.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "374824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374824", "title": "Kart circuit", "text": "Kart circuit\n\nA kart circuit is a race track designed for kart racing or other forms of short length motor racing, such as small-scale motorcycle racing, pocketbike racing, or radio-controlled model racing. There are several types of kart circuit, depending on the type of use desired.\n\nUnlike regular race tracks intended for auto racing or other forms of motorsports, kart circuits are usually much shorter in length, and often consist of numerous turns.\n\nA short circuit is defined as being an outdoor circuit of less than 1,500 meters in length.\n\nThe average length for a serious racing track for karts is around 1,100 - 1,200 meters, 7 to 9 meters in width. Normally custom-built for karting, they resemble road courses, with left and right turns. They generally allow sprint racing for both gearbox and non-gearbox karts.\n\nTemporary circuits can be set in city streets or large parking lots for special events. This is the case for the Junior Monaco Kart Cup, a prestigious event for young drivers taking place each year in the city of Monaco, and the SKUSA SuperNationals, taking place in Las Vegas at the Rio All Suite Hotel and Casino.\n\nA long circuit is defined as being an outdoor circuit of more than 1,500 m in length. Typically they are shared for other motorsport and only have gearbox kart races.\n\nThis type of event can see karts (Superkart) reach speeds in excess of 160 mph (250 km/h).\n\nNormally for casual racers, the indoor circuits can be in any closed space (often old factories), sometimes with a short outdoor section to add interest. Normally they have their own fleet of Go-karts or micro karts, chosen more for economy than out-and-out speed.\n\nIn Europe, indoor karting is where most people will sample their first time in a kart. Indoor karting exploded across the UK in the 1990s and had a similar impact in European countries such as France and Belgium. It has made a lesser impact in the United States. Indoor karting still offers a competitive experience for all levels of racers.\n\nThe world longest indoor circuit, the Highway Kart Racing GmbH, 1,600 meters, is located in Germany, Dortmund.\n\nIn this category fall the dirt-tracks, oval tracks and ice rinks.\n\nKarting is international and most countries have kart specific racing circuits. Notable examples include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47223559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47223559", "title": "Kissing Cup", "text": "Kissing Cup\n\nKissing Cup is a 1913 British silent sports film directed by Jack Hulcup and starring Harry Gilbey, Chrissie White and Cecil Mannering. The film's title is an allusion to the poem \"Kissing Cup's Race\" by Campbell Rae Brown. A jockey manages to escape a gang of kidnappers and makes it to Sandown in time to win his race.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1919763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919763", "title": "Knoxville Civic Coliseum", "text": "Knoxville Civic Coliseum\n\nGeneral James White Memorial Civic Auditorium and Coliseum (usually shortened to Knoxville Civic Coliseum) is a multi-purpose events facility in Knoxville, Tennessee, owned by the Knoxville city government and managed by SMG. Its components are an auditorium with a maximum seating capacity of 2,500, a multi-purpose arena with a maximum seating capacity of 6,500, an exhibition hall and a reception hall. It was built in 1961.\n\nThe arena is home to the Knoxville Ice Bears, of the SPHL and the University of Tennessee Ice Vols, of the ACHA. In the past, the arena hosted the Knoxville Speed, of the UHL, the Knoxville Cherokees, of the ECHL and the Knoxville Knights, of the EHL. It was also the home of the Tennessee Thundercats professional indoor football franchise, for two years.\n\nIt was the main home arena for Smoky Mountain Wrestling, a regional wrestling promotion, run by pro wrestling Hall of Famer Jim Cornette, from 1992 to 1995.\n\nPerformances hosted in the facility have included circuses, plays and musicals, symphony orchestra concerts, popular music concerts, and comedians. On March 18, 1982, the venue was notable to be the site of Randy Rhoads final show, before his death in a plane crash the very next day.\n\nChicago broke the record (at that time) for the fastest sellout to a concert at the Coliseum for their August 26, 1971, performance.\n"}
{"id": "21631673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21631673", "title": "La Salle Coliseum", "text": "La Salle Coliseum\n\nThe La Salle Coliseum is an indoor sporting arena located in Bacolod, Philippines.\n\nThe Coliseum has played host to a number of basketball games including those of Philippine Basketball Association out of town games and the now-defunct Metropolitan Basketball Association, where it served as the home court of the Negros Slashers.\n\nIt is the largest indoor facility in Negros Island Region. It is located inside the campus of the University of St. La Salle and hosts sporting and entertainment events in the province.\n\nNegros Occidental Private Schools Sports Cultural Educational Association (NOPSSCEA) sports opening ceremony are usually held in the coliseum\nand was the official venue during the 2005 Southeast Asian Games particularly the Boxing event where 11 countries participated the competition. The coliseum also hosted two major karatedo championships, the 1996 Philippine Karatedo Federation National Championship headed by Pocholo Veguillas and Cristina Ramos-Jalasco, former Philippine Olympic Committee chairman and daughter of former president Fidel V. Ramos and the 2007 20th PKF National Open. Both tournaments were held at the USLS Coliseum. The tournaments were participated by hundreds of karatekas all over the country.\n"}
{"id": "11284716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11284716", "title": "Lesotho Davis Cup team", "text": "Lesotho Davis Cup team\n\nThe Lesotho Davis Cup team represents Lesotho in Davis Cup tennis competition and are governed by the Lesotho Lawn Tennis Association. They have not competed since 2001.\n\nLesotho competed in its first Davis Cup in 2000. Their best result was fourth in their Group IV pool in 2000 and 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "58095948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58095948", "title": "List of WBC Muaythai international challenge winners", "text": "List of WBC Muaythai international challenge winners\n\nThis is a list of WBC Muaythai international challenge winners, showing every \"international challenge\" match winner certificated by the World Boxing Council Muaythai (WBC Muaythai). The WBC, which is one of the four major governing bodies in professional boxing, started certifying their own Muay Thai world champions in 19 different weight classes in 2005.\n\nThe international challenge matches are for the competitors who are not qualified for the official championships, therefore it is not championship. In addition, it is completely different from \"international championships\". The winners of international challenge matches are given commemorative belts.\n\n"}
{"id": "28089149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28089149", "title": "Maloney (gymnastics)", "text": "Maloney (gymnastics)\n\nThe Maloney is a gymnastics skill performed on the uneven bars by female gymnasts. It is a transition skill from the low bar to the high bar. When performing, the gymnast places her toes on the low bar and performs a sole circle before releasing from the bar into flight and catching the high bar. The skill is named after the first gymnast to perform it at a World Championships or Olympic Games, Kristen Maloney.\n"}
{"id": "18947710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18947710", "title": "Malta at the Commonwealth Games", "text": "Malta at the Commonwealth Games\n\nMalta have competed at twelve Commonwealth Games, making their debut in 1958. They did not attend in 1966, 1974 or 1978, but have attended every Games since 1982. Malta have won six medals at the Games, four of these in shooting.\n\n"}
{"id": "57907096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57907096", "title": "Oak Hill Cricket Club Ground", "text": "Oak Hill Cricket Club Ground\n\nOak Hill Cricket Club Ground is a cricket ground in County Wicklow, Leinster, Ireland.\n\nThe ground was constructed in 2008 by businessman Peter Savill on his stud farm at Dunganstown. The ground was officially opened on 22 June 2008, with an Ireland XI playing a Lashings XI. The pavilion at the ground is an exact replica of the one found at Ampleforth College in England, where Savill was educated. First-class cricket was first played at the ground in 2012, when Ireland played South Africa A. The ground was scheduled to host two Twenty20 matches as part of the tour, however both matches were cancelled due to rain. The future of the ground was called into question in 2013, when residents of a neighbouring property took legal action in the High Court after complaining about excess noise from the venue. The ground hosted a first-class match between Leinster Lightning and North West Warriors in 2017 Inter-Provincial Championship, which was the inaugural domestic first-class match to be played in Leinster.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3652623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3652623", "title": "Parallettes", "text": "Parallettes\n\nParallettes are small gymnastics devices, employed in pairs, used primarily to simulate the parallel bars that can be found in professional gymnasiums. Parallettes are similar to pushup bars, or dip bars, but they are generally longer and lower to the ground.\n\nAside from their appeal as equipment for gymnasts, parallettes are also appropriate for other athletes who wish to develop strength by means of bodyweight exercises.\n\nTypical exercises done on parallettes include L-sits, V-sits, handstand presses and handstand pushups. Body weight is always supported on the hands, but some parallette exercises are excellent core and leg strengtheners as well. \n\nAlthough parallettes can be purchased from a number of commercial sources, they are simple to fabricate from commonly available materials such as PVC pipe. Consequently, both professional and home gyms will often utilize low-cost, \"homemade\" parallettes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3551866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3551866", "title": "Ratcliffe Stadium", "text": "Ratcliffe Stadium\n\nRatcliffe Stadium is a collegiate athletic venue in the western United States, located on the campus of Fresno City College in Fresno, California.\n\nOpened in 1926, it was renamed in 1941 after their first football coach, Emory Ratcliffe. The stadium hosted the Raisin Bowl and was home to the Fresno State Bulldogs football team through 1979; they moved to their on-campus Bulldog Stadium in 1980. \n\nRatcliffe also hosted the West Coast Relays, a major track and field competition. Today, local high school football games and various track and field events are still held there. The stadium has a seating capacity of 13,000, and it is located at 1101 E. University Avenue, along Blackstone Avenue.\n\nThe football field has a conventional north-south alignment, at an elevation of above sea level.\n\nOn June 2, 1964, Fresno Mayor Wallace D. Henderson marched with Martin Luther King Jr. and 1,000 persons from Fresno High School march Ratcliffe Stadium, where about 3,000 persons attended a rally that he spoke at regarding fair housing, desegregation and the Rumford Housing Act and in protest of California Proposition 14 (1964). It was organized as the Witness of Faith for Freedom Rally.\n\n"}
{"id": "5180234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5180234", "title": "Real Cartagena", "text": "Real Cartagena\n\nReal Cartagena is a professional Colombian football team based in Cartagena, that currently plays in the Categoría Primera B. They play their home games at the Jaime Morón León stadium.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47344670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47344670", "title": "Robleh Ali Adou", "text": "Robleh Ali Adou\n\nRobleh Ali Adou (born 17 June 1964) is an international windsurfer who competes for Djibouti.\n\nAdou has competed in three Olympic Games, firstly he was at the 1988 Summer Olympics where he competed in the Division II Class, he finished in 40th place overall, four years later he entered the Lechner A-390 Class where this time he finished in 39th place. his final appearance at the Olympics was in the 1996 Summer Olympics in the Mistral One Class, there he finished in 46th place.\n"}
{"id": "7433086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7433086", "title": "Roland E. Powell Convention Center", "text": "Roland E. Powell Convention Center\n\nThe Roland E. Powell Convention Center, also known as the Ocean City Convention Center, is a multi-purpose convention center in Ocean City, Maryland, USA. It contains of floor space. It can also be converted into a 5,000 seat indoor arena that can host sporting events, like wrestling, as well as concerts. It is named after former mayor of Ocean City, Roland E. Powell.\nFood and beverage, catering, and special event services are provided by Centerplate.\n\n"}
{"id": "40845922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40845922", "title": "Shoeless Joe Jackson Museum", "text": "Shoeless Joe Jackson Museum\n\nThe \"Shoeless\" Joe Jackson Museum and Library was first opened to the public on June 21, 2008. Located across from Fluor Field in Greenville, South Carolina, the five room brick house in which Shoeless Joe Jackson lived and died in contains a few of his personal belongings and over 2,000 books related to baseball.\n\nIn 2015, the Shoeless Joe Jackson Museum formally petitioned Commissioner of Baseball Rob Manfred for Jackson's reinstatement to baseball, on grounds that Jackson had \"more than served his sentence\" in the 95 years since his banishment by Kenesaw Landis. Manfred denied the request after an official review. \"The results of this work demonstrate to me that it is not possible now, over 95 years since those events took place and were considered by Commissioner Landis, to be certain enough of the truth to overrule Commissioner Landis' determinations,\" he wrote.\n\nThe museum allows members of the public to visit on Saturdays and conducts private tours during the week. While in Greenville, many visitors to the museum will also visit \"Shoeless\" Joe Jackson's grave. His grave is located near Bob Jones University. When visiting the grave, members of the public will leave baseball related equipment such as baseballs, gloves, and cleats.\n"}
{"id": "714871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714871", "title": "Shooting guard", "text": "Shooting guard\n\nThe shooting guard (SG), also known as the two or off guard, is one of the five traditional positions in a regulation basketball game. A shooting guard's main objective is to score points for his team and steal the ball on defense. Some teams ask their shooting guards to bring up the ball as well; these players are known colloquially as combo guards. A player who can switch between playing shooting guard and small forward is known as a swingman. In the NBA, shooting guards usually range from 6' 3\" (1.91 m) to 6' 8\" (2.01 m) and 5' 9\" (1.75 m) to 6' 0\" (1.83 m) in the WNBA.\n\n\"The Basketball Handbook\" by Lee Rose describes a shooting guard as someone whose primary role is to score points. As the name suggests, most shooting guards are good long-range shooters, typically averaging 35–40 percent from three-point range. Many shooting guards are also strong and athletic, and have the ability to get inside the paint and drive to the basket. \n\nTypically, shooting guards are taller than point guards. Height at the position varies; many bigger shooting guards also play small forward. Shooting guards should be good ball handlers and be able to pass reasonably well, though passing is not their main priority. Since good shooting guards may attract double-teams, they are frequently the team's back-up ball handlers to the point guard and typically get a fair number of assists.\n\nShooting guards must be able to score in various ways, especially late in a close game when defenses are tighter. They need to have a good free throw percentage too, to be reliable in close games and to discourage opposing players from fouling. Because of the high level of offensive skills shooting guards need, they are often a team's primary scoring option, and sometimes the offense is built around them.\n\nIn the NBA, there are some shooting guards referred to as \"3 and D\" players. The term 3 and D implies that the player is a good 3 point shooter who can also play solid (sometimes elite) defense. The 3 and D player has become very important as the game sways to be perimeter oriented.\n\nGood shooting guards can often play point guard to a certain extent. It is usually accepted that point guards should have the ball in their hands at most times in the game, but sometimes the shooting guard has a significant enough influence on the team where he or she handles the ball extremely often, to the point where the point guard may be reduced to a backup ball handler or .\n\n"}
{"id": "19134719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19134719", "title": "Sportfive", "text": "Sportfive\n\nSportfive S.A.S. was an international sports rights marketing agency with a global network of locations and affiliated companies. Sportfive S.A. was based in Boulogne-Billancourt (previously Issy-les-Moulineaux), while its German subsidiary was based in Hamburg.\n\nSportfive was formed in 2001 when the European Commission unconditionally approved the merger between the sports rights activities of Jean-Claude Darmon, Sport+, a subsidiary of Canal+ Group, and RTL Group's sports rights division, UFA Sports.\n\nIn 2004 the private equity firm Advent International finalised its acquisition of Sportfive S.A., and in November 2006 sold it to the French media giant Lagardère for an estimated €865 million. Since that time, Sportfive has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Lagardère. In 2015 it was integrated into Lagardère Sports and Entertainment, as Lagardère Sports S.A.S. Sportfive Group business in Germany, Sportfive GmbH, became Lagardère Sports Germany GmbH, and UK business became Lagardère Sports UK.\n\nSportfive is the world's no.1 football agency and one of the largest sports agencies worldwide.\nIn recent years, Sportfive has optimised and fine-tuned its comprehensive marketing concept for football clubs. The concept includes recruiting a suitable shirt sponsor, marketing advertising panels in the stadium, organising of hospitality events, marketing TV and Internet rights, and developing marketing concepts and realising them in a professional manner with a team based at the club. Currently Sportfive International Sàrl is the official sales agent of Match Hospitality in the territory of Continental Europe for the sale of the Official Hospitality Programme for the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa.\n\nIn February 2009, the International Olympic Committee appointed Sportfive as its official media rights agent for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, and the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil across all distribution platforms, in 40 European markets. In addition to its leading role in the field of football marketing, Sportfive is also involved in many other international professional sports arenas such as handball, basketball, triathlon, tennis and motor sports.\n\nSportfive has cooperations in place with more than 30 football associations and over 250 clubs, as well as ten leagues. In Germany, Sportfive already represents ten Bundesliga clubs (among others: Hamburger SV, Hertha BSC Berlin, Karlsruher SC and Borussia Dortmund). Leading clubs from other European football leagues have also chosen to sign with Sportfive, including Olympique Lyon, Paris St. Germain, AJ Auxerre and AS Monaco from the French Ligue 1, Atalanta Bergamo, U.C. Sampdoria and Juventus F.C. from Italy’s Serie A and PAOK FC Superleague Greece.\n\nIn August 2012, Sportfive has organized the friendly between Dinamo Bucharest and FC Barcelona at the Arena Națională, Bucharest, Romania.\n\nIn Germany, the company was instrumental in brokering the naming rights for the HSH Nordbank Arena in Hamburg, the Commerzbank Arena in Frankfurt, the Signa Iduna Park in Dortmund and others.\n\nSportfive also offers a wide range of consulting services and regularly publishes comprehensive market and media studies, feasibility studies and up-to-date market research reports.\n\nSportfive Italy S.r.l. is part of the international Sportfive Group and cooperates with the Serie A teams Juventus F.C., Atalanta B.C. and U.C. Sampdoria. For these clubs, Sportfive Italy is the concessionaire of certain marketing and commercial rights. As part of a long-term strategic partnership with Juventus, Sportfive Italy exclusively sells the naming right and markets other promotional and sponsorship rights for the new stadium in Turin. Since 2001, the agency has been implementing its comprehensive marketing model for Atalanta B.C. This comprehensive marketing model developed by Sportfive integrates different sponsorship and hospitality tools into an interlinked marketing network and has been successfully applied to numerous clubs across Europe. For U.C. Sampdoria, Sportfive Italy manages specific aspects of the commercial and marketing rights. The newly established Italian unit for Stadium Development draws on the Sportfive Group’s expertise in this field and manages new stadium construction and modernisation projects in all phases.\n\n"}
{"id": "1239308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1239308", "title": "Stanford Stadium", "text": "Stanford Stadium\n\nStanford Stadium is an outdoor athletic stadium in Stanford, California, on the campus of Stanford University. It is the home of the Stanford Cardinal college football team as well as the site of the university's commencement exercises. It opened in 1921 as a football and track stadium, an earthen horseshoe with wooden bleacher seating and flooring upon a steel frame. Its original seating capacity was 60,000, which grew to 89,000 by 1927 as a nearly enclosed bowl. Immediately following the 2005 season, the stadium was demolished and rebuilt as a dual-deck concrete structure, without a track. Today, it seats 50,424.\n\nStanford Stadium was built in five months and opened its gates on November 19, 1921, replacing Stanford Field. The first game was against rival California, who defeated Stanford 42–7 in the Big Game. Seating capacity was originally 60,000, with a 66-row, U-Shaped structure second only to the Yale Bowl in size at the time.\n\nIn 1925, 10,200 seats were added to the stadium, nearly enclosing the horseshoe while still keeping the overall height of the facility intact. In 1927 14 additional rows of seating were added, increasing the stadium to its maximum capacity of 85,500, with 80 rows of seating. In 1932, the stadium hosted the USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships. In 1935, Stanford Stadium set a record for single-game attendance, with 94,000 spectators filling it for a 13–0 victory over California.\n\nIn January 1985, Super Bowl XIX was held in Stanford Stadium, with the Bay Area's own San Francisco 49ers defeating the Miami Dolphins, 38–16. Stanford Stadium is one of two venues (the Rose Bowl being the other) to host a Super Bowl without previously serving as the home stadium of a National Football League (NFL) or American Football League (AFL) team. As of now, Super Bowl XIX is the only Super Bowl where the host region saw its team win.\n\nOn October 22, 1989, the San Francisco 49ers played a home game at the stadium against the New England Patriots, due to damage suffered to Candlestick Park following the Loma Prieta earthquake five days earlier.\n\nThe stadium has hosted soccer matches for the 1984 Summer Olympics as one of three venues outside southern California for that Olympics, the 1994 FIFA World Cup, and the 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup.\n\nMajor League Soccer's San Jose Earthquakes have hosted one match at the stadium each year since 2011. The first year's opponent was the New York Red Bulls; since 2012, the Earthquakes have used the stadium to host their home leg of the California Clásico versus the Los Angeles Galaxy.\n\nOther high-profile events hosted at Stanford Stadium include Herbert Hoover's acceptance speech for the 1928 Republican Presidential nomination and the 1962 edition of the long-running (1958–1985) series of track meets between the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nThe stadium has gone a number of significant renovations since the 1920s. In 1960, a press box was added, while the first, and last synthetic athletics track was installed in 1978 (replacing the cinder track that had been used for many years).\n\nIn 1985, prior to Super Bowl XIX, the press box was renovated, new locker rooms were installed, a ticket complex and dressing room for game officials were added, and the number of restrooms were increased.\n\nIn 1994, prior to the 1994 FIFA World Cup, the lower level of the press box was expanded and aluminum benches were installed throughout the stadium. The crown of the playing surface was also reduced.\n\nIn 1995, a $10 million gift from Los Angeles insurance executive and 1935 Stanford graduate Louis W. Foster enabled further updates to the stadium, including widening the concourse, improving the restrooms, and replacing the remaining wooden seats. In honor of his gift, Stanford named the playing surface the Louis W. Foster Family Field at Stanford Stadium.\n\nIn June 2005, the university Board of Trustees authorized plans for the stadium's demolition and reconstruction that would remove the track, reduce the stadium capacity, and bring it up to date with present standards for sporting venues. Various justifications for the renovation included poor sightlines in the existing stadium (rendering the bottom 14 rows unusable), long stairways, and lack of adequate restroom facilities. The track around the stadium had previously created a large distance between the field and the spectators.\n\nThe capacity of the new stadium was set to be approximately 50,000 seats made by Ducharme Seating. The reduction in capacity was a strategic decision by Stanford's Athletics Program to boost season ticket sales and create a more intimate playing atmosphere without sacrificing the ability to host large world-class events, such as the FIFA World Cup in the future. This was partially the result of San Francisco's failure to secure a bid for the 2012 Olympics, which would have featured a renovated Stanford Stadium as the main Olympic Venue.\n\nConstruction began minutes after the Cardinal's last home game of the 2005 football season, a 38–31 loss to Notre Dame on November 26. Bulldozers began tearing out the natural field turf in a ceremony held while attendees were still in the stadium for the game. Construction proceeded quickly through the winter and spring with the goal of opening in time for Stanford's game against San Jose State on September 9, 2006, but the game had to be relocated to San Jose State's Spartan Stadium due to an unusually wet winter and resulting construction delays. In the summer of 2006, a construction worker fell to his death.\n\nThe stadium opened on September 16, 2006 with Stanford losing to Navy 37–9. The Stanford Band was not present at the stadium opening since they were not permitted to play at any athletic events in the month of September due to accusations of vandalism to a temporary trailer which formerly served as their rehearsal facility. Instead, the Navy band performed at halftime and played throughout the game.\n\nThe facility occupies , with a footprint of ., a playing surface below ground level, and is now a rectangle shape stadium. The stadium has 43 rows on the sides, 22 rows on the endzones, and 30 rows below the skybox. The skybox also has 437 spectator seats, more than double the number of the previous press box.\n\nIn 2013, Stanford upgraded their scoreboards with twin high-definition video boards. Also, a 1,673-foot ribbon board was added, which displays out-of-town scores and real-time statistics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41420547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41420547", "title": "Tabounsou FC", "text": "Tabounsou FC\n\nTabounsou FC is a football (soccer) club from Guinea. They are members of the Guinée Championnat National.\n"}
{"id": "9700456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9700456", "title": "Tanzania FA Cup", "text": "Tanzania FA Cup\n\nThe Tanzania FA Cup (also called the Azam Sports Federation Cup) is the top knockout tournament of the Tanzanian football.\n\nPreviously, the Nyerere Cup was the top knockout tournament. It was created in 1974 and was contested by teams from both Tanzania mainland and the Isles of Zanzibar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18438017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18438017", "title": "Texas Sports Hall of Fame", "text": "Texas Sports Hall of Fame\n\nThe Texas Sports Hall of Fame recognizes athletes, coaches, and administrators who have made \"lasting fame and honor to Texas sports\". It was established in 1951 by the Texas Sports Writers Association. Once it made its first induction (baseball star Tris Speaker) in 1951, Texas became the first U.S. state to have a sports hall of fame.\n\nHome of more than 300 Texas legends, the Texas Sports Hall of Fame was the idea of the sports editor at The Beaumont Enterprise. Thad Johnson spoke to the Texas Sportswriters Association during the 1949 Texas High School Coaches Association All Star Games in Beaumont about starting the Hall of Fame. The sports writers unanimously agreed with Johnson and in 1951 baseball great Tris Speaker was the inaugural inductee and Texas became the first state to honor its athletes with a hall of fame. The Texas Sports Hall of Fame under the guidance of Texas sports entrepreneur Lamar Hunt was opened in Grand Prairie on Saturday, May 23, 1981 but was closed in 1986. The Hall of Fame remained dormant until several prominent members of the Waco community created a plan in 1990 to have the Hall of Fame moved to Waco. \nTheir plan was realized on April 16, 1993 when Waco had its grand opening for the Texas Sports Hall of Fame. The museum also houses the Texas Tennis Museum and Hall of Fame and Texas High School Football Hall of Fame. The Hall of Fame expanded in 2010 to include a new banquet hall, the Health, Fitness and Education Center and Texas’ preeminent college conference, the Southwest Conference (SWC). The Southwest Conference was a national power conference for most of the century until it broke up in 1996. The Southwest Conference exhibit displays the grand history of college athletics in Texas. \nThe Texas Sports Hall of Fame is now truly representative of the athletic history in Texas as it sits at 35,000 sq. ft. History\n\nNominations for the Hall of Fame are open to the public. The selection committee, consisting of at least 21 sports journalists from various Texas newspapers, meets annually to review the nominees and make a ballot. The ballot consists of a primary and veterans section. The Primary Ballot has 20 names, while the Veterans has 12. Dues-paying members of the Hall of Fame vote each year to decide the inductees. The top 6 vote getters of the Primary Ballot and the top 2 of the Veterans are inducted into the Hall of Fame. The top 5 vote getters of each ballot who are not selected are automatically placed into the next year's ballot. \n\nThe Hall of Fame, with assistance from the selection committee, notifies the winning nominees once the voting process has completed. \n\nThe winning nominees, if they accept their induction, must then attend the banquet at Ferrell Center in Waco to be officially inducted into the Hall of Fame. If a nominee rejects their induction, the Hall of Fame inducts the next highest vote getter. If a nominee declines their induction for two consecutive years without a legitimate reason, the nominee will not be eligible for the ballot for another five years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15179290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15179290", "title": "Time-Megeve-Mont-Blanc", "text": "Time-Megeve-Mont-Blanc\n\nThe Time-Megeve-Mont-Blanc is a cyclosportive that takes place early June in the northern part of the French Alps, 45 km from Geneva. This cycling event attracts 2,000 riders on a 140-km route that starts from the valley town of Sallanches and includes three passes: Col de la Colombiere, Col des Aravis, and Col des Saisies. The event finishes in the ski resort of Megève. \n\nThere are three choices of circuit: 80 km (Colombiere, Aravis — climbing 2850 m); 110 km (Colombiere, Aravis, Saisies — climbing 3930 m); 140 km (Colombiere, Aravis, two different ascents of Saisies — climbing 4810 m).\n\nThe route is designed so that the total amount of climbing on the longest course exactly equals the height of nearby Mont Blanc, the highest mountain in the Alps and for which the event is named. To complete this long course participants have to have reached control points before certain cut-off times, otherwise they are re-directed on to the shorter versions of the route. This is possible because the routes of the three courses share the same initial and final sections, but the longer routes also incorporate various additional detours on the Col des Saises.\n\nThe 2014 edition incorporated three new routes heading south of Megeve into the Beaufortin range: 80km 2000 m of climbing with two ascents of Col des Saisies; 110 km 3100m climbing with two ascents of Col des Saisies, Col des Pres, Lac de Roseland; 135km 3500m climbing with two ascents of Col des Saisies, Col des Pres, Lac de Roseland; Col de la Forclaz. Safety considerations following the death of a Swiss rider in the 2010 edition has led to the organisers neutralising downhill sections, participants passing through timing sections at the top and bottom of the major climbs. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7732183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7732183", "title": "Turkey at the 1988 Winter Olympics", "text": "Turkey at the 1988 Winter Olympics\n\nTurkey competed at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13021799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13021799", "title": "VK Budva", "text": "VK Budva\n\nVaterpolo klub Budva (formerly SD VK Mogren between 1946 and 1992, PVK Budvanska Rivijera between 1992 and 2008) is a water polo club in Budva, Montenegro. It takes part in the Montenegrin Water Polo Cup.\nIn 2008 VK Budva started to participate in The Adriatic Water Polo League.\nBudva also played in Final four of Water Polo Euroleague in 2011 and finished 4th.\nBudva participate in Montenegrin Water Polo league along with PVK Jadran Herceg Novi\nand VK Primorac Kotor.\n\n\ncoach: Drago Pejaković\n\nFamous players\n\n"}
{"id": "54702986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54702986", "title": "Venezuela at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "Venezuela at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics\n\nVenezuela will compete at the 2017 World Championships in Athletics in London, United Kingdom, from 4–13 August 2017.\n"}
{"id": "56868148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56868148", "title": "XQc", "text": "XQc\n\nFélix Lengyel (born November 12, 1995), better known as xQc or xQcOW is a Canadian professional \"Overwatch\" player and Twitch.tv streamer who played the Main Tank position for the Dallas Fuel in the Overwatch League for part of the inaugural season, before being released due to repeated controversy. xQc has also played in the Overwatch World Cup as the Main Tank for Team Canada in 2017 & 2018.\n\nxQc began his career as a main tank player on the \"Overwatch\" team Q? which was later picked up by Denial eSports. After the team disbanded, xQc and the other members of the team played together under the name YIKES! which was later changed to Arc 6. After qualifying, they played in Season Zero of Overwatch Contenders but were ultimately eliminated in the group stage. Eventually, Arc 6 went their separate ways to focus on tryouts for Season 1 of the Overwatch League.\n\nxQc also played for Team Canada in their 2017 Overwatch World Cup campaign. They qualified for the World Cup after beating the Netherlands by a score of 3-0. The team made it all the way to the finals of the tournament before being defeated by defending champions, South Korea. xQc won the MVP Fan Vote for the tournament.\n\nOn October 28, 2017, Overwatch League franchise Dallas Fuel announced xQc would be joining their roster as their 9th player. xQc played with the team for several matches before coming under fire due to homophobic remarks made on his Twitch.tv stream directed against rival player Austin \"Muma\" Wilmot of the Houston Outlaws. Lengyel was suspended by the League for four matches and fined $2,000 for violating the Overwatch League Code of Conduct. The Dallas Fuel later extended the suspension to include the entirety of Stage 1. Lengyel made his return at the beginning of Stage 2, leading his team to victory against the LA Gladiators, and was chosen as Omen by HP's Player Of The Match. However, he only played for a little bit longer, before being suspended and fined again, and then finally released from the team, this time for posting a Twitch emote in the chat which was received by many in a racially disparaging manner and using disparaging language to Overwatch League casters.\n\nxQc then said he was going to take a break from professional play, retiring to become a full time streamer. He continued full time streaming for several months, before making the decision to return to pro play, playing with the Contenders Trials NA team GOATS.\n\nAt the moment, xQc is playing main tank on the starting roster for Team Canada in the 2018 Overwatch World Cup. Several months prior to the world cup, the head coach of team Canada, Justin \"Jayne\" Conroy announced on his Twitch stream that xQc, along with players Lucas “NotE” Meissner, Brady “Agilities” Girardi, Lane “Surefour” Roberts and Liam “Mangachu” Campbell, would be welcome to join the Canadian national team without going through the regular trialing process. He played in the Los Angeles Group Stage, finishing second place to move on to the Quarterfinals at BlizzCon.\n\nPrior to major incidents in the Overwatch League, there were known cases of controversial acts. His account was suspended twice for violating Blizzard's Terms Of Use. The first incident occurred in November 2017, xQc was booted mid-match from a competitive Overwatch game with a suspension message. He was suspended for 72 hours for \"misuse of the reporting system\". xQc had used the in-game reporting system for reporting players for supposedly invalid reasons. He had reported a player for refusing to switch off of a hero, even after repeatedly dying.\n\nWhile streaming in December 2017 xQc threw a competitive game. Blizzard responded with a seven-day suspension, and xQc posted a video to publicly apologize for his behavior.\n\nOver the course of his time with the Dallas Fuel, xQc was suspended twice. His first suspension came after Dallas Fuel's loss to the Houston Outlaws in Stage 1. xQc made homophobic remarks towards openly gay Houston Outlaws player Austin \"Muma\" Wilmot after Wilmot used xQc's own catch phrase against him after the match (xQc did not play in that match). The Overwatch League then fined xQc $2,000 and suspended him for 4 matches. The Dallas Fuel later extended that suspension to the remainder of Stage 1.\n\nxQc returned from his suspension in Stage 2 only to be fined and suspended again for using the Twitch emoticon TriHard in a \"racially disparaging manner\" in Twitch chat as African-American broadcaster Malik Forté appeared on stream and using disparaging language against Overwatch League casters and fellow players on social media and on his personal stream. This time, xQc received a $4,000 fine and was suspended for 4 matches. On March 11, 2018 the Dallas Fuel announced that the team and xQc had mutually parted ways. In an interview, xQc said that although he likes to play at a professional level, he also enjoys creating content on Twitch. If he receives an offer to play in a professional team again, he said he'd have to think about it a while.\n\nOn August 11, 2018 xQc's account was suspended once again for violating the Abusive Chat policy. He had apparently been reported by teammates several times for this offense. Overwatch World Cup issued an official warning for the suspension, but he was allowed to play. \n"}
