{"id": "57662956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57662956", "title": "2004 Lahsuna massacre", "text": "2004 Lahsuna massacre\n\nOn 18 May 2004, four people were massacred at Lahsuna village in Bihar state of India.\n\nMembers of the People's War Group, a outlawed naxal group, were accused of the crime. About 100 armed members of the group reportedly dragged the victims out of their homes and killed them for casting their votes in favour of Janata Dal (United).\n\nThe victims were identified as Uday Paswan, Naga Paswan, Vijay Paswan and Sarwan Paswan.\n\nIn 2008, three members of the group were found guilty of the killings and were awarded capital punishment by a court in Patna.\n"}
{"id": "52703994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52703994", "title": "Abutia", "text": "Abutia\n\nAbutia, also: \"Abutia Area\", is a Kingdom in West Africa, in the East of the Republic of Ghana, Volta Region.\n\nAbutia is a traditional area in Ghana with Teti, Agorve and Kloe as its three (3) main towns.\n\nIn colonial time Abutia was part of Togoland as German Colony from 1984 to 1916 and British Colony from 1916 to 1945.\nWhen Ghana gained independence on 6 March 1957, Abutia became part of the Republic of Ghana.\n\nIn 1992 the parliament enacted the new constitution of the Republic of Ghana, which the traditional areas got the cultural sovereignty (\"subnational monarchy\"). In 2008 a special decree of the chieftaincy was established.\n\nSince 1998 the Togbe (King) and traditional ruler is Togbe Abutia Kodzo Gidi V.\n\nThe traditional national territory of Abutia is located between latitudes 6.33˚ 3ˈ N and 6.93˚ 6ˈ N and longitudes 0.17˚ 4ˈ E and 0.53˚ 39ˈ E. It shares boundaries with th eAfadjato area to the North, the Adaklu District to the South, South Dayi District to the West, Ho Municipal and the Republic of Togo to the East.\n\nIt has a total land area of 1.002,79 km².\n\nHeutige Städte und Regionen von Abutia sind:\n\nThe Kalakpa Resource Reserve is the famous national park in Abutia, Ghana. It is located in the South-East of the Abutia Hills Forest Reserve between 6°18' and 6°28' N and 0°17' and 0°30' E and in the Abutia and Adaklu traditional areas. The Kalakpa River divides the Abutia land from the Adaklu land. The Reserve covers an area of about 325 km² square of forest/savanna transition zone, and the dominant vegetation is the dry Borassus-Combretum woodland.\n\n"}
{"id": "19988709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19988709", "title": "Amateurs Radio Algeriens", "text": "Amateurs Radio Algeriens\n\nThe Amateurs Radio Algeriens (ARA; English: Association of Algerian Radio Amateurs) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Algeria. The organisation was founded on March 23, 1963.\nKey membership benefits of the ARA include a QSL bureau for those amateur radio operators in regular communications with other amateur radio operators in foreign countries, and a network to support amateur radio emergency communications. The ARA represents the interests of Algerian amateur radio operators before Algerian and international regulatory authorities. The ARA is the national member society representing Algeria in the International Amateur Radio Union.\n\nIn 2013 the organisation celebrated its 50th anniversary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2544563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2544563", "title": "Canelos-Quichua", "text": "Canelos-Quichua\n\nThe Canelos-Quichua, also known as the Quichua of Pastaza, is an Indigenous people of Ecuador. They are a Lowland Quichua (Runa Shimi) people, inhabiting the province of Pastaza on the banks of the Curaray, Bonbonaza, and Pastaza rivers, in Peru and Ecuador.\n"}
{"id": "10400436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10400436", "title": "Chambre du Roi", "text": "Chambre du Roi\n\nLa chambre du roi (), the King's Bedchamber, has always been the central feature of the king's apartment in traditional French palace design Ceremonies surrounding the daily life of the king — such as the \"levée\" (the ceremonial raising and dressing of the king held in the morning) and the \"coucher\" (the ceremonial undressing and putting to bed of the king) — were conducted in the bedchamber.\n\nIn 17th century France under the absolutism of Louis XIV, the bedchamber became the focal point — physically as well as ideologically — of the palace of Versailles. However, the bedchamber — and more particularly the bed — played a singular role in French cultural history during the Ancien Régime. \n\nWhile a throne has been associated with most European monarchies as a symbol of temporal authority, in France of the Ancien Régime, the throne was virtually non-existent. The only time that a throne, per se, was used during the Ancien Régime was during the king’s coronation — as which time it was known as the \"chaise du sacre\" — and was used only for the ceremonies of anointing and crowning of the king. During the Ancien Régime, the true symbol of royal authority was the bed.\n\nOn the morning of the king’s coronation one of the high-ranking ecclesiastic and one of the high-ranking secular peers of the realm (respectively, usually the archbishop of Laon and the duke of Burgundy; however, this varied depending on the internal politics at the time of the coronation) would arrive at the door of the king's bedchamber in the Palais de Tau (the archiepiscopal palace at Reims). The ceremony of the waking king would ensue: the peers would knock on the door of the king’s bedchamber and ask, “We have come for the king.” “He is not here,” would be intoned from behind the door. The question would be placed twice more; the reply to the third time the question was asked, would be, “He is not here, he is risen.” At which point, the door opened and the peers saw the king, fully dressed in his coronation robes, reclining on the bed. The two peers would then ceremonially lift the king to his feet and escort him to the cathedral for the coronation.\n\nMonarchial rule in France under the Ancien Régime was autocratic and the king’s will was obeyed, by and large, universally in the realm. However, there were occasions in which royal authority was challenged — namely with the Parlements. During the Ancien Régime, France was divided into jurisdictions which presided — in the name of the king — over legal issues. The Parlement de Paris was the oldest and held sway over the provincial parlements. When royal edicts needed to be officially registered, they were sent to the Parlement de Paris (or provincial parlements, depending on the issue at hand). If the parlement judged the edict not to be in the interest of the state, it would refuse to register the edict. In such cases, the king would appear in state and would preside over a ceremony in which he would impose his will on parlement to force registration of the edict. This ceremony was call a \"lit de justice\" — bed of justice. Rather than the king sitting on a throne, he would recline on a bed-like piece of furniture in order to preside over the ceremony. \n\nThe bed as a symbol of royal authority was further emphasized in that the bed was always placed in an alcove that was separated by a decorative balustrade. Entry into the alcove behind the balustrade was strictly forbidden, unless authorized by the king. Additionally, during the Ancien Régime, court etiquette demanded that when one passed in front of the king’s bed, reverence had to be paid: women deeply curtsied; men removed their hats and bowed. Furthermore, when the king died, a full-sized effigy would be placed on the bed and displayed publicly for two weeks, until the king’s body had been interred in the royal crypt at the Basilica of Saint Denis.\n\nIn many respect, the \"chambre du roi\" and the bed represented the unbroken continuation of the monarchy. For while the corporeal aspect of the king died, the spiritual — which is to say the soul of the king and, by association, that of the state — passed unbroken to the successor.\n"}
{"id": "38034649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38034649", "title": "Chandas (poetry)", "text": "Chandas (poetry)\n\nMetrical poetry in Kannada and Telugu is called Chandas or Chandassu () and (). Prose and poetry follows the rules of Chandassu to design the structural\nfeatures of 'poetry'. Chandassu is a definable aspect of many definable and indefinable aspects of poetry. Chandassu generates rhythm to the literature when the rules are properly followed. Rhythm is important to literature as a preliminary attraction.\n\n'Chandas' is constructed based on the number of 'aksharaas' (syllables) in each line (also called paadam) of a poem. \n\nAs the same lines are repeated (aaVrutta), these are called 'Vruttaas'. If all the lines in a poem follow the same 'types of aksharaas', it is called a 'sama Vrutta'.\n\nThere are separate Telugu equivalents for English words 'letter' and 'syllable'. The first one is 'varNamu' (letter). This is the basic 'letter' of the Telugu in the alphabets, and is called 'varNa samaamnaayamu'. There are fifty six 'varNa samaamnaayamu'(s) in Telugu. \n\nThe equivalent for 'syllable' in Telugu is 'aksharamu'. 'Syllable' is often defined as the 'unit of pronunciation at a stretch' with a collection of letters (varNaas) in it. \n\nFor example, in a word like 'svapnamu', 'sva' is an aksharamu (syllable), but not a varNamu (letter) as it has two 'varNaas' (sa and va) in it. \n\nThese 'aksharaas' (syllables) are divided into 'laghuvu' and 'guruvu' based on the time period of pronunciation. These 'aksharaas' or syllables are the fundamental aspects in constructing the 'chandas' in Telugu.\n\nMeters of the same length are distinguished by the pattern of laghuvu (\"light\") and guruvu (\"heavy\") syllables in the \"paadam\".\n\nPattern of laghuvu and guruvu in a sequence of three is called Gaṇam (Group). The word ya-maa-taa-raa-ja-bhaa-na-sa-la-gam is called \"Gana Suchi\" (Look up for Ganams). \nExample:\n\nThese Ganam(s) are divided into three major categories:\n\nBased on categories of Ganam(s), Telugu poetry is classified as \n\n\"Upajaati\" only has yati (caesura) but no praasa (rhythm) where as \"Jaati\" and \"Vruttaas\" contain both yati (caesura) and prasaa (rhythm).\n\nThere are 26 types of chandas. Each 'chandas' is recognized by the number of 'aksharaas' or Syllables present in each line of the poem. As an 'akshara' can be either a 'laghuvu' or a 'guruvu', the number of variations possible in each type of 'chandas' follows a 'binary system'. The names /numbers of 'chandas' and the numbers of 'sama Vruttaas' that can be generated in each variety are as follows.\n\nThe total number of sama Vruttaas in 26 chandassus is 134,217,726.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16716976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16716976", "title": "Children's rights in Chile", "text": "Children's rights in Chile\n\nChildren's rights in Chile are secured by a number of national initiatives supported at all levels of government.\n\nIn Chile education is universal, compulsory, and free from first through 12th grade. The latest government figures showed that in 2002 the median level of education was 10 years but varied regionally and across age groups. The World Bank reported that in 2004 more than 90 percent of school-age children attended school. Three-quarters of the population had completed primary education (eight years), and 61 percent had secondary education (12 years). The government provides basic health care through a public system, which included regular checkups, vaccinations, and emergency health care. Boys and girls had equal access to health care.\n\nViolence against children has been a problem in Chile. A 2003 study by the Citizens' Peace Foundation indicated that 60 percent of children surveyed between the ages of seven and 10 had suffered some type of aggression against them or their belongings either inside or outside their homes. A 2006 UNICEF study reported that 75 percent of 13- and 14-year-olds reported they were subject to some type of physical or psychological violence from one or both parents, including 26 percent who reported having suffered serious physical violence (e.g., beatings, cuts, and burns).\n\nFrom January to November, the Public Ministry reported 197 cases of commercial juvenile sexual exploitation, compared with 195 cases in all of 2005. Since June 2003 the government's National Children's Service (SENAME) assisted more than 2,100 victims of commercial juvenile sexual exploitation. SENAME, the Carabineros, and PICH worked together, along with schools and NGOs, to identify children in abusive situations, provide abused children with counseling and other social services, and keep families intact.\n\nChild prostitution in Chile has been a problem, as well as child labor in the informal economy.\n\n"}
{"id": "50417566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50417566", "title": "Data Re-Identification", "text": "Data Re-Identification\n\nData Re-Identification is the practice of matching anonymous data (also known as de-identified data) with publicly available information, or auxiliary data, in order to discover the individual to which the data belongs to. This is a concern because companies with privacy policies, health care providers, and financial institutions may release the data they collect after the data has gone through the de-identification process. The de-identification process involves masking, generalizing or deleting both direct and indirect identifiers; the definition of this process is not universal, however. Information in the public domain, even seemingly anonymized, may thus be re-identified in combination with other pieces of available data and basic computer science techniques. The Common Rule Agencies, a collection of multiple U.S. federal agencies and departments including the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, speculate that re-identification is becoming gradually easier because of \"big data\" - the abundance and constant collection and analysis of information along the evolution of technologies and the advances of algorithms. However, others have claimed that de-identification is a safe and effective data liberation tool and do not view re-identification as a concern.\n\nA 2000 study found that 87 percent of the U.S. population can be identified using a combination of their gender, birthdate and zip code. Others do not think that re-identification is a serious threat, and call it a \"myth\"; they claim that the combination of zip code, date of birth and gender is rare or partially complete, such as only the year and month birth without the date, or the county name instead of the specific zip code, thus the risk of such re-identification is reduced in many instances.\n\nExisting privacy regulations typically protect information that has been modified, so that the data is deemed anonymized, or de-identified. For financial information, the Federal Trade Commission permits its circulation if it is de-identified and aggregated. The Gramm Leach Bliley Act (GLBA), which mandates financial institutions give consumers the opportunity to opt out of having their information shared with third parties, does not cover de-identified data if the information is aggregate and does not contain personal identifiers, since this data is not treated as personally identifiable information.\n\nIn terms of university records, authorities both on the state and federal level have shown an awareness about issues of privacy in education and a distaste for institutions' disclosure of information. The U.S. Department of Education has provided guidance about data discourse and identification, instructing educational institutions to be sensitive to the risk of re-identification of anonymous data by cross-referencing with auxiliary data, to minimize the amount of data in the public domain by decreasing publication of directory information about students and institutional personnel, and to be consistent in the processes of de-identification.\n\nMedical information of patients are becoming increasingly available on the Internet, on free and publicly accessing platforms such as HealthData.gov and PatientsLikeMe, encouraged by government open data policies and data-sharing initiatives spearheaded by the private sector. While this level of accessibility yields many benefits, concerns regarding discrimination and privacy have been raised. Protections on medical records and consumer data from pharmacies are stronger compared to those for other kinds of consumer data. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) protects the privacy of identifiable data about health, but authorize information release to third parties if de-identified. In addition, it mandates that patients receive breach notifications should there be more than a low probability that the patient's information was inappropriately disclosed or utilized without sufficient mitigation of the harm to him or her. The likelihood of re-identification is a factor in determining the probability that the patient's information has been compromised. Commonly, pharmacies sell de-identified information to data mining companies that sell to pharmaceutical companies in turn.\nThere have been state laws enacted to ban data mining of medical information, but they were struck down by federal courts in Maine and New Hampshire on First Amendment grounds. Another federal court on another case used \"illusive\" to describe concerns about privacy of patients and did not recognize the risks of re-identification.\n\nThe Notice of Proposed Rule Making, published by the Common Rule Agencies in September 2015, expanded the umbrella term of \"human subject\" in research to include biospecimens, or materials taken from the human body - blood, urine, tissue etc. This mandates that researchers using biospecimens must follow the stricter requirements of doing researcher with human subjects. The rationale for this is the increased risk of re-identification of biospecimen. The final revisions affirmed this regulation.\n\nThere have been a sizable amount of successful attempts of re-identification in different fields. Even if it is not easy for a lay person to break anonymity, once the steps to do so are disclosed and learnt, there is no need for higher level knowledge to access information in a database. Sometimes, technical expertise is not even needed if a population has a unique combination of identifiers.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, a government agency in Massachusetts called Group Insurance Commission (GIC), which purchased health insurance for employees of the state, decided to release records of hospital visits to any researcher who requested the data, at no cost. GIC assured that the patient's privacy was not a concern since it had removed identifiers such as name, addresses, social security numbers. However, information such as zip codes, birth date and sex remained untouched. The GIC assurance was reinforced by the then governor of Massachusetts, William Weld. Latanya Sweeney, a graduate student at the time, put her mind to picking out the governor's records in the GIC data. By combining the GIC data with the voter database of the city Cambridge, which she purchased for 20 dollars, Governor Weld's record was discovered with ease.\n\nIn 1997, a researcher successfully de-anonymized medical records using voter databases.\n\nIn 2001, Professor Latanya Sweeney again successfully matched anonymized hospital visit records in the state of Washington to individual persons using the state's voting records 43% of the time.\n\nThere are existing algorithms used to re-identify patient with prescription drug information.\n\nTwo researchers at the University of Texas, Arvind Narayanan and Professor Vitaly Shmatikov, were able to re-identity some portion of anonymized Netflix movie-ranking data with individual consumers on the streaming website. The data was released by Netflix 2006 after de-identification, which consisted of replacing individual names with random numbers and moving around personal details. The two researchers de-anonymized some of the data by comparing it with non-anonymous IMDb (Internet Movie Database) users’ movie ratings. Very little information from the database, it was found, was needed to identify the subscriber. In the resulting research paper, there were startling revelations of how easy it is to re-identify Netflix users. For example, simply knowing data about only two movies a user has reviewed, including the precise rating and the date of rating give or take three days allows for 68% re-identification success.\n\nIn 2006, after AOL published its users' search queries, data that was anonymized prior to the public release, New York Times reporters successfully carried out re-identification of individuals by taking groups of searches made by anonymized users. AOL had attempted to suppress identifying information, including usernames and IP addresses, but had replaced these with unique identification numbers to preserve the utility of this data for researchers. Bloggers, after the release, pored over the data, either trying to identify specific users with this content, or to point out entertaining, depressing, or shocking search queries, examples of which include \"how to kill you wife,\" \"depression and medical leave,\" \"car crash photos.\" Two reporters, Michael Barbro and Tom Zeller, were able to track down a 62 year old widow named Thelma Arnold from recognizing clues to the identity of User 417729 search histories. Arnold acknowledged that she was the author of the searches, confirming that re-identification is possible.\n\nThe individuals whose data is re-identified is also at risk of having their information, with their identity attached it, sold to organizations they do not want possessing private information about their finances, health or preferences. The release of this data may cause anxiety, shame or embarrassment. Once an individual's privacy has been breached as a result of re-identification, future breaches become much easier: once an link is made between one piece of data and a person's real identity, any association between the data and an anonymous identity breaks anonymity of the person.\n\nRe-identification may expose companies which have pledged to assure anonymity to increased liability to contract or to tort and cause them to violate their privacy policies by having released information to third parties that can identify users after re-identification. Not only will they violate internal policies, institutions may also violate state and federal laws, such laws concerning financial confidentiality or medical privacy.\n\nTo address the drawbacks of re-identification, there have been multiple proposals put forward:\n\nWhile a complete ban on re-identification has been urged, the enforcement of this is impossible. However, there are ways for lawmakers to combat and punish re-identification efforts, if and when they are exposed:pair a ban with harsher penalties and stronger enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, grant victims of re-identification a right of action against those who re-identify them, mandate software audit trails for people who utilize and analyze anonymized data. A small-scale re-identification ban may also be imposed on trusted recipients of particular databases, such as government data miners. This ban would be much easier to enforce and may discourage re-identification in other spheres and in the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "68975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68975", "title": "Demographics of Benin", "text": "Demographics of Benin\n\nThe demographics of Benin include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nThe majority of Benin’s /1e6 round 2 million people live in the south. The population is young, with a life expectancy of 62 years.\n\nAbout 42 African ethnic groups live in this country; these various groups settled in Benin at different times and also migrated within the country. Ethnic groups include:\n\nFrench is the official language but is spoken more in urban than in rural areas. The literacy rate is 52.2% adult males and 23.6% adult females, and slowly growing. Recent migrations have brought other African Nationals to Benin: Nigerians, Togolese, Malians, etc. The foreign community also includes many Lebanese and Indians involved in trade and commerce. The personnel of the many European Embassies and Foreign Aid Missions and of nongovernmental organizations and various missionary groups account for a large number of the 5,500 European population.\n\nSeveral religions are practiced in Benin. African Traditional Religion is widespread (50%), and its practices vary from one ethnic group to the other. Arab merchants introduced Islam in the north and among the Yoruba. European missionaries brought Christianity to the south and central areas of Benin. Muslims account for 20% of the population and Christians for 30%. Many nominal Muslims and Christians continue to practice African Traditional Religion traditions. It is believed that West African Vodun originated in Benin and was introduced to Brazil and the Caribbean Islands by slaves taken from this particular area of the Slave Coast.\n\nAccording to the total population was in , compared to only 2 255 000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 43.7%, 53.3% were between 15 and 65 years of age, while 3% were of 65 years or older\n\nRegistration of vital events is in Benin not complete. The Population Departement of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nBirths and deaths \n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nFertility data as of 2011-2012 (DHS Program):\n\nThere are several dozen ethnolinguistic groups in Benin, representing three of Africa's language families: Niger–Congo, Nilo-Saharan, and Afroasiatic. The latter is represented by Hausa living mostly as merchants in the north, while Nilo-Saharan is represented by the Dɛndi, descending from the Songhai Empire. The Dɛndi language predominates along the Niger River in the far north, and is used as a lingua franca in Muslim areas throughout the north, in Alibori, Borgou, and Donga provinces. Of the Niger–Congo family, five branches are represented:\n\n\nThe largest ethnic group are the Fon, with 1.7 million speakers of the Fon language (2001), followed by the various Yoruba groups (1.2 million), the Aja (600,000), the Bariba (460,000), the Ayizo (330,000), the Fulani (310,000), and the Gun (240,000). Near the ports in the south can be found many people who are descended from returned Brazilian slaves. There are also small numbers of Europeans, principally French, and people from the western Asia, mainly Lebanese, and East Asia, chiefly Indians.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nEnglish demonym and adjective:\n\nFrench demonym and adjective:\n\nOver 50 languages are spoken in Benin. The official language is French. Of the many indigenous African languages, Fon and Yoruba are the most important in southern\nBenin, and in the north there are at least six major languages, including Baatonum and Fulani.\n\n \"and the 2003 U.S. Department of State website.\"\n"}
{"id": "53859548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53859548", "title": "Desert X", "text": "Desert X\n\nDesert X is a site-specific, contemporary art exhibition that was installed in the Coachella Valley in California from February 25 to April 30, 2017. \n\nDesert X was formed by Desert Biennial, a 501(C) charitable organization founded in 2015. The exhibit is meant to bring attention to the valley's environment through the display of works by emerging artists. Themes include climate change, immigration, tourism, gambling, and Native American culture.\n\nWorks included a camouflaged house covered in mirrors, an autonomous vehicle known as the \"ShyBot\" that is programmed to avoid people, as well as an underground bunker with a kitsch sculpture of John F. Kennedy. In February 2017 the robot’s creator, an Italian artist known as \"Norma Jeane\", lost contact with ShyBot. All communication was lost, and some thought the art robot was \"bot-napped\". In July 2018, an off-roader found ShyBot and through a QR code on the body was able to contact Desert X and facilitate her return. Desert X is to return in 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "54993296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54993296", "title": "Digital divide in Nigeria", "text": "Digital divide in Nigeria\n\nNigeria's digital divide refers to the inequality of Nigerian individuals, groups, or organizations with regards to access to Information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure or to the internet for municipal use within the Nigerian community. Education, lack of electrical infrastructure, income, and urban drift, and a variety of other social and political factors contribute to Nigeria's growing digital divide.\n\nEfforts are currently being made to reduce the digital divide in Nigeria including collaboration between government agencies and technology corporations like Google, Cchub, Andela, StarBridge Africa, Microsoft and Intel, using libraries as E-learning (theory) facilities, and proposing governmental policies such as salary enhancement and social security.\n\nNigeria is Africa's most populous country at 186 million people and sporting an urban vs. rural distribution of 48.3% to 51.7% respectively. Despite its large supply of natural resources and being the second largest oil producer in the world, the Gross domestic product of Nigeria is 1,400 USD per person. Bribery and embezzlement of governmental funds from previous Nigerian leaders cost the Nigerian people the ability to afford access to the latest educational achievements.\n\nOne-third of Nigeria's populace lack basic literacy, with the proportion of literate to illiterate Nigerians largely dependent on settlement and gender. The table below shows that Nigerians within urban areas are more likely to be literate than those in rural areas and that men are more likely to be literate than women.\n\nLiteracy rates between male and female Nigerians in rural and urban communities.\nAn inclusive society is a society in which every person has an equal opportunity to engage in societal dialogue no matter the social class, wealth, education, etc. A person without an education cannot effectively contribute to the modern world. Education teaches skills, ethics, and values which are required to lead a responsible citizen. Education also distinguishes from ignorance and allows a person to face challenges of the modern world. There are many benefits to an inclusive educational system, such as all children form a sense of belonging in their community, encourages parents to participate in their child's education, and allows children to accept individual differences, among children their age.\n\nNigeria's youth population has also been significantly affected by the digital divide. Instability has risen among the Nigerian youth as they are overwhelmed by the capabilities and power of ICTs. Illiteracy rates for young men and women are also very high in the rural and urban settlements. Countries with a lot of uneducated youths, like Nigeria, face the risk of restiveness and instability which stalls development and economic development.\n\nDeveloped nations use electronic learning or \"e-learning\" to extend educational advantages to countries and societies excluded from educational institutions. E-learning is a method of stimulating education, learning through the merging of internet and electronic medias, and is one of systems the Nigerian government are using to bridge the educational gap caused by the digital divide. E-learning makes use of existing information and communications technology infrastructure and available resources lowering a country's economic and financial strain. E-learning also has the added benefits of providing users consistent content and being readily available. Participants of E-learning are also able to work at their own pace, which improves information retention as the program gives immediate feed-back.\n\nThe Computers for All Nigerians Initiative (CANi) is a program focused on enhancing Nigeria's economic and social foundation by supplying access to personal computers (PCs) and internet to its citizens. The program is a result of a joint effort between Nigeria's Federal Ministry of Science and Technology (FMST) and its National Information Technology and Development Agency (NITDA) with local banks and PC producers, as well as private technology companies like Intel and Microsoft. In order to avoid supplying CANi participants with expensive or poor-quality personal computers, CANi utilizes the aid of government provided subsidies and tax waivers; as well as support from technological companies to develop and produce affordable ICTs.\n\nWith qualified personnel on-hand and already existing ICT infrastructure, Nigerian libraries can utilize their resources to serve as e-learning centers. Previously, libraries were more focused towards collecting information than making it accessible. Presently, efforts have been made to upload their print resources to electronic databases. Making these resources, along with ICTs publicly available to the Nigerian people will help enable innovation in managerial and operational processes within libraries. Plans are also being implemented for classes on Information literacy to be taught within these public spaces enabling Nigerians with the critical thinking skills required to locate, process, and effectively use information they find. However, operating and maintaining e-learning facilities and the subsequent ICTs require a steady energy supply.\n\nSocial security is used to help lower the poverty level; it provides those people below the poverty line with the basic necessities, such as food to help their family survive. Social security would give assistance to people by decreasing their fear of acquiring basic necessities and start focusing on closing the digital divide gap.\n\nSalary enhancement is the improvement of salaries for rural workers; this would help close the digital divide gap in rural areas. Salary enhancement would give people an incentive to work harder and gain knowledge about technology. Salary enhancement would also give workers more money to spend on technology; therefore, closing the digital divide gap even more. Salary enhancement would also cause a change in the population of urban and rural areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "4578274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4578274", "title": "Dromedary bag", "text": "Dromedary bag\n\nA dromedary bag is a collapsible plastic bladder for holding water for drinking. Backpackers carry dromedary bags in areas where water is not readily available or is not clean enough to drink. Dromedary bags are useful when traveling through the desert, but are generally too heavy for extended trips. The opening sequences of the film \"Wild\" demonstrate the heaviness of a backpack laden with water.\n\nNot to be confused with the hydration pack, dromedary bags are able to carry larger amounts of water. They are much more effective at distributing water amongst a group rather than personal use only. The dromedary bag was invented by Sir Thomas Mitchell whilst exploring South east Queensland and seeing Aborigines carrying water in kangaroo skins.\n"}
{"id": "148131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148131", "title": "Economic development", "text": "Economic development\n\nEconomic development is the process by which a nation improves the economic, political, and social well-being of its people. The term has been used frequently by economists, politicians, and others in the 20th and 21st centuries. The concept, however, has been in existence in the West for centuries. \"Modernization, \"westernization\", and especially \"industrialization\" are other terms often used while discussing economic development. Economic development has a direct relationship with the environment and environmental issues. Economic development is very often confused with industrial development, even in some academic sources.\n\nWhereas economic development is a policy intervention endeavor with aims of improving the economic and social well-being of people, economic growth is a phenomenon of market productivity and rise in GDP. Consequently, as economist Amartya Sen points out, \"economic growth is one aspect of the process of economic development\".\n\nThe scope of economic development includes the process and policies by which a nation improves the economic, political, and social well-being of its people.\n\nThe University of Iowa's Center for International Finance and Development states that:\n\nAlthough nobody is certain when the concept originated, some people agree that development is closely bound up with the evolution of capitalism and the demise of feudalism.\n\nMansell and When also state that economic development has been understood since the World War II to involve economic growth, namely the increases in per capita income, and (if currently absent) the attainment of a standard of living equivalent to that of industrialized countries. Economic development can also be considered as a static theory that documents the state of an economy at a certain time. According to Schumpeter and Backhaus (2003), the changes in this equilibrium state to document in economic theory can only be caused by intervening factors coming from the outside.\n\nEconomic development originated in the post-war period of reconstruction initiated by the United States. In 1949, during his inaugural speech, President Harry Truman identified the development of undeveloped areas as a priority for the west:\n\nThere have been several major phases of development theory since 1945. From the 1940s to the 1960s the state played a large role in promoting industrialization in developing countries, following the idea of modernization theory. This period was followed by a brief period of basic needs development focusing on human capital development and redistribution in the 1970s. Neoliberalism emerged in the 1980s pushing an agenda of free trade and removal of import substitution industrialization policies.\n\nIn economics, the study of economic development was borne out of an extension to traditional economics that focused entirely on national product, or the aggregate output of goods and services. Economic development was concerned with the expansion of people’s entitlements and their corresponding capabilities, morbidity, nourishment, literacy, education, and other socio-economic indicators. Borne out of the backdrop of Keynesian economics (advocating government intervention), and neoclassical economics (stressing reduced intervention), with the rise of high-growth countries (Singapore, South Korea, Hong Kong) and planned governments (Argentina, Chile, Sudan, Uganda), economic development and more generally development economics emerged amidst these mid-20th century theoretical interpretations of how economies prosper. Also, economist Albert O. Hirschman, a major contributor to development economics, asserted that economic development grew to concentrate on the poor regions of the world, primarily in Africa, Asia and Latin America yet on the outpouring of fundamental ideas and models.\n\nIt has also been argued, notably by Asian and European proponents of infrastructure-based development, that systematic, long-term government investments in transportation, housing, education, and healthcare are necessary to ensure sustainable economic growth in emerging countries.\n\nEconomic growth deals with increase in the level of output, but economic development is related to increase in output coupled with improvement in social and political welfare of people within a country. Therefore, economic development encompasses both growth and welfare values.\n\nDependency theorists argue that poor countries have sometimes experienced economic growth with little or no economic development initiatives; for instance, in cases where they have functioned mainly as resource-providers to wealthy industrialized countries. There is an opposing argument, however, that growth causes development because some of the increase in income gets spent on human development such as education and health.\n\nAccording to Ranis et al., economic growth and development is a two-way relationship. According to them, the first chain consists of economic growth benefiting human development, since economic growth is likely to lead families and individuals to use their heightened incomes to increase expenditures, which in turn furthers human development. At the same time, with the increased consumption and spending, health, education, and infrastructure systems grow and contribute to economic growth.\n\nIn addition to increasing private incomes, economic growth also generates additional resources that can be used to improve social services (such as healthcare, safe drinking water, etc.). By generating additional resources for social services, unequal income distribution will be mitigated as such social services are distributed equally across each community, thereby benefiting each individual.\nConcisely, the relationship between human development and economic development can be explained in three ways. First, increase in average income leads to improvement in health and nutrition (known as Capability Expansion through Economic Growth). Second, it is believed that social outcomes can only be improved by reducing income poverty (known as Capability Expansion through Poverty Reduction). Lastly, social outcomes can also be improved with essential services such as education, healthcare, and clean drinking water (known as Capability Expansion through Social Services).\nJohn Joseph Puthenkalam's research aims at the process of economic growth theories that lead to economic development. After analyzing the existing capitalistic growth-development theoretical apparatus, he introduces the new model which integrates the variables of freedom, democracy and human rights into the existing models and argue that any future economic growth-development of any nation depends on this emerging model as we witness the third wave of unfolding demand for democracy in the Middle East. He develops the knowledge sector in growth theories with two new concepts of 'micro knowledge' and 'macro knowledge'. Micro knowledge is what an individual learns from school or from various existing knowledge and macro knowledge is the core philosophical thinking of a nation that all individuals inherently receive. How to combine both these knowledge would determine further growth that leads to economic development of developing nations.\n\nYet others believe that a number of basic building blocks need to be in place for growth and development to take place. For instance, some economists believe that a fundamental first step toward development and growth is to address property rights issues, otherwise only a small part of the economic sector will be able to participate in growth. That is, without inclusive property rights in the equation, the informal sector will remain outside the mainstream economy, excluded and without the same opportunities for study. \nThe economic development of countries can also be implicated or contributed by the multinational corporations companies .\n\nThe development of a country has been associated with different concepts but generally encompasses economic growth through higher productivity, political systems that represent as accurately as possible the preferences of its citizens, the extension of rights to all social groups and the opportunities to get them and the proper functionality of institutions and organizations that are able to attend more technically and logistically complex tasks (i.e. raise taxes and deliver public services). These processes describe the State’s capabilities to manage its economy, polity, society and public administration. Generally, economic development policies attempt to solve issues in these topics.\n\nWith this in mind, economic development is typically associated with improvements in a variety of areas or indicators (such as literacy rates, life expectancy, and poverty rates), that may be causes of economic development rather than consequences of specific economic development programs. For example, health and education improvements have been closely related to economic growth, but the causality with economic development may not be obvious. In any case, it is important to not expect that particular economic development programs be able to fix many problems at once as that would be establishing unsurmountable goals for them that are highly unlikely they can achieve. Any development policy should set limited goals and a gradual approach to avoid falling victim to something Prittchet, Woolcock and Andrews call ‘premature load bearing’.\n\nMany times the economic development goals of specific countries cannot be reached because they lack the State’s capabilities to do so. For example, if a nation has little capacity to carry out basic functions like security and policing or core service delivery it is unlikely that a program that wants to foster a free-trade zone (special economic zones) or distribute vaccinations to vulnerable populations can accomplish their goals. This has been something overlooked by multiple international organizations, aid programs and even participating governments who attempt to carry out ‘best practices’ from other places in a carbon-copy manner with little success. This isomorphic mimicry –adopting organizational forms that have been successful elsewhere but that only hide institutional dysfunction without solving it on the home country –can contribute to getting countries stuck in ‘capability traps’ where the country does not advance in its development goals. An example of this can be seen through some of the criticisms of foreign aid and its success rate at helping countries develop.\n\nBeyond the incentive compatibility problems that can happen to foreign aid donations –that foreign aid granting countries continue to give it to countries with little results of economic growth but with corrupt leaders that are aligned with the granting countries’ geopolitical interests and agenda –there are problems of fiscal fragility associated to receiving an important amount of government revenues through foreign aid. Governments that can raise a significant amount of revenue from this source are less accountable to their citizens (they are more autonomous) as they have less pressure to legitimately use those resources. Just as it has been documented for countries with an abundant supply of natural resources such as oil, countries whose government budget consists largely of foreign aid donations and not regular taxes are less likely to have incentives to develop effective public institutions. This in turn can undermine the country's efforts to develop.\n\nIn its broadest sense, policies of economic development encompass three major areas:\n\nOne growing understanding in economic development is the promotion of regional clusters and a thriving metropolitan economy. In today’s global landscape, location is vitally important and becomes a key in competitive advantage.\n\nInternational trade and exchange rates are a key issue in economic development. Currencies are often either under-valued or over-valued, resulting in trade surpluses or deficits. Furthermore, the growth of globalization has linked economic development with trends on international trade and participation in global value chains (GVCs) and international financial markets. The last financial crisis had a huge effect on economies in developing countries. Economist Jayati Ghosh states that it is necessary to make financial markets in developing countries more resilient by providing a variety of financial institutions. This could also add to financial security for small-scale producers.\n\nEconomic development has evolved into a professional industry of highly specialized practitioners. The practitioners have two key roles: one is to provide leadership in policy-making, and the other is to administer policy, programs, and projects. Economic development practitioners generally work in public offices on the state, regional, or municipal level, or in public–private partnerships organizations that may be partially funded by local, regional, state, or federal tax money. These economic development organizations function as individual entities and in some cases as departments of local governments. Their role is to seek out new economic opportunities and retain their existing business wealth.\n\nThere are numerous other organizations whose primary function is not economic development that work in partnership with economic developers. They include the news media, foundations, utilities, schools, health care providers, faith-based organizations, and colleges, universities, and other education or research institutions.\n\nWith more than 20,000 professional economic developers employed worldwide in this highly specialized industry, the International Economic Development Council (IEDC) headquartered in Washington, D.C. is a non-profit organization dedicated to helping economic developers do their job more effectively and raising the profile of the profession. With over 4,500 members across the US and internationally, serving exclusively the economic development community, IEDC membership represents the entire range of the profession ranging from regional, state, local, rural, urban, and international economic development organizations, as well as chambers of commerce, technology development agencies, utility companies, educational institutions, consultants and redevelopment authorities. Many individual states also have associations comprising economic development professionals, who work closely with IEDC.\n\nThere are various types of macroeconomic and sociocultural indicators or \"metrics\" used by economists and geographers to assess the relative economic advancement of a given region or nation. The World Bank's \"World Development Indicators\" are compiled annually from officially recognized international sources and include national, regional and global estimates.\n\nGDP per capita is gross domestic product divided by mid year population. GDP is the sum of gross value added by all resident producers in the economy plus any product taxes and minus any subsidizes not included in the value of the products. It is calculated without making deductions for depreciation of fabricated assets or for depletion and degradation of natural resources.\n\nEuropean development economists have argued that the existence of modern transportation networks- such as high-speed rail infrastructure constitutes a significant indicator of a country’s economic advancement: this perspective is illustrated notably through the Basic Rail Transportation Infrastructure Index (known as BRTI Index) and related models such as the (Modified) Rail Transportation Infrastructure Index (RTI).\n\nOne unintended consequence of economic development is the intense competition between communities, states, and nations for new economic development projects in today's globalized world. With the struggle to attract and retain business, competition is further intensified by the use of many variations of economic incentives to the potential business such as: tax incentives, investment capital, donated land, utility rate discounts, and many others. IEDC places significant attention on the various activities undertaken by economic development organizations to help them compete and sustain vibrant communities.\n\nAdditionally, the use of community profiling tools and database templates to measure community assets versus other communities is also an important aspect of economic development. Job creation, economic output, and increase in taxable basis are the most common measurement tools. When considering measurement, too much emphasis has been placed on economic developers for \"not creating jobs\". However, the reality is that economic developers do not typically create jobs, but facilitate the process for existing businesses and start-ups to do so. Therefore, the economic developer must make sure that there are sufficient economic development programs in place to assist the businesses achieve their goals. Those types of programs are usually policy-created and can be local, regional, statewide and national in nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "55668685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55668685", "title": "Edward Snowden asylum in Russia", "text": "Edward Snowden asylum in Russia\n\nEdward Snowden asylum in Russia is part of the aftermath from the global surveillance disclosures made by Edward Snowden. On June 23, 2013, Snowden flew from Hong Kong to Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport. Noting that his U.S. passport had been cancelled, Russian authorities restricted him to the airport terminal. On August 1, after 39 days in the transit section, Snowden left the airport. He was granted temporary asylum in Russia for one year. On August 7, 2014, six days after Snowden's one-year temporary asylum expired, his Russian lawyer announced that Snowden had received a three-year residency permit. It allowed him to travel freely within Russia and to go abroad for up to three months. Snowden was not granted permanent political asylum, which would require a separate process.\n\nRussia first received information about Snowden when he was in Hong Kong China. At that time, they were told that a person who wanted to fight against human right violations wanted to seek asylum in Russia. In 2017, during \"The Putin Interviews\" with the Director Oliver Stone, the Russian president Vladimir Putin described how Russia got involved in the Snowden saga. During that time, Rusisia did not want to get involved as it already had a strained relationship with the United states which it did not wish to exacerbate. Thereafter they learnt that Snowden was on a plane bound for Moscow, to transfer to another plane bound for Latin America. Most of this information was received through informal channels including information leaded to the press. While he was int he plane, his destination countries grew reluctant to allow him in, and Snowden was thus stuck in the transit area of Moscow international airport. While in the airport, U.S.authorities asked Russia to extradite Snowden. However this was not possible as Russia had proposed a treaty on cooperation in legal matters, requiring mutual extradition of criminals, which U.S. had not agreed upon. Further, United States had never extradited any Russian criminal who had taken asylum in USA, hence Snowden's extradition would have been unprecedented. Snowden had not committed a crime as per Russian law.\n\nSnowden left the Moscow airport on August 1 after 39 days in the transit section. He was granted temporary asylum in Russia for one year, with extensions possible. According to his Russian lawyer, Snowden went to an undisclosed location for security reasons. The White House stated that it was \"extremely disappointed,\" and cancelled a previously scheduled meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Additionally, Republican U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham urged President Obama to boycott the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, but House Speaker John Boehner, also a Republican, rejected that idea as \"dead wrong.\"\n\nIn late July 2013, Lonnie Snowden said he believed his son would be better off staying in Russia, and didn't believe he would receive a fair trial in the U.S. In mid-October, he visited his son in Moscow, later telling the press that he was pleased with Edward's situation, and still believed Russia was the best choice for his asylum, saying he wouldn't have to worry about people \"rushing across the border to render him.\" Lonnie Snowden commented that his son was living comfortably in Russia and found Moscow \"modern and sophisticated.\" Edward Snowden's Russian lawyer, Anatoly Kucherena, announced on October 31 that his client had found a website maintenance job at one of Russia's largest websites, but declined to identify the site. Jesselyn Radack, one of Snowden's American lawyers, said she was unaware of any new job. Asked about this by \"The Moscow Times\" in June 2014, \"The Guardian\" correspondent Luke Harding replied, \"Kucherena is completely unreliable as a source. We [\"The Guardian\"] did the rounds of Russian IT companies when he made that claim last year and none of them—none of the big ones, at least—confirmed this.\"\n\nFormer CIA analyst Ray McGovern, who had traveled to Russia to give Snowden a whistleblower award, said that Snowden gave no storage devices such as hard drives or USB flash drives to Russia or China, and had carried four blank laptops with him to Hong Kong and Moscow as a diversion. U.S. officials said they assumed that any classified materials downloaded by Snowden had fallen into the hands of China and Russia, though they acknowledged they had no proof of this. In an October 2013 interview, Snowden maintained that he did not bring any classified material into Russia \"because it wouldn't serve the public interest.\" He added, \"There's a zero percent chance the Russians or Chinese have received any documents.\" In June 2015, however, \"The Sunday Times\" reported that British government officials anonymously claimed to the paper that Russia and China had cracked an encrypted cache of files taken by Snowden, forcing the withdrawal of British spies from live operations.<ref name=\"ST 14/06/15\"></ref> The BBC also stated that their sources told them British intelligence assets had been moved as a precaution after the Snowden leaks. Glenn Greenwald charged that the report contained fabrications and did nothing more than quote anonymous British officials; he said parts were removed from the original post without \"The Times\" saying it did so.\nWikiLeaks released video of Snowden on October 11 taken during the Sam Adams Award reception in Moscow, his first public appearance in three months. Former U.S. government officials attending the ceremony said they saw no evidence Snowden was under the control of Russian security services. The whistleblower group said he was in good spirits, looked well, and still believes he was right to release the NSA documents. In the video, Snowden said \"people all over the world are coming to realize\" that the NSA's surveillance programs put people in danger, hurt the U.S. and its economy, and \"limit our ability to speak and think and live and be creative, to have relationships and associate freely\" as well as putting people \"at risk of coming into conflict with our own government.\"\n\nOn October 31, German lawmaker Hans-Christian Ströbele traveled to Moscow to meet with Snowden, whom he invited to testify before the German parliament to assist investigations into NSA surveillance of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's phone since 2002. After the visit, Snowden indicated a willingness to testify, though not from Moscow as Germany requested. Snowden said he would rather give testimony before the U.S. Congress, his second choice being Berlin.\n\nAlso in October, Glenn Greenwald stated that the U.S. revoked Snowden's passport while he was in transit to Latin America and threatened other countries that might offer safe passage. WikiLeaks representative Sarah Harrison, who accompanied Snowden from Hong Kong to Moscow, left Russia in early November after waiting until she felt confident he had situated himself and was free from government interference.\n\nOn December 17, 2013, Snowden wrote an open letter to the people of Brazil offering to assist the Brazilian government in investigating allegations of U.S. spying, and added that he continued to seek, and would require, asylum. Snowden wrote, \"Until a country grants permanent political asylum, the U.S. government will continue to interfere with my ability to speak ... going so far as to force down the Presidential Plane of Evo Morales to prevent me from traveling to Latin America!\" Brazil had been in an uproar since Snowden revealed that the U.S. was spying on Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, her senior advisors, and Brazil's national oil company, Petrobras. Rousseff and officials of the Brazilian foreign ministry said in response that they could not consider asylum for Snowden because they had not received any formal request. A representative of the foreign ministry said that a fax requesting asylum had been sent to the Brazilian embassy in Moscow in July but it had not been signed and could not be authenticated. David Miranda, the Brazilian partner of Glenn Greenwald, launched an Internet petition urging the Brazilian president to consider offering Snowden asylum.\n\nSnowden met with Barton Gellman of \"The Washington Post\" six months after the disclosure for an exclusive interview spanning 14 hours, his first since being granted temporary asylum. Snowden talked about his life in Russia as \"an indoor cat,\" reflected on his time as an NSA contractor, and discussed at length the revelations of global surveillance and their reverberations. Snowden said, \"In terms of personal satisfaction, the mission's already accomplished ... I already won. As soon as the journalists were able to work, everything that I had been trying to do was validated.\" He commented \"I am not trying to bring down the NSA, I am working to improve the NSA ... I am still working for the NSA right now. They are the only ones who don't realize it.\" On the accusation from former CIA and NSA director Michael Hayden that he had defected, Snowden stated, \"If I defected at all, I defected from the government to the public.\" In 2014, Snowden said that he lives \"a surprisingly open life\" in Russia and that he is recognized when he goes to computer stores.\n\nAccording to BuzzFeed, in January 2014 an anonymous Pentagon official said he wanted to kill Snowden. \"I would love to put a bullet in his head,\" said the official, calling Snowden \"single-handedly the greatest traitor in American history.\" Members of the intelligence community also expressed their violent hostility. \"In a world where I would not be restricted from killing an American,\" said an NSA analyst, \"I personally would go and kill him myself.\" A State Department spokesperson condemned the threats.\n\nOn \"Meet the Press\" in late January 2014, speculation arose from top U.S. officials in the House and Senate Intelligence Committees that Snowden might have been assisted by Russian intelligence, prompting a rare interview during which Snowden spoke in his defense. He told \"The New Yorker\" \"this 'Russian spy' push is absurd,\" adding that he \"clearly and unambiguously acted alone, with no assistance from anyone, much less a government.\"<ref name=\"Mayer/New Yorker\"></ref> Investigations by the NSA and the FBI found no evidence that Snowden received any aid. Days later, U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein stated that she had seen no evidence that Snowden is a Russian spy. Germany's \"Der Spiegel\" suggested the accusations were part of a smear campaign by U.S. officials. The accusations did not faze Snowden, who said \"outlets report statements that the speakers themselves admit are sheer speculation.\"\n\nIn late January 2014, U.S. attorney general Eric Holder, in an interview with MSNBC, indicated that the U.S. could allow Snowden to return from Russia under negotiated terms, saying he was prepared to engage in conversation with him, but that full clemency would be going too far.\n\nSnowden's first television interview aired January 26, 2014, on Germany's NDR. In April 2014, he appeared on video from an undisclosed location during President Putin's live annual Q&A exchange with the public. Snowden asked whether Russia intercepted, stored or analyzed individuals' communications. Putin replied, \"Russia uses surveillance techniques for spying on individuals only with the sanction of a court order. This is our law, and therefore there is no mass surveillance in our country.\" Benjamin Wittes in \"The New Republic\" described the exchange as \"a highly-scripted propaganda stunt for Vladimir Putin\". Snowden insisted his question was designed to hold the Russian president accountable. In an op-ed for \"The Guardian\", Snowden said his question was intended \"to mirror the now infamous exchange in US Senate intelligence committee hearings between senator Ron Wyden and the director of national intelligence, James Clapper, about whether the NSA collected records on millions of Americans, and to invite either an important concession or a clear evasion.\" Snowden called Putin's response \"evasive\". A few days later, \"The Daily Beast\" reported that Snowden himself \"instantly regretted\" asking Putin the \"softball question\", which was crafted with several of his key advisers, and that he was mortified by the reaction. ACLU attorney Ben Wizner, one of Snowden's closest advisers, told the \"Beast\" that Snowden hadn't realized how much his appearance with Putin would be seen as a Kremlin propaganda victory. \"I know this is hard to believe,\" Wizner acknowledged. \"I know if I was just watching from afar, I'd think, 'Wow, they forced him to do this.' But it's not true. He just fucking did it.\" Asked six months later about the incident, Snowden conceded, \"Yeah, that was terrible! Oh, Jesus, that blew up in my face. ... And in the United States, what I did appearing at that Putin press conference was not worth the price.\"\n\nIn March 2014, the international advocacy group European Digital Rights (EDRi) said that the European Parliament, in adopting a Data Protection Reform Package, rejected amendments that would have dropped charges against Snowden and granted him asylum or refugee status.\n\nIn May 2014, NBC's Brian Williams presented the first interview for American television. In June, \"The Washington Post\" reported that during his first year of Russian asylum, Snowden had received \"tens of thousands of dollars in cash awards and appearance fees from privacy organizations and other groups,\" fielded inquiries about book and movie projects, and was considering taking a position with a South African foundation that would support work on security and privacy issues. \"Any moment that he decides that he wants to be a wealthy person,\" said Snowden's attorney Ben Wizner, \"that route is available to him,\" although the U.S. government could attempt to seize such proceeds.\n\nAlso in May, the German Parliamentary Committee investigating the NSA spying scandal unanimously decided to invite Snowden to testify as a witness. In September, opposition parties in the German parliament filed constitutional complaints to force the government to let Snowden testify in Berlin. Snowden had refused a proposed video conference from Moscow, saying he wants to testify only in Berlin and asking for safe conduct.\n\nOn July 13, 2014, \"The Guardian\" published its first story based on an exclusive, seven-hour interview newly conducted with Snowden in a Moscow city centre hotel. Snowden condemned the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Bill announced to the UK's House of Commons on July 10 bolstering the state's right to keep personal data held by Internet and phone companies. Snowden said it was very unusual for a public body to pass such emergency legislation except during total war. \"I mean we don't have bombs falling. We don't have U-boats in the harbor. It defies belief.\" The \"Daily Mail\" reported that Snowden had \"caused fury\" by attacking Britain. \"His critics said the new surveillance Bill was being pushed through Parliament today largely because of his treachery in leaking Britain's spy secrets.\" On July 13 and 17, \"The Guardian\" posted video clips, of about 2 minutes and 14 minutes in length, excerpted from the full interview. On July 18, \"The Guardian\" published a nearly 10,000-word edited transcript of their Snowden interview. A year after arriving in Moscow, Snowden said he is still learning Russian. He keeps late and solitary hours, effectively living on U.S. time. He does not drink, cooks for himself but doesn't eat much. \"I don't live in absolute secrecy,\" he says. \"I live a pretty open life—but at the same time I don't want to be a celebrity.\" He does not work for a Russian organization, yet is financially secure thanks to substantial savings from his years as a well-paid contractor and more recently numerous awards and speaking fees from around the world.\n\nOn August 7, 2014, six days after Snowden's one-year temporary asylum expired, his Russian lawyer, Anatoly Kucherena, announced that Snowden had received a three-year residency permit. It allowed him to travel freely within Russia and to go abroad for up to three months. Kucherena explained that Snowden had not been granted permanent political asylum, which required a separate process.\n\nIn May 2015, Snowden's lawyer Ben Wizner said that Snowden's main source of income was speaking fees, which sometimes exceeded $10,000 per appearance. In November 2015, Snowden said that he does not intend to play any role in Russian politics and wants to devote his focus to U.S. issues. During a panel event, he said, \"people say I live in Russia, but that's actually a little bit of a misunderstanding. I live on the Internet.\"\n\nIn the waning days of the Obama administration, former CIA Director Michael Morell suggested that Russia should extradite Snowden to the United States as a \"gift\" to Donald Trump. The comment drew harsh criticism by the Russian Foreign Ministry, which noted that Snowden had been granted an extension of his stay until 2020, and said what Morell proposed would be a betrayal.\n\nA senior U.S. official said in February 2017 that Russia was considering extraditing Snowden in order to \"curry favor\" with President Donald Trump. Snowden cited the comment as evidence that he was not a Russian spy.\n"}
{"id": "1730727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1730727", "title": "Ewe people", "text": "Ewe people\n\nThe Ewe people (, lit. \"Ewe people\"; or \"Mono Kple Volta Tɔ́sisiwo Dome\", lit. \"Ewe nation\",\"Eʋenyigba\" Eweland;) are an African ethnic group. The largest population of Ewe people is in Ghana with (3.3m) people, and the second largest population in Togo with (2m) people. They speak the Ewe language () which belongs to the Niger-Congo Gbe family of languages. They are related to other speakers of Gbe languages such as the Fon, Gen, Phla Phera, and the Aja people of Togo and Benin.\n\nEwe people are located primarily in the coastal regions of West Africa, in the region south and east of the Volta River to around the Mono River at Togo and Benin border. They are particularly found in Volta Region in southeastern Ghana (formerly British Togoland), southern Togo (formerly French Togoland), and in southwestern parts of Benin. The Ewe region is sometimes referred to as the Ewe nation or \"Eʋedukɔ́\" region (Togoland in colonial literature).\n\nThey consist of four groups based on their dialect and geographic concentration: the Anlo Ewe, the Mina, Anechɔ, Ʋedome(Danyi), Tongu or Tɔŋu. The literary language has been the Anlo sub-branch.\n\nThe ancient history of the Ewe people is not recorded. But people believe that the Ewe migrated from a place called Kotu or Amedzowe, east of the Niger River, or that they are from the region that is now the border between Benin and Nigeria and then because of invasions and wars in the 17th century migrated into their current location. Archaeological evidence suggests that the Ewe people likely had some presence in their current homelands at least earlier than the 13th century. This evidence dates their dynamism to a much earlier period than previously believed. However, other evidence also suggests a period of turmoil, particularly when Yoruba warriors of Oyo Empire ruled the region. Their own oral tradition describes the brutal king Agɔ Akɔli or (Agor Akorli) of Notsie ruled from Kpalimé in 17th century.\n\nThey share a history with people who speak Gbe languages. These speakers occupied the area between Akanland and Yorubaland. Previously some historians have tried to tie them to both Akan and Yoruba ethnic groups, but more recent studies suggest these are distinct ethnic groups that are neither Akan or Yoruba, although they appear to have both influenced and taken influence from the two ethnic groups.\n\nThe Ewe people had cordial relations with colonial-era European traders. However, in 1784, they warred with Danish colonial interests as Denmark attempted to establish coastal forts in Ewe regions for its officials and merchants. The Ewes were both victims of slave raiding and trade, as well slave sellers to European slave merchants and ships. Politically structured as chiefdoms, the Ewe people were frequently at war with each other, raided other clans within the Ewe people as well as in Ashantiland, and they sold the captives as slaves.\n\nAfter slavery was abolished and slave trade brought to a halt, the major economic activity of the Ewe people shifted to palm oil and copra exports. Their region was divided between the colonial powers, initially between the German and British colonies, and after World War I their territories were divided between the British and a British-French joint protectorate. After World War I, the British Togoland and French Togoland were respectively renamed Volta Region and Togo. The French Togoland was renamed Republic of Togo and gained independence from France on April 27, 1960.\nThe sophisticated theology of the Ewe people is similar to those of nearby ethnic groups, such as the Fon religion. This traditional Ewe religion is called Voodoo. The word is borrowed from the Fon language, and means \"spirit\". The Ewe religion holds Mawu as the creator god, who created numerous lesser deities (\"trɔwo\") that serve as the spiritual vehicles and the powers that influence a person's destiny. This mirrors the Mawu and Lisa (Goddess and God) theology of the Fon religion, and like them, these are remote from daily affairs of the Ewe people. The lesser deities are believed to have means to grant favors or inflict harm.\n\nThe Ewe have the concept of \"Si\", which implies a \"spiritual marriage\" between the deity and the faithful. It is typically referred to as a suffix to a deity. Thus a \"Fofie-si\" refers to a faithful who has pledged to deity Fofie, just like a spouse would during a marriage. Ancestral spirits are important part of the Ewe traditional religion, and shared by a clan.\n\nIslam arrived in Ewe region in the 17th century, and remained concentrated in its north among the wealthy nobles and trans-Saharan traders. Islam has remained a minority religion among the Ewe people, with continued strong presence in the north, and some regions such as Lomé in south of a significant presence.\nChristianity arrived among the Ewe people with the colonial merchants and missionaries. Major missions were established after 1840, by European colonies. German Lutheran missionaries arrived in 1847. Their ideas were accepted in the coastal areas, and Germans named their region Togoland, or Togo meaning 'beyond the sea' in Ewe language. Germans lost their influence in World War I, their Christian missions were forced to leave the Togoland, and thereafter the French and British missionaries became more prominent among the Ewe people.\n\nAbout 50% of the Ewe population, particularly belonging to the coastal urban area, has converted to Christianity. However, they continue to practice the traditional rites and rituals of their ancestral religion.\n\nThe Ewe people are a patrilineal people who live in villages that contain lineages. Each lineage is headed by the male elder. The male ancestors have Ewe are revered, and traditionally, families can trace male ancestors. The land owned by an Ewe family is considered an ancestral gift, and they do not sell this gift.\n\nEwe people are notable for their fierce independence and have lacked group identity, and they have never supported a concentration of power within a village or through a large state. Village decisions have been made by a collection of elders, and they have refused to politically support strong kings, after their experience with the 17th century powerful despot named Agokoli of Notse. This has led to a lack of state, and their inability to respond to jihads and wars that followed in and after 18th century. In regional matters, the chief traditional priest has been the primary power. In contemporary times, the Ewes have attempted to connect and build a common culture and language-driven identity across the three countries where they are commonly found.\n\nWhile patrilineal, the Ewe women are traditionally the major merchants and traders, both at wholesale and retail level. Most shops and transactions are solely managed by women, and this include groceries to textiles.\n\nAnother notable aspect of Ewe culture, state ethnologists such as Rosenthal and Venkatachalam, is their refusal to blame others, their \"deep distress and voluntary acceptance of guilt\" for their ancestor's role in the slave trade. They have gone to extraordinary lengths to commemorate former slaves midst them, and making the ancestors of the slaves to be revered deities as well.\n\nThe Ewe have developed a complex culture of music, closely integrated with their traditional religion. This includes drumming. Ewe believe that if someone is a good drummer, it is because they inherited a spirit of an ancestor who was a good drummer.\n\nEwe music has many genres. One is Agbekor, which relates to songs and music around war. These cover the range of human emotions associated with the consequence of war, from courage and solidarity inspired by their ancestors, to the invincible success that awaits Ewe warriors, to death and grief of loss.\n\nCross-rhythm drumming is a part of Ewe musical culture. In general, Ewe drums are constructed like barrels with wooden staves and metal rings, or carved from a single log. They are played with sticks and hands, and often fulfill roles that are traditional to the family. The 'child' or 'baby brother' drum, kagan, usually plays on the off beats in a repeated pattern that links directly with the bell and shaker ostinatos. The 'mother' drum, kidi, usually has a more active role in the accompaniment. It responds to the larger sogo or 'father' drum. The entire ensemble is led by the atsimevu or 'grandfather' drum, largest of the group.\n\nLyrical songs are more prevalent in the southern region. In the north, flutes and drums generally take the place of the singer's voice.\n\nThe Ewe have an intricate collection of dances, which vary between geographical regions and other factors. One such dance is the Adevu (Ade - hunting, Vu - dance). This is a professional dance that celebrates the hunter. They are meant both to make animals easier to hunt and to give animals a ritual 'funeral' in order to prevent the animal's spirit from returning and harming the hunter.\n\nAnother dance, the Agbadza, is traditionally a war dance but is now used in social and recreational situations to celebrate peace. War dances are sometimes used as military training exercises, with signals from the lead drum ordering the warriors to move ahead, to the right, go down, etc. These dances also helped in preparing the warriors for battle and upon their return from fighting they would act out their deeds in battle through their movements in the dance.\n\nThe Atsiagbekor is a contemporary version of the Ewe war dance Atamga (Great (ga) Oath (atama) in reference to the oaths taken by people before proceeding into battle. The movements of this present-day version are mostly in platoon formation and are not only used to display battle tactics, but also to energize and invigorate the soldiers. Today, Atsiagbekor is performed for entertainment at social gatherings and at cultural presentations.\n\nThe Atsia dance, which is performed mostly by women, is a series of stylistic movements dictated to dancers by the lead drummer. Each dance movement has its own prescribed rhythmic pattern, which is synchronized with the lead drum. 'Atsia' in the Ewe language means style or display.\n\nThe Bobobo (originally 'Akpese') is said to have been developed by Francis Kojo Nuatro. He is thought to have been an ex-police officer who organized a group in the middle to late 1940s. The dance has its roots from Wusuta and in the 'Highlife' popular music across West African countries. Bobobo gained national recognition in the 1950s and 1960s because of its use at political rallies and the novelty of its dance formations and movements. It is generally performed at funerals and other social occasions. This is a social dance with a great deal of room for free expression. In general, the men sing and dance in the center while the women dance in a ring around them. There are 'slow' and 'fast' versions of Bobobo. The slow one is called Akpese and the fast one is termed to be Bobobo.\n\n\"Agahu\" is both the name of a dance and of one of the many secular music associations (clubs) of the Ewe people of Togo, Dahomey, and in the south-eastern part of the Volta Region. Each club (Gadzok, Takada, and Atsiagbeko are other such clubs) has its own distinctive drumming and dancing, as well as its own repertoire of songs. A popular social dance of West Africa, Agahu was created by the Egun speaking people from the town of Ketonu in what is now Benin. From there it spread to the Badagry area of Nigeria where migrant Ewe fisherman heard, adapted. In dancing the Agahu, two circles are formed; the men stay stationary with their arms out and then bend with a knee forward for the women to sit on. They progress around the circle until they arrive at their original partner.\n\nGbedzimido is a war dance mostly performed by the people of Mafi-Gborkofe and Amegakope in the Central Tongu district of Ghana's Volta Region. Gbedzimido has been transformed into a contemporary dance and is usually seen only on very important occasions like the Asafotu festival, celebrated annually by the Tongu people around December. The dance is also performed at the funerals of highly placed people in society, mostly men. Mafi-Gborkofe is a small farming village near Mafi-Kumase.\n\n\"Gota\" uses the mystical calabash drum of Benin, West Africa. The calabash was originally called the \"drum of the dead\" and was played only at funerals. It is now performed for social entertainment. The most exciting parts of Gota are the synchronized stops of the drummers and dancers.\n\n\"Tro-u\" is ancestral drum music that is played to invite ancestors to special sacred occasions at a shrine. For religious purposes, a priest or priestess would be present. There are fast and slow rhythms that can be called by the religious leader in order to facilitate communication with the spirit world. The bell rhythm is played on a boat-shaped bell in the north, but the southern region uses a double bell. The three drums must have distinct pitch levels in order to lock in.\n\n\"Sowu\" is one of the seven different styles of drumming that belong to the cult of Yewe, adapted for stage. Yewe is the God of Thunder and lightning among the Ewe speaking people of Togo, Benin, and in south-eastern parts of the Volta Region. Yewe is a very exclusive cult and its music is one of the most developed forms of sacred music in Eweland.\n\nEwe, also written Evhe, or Eʋe, is a major dialect cluster of Gbe or Tadoid (Capo 1991, Duthie 1996) spoken in the southern parts of the Volta Region, in Ghana and across southern Togo, to the Togo-Benin border by about three million people. Ewe belongs to the Gbe family of Niger-Congo. Gbe languages are spoken in an area that extends predominantly from Togo, Benin and as far as Western Nigeria to Lower Weme.\n\nEwe dialects vary. Groups of villages that are two or three kilometres apart use distinct varieties. Nevertheless, across the Ewe-speaking area, the dialects may be broadly grouped geographically into coastal or southern dialects, e.g., Aŋlɔ, Tɔŋú Avenor, Watsyi and inland dialects characterised indigenously as Ewedomegbe, e.g., Lomé, Danyi, and Kpele etc. (Agbodeka 1997, Gavua 2000, Ansre 2000). Speakers from different localities understand each other and can identify the peculiarities of the different areas. Additionally, there is a written standard that was developed in the nineteenth century based on the regional variants of the various sub-dialects with a high degree of coastal content. With it, a standard colloquial variety has also emerged (spoken usually with a local accent), and is used very widely in cross-dialectal contact sites such as schools, markets, and churches.\n\nThe storytellers use a dialect of Aŋlɔ spoken in Seva. Their language is the spoken form and hence does not necessarily conform to the expectations of someone familiar with the standard dialect. For instance, they use the form yi to introduce relative clauses instead of the standard written si, and yia 'this' instead of the standard written sia. They sometimes also use subject markers on the verb agreeing with the lexical NP subject while this is not written in the standard. A distinctive feature of the Aŋlɔ dialect is that the sounds made in the area of the teeth ridge are palatalised when followed by a high vowel. For instance, the verb tsi 'become old' is pronounced [tsyi] by the storyteller Kwakuga Goka.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33981097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33981097", "title": "Fernando Traverso's Bicis", "text": "Fernando Traverso's Bicis\n\nOn March 24, 2001, Fernando Traverso, an Argentinian hospital worker, political activist, and artist, began spray painting a series of twenty-nine life-sized bicycle stencils throughout the streets of his home town Rosario as a symbolic memorial to his twenty-nine friends who were abducted, tortured and killed during Argentina's Dirty War. Today, there are 350 bici stenciled images painted on buildings throughout Rosario, memorializing each of its 350 citizens who were disappeared under Argentina's military dictatorship and National Reorganization Process (1976–1983).\n\nFor most members of the resistance, bicycles were the primary mode of transport. As Traverso's friends began disappearing after the 1976 coup d'etat of Isabel Martínez de Perón and the ensuing Jorge Rafael Videla Redondo \"de facto\" presidency, only their bicycles would be left behind. Seeing an abandoned bicycle was often the first sign that its owner had been disappeared. These bicycles left standing in the streets of Rosario stood as memorials to those who were taken. Traverso made these memorials more permanent by spray painting the \"bici\" image on buildings throughout the city. Now, it has spread worldwide and Traverso works with many human rights organizations as well as impacted communities to raise awareness for those who are still disappearing today.\n\nIn the years following the Dirty War, Argentinians have dealt with the atrocities of the past in a myriad of ways. From the 1984 state-sponsored Nunca Más (Never Again) truth commission to commemoration museums, memories of Argentina's brutal dictatorial past have far from disappeared; rather the opposite, they have come to dominate various arenas of Argentine culture, most notably, Argentine memory art As exemplified through the successes of Traverso's \"bici\" graffiti art campaign, memory art has become an important symbolic means of negotiating the past, not only by the artist and the effected community, but the international population as well.\n\nAlongside Traverso's graffiti art, Rosario is also home to Argentina's first official Museum of Memory which offers a nuanced narration of the nations dictatorial past. Under the direction of Ruben Chababo, the Museum of Memory opened firstly in 2004, and then in a more permanent location in 2010. Since its original opening, issues of interpretation have been paramount in its organization. As a means to avoid the implied \"before\" and \"after\" connotations of a chronological portrayal, the Museum is organized by a series of aesthetics themes ranging from clandestine imprisonments to struggles in truth and justice. However, Chababo has remarked that Rosario's true memory art cannot be found in any institution, but rather in its streets.\n\nFernando Traverso's \"Bici\" image could originally only be found in the streets of Rosario, but has since become an international symbol remembering those who were disappeared under the various military dictatorships in Latin America, specifically during the 1970s. Traverso's memorial has transformed Rosario's urban space into a place of memory and is only one of many political memorials in Argentina and in Latin America [See External Links].\n\nTraverso visited the US-Mexico border from May 25 through June 1, 2009 to attend the inaugural event for the exhibition of The Disappeared. During his visit he met with and held workshops for students from the Universidad Autonoma de Ciudad Juarez (UACJ) in Juarez, Mexico and the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP). Traverso, along with Rubin Center Assistant Director Kerry Doyle and UACJ Visual Arts Professor Leon de la Rosa, came up with Bicycles on the Border, an action using Traverso's \"bici\" image to respond to the current border realities. He held two daylong workshops at both universities, during which groups of students and community members printed images of bikes on large fabric banners. Those who participated in the action were encouraged to take the banners and take pictures of them in places along the border that evoke the ideas of disappearance, loss, or injustice that have come to be associated with the \"bici\" image.\nThese photographs became his next project, El Nieto de Herminia (Herminia's Grandson). The image of the \"bici\" came to represent those who were disappeared. Family photos were taken with the \"bici\" in place of the missing relative. The original memorial started off small but \"his art has spiraled outward, enmeshing more and more participants.\"\n\nHis most recent project involves numbering real bicycles. He is encouraging cyclists to rescue abandoned bikes that have waited for years to be picked up by their owners. Just as the younger Argentine generations are becoming active – and demanding recognition for those who were disappeared – so are Traverso's \"bicis\". The \"bici\" images and everything this memorial has grown to incorporate serve as a continuous reminder of those who were disappeared. In Traverso's word's, \"forgetting becomes the repressor's ultimate triumph.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "695824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=695824", "title": "George Raft", "text": "George Raft\n\nGeorge Raft (born George Ranft; September 26, 1901 – November 24, 1980) was an American film actor and dancer identified with portrayals of gangsters in crime melodramas of the 1930s and 1940s. A stylish leading man in dozens of movies, today Raft is mostly known for his gangster roles in the original \"Scarface\" (1932), \"Each Dawn I Die\" (1939), and Billy Wilder's 1959 comedy \"Some Like It Hot\", as a dancer in \"Bolero\" (1934), and a truck driver in \"They Drive by Night\" (1940).\n\nRaft said he never regarded himself as an actor. \"I wanted to be me\", he said.\n\nGeorge Raft was born in Hell's Kitchen, New York City, to a Catholic family of German descent, the son of Eva (\"née\" Glockner), a German immigrant, and Conrad Ranft, who was born in Massachusetts to German immigrant parents. His parents were married on November 17, 1895, in Manhattan. George's elder sister, Eva, known as \"Katie\", was born on April 18, 1896.\n\nSome obituaries cited Raft's year of birth as 1895, which the actor stated was correct on television in 1980 on \"The Mike Douglas Show\", which is readily available on YouTube as of this writing. He stated that he was born on September 26, 1895, whereupon Douglas stated that Raft would turn 85 the upcoming September; he is supposedly recorded in the New York City Birth Index as having been born on September 26, 1901, in Manhattan as \"George Rauft\" (although \"Rauft\" is likely a mistranscription of \"Ranft\"); the 1900 census for New York City lists his elder sister, Katie, as his parents' only child, with two children born and only one living. On the 1910 census, he is listed as being eight years old. A boyhood friend of gangsters Owney Madden and Bugsy Siegel, and later a \"wheel man\" for the mob, Raft acknowledged having narrowly avoided a life of crime.\n\nRaft grew up on 41st Street and worked as an errand boy and a fishwrapper after school. His parents sent him to live at his grandparents' house on 164th Street. He left school at the age of 12, and left home aged 13. He worked as an apprentice electrician for a year, then boxed professionally for two years. As \"Dutch Rauft\", he had 14 bouts: nine victories, three defeats and two draws. In 1911, he was a minor league baseball player for Springfield of the Eastern League, as a utility outfielder with pitching aspirations. However, his batting was poor and he was dropped. \"I was just trying to find something that I liked that would make me a living\", said Raft later. \"I saw guys fighting, so I fought. I saw guys playing ball, so I played ball. Then I saw guys dancing... and getting paid for it!\"\n\nRaft had been taught how to dance by his mother and had danced at outdoor amusement parks and carnivals with his parents. Following his baseball career, he began working as a taxi dancer in the poorer sections of New York. At first he struggled financially, but then he won a Charleston competition and was launched professionally.\n\nHe started doing exhibition dances in the afternoon at Healy's, Murray's, Rectors and Churchills in New York. He then started working in New York City nightclubs, often in the same venues as Rudolph Valentino before Valentino became a movie actor.\n\nRaft toured with his dancing and helped popularise the tango in Paris, Vienna, Rome, London and New York. He had a great success as a dancer in London in 1926, and the Duke of Windsor was \"an ardent fan and supporter.\" Fred Astaire, in his autobiography \"Steps in Time\" (1959), says Raft was a lightning-fast dancer and did \"the fastest Charleston I ever saw.\"\n\nRaft became part of the stage act of flamboyant speakeasy and night club hostess Texas Guinan at the 300 Club (also producing some of her shows). His success led him to Broadway, where he again worked as a dancer. His stage performances included \"The City Chap\" (1925) (with music by Jerome Kern), \"Gay Paree\", \"Madhattan\", \"Palm Beach Nights\" (also known as \"No Foolin\"') and \"Padlocks of 1927\" (1927). He later made a semiautobiographical film called \"Broadway\" (1942) about this period, in which he plays himself.\n\nHe also worked on the Paramount Publix circuit, performing in stage shows that were presented before movies.\n\nOwney Madden told him he ought to be in movies, and Raft decided to try it after being threatened by the husband of a woman he had been seeing. In 1927, Raft relocated to Hollywood. It took him a while to establish himself, and he danced in clubs to pay the bills.\n\nIn October 1928, he appeared in a stage show presented by Texas Guinan. The \"Los Angeles Times\" said Raft \"scores a tremendous individual hit.\"\n\nHis screen debut was in \"Queen of the Night Clubs\" (1929), starring Guinan, who insisted Raft have a small role. The film is lost now, but it was reported that Raft's scenes were cut. However, he appeared in stage shows supporting the film. One reviewer called him \"a clever dancer\".\n\nRaft followed this with small roles in \"Gold Diggers of Broadway\" (1929) and \"Side Street\" (1929), dancing with some chorus girls. He was spotted by director Rowland Brown, who used him to good effect, including a solo dance sequence in a small gangster role as Spencer Tracy's character's sidekick in \"Quick Millions\" (1931). This was followed by \"Goldie\" (1931), \"Hush Money\" (1931) and the Eddie Cantor musical \"Palmy Days\" (1931).\n\nIn \"Taxi!\" (1932), starring James Cagney and Loretta Young, Raft has a colorful unbilled dancing role as Cagney's competitor in a dance contest, who wins only to be knocked down by Cagney. He was third-billed as a gangster in \"Dancers in the Dark\" (1932), below Miriam Hopkins as a dancer and Jack Oakie as a bandleader.\n\nRaft's big break came when cast as the second lead, alongside Paul Muni as Tony Camonte, in \"Scarface\" (1932), directed by Howard Hawks. He plays second-in-command Guino Rinaldo, who falls in love with Camonte's sister and is murdered by him. Raft's performance was notable for his character frequently flipping a coin (a nickel) during scenes, which became an iconic trope in gangster films. (Many people later claimed credit for this idea, including Raft and Hawks.) The film was shot in September 1931, but not released by United Artists until the following year. It was a landmark hit, and Raft garnered a lot of attention; audience adulation made a star of him.\n\n\"That was the big one\", he said. \"People remembered me. I was getting real fan mail – by the bushel basket – and even a dumb kid from 10th Avenue could figure out how to translate that into money.\"\n\nAfter filming \"Scarface\", not yet a star, he made \"Night World\" (1932), at Universal, supporting Lew Ayres, playing a gambler; and \"Love Is a Racket\" (1932), directed by William Wellman (though all Raft's scenes were deleted).\n\nRaft signed a contract with Paramount in February 1932. They put him in a supporting role for \"Madame Racketeer\" (1932) and he was announced for \"Ladies of the Big House\" with Sylvia Sidney and Gene Raymond.\n\nWhen \"Scarface\" was released, public response was so strong that Raft was given the lead in a film based on a story by Louis Bromfeld, originally called \"Number 55\" then changed to \"Night After Night\" (1932). When the studio adamantly refused to hire Texas Guinan—upon whom one of the movie's characters was based—because of her age, Raft advocated for another friend, Mae West, to be cast in a supporting role in his first film as leading man. Almost half a century later, Raft and West would die within two days of each other and their corpses would be momentarily placed together on stretchers in a hallway of the same morgue.\n\nHe was one of several Paramount stars who appeared in the episodic comedy/drama \"If I Had a Million\" (1932), playing a forger hiding from police, suddenly given a million dollars with no place to cash the check. Actors who also played the lead in other sections of the picture included Gary Cooper, W.C. Fields and Charles Laughton, so Raft was in extremely prestigious company. He starred in \"Under-Cover Man\" (1932) and was announced for \"Bodyguard\", which was never made.\n\nRaft refused to appear in \"The Story of Temple Drake\" (1933) with Miriam Hopkins, as he did not want to play a sadist. He was replaced by Jack La Rue, who had been the original casting for Raft's role in \"Scarface\". Raft was put on suspension in February.\n\n\"It's not that I mind being the guy on the wrong side of the law\", he said. \"But I won't take a role that's pure heel. The character has to have some ray of warmth, some redeeming quality – or it just isn't real.\"\n\nThe film performed poorly at the box office and was seen to have hurt La Rue's career. Raft was taken off suspension in April 1933. He returned to Hollywood to make \"Midnight Club\" (1933), set in London.\n\nRaft was borrowed by Twentieth Century Pictures, a new production company established by Darryl F. Zanuck (former head of production at Warners). He was to appear in their first film, Raoul Walsh's energetic period piece \"The Bowery\", as Steve Brodie, supposedly the first man to jump off the Brooklyn Bridge and survive, with Wallace Beery, Jackie Cooper, Fay Wray, and Pert Kelton. Raft memorably dances into the picture in his opening scene wearing a derby. The film was highly popular.\n\nBack at Paramount Raft supported Fredric March and Miriam Hopkins in \"All of Me\" (1934), which was not popular. Zanuck wanted him for \"Blood Money\" but he was too busy at Paramount.\n\nHe was meant to be in \"It’s a Pleasure to Lose\", based on the life of Nick the Greek, but instead made \"Bolero\" (1934), where Raft played a dancer opposite Carole Lombard. Raft refused to do the film until it was rewritten; the studio suspended him for a time but he eventually did it and the resulting movie was a big hit. The \"New York Times\" said \"Raft is a vivid and pictorially interesting type, rather than an actor in the technical sense, and consequently he proves unequal to the full implications of the fame-hungry dancer. The exterior attractiveness which Mr. Raft brings to the rôle gives ‘Bolero’ considerable color, nevertheless.\"\n\nIn March 1934 Raft was suspended a second time for refusing the male lead in Mae West's \"It Ain't No Sin\" (later \"Belle of the Nineties\".) because his part was subordinate to West's. In May Raft signed a new contract with Paramount, to reflect his star status.\n\nRaft went into \"The Trumpet Blows\" (1934), playing a matador (an attempt to invoke Valentino's \"Blood and Sand\"); for a time he was promoted as a \"second Valentino\". Raft walked out on the film unhappy with his role, but later came back after some rewrites were done. The film was a box office disappointment.\n\nRaft followed it with \"Limehouse Blues\" (1934; with Anna May Wong). In February 1934 Raft admitted to having been involved in three fights during his career as a dancer and actor, including one where he hit the producer of \"Bolero\". August 1934 Raft was involved in a brawl at the Hollywood Brown Derby.\n\nAt the end of 1934 Raft was listed in a survey of theatre managers as among Paramount's secondary tier of stars “if properly cast”. Mae West and Bing Crosby were on top; others on Raft's level included The Marx Brothers, Carole Lombard, Marlene Dietrich, Claudette Colbert, Gary Cooper, and W. C. Fields.\n\nHe made \"Rumba\" (1935), a reunion with Lombard; and \"Stolen Harmony\" (1935). He was meant to make \"Gambler's Maxim\" from a story by James Edward Grant but the film was not made.\n\nHe starred in a brutal and fast-paced adaptation of Dashiell Hammett's \"The Glass Key\" (1935; remade in 1942 with Alan Ladd). He tried a comedy \"Every Night at Eight\" (1935) and was borrowed by Columbia Pictures to appear in \"She Couldn't Take It\" (1935), a comedy in the vein of \"It Happened One Night\" (1934). Raft then was borrowed by 20th Century Fox for \"It Had to Happen\" (1936). Back at Paramount he was in \"Yours for the Asking\" (1936).\n\nRaft was meant to team with Lombard for a third time in \"The Princess Comes Across\" (1936) but refused to make it as he was unhappy with the choice of cameraman. He was replaced by Fred MacMurray and was suspended again in February 1936.\n\nRaft was meant to make \"You and Me\", the directorial debut of Norman Krasna, but refused to work for a first-time director. Raft was put on suspension in November 1936 and $24,000 of his salary was withheld.\n\nRaft was offered a part opposite the studio's biggest male star, Gary Cooper, in \"Souls at Sea\" (1937) directed by Henry Hathaway. Raft originally turned it down as his character was a coward and he left Paramount and his $4000 a week contract in November 1936. Sam Goldwyn wanted Raft for the film version of \"Dead End\" and Universal, David O. Selznick and 20th Century Fox were keen on using Raft; Lloyd Nolan was announced as Raft's replacement in \"Souls at Sea\". However Raft agreed to return to Paramount and the film when his part was rewritten to be more sympathetic.\n\n\"Souls at Sea\" was a big hit. In 1937 Raft was the third highest paid star in Hollywood, behind Cooper and Warner Baxter, earning $202,666. In May 1937 Raft reportedly tested for the role of Rhett Butler in the film of \"Gone with the Wind\".\n\nParamount announced him for \"Millions for Defence\" with Ray Milland and Frances Farmer about the Barbary War, but the film was not made. Instead he made a drama with Sylvia Sidney, \"You and Me\" (1938) directed by Fritz Lang, then was reunited with Hathaway for another adventure story, \"Spawn of the North\" (1938), with Henry Fonda.\nHe was announced for \"The World Applauds\" and \"Two-Time Loser\".\n\nParamount wanted Raft to appear in \"St Louis Blues\" but he refused and was replaced by Lloyd Nolan. \"Raft is Hollywood's authority on walk outs\", wrote one columnist. He was suspended, then allowed to do a comedy, \"The Lady's from Kentucky\" (1939). In January 1939 he refused to make \"The Magnificent Fraud\" and was again replaced by Lloyd Nolan. Raft's contract was meant to go until February of that year but they decided to end it early.\n\nRaft received an offer from Warner Bros to appear opposite James Cagney in a prison film, \"Each Dawn I Die\" (1939). He followed this with \"I Stole a Million\" (1939) for Universal. \"Each Dawn I Die\" was a big success and Warners offered Raft a long term contract in July 1939, at three films a year.\n\nRaft was meant to remake \"The Patent Leather Kid\" and appear in the story of John Dillinger film with Cagney but both projects were called off. Instead he was assigned to \"Invisible Stripes\" (1939) with William Holden as his brother and Humphrey Bogart in support. Raft was borrowed by Walter Wanger to play a gangster in \"The House Across the Bay\" (1940), which was a flop. He was cast in \"City for Conquest\" (1940) but turned down the role and was replaced by Anthony Quinn.\n\nHe was meant to be in \"Star of Africa\" but the film was not made. He was also meant to make \"The Dealer's Name was George\" from a story by Ketti Frings but turned down the movie; it was revived in 1945 as a possible Humphrey Bogart movie but was ultimately never made.\n\n\"They Drive by Night\" (1940), directed by Walsh, was a trucking melodrama, with Raft playing the lead, Bogart appearing in a supporting role as his brother, and Ann Sheridan portraying Raft's leading lady. He turned down the lead in \"South of Suez\" (1940) and was replaced by George Brent. He was placed on suspension but was meant to go back off it to appear in \"The Sea Wolf\" (1941), but he did not like the role and was suspended again. John Garfield took his place. MGM were going to borrow him to co-star with Norma Shearer in \"The World We Make\" but the film was never made.\n\nRaft also turned down the leads in \"High Sierra\" (which had been turned down by Paul Muni) and \"The Maltese Falcon\" (1941). Both roles were played by Humphrey Bogart. Instead Raft made \"Manpower\" (1941), with Edward G. Robinson and Marlene Dietrich. During filming, Raft and Robinson came to blows, with photographs splashed across newspapers. Raft then turned down the lead in \"All Through the Night\" (1942), refusing to turn up on the first day of filming because he did not want to play a \"heel\". Bogart took that role as well. It meant Raft was unable to take up Fox's offer to appear in \"To the Shores of Tripoli\".\n\nRaft wanted to appear in a film version of the musical \"Broadway\" (1942), made at Universal. Jack Warner refused to loan him out so Raft spent eight months on suspension without pay. They could only do this while making movies that Raft turned down; eventually Warners ran out of movies and they would have to go back to paying him. They let him make \"Broadway\".\nRaft said he had to pay $27,500 out of his own pocket and negotiate so that Warners could borrow Robert Cummings from Universal for another film. The resulting film was a mild box office success. \nRaft was reported to have turned down Bogart's role in \"Casablanca\" (1942), although according to some Warner Bros. memos, this story is apocryphal. Raft was discussed as a possibility for the lead at one stage, but never offered it.\n\nRaft was one of many Warners names who appeared in \"Stage Door Canteen\" (1943). He was reportedly working on a play based on his life with W.R. Burnett called \"Hell's Kitchen\". He finally returned to filming at Warners with the espionage thriller \"Background to Danger\" (1943), a film intended to capitalize on the success of \"Casablanca\" (Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre were in support – Raft and Lorre got into a fistfight on set.). In November 1942, Raft bought himself out of his Warners contract in order to do \"Hell's Kitchen\" on stage. He ended up never doing the play on stage.\nRaft's career as a freelance actor initially began well. He toured the US, England and Africa, performing for the troops. He was offered the lead in \"Double Indemnity\" (1944) by Billy Wilder but turned it down. \"We knew then that we'd have a good picture\", said Wilder later. (Raft later admitted \"I wasn't very intelligent then.\")\n\nRaft's first film after leaving Warners was \"Follow the Boys\" (1944), a musical at Universal, which featured a number of Universal's stars in a guest spots and Raft in the lead. It achieved a healthy gross. 20th Century Fox hired him to a contract so he could appear in a musical, \"Nob Hill\" (1945), replacing Fred MacMurray; directed by Hathaway, it was a huge hit.\n\nFollowing this he made a thriller at RKO for director Edwin Marin, \"Johnny Angel\" (1945), which was an unexpected hit as well, making a profit of over a million dollars. Also popular was \"Whistle Stop\" (1946), a melodrama for United Artists, which gave an early good role to Ava Gardner. \"Mr. Ace\" (1946), with Sylvia Sidney and director Marin for producer Benedict Bogeaus, was a flop. However it did lead to a radio series starring Raft, \"The Cases of Mr. Ace\" (1947).\n\nIn 1946, Raft earned a reported $108,000 for the year. Raft announced he had created his own production company, Star Films, with Sam Bischoff as president, and would make three films in two years for $3.5 million. He and Marin returned to RKO to make the film noir \"Nocturne\" (1946), produced by Joan Harrison which was popular. Raft's next three films were all directed by Marin: \"Christmas Eve\" (1947), at United Artists for Bogeus, a box office disappointment; \"Intrigue\" (1947) at United Artists for Star Films; \"Race Street\" (1948) at RKO. In June 1947 Raft received some bad publicity when his friend Bugsy Siegel was murdered.\n\nStar Film's second movie was a story of the French Foreign Legion, \"Outpost in Morocco\" (1949), partly shot on location in Africa. The film was a box office disappointment. He followed this with a series of thrillers: \"Johnny Allegro\" (1949), directed by Ted Tetzlaff for Columbia; \"Red Light\" (1949), by Roy del Ruth for United Artists; and \"A Dangerous Profession\" (1949), by Tetzlaff for RKO. None of these performed particularly strongly at the box office, and Raft's standing as a box office attraction had been damaged. The \"Johnny Allegro\" shoot went on for so long that Raft missed out on the chance to star in \"The Big Steal\" (1949); he was replaced by Robert Mitchum.\n\nRaft went to England to make \"I'll Get You for This\", shot in 1950 but not released for another year. In the summer of 1951, Raft had the title role in the radio adventure series \"Rocky Jordan\". He played \"the owner of a cabaret in Cairo whose life is steeped in intrigue.\" It only lasted a few months.\n\nRaft appeared in two low budget thrillers, \"Escape Route\" (1952), shot in England with Sally Gray, and \"Loan Shark\" (1952). Both were released through Lippert Pictures. He starred in a syndicated TV series \"I'm the Law\" (1953) which ran one season. \"The Man from Cairo\" (1953), also for Lippert and shot in Europe and Africa, was the last film in which Raft had top billing. He resumed his dancing career, doing an exhibit in Las Vegas. \"As far as films are concerned, I'm dead\", he said. \"Nobody has been breaking their necks trying-to hire me.\" He tried to persuade Darryl Zanuck to remake \"The Honor System\". \"I want to play heavies again\", he said. \"I think I made a mistake going straight.\"\n\nRaft had an excellent role as mob boss supporting Robert Taylor in \"Rogue Cop\" (1954), a hit at MGM. Also popular was \"Black Widow\" (1954), a noir with Ginger Rogers, but \"A Bullet for Joey\" (1955), which reunited Raft with Robinson, was a flop.\n\nRaft was one of many guest stars in \"Around the World in 80 Days\" (1956) after which, said Raft, \"the telephone just seemed to stop ringing\". He decided to look for other work.\n\nIn 1955 Raft was offered a 2% share in the Flamingo Hotel if he acted as entertainment director. Raft agreed but was rejected for a gaming licence because of his history of working at clubs owned by crime figures such as Owney Madden. He appealed and managed to get the decision overturned and went to work at the hotel negotiating their show business deals. He later worked as a greeter at the Capri Casino in Havana, Cuba, where he was a part owner. This ended when Fidel Castro took over the country and stamped out the casinos. (Raft was in Havana the night the revolutionaries arrived.)\n\nBack in Hollywood, Raft was offered a role in \"Some Like It Hot\" (1959) as a gangster. Due to Marilyn Monroe's tardiness on set, it turned into 16 weeks of work. He made a film in England, \"Jet Over the Atlantic\".\n\nThe success of \"Some Like It Hot\" did not lead to a comeback, but Raft managed to get roles as a casino owner in \"Ocean's 11\" (1960), and had a cameo as himself in \"The Ladies Man\" (1961). In Britain he was in a pilot that never went to series, \"Two Guys Abroad\" (1962), and back in Hollywood had small roles in \"For Those Who Think Young\" (1964) and \"The Patsy\" (1964).\n\nIn 1965 Raft was convicted of income tax evasion. He pled guilty to one count and was fined $2,500. The following year he testified in front of a New York grand jury about Mafia financial transactions.\n\nRaft received an offer from Andy Neatrour to work as a host and part owner of a gambling club in London, the Colony Club. Raft went there in 1966. While in there he had parts in several movies, including a cameo in 1967's James Bond spoof \"Casino Royale\", a French film with Jean Gabin \"The Upper Hand\" (1966) and \"Five Golden Dragons\" (1967). The club was a success. However, after he went to the US for a short holiday he was banned from re-entering London in 1967 as an \"undesirable\".\n\nHis later films included \"Skidoo\" (1968), and \"Madigan's Millions\" (1968).\n\nIn the early 1970s, Raft appeared in a now-famous Alka Seltzer television commercial playing the role of a prison inmate. He worked as a goodwill ambassador for the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas. He had to sell his house and move into an apartment in Century City.\n\nHis final film appearances were in \"Hammersmith Is Out\" (1972), \"Sextette\" (1978), reunited with long-ago co-star Mae West, and \"The Man with Bogart's Face\" (1980), a nod to 1940s detective movies.\n\nRaft was a stockholder in the Parvin-Dohrmann Corporation, a hotel and casino company which owned the Flamingo Las Vegas.\n\nRay Danton played Raft in \"The George Raft Story\" (1961), which co-starred Jayne Mansfield. Raft himself, however, excoriated the film upon its release due to inaccuracies. In the 1991 biographical movie \"Bugsy\", the character of George Raft was played by Joe Mantegna.\n\nRaft has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, for contributions to motion pictures at 6150 Hollywood Boulevard, and for television at 1500 Vine St.\n\nRaft married Grace Mulrooney (1902-1970) in 1923, long before his stardom. The pair separated soon thereafter, but the devoutly Catholic Mulrooney refused to grant a divorce, and Raft remained married to her, and continued to support her, until her death in 1970. A romantic figure in Hollywood, Raft had love affairs with Betty Grable, Marlene Dietrich, Tallulah Bankhead, Carole Lombard and Mae West. He stated publicly that he wanted to marry Norma Shearer, with whom he had a long romance, but his wife's refusal to allow a divorce eventually caused Shearer to end the affair.\n\nWhen James Cagney became president of the Screen Actors Guild in 1942 for a two-year term, he took a role in the guild's fight against the Mafia, which had taken an active interest in the movie industry. Cagney's wife, Billie, once received a phone call telling her that Cagney was dead. Cagney alleged that, having failed to scare him and the guild off, they sent a hit man to kill him by dropping a heavy light onto his head. On hearing about the rumor of the hit, George Raft made a call, and the hit was supposedly cancelled.\n\nRaft was interviewed by FBI agents in 1938 and 1953. The 1938 interview was about his knowledge of Louis Buchalter and Jacob Shapiro.\n\nRaft was investigated for tax evasion in 1942.\n\nIn 1944 Raft's name was mentioned in connection with an illegal dice game.\n\nIn 1944 he gave evidence when Bugsy Siegel was on trial for bookmaking.\n\nIn 1946 Raft was sued by an attorney for assault.\n\nRaft was present with Bugsy Siegel in 1946 when the latter was arrested for bookmaking. Raft attended the opening of the Flamingo Hotel.\n\nIn 1953 Raft vouched for John Capone when he got out of prison.\n\nIn 1967, Raft was denied entry into the UK (where he had been installed as casino director at a casino known as the \"Colony Club\") due to his underworld associations.\n\nRaft died from leukemia at the age of 79 in Los Angeles, on November 24, 1980. Two days earlier, Mae West had died, and the two stretchers holding the stars' bodies were briefly alongside one other in the hallway of the mortuary for a coincidental silent reunion almost half a century after their first film together.\n\nRaft left behind no will. His estate consisted of a $10,000 insurance policy and some furniture. In the last years of his life he had mainly lived on $800 a month, a combination of social security and his pension. He was interred in Forest Lawn – Hollywood Hills Cemetery in Los Angeles. Raft's personal effects, wardrobe, etc., were sold by means of a simple classified advertisement, listing the lot for $800 in \"Hemming's Motor News\" in the fall of 1981.\n\n\nRaft turned down roles in the following films:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50789061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50789061", "title": "Hop! Channel", "text": "Hop! Channel\n\nHop! Channel (Hebrew: !ערוץ הופ, \"Arutz Hop!\") is an Israeli television channel, intended entirely for preschool children. The channel broadcasts in Israel daily between 5:00 am and 23:00 pm, as a part of the base packages of cable company HOT and satellite company yes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14960106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14960106", "title": "ICA Group", "text": "ICA Group\n\nThe ICA Group is an American not-for-profit entity specializing in consulting organizations wishing to become fully owned by the employees. The organization has a reliable work history with the NCBA. While ICA primarily provides consultation to worker cooperatives, it also offers support to employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs).\n\nNote it should not be confused with another company of the same name, The ICA Group, a group of investors headed by Mr Ali Nawaz Shaikh.\n\n"}
{"id": "42161679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42161679", "title": "Immigration to Japan", "text": "Immigration to Japan\n\nAccording to the Japanese Ministry of Justice, the number of foreign residents in Japan has steadily increased in the post Second World War period, and the number of foreign residents (excluding illegal immigrants and short-term foreign visitors and tourists staying less than 90 days in Japan) was more than 2.23 million at the end of 2015. With an estimated population of 127.11 million in 2015, the resident foreign population in Japan amounts to approximately 1.75% of the total population.\n\nDue to geographic remoteness, and periods of self-imposed isolation, the immigration, cultural assimilation and integration of foreign nationals into mainstream Japanese society has been comparatively limited. Historian Yukiko Koshiro has identified three historically significant waves of immigration prior to 1945; the 8th-century settlement of Korean artists and intellectuals; the asylum offered to a small number of Chinese families in the 1600s; and the forced immigration of up to 670,000 Korean and Chinese laborers during the Second World War.\n\nAfter 1945, unlike the Gastarbeiter immigration encouraged in advanced industrial economies such as Germany, Japan was for the greater part able to rely on internal pools of rural labour to satisfy the manpower needs of industry. The demands of small business owners and demographic shifts in the late 1980s however gave rise for a limited period to a wave of tacitly accepted illegal immigration from countries as diverse as the Philippines and Iran.\n\nProduction offshoring in the 1980s also enabled Japanese firms in some labour-intensive industries such as electronic goods manufacture and vehicle assembly to reduce their dependence on imported labour. In 1990, new government legislation provided South Americans of Japanese ancestry such as Japanese Brazilians and Japanese Peruvians with preferential working visa immigration status. By 1998, there were 222,217 Brazilian nationals registered as resident in Japan with additional smaller groups from Peru and Argentina. In 2009, with economic conditions less favorable, this trend was reversed as the Japanese government introduced a new programme that would incentivise Brazilian and other Latin American immigrants to return home with a stipend of $3000 for airfare and $2000 for each dependent.\n\nAs of the second half of 2015, with an increasingly elderly Japanese population and lack of manpower in key sectors such as construction, IT services and health care, Japanese politicians are again debating the need to expand temporary foreign labour pools, through the use of short-term trainee programs.\n\nResident foreign nationals in Japan that are counted in immigration statistics of permanent residents and mid-long term residents (granted resident visas for 12 months or more) include individuals and their registered dependents with:\n\nFrom 2013 published government reports, the proportion of foreign residents granted permanent resident status in Japan exceeded 30%. Although, if foreign residents granted special permanent resident status, spouses of Japanese nationals, fixed domicile residents (those of Japanese ancestry) and ethnic Koreans with residence in Japan are included, the number of resident foreigners granted permanent residence effectively exceeds 60%.\n\nThe published statistics on foreign nationals resident in Japan includes zainichi Koreans with \"tokubetsu eijusha\" Special permanent resident status, of whom there were 354,503 (of a total of 358,409 of all nationalities with such visas).\n\nForeign nationals already long term residents in Japan under another visa category such as a working visa or as the spouse of a Japanese national are eligible to apply for permanent residence status. The granting of permanent residence status is at the discretion of the Immigration Bureau and dependent on satisfaction of a number of detailed criteria such as length of stay, ability to make an independent living, record of tax payments and documented contributions to Japan in terms of public service or professional activities.\n\nInternational marriage migration used to represent as much as 25% of permanent migration flows to Japan, but this trend has been in decline since a peak in 2006. In the 1980s increasing numbers of Japanese men were registering marriages in Japan to women from China, Korea and the Philippines.\n\nIn 2006, according to data released by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare, 44,701 marriages, or 6.11% of all marriages registered in Japan were to a foreign national. In 2013, this number had fallen to 21,488 marriages or 3.25% of all marriages registered in Japan. Of the 21,488 international marriages registered in Japan in 2013, 15,442 or 71.77% were marriages involving a foreign bride, compared to 6,046 or 28.23% where the groom was non-Japanese.\n\nJapan registered marriage statistics alone may not present a comprehensive picture of the numbers of international marriages in Japan as marriages registered overseas may also contribute to total immigrant spouse numbers. Once married, foreign spouses may also, if certain criteria are satisfied, change their visa status to Permanent Resident or other visa categories. 2012 Ministry of Justice data indicates that of all foreigners in Japan, 7.5% are resident in Japan under a visa designation as a spouse of a Japanese national.\n\nAt the end of December 2014 there were 2,121,831 foreigners residing in Japan. Of this number 677,019 (32%) were considered long-term, but non permanent residents; those granted visas for a duration of 12 months or more. The majority of long-term residents in Japan on limited duration work or study visas were from Asia, totalling 478,953. Chinese made up the largest portion of this group with 215,155, followed by Filipinos with 115,857, and Koreans with 65,711. Thai, Vietnamese, and Taiwanese long-term residents totaled 47,956, and those from other Asian countries totaled 34,274. Individuals on limited duration Technical Intern Training Program visas account for nearly 200,000 of the number of long-term residents in any given year.\n\nJapan is a signatory to the UN 1951 Refugee Convention as well as the 1967 Protocol. The country therefore has made a commitment to offer protection to people who seek asylum and fall into the legal definition of a refugee, and moreover, not to return any displaced person to places where they would otherwise face persecution.\n\nJapan has historically been one of the world's most generous donors to refugee relief and resettlement programs overseas. In 2014 it was the world's 2nd largest financial contributor to UNHCR programs. Japanese diplomat Sadako Ogata served as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from 1991-2000.\n\nAs of December 2015 Japan had 13,831 asylum applications under review. In 2016, more than 10,000 applications for refugee status in Japan were received and in the same year 28 asylum applications were approved. In 2015, more than 7,500 people applied for refugee status and 27 asylum applications were approved. In 2014, more than 5000 applications were made and 11 applications were approved. Recent low approval rates for asylum applications follow historic trends; in a 22-year period from 1982 to 2004, a total of 330 applications for asylum were approved, an average of 15 per year.\n\nWhereas in Germany and Canada around 40% of asylum applications are approved, in Japan the number averages 0.2 per cent. On occasion, where Japan has stopped short of granting official refugee status, a limited number of applicants have been granted permission to stay on humanitarian grounds. In 2016, 97 refugee applicants were granted permission to stay on this basis. Decisions on refugee status in Japan are often slow, and confirmation of deportation orders are not widely published. Resubmission of asylum claims by previously unsuccessful applicants often occurs.\n\nBetween 2010 and January 2018, a rise in the number of asylum seekers in Japan was attributed in part to a legal loophole related to the government administered Technical Intern Training Program. In 2015, 192,655 vocational trainees mainly from developing economies were working in Japan in factories, construction sites, farms, food processing and in retail. Although total numbers are small, following a change in rules in 2010, asylum applications jumped four-fold, fueled by asylum seekers from Nepal, Turkey and Sri Lanka. Rising numbers of vocational trainees reportedly made formal asylum applications in order to change employers and escape reported employment abuses and low pay. The government-backed vocational program allows trainees to work on either one or three year contracts. Although the chances of refugee status been granted in Japan are exceptionally small, asylum applicants were permitted to get a job six months after applying for refugee status and, significantly, to make their own choice of employer. \n\nPermits enabling legal employment six months after application for refugee status were discontinued by the Justice Ministry in January 2018. Workplace inspections and illegal immigration deportation enforcement activities were subsequently stepped up aimed at curbing alleged abuse of the refugee application system.\n\nAccording to Ministry of Justice (MOJ) estimates, the number of foreign nationals staying illegally in Japan beyond their authorized period of stay dropped to approximately 60,000 as of January 1, 2015. Illegal immigrant numbers had peaked at approximately 300,000 in May 1993, but have been gradually reduced through both stricter enforcement of border controls, workplace monitoring and an expansion of government run foreign worker programs for those seeking a legal route to short term employment opportunities in Japan.\n\nBorder controls at ports of entry for foreign nationals include examination of personal identification documentation, finger printing and photo recording. Security at both air and maritime ports is closely controlled. As a result, according to MOJ data, the single largest source of illegal immigrants in Japan are those foreign nationals found to have stayed illegally beyond the 90 day time period of the temporary visitor visa.\n\nIn 2015 9,469 applications for Japanese citizenship were approved. The number of foreign residents in Japan applying to naturalize and obtain Japanese citizenship peaked in 2008 at more than 16,000, but declined to 12,442 in 2015. Processing of applications can take up to 18 months. Application criteria are set deliberately high and inspectors are granted a degree of discretion in interpretation of eligibility and good conduct criteria.\n\nMost of the decline in applications is accounted for by a steep reduction in the number of Japan-born Koreans taking Japanese citizenship. Historically the bulk of those taking Japanese citizenship have not been new immigrants but rather Special Permanent Residents; Japan-born descendants of Koreans and Taiwanese who remained in Japan at the end of the Second World War.\n\nThe concept of as represented in Japanese makes no distinction between racial, ethnic, and national identities. Where the census of the United Kingdom, for example, separates \"ethnic or racial background\" from nationality, the Japanese Census and Statistics Bureau do not distinguish between the two.\n\nThe definition of ethnic and racial boundaries alongside national ones leads many people to represent Japan as , with an explicit purity of blood and culture. In 2005 Former Japanese Prime Minister Tarō Asō described Japan as being a nation of \"one race, one civilization, one language and one culture\" and in 2012, this claim was repeated by former Governor of Tokyo Shintaro Ishihara.\n\nThe concept of a unified \"minzoku\" retains a legal authority. A 1984 amendment to the Japanese Nationality Act made citizenship jus sanguinis, tied to blood rather than place of birth. Japanese citizenship is exclusive: those who naturalize must renounce their first nationality, and those who are born Japanese but with a second citizenship must choose between them by the time they are 20 years old.\n\nA 1999 review article of opinion polls show attitudes broadly neutral and actually less negative than other developed countries. In 1993 64% of respondents supported allowing firms facing labor shortages to hire unskilled foreign workers. A 2017 poll by Gallup shows a similar attitude 30 years later, with Japan middling among developed countries in terms of public positivity towards immigration, ranking close to France, Belgium and Italy. One recent 2015 poll by the Asahi Shimbun found that 34% of its readers opposed an expansion of immigration to maintain Japan's economic status in the face of a shrinking and rapidly aging workforce, while 51% of its readers supported increased immigration. However, a large poll of 10,000 native Japanese conducted later that year, between October and December 2015, found more opposition to increasing foreign immigration. Nearly half of Asahi Shimbun's readers who responded to a 2016 poll said that immigrants should respect Japanese culture and obey Japanese customs, while about one quarter said that Japanese people should embrace diversity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38863008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38863008", "title": "Japanese adult adoption", "text": "Japanese adult adoption\n\nJapanese adult adoption is the practice in Japan of legally and socially accepting a nonconsanguineal adult into an offspring role of a family. The centuries-old practice was developed as a mechanism for families to extend their family name, estate and ancestry without an unwieldy reliance on blood lines. Still common today, adult adoption is a dynamic tool for social and economic mobility.\n\nThere is evidence that this practice began as early as sometime in the 13th century within the sect of Buddhism known as Pure Land Buddhism, but only really became widely used in the Tokugawa (or Edo) period, which began around 1600 and lasted until 1868. During the Tokugawa period, much of the Samurai class would adopt sons for the purpose of creating a strong, fixed position in society through the assumption of positions such as the head of household and the head of the business. It also was a way for households lacking in sons to continue a patrilineal line, and remain a functioning societal power. This was its most common purpose, but was also seen by the adoptees as a way to climb the social ladder by leaving the title of second son, etc. behind.\n\nThough it may have originated earlier, adult adoption was used within the sect of Pure Land Buddhism. This sect of Buddhism, called Jodo Shinshu, is associated with the Honganji temples located near Kyoto. Sons associated with the Honganji would be adopted out into prominent families of the surrounding areas. It most likely developed as a strategy for gaining power within the community, but it just happened to have some practical consequences associated with it. When families would find themselves lacking either a capable male heir or a son altogether, they would turn to adoption by marrying a man to one of their daughters, or just merely taking them into their household. It was a way for families to ensure the continuity of a reliable male line that would take over as the family head and sometimes the head of the family business.\n\nAdult adoption lost some of its steam during the following years after its use in the 13th century. It really became a common occurrence around 1600 when the Tokugawa period began. Starting out small, it was used mostly by the Samurai class, especially those who lacked an elder or a capable son. Those who wished to adopt were encouraged to look within their own extended family for suitable candidates, but would adopt outside of the family if there were no viable options. Adopted sons (during the Tokugawa period, especially in the early years) usually were a part of the same social circle and income level. From the point of view of the adopted son, it was not so much an increase of class position, but rather a way to receive an independent life by becoming a first-born son. This does not mean that there were no vertical jumps in the social stratum by less wealthy individuals, but it was significantly less common. By being adopted, second-born sons were able to take over as the heads of households, and become the leader of the family business as well as a leader within the community itself.\n\nThe popularity of this practice rose steadily throughout the Tokugawa period, and soon became a common occurrence among other social groups other than Samurai. The reason for its popularity among the ruling class has been speculated to have risen out of a low birth rate among wealthy and important, though there are many other reported reasons or inconsistencies that refute this explanation. What is known, though, is that it has continued to be practiced in modern Japan, although it has become much more of a business strategy in certain areas.\n\nJapan is characterized by one of the highest adoption rates in the world; over 81,000 legal, domestic adoptions were brokered in Japan in 2011. Though different types of adoption occur in Japan, adoption to secure a familial heir is the most prevalent. Adoptions to secure heirs have steadily escalated from 73% of all Japanese adoptions in the mid 20th century to over 98% of all adoptions in 2004. Although these regular adoptions may include children or adults, the vast majority of the adoptees are childless adult males. Over 90% of the 81,000 people adopted in Japan in 2011 were adult males in their 20s and 30s.\n\nAdult adoption takes many forms in modern Japanese practice. Yōshi-engumi (adoption of an heir) often entails the adoption of a daughter’s husband by her family. The son-in-law becomes a mukoyōshi, an adopted husband. Mukoyōshi status is preferred by families seeking a strong heir. Married couples who are nonconsanguineal with the adopting family may also be adopted into a family. Individual adult adoption occurs as well, involving both single adult males and females. Males and females who do not marry a daughter or son of their adopted family may marry outside of the family.\n\nThe adoption of one individual by another in Japan is commonly used as an alternative to same-sex marriage, which does not exist in Japan. By the elder party adopting the younger (as stipulated by the rules of adoption), the estate of either party can then be inherited or absorbed by the other without the payment of the prohibitive gift tax that would otherwise apply.\n\nAlthough the practice has endured, social opinion and widespread practice of adult adoption have shifted greatly over the course of the 20th and 21st centuries. In the early 20th century for example, becoming a mukoyōshi was considered an embarrassment or even emasculating. In the absence of a gain of power or capital, a mukoyōshi could be equated with a bride as he adopted a new surname and adjusted to his in-laws. A traditional saying, “As long as you have three gō of rice bran, do not become an adopted husband\" exemplifies this. As regular adoption rates climbed in the late 20th century, however, and adult adoption became more closely intertwined with family firms and capitalism, adult adoption disseminated evenly to urban and rural areas. Today, adult adoption is often viewed as opportunistic and, as a result, has gained a degree of prestige. At times, it is sought-after.\n\nThe practice of brokering marriages between marriageable young women in families with business firms and young men has become a fairly common and profitable practice. Some males are now joining dating sites specifically made for men looking to become Mukoyōshi, and be adopted by families who need a male successor for their businesses. One of the most popular was created by Chieko Date and enables families to meet with potential suitors for their daughters.\n\nJapan is characterized by a bilateral kinship system including patrilineal and matrilineal elements of descent recognition. Succession is largely determined by patrilineal succession via household headship; headship is usually passed in accordance with primogeniture from eldest son to eldest son. Household headship usually determines the individual in control of a household and its estate, possibly including an associated farm or business. Because of the deeply rooted importance of the family as a multigenerational corporation in Japan, familial continuity and stability of household leadership are given precedence over consanguinity. It is common to include some non-consanguineal household members in household descent, particularly affinal males and adopted descendants. Adult adoption, just one solution to the restrictions presented by a rigid system of succession, ensures the presence of a household head. The Koseki, a family registry system, legally defines the head of a household, whether the head is male or female. Adoptions are officially recorded in a family’s Koseki. Adoption secures a full legal, ideological, and kinship role as a son or daughter for an adoptee. An adopted adult forgoes his original surname and line of descent and takes on the adopted family’s name and line. Any children born to an adopted adult, such as to a mukoyōshi and his wife, are considered part of the adopted family’s descent. Adopted adults also accept the responsibility of the adequate care of the family’s ancestors in accordance with Buddhist doctrine.\n\nWhen an adult is adopted into a family in Japan through regular adoption (Yôshi engumi), they are expected to inherit the adoptive family’s name in exchange for an inheritance. He is also expected to take on the adoptive family’s ancestors. Terms of the adoption are that families cannot adopt more than one adoptee if they already have children. If the prospective adoptive family is childless, they can adopt two children. The adoptee must be at least 15 years old, and must be at least a day younger than the adoptive parents. The current average adoptive age is about 20–30 years old. In the case of a Mukoyōshi, the husband is adopted by the parents of his wife and made head of the business. This is often the case when the only heir to take over the family business is female. If the adoptee decides to go back to his biological family, goes missing, or deserts his adopted family, the adoption can legally be dissolved.\n\nIn contemporary Japanese society, many Japanese businesses are staying in the family line because of the convenience and prevalence of adult adoption. In the past, merchant families in Western Japan would adopt an heir if the biological predecessor was incapable of taking over the family business. When there is no son to inherit the company or the son is deemed too inadequate or unintelligent to take over, the CEO will then turn to adult adoption, adopting a worthy employee from the business. This is also the case when the original biological heir is uninterested in taking over the family business. Large successful family run corporations such as Suzuki are utilizing this strategy. The current CEO of Suzuki, Osamu Suzuki, is the fourth adopted son that is heading the company. Suzuki surpassed his own biological heir and named Hirotaka Ono as his successor, because he felt that his biological son was less capable. Other famous companies using this method are Kikkoman, Canon, Toyota, and Matsui Securities. The world’s oldest family business, the Hōshi Ryokan, has been passed down through the family name for 1,300 years. If the adopted male heir falls short of success, he can be passed over and disinherited from the family, although it is very rare. If this happens, another successor can be adopted, since the first lost his inheritance.\n\n"}
{"id": "12197835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12197835", "title": "Korean Canadians", "text": "Korean Canadians\n\nKorean Canadians are Canadians who are of full or partial Korean descent, It also includes Canadian-born Koreans. According to South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, there were 240,942 ethnic Koreans or people of Korean descent in Canada , making them the fourth-largest Korean diaspora population (behind Koreans in China, Koreans in the United States, Koreans in Japan and ahead of Koreans in Russia, Koreans in Uzbekistan and Koreans in Australia).\n\nThe first Koreans to come to Canada were local Christians sent by Canadian missionaries as seminary students. Tae-yon Whang is largely regarded as the first recorded Korean immigrant to go to Canada. Tae-yon Whang visited Canada in 1948 as a mission-sponsored medical intern, and stayed in Toronto after his term was over. Unlike Korean Americans who have relatively much longer history settling in the United States, very few settled in Canada; as late as 1965, the total permanent Korean population of Canada was estimated at only 70. However, with the 1966 reform of Canadian immigration laws, South Korean immigration to Canada began to grow. By 1969, there were an estimated 2000 Koreans in Canada. Between 1970 and 1980, 18,148 Koreans immigrated to Canada, and another 17,583 arrived in the following decade. In the late 1990s, South Korea became the fifth-largest source of immigrants to Canada. Toronto has the country's largest absolute number of Koreans, but Vancouver is experiencing the highest rate of growth in its Korean population, with a 69% increase since 1996. Montreal was the third most popular destination for Korean migrants during this period. In 2001, the number of Korean emigrants headed for Canada exceeded the number headed for the United States. The number of temporary residents has also grown ever since the Canadian government granted a visa waiver to South Korea; South Korea was the largest supplier of international students to Canada in the late 1990s. Aside from South Korea, some immigrants are also drawn from among the population of Koreans in China.\n\nThe 1990s growth in South Korean migration to Canada occurred at a time when Canadian unemployment was high and income growth was low relative to the United States. One pair of researchers demonstrated that numbers of migrants were correlated with the exchange rate; the weakness of the Canadian dollar relative to the United States dollar meant that South Korean migrants bringing savings to Canada for investment would be relatively richer than those going to the United States. Other factors suggested as drivers behind the growth of South Korean immigration to Canada included domestic anti-Americanism and the large presence of Canadian English teachers in local \"hagwon\".\n\nSeveral Korean communities have developed in Canada since the migration after 1966. The two most concentrated areas are the Koreatown in Toronto and burgeoning Korean communities in Coquitlam and Vancouver.\n\nToronto officially designated the area on Bloor St. from Bathurst St. to Christie St. as Koreatown in 2004. According to the 2001 census Toronto had roughly 43,000 Koreans living in the city, and in 2011 the numbers have grown to 64,755. The Korean community in Toronto has developed Koreatown such that it offers a Korean grocery store, hairdressers, karaoke bars and a multitude of restaurants. The City of Toronto describes Koreatown as \"Korea Town is primarily a business district offering a wide range of Korean restaurants, high-end-fashion Korean boutiques, herbalists, acupuncturist and many other unique services and shops which are filled with made-in-Korea merchandise.\" Koreatown Toronto is also known for its Spring Dano Festival which is run on the 5th day of 5th month of the Korean Lunar Calendar. The festival is run is the Christie Pits area and has been run for the past 21 years with the exception of 2013 when it was cancelled.\n\nUnofficially, the Willowdale/Newtonbrook areas in North York have large numbers of Korean businesses running from Yonge St. between Sheppard Ave. and Steeles Ave. Dubbed \"Koreatown North\", it also has a growing number of Koreans residing in this area.\n\nKorean communities in both Vancouver and Coquitlam are not officially designated as Koreatown, however their abundant population business districts do represent a developing Korean community. British Columbia and Vancouver represent the second largest Korean community in Canada with 53,770, 49,880 of those living in Vancouver and the surrounding area. The Korean community in Vancouver is located between Nicola and Denman Street and consists of numerous Korean restaurants as well as other businesses. Recently several residents have been promoting the Vancouver Community arguing that it should be called Koreatown and officially designated as such.\n\nIn addition to the community in Vancouver proper, the city of Coquitlam also fosters a growing Korean community. As of 2011 the population of Koreans in Coquitlam was approximately 7,900, therefore does not service the same populations as Vancouver or Toronto. However the community at North Road and Lougheed Highway does consist of many Korean fried chicken houses, large grocery stores, and other small salons, most of which have large amounts of Korean signage.\n\n2007 figures from the South Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade showed 86,084 Canadian citizens, 72,077 permanent residents, 20,738 people on student visas, and 19,271 other temporary residents. The Canada 2001 Census recorded 101,715 Canadians of Korean descent, but Korean community leaders and media organisations suspected that it undercounted the population, especially mobile short-term residents such as English as a Foreign Language students. According to the Canada 1996 Census, 53.6% of Korean immigrants to Canada had attended a four-year tertiary institution, as compared to 23% of the general population. However, because their qualifications and technical certifications are often not recognised by Canadian employers, Korean immigrants often take jobs not commensurate with their education; 40% worked in family-owned businesses, and their average personal income is only 67% that of the average Canadian resident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1659695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1659695", "title": "Kurichiya", "text": "Kurichiya\n\nKurichiya or Kurichiyar also known as Hill Brahmins or Malai Brahmins are a matrilineal tribe of Kerala distributed mainly in Wayanad and Kannur districts of Kerala, India. Kurichiyans are one of the Scheduled Tribes of Kerala practicing agriculture. \n\nThe name Kurichiyan was given by the Kottayam Raja to this class of people as they were adepts in archery. The word Kurichiyan is derived from two words \"kuri\" (target) and \"chiyan\" (people).\n\nGenerally their houses are found in clusters and cluster of houses in one settlement is called \"Mittom\" also known as \"Tharavadu\". A lineage head called \"Karanavar\" heads a \"Mittom\". In addition to \"Karanavan\", Kurichiya society includes medicine man, and other social functionaries such as \"Pittan\". Joint family system is common among the Kurichiyan. Society is divided into lineages headed by lineage heads. A female initiation ritual called the \"pandal pattu\" is performed before a girl’s menarche and after the ear boring ceremony among the tribe. Among the Kurichiyas, a husband may divorce his wife any time he likes : but the wife has to bring her case before the elders, if she wants to leave him, and they decide the question. The Kurichiyans bury their dead ; an arrow is buried with the body if a male, and a scythe if a female.The funeral ceremony on a grand scale is observed at any time convenient in the year. They have no priests : the elders act for the occasion. The deceased ancestors are remembered and once a year, toddy, meat, etc., are placed in a room for their use and subsequently enjoyed by the Kurichiyans. They occupy the highest status among the Wynad tribes in point of caste, they do not take meals of any castes : their houses are polluted if any other caste man should enter the same : and the slightest suspicion is enough to put a man or woman out of the caste. These outcastes have, on such occasion, been taken to the Christian fold. \n\nThe Kurichiyas worship some of the same deities as other Hindus in Kerala, such as \"Kuttichathan\" and \"Vettakkaran\", and \"Kali\" (also called \"Mariamma\"). The Kurichiyas worship their deceased ancestors, called \"Nizhal\" (shadows) as well as a number of deities unique to their tribe. They worship \"Malakkari\" (\"Kari\" of the hills) and the fierce Mother-Goddess \"Karimpili\" (the dark one from the hills). Offering to the deities is given after the harvest in either of the two methods \"Thera\" or \"Koll\". For the \"Thera\", the platform or shrine where the puja (worship) is to be performed is purified by holy water from a Brahmin's hands, and a Kurichiyan dressed up for the occasion, with a white head-dress, acts as an oracle. The \"KumbTiam-Vettal\" (cutting the vessel) then takes place, the \"Muppen\"-headman cutting a bamboo piece full of toddy. Then all similar bamboo pieces in which toddy will have been brought are emptied and the contents consumed. In the offering known as \"Koll\" beaten rice, plantains and jaggery are placed on a plantain leaf at the shrine and the \"Muppen\", after prayers, distributes them.\n\nAccording to tribal myth, in the distant past before creation, they sky was on the top and the earth lies far below covered by the sea. At that time \"Vadakkari Bhagavathi\", the Kurichiya deity had a dream in which the almighty ordered her to find out a place to create 1001 castes. God also allowed her to move the sea side wards and then starts work. Young virgins were given as labourers. On completion of the work the worker went out to meet the God and asked for remuneration. But he objected to give the remuneration before examining the quality of the work. God created a bird called \"Chenthamarapakshi\" ( bird form a red lotus ) and asked the bird to fly around the earth and find out the quality of the work. After examination the bird found out a fault that in one place the work was incomplete. Two hills were standing close to each other without touching one another. There was also water in between these hills. On both the hills god created and placed 18 human castes, different types of animals and plants. Kurichiya believe that they are one among them.\n\nThe traditional account of the Kurichiyars advent into Wyanad is that the Kottayam Raja brought them for fighting the Vedar rulers Arippen and Vedan. Their caste-men would not take them back and they settled in Wynad and in the hilly parts of Kottayam. The number of families so settled is said to be 148. During colonial era, the Kurichya tribe has been well documented in their help of King Pazhassi Raja of Wayanad to fight against the British (during the last decades of the 18th century). Subsequent to the death of Pazhassi Raja, the Kurichiyars and Kurumbers in 1812 unsuccessfully revolted. Kurichiyas thus represent a tribal community that was brought into the Wyanad as mercenary soldiers, settled there as agriculturists a century back, defied British power, and found themselves compelled to earn their living as labourers due to lack of access to education. Today, Kurichiyans are one of the Scheduled Tribes of Kerala. Descendants of the Kurichiya tribes that fought the British alongside Pazhassi Raja have their settlements in and around Banasura Hill. In fact there are four tribal villages lying close to Banasura Hill, three belonging to the Kurichiyas and one belonging to the Paniyas. The Kurichiyas present here helped in the construction of Banasura Hill Resort.\n\nThe Kurichiya consider themselves higher than all other social groups around them, to include even the Brahmin. They observe the \"highest levels of ritual purity\", considering even the touch of a Nambuthiri Brahmin to be polluting.\n"}
{"id": "35106965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35106965", "title": "Language education in Singapore", "text": "Language education in Singapore\n\nSingapore embraces an English-based bilingual education system. Students are taught subject-matter curriculum with English as the medium of instruction, while the official mother tongue of each student - Mandarin Chinese for Chinese, Malay for Malays and Tamil for ethnically Tamil Indians – is taught as a second language. Additionally, Higher Mother Tongue (HMT) is offered as an additional and optional examinable subject to those with the interest and ability to handle the higher standards demanded by HMT. The content taught to students in HMT is of a higher level of difficulty and is more in-depth so as to help students achieve a higher proficiency in their respective mother tongues. The choice to take up HMT is offered to students in the Primary and Secondary level. Thereafter, in junior colleges, students who took HMT at the secondary level have the choice to opt out of mother tongue classes entirely. Campaigns by the government to encourage the use of official languages instead of home languages (e.g. other Chinese varieties) have been largely successful, although English seems to be becoming the dominant language in most homes. To date, many campaigns and programmes have been launched to promote the learning and use of mother tongue languages in Singapore.\n\nThe language education in Singapore has been a controversial topic in Singapore - although Singaporeans are becoming increasingly English-dominant speakers, many have not achieved a good grasp of their mother tongue. This results in a separate controversy regarding the assigned weightage of mother tongue in major examinations such as the PSLE and GCE Ordinary Level as parents worry that children who are taught English as a first language and whom are brought up in English-speaking families are at a disadvantage for not knowing their mother tongue well.\n\nSingapore is a racially and linguistically diverse city-state, with four official languages: English, Mandarin Chinese, Malay and Tamil. During (1819-1942), a variety of school systems were in place and most schools taught exclusively in one of the above four languages. After World War II, schools were gradually brought under government control and the government recognised that a \"lingua franca\" was needed to facilitate communication among the different racial and dialect groups. Malay was briefly considered for this role, in anticipation of the merger with Malaysia. However, English was eventually selected as the common language. Due to the status of English as a world language and the desire for Singaporeans to retain their cultures, the government encourages Singaporeans to be fluent in both English and their mother tongue. In this context, the mother tongue of a Singaporean refers to the official language assigned to their racial group (Mandarin for Chinese, Malay for Malays and Tamil for most Indians), regardless of the language spoken at home.\n\nThe bilingual education policy was officially introduced in 1966 and in its early stages, English could be taught as either the first language or the second language. However, schools teaching English as a second language saw a rapid decline in enrolment and many closed down or switched to teaching English as the first language. This resulted in the mother tongue being taught only as an academic subject. Thus all other lessons and activities conducted beyond the classroom are conducted in English, with the exception of moral education and mother tongue; this is unlike the typical bilingual education models where academic content is taught in two languages. This applies throughout primary school (six years), secondary school (four or five years) and junior college (two years, 20% of cohort) education. However, Special Assistance Plan (SAP) schools, where some activities are conducted in Mandarin, private schools such as madrasahs, international schools and special education schools are exceptions to the system. In tertiary institutions, such as universities, polytechnics and the Institute of Technical Education (ITE), languages are no longer academic subjects almost all content is taught in English, with the exception of some courses on Chinese Studies.\n\nIn 2011, the Lee Kuan Yew Fund for Bilingualism was set up to aid the Ministry of Education (MOE) in their efforts to promote the teaching and learning of the English language and the mother Tongue languages.\n\nThe Ministry of Education (MOE) places heavy emphasis on English, believing that \"mastery of English is vital to Singapore's pupils\" because English is \"the language of administration, education, commerce, science, technology, and global communication\". English skills are assessed through written examinations, oral examinations and listening comprehension. Written examinations include composition writing and comprehension passages, while in oral examinations, students are asked to verbally read passages and describe pictures. The primary school syllabus aims to develop speaking and listening skills, as well as to nurture students into independent readers who can express their ideas in writing. In secondary school, students are expected to speak and write in grammatically correct English tailored to purpose, audience and context. Junior college students are assumed to be fluent in English. Hence, at this level English as an academic subject is replaced by General Paper, where students formulate analysis and arguments about current issues.\n\nEnglish language teaching originally focused on grammar (primary school students were taught over a hundred sentence structures) and oral skills (there were frequent speech drills). A syllabus review in 1981 removed many enrichment activities to enable more students to develop functional literacy in English. Ten years later, another syllabus review replaced grammar teaching with compulsory fiction reading. However, the increasing prevalence of Singlish sparked concerns about declining English standards, leading to a renewed focus on \"systematic and explicit instruction of grammar\" in subsequent syllabus reviews. In 2010, the Ministry of Education engaged language facilitators to conduct enrichment lessons (such as storytelling and drama) in primary schools and announced plans to set up an English Language Institute of Singapore (ELIS) to provide training for English teachers.\n\nAlthough English is the language of instruction in Singapore schools, Mother Tongue is a compulsory subject at the Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE), Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level ('O' Level) and Singapore-Cambridge GCE Advanced Level ('A' Level). Students with strong aptitude for their mother tongue could take up Higher Mother Tongue (together with standard Mother Tongue) at the PSLE and 'O' Levels. If they pass 'O' Level Higher Mother Tongue, they need not study Mother Tongue in junior college, but can choose to take Mother Tongue Literature. In secondary school, interested students may study a third language, such as Mandarin (for non-Chinese), Malay (for non-Malays), Indonesian (for non-Malays), Arabic, Japanese (only for Chinese), French and German (the last three are restricted to the top 10% of the PSLE cohort).\n\nIn 1972, both languages were given double weighting at PSLE. However, since 1980, both languages, along with mathematics and science, have been given equal weighting of 25%. High dropout rates sparked the 1979 introduction of a streaming system, whereby the academically weakest students were transferred to the Monolingual stream and prepared for vocational education. This was replaced in 1992 by EM1 (for top students), EM2 (for average students) and EM3 (for the weakest students) at the primary level, followed by Special, Express, Normal Academic and Normal Technical at the secondary level. Policymakers assumed a correlation between intelligence and language learning, to the extent that the only difference between EM1 and EM2 was that the former offered Higher Mother Tongue (likewise for Special and Express). In 2004, the Ministry of Education started replacing the streaming system (first merging EM1 and EM2) with the current system of ability banding for each subject.\n\nIn certain situations, students are allowed to opt for a simpler Mother Tongue syllabus (Mother Tongue 'B' Syllabus) or a complete exemption from mother tongue lessons altogether. One possible situation where this applies is when a student has learning disabilities, such as dyslexia, which makes it difficult for him or her to write the language. Another situation would be that a student has been living abroad and hence has no contact with his or her mother tongue for many years. In the latter case, a student can opt to study an unofficial language such as French, German or Japanese as their mother tongue. Such situations are assessed on a case-by-case basis.\n\nMandarin Chinese, known simply as Chinese, is the official language representing the Chinese community and the home language of 47.7% of Chinese Singaporeans. Other Chinese varieties, such as Hokkien, Teochew, Cantonese, Hakka and Hainanese, remain widely spoken (home language of 19.2% of Chinese Singaporeans), but the government discourages their use through the Speak Mandarin Campaign. Mandarin was first introduced to Singapore during British colonisation through Chinese schools in the 1920s, since then, it has gained popularity. After Singapore gained independence, the government has maintained continuous efforts to promote the language so as to ensure that Chinese Singaporeans know about their ethnic roots, culture and maintain traditional Asian values. Further efforts to encourage the use of Chinese include Chinese-medium SAP schools, which teach both English and Chinese as first-language standard.\n\nThe following table summarises the changes made with regard to the Chinese Language syllabus.\nThe basic aims of the Chinese syllabus are the mastery of a specific number of characters from a designated list for each level.\n\nThe new Chinese-language curriculum aims to make language learning more enjoyable, in hope that the students would take Mandarin beyond the classroom. Key learning areas include listening and speaking more, as well as building a firm foundation in Chinese character learning skills in lower primary before developing essay skills in upper primary. The Ministry of Education has taken on a differentiated approach in ensuring that each student will learn the language to the best of their abilities via a step-by-step process:\n\nAs of now, the education board is looking into making language learning more interesting and IT-based. For example, language learning through the use of smart phones and online computer games.\n\nThe following table summarises the changes made with regard to the expanding the education of teaching the Chinese language. Unlike the table above, it focuses on how the Chinese language can be greater appreciated through a more holistic teaching of mother tongue languages.\n\nAs Malays are the indigenous people of Singapore, the Malay language, specifically in Rumi (Roman script) rather than Jawi script, is ceremonially recognised as the national language of Singapore. Once the lingua franca of Southeast Asia, Malay is the home language of 82.7% of Malay Singaporeans, as of 2010.\n\nDuring the period of British colonisation, instilling basic literacy and numeracy were the aims of the then available Malay-medium primary schools built by the government, in addition to maintaining the Malay culture. In contrast, the colonial government did not provide for the Chinese and Tamil vernacular schools. By 1986, only a single class of 28 students at the end of their Malay-medium secondary education remained, with no primary level students left. Malay-medium schools thus came to a natural demise, as children ceased to register for Malay-medium education. This was unlike the Chinese-medium schools, which were removed by the government.\n\nCurrently, the status and development of the Malay language in Singapore is overseen by the Malay Language Council of Singapore (Majlis Bahasa Melayu Singapura), which was first established in April 1981. In addition to standardising Malay spelling in Singapore, the council also promotes the usage of the Malay language through the Malay Language Month (Bulan Bahasa Melayu Singapura), first introduced in 1962. The Malay Language Month aims to ensure the continuity of the language as a strong part of the Malay heritage through activities like performances, competitions, and workshops. It also aims to encourage the use of the language in the daily lives of its native speakers. This is a way to ensure that the language retains its relevance in the society for generations to come.\n\nPrimary School: The primary level of the Malay language syllabus covers the foundations of students' proficiency at listening, speech, reading, and writing in Malay. The table below outlines the intended learning outcomes of the syllabus.\n\nRecently, the Ministry of Education enabled increased flexibility in the Malay language curriculum, at the Lower Primary level (Primary 1–3), by introducing \"ability banding or differentiated instruction within a class\". The following table summarises the changes made with regard to the Malay language curriculum:\n\nSecondary School: The secondary level of the Malay language syllabus aims to further students' acquisition and use of effective Malay language, such that their enhanced communication skills will facilitate their appreciation of the Malay language, literature, culture, and values. The following table summarises the changes made with regard to the teaching of the Malay Language.Unlike the table above, this focuses on a greater flexibility for the teaching of Malay in order to provide more opportunities for a student to study the language.\n\nThe Malay examination for PSLE consists of 2 papers, listed in the table below.\nThe Malay examination for O Levels consists of 3 papers, listed in the table below.\nThe Indian community speaks many languages, but as Tamils form the largest group (60% of Indian Singaporeans), Tamil is the official language representing the Indian community and the home language of 36.7% of Indian Singaporeans. Tamil-medium education ended in 1982 when the only Tamil-medium secondary school, the Umar Pulavar Tamil High School, closed down, but Tamil remains taught as a mother tongue.\n\nIn Primary School, the objective of studying the language would be to learn the basic language skills in listening, writing and speaking, while also explaining the cultural values and values needed for the growth of Singapore.\nstudents are taught basic language skills and thinking skills, as well as areas regarding national education, information technology, social and emotional learning through a specific number of Tamil lessons every week.\nThe primary school syllabus is also divided into 3 different triangles which target various areas of learning. These triangles include\n\nThe triangles are also listed in a decreasing order of emphasis. Hence, there is an added focus on speaking and listening of the Tamil language.\n\nIn Secondary school, the objective is to ensure that Tamil is a living language among Singaporean Tamil students. Students are taught to understand instructions, stories and debates about the Tamil Language, and are also educated about Tamil customs. Students are also expected to speak with correct intonation and pronunciation, and achieve fluency in reading and writing the language. Students are also taught to listen and read paragraphs appropriate for their age. They will also be expected to converse fluently in spoken and written Tamil. In addition, students will read poems, simple essays and short stories. Just as in primary school, there is an emphasis on the oral and aural components of the language.\n\nIn primary school, Tamil skills are evaluated through essay writing, written comprehension, listening comprehension and oral communication.\n\nTamil examinations in secondary school include essay and letter writing, sentence completion, written comprehension, listening comprehension and oral components. In 2006, the Tamil syllabus was reformed to increase weighting of speaking and listening components at the PSLE, teach spoken Tamil instead of the formal variety and reduce emphasis on rote memorisation.\n\nTo meet the needs of smaller linguistic groups within the Indian community, five other Indian languages, namely Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Punjabi and Urdu, have been offered as mother tongues since the early 1990s. Lessons are held outside school hours at special centres run by seven Indian community groups, who employ their own teachers and design their own syllabuses.\n\nSome primary and secondary schools do not have sufficient resources or Tamil students to offer Tamil language classes within school hours. Tamils studying in these schools are required to take their Tamil lessons outside school hours, either at the Umar Pulavar Tamil Language Centre (UPTLC) or one of the eleven school-based Tamil language centres.\n\nThe Tamil Language Learning Promotion Committee (TLLPC) was established in 2006 by the MOE. Its establishment is aimed at garnering the support from other Tamil organisations who would be able to contribute resources towards events and programmes that promote the teaching and learning of the Tamil language.\n\nHigher Mother Tongue is an optional subject offered to eligible students at primary and secondary school levels. The Ministry of Education aims to help students with the ability, aptitude and interest in MTL to achieve higher levels of language proficiency and cultural knowledge through HMTL.\n\nOver the years, there has been an increase in the percentage of students taking Higher Mother Tongue Languages (HMTL) at PSLE and 'O' level. In 2003, 17.6% and 16.3% offered Higher Mother Tongue at PSLE and 'O' level respectively. In 2012, the percentage increased to 23.1% at PSLE and 26.9% at 'O' level. See table below for specific statistics.\n\nPrimary school students are able to take Higher Mother Tongue in Primary 5. The EM1/EM2/EM3 streaming system previously, has been replaced with a 'subject-based' banding scheme. As such, parents may opt for their children who have the ability and interest, to pursue mother tongue at a higher level in Primary 5. For students progressing on to the secondary level, the top 11-30% of the cohort scoring an A* grade in the Mother Tongue or at least a Merit in the Higher Mother Tongue during Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) will be eligible to take Higher Mother Tongue in secondary school. Additionally, those ranked in the top 10% of the PSLE are also eligible for HMTL.\n\nStudents who took Higher Mother Tongue at O Levels are exempted from taking Mother Tongue in JC/MI. Students who obtain at least a D7 in Higher Mother Tongue at O Levels are considered to have satisfied the requirements for Mother Tongue, for the admission to the three local universities - NUS, NTU and SMU.\n\nPSLE: Higher Mother Tongue students learn quantitatively more words per chapter- these words are also more advanced than the MTL syllabus. Students reading Chinese as a Higher Mother Tongue would be assessed in only 2 separate formats: Composition and comprehension, with no oral and listening components. The table below compares the words a student must study for Higher Mother Tongue, and for Mother Tongue. \nO Levels: There is a focus on the writing component for Higher Mother Tongue. Their assessment format is as follows:\n\nMalay (PSLE): Higher Mother Tongue (Malay) subject syllabuses for the primary level cover the learning of proverbs, which are more extensive than the list of proverbs for Mother Tongue. There is also no oral and listening components for Higher Mother Tongue (Malay). Hence, the examination format is as follows: \nMalay ( O Levels) : Students are expected to be familiar with a list of proverbs which are more extensive than that for Mother Tongue. Students reading Higher Mother Tongue (Malay) are assessed in Written examination through 2 papers, consisting of:\n\nTamil (PSLE): There is a focus on the learning of basic language skills in listening, writing and talking. There was also an emphasis on explaining cultural values. Students are taught a variety or proverbs and seyyul (a type of poem), which include Thirukkural, Moothurai, Nalvazhi, Athichoodi, kondraivaenthan, and vetrivaerkkai. In addition, students are also taught the grammar and syntax of Tamil. For example, in two Tamil words ஒலி & ஒளி, both of which are pronounced as Oli, students are expected to know the difference in meanings of both words. \nThey are also taught prepositions, knowns as vaetrumai urubu. Other areas include synonyms, antonyms and numerals, Irattai kilavi (a form of sound word), as well as direction words.\n\nTamil ( O Level) : There is a focus on proverbs, grammar, syntax, specifically, learning how to add connective words to sentences and phrases. The students are then tasked with writing sentences without changing the meaning of the given sentences. In addition, they are also tested on Seyyul proverbs. The examination structure follows 2 papers as well, as seen in the table below. \nAs Quentin Dixon, Assistant Professor at Texas A&M University, concluded, Singapore's language education system has succeeded in domain shift of the various languages- from non-standard Chinese varieties to Mandarin and English. Aggressive campaigning to encourage the shifting of home language use to the official languages have allowed students to perform bilingually well compared to some other monolingual countries.\n\nThe mother tongue languages have always been regarded as cultural markers, with English as the key to the door of international opportunities (Wee, 2004). Early bilingual education policy in the 'Efficiency-driven' period (1978–1997) was based on a 'one-size fits all' approach. This has resulted in numerous present-day Singaporeans not having a good grasp of either English or mother tongue. Recently, the Singapore government has admitted to using the wrong teaching methods to teach languages in the past; particularly with regards to its efforts in encouraging bilingual proficiency. In the past, with constant review of the curriculum, the government has admitted the flaws lying in their bilingual policy, pointed out by Lionel Wee:\n\n\nCurrently, mother tongue lessons are aimed at being more interactive and fun for the student, in the hope of increasing interest in the language rather than perceiving it to be an academic subject. Digital media, such as e-learning, is also emerging as a strong tool for education. In addition, the new bilingual education initiatives aim to consider students' home language backgrounds as well as their learning abilities to further ensure they receive the best education possible. The Ministry of Education constantly reviews curricula and policies to ensure their students develop their languages to the best of their ability with a more customised and differentiated approach.\n\nWith the English-based bilingual education policy in the Singapore education system, there has been a shift from students' mother tongues to English as the home language. This is especially so among the ethnic Chinese group, and it is possible that English can potentially emerge as their lingua franca. This has resulted in the controversy of whether English should be used to teach students' mother tongue, specifically Chinese, to help them learn the language better. This method of using the student's first language (L1) to teach a second language (L2) has been recognised by many professionals who teach English as a second language. However, the use of English to teach students' mother tongue in schools is treated as taboo in Singapore.\n\nAnother controversy is in relation to the weightage allocated to Mother Tongues in examinations such as the PSLE. Parents have complained that their children can possibly be excluded from further progression and disadvantaged in their education path if they are unable to excel in their Mother Tongue, despite doing well in the other subjects.\n\nAlthough some parents support the reduction of weightage of Mother Tongues in examinations - more than 1,024 parents signed a petition to support the reduction of Mother Tongue weightage - there are parents who are against this reduction. These parents are worried that the act of reducing the weightage will undermine the importance of Chinese, or the Mother Tongue, and also encourage a defeatist attitude towards language learning. Chinese community leaders have also expressed their concern towards the issue. Chinese community leaders, as well as parents, are afraid that students will view and learn the Mother Tongue merely as an examinable subject, and not as a living language with social relevance. However, the Prime Minister, Lee Hsien Loong, had mentioned in his Prime Minister's speech in 2010 that the Mother Tongue weightage in examinations will not be reduced. Instead, the teaching and examination formats for Mother Tongues will be revised and improved.\n\n"}
{"id": "24509832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24509832", "title": "Lodha people", "text": "Lodha people\n\nLodha people are a tribal/Adivasi people living primarily in the Indian states of West Bengal and Odisha, mostly in the Paschim Medinipur district. A section of the Lodha has converted to Islam, and form a distinct community of Lodha Muslims.\n\nAs per 2001 census, Lodhas numbered 84,966 and formed 1.9 per cent of the scheduled tribe population of West Bengal. They had a literacy rate of 34.8 per cent.\n\nThey are found in Suliapada and Morada blocks of Baripada sub-division of Mayurbhanj district of Orissa.\n\nLodha means piece of flesh named after their ancestor. Lodhas have been in the focus of anthropologists and social activists. During the early period of their rule, the British government in India oppressed the tribal people of Jungle Mahals, who were traditionally dependent upon the forests for a living. They had revolted but were ruthlessly suppressed. Having been deprived of their livelihood and without any alternatives, they took to criminal ways of life and were subsequently branded a criminal tribe. They should properly be labelled as uprooted rebels. Lodha titles are Nayek, Mallick, Digar, Sardar, Bhokta, Kotal, Dandapat, Bhunya etc. These titles. Sabars. One of the most important research on the Lodhas was done by a Calcutta University faculty, Professor Probodh Kumar Bhowmick\nMuch later, researchers from the Department of Anthropology at Vidyasagar University have done empirical studies on the development scenario of the Lodha tribe in Midnapore district who were by that time declared as a 'Primitive Tribal Group'(PTG) by the Government of India.\n\n"}
{"id": "10506264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10506264", "title": "Muhammad Essa", "text": "Muhammad Essa\n\nMuhammad Essa Khan (Urdu/Pashto: ; born on 20 November 1983) is a former Pakistani footballer and current assistant coach of Pakistan national football team and K-Electric F.C. He was the captain of Pakistan national football team and was one of the most talented football players Pakistan had seen then. He was used as a playmaker particularly in support of a striker, or a genuine centre forward because of his ball holding and passing skills. He was a left-footed free-kick specialist. Essa is one of the most well known faces in Pakistani football, due to his regular goal scoring at international level.\n\nBorn in the football-mad city of Chaman in Pakistan's Balochistan province, he took up the game with great interest and passion. He played in the Afghan Club Chaman youth team before signing for PTCL FC.\n\nHe was discovered by then Pakistan youth team and Under 23 manager John Layton back in early 1999 and found his way into the Pakistan national football team soon enough, receiving his first cap in 2000.\n\nHe won the old 2003 PFF President's Cup with PTCL FC. In 2004, Essa was called up to the Pakistan U23 squad for the SAF Games. He ended the tournament as top scorer and was player of the tournament, and helped Pakistan win Gold.\n\nEssa most famous moment came when he scored from a free-kick against India in the first match of the 2005 Pakistan-India friendly series, at the Ayub National Stadium, Quetta to tie the game 1–1 with minutes to go before the final whistle. With a 3–0 victory in the final game in which Essa scored, he was offered a playing contract from major Indian football team East Bengal Club, but the PFF seemingly turned it down to the disappointment of many Pakistani football fans.\n\nIn the inaugural 2004 PPL season he returned to his home town club Afghan Club Chaman with his goals helping them to survive relegation. The following season, the striker transferring to WAPDA FC but could not help them retain their PPL title; finishing second to Pakistan Army FC. In 2006, he captained Pakistan to another SAF Games gold medal. Returning from the Games, he moved to KRL and helping them finish 3rd in the 2006–07 season.\n\nThere had been talk of a few Iranian clubs, notably Foolad F.C. as well as Homa F.C. inviting Essa over for a trial during the previous season but it could not be finalised due to Essa's commitments with KRL. A proposed move to prominent Bangladesh Pro League side Mohammedan Sporting Club also failed to materialise.\n\nEssa played in the Geo Super Football League for Quetta Zorawar as captain with the club coming second in the league round and losing semi-finalists in the knock-out round of the tournament, although he was awarded the SFL 2007 Player of the Tournament trophy. The striker was awarded the 'Salaam Pakistan Award' alongside tennis star Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi and female squash player Maria Toor Pakay for their contributions to sport by the President of Pakistan, Pervez Musharraf on 13 August 2007. He captained Pakistan to a surprise nil-nil draw against Iraq in Syria in the second leg of the World Cup 2010 qualifiers, but were knocked out due to a 7–0 aggregate loss.\n\nOnce he played for shahbaz united and was substituted after missing a penalty kick. Shahbaz united eventually won that match against KRL when Nanoo scored a hatrick and aziz laris scored winner. In the 2007/08 season of the PPL, Essa struggled to score goals, only scoring 9 goals in 21 appearances. He retained his Captaincy for the 2008 AFC Challenge Cup qualifying campaign. Despite a 2–0 win against Chinese Taipei in the first match, they lost 7–1 to Sri Lanka which made Pakistan's 9–2 demolition of Guam meaningless as they finished behind on points to Sri Lanka, thus failing to qualify for the main round. Because of injury, Essa had to miss the SAFF Cup 2008.\n\nIn 2009, he opened an academy at his home town in Chaman, called the Essa Khan Academy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14116196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14116196", "title": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Armenia", "text": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Armenia\n\nAwards and decorations of Armenia are military and civil decorations of Armenia which are bestowed by various agencies of the Armenian government for acts of accomplishment benefiting the government and the Armenian nation as a whole.\n\nNational Hero of Armenia is the highest title in Armenia.\n\nThe law on the title of the \"National Hero of Armenia\" has been in effect since April 22, 1994.\n\n\"National Hero of Armenia\" is awarded for outstanding services of national importance to Armenia in defense and strengthening of the state system and creation of important national values. Those who are awarded the title of the \"National Hero of Armenia\" also receive an \"Order of Fatherland.\"\n\nFamous recipients are:\n\nThe Order of the Combat Cross is awarded for absolute courage, selflessness and skill in defending the Fatherland.\nThere are two degrees to the Order of the Combat cross: The Order of the Combat Cross of the First Degree and The Order of the Combat Cross of the Second Degree. The law on the Order of the Combat Cross has been in effect since April 22, 1994.\n\nOrder of the Combat Cross of the First Degree is awarded to:\n\nOrder of the Combat Cross of the Second Degree is awarded to\n\nThe Order of Glory was founded on 22 December 2010 and is awarded to:\n\nIt is awarded for significant contribution to strengthening and development of bilateral relations, for the preservation of peace and security, for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in activities which encourage the development of economic relations, preservation of spiritual values and cultural activities.\n\nThe \"ribbon\" of the order is crimson red.\nThe Order of Honor is offered for special services to the protection of the state and national interests of the Republic of Armenia, to its independence and to the strengthening of democracy, as well as for significant contribution to the establishment, strengthening and development of friendship with the Republic of Armenia and the promotion of peace between nations. The law on the Order of Honor has been in effect since July 27, 2000.\nThe Order of Honor is awarded to:\n\nThe \"ribbon\" of the order is azure blue.\n\nTigran Mets Order is awarded for exceptional services to the Republic of Armenia. The law on the Tigran Mets Order has been in effect since June 12, 2002. It is named after Tigranes the Great.\nThe Tigran Mets Order is awarded to:\n\nVardan Mamikonian Order is awarded for exceptional courage on military duty, as well as for notable services in army development and increasing the combat readiness of the armed forces. The law on the Vardan Mamikonian Order has been in effect since June 12, 2002.\nIt is named after Vardan Mamikonian. The Vardan Mamikonian Order is awarded to:\n\nSt. Mesrop Mashtots Order is awarded for significant achievements in economic development of the Republic of Armenia, natural and social sciences, inventions, culture, education, healthcare, and public service, as well as for activities promoting scientific, technological, economic and cultural cooperation with foreign countries. The law on the St. Mesrop Mashtots Order has been in effect since July 26, 1993. It is named after Mesrop Mashtots.\n\nMedal for Courage is awarded for courage in defending the Fatherland, protecting the public order, as well as in rescue operations and for performing duties in life-threatening conditions. The Medal for Courage is awarded to employees of the Armenian military forces, the Ministries of Internal Affairs and National Security, the Department of Emergency Situations and the Customs services, as well as to other people. The law on the Medal for Courage has been in effect since July 26, 1993.\n\nMedal for Combat Service is awarded for skillful, original and brave action in performance of military duties, for keeping the army in military preparedness and for service rendered in protection of the country's borders. The Medal for Combat Service is conferred upon Armenian military personnel, as well as other persons. The Law on the Medal for Combat Service has been in effect since July 26, 1993.\n\nAnania Shirakatsi Medal is awarded for notable activities in economy, engineering, science and technology, as well as for significant inventions and discoveries. The Anania Shirakatsi medal is awarded to scientists in the area of economics and natural sciences, engineers and inventors. The law on the Anania Shirakatsi Medal has been in effect since July 26, 1993. The law was amended on November 15, 2000. It is named after Anania Shirakatsi.\n\nMkhitar Heratsi Medal is awarded for services to the development of healthcare in Armenia, high professionalism, practical work, as well as for significant philanthropic activities. The Mkhitar Heratsi Medal is awarded to civilian and military doctors, junior and middle medical personnel, pharmacist, as well as philanthropists and other persons. The law on the Mkhitar Heratsi Medal has been in effect since July 26, 1993. It is named after Mkhitar Heratsi.\n\nMkhitar Gosh Medal is awarded for notable state, public and political activities, as well as significant services in the areas of diplomacy, law and political science. The law on the Mkhitar Gosh Medal has been in effect since July 26, 1993. It is named after Mkhitar Gosh.\n\nMovses Khorenatsi Medal is awarded for notable creative achievements in Armenian culture, arts, literature, education and the humanities. The law on the Movses Khorenatsi Medal has been in effect since July 26, 1993. It is named after Movses Khorenatsi.\n\nAccording to the September 12, 2001 \"Law on Honorary Titles of the Republic of Armenia in the Areas of Science, Education, Journalism, Culture, Arts, Healthcare, Physical Culture and Sports,\" the following Honorary Titles have been created for notable contribution to and exceptional achievements in the areas of science, education, journalism, culture, arts, healthcare, physical culture and sports:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199317", "title": "Otto Frank", "text": "Otto Frank\n\nOtto Frank was born into a Jewish family. He was the second of four children born to Alice Betty (née Stern, 1865–1953) and Michael Frank (1851–1909). His elder brother was Robert Frank, and younger siblings were Herbert Frank and Helene (Leni) Frank. Otto was a cousin of the well-known furniture designer \nJean-Michel Frank and a grandson of Zacharias Frank. His father originally came from the town of Landau, and moved to Frankfurt in 1879, marrying Alice Stern in 1886. He studied economics in Heidelberg from 1908 to 1909 and had a work experience placement at Macy's Department Store in New York City. However, after leaving for New York, he had to return home briefly after his father died in September 1909, before once again leaving for the United States, returning to Germany two years later in 1911.\n\nFrank served in the Imperial German Army during the First World War. He was called up for military service in August 1915 and after training at a depot in Mainz, he served in an artillery unit on the Western Front in which most soldiers were mathematicians and surveyors. He was attached to the infantry as a range-finder at the Battle of the Somme in 1916. In 1917 he was promoted in the field to lieutenant and served at the Battle of Cambrai.\n\nFrank worked in the bank that his father initially ran, which subsequently he and his brothers took over until it collapsed in the early 1930s. He married Edith Holländer – an heiress to a scrap-metal and industrial-supply business – on his 36th birthday, 12 May 1925, at the synagogue in Aachen, Edith's home town. Edith was 25 when they married. Their elder daughter, Margot Frank (Margot Betti), was born 16 February 1926, followed by their younger daughter, Anne (Annelies Marie), on 12 June 1929. Edith died of starvation in Auschwitz. Margot and Anne were transferred from Auschwitz to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp where they died, possibly of typhus.\n\nFrank married Elfriede Geiringer in 1953. Geiringer's daughter, Eva Schloss later assisted him with the Anne Frank Fonds.\n\nAs the tide of Nazism rose in Germany and anti-Jewish decrees encouraged attacks on Jewish individuals and families, Otto decided to evacuate his family. In August 1933 they relocated to Aachen, where his mother-in-law resided, in preparation for a subsequent and final move to Amsterdam in the Netherlands. In the same year, Otto's widowed mother Alice fled to Switzerland. \n\nOtto's Brother-in-law Erich Elias, (husband of his younger sister Leni and father of Buddy Elias) worked in Basel for Opekta, a company that sold spices and pectin for use in the manufacture of jam. Originating in Germany, the company was looking to expand its operations in Europe, and Erich arranged for Otto to work as Opekta's agent in Amsterdam, allowing Otto to have an income to support his family. After Germany invaded the Netherlands in May 1940, Otto made his business look \"Aryan\" by transferring control to non-Jews.\n\nIn 1938 and 1941, Frank attempted to obtain visas for his family to emigrate to the United States or Cuba. He was granted a single visa for himself to Cuba on 1 December 1941, but it is not known if it ever reached him. Ten days later, when Nazi Germany and the Kingdom of Italy declared war on the United States, the visa was cancelled.\n\nAt age 53, Otto Frank took his family into hiding on 6 July 1942 in the upper rear rooms of the Opekta premises on the Prinsengracht. They were joined a week later by Hermann van Pels, who was known as Herman van Daan in Anne's diary, his wife, Auguste van Pels and their son, Peter van Pels. In November, the group was joined by Fritz Pfeffer, known in Anne's diary as Alfred Dussel. Their concealment was aided by Otto Frank's colleagues Johannes Kleiman, whom he had known since 1923, Miep Gies, Victor Kugler, and Bep Voskuijl.\n\nThe group hid for two years until their discovery in August 1944, perhaps as a result of a tip from an anonymous informant or inadvertently by authorities investigating another matter. The group, along with Kugler and Kleiman, were arrested by SS Officer Karl Silberbauer. After being imprisoned in Amsterdam, the Jewish prisoners were sent to the Dutch transit camp of Westerbork and finally to Auschwitz Birkenau. During his time at Auschwitz, Otto Frank wrote to his mother in Switzerland, where she had fled in 1933 when Hitler came to power. It was at Auschwitz in September that Frank was separated forever from his wife and daughters. He was sent to the men's barracks and found himself in the sick barracks when he was liberated by Soviet troops on 27 January 1945. He travelled back to the Netherlands over the next six months and set about finding his family and friends. By the end of 1945, he realized he was the sole survivor of the family and of those who hid in the house on the Prinsengracht.\n\nAfter Anne Frank's death was confirmed in the summer of 1945, her diary and papers were given to Otto Frank by Miep Gies, who rescued them from the ransacked hiding place. Frank left them unread for some time but eventually began transcribing them from Dutch for his relatives in Switzerland. He was persuaded that Anne's writing shed light on the experiences of those who suffered persecution under the Nazis and was urged to consider publishing it. He typed out the diary into a single manuscript, editing out sections he thought too personal to his family or too mundane to be of interest to the general reader. The manuscript was read by Dutch historian Jan Romein, who reviewed it on 3 April 1946 for the \"Het Parool\" newspaper. This attracted the interest of Amsterdam's Contact Publishing, which accepted it for publication in the summer of 1946. Otto Frank is now recognized as a co-author of the diary.\n\nOn 25 June 1947, the first Dutch edition of the diary was issued under the title \"Het Achterhuis\" (\"The Secret Annex\"). Its success led to an English translation in 1952, which subsequently led to a theatrical dramatisation and eventually the 1959 film version, \"The Diary of Anne Frank\", with actor Joseph Schildkraut as Otto.\n\nOtto Frank married former Amsterdam neighbor and fellow Auschwitz survivor Elfriede Geiringer (1905–1998) in Amsterdam on 10 November 1953, and both moved to Basel, Switzerland, where he had family, including relatives' children, with whom he shared his experiences.\n\nIn response to a demolition order placed on the building in which Otto Frank and his family hid during the war, he and Johannes Kleiman helped establish the Anne Frank Foundation on 3 May 1957, with the principal aim to save and restore the building so it could be opened to the general public. With the aid of public donations, the building and the adjacent one were purchased by the Foundation. It opened as a museum (the \"Anne Frank House\") on 3 May 1960 and is still in operation.\n\nOtto Frank died of lung cancer on 19 August 1980 in Basel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10418189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10418189", "title": "Pavement dwellers", "text": "Pavement dwellers\n\nPavement dwellers refers to dwellings built on the footpaths/pavements of city streets, which use the walls or fences which separate building compounds from the pavement and street outside. Materials include cloth, corrugated iron, cardboard, wood, plastic, and sometimes also bricks or cement. \n\nAccording to Sheela Patel of Society for the Promotion of Area Resource Centers, pavement dwellers are primarily first generation migrants who moved to Mumbai as early as the 1940s, and who have lived on the pavement of public roadways ever since. They are completely invisible as far as local, state, and national policies are concerned. People who sleep on or near pavements often pay to keep their belongings in shops, kiosks, or other buildings. \n\nSPARC conducted a study in 1985 about the pavement dwellers called \"We the Invisible\" based on a census of about 6,000 households. It showed approximately half of the pavement dwellers to be from the poorest districts in the state of Maharashtra, with the other half came from the poorest parts of wider India. Many came as victims of drought, famine, earthquakes or religious persecution or riots. Others came as a result of a complete breakdown in their livelihoods where they had been living. Pavement dwellers migrate to Mumbai hoping to capitalize on the wealth and job opportunities that the city offers. They are typically forward-thinking, seeking to build lives in the city that give the next generation better opportunities than would have been possible in the village.\n\nIn 1985, the Supreme Court of India granted the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai authority to demolish household structures on the sidewalks of Mumbai. With the aid of SPARC, the rights of Mumbai's pavement dwellers were recognised and coexistence was successfully negotiated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1653010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1653010", "title": "Plantation economy", "text": "Plantation economy\n\nA plantation economy is an economy based on agricultural mass production, usually of a few commodity crops grown on large farms called plantations. Plantation economies rely on the export of cash crops as a source of income. Prominent crops included cotton, rubber, sugar cane, tobacco, figs, rice, kapok, sisal, and species in the genus \"Indigofera\", used to produce indigo dye.\n\nThe longer a crop's harvest period, the more efficient plantations become. Economies of scale are also achieved when the distance to market is long. Plantation crops usually need processing immediately after harvesting. Sugarcane, tea, sisal, and palm oil are most suited to plantations, while coconuts, rubber, and cotton are suitable to a lesser extent.\n\nIn the Thirteen Colonies, plantations were concentrated in the South. These colonies included Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. They had good soil and almost year-round growing seasons, ideal for crops such as rice and tobacco. The existence of many waterways in the region made transportation easier. Each colony specialized in one or two crops, with Virginia standing out in tobacco production\n\nPlanters embraced the use of slaves mainly because indentured labor became expensive. Some indentured servants were also leaving to start their own farms as land was widely available. Colonists tried to use Native Americans for labor, but they were susceptible to European diseases and died in large numbers. The plantation owners then turned to enslaved Africans for labor. In 1665, there were fewer than 500 Africans in Virginia but by 1750, 85 percent of the 235,000 slaves lived in the Southern colonies, Virginia included. Africans made up 40 percent of the South’s population.\n\nAccording to the 1840 United States Census, one out of every four families in Virginia owned slaves. There were over 100 plantation owners who owned over 100 slaves. The number of slaves in the 15 States was just shy of 4 million in a total population 12.4 million and the percentage was 32% of the population. \n\n\nFewer than one-third of Southern families owned slaves at the peak of slavery prior to the Civil War. In Mississippi and South Carolina the figure approached one half. The total number of slave owners was 385,000 (including, in Louisiana, some free African Americans), amounting to approximately 3.8% of the Southern and Border states population.\nOn a plantation with more than 100 slaves, the capital value of the slaves was greater than the capital value of the land and farming implements.\n\nEnslaved Africans were brought from Africa by the English and other European powers, for their Western Hemisphere colonies. They were shipped from ports in West Africa to the New World. The journey from Africa across the Atlantic Ocean was called \"the middle passage\", and was one of the three legs which comprised the [trade] among the continents of Europe, the Americas, and Africa.\n\nBy some estimates, it is said that some ten million Africans were brought to the Americas. Only about 6% ended up in the North American colonies, while the majority were taken to the Caribbean colonies and South America. A reason many did not make it to the colonies at all was disease and illness. Underneath the slave ship's decks, Africans were held chest-to-chest and could not do much moving. There was waste and urine throughout the hold; this caused the captives to get sick and to die from illnesses that could not be cured.\n\nAs the plantation economy expanded, the slave trade grew to meet the growing demand for labor.\n\nWestern Europe was the final destination for the plantation produce. At this time, Europe was starting to industrialize, and it needed a lot of materials to manufacture goods. Being the power center of the world at the time, they exploited the New World and Africa to industrialize. Africa supplied slaves for the plantations; the New World produced raw material for industries in Europe. Manufactured goods, of higher value, were then sold both to Africa and the New World. The system was largely run by European merchants\n\nSugar has a long history as a plantation crop. Cultivation of sugar had to follow a precise scientific system to profit from the production. Sugar plantations everywhere were disproportionate consumers of labor, often enslaved, because of the high mortality of the plantation laborers. In Brazil, plantations were called \"casas grandes\" and suffered from similar issues.\n\nThe slaves working the sugar plantation were caught in an unceasing rhythm of arduous labor year after year. Sugarcane is harvested about 18 months after planting and the plantations usually divided their land for efficiency. One plot was lying fallow, one plot was growing cane, and the final plot was being harvested. During the December–May rainy season, slaves planted, fertilized with animal dung, and weeded. From January to June, they harvested the cane by chopping the plants off close to the ground, stripping the leaves and then cutting them into shorter strips to be bundled off to be sent to the sugar cane mill.\n\nIn the mill, the cane was crushed using a three-roller mill. The juice from the crushing of the cane was then boiled or clarified until it crystallized into sugar. Some plantations also went a step further and distilled the molasses, the liquid left after the sugar is boiled or clarified, to make rum. The sugar was then shipped back to Europe. For the slave laborer, the routine started all over again.\n\nWith the 19th-century abolition of slavery, plantations continued to grow sugar cane, but sugar beets, which can be grown in temperate climates, increased their share of the sugar market.\n\nIndigofera was a major crop cultivated during the 18th century, in Venezuela, Guatemala—and Haiti until the slave rebellion against France that left them embargoed by Europe and India in the 19th and 20th centuries. The indigo crop was grown for making blue indigo dye in the pre-industrial age.\n\nMahatma Gandhi's investigation of indigo workers' claims of exploitation led to the passage of the Champaran Agrarian Bill in 1917 by the British colonial government.\n\nThe currency for the Georgia colony was the Pound sterling, a gold coin or very light green bill with the national pound symbol. The currency is worth about one and one half U.S. dollar.\n\nThe currency for the New York was at the time of the colony the New York pound. This currency was primarily used and made in the 1700s.\n\n"}
{"id": "6438392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6438392", "title": "Principalía", "text": "Principalía\n\nThe Principalía or noble class was the ruling and usually educated upper class in the \"pueblos\" of the Spanish Philippines, comprising the gobernadorcillo (who had functions similar to a town mayor), and the \"cabezas de barangay\" (heads of the barangays) who governed the districts. The distinction or status of being part of the principalía was a hereditary right. However, it could also be acquired, as attested by the royal decree of (signed in the name of Queen Isabella II by the Minister of the Colonies, José de la Concha).\n\nThis distinguished upper class was exempted from tribute (tax) to the Spanish crown during the colonial period. Colonial documents would refer to them as \"de privilegio\" \"y\" \"gratis\", in contrast to those who pay tribute (\"de pago\"). It was the true aristocracy and the true nobility of colonial Philippines, which could be roughly comparable to the patrician class of ancient Rome. The principales (members of the principalía) traced their origin from the precolonial royal and noble class of Datu of the established kingdoms, rajahnates, confederacies, and principalities, as well as the lordships of the smaller ancient social units called \"barangays\" in Visayas, Luzon, and Mindanao. The members of this class enjoyed exclusive privileges: only the members of the principalía were allowed to vote, be elected to public office, and be addressed by the title: \"Don\" or \"Doña\". The use of the honorific addresses \"Don\" and \"Doña\" was strictly limited to what many documents during the colonial period would refer to as \"vecinas y vecinos distinguidos\".\n\nFor the most part, the social privileges of the nobles were freely acknowledged as befitting their greater social responsibilities. The \"gobernadorcillo\" during that period received a nominal salary and was not provided government funds for public services. In fact more often the \"gobernadorcillo\" had to maintain government of his municipality by looking after the post office and the jailhouse, and by managing public infrastructure, using personal resources.\n\nPrincipales also provided assistance to parishes by helping in the construction of church buildings, and in the pastoral and religious activities of the priests who, being usually among the few Spaniards in most colonial towns, had success in winning the goodwill of the natives. More often, the clergy were the sole representatives of Spain in many parts of the archipelago. Under the \"Patronato Real\" of the Spanish crown, these Spanish churchmen were also the king's effective ambassadors, and promoters of the realm.\n\nWith the end of Spanish sovereignty over the Philippines after the Spanish–American War in 1898 and the introduction of a democratic, republican system during the American Occupation, the \"Principalía\" and their descendants lost their legal authority and social privileges. Many were, however, able to integrate into the new socio-political structure, retaining some degree of influence and power.\n\nFrom the beginning of the colonial period in the Philippine, the Spanish government built on the traditional preconquest sociopolitical organization of the barangay and coopted the traditional indigenous princes and their nobles, thereby ruling indirectly. The \"barangays\" in some coastal places in Panay, Manila, Cebu, Jolo, and Butuan, with cosmopolitan cultures and trade relations with other countries in Asia, were already established principalities (Kinadatuan) before the coming of the Spaniards. In other regions, even though the majority of these \"barangays\" were not large settlements, yet they had organized societies dominated by the same type of recognized aristocracy and lordships (with birthright claim to allegiance from followers), as those found in more established, richer and more developed principalities. The aristocratic group in these precolonial societies was called the datu class. Its members were presumably the descendants of the first settlers on the land or, in the case of later arrivals, of those who were datus at the time of migration or conquest.\n\nThe duty of the datus was to rule and govern their subjects and followers, and to assist them in their interests and necessities. What the chiefs received from their followers was: to be held by them in great veneration and respect; and they were served in their wars and voyages, and in their tilling, sowing, fishing, and the building of their houses. The natives attended to these duties very promptly, whenever summoned by their chief. They also paid their chief tribute (which they called \"buwis\") in varying quantities, in the crops that they gathered. The descendants of such chiefs, and their relatives, even though they did not inherit the Lordship, were held in the same respect and consideration, and were all regarded as nobles and as persons exempt from the services rendered by the others, or the plebeians (\"timawas\"). The same right of nobility and chieftainship was preserved for the women, just as for the men.\n\nSome of these principalities and lordships have remained, even until the present, in unHispanicized and mostly Lumad and Muslim parts of the Philippines, in some regions of Mindanao.\n\nIn more developed \"barangays\" in Visayas, e.g., Panay, Bohol and Cebu (which were never conquered by Spain but were incorporated into the Spanish sphere of influence as vassals by means of pacts, peace treaties, and reciprocal alliances), the datu class was at the top of a divinely sanctioned and stable social order in a territorial jurisdiction called in the local languages as \"Sakop\" or \"Kinadatuan\" (\"Kadatuan\" in ancient Malay; \"Kedaton\" in Javanese; and Kedatuan in many parts of modern Southeast Asia), which is elsewhere commonly referred to also as \"barangay\". This social order was divided into three classes. The \"Kadatuan\", which is also called Tumao (members of the Visayan datu class), were compared by the Boxer Codex to the titled lords (\"Señores de titulo\") in Spain. As \"Agalon\" or \"Amo\" (lords), the datus enjoyed an ascribed right to respect, obedience, and support from their \"oripun\" (commoner) or followers belonging to the third order. These datus had acquired rights to the same advantages from their legal \"timawa\" or vassals (second order), who bind themselves to the datu as his seafaring warriors. \"Timawas\" paid no tribute, and rendered no agricultural labor. They had a portion of the datu's blood in their veins. The Boxer Codex calls these \"timawas\" knights and hidalgos. The Spanish conquistador, Miguel de Loarca, described them as \"free men, neither chiefs nor slaves\". In the late 1600s, the Spanish Jesuit priest Fr. Francisco Ignatio Alcina, classified them as \"the third rank of nobility\" (nobleza).\n\nTo maintain purity of bloodline, datus marry only among their kind, often seeking high ranking brides in other \"barangays\", abducting them, or contracting brideprices in gold, slaves and jewelry. Meanwhile, the datus kept their marriageable daughters secluded for protection and prestige. These wellguarded and protected highborn women were called \"binokot\", the datus of pure descent (four generations) were called \"potli nga datu\" or \"lubus nga datu\", while a woman of noble lineage (especially the elderly) was addressed by the Visayans (of Panay) as \"uray\" (meaning: pure as gold), e.g., \"uray Hilway\".\n\nThe different type of culture prevalent in Luzon gave a less stable and more complex social structure to the precolonial Tagalog barangays of Manila, Pampanga and Laguna. Enjoying a more extensive commence than those in Visayas, having the influence of Bornean political contacts, and engaging in farming wet rice for a living, the Tagalogs were described by the Spanish Augustinian Friar Martin de Rada as more traders than warriors.\n\nThe more complex social structure of the Tagalogs was less stable during the arrival of the Spaniards because it was still in a process of differentiating. The Jesuit priest Francisco Colin made an attempt to give an approximate comparison of it with the Visayan social structure in the middle of the seventeenth century. The term datu or \"lakan\", or \"apo\" refers to the chief, but the noble class to which the datu belonged or could come from was the \"maginoo\" class. One may be born a \"maginoo\", but he could become a datu by personal achievement. In the Visayas, if the datu had the personality and economic means, he could retain and restrain competing peers, relatives, and offspring. The term \"timawa\" came into use in the social structure of the Tagalogs within just twenty years after the coming of the Spaniards. The term, however, was being applied to former \"alipin\" (third class) who have escaped bondage by payment, favor, or flight. The Tagalog \"timawas\" did not have the military prominence of the Visayan \"timawa\". The warrior class in the Tagalog society was present only in Laguna, and they were called the \"maharlika\" class. At the early part of the Spanish regime, the number of their members who were coming to rent land from their datus was increasing.\n\nUnlike the Visayan datus, the lakans and apos of Luzon could call all non\"maginoo\" subjects to work in the datu's fields or do all sorts of other personal labor. In the Visayas, only the \"oripuns\" were obliged to do that, and to pay tribute besides. The Tagalog who works in the datu's field did not pay him tribute, and could transfer their allegiance to another \"datu\". The Visayan \"timawa\" neither paid tribute nor performed agricultural labor. In a sense, they were truly aristocrats. The Tagalog \"maharlika\" did not only work in his datu’s field, but could also be required to pay his own rent. Thus, all non\"maginoo\" formed a common economic class in some sense, though this class had no designation.\n\nThe civilization of the precolonial societies in the Visayas, northern Mindanao, and Luzon were largely influenced by Hindu and Buddhist cultures. As such, the datus who ruled these principalities (such as Butuan, Cebu, Panay, Mindoro and Manila) also shared the many customs of royalties and nobles in southeast Asian territories (with Hindu and Buddhist cultures), especially in the way they used to dress and adorn themselves with gold and silk. The Boxer Codex bears testimony to this fact. The measure of the prince's possession of gold and slaves was proportionate to his greatness and nobility. The first westerners who came to the archipelago observed that there was hardly any \"Indian\" who did not possess chains and other articles of gold.\n\nWhen the Spaniards expanded their dominion to the Americas and, later on, to the East Indies, they encountered different cultures that existed in these territories, which possessed different social structures (more or less complex), where and as a common trait among them, there was a ruling class that held power and determined the destinies of peoples and territories under its control. These elites were those that the Spaniards discovered and conquered in the New World. It was these Spanish conquerors, using European terminology, who correlated the identity of classes of the pre-Hispanic elites, alongside with the royalty or with the nobility of Europe at the time, according to appropriate categories, e.g., emperor, king, etc. The thoughts of the more notable among them give useful insights on how the first European settlers regarded the rulers of Indians in the New World. Fray Bartolome de las Casas, for example, would argue that indigenous nobles were \"(...) as Princes and Infantes like those of Castile.\" Juan de Matienzo, during his rule of Peru, said that the \"Caciques, curacas and principales are the native princes of the Indians.\" In the Lexicon of Fray Domingo de Santo Tomás and Diego González Holguín, as well as in the work of Ludovico Bertonio, several entries included were devoted to identify the pre-Hispanic society, comparing their old titles to those of their counterpart in the Iberian peninsula.\n\nThe same approach to the local society in the East Indies was used by the Spaniards.\n\nThe \"principalía\" was the first estate of the four echelons of Filipino society at the time of contact with Europeans, as described by Fr. Juan de Plasencia, a pioneer Franciscan missionary in the Philippines. Loarca and the Canon Lawyer Antonio de Morga, who classified society into three estates (ruler, ruled, slave), also affirmed the preeminence of the principales. All members of this first estate (the datu class) were principales, whether they were actually occupying positions to rule, or not. The Real Academia Española defines \"Principal\" as a \"person or thing that holds first place in value or importance, and is given precedence and preference before others\". This Spanish term best describes the first estate of the society in the archipelago, which the Europeans came in contact with. San Buenaventura's 1613 Dictionary of the Tagalog language defines three terms that clarify the concept of this \"principalía\":\n\nThe Spanish term \"Señor\" (lord) is equated with all these three terms, which are distinguished from the \"nouveau riche\" imitators scornfully called \"maygintao\" (man with gold or hidalgo by wealth, and not by lineage). The first estate was the class that constituted a birthright aristocracy with claims to respect, obedience, and support from those of subordinate status.\n\nAfter conquering Manila and making it the capital of the colonial government in 1571, Miguel Lopez de Legaspi noted that aside from the rulers of Cebu and of the capital, the other principales existing in the Archipelago were either heads or Datus of the barangays allied as nations; or tyrants, who were respected only by the law of the strongest. From this system of the law of the strongest sprung intestinal wars, with which certain dominions annihilate one another. Attentive to these existing systems of government, without stripping these ancient sovereigns of their legitimate rights, Legaspi demanded from these local rulers vassalage to the Spanish Crown. Yet, on 11 June 1594, shortly before confirming Legaspi's erection of Manila as a city on 24 June of the same year, King Philip II issued a Royal Decree institutionalizing the recognition of the rights and privileges of the local ruling class of the Philippines, which was later included in the codification of the \"Recopilación de las leyes de los reynos de Las Indias\".\n\nIn Book VI, Title VII (dedicated to the caciques) of the \"Recopilación de las leyes de los reynos de Las Indias\", a.k.a. the \"Laws of the Indies\", there are three very interesting laws insofar as they determined the role that the caciques were to play in the Indian new social order under the colonial rule. With these laws, the Spanish Crown officially recognized the rights (of pre-Hispanic origin) of these principales. Specifically, Laws 1, 2 (dedicated to American territories) and; Law 16, instituted by Philip II, on June 11, 1594 (which is similar to the previous two), with the main purpose of assuring that the principales of the Philippines would be treated well and be entrusted with some government charge. Likewise, this provision extended to the Filipino caciques all policies concerning the Indian caciques under the Spanish rule.\n\nThus, in order to implement a system of indirect rule in the Philippines, King Philip II ordered, through this law of , that the honors and privileges of governing, which were previously enjoyed by the local royalty and nobility in formerly sovereign principalities (who later accepted the catholic faith and became subject to him), should be retained and protected. He also ordered the Spanish governors in the Philippines to treat these native nobles well. The king further ordered that the natives should pay to these nobles the same respect that the inhabitants accorded to their local Lords before the conquest, without prejudice to the things that pertain to the king himself or to the encomenderos.\n\nThe royal decree says: \"It is not right that the Indian chiefs of Filipinas be in a worse condition after conversion; rather they should have such treatment that would gain their affection and keep them loyal, so that with the spiritual blessings that God has communicated to them by calling them to His true knowledge, the temporal blessings may be added, and they may live contentedly and comfortably. Therefore, we order the governors of those islands to show them good treatment and entrust them, in our name, with the government of the Indians, of whom they were formerly lords. In all else the governors shall see that the chiefs are benefited justly, and the Indians shall pay them something as a recognition, as they did during the period of their paganism, provided this is without prejudice to the tributes that are to be paid us, or to that which pertains to their encomenderos.\"\n\nThrough this law, the local Filipino nobles (under the supervision of the Spanish colonial officials) became encomenderos (trustees) also of the King of Spain, who ruled the country indirectly through these nobles. Corollary to this provision, all existing doctrines and laws regarding the Indian caciques were extended to Filipino principales. Their domains became selfruled tributary \"barangays\" of the Spanish Empire. \n\nThe system of indirect government helped in the pacification of the rural areas, and institutionalized the rule and role of an upper class, referred to as the \"principalía\" or the \"principales\", until the fall of the Spanish regime in the Philippines in 1898.\n\nThe Spanish dominion brought serious modifications to the life and economy of the indigenous society. The shift of emphasis to agriculture marginalized, weakened, and deprived the hildalgolike warriors of their significance in the \"barangays\", especially in the traderaiding societies in the Visayas (which needed the Vikinglike services of the \"timawas\"). By the 1580s, many of these noblemen found themselves reduced to leasing land from their datus. Their military functions were eclipsed by farming. Whatever remained would quickly be disoriented, deflected, and destroyed by the superior military power of Spain. \n\nBy the end of the 16th century, any claim to Filipino royalty, nobility or hidalguía had disappeared into a homogenized, Hispanicized and Christianized nobility – the principalía. This remnant of the precolonial royal and noble families continued to rule their traditional domain until the end of the Spanish regime. However, there were cases when succession in leadership was also done through election of new leaders (cabezas de barangay), especially in provinces near the Manila where the ancient ruling families lost their prestige and role. It appears that proximity to the seat of colonial Government diminished their power and significance. In distant territories, where the central authority had less control and where order could be maintained without using coercive measures, hereditary succession was still enforced, until Spain lost the archipelago to the Americans. These distant territories remained patriarchal societies, where people retained great respect for the principalía.\n\nThe principalía was larger and more influential than the preconquest indigenous nobility. It helped create and perpetuate an oligarchic system in the Spanish colony for more than three hundred years,\nserving as a link between the Spanish authorities and the local inhabitants. \n\nThe Spanish colonial government's prohibition for foreigners to own land in the Philippines contributed to the evolution of this form of oligarchy. In some provinces of the Philippines, many Spaniards and foreign merchants intermarried with the rich and landed MalayoPolynesian local nobilities. From these unions, a new cultural group was formed, the mestizo class. Their descendants emerged later to become an influential part of the government, and of the Principalía.\n\nThe increase of population in the Archipelago, as well as the growing presence of Chinese and Mestizos also brought about social changes that necessitated the creation of new members of the principalía for these sectors of Filipino colonial society. In this regard, pertinent laws were promulgated, such as the above-mentioned royal decree issued on (signed in the name of Queen Isabella II by the Minister of the Colonies, José de la Concha), which indicate certain conditions for promotion to the principalía class, among others, the capacity to speak the Castilian language.\n\nThe emergence of the mestizo class was a social phenomenon not localized in the Philippines, but was also very much present in the American continent.\nOn 22 March 1697, Charles II of Spain issued a Royal Cedula, related to this phenomenon. The Cedula gave distinctions to classes of persons in the social structure of the Crown Colonies, and defined the rights and privileges of colonial functionaries. In doing so, the Spanish Monarch touched another aspect of the colonial society, i.e., the status of indigenous nobles, extending to these indigenous nobles, as well as to their descendants, the preeminence and honors customarily attributed to the Hidalgos of Castile. The Royal Cedula stipulates:\n\n\"“Bearing in mind the laws and orders issued by my Progenies, Their Majesties the Kings, and by myself, I order the good treatment, assistance, protection and defense of the native Indians of America, that they may be taken cared of, maintained, privileged and honored like all other vassals of my Crown and that, in the course of time, the trial and use of them stops. I feel that its timely implementation is very suitable for public good, for the benefit of the Indians and for the service of God and mine. That, consequently, with respect to the Indian mestizos, the Archbishops and Bishops of the Indias are charged by Article 7, Title VII, Book I of the Laws of the Indies, for ordaining priests, being attentive to the qualities and circumstances present, and if some mestizas ask to be religious, they (Bishops) shall give support to those whom they admit in monasteries and for vows. But in particular, with regard to the requirements for Indians in order to accede to ecclesiastical or secular, governmental, political and military positions, which all require purity of blood and, by its Statute, the condition of nobility, there is distinction between the Indians and mestizos, inasmuch as there is between the [1] descendants of the notable Indians called caciques, and [2] those who are issues of less notable Indian tributaries, who in their pagan state acknowledged vassalage. It is deemed that all preeminence and honors, customarily conferred on the Hijosdalgos of Castile, are to be attributed to the first and to their descendants, both ecclesiastical and secular; and that they can participate in any communities which, by their statutes require nobility; for it is established that these, in their heathenism, were nobles to whom their subordinates acknowledged vassalage and to whom tributes were paid. Such kind of nobility is still retained and acknowledged, keeping these as well as their privileges wherever possible, as recognized and declared by the whole section on the caciques, which is Title VII, Book VI of the Laws of the Indies, wherein for the sake of distinction, the subordinate Indians were placed under (these noble’s) dominion called «cacicazgo», transmissible from elder to elder, to their posteriority…”\" \n\nThe Royal Cedula was enforced in the Philippines and benefited many indigenous nobles. It can be seen very clearly and irrefutably that, during the colonial period, indigenous chiefs were equated with the Spanish Hidalgos, and the most resounding proof of the application of this comparison is the General Military Archive in Segovia, where the qualifications of “Nobility” (found in the Service Records) are attributed to those Filipinos who were admitted to the Spanish Military Academies and whose ancestors were caciques, encomenderos, notable Tagalogs, chieftains, governors or those who held positions in the municipal administration or government in all different regions of the large islands of the Archipelago, or of the many small islands of which it is composed. In the context of the ancient tradition and norms of Castilian nobililty, all descendants of a noble are considered noble, regardless of fortune.\n\nAt the \"Real Academia de la Historia\", there is also a substantial amount of records giving reference to the Philippine Islands, and while most part corresponds to the history of these islands, the \"Academia\" did not exclude among its documents the presence of many genealogical records. The archives of the \"Academia\" and its royal stamp recognized the appointments of hundreds of natives of the Philippines who, by virtue of their social position, occupied posts in the administration of the territories and were classified as \"Nobles\". The presence of these notables demonstrates the cultural concern of Spain in those Islands to prepare the natives and the collaboration of these in the government of the Archipelago. This aspect of Spanish rule in the Philippines appears much more strongly implemented than in the Americas. Hence in the Philippines, the local Nobility, by reason of charge accorded to their social class, acquired greater importance than in the Indies of the New World.\n\nWith the recognition of the Spanish monarchs came the privilege of being addressed as Don or Doña. - a mark of esteem and distinction in Europe reserved for a person of noble or royal status during the colonial period. Other honors and high regard were also accorded to the Christianized Datus by the Spanish Empire. For example, the Gobernadorcillos (elected leader of the Cabezas de Barangay or the Christianized Datus) and Filipino officials of justice received the greatest consideration from the Spanish Crown officials. The colonial officials were under obligation to show them the honor corresponding to their respective duties. They were allowed to sit in the houses of the Spanish Provincial Governors, and in any other places. They were not left to remain standing. It was not permitted for Spanish Parish Priests to treat these Filipino nobles with less consideration.\n\nThe Gobernadorcillos exercised the command of the towns. They were Port Captains in coastal towns. They also had the rights and powers to elect assistants and several lieutenants and \"alguaciles\", proportionate in number to the inhabitants of the town.\n\nOn the day on which the gobernadorcillo would take on government duties, his town would hold a grand celebration. A festive banquet would be offered in the municipal or city hall where he would occupy a seat, adorned by the coat of arms of Spain and with fanciful designs, if his social footing was of a respectable antiquity.\n\nOn holy days the town officials would go to the church, together in one group. The principalía and \"cuadrilleros\" (police patrol or assistance) formed two lines in front of the Gobernadorcillo. They would be preceded by a band playing the music as they process towards the church, where the Gobernadorcillo would occupy a seat in precedence among those of the chiefs or \"cabezas de barangay\", who had benches of honor. After the mass, they would usually go to the parish rectory to pay their respects to the parish priest. Then, they would return to the tribunal (municipal hall or city hall) in the same order, and still accompanied by the band playing a loud double quick march called \"paso doble\".\n\nThe gobernadorcillo was always accompanied by an \"alguacil\" or \"policia\" (police officer) whenever he went about the streets of his town.\n\nAt the later part of the Spanish period, this class of elite Christian landowners started to adopt a characteristic style of dress and carry regalia. They wore a distinctive type of salakot, a Philippine headdress commonly used in the archipelago since the precolonial period. Instead of the usual headgear made of rattan, of reeds called \"Nitó\", or of various shells such as capiz shells, which common Filipinos would wear, the principales would use more prized materials like tortoise shell. The special \"salakot\" of the ruling upper class was often adorned with ornate capping spike crafted in metals of value like silver, or, at times, gold. This headgear was usually embossed also with precious metals and sometimes decorated with silver coins or pendants that hung around the rim.\n\nIt was mentioned earlier that the royalties and nobilities of the Pre-colonial societies in the Visayas, Northern Mindanao, and Luzon (Cebu, Bohol Panay, Mindoro and Manila) also shared the many customs of royalties and nobles in Southeast Asian territories (with Hindu and Buddhist cultures), especially in the generous use of gold and silk in their costumes, as the Boxer Codex demonstrate. The measure of the prince's possession of gold and slaves was proportionate to his greatness and nobility. When the Spaniards reached the shores of the Archipelago, they observed that there was hardly any \"Indian\" who did not possess chains and other articles of gold. \n\nHowever, this way of dressing was slowly changed as colonial power took firmer grips of the local nobilities and finally ruled the Islands. By the middle of the 19th century, the Principalía's usual attire was black jacket, European trousers, salakot and colored (velvet) slippers. Many would even wear varnished shoes, such as high quality leather shoes. Their shirt was worn outside the trousers. Some sources say that the Spaniards did not allow the native Filipinos to tuck their shirts under their waistbands, nor were they allowed to have any pockets. It was said that the intention of the colonizers was to remind the natives that they remain \"indios\" regardless of the wealth and power they attain. It was a way for discriminating the natives from their Spanish overlords. The locals also used native fabrics of transparent appearance. It is believed that transparent, sheer fabric were mainly for discouraging the Indios from hiding any weapons under their shirts. However, the native nobles did not wish to be outdone in the appearance of their apparel. And so, they richly embroidered their shirts with somewhat baroque designs on delicate Piña fabric. This manner of sporting what originally was a European attire for men led the way to the development of the Barong, which later became the national costume for Filipino men.\n\nDistinctive staffs of office were associated with the Filipino ruling class. The Gobernadorcillo would carry a tassled cane (baston) decorated with precious metals, while his lieutenants would use some kind of wands referred to as \"Vara (rama)\". On occasions and ceremonies of greater solemnity, they would dress formally in frock coat and high crowned hat.\n\nAlthough the principalía had many privileges, there were limitations to how much power they were entitled to under Spanish rule. A member of the principalía could never become the GovernorGeneral (\"Gobernador y Capitán General\"), nor could he become the provincial governor (\"alcalde mayor\").Hypothetically, a member of the principalía could obtain the position of provincial governor if, for example, a noblewoman of the principalía married a Spanish man born in the Philippines (an Insular ) of an elevated social rank. In which case her children would be classified as white (or \"blanco\"). However, this did not necessarily give a guarantee that her sons would obtain the position of provincial governor. Being mestizos was not an assurance that they would be loyal enough to the Spanish crown. Such unquestionable allegiance was necessary for the colonizers in retaining control of the archipelago. \n\nThe children born of the union between the principales and the insulares, or better still, the peninsulares (a Spanish person born in Spain) are neither assured access to the highest position of power in the colony. Flexibility is known to have occurred in some cases, including that of Marcelo Azcárraga Palmero who even became \"interim\" Prime Minister of Spain on August 8, 1897 until October 4 of that same year. Azcárraga also went on to become Prime Minister of Spain again in two more separate terms of office. In 1904, he was granted Knighthood in the very exclusive Spanish chilvalric Order of the Golden Fleece — the only mestizo recipient of this prestigious award.\nIn the archipelago, however, most often ethnic segregation did put a stop to social mobility, even for members of the principalía – a thing that is normally expected in a colonial rule. It was not also common for principales to be too ambitious so as to pursue very strong desire for obtaining the office of Governor-General. For most part, it appears that the local nobles were inclined to be preoccupied with matters concerning their barangays and towns. \n\nThe town mayors received an annual salary of 24 pesos, which was nothing in comparison to the provincial governor's 1,600 pesos and the GovernorGeneral's 40,000 pesos. Even though the gobernadorcillo's salary was not subject to tax, it was not enough to carry out all the required duties expected of such a position. This explains why among the principales, those who had more wealth were likely to be elected to the office of gobernadorcillo (municipal governor).\n\nPrincipales tend to marry those who belong to their class, to maintain wealth and power. However, unlike most European royalties who marry their close relatives, e.g. first cousins, for this purpose, Filipino nobles abhorred incestuous unions. In some cases, members of the principalia married wealthy and nonnoble Chinese (Sangley) merchants, who made their fortune in the colony. Principales born of these unions had possibilities to be elected gobernadorcillo by their peers.\n\nWealth was not the only basis for intermarriage between the principales and foreigners, which were commonly prearranged by parents of the bride and groom. Neither did having a Spaniard as one of the parents of a child ennobles him. In a traditionally conservative Catholic environment with Christian mores and norms strictly imposed under the tutelage and prying eyes of Spanish friars, marriage to a divorcée or secondhand spouse (locally referred to as \"tirá ng ibá\", literally \"others' leftovers\") was scornfully disdained by Filipino aristocrats. Virgin brides were a must for the principalía, as well as for the Filipinos in general.\n\nChildren who were born outside of marriage, even of Spaniards, were not accepted in the circle of principales. These were severely ostracized in the conservative colonial society and were pejoratively called an \"anák sa labás\", i.e., \"child from outside\" (\"viz.,\" outside marriage), a stigma that still remains part of the contemporary social mores.\n\nDuring the last years of the regime, there were efforts to push for a representation of the archipelago in the Spanish Cortes among a good number of principales. This move was prevalent especially among those who have studied in Spain and other parts of Europe (Ilustrados). That initiative, however, was met with snobbery by the colonizers, who denied the natives of equal treatment, in any way possible.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century, civil unrest, which was fuelled by the arrogance, racial discrimination, hypocrisy, and abuses of western colonizers, occurred more frequently. This situation was exposed by the writer and leader of the Propaganda Movement, José Rizal, in his two novels: \"Noli Me Tángere\", and \"El Filibusterismo\" (dedicated to the three Filipino Catholic priests, who were executed on 17 February 1872 by Spanish colonial authorities, on charges of subversion arising from the 1872 Cavite mutiny). Because of this growing unrest that turned into an irreversible revolution, the position of provincial governor became awarded more and more often to the peninsulares. In the ecclesiastical sector, a decree was made, stating there were to be no further appointments of Filipinos as parish priests. Nonetheless, nothing that Spain could do was able to retain control over the once submissive subjects, who felt betrayed, among whom were many principales.\n\nThe recognition of the rights and privileges of the Filipino Principalía as equivalent to those of the Hijosdalgos of Castile appears to facilitate entrance of Filipino nobles into institutions under the Spanish Crown, either civil or religious, which required proofs of nobility. However, such approximation may not be entirely correct since in reality, although the principales were vassals of the Spanish Crown, their rights as sovereign in their former dominions were guaranteed by the Laws of the Indies, more particularly the Royal Decree of Philip II of 11 June 1594, which Charles II confirmed for the purpose stated above, in order to satisfy the requirements of the existing laws in the Peninsula. \n\nFrom the beginning of the Spanish colonial period, the conquistador Miguel Lopez de Legaspi retained the hereditary rights of the local ancient sovereigns of the Archipelago who vowed allegiance to the Spanish Crown. Many of them accepted the Catholic religion and became Spanish allies at this time. He only demanded from these local rulers vassalage to the Spanish Crown, replacing the similar overlordship, which previously existed in a few cases, e.g., Sultanate of Brunei's overlordship of the Kingdom of Maynila. Other independent polities, which were not vassals to other States, e.g., Confederation of Madja-as and the Rajahnate of Cebu, were \"de facto\" Protectorates/Suzerainties having had alliances with the Spanish Crown before the Kingdom took total control of most parts of the Archipelago. \n\nA question remains after the cessession of Spanish rule in the Philippines regarding any remaining rank equivalency of Filipino Principalía. While no longer vassals of the Spanish crown, they remain unable to exercise their previous sovereignty within the current democratic society in the Philippines. A logical conclusion would be the retention or re-institution of their ancient Royal and noble titles such as Datu, Lakan, or Apo. These historical titles of local nobles of ancient domains are protected by the Indigenous Peoples' Rights Act of 1997, and by related international legislation, such as the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Retaining the Hidalguía of Castile (their former protector state), as subsidiary title without prejudice to the hispanized Filipino nobles' ancestral titles, is also a logical consequence of the above-mentioned recognition by Charles II of Spain. As guaranteed by this Spanish Monarch's Royal Decree, the ancient nobility of the casiques within his realm (which includes the Filipino Principales) \"is still retained and acknowledged\". \n\nBesides, the principales retained many of the ordinary obligations of local rulers as manifested in constructing local infrastructures and in maintaining the government offices without funds from Spain. Expenditures of the local government came from the private and personal resources of the principales. These were not taxes that citizens were obliged to pay as tributes required by their Spanish Crown from its subjects. In many ways, the principales retained much of the responsibilities, powers and obligations of the pre-colonial Datus — their predecessors, except for the right to organize their own armed forces. Only the right of Gobernadorcillos to appoint alguacils and \"cuadrilleros\" (police patrol or assistance) seem to point out to some kind of vestige of this pre-colonial sign of the Datu's coercive power and responsibility to defend his domain.\n\nLike deposed royal families elsewhere in the world, which continue to claim hereditary rights as pretenders to the former thrones of their ancestors, the descendants of the Principalía have similar \"de iure\" claims to the historical domains of their forebears.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1500296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1500296", "title": "Pukapukan language", "text": "Pukapukan language\n\nPukapukan is a Polynesian language that developed in isolation on the island of Pukapuka (Danger Island) in the northern group of the Cook Islands. As a \"Samoic Outlier\" language with strong links to western Polynesia, Pukapukan is not closely related to any other languages of the Cook Islands, but does manifest substantial borrowing from some East Polynesian source in antiquity. \nRecent research suggests that the languages of Pukapuka, Tokelau and Tuvalu group together as a cluster, and as such had significant influence on several of the Polynesian Outliers, such as Tikopia and Anuta, Pileni, Sikaiana (all in the Solomon Islands) and Takuu (off the coast of Bougainville, PNG). There is also evidence that Pukapuka had prehistoric contact with Micronesia, as there are quite a number of words in Pukapukan that appear to be borrowings from Kiribati (K. & M. Salisbury conference paper, 2013).\n\nPukapukan is also known as \"te leo Wale\" ('the language of Home') in reference to the name of the northern islet where the people live. The atoll population has declined from some 750 in the early 1990s to less than 500 since the cyclone in 2005. Literacy in the Pukapukan language was introduced in the school in the 1980s, resulting in an improvement in the quality of education on the atoll.\n\nThe language is spoken by over 4,000 people, the vast majority living in a number of migrant communities in New Zealand and Australia. A bilingual dictionary was started by the school teachers on the island and completed in Auckland within the Pukapukan community there (publication date 2018; URL https://www.pukapuka.world/dictionary/). An indepth study of the language has resulted in a reference grammar (Mary Salisbury, A Grammar of Pukapukan, University of Auckland, 2003 700pp.).\nThe most significant publication in the Pukapuka language will be the \"Puka Yā\" (Bible), with the New Testament expected to be completed for publishing in 2019.\n\nPukapukan, also known as Bukabukan, is the language spoken on the coral atoll of Pukapuka, located in the northern section of the Cook Islands (Beaglehole 1906-1965). Pukapukan shares minor intelligibility with its national language of Cook Islands Maori, and bears strong links to its neighboring Western Polynesian cultures specifically Samoa.\nThe island of Pukapuka is one of the most remote islands in the Cook Islands. There is evidence that humans have inhabited the atoll for about 2000 years, but it is not clear whether it has been continuously inhabited. It may be certain that a final settlement took place around 1300 AD from Western Polynesia. Local oral tradition records that huge waves generated by a severe cyclone washed over the island and killed most of the inhabitants except for 15–17 men, 2 women and a unknown number of children. Recent interpretation of genealogies suggests that this catastrophe occurred about 1700 AD. It was from these survivors that the island was repopulated. \n\nThe island was one of the first of the Cook Islands to be discovered by the Europeans, on Sunday 20 August 1595 by the Spanish Explorer Alvaro Mendana. \n\nThe language of Pukapukan is not only spoken on the island of Pukapuka but on the neighboring Cook Islands as well as New Zealand and Australia. Today the population of Pukapuka has diminished with only a few hundred native speakers. From a 2001 census there were only about 644 speakers on Pukapuka and its plantation island of Nassau. As of a 2011 census, there are now only 450 speakers due to a devastating cyclone that hit the island of Pukapuka in 2005. There are a total of 2,400 speakers worldwide, including those who live on Pukapuka and the 200 speakers on Rarotonga, the most populous island of the Cook Islands.\n\nPukapukan is an Austronesian language, (Ethnologue 2013). Though grouped with the Cook Islands the language shows influence from both Eastern and Western Polynesia.\n\nThere are 15 letters in the Pukapukan alphabet – five vowels and 10 consonants. The digraph 'ng' occurs in the place that G occupies in the English alphabet.\na, e, ng, i, k, l, m, n, o, p, t, u, v, w, y\n\nThe consonant phonemes in Pukapukan are: / p, t, k, v, w, y, m, n, ŋ, l / (Teingoa 1993).\n\nThe letters ‘y’ and ‘w’ are not in the Cook Islands Maori language but are additions to Pukapukan. The semivowel /w/ and the palatalised dental spirant /y/, in general, regularly reflect *f and *s, respectively. The ‘y’ sound in Pukapukan actually acts somewhat differently and is difficult for non native speakers to pronounce. It is pronounced like ‘th’ in English \"this, other\".\n\n\nThe vowels in Pukapukan are respectively /a/, /e/, /i/, /o/, and /u/. All vowels have two sounds, a long sound and a short sound. A vowel's length is indicated by writing a macron above each vowel.\n\n\nIn Pukapukan it is safe to say that every syllable ends with a vowel, every vowel is pronounced, and there are no diphthongal sounds.\n\nPukapukan uses the two distinctive word orders of Verb-Subject-Object and Verb-Object-Subject, although it is clear that VSO is used more commonly. Adjectives always follow their nouns in Pukapukan. \"Waka-\" is often used as a causative prefix in Austronesian languages, but in Pukapukan it has various functionalities. Due to Rarotongan influence ‘waka-’ is shortened to ‘aka-’, whereas ‘waka-’ is seen to be more formal (Teingoa 1993).\nNouns prefixed by waka- become verbs with similar meanings:\nAdjectives prefixed by waka become transitive verbs:\n\nSome verbs prefixed by waka- have specialized meanings that become somewhat difficult to predict from the base meaning.\n\nLike many other Polynesian languages, Pukapukan uses a lot of full and partial reduplication, some times to emphasize a word or to give it new meaning.\n\ntayi “one” \nlua “two” \ntolu “three” \nwa “four” \nlima “five” \nono “six”\nwitu “seven”\nvalu “eight”\niva “nine”\nkatoa/laungaulu “ten”\n\nPukapukan uses two different counting systems in the language; the ‘one unit’ and the ‘two unit’. Numeral classifiers are also used as prefixes for numbers over ten and different objects.\nThe ‘one unit’ uses its word for ten ‘laungaulu’ and adds the ‘one unit’ number (Teingoa 1993).\n\nFor numbers above nineteen the single unit numbers are used.\n\nThe ‘two unit’ is derived from the ‘one unit’.\n\nkāvatavata “noise made by snapping tongue”\nPōiva “name of a deified ancestor”\npulu “the calf of the leg”\nYāmatangi “prayer for a fair wind”\n\nPukapukan is not closely related to other Cook Islands languages but it does show substantial borrowing from Eastern Polynesian languages, such as Rarotongan. In fact, because there is no ‘r’ in Pukapukan ‘l’ takes its place in Rarotongan borrowings (Teingoa 1993).\n\nPukapukan uses many homophones in its vocabulary usually to give names to new words or items with similar origin meanings (Beaglehole 1906-1965).\n\nkapa \n\nata\n\nlulu\n\nThere is a limited list when it comes to the language of Pukapukan. Although, today speakers of the language, locals of Pukapuka, and especially teachers on the island are working to put together books and resources dedicated to the teaching and structure of Pukapukan. Collaboratively the locals of the island are also working to bring back to their own community since the devastating Cyclone Percy in 2005. Since 2005 it has taken nearly 6 years to rebuild their communities (Pasifika 2009). Currently there are a select number of manuscripts and dictionaries on the language of Pukapukan, but their culture is kept alive through music and dance collaborations across the pacific and websites like YouTube.\n\nAccording to Ethnologue Pukapukan is considered to be a threatened language and its “Intergenerational transmission is in the process of being broken, but the child-bearing generation can still use the language so it is possible that revitalization efforts could restore transmission of the language in the home (Ethnologue 2013). Speakers of Pukapukan especially children are multilingual in English and Cook Islands Maori, but English is rarely spoken outside of schools and many classes are actually taught in Pukapukan. Today, revitalization efforts of Pukapuka and its language is underway (Pasifika 2009).\n\nPer the Te Reo Maori Act, Pukapukan is deemed to be a form of Cook Islands Māori for legal purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38371078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38371078", "title": "Queen Adelaide Club", "text": "Queen Adelaide Club\n\nThe Queen Adelaide Club is an exclusive women's club, similar to a gentlemen's club, in the South Australian capital city of Adelaide. It is named for Queen Adelaide, after whom the city of Adelaide was named. Founded in 1909, the club was set up by women of the Adelaide establishment \"who wanted a social centre with a certain standard of living and were prepared to pay for it\".\n\nThe club is located at the corner of North Terrace and Stephens Place in the city-centre, a short distance east along North Terrace from its previously all-male equivalent, the Adelaide Club, established in 1864. \n\nUnlike the purpose-built Adelaide Club building, the Queen Adelaide Club occupies late 19th and early 20th Century buildings which had originally been residences and doctors' consulting rooms.\n\nWhen first established, the club offered residential accommodation, but no longer does so as the Adelaide Club now offers mixed accommodation.\n\nThe Queen Adelaide Club is affiliated with similar establishments within Australia and internationally where members can enjoy reciprocal rights.\n\nIn June 2014 Adelaide's \"Sunday Mail\" reported that the club has gained approval to knock down two of its three heritage-listed buildings, and build a 21-storey building. The first six (above ground) levels are planned to contain expanded club facilities, and the upper 14 levels are planned to contain pairs of 3-bedroom apartments. The third heritage-listed building, at the corner of Stephens Place and North Terrace, is to be retained as the main entrance to the ground floor of the tower, with an adjacent \"high end retail tenancy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181885", "title": "Ribaldry", "text": "Ribaldry\n\nRibaldry, or blue comedy, is humorous entertainment that ranges from bordering on indelicacy to gross indecency. It is also referred to as \"bawdiness\", \"gaminess\" or \"bawdy\".\n\nSex is presented in ribald material more for the purpose of poking fun at the foibles and weaknesses that manifest themselves in human sexuality, rather than to present sexual stimulation either excitingly or artistically. Also, ribaldry may use sex as a metaphor to illustrate some non-sexual concern, in which case ribaldry may verge on the territory of satire.\n\nLike any humour, ribaldry may be read as conventional or subversive. Ribaldry typically depends on a shared background of sexual conventions and values, and its comedy generally depends on seeing those conventions broken.\n\nThe ritual taboo-breaking that is a usual counterpart of ribaldry underlies its controversial nature and explains why ribaldry is sometimes a subject of censorship. Ribaldry, whose usual aim is \"not\" \"merely\" to be sexually stimulating, often does address larger concerns than mere sexual appetite. However, being presented in the form of comedy, these larger concerns may be overlooked by censors.\n\nRibaldry differs from black comedy (or gallows humor) in that black comedy deals with topics which would normally considered painful or frightening whereas ribaldry deals with topics that would only be considered offensive.\n\nRibaldry is present to some degree in every culture and has likely been around for all of human history. Works like \"Lysistrata\" by Aristophanes, \"Menaechmi\" by Plautus, \"Cena Trimalchionis\" by Petronius, and \"The Golden Ass\" of Apuleius are ribald classics from ancient Greece and Rome. Geoffrey Chaucer's \"The Miller's Tale\" from his \"Canterbury Tales\" and \"The Crabfish\", one of the oldest English traditional ballads, are classic examples. The Frenchman François Rabelais showed himself to be a master of ribaldry (technically called grotesque body) in his \"Gargantua\" and other works. \"The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman\" by Laurence Sterne and \"The Lady's Dressing Room\" by Jonathan Swift are also in this genre; as is Mark Twain's long-suppressed \"1601\".\n\nAnother example of ribaldry is \"De Brevitate Vitae\", a song which in many European-influenced universities is both a student beer-drinking song and an anthem sung by official university choirs at public graduation ceremonies. The private and public versions of the song contain vastly different words. More recent works like \"Candy\", \"Barbarella\", \"L'Infermiera\", the comedic works of Russ Meyer, \"Little Annie Fanny\" and John Barth's \"The Sot-Weed Factor\" are probably better classified as ribaldry than as either pornography or erotica.\n\nA bawdy song is a humorous song that emphasises sexual themes and is often rich with innuendo. Historically these songs tend to be confined to groups of young males, either as students or in an environment where alcohol is flowing freely. An early collection was \"Wit and Mirth, or Pills to Purge Melancholy\", edited by Thomas D'Urfey and published between 1698 and 1720. Selected songs from \"Wit and Mirth\" have been recorded by the City Waites and other singers. Sailor's songs tend to be quite frank about the exploitative nature of the relationship between men and women. There are many examples of folk songs in which a man encounters a woman in the countryside. This is followed by a short conversation, and then sexual intercourse, e.g. \"The Game of All Fours\". Neither side demonstrates any shame or regret. If the woman becomes pregnant, the man will not be there anyway. Rugby songs are often bawdy. Examples of bawdy folk songs are: \"Seventeen Come Sunday\" and \"The Ballad of Eskimo Nell\". Robert Burns compiled \"The Merry Muses of Caledonia\" (the title is not Burns's), a collection of bawdy lyrics that were popular in the music halls of Scotland as late as the 20th century. In modern times Hash House Harriers have taken on the role of tradition-bearers for this kind of song. \"The Unexpurgated Folk Songs of Men\" (Arhoolie 4006) is a gramophone record containing a collection of American bawdy songs recorded in 1959.\n\nBlue comedy is comedy that is off-color, risqué, indecent or profane, largely about sex. It often contains profanity or sexual imagery that may shock and offend some audience members.\n\n\"Working blue\" refers to the act of using curse words and discussing things that people do not discuss in \"polite society\". A \"blue comedian\" or \"blue comic\" is a comedian who usually performs risqué routines layered with curse words. \n\nThere is a common belief that comedian Max Miller (1894–1963) coined the phrase, after his stage act which involved telling jokes from either a white book or a blue book, chosen by audience preference (the blue book contained ribald jokes). This is not so, as the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" contains earlier references to the use of blue to mean ribald: 1890 \"Sporting Times\" 25 Jan. 1/1 \"\"Shifter wondered whether the damsel knew any novel blue stories.\" and 1900 \"Bulletin\" (Sydney) 20 Oct. 12/4 \"Let someone propose to celebrate Chaucer by publicly reading some of his bluest productions unexpurgated. The reader would probably be locked up.\"\"\n\nPrivate events at show business clubs such as the Bob Saget Club and The Masquers often showed this blue side of otherwise cleancut Bob Saget; a recording survives of one Masquers roast from the 1950s with Jack Benny, George Jessel, George Burns, and Art Linkletter all using highly risqué material and obscenities. Many comedians who are normally family-friendly might choose to work blue when off-camera or in an adult-oriented environment; Bob Saget exemplifies this dichotomy. Bill Cosby's 1969 record album records both his family-friendly evening standup comedy show, and his blue midnight show, which included a joke about impregnating his wife \"right through the old midnight trampoline\" (her diaphragm) and other sexual references.\n\nSome comedians build their careers on blue comedy. Among the best known of these are Redd Foxx, Lawanda Page, and the team of Leroy and Skillet, all of whom later performed on the family-friendly television show Sanford and Son. Page, Leroy, and Skillet specialized in a particular African American form of blue spoken word recitation called signifying or toasting. Dave Attell has also been described by his peers as one of the greatest modern-day blue comics. \n\nOn talk radio in the United States, many commentators use blue comedy in their political programs. Examples include Neal Boortz, Eric Von Haessler, Phil Hendrie and Steve Morrison.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "622988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622988", "title": "Sahrawi people", "text": "Sahrawi people\n\nThe Sahrawi, or Saharawi people ( '; Berber: '; Moroccan Arabic: ; ), are the people living in the western part of the Sahara desert which includes Western Sahara (claimed by the Polisario and mostly controlled by Morocco), other parts of southern Morocco not claimed by the Polisario, most of Mauritania and the extreme southwest of Algeria.\n\nAs with most peoples living in the Sahara, the Sahrawi culture is mixed. It shows mainly Arab-Berber characteristics, like the privileged position of women, as well as characteristics common to ethnic groups of the Sahel. Sahrawis are composed of many tribes and are largely speakers of the Hassaniya dialect of Arabic, and some of them still speak Berber in both of Morocco's disputed and non-disputed territories.\n\nThe Arabic word ' literally means \"Inhabitant of the Desert\". The word Sahrawi is derived from the Arabic word ' (), meaning desert. A man is called a \"Sahrawi\", and a women is called a \"Sahrawiya\". In other languages it is pronounced in similar or different ways:\n\n\nNomadic Berbers, mainly of the Senhaja / Zenaga tribal confederation, inhabited the areas now known as Western Sahara, southern Morocco, Mauritania and southwestern Algeria, before Islam arrived in the 8th century AD. The new faith was spread by Berbers themselves, and Arab immigration in the first centuries of Islamic expansion was minimal. It is not known when the camel was introduced to the region (probably in the first or second millennium BC), but it revolutionized the traditional trade routes of North Africa. Berber caravans transported salt, gold, and slaves between North and West Africa, and the control of trade routes became a major ingredient in the constant power struggles between various tribes and sedentary peoples. On more than one occasion, the Berber tribes of present-day Mauritania, Morocco and Western Sahara would unite behind religious leaders to sweep the surrounding governments from power, then founding principalities, dynasties, or even vast empires of their own. This was the case with the Berber Almoravid dynasty of Morocco and Andalusia, and several emirates in Mauritania.\n\nIn the 11th century, the Bedouin tribes of the Beni Hilal and Beni Sulaym emigrated westwards from Egypt to the Maghreb region. In the early 13th century, the Yemeni Maqil tribes migrated westwards across the entirety of Arabia and northern Africa, to finally settle around present-day Morocco. They were badly received by the Zenata Berber descendants of the Merinid dynasty, and among the tribes pushed out of the territory were the Beni Hassan.\n\nThis tribe entered the domains of the Sanhaja, and over the following centuries imposed itself upon them, intermixing with the population in the process. Berber attempts to shake off the rule of Arab warrior tribes occurred sporadically, but assimilation gradually won out, and after the failed Char Bouba Uprising (1644–74), the Berber tribes would virtually without exception embrace Arab or Muslim culture culture and even claim Arab heritage. The Arabic dialect of the Beni Ḥassān, Hassaniya, remains the mother-tongue of Mauritania and Moroccan-controlled Western Sahara to this day, and is also spoken in southern Morocco and western Algeria, among affiliated tribes. Berber vocabulary and cultural traits remain common, despite the fact that many if not all of the Sahrawi/Moorish tribes today claim Arab ancestry; several are even claiming to be descendants of Muhammad, so-called sharifian tribes (pl. \"shorfa\" or \"chorfa\").\n\nThe modern Sahrawi are Arabs of Bani Hassan or Berber with Arabs as an additional ethnicity whose cultural volume is bigger than its genetic one. The people inhabit the westernmost Sahara desert, in the area of modern Mauritania, Morocco, Western Sahara, and parts of Algeria. (Some tribes would also traditionally migrate into northern Mali and Niger, or even further along the Saharan caravan routes.) As with most Saharan peoples, the tribes reflect a highly mixed heritage, combining Berber, Arab, and other influences, including ethnic and cultural characteristics found in many ethnic groups of the Sahel. The latter were primarily acquired through mixing with Wolof, Soninke and other populations of the southern Sahel, and through the acquisition of slaves by wealthier nomad families.\n\nIn pre-colonial times, the Sahara was generally considered \"Blad Essiba\" or \"the land of dissidence\" by the Moroccan central government and Sultan of Morocco in Fez, and by the authorities of the Deys of Algiers. The governments of the pre-colonial sub-Saharan empires of Mali and Songhai appear to have had a similar relationship with the tribal territories, which were once the home of undisciplined raiding tribes and the main trade route for the Saharan caravan trade. Central governments had little control over the region, although the Hassaniya tribes would occasionally extended \"beya\" or allegiance to prestigious rulers, to gain their political backing or, in some cases, as a religious ceremony. The Moorish populations of what is today northern Mauritania established a number of emirates, claiming the loyalty of several different tribes and through them exercising semi-sovereignty over traditional grazing lands. This could be considered the closest thing to centralized government that was ever achieved by the Hassaniya tribes, but even these emirates were weak, conflict-ridden and rested more on the willing consent of the subject tribes than on any capacity to enforce loyalty.\n\nModern distinctions drawn between the various Hassaniya-speaking Sahrawi-Moorish groups are primarily political, but cultural differences dating from different colonial and post-colonial histories are also apparent. An important divider is whether the tribal confederations fell under French or Spanish colonial rule. France conquered most of North and West Africa largely during the late 19th century. This included Algeria and Mauritania, and, from 1912, Morocco. But Western Sahara and scattered minor parts of Morocco fell to Spain, and were named Spanish Sahara (subdivided into Río de Oro and Saguia el-Hamra) and Spanish Morocco respectively. These colonial intrusions brought the Muslim Saharan peoples under Christian European rule for the first time, and created lasting cultural and political divides between and within existing populations, as well as upsetting traditional balances of power in differing ways.\n\nThe Sahrawi-Moorish areas, then still undefined as to exact territorial boundaries, proved troublesome for the colonizers, just as they had for neighbouring dynasties in previous centuries. The political loyalty of these populations were first and foremost to their respective tribes, and supertribal allegiances and alliances would shift rapidly and unexpectedly. Their nomadic lifestyle made direct control over the territories hard to achieve, as did general lawlessness, an absence of prior central authority, and a widely held contempt for the kind of settled life that the colonizers sought to bring about. Centuries of intertribal warfare and raids for loot (\"ghazzu\") guaranteed that the populations were well armed and versed in guerilla-style warfare. Tribes allied to hostile European powers would now also be considered fair game for cattle raids on those grounds, which tied the struggle against France and Spain into the traditional power play of the nomads, aggravating the internal struggles.\n\nUprisings and violent tribal clashes therefore took place with increasing frequency as European encroachment increased, and on occasion took the form of anti-colonial holy war, or Jihad, as in the case of the Ma al-'Aynayn uprising in the first years of the 20th century. It was not until the 1930s that Spain was able to finally subdue the interior of present-day Western Sahara, and then only with strong French military assistance. Mauritania's raiding Moors had been brought under control in the previous decades, partly through skilful exploitation by the French of traditional rivalries and social divisions between the tribes. In these encounters, the large Reguibat tribe proved especially resistant to the new rulers, and its fighters would regularly slip in out of French and Spanish territory, similarly exploiting the rivalries between European powers. The last major Reguibat raid took place in 1934, after which the Spanish authorities occupied Smara, finally gaining control over the last unpatrolled border territories.\n\nThe Sahrawi-Moorish tribes remained largely nomadic until the early to mid-20th century, when Franco-Spanish rivalries (as well as disagreements between different wings of the French colonial regime) managed to impose rigid, if arbitrary, borders on the previously fluid Sahara. The wide-ranging grazing lands of the nomads were split apart, and their traditional economies, based on trans-Saharan caravan trade and raiding of each other and the northern and southern Sahel neighbors, were broken. Little attention was paid to existing tribal confederations and zones of influence when dividing up the Saharan interior.\n\nFrench and Spanish colonial governments would gradually, and with varying force, impose their own systems of government and education over these territories, exposing the native populations to differing colonial experiences. The populations in Algeria were subjected to direct French rule, which was organized to enable the massive settlement of French and European immigrants. In Mauritania, they experienced a French non-settler colonial administration which, if light in its demands on the nomads, also deliberately overturned the existing social order, allying itself with lower-ranking marabout and zenaga tribes against the powerful warrior clans of the Hassane Arabs. In southern Morocco, France upheld indirect rule through the sultanate in some areas, while Spain exercised direct administration in others. Spanish Sahara was treated first as a colony, and later as an overseas province, with gradually tightening political conditions, and, in later years, a rapid influx of Spanish settlers (making Spaniards about 20% of the population in 1975). By the time of decolonization in 1950s-1970s, Sahrawi tribes in all these different territories had experienced roughly a generation or more of distinct experiences; often, however, their nomadic lifestyle had guaranteed that they were subjected to less interference than what sedentary populations experienced in the same areas.\n\nThe period of colonization radically changed existing power structures, leaving a confused legacy of contradictory political affiliations, European-drawn borders with little resemblance to ethnic and tribal realities, and the foundations of modern political conflict.\n\nFor example, both sides in the Western Sahara conflict (Morocco vs. the Polisario Front) draw heavily on colonial history to prove their version of reality. Proponents of the Greater Morocco ideology point to some Sahrawi tribes calling upon the Moroccan sultan, who until 1912 remained the last independent Islamic ruler of the area, for assistance against the Europeans (see Ma al-'Aynayn). Pro-independence Sahrawis, on the other hand, point out that such statements of allegiance were almost routinely given by various tribal leaders to create short-term alliances, and that other heads of tribes indeed similarly proclaimed allegiance to Spain, to France, to Mauritanian emirates, and indeed to each other; they argue that such arrangements always proved temporary, and that the tribal confederations always maintained \"de facto\" independence of central authority, and would even fight to maintain this independence.\n\nThe International Court of Justice issued a ruling on the matter in 1975, stating that there \"had\" existed ties between the Moroccan sultan and some (mainly northerly Tekna) tribes in then-Spanish Sahara, but that these ties were \"not\" sufficient to abrogate Western Sahara's right to self-determination. The same kind of ruling was issued with regard to Mauritania, where the court found that there were indeed strong tribal and cultural links between the Sahrawis and Mauritanian populations, including historical allegiance to some Moorish emirates, but that these were not ties of a state or government character, and did not constitute formal bonds of sovereignty. Thus, the court recommended the UN to continue to pursue self-determination for the Sahrawis, enabling them to choose for themselves whether they wanted Spanish Sahara to turn into an independent state, or to be annexed to Morocco or Mauritania.\n\nThe area today referred to as Western Sahara remains, according to the United Nations, one of the world's last remaining major non-self-governing territories. Morocco controls most of the territory as its Southern Provinces, but the legality of this is not internationally recognized by any country and is disputed militarily by the Polisario Front, an Algerian-backed movement claiming independence for the territory as the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR). Since 1991, there has been a cease-fire between Morocco and Polisario, but disturbances in Moroccan-held territories as well as the ongoing dispute over the legal status of the territory guarantees continued United Nations involvement and occasional international attention to the issue.\n\nThe Polisario Front is the Western Sahara's national liberation movement, fighting for the independence of the Western Sahara since 1973—originally against Spanish rule; after 1975, against Mauritania and Morocco; since 1979, against Morocco only. The organization is based in Algeria, where it is responsible for the Tindouf refugee camps. The organization has maintained a cease-fire with Morocco since 1991 (see Settlement Plan), but continues to strive for the territory's independence as the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR) through peaceful negotiations. The Polisario Front restricts its claims to the colonially-defined Western Sahara, holding no claim to, for example, the Sahrawi-populated Tarfaya Strip in Morocco, or any part of Mauritania. Since 1979, the Polisario Front has been recognized by the United Nations as the representative of the people of Western Sahara.\n\nAs described above, the Hassaniya speaking tribes are of Arabian, Beni Hassan descent, who fused with the dominant Sanhaja Berber tribes, as well as Black African and other indigenous populations (e.g. indigenous Soninke speaking groups). Even though cultural arabization of the Berber people was thorough, some elements of Berber identity remain.\n\nSome tribes, such as the large Reguibat, have a Berber background but have since been thoroughly arabized; others, such as the Oulad Delim, are considered descendants of the Beni Hassan, even though intermarriage with other tribes and former slaves have occurred; a few, such as the Tekna tribal confederation, have retained some Berber dialect of the area. Often, though not in the case of the Tekna, the Berber-Arab elements of a tribe's cultural heritage reflects social stratification. In traditional Moorish-Sahrawi society, Arab tribes of the Tekna confederation claimed a role as rulers and protectors of the disarmed weaker Berber tribes of the Takna confederation. Thus, the warrior tribes and nobility would be Arab.\n\nHowever, most tribes, regardless of their mixed heritage, tend to claim some form of Arab ancestry, as this has been key to achieving social status. Many (the so-called chorfa tribes) will also claim descendancy from the Prophet Muhammad himself. In any case, no tribal identity is cut in stone, and over the centuries a great deal of intermarriage and tribal re-affiliation has occurred to blur former ethnic/cultural lines; groups have often seamlessly re-identified to higher status identities, after achieving the military or economic strength to defeat former rulers. This was, for example, the case of the largest of the Sahrawi tribes, the Reguibat. A Berber-descended zawiya (scholarly) tribe who in the 18th century took up camel nomadism and warrior traditions, they simultaneously took on more and more of an Arab identity, reflecting their new position alongside the traditional warrior castes of Arab Hassane origin, such as the Oulad Delim and the Arabic-speaking tribes of the Tekna confederation.\n\nGenerally speaking, the Hassaniya populations were (or are) divided into several groups, of different social status.\n\nAt the peak of society were the aristocratic \"warrior\" lineages or clans, the Hassane, supposed descendants of the Beni Hassan Arab tribe (cf. Oulad Delim). Below them stood the \"scholarly\" or \"clerical\" lineages. These were called marabout or zawiya tribes (cf. Oulad Tidrarine). The latter designation the preferred one in among the Western Sahara-centered tribes, who would also almost invariably claim chorfa status to enhance their religious credibility. The zawiya tribes were protected by Hassan overlords in exchange for their religious services and payment of the horma, a tributary tax in cattle or goods; while they were in a sense exploited, the relationship was often more or less symbiotic. Under both these groups, but still part of the Western Sahara society, stood the znaga tribes—tribal groups labouring in demeaning occupations, such as fishermen (cf. Imraguen), as well as peripheral semi-tribal groups working in the same fields (among them the \"professional\" castes, mallemin and igawen). All these groups were considered to be among the \"bidan\", or whites.\n\nBelow them ranked servile groups known as Haratin, a black population, according to some sources descendants of the original Sahara population, but more generally seen to be the descendants of freed slaves of African origins . (Note that \"Haratin\", a term of obscure origin, has a different meaning in the Berber regions of Morocco.) They often lived serving affiliated \"bidan\" (white) families, and as such formed part of the tribe, not tribes of their own. Below them came the slaves themselves, who were owned individually or in family groups, and could hope at best to be freed and rise to the status of Haratin. Rich bidan families would normally own a few slaves at the most, as nomadic societies have less use of slave labour than sedentary societies; however, in some cases, slaves were used to work oasis plantations, farming dates, digging wells etc.\n\nBest reference on Sahrawi population ethnography is the work of Spanish anthropologist Julio Caro Baroja, who in 1952-53 spent several months among native tribes all along the Spanish Sahara. He published in 1955 a monumental book on the subject, whose thoroughness and depth have not been equaled so far .\n\nAccording to the Ethnologue database, there were more than three million Hassaniya speakers in 2006, of whom 2.7 million resided in Mauritania. The number of Hassaniya speakers identifying as \"Sahrawi\" in the modern political sense is unknown, and estimates are hotly contested by partisans in the Western Sahara conflict. Most estimates however center around 200,000 to 400,000. These populations are centered in southern Morocco, Western Sahara, and in the Tindouf Province of Algeria, where large number of refugees from Western Sahara are located.\n\nSahrawis' native language is the Hassānīya, a variety of Arabic originally spoken by the Beni Hassan Arabian tribes of the Western Sahara. It has almost completely replaced the Berber languages originally spoken in this region. Though clearly a western dialect, Hassānīya is relatively distant from other North African variants of Arabic. Its geographical location exposed it to influence from Zenaga and Wolof. There are several dialects of Hassaniya; the primary differences among them are phonetics. Today Hassaniya is spoken in south-western Algeria, northern Mali, Mauritania, southern-Morocco and Western Sahara. (Mauritania has the biggest concentration of speakers) . Some Sahrawis speak Tashelhit and/or Moroccan Arabic as a second language due to interaction with neighboring populations.\n\nModern Standard Arabic and the Amazigh language (a standardized version of Moroccan Berber languages) is the official language of the Moroccan administered part of Western Sahara. While Standard Arabic is the only official language in Mauritania, Algeria and the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.\n\nThe current Moroccan constitution (adopted in July 2011) mentions, in its 5th article, the Hassaniya language and recommends its preservation as a cultural heritage of Morocco.\n\nDue to the past colonization of Western Sahara and Cape Juby by Spain, Spanish is spoken by some Sahrawis, especially among the Sahrawi diaspora, with the Sahrawi Press Service, official news service of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, being available in Spanish since 2001 and the Sahara Film Festival, Western Sahara's only film festival, shows mainly Spanish-language films.\n\nAfter the Madrid Accords which transferred administration of the Spanish Sahara to Mauritania and Morocco in 1976, an exodus of refugees fled the violence that ensued, with substantial numbers ending up in the Polisario Front movement's base areas in the Algerian Sahara, where refugee camps were set up in the Tindouf Province, and a smaller number in camps in Mauritania. The camps in Tindouf were named after towns in the Western Sahara (Awserd, Laayoune, Smara and Dakhla).\n\nAlgerian authorities have estimated the number of Sahrawi refugees in Algeria to be 165,000. For many years this figure was referred to by UNCHR, but in 2005 the organization reduced the number of \"vulnerable refugees\" to 90,000, until a census to determine the exact number of refugees in the camps could be done. The Moroccan government contends that the figure is much lower, around 45,000 to 50,000, and that these people are kept in the refugee camps against their will by Polisario.\n\nMauritania houses about 26,000 Sahrawi refugees, classified by UNHCR as \"people in a refugee-like situation\". This population consists both of original refugees to the territory, and of former Tindouf dwellers who have since migrated to Mauritania.\n\nAdditionally, between 3,000 and 12,000 Sahrawis live in Spain, the former colonizer.\n\nIn 2018, thirty Sahrawi refugees were dead in an air crash of Algerian Air Force Il-76. They had been visiting Algiers for various medical and bureaucratic reasons. Sahrawis from the refugee camps are regularly provided with free flights in Algerian military transport aircraft.\n\n\nReligiously, the Sahrawis are Sunni Muslims of the Maliki rite or school. Historically, religious practice has been pragmatically adapted to nomad life and local tradition. Also, since the late medieval period, various Sufi \"Turuq\" (brotherhoods or orders), have played an important role in popular religious practice; the most important among these are the Qadiriyya and Tijaniyya. Further, among the Hassaniya tribes, certain lineages reputed to be descended from the Prophet Mohammed, the chorfa, have played an important role in intertribal religious society.\n\nThe tribe was the historical basis of social and political organisation among the Hassaniya-speaking tribes of the Sahara, well into the colonial and arguably post-colonial period. Traditionally, Hassaniya Sahrawi society was completely tribal, organized in a complex web of shifting alliances and tribal confederations, with no stable and centralized governing authority.\n\nLawmaking, conflict resolution and central decision-making within the tribe, was carried out by the Djema'a, (Arabic, gathering) a gathering of elected elders (shaykhs) and religious scholars. Occasionally, larger tribal gatherings could be held in the form of the Ait Arbein (Group of Forty), which would handle supratribal affairs such as common defence of the territory or common diplomacy. During colonial times, Spain attempted to assume some of the legitimacy of these traditional institutions by creating its own Djema'a, a state-run political association that supported its claims to the territory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54651878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54651878", "title": "SixWeeks", "text": "SixWeeks\n\nSixWeeks was a consumer experiment in 2009 in which Paul McCrudden was paid by companies for being their customer. Using his own personal data about the time and money he spent as a consumer during a six-week period, he invoiced over 50 UK and international companies requesting payment. Five companies paid him, including Pret a Manger, PizzaExpress, EAT and Little Chef.\n\nIn a six-week period in June–July 2009, McCrudden recorded all of the time and money he spent as a consumer, and published it on his blog. He used Daytum, a personal data collection service created by Nicholas Felton, to track how he spent his time as a consumer.\n\nOver 50 companies were invoiced, ranging from FTSE 100 corporates including Sainsbury's, media companies including Channel 4, and small independent shops in London. McCrudden charged each company for the total time he spent with them in the six week period, which included waiting in line to be served, and sent invoices in the post addressed to each company's finance department.\n\nFive companies paid McCrudden - Pret A Manger, Pizza Express, EAT, Little Chef and Squat + Gobble, an independent cafe on Charlotte Street, London.\n\nThe first response was from Pret A Manger, whose founder Julian Metcalfe sent McCrudden a letter and cheque for £62. The payment reimbursed the time and money McCrudden spent and included an additional £1 for him to walk to cash the cheque.\n\nThe responses included a series of letters from the Managing Director of fruit and nut chain Cranberry, who provided McCrudden with a number of definitions for the word 'nut', and made an offer to all their customers.\n\nAll responses were published on the blog and via Twitter.\n\nSixWeeks was first covered by \"Campaign\", whose online edition featured it as its top story on August 18, 2009. It featured in national and international mainstream media, including an article in \"The Telegraph\", \"The Times\" and \"Metro\". McCrudden appeared on BBC Radio 5 Live's afternoon \"Drivetime\" show where presenter Peter Allen asked him if it was a stunt by one of the companies involved.\n\nThe project won numerous national awards including \"The Guardian\"'s Mega Innovation Award; judges described it as \"based on a social truth providing a social impact, a campaign that was effective to all\", and Best Blog at the 2010 BIMA Awards.\n"}
{"id": "21017942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21017942", "title": "Symbolic racism", "text": "Symbolic racism\n\nSymbolic racism (also known as modern-symbolic racism, modern racism, symbolic prejudice, and racial resentment) is a coherent belief system that reflects an underlying unidimensional prejudice towards black people in the United States. These beliefs include the stereotype that blacks are morally inferior to white people, and that they violate traditional White American values such as hard work and independence. This is also more of a general term than it is specifically related to prejudice towards black people. It can be more generally characterized as an open dislike and derogation of individuals related to one's self. These beliefs may cause the subject to discriminate against black people and to justify this discrimination. Some people do not view symbolic racism as prejudice since it is not linked directly to race but indirectly through social and political issues.\n\nDavid O. Sears and P.J. Henry characterize symbolic racism as the expression or endorsement of four specific themes or beliefs:\n\nSymbolic racism is a form of modern racism, as it is more subtle and indirect than more overt forms of racism, such as those characterized in Jim Crow laws. As symbolic racism develops through socialization and its processes occur without conscious awareness, an individual with symbolic racist beliefs may genuinely oppose racism and believe they are not racist. Symbolic racism is perhaps the most prevalent racial attitude today.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Civil Rights Movement, old-fashioned (or \"Jim Crow\") racism dissolved along with segregation in the United States. Some people believe that new forms of racism began to replace old-fashioned racism. Symbolic racism is a term that was coined by David Sears and John McConahay in 1973 to explain why most white Americans supported principles of equality for black Americans, but less than half were willing to support programs designed to implement these principles. The original theory described three definitive aspects of symbolic racism: \n\nThe concept of symbolic racism has evolved over time but most writings currently define symbolic racism as containing four themes:\n\nThe term \"symbolic racism\" derives from the fact that the opinions expressed characterize blacks as an abstract group, \"as in the anonymous 'they' in 'if they would only…'\" rather than specific individuals. People hold prejudices because of the cultural stereotypes attributed to the group rather than because of any personal individual experience with the group in question. Researchers have given the concept of symbolic racism many different names, usually to emphasize one aspect over another. These names include \"modern racism\", \"racial resentment\", and \"laissez-faire racism\". However, they all represent virtually the same concept and are measured in much the same way.\n\nWhile similar in nature, symbolic racism is distinguished from aversive racism based on the relationships between the defining characteristics. Aversive racism involves \"separate, disassociated positive and negative components, which are in conflict, and thus, may sometimes be experienced as ambivalence.\" Symbolic racism, on the other hand, \"reflects the unique assimilation of individualistic values and negative racial affect.\" The components of aversive racism remain disassociated within the individual; whereas, the components of symbolic racism blend to produce racial attitudes. While both types of racism predict similar behavior, they are the consequences of different fundamental processes.\n\nWhitley and Kite cite six underlying factors that contribute to symbolic racism. They are to this day believed to have been some of the biggest influences on modern racism.\n\nAccording to Whitley and Kite, those who hold symbolic racist beliefs tend to hold implicitly negative attitudes, most likely gained in childhood, towards blacks that may or may not be conscious. These attitudes may not be outright hatred, but rather fear, disgust, anger, contempt, etc. In addition, those who hold symbolic racist beliefs may also believe in traditional American values such as hard work, individuality, and self-restraint. However, these beliefs have become racialized. Many perceive that black individuals do not hold or act in accordance with these values. Instead, black individuals rely on public assistance, seek government favors, and act impulsively. As Whitley and Kite note, \"The fact that White people also accept public assistance, seek government favors, and act impulsively is not relevant to people with symbolic prejudice; it is their perception (usually in stereotypic terms) of Black people's behavior that they focus on.\" Furthermore, those with symbolic prejudice tend to believe in the equality of opportunity, which includes access to resources such as education, housing, and employment. However, they tend not to believe in the equality of outcome. This explains how people can support the principle of racial equality but not support initiatives to achieve it, such as affirmative action. Government intervention when individuals do not have the same talent, effort or historical background would violate traditional values of equality of opportunity. Thus, \"people can simultaneously endorse equality of opportunity and reject government intervention to bring about equality of outcome.\" Group self-interest reflects the idea that people try to do what is best for their group. This idea manifests itself in the opinion that whites are deprived as a group of opportunities due to policies intended to benefit blacks. Finally, Whitley and Kite state most whites do not have extensive personal experience with blacks so the negative stereotypes they hold about blacks do not have the opportunity to be dispelled.\n\nMuch of the initial research conducted by researchers on symbolic racism utilized McConahay's (1986) modern racism scale (MRS). However, citing a number of measurement problems, Sears and Henry published the Symbolic Racism 2000 (SR2K) Scale in 2002 in the journal \"Political Psychology\". It consists of a series of statements relating to race and politics to which the participant must state their agreement on a scale of \"strongly disagree\" to \"strongly agree.\" Statements included on the American National Election Studies surveys and most commonly used in political science research include:\n\nThis updated scale addresses the issues with previous forms of measurement including internal reliability, construct validity, predictive validity, and discriminant validity, and generalizability.\n\nBobocel et al. (1998) found that prejudice can be rationalized as a concern for justice. Opposition to preferential affirmative action programs (which assign more weight to certain demographics and give preference to target groups and their members) was uniquely predicted by an individual's belief in merit principles. That is, regardless of prejudice level, individuals tend to oppose preferential treatment programs because they violate traditional norms of meritocracy. However, the higher an individual's level of prejudice, the more likely he was to construe an \"undefined\" affirmative action program (e. g. not necessarily preferential) as violating the merit principle and, in turn, oppose the undefined affirmative action program. These high-prejudice individuals were able to rationalize their prejudice as a concern for justice, although no traditional justice norms had been explicitly violated. In this way, symbolic racism functions through rationalization as a concern for traditional norms without conscious awareness.\n\nPublic opinion researchers polled white Americans in the early 1970s on their backing for racial equality and their support for government intervention that would enforce that equality. The results revealed high levels of support from white Americans, ranging from 75 to nearly 100 percent, regarding the principles for school integration, equal opportunity employment, and open housing. Support from the same white Americans was significantly lower for implementation of abstract principles at approximately 50%.\n\nCollege students who had completed a modern-symbolic prejudice measure early in the semester evaluated the résumés of 10 job applicants. The applicants consisted of three qualified blacks, two qualified whites, and five unqualified whites. The students were split into two groups: one containing students rated high in modern-symbolic prejudice and once containing students rated low. Each student received a memo from the president of the company. Half of the students received memos in which the president of the company asked the student to abstain from hiring a worker of a minority group because the person hired would be dealing mainly with white employees. The memo for the second group did not contain this message. The results were stark between the groups: the group that did not receive any instructions from the president of the company recommended a black candidate 61% of the time, regardless of the individual's modern-symbolic prejudice rating. In the group that had received justification from the president to abstain from minority hiring, 37% of the students low in modern-symbolic prejudice recommended a black candidate whereas only 18% of the students high in modern-symbolic prejudice recommended a black candidate. The results show that symbolic prejudice is expressed most strongly when non-explicitly racist justifications are given for discriminatory action.\n\nWhile symbolic racism was originally conceptualized as a prejudice specifically against blacks in the United States due to their violation of cherished values, scholars have expanded the concept to apply it to other groups and other locales. In the United States, research has been conducted on symbolic racism as it relates to Latinos and Asians, as well as modern sexism, anti-fat bias, and heterosexism. For example, Mingying Fu conducted an experiment in which symbolic racism was shown to influence attitudes toward outgroup members and racial policies. In addition, Fu found that symbolic racism was the strongest predictor of white as well as Asian and Latino opposition to affirmative action after controlling for biological racism and ideology.\n\nFraser and Islam (2007) applied the concept of symbolic racism to the Aborigines and European Australians in Australia. In this context, the Australian version of the symbolic racism construct is defined as \"the use of affective responses and beliefs that are well accepted within a dominant majority racial group as justifying its advantaged position\". They measured the relationship between racial prejudice and support for Pauline Hanson's One Nation Party using two postal surveys based on a random sample of names from electoral registers. Support for Hansen and voting for the One Nation Party were strongly related to a measure of symbolic racism. The study also found a relationship between symbolic racism and a measure of relational orientation, or concern over the position of one's own racial group relative to other racial groups. Fraser and Islam state that this finding suggests that beliefs influenced by symbolic racism may be motivated by social identity processes, \"where white European Australians regard their culture as the real, mainstream Australian culture, abs resent special concessions to groups such as Aborigines and Asian migrants, whom they exclude from their narrow self-identity as Australians.\"\n\nExamples of symbolic racism also exist in Europe, as \"Public Support for the European Union: Cost/Benefit Analysis or Perceived Cultural Threat?\" argues that people are hostile towards the European integration due to the their perceptions of threats posed by other cultures. In this study, the independent variables to be gauged were the realistic and symbolic perceptions. The response choices for the questions given to his participants were dichotomous for each of these variables. The choices were :\n\n\nThe findings of the questions for his participants demonstrated that perceived cultural threats appeared to have a strong sway on the attitudes toward the EU. It was concluded that attitudes toward the European Union were largely based on a general hostility towards other cultures. \n\nSymbolic racism has implications for legal policies. Green et al. (2006) found a positive correlation between symbolic racism and punishing crime policies such as the death penalty and three strikes laws, and a negative relationship with policies that are intended to assist criminals such as inmate education.\n\nIndividual prejudices and opposition to programs to eliminate inequality of outcomes most likely contribute to institutional discrimination, which in turn leads to continued racial inequality.\n\nSymbolic racism has been found to have a major effect on attitudes regarding legal policies and Black political candidates. It has been shown to be a predictor of attitudes towards busing, affirmative action, and welfare.\n\nWithin American society, institutionalized practices have been influenced by Structural Racism resulting in \"the subordination and devaluation of minority groups\". In history, the solution for the deficit in the achievement gap between White and African American students believed that African Americans would academically perform better if these students were to adopt a Eurocentric cultural values system. This assumption of the inferiority of the African American culture closely relates to the work ethic themes from the concept of symbolic racism.\n\nIt is argued that the media framing of Obama has helped shaped many audiences' attitudes in ways that support symbolic racist beliefs, such as the idea that America is in a post racial contemporary society where discrimination is no longer a concern or that racial/minority groups are being \"too pushy\" for political rights. When comparing positively framed news stories to negatively framed stories of Obama, it was seen in a study of 168 participants that symbolic racist beliefs increased.\n\nIn more recent history, many African American musical artists who specialize in rap have been blamed for promoting youth violence, gangs and gang related crime, drug use, and violence against women in popular news sources such as BBC News and Fox News. In the study \"Blame It on Hip Hop: Anti-Rap Attitudes as a Proxy for Prejudice\", Reyna et al. found in three different samples a negative attitude towards rap is associated with negative stereotypes that believe African Americans are to be blamed for their economic plights. The type of rap that was looked at was categorized as gangster rap, which is notorious for its violent undertones and explicit language. Along with this, in their second study they found that Anti-rap attitudes are also associated with discrimination towards African Americans such as tendency to support policies that negatively impact predominantly black communities or reluctance to send one's child to a mixed race school. Conversely, other predominantly black genres of music such as jazz or gospel were not shown to elicit the same strong reactions, so it is believed that the imagery associated with rap music is a primary reason for common distaste in the music.\n\nA major criticism is that new experimental studies show that respondents do not answer these questions differently when groups other than African Americans are mentioned in the survey questions. For instance, when other groups such as \"Albanians,\" \"Lithuanians,\" \"Jordanians,\" \"Taiwanese,\" etc. were substituted into the same symbolic racism questions, the pattern of responses is not significantly different from responses when African Americans are the group included in the question. This undermines a primary claim made by Sears et al. that their measure of symbolic racism is a blend of \"anti-Black affect\" and \"conservatism.\" Enos and Carney (2018) write: \"Across multiple groups and multiple samples on different survey platforms, we find a strong an consistent pattern: the results obtained using groups other than Blacks are substantially indistinguishable from those measured when Blacks are the target group. Decomposing this measure further, we find that political conservatives express only minor differences in resentment across target groups. Far greater differences in resentment toward Blacks and other groups can be found among racially sympathetic liberals. In short, we find that modern racism questions appear to measure attitudes toward any group, rather than African Americans alone.\"\n\nOne criticism of symbolic racism is that it has been conceptualized and measured inconsistently over time. Sometimes it has been conceptualized as consisting of a single construct and other times as consisting of multiple subdimensions. Most scholars now consistently describe symbolic racism as being composed of the four major components listed by Tarman and Sears. Tarman and Sears posit that consistently defining it as based on those four themes will eliminate the inconsistency problems. The updated symbolic racism scale, Symbolic Racism 2000 (SR2K), is believed to have addressed many issues in measurement inconsistency.\n\nAnother criticism is that symbolic racism is not true racism but a manifestation of conservative political ideology. For instance, if one believes that one group should receive \"special favors\" they would answer the question in a manner coded as more racially resentful. Tarman and Sears evaluated this claim and concluded that symbolic racism is an independent belief system encompassing discrete attitudes from those of conservatives.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that the focus has moved prematurely from old-fashioned racism to modern racism. In a qualitative study, Mellor (2003) conducted interviews with Aboriginal Australians in which he discovered that many experience racism and that much of it is old-fashioned rather than modern. He argues that social scientists may have embraced forms of modern racism too quickly, which could have negative impacts on minorities by helping to maintain discriminatory social institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "8737843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8737843", "title": "Sérgio Cabral Filho", "text": "Sérgio Cabral Filho\n\nSérgio de Oliveira Cabral Santos Filho (born January 27, 1963) is a Brazilian politician, journalist and convicted felon.\n\nHe was elected governor of the state of Rio de Janeiro in the Brazilian general election, 2006s and sworn into office on January 1, 2007. Cabral Filho was a representative in the Rio de Janeiro state legislature from 1991 to 2002 and its president from 1995 to 2002. In the 2002 general elections, he was elected senator for the state of Rio de Janeiro, a position he occupied from January 2003 until December 2006, when he resigned to run in the Rio de Janeiro gubernatorial elections, having been replaced in Brazilian Senate by .\n\nHe ran for mayor of Rio de Janeiro in 1996 on a PSDB Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB) ticket, but his election as governor happened after he switched to the PMDB (Brazilian Democratic Movement Party). He and his running mate, Luiz Fernando de Sousa, won 68% of the valid votes (5,129,064 votes) in the second round of voting against the Popular Socialist Party (PPS) candidate Denise Frossard, who received only 32% of valid votes. \n\nCabral was selected to make formal apologies to 120 individuals, including Dilma Rousseff, Brazil's 36th president, for human rights abuses inflicted on them during the dictatorship that was in power in Brazil from 1964 to 1985. \n\nOn November 17, 2016, Cabral was arrested on charges of corruption.\n\nCabral became governor at a time of uncertain economic prospects and serious security challenges in his state of Rio de Janeiro. During the election campaign for governor in 2006, he had praised the \"zero tolerance\" security model touted by New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and pledged to root out police corruption and improve services in Rio's favelas. \n\nAfter visiting Colombia in 2007 to observe that country's success in the realm of public safety, Cabral secured additional funding for the police and tasked Public Security Secretary, José Mariano Beltrame with spearheading a plan to improve security. In 2008, the state and city governments launched a community policing program called Pacifying Police Units, or UPPs, in Rio. In contrast to previous police practices, UPPs created a sustained, long-term police presence in favelas, including the Cidade de Deus, Complexo do Alemão and Dona Marta. Their operations made use of Rio military police's BOPE units in fighting urban crime and also use their Police Pacification Units for extended policing. These methods led to decreased homicide rates in the favelas where UPPs were set up.\n\nIn healthcare, Cabral launched a mobile health unit that travels around the state giving free tests to the public in local areas.\n\nCabral also streamlined management of the state's finances through tax adjustments and adoption of strict modern management techniques such as electronic bidding. These measures led Rio de Janeiro to become the first Brazilian state to be ranked as \"investment grade\", by the world's most important risk rating agency, Standard & Poor's. At the time, the agency announced that \"the strong management that has prevailed in the State over the past three years\" and the fact that the state was \"backed by a strong and diverse economy with an estimated GDP per capita of around 25% above the average in Brazil\" made it achieve a global rating of \"BBB-\" and a \"brAAA\" credit rating on national scale.\n\nHis first tenure as governor was also marked by achievements for the LGBT community, especially the creation of Rio Sem Homofobia (Rio Without Homophobia), a program that aims to combat homophobia in public policies in the state. Cabral was also the first governor of Rio de Janeiro to participate in an LGBT parade.\n\nIn transportation, Cabral renovated the fleet of SuperVia trains, which had only ten trains in 2007 with air conditioning. Today, all 100 trains have air conditioning. He was also the governor who built most kilometers of underground metro lines since the subway began operation in the 1970s.\n\nSecurity improvements, economic growth and Rio winning the bid for the 2016 Summer Olympics helped to increase Cabral's popularity and led him to an easy re-election victory in the 2010 Rio de Janeiro gubernatorial election, with more than 66% of the vote. He was seen as a key ally to Presidents Lula and Dilma and was regarded as potential vice presidential candidate.\n\nOn September 14, 2009, Sérgio Cabral received the Légion d'honneur (National Order of the Legion of Honor), the highest award of the French government. The medal ceremony took place in Paris in the French Senate.\n\nOn May 8, 2008, Cabral received an award as the 2008 Personalidade Cidadania, or Good Citizen Award, for the roster of his political and social achievements during his tenure in the legislative and executive branches of government. He was selected by 4,327 representatives from various segments of civil society, by direct voting. The prize is an initiative of Unesco, Folha Dirigida and Associação Brasileira de Imprensa (ABI).\n\nIn 2013, Cabral received the Brazilian Person of the Year award from the Spain-Brazil Chamber of Commerce for his contribution to health and public safety in state of Rio through the projects of the public health assistance units and UPPs.\n\nRecently, he was accused of charging 5% on every contract awarded to Odebrecht, including those for restoring the Maracanã stadium and the Coperj railroad.\nAccording to the Folha de S.Paulo newspaper, he was implicated in Operation Car Wash by Benedicto Barbosa da Silva Júnior, the companies' director.\n\nOn November 17, 2016, the Federal Police of Brazil Sérgio Cabral and seven other persons (including former secretaries of his government), as part of Operation Car Wash.\n\nHe was accused of embezzling 224 million Brazilian reals, more than $80 million US. On December 6, 2016, the court heard charges filed by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office (MPF), then charged Sérgio Cabral with corruption, racketeering and money laundering. \nOn the same day, Adriana Ancelmo, Cabral's wife, was also arrested.\nIn February 2017, the MPF-RJ accused Cabral of taking part in Operation Efficiency, another operation connected to Operation Car Wash.\n\nOn 13 June 2017, he was sentenced to 14 years and two months of imprisonment for passive corruption and money laundering. On 20 September 2017 he was sentenced to an additional 45 years imprisonment for embezzlement.\n\nOn July 3, 2018, within the scope of the Carwash probe; failed Brazilian businessman Eike Batista was convicted of bribing Cabral for state government contracts, paying him USD $16.6 million. Held at the Gericinó penitentiary in Bangu, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Batista was sentenced to 30 year imprisonment; Brazilian law limits sentences to 30 years served.\n"}
{"id": "10518546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10518546", "title": "Technology life cycle", "text": "Technology life cycle\n\nThe technology life-cycle (TLC) describes the commercial gain of a product through the expense of research and development phase, and the financial return during its \"vital life\". Some technologies, such as steel, paper or cement manufacturing, have a long lifespan (with minor variations in technology incorporated with time) while in other cases, such as electronic or pharmaceutical products, the lifespan may be quite short.\n\nThe TLC associated with a product or technological service is different from product life-cycle (PLC) dealt with in product life-cycle management. The latter is concerned with the life of a product in the marketplace with respect to timing of introduction, marketing measures, and business costs. The \"technology\" underlying the product (for example, that of a uniquely flavoured tea) may be quite marginal but the process of creating and managing its life as a branded product will be very different. \n\nThe technology life cycle is concerned with the time and cost of developing the technology, the timeline of recovering cost, and modes of making the technology yield a profit proportionate to the costs and risks involved. The TLC may, further, be protected during its cycle with patents and trademarks seeking to lengthen the cycle and to maximize the profit from it.\n\nThe \"product\" of the technology may be a commodity such as polyethylene plastic or a sophisticated product like the integrated circuits used in a smartphone.\n\nThe development of a \"competitive product\" or process can have a major effect on the lifespan of the technology, making it shorter. Equally, the loss of intellectual property rights through litigation or loss of its secret elements (if any) through leakages also work to reduce a technology's lifespan. Thus, it is apparent that the \"management\" of the TLC is an important aspect of technology development.\n\nMost new technologies follow a similar technology maturity lifecycle describing the technological maturity of a product. This is not similar to a product life cycle, but applies to an entire technology, or a generation of a technology.\n\nTechnology adoption is the most common phenomenon driving the evolution of industries along the industry lifecycle. After expanding new uses of resources they end with exhausting the efficiency of those processes, producing gains that are first easier and larger over time then exhaustingly more difficult, as the technology matures.\n\nThe TLC may be seen as composed of four phases:\n\nThe shape of the technology lifecycle is often referred to as S-curve.\n\nThere is usually technology hype at the introduction of any new technology, but only after some time has passed can it be judged as mere hype or justified true acclaim.\nBecause of the logistic curve nature of technology adoption, it is difficult to see in the early stages whether the hype is excessive.\n\nThe two errors commonly committed in the early stages of a technology's development are:\nSimilarly, in the later stages, the opposite mistakes can be made relating to the possibilities of technology maturity and market saturation.\n\nThe technology adoption life cycle typically occurs in an S curve, as modelled in diffusion of innovations theory. This is because customers respond to new products in different ways. Diffusion of innovations theory, pioneered by Everett Rogers, posits that people have different levels of readiness for adopting new innovations and that the characteristics of a product affect overall adoption. Rogers classified individuals into five groups: innovators, early adopters, early majority, late majority, and laggards. In terms of the S curve, innovators occupy 2.5%, early adopters 13.5%, early majority 34%, late majority 34%, and laggards 16%.\n\nThe four stages of technology life cycle are as follows:\n\nLarge corporations develop technology for their own benefit and not with the objective of licensing. The tendency to license out technology only appears when there is a threat to the life of the TLC (business gain) as discussed later.\n\nThere are always smaller firms (SMEs) who are inadequately situated to finance the development of innovative R&D in the post-research and early technology phases. By sharing incipient technology under certain conditions, substantial risk financing can come from third parties. This is a form of quasi-licensing which takes different formats. Even large corporates may not wish to bear all costs of development in areas of significant and high risk (e.g. aircraft development) and may seek means of spreading it to the stage that proof-of-concept is obtained.\n\nIn the case of small and medium firms, entities such as venture capitalists or business angels, can enter the scene and help to materialize technologies. Venture capitalists accept both the costs and uncertainties of R&D, and that of market acceptance, in reward for high returns when the technology proves itself. Apart from finance, they may provide networking, management and marketing support. Venture capital connotes financial as well as human capital.\n\nLarger firms may opt for Joint R&D or work in a consortium for the early phase of development. Such vehicles are called strategic alliances – strategic partnerships.\nWith both venture capital funding and strategic (research) alliances, when business gains begin to neutralize development costs (the TLC crosses the X-axis), the ownership of the technology starts to undergo change.\n\nIn the case of smaller firms, venture capitalists help clients enter the stock market for obtaining substantially larger funds for development, maturation of technology, product promotion and to meet marketing costs. A major route is through initial public offering (IPO) which invites risk funding by the public for potential high gain. At the same time, the IPOs enable venture capitalists to attempt to recover expenditures already incurred by them through part sale of the stock pre-allotted to them (subsequent to the listing of the stock on the stock exchange). When the IPO is fully subscribed, the assisted enterprise becomes a corporation and can more easily obtain bank loans, etc. if needed.\n\nStrategic alliance partners, allied on research, pursue separate paths of development with the incipient technology of common origin but pool their accomplishments through instruments such as 'cross-licensing'. Generally, contractual provisions among the members of the consortium allow a member to exercise the option of independent pursuit after joint consultation; in which case the optee owns all subsequent development.\n\nThe ascent stage of the technology usually refers to some point above Point A in the TLC diagram but actually it commences when the R&D portion of the TLC curve inflects (only that the cashflow is negative and unremunerative to Point A). The ascent is the strongest phase of the TLC because it is here that the technology is superior to alternatives and can command premium profit or gain. The slope and duration of the ascent depends on competing technologies entering the domain, although they may not be \"as successful\" in that period. Strongly patented technology extends the duration period.\n\nThe TLC begins to flatten out (the region shown as M) when equivalent or challenging technologies come into the competitive space and begin to eat away marketshare.\n\nTill this stage is reached, the technology-owning firm would tend to exclusively enjoy its profitability, preferring \"not\" to license it. If an overseas opportunity does present itself, the firm would prefer to set up a controlled subsidiary rather than license a third party.\n\nThe maturity phase of the technology is a period of stable and remunerative income but its competitive viability can persist over the larger timeframe marked by its 'vital life'. However, there may be a tendency to license out the technology to third parties during this stage to lower risk of decline in profitability (or competitivity) and to expand financial opportunity.\n\nThe exercise of this option is, generally, inferior to seeking participatory exploitation; in other words, engagement in joint venture, typically in regions where the technology would be in the \"ascent phase\",as say, a developing country. In addition to providing financial opportunity it allows the technology-owner a degree of control over its use. Gain flows from the two streams of investment-based and royalty incomes. Further, the vital life of the technology is enhanced in such strategy.\n\nAfter reaching a point such as D in the above diagram, the earnings from the technology begin to decline rather rapidly. To prolong the life cycle, owners of technology might try to license it out at some point L when it can still be attractive to firms in other markets. This, then, traces the lengthening path, LL'. Further, since the decline is the result of competing rising technologies in this space, licenses may be attracted to the general lower cost of the older technology (than what prevailed during its vital life).\n\nLicenses obtained in this phase are 'straight licenses'. They are free of direct control from the owner of the technology (as would otherwise apply, say, in the case of a joint-venture). Further, there may be fewer restrictions placed on the licensee in the employment of the technology.\n\nThe utility, viability, and thus the cost of straight-licenses depends on the estimated 'balance life' of the technology. For instance, should the key patent on the technology have expired, or would expire in a short while, the residual viability of the technology may be limited, although balance life may be governed by other criteria such as knowhow which could have a longer life if properly protected.\n\n\"It is important to note that the license has no way of knowing the stage at which the prime, and competing technologies, are on their TLCs\". It would, of course, be evident to competing licensor firms, and to the originator, from the growth, saturation or decline of the profitability of their operations.\n\nThe license may, however, be able to approximate the stage by vigorously negotiating with the licensor and competitors to determine costs and licensing terms. A lower cost, or easier terms, \"may\" imply a declining technology.\n\nIn any case, access to technology in the decline phase is a large risk that the licensee accepts. (In a joint-venture this risk is substantially reduced by licensor sharing it). Sometimes, financial guarantees from the licensor may work to reduce such risk and can be negotiated.\n\nThere are instances when, even though the technology declines to becoming a technique, it may still contain important knowledge or experience which the licensee firm cannot learn of without help from the originator. This is often the form that \"technical service\" and \"technical assistance\" contracts take (encountered often in developing country contracts). Alternatively, consulting agencies may fill this role.\n\nAccording to the Encyclopedia of Earth, \"In the simplest formulation, innovation can be thought of as being composed of research, development, demonstration, and deployment.\"\n\n\"Technology development cycle\" describes the process of a new technology through the stages of technological maturity:\n\n"}
{"id": "44039880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44039880", "title": "The Cuban Bartenders’ Club", "text": "The Cuban Bartenders’ Club\n\nThe Cuban Bartenders' Club known in Spanish as Club de Cantineros de Cuba is a guild that brings together the bartenders of the Republic of Cuba.\n\nThe Bartenders Club of the Republic of Cuba was officially founded in Havana, Cuba, on 27 June 1924, following the approval of the governor of the City of Havana. The club is the oldest national bartenders' guild to have been officially recorded anywhere in the world.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Union of Café Employees gathered together the workforce of Cuba's hospitality industry. This association began to have major divisions among its members due to different political and social opinions, leading to its complete disintegration.\n\nThe bartender Manuel Blanco Cuétara, who had been expelled at that time from the Union of Café Employees due to internal disagreements, was one of the first to consider the creation of the Bartenders Fraternal Club of the Republic of Cuba, together with Cristóbal Alonso Álvarez, José Perales Mora (who had previously suggested to Manuel the creation of a bartending section independent from the Union of Café Employees) and José Cuervo Fernández. This idea was shared with other bartenders in Havana and Manuel Blanco himself created the first draft of the directive that would govern them.\nOn 28 May 1924, around ten to twelve people interested in the project met to establish an exclusive group of bartenders with sporting and socializing intentions at its heart.\n\nThe group met again on 5 June, but this time they were joined by a larger number of people that had shown an interest in the club. Throughout the meeting, which was chaired by José Cuervo himself with Cristóbal Alonso acting as secretary, the new directive was discussed and approved with certain amendments. José Cuervo proposed to lend the club some money that could be returned to him in small installments and would be invested in acquiring the materials, furniture and products necessary for the opening, thus avoiding depending on external traders (even if they were good friends).\n\nThe Club established its first headquarters in a venue in Calle Bernaza with Obrapía in Old Havana, which was then moved to an apartment rented in the upper floors of the building located in Malecón, 15. As the tax to be paid for the apartment was considered excessive, the group decided to move to the ground floor of Avenida de la República, 69 (today's Calle San Lázaro).\n\nFor various reasons, the official headquarters were then re-located to the upper floor of Calle Prado, 105, opposite the Capitolio Nacional (National Capitol of Cuba), on 27 January 1927. On 31 May 1941, the office was moved permanently to a four-story house in Paseo del Prado, 111 that showcased the logo of the association on the ground floor. The club's logo included a symbol of the sun and the sphere of the universe as well as triangles and the phrase \"Fraternity and Progress\" which, although there is no firm evidence, could indicate that the Masonic institution was present in the creation and in the foundation of the club.\n\nThe building was purchased from the Canadian Bank of Commerce for 24,000 Cuban Pesos, which were sourced from the club's funds in December 1939. The building was renovated and adapted to the needs of the club and was officially opened in June 1941.\nThe venue was used for numerous activities and festivities on Bartender's Day which was then celebrated on the first Sunday of October (currently taking place annually on 7 October).\n\nThe celebrations on Bartender's Day also took place around the city of Havana, in locations such as the Gardens of La Tropical, La Polar and Tropicana de la Habana. It also became a tradition for the bartenders to plant a tree on that day to guarantee, in an ecological fashion, the continuity of the natural beauty of the city.\n\nThe first cocktail competition organized by the Bartenders Club took place on 16–24 November 1936 and demonstrated the high level of maturity of the young organization. The competition lasted seven days and a different spirit was used in each challenge, e.g.: on the first day, the contestants had to use white and red vermouth, rum on the second, cognac or champagne on the third, gin on the fourth, whiskey on the fifth and so on.\n\n\"El Bar\" was the first magazine to be published by the club. The magazine was created following an agreement between the members of the organization, which was approved by the General Assembly on 28 May 1926, but it was extremely short-lived.\nVarious projects were undertaken over the following years, but none of them managed to fit the interests of the club. In 1930, the first cocktail recipe book in Cuba was edited and collated by the Bartenders Club.\nIn September 1956, a monthly professional magazine called COCTEL was edited and published for the first time. Among other numerous and varied articles, one of the most prominent features explained the importance for bartenders to learn to speak English as a complement to their work and urged them to participate in the classes being offered at the club. The classes followed an effective method that included holding conversations around the bartending profession and simple grammatical training. This magazine continued to be published until 1960.\n\nThe Cuban Bartenders Club continued as an association and was officially re-registered on 6 February 1998. A year later the club changed its name to Cuban Bartenders Association.\nThe association's main objectives include: \n\nBartenders have the opportunity to showcase the skills acquired through educational courses at varied regional and national cocktail events organized by the Cuban Bartenders Association, including:\nThe Fabio Delgado in Memoriam National Competition is the most important cocktail competition in the country, covering all levels of bartending. The competition pays tribute to one of the top bartending professionals and teachers in Cuba, Fabio Delgado, who worked to support the rescue of the Cuban Bartenders Association and died on 7 February 2003.\nThe bartenders who finish in 1st and 2nd place at the National Fabio Delgado In Memoriam Competition have the opportunity to participate respectively in the World Championship and in the Pan-American Competition (which also include the Friendship Cup and the Presidents Cup). These competitions take place annually and are held in the country selected by the IBA (International Bartenders Association), of which the Cuban Bartenders Association has been a member since 2002.\n\nGlobal IBA: Cuba Libre, Daiquirí and Mojito (Cuban classic cocktails) and Adam y Eva (winning cocktail at the world championship).\nPan-American IBA: Cohiba Dry, Ocaso, Sabor Mediodía and Havana Fusión – all winning cocktails at the Pan-American competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "35803252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35803252", "title": "The History of Human Marriage", "text": "The History of Human Marriage\n\nThe History of Human Marriage is an 1891 book about the history of human marriage by the Finnish philosopher Edvard Westermarck. The work is a classic in its field.\n\n\"The History of Human Marriage\" is an overview of the world history of human marriage.\n\nWestermarck argues that marriage is a social institution that rests on a biological foundation, and developed through a process in which human males came to live together with human females for sexual gratification, companionship, mutual economic aid, procreation, and the joint rearing of offspring.\n\nDavid Blankenhorn calls the book one of the best histories of human marriage, and considers it deservedly famous. He comments, however, that it leaves out a great deal of material while \"skimming too quickly over too much.\" Blankenhorn believes, however, that scholarship subsequent to Westermarck's has tended to support his conclusions.\n\nThe Finnish philosopher Jaakko Hintikka calls the work a monumental study and a classic in its field, but notes that it is now antiquated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1250200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1250200", "title": "Types of hijab", "text": "Types of hijab\n\nThis table of types of hijab describes terminologically distinguished styles of Islamic clothing commonly associated with the word \"hijab\".\n\nThe Arabic word \"hijāb\" can be translated as \"cover, wrap, curtain, veil, screen, partition\", among other meanings. In the Quran it refers to notions of separation, protection and covering in both literal and metaphorical senses. Subsequently, the word has evolved in meaning and now usually denotes a Muslim woman's veil or the notion of separation between the sexes. In English, the term refers predominantly to the Islamic head covering for women and its underlying religious precepts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39216479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39216479", "title": "Unclaimed", "text": "Unclaimed\n\nUnclaimed is a 2013 Canadian documentary film about a man who claims to be former Special Forces Green Beret Master Sgt. John Hartley Robertson, who was declared dead after being shot down over Laos on a classified mission on 20 May 1968. The documentary is written, directed, and produced by Michael Jorgensen. It follows Tom Faunce, a veteran of the Vietnam War, in tracking down the man who claimed to be Robertson. Faunce was skeptical of Robertson's identity but eventually became convinced. He convinced Jorgensen to make a documentary about Robertson's story as a way to unite the man with his American family.\n\nLeading up to the film's release, the validity of Robertson's identity was challenged by groups of Vietnam War veterans and groups that advocate the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue. Jean Robertson-Holley, Robertson's surviving sister, was convinced the man was her brother but initially declined DNA testing as unnecessary. Eventually she and her daughter (Robertson's niece) Gail Metcalf expressed openness to going through with testing. The documentary was screened at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival on , 2013. A day later, \"The Independent\" reported the contents of a memo from a 2009 report by the Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office that the man who claimed to be Robertson was actually Dang Tan Ngoc, \"a 76-year-old Vietnamese citizen of French origin who has a history of pretending to be US army veterans\".\n\nVietnam veteran Tom Faunce now works as a missionary in Vietnam, where he hears of an elderly man claiming to be Robertson. Faunce's meeting with the man spurs him to try to repatriate him, against the wishes of the U.S. government.\n\nThe man claiming to be Robertson states in the film that he was kept in a bamboo cage in the jungle by the North Vietnamese and tortured for a year. Then, confused and badly injured, he was released and married a Vietnamese woman who had helped to care for him, assuming the name of her dead husband. Aged 76 , he lives in a remote village in south-central Vietnam and is unable to remember his birthday or his American children's names, and is now only able to speak Vietnamese. Scenes include a meeting with a veteran who was trained by Robertson back in 1960, and who recognized him on sight.\n\n\"Unclaimed\" is written, directed, and produced by Michael Jorgensen. A veteran of the Vietnam War, Tom Faunce, had been on a humanitarian mission in southeast Asia in 2008 when he learned about John Hartley Robertson, a fellow soldier who was reported killed in action in the war, still alive in Vietnam. Faunce was skeptical when meeting Robertson but was eventually convinced of his identity. Faunce then contacted Jorgensen in 2012 to appeal to him to make a documentary as a way to help Robertson reunite with his family. Jorgensen was also skeptical but became convinced to make the documentary about Robertson. The filmmaker said he experienced difficulty with the U.S. military in making the documentary, such as being unable to contact Robertson's family. Jorgensen said a government source told him, \"It's not that the Vietnamese won't let him (Robertson) go; it's that our government doesn't want him.\"\n\nWith the publicity of \"Unclaimed\", the identity of the man who claimed to be Robertson was challenged. In the documentary, the \"Toronto Star\" reported the case made, \"There is physical proof of Robertson's birthplace, collected in dramatic fashion onscreen; a tearful meeting in Vietnam with a soldier who was trained by Robertson in 1960 and said he knew him on sight; and a heart-wrenching reunion with his only surviving sister — 80-year-old Jean Robertson-Holly [sic].\" Leading up to the film's premiere, Jorgensen said Robertson's American wife and two children had volunteered to participate in DNA testing but withdrew their intent. The filmmaker said, \"Somebody suggested to me maybe that's (because) the daughters don't want to know if it's him. It's kind of like, that was an ugly war. It was a long time ago. We just want it to go away... I don't know. What would compel you not to want to know if this person is your biological father?\"\nAfter the reunion, the \"Toronto Star\" said of the man who claimed to be Robertson, \"He is back in Vietnam and has no desire to leave, having fulfilled his one wish: to see his American family once more before he dies.\" The sister, Robertson-Holley, said it was \"not necessary\" to conduct DNA testing since she confidently identifies the man as her brother. Some groups of Vietnam War veterans and groups that advocate the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue questioned Robertson's identity. The \"Toronto Star\" reported, \"The film is already generating heated debate online, along with allegations the man claiming to be Robertson is a fraud.\" Robertson-Holley's daughter (Robertson's niece) Gail Metcalf said in response, \"I don't blame people. I think some of the vets who say that are truly trying to protect us. They don’t want us to be scammed and their hearts are in the right place.\" Robertson-Holley subsequently alleviated her adamant stance on DNA testing. Metcalf spoke for her mother, \"We plan to do it when we can. We haven't been able to do it yet. In the beginning, mom's position was we don't care if people doubt. We're not spotlight kind of people.\" Expensive medical bills related to her parents' critical injuries was cited as a reason for delaying DNA testing. The \"Toronto Star\" said in April 2013 pressure would likely increase when the documentary screens at the GI Film Festival in May 2013. Metcalf said, \"Of course we're more than willing. The bottom line is even if the DNA test came back negative, he’s still proven to be an American. My mother will never believe he is not her brother.\"\n\nOn , 2013, a day after the film's premiere, \"The Independent\" reported that a memo based on a 2009 report from the Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) said that the man who claimed to be Robertson was actually Dang Tan Ngoc, \"a 76-year-old Vietnamese citizen of French origin who has a history of pretending to be US army veterans\". The memo said Ngoc came to the attention of the U.S. military in 2006 due to his claim of being Robertson. Ngoc withdrew his claim at the time but he made the claim once again in 2008. He was taken to the U.S. embassy in Cambodia to be fingerprinted, and his fingerprints did not match Robertson's on record. \"The Independent\" said, \"Reports suggest Ngoc could have been impersonating Sgt Robertson since around 1982, with some Vietnam War veterans saying he could have possibly conned veteran groups out of thousands of pounds over the last 30 years.\" According to the newspaper, in 1991, Paramilitary Operations Officer Billy Waugh led an investigative team to Ngoc and was able to retrieve his DNA. The \"Toronto Star\" reported members of the surviving family said they never submitted DNA samples. A DPMO statement, quoted by \"Soldier of Fortune\" magazine, indicates \"...mitochondrial DNA sequences from the hair samples obtained were compared to family reference samples taken from Robertson’s brother and one of his sisters.\"\n\nIn response to the controversy, the GI Film Festival, which exhibited \"Unclaimed\" after the Toronto premier, posted a disclaimer on its site.\n\nWhen Jorgensen was asked by the \"Toronto Star\" if he believed the man's identity, he replied, \"It does not matter what I think. There's no doubt in the family.\" Jorgensen did confirm to \"Maclean's\" magazine, however, he believes \"the circumstantial evidence strongly indicates this man is John Hartley Robertson.\"\n\nIn the wake of the controversy, the Robertson family raised funds in late 2013 to conduct their own independent DNA test. With results in hand, the family, on their funding site, GoFundMe admitted the DNA of the man claiming to be Robertson did not match the DNA of Robertson's nephew.\n\nThe filmmaker Michael Jorgensen in an interview with \"Stars and Stripes\" suggested people should not focus on the failed DNA test but an isotope test conducted on Ngoc's last remaining tooth. Jorgensen believes isotope test suggests Ngoc is likely an American. \"Stars and Stripes\" noted the isotope results match other areas of the world and failed to eliminate the possibility Ngoc grew up in another non-American location that matches the isotope levels measured in the tooth. In comments to the \"Stars and Stripes\" article a responder suggested the test could say nothing definitive as the filmmaker only tested one tooth. The responder suggested one needs to test two teeth that form at different times. If both teeth share similar isotope levels then one could say the person definitively grew up in a given geographic area. One cannot, by testing only one tooth, eliminate the possibility the man in the movie was moved around as a child and the isotope levels represent an \"average\", which just happen to correspond to some place in the U.S., an area with very diverse geography where one is likely to find a match within error bars.\n\nMichael Jorgensen sought for \"Unclaimed\" to screen in his home country of Canada first. The documentary was screened for the first time at an invitation-only patrons' screening at the Metro Cinema at the Garneau in early January 2013. It then premiered at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival on , 2013. The documentary had its first American screening at the GI Film Festival in Washington, D.C. on , 2013.\n\nJames Adams, reviewing for \"The Globe and Mail\", gave the documentary three out of four stars and described it, \"Part mystery, part forensic investigation, part journey to troubled pasts, part redemption song, \"Unclaimed\" is all heart.\" Linda Barnard, who covered \"Unclaimed\" in the \"Toronto Star\", also reviewed the documentary, \"Canadian director Michael Jorgensen’s emotional story... seems unbelievable. To the filmmaker's credit, Jorgensen lets the audience decide whether or not to believe it as he follows Vietnam vet Tom Faunce’s quest to make good on a pledge to leave no man behind.\"\n\n\"Unclaimed\" was re-released in May 2014, playing in New York City and Los Angeles. Martin Tsai of the \"LA Times\" notes \"Michael Jorgensen...doesn't do serious investigative work to check [Ngoc's] claim that he's John Hartley Robertson\". \"The Hollywood Reporter\" assess the film's commercial potential as \"slim for a doc that...seemingly has little interest in uncovering the truth.\" \"The Village Voice\" calls \"Unclaimed\" \"a nakedly manipulative film\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3178677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3178677", "title": "Urban Splash", "text": "Urban Splash\n\nUrban Splash is a British company which regenerates decaying industrial warehouses, mills, Victorian terraced houses and other buildings. The company has its head office in Castlefield, Manchester, but works across the United Kingdom.\n\nThe company has won 316 awards to date for its work in transforming these scheme, 46 of which have been awarded by the RIBA, this is the most any developer has received from the institute. It is currently shortlisted for more awards including three from the Daily Telegraph British Homes Awards.\n\nIn September 2012 the company reported pre-tax losses of £9.3 million and debts of £234.4 million for the previous year. In 2014 Urban Splash was refinanced and restructured.\n\nEstablished in 1993, the company has transformed disused buildings across the United Kingdom with schemes in cities including Castlefield, Chips and Ducie House in Manchester, Chimney Pot Park in Salford, Lister Mills in Bradford, Saxton in Leeds, Park Hill in Sheffield, The Vanilla and Tea Factories and The Matchworks in Liverpool, The Rotunda and Fort Dunlop in Birmingham, Lakeshore in Bristol, Stalybridge and Plymouth (Royal William Yard).\n\nThe success in transforming these projects has been documented in the press with articles on Chimney Pot Park in Salford in The Times. The Observer wrote about Park Hill: \"The cleverly planned, well-dimensioned flats have been reinstated, but with bigger windows and greater openness than before. The streets in the sky are back\".\n\nUrban Splash also place emphasis on design, employing well respected architects such as Foster and Partners, ShedKM, Will Alsop, FAT Architects and Glenn Howells. In 2012, the company published a book documenting its relationship with architects and the schemes it had completed. The book was reviewed in The Times newspaper who said: \"When it comes to rescuing the great industrial landmarks of the past, Urban Splash is in a class of its own\". \nRecent and ongoing developments at the company include two landmarks in Birmingham: The Rotunda and Fort Dunlop, the redevelopment of Morecambe's famous Art Deco Midland Hotel, which was completed in May 2008, Saxton in Leeds and its current major scheme at Park Hill in Sheffield, where it is working on the first phase of developing new homes and workspaces in the 1960s Grade II listed building.\n\nIn September 2008 Urban Splash announced it would be making significant redundancies due to the downturn in the UK property market. This downturn has led to delays on some projects.\n\nIn March 2010 it was announced by Urban Splash that they would be drawing up plans for an £80 million project to renovate the Pleasureland Southport site and construct an outdoor heated swimming pool, while expanding the marine lake and construct a winter garden, which will all be housed under a landmark atrium inspired by the Eden project. This development could form part of the plot, which will be known as Southport Marine Park.\n\nIn 2012 Lakeshore's residents moved into the old tobacco factory in Bristol, a highly sustainable apartment complex. The apartments come complete with underfloor heating powered by a Biomass Boiler and a guide promoting sustainable living as part of the package. As of 19 February 2015, Urban Splash sold the freehold of the site to Adriatic Land 3 Limited.\n\nIn October 2013, Urban Splash sold one of their undeveloped acquisitions – the former Sunbeam motorcycle factory site, off the Penn Road island in Wolverhampton – which had been disused since 1999. Property developer and former rugby player Liam Wordley bought the site, traditionally known as \"Sunbeamland\", with the intention to convert for residential use. Mr Wordley had previously regenerated the former Stafford Street drill hall in Wolverhampton into student accommodation. Planning consent for 115 homes was granted by Wolverhampton City Council in March 2014, including re-instatement of the famed Sunbeam lettering on the front of the building.\n\nIn 2014 Urban Splash refinanced £135 million of debt in conjunction with entering into a joint venture with The Pears Group, and restructured itself.\n\nUrban Splash's modular houses were launched in 2016 at New Islington in Manchester where all 43 properties sold out and fully occupied. At the time the Telegraph said that the scheme was \"the blueprint for a pioneering housing concept\" while the Sunday Times said that it would \"turn buyers from passive consumers into the architects of their own dream homes\". Wallpaper* magazine said that the concept would \"make volume housebuilders sit up and take notice\".\n\nThe modular housing concept evolved further in March 2018 with the launch of 10 Fab Houses, two storey modular homes created in the factory and designed by architect George Clarke.\n\nUrban Splash was founded by Tom Bloxham, a graduate of the University of Manchester, and Jonathan Falkingham, an architecture graduate from Liverpool University. Bloxham's initial business experience was selling pop posters in Affleck's Palace in Manchester. Bloxham branched out as a landlord opening the Northern Quarter Arcade adjacent to Affleck's Palace. He then expanded into Liverpool, opening a shopping arcade called the Liverpool Palace and then into licensed premises with the founding of the Baa Bar in Liverpool together with Falkingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "49266449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49266449", "title": "Uzair Baloch", "text": "Uzair Baloch\n\nUzair Jan Baloch (Urdu/) is a crime lord originally from Lyari in Karachi, Pakistan He is a key figurehead of Karachi's underworld and is long associated with the notorious gang war in his hometown, Lyari. He is also the former chief of the Peoples Aman Committee, which was a militant group linked to the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP). Baloch is accused in several cases involving murder, extortion and terrorism, and after being arrested many times, became a fugitive wanted by law enforcement agencies. Due to his influential ties, it is alleged that Baloch enjoyed political patronage and was \"protected\" by the PPP from facing charges. Baloch denies all the charges against him and says they are \"politically motivated\".\n\nIn September 2013, Baloch fled to Chabahar, Iran, after the Sindh Rangers launched a crackdown in Karachi against elements of organised crime. A dual Iranian citizen, he was contacted by Iranian intelligence there to provide information on Pakistan's security apparatus and the political situation in Karachi. He moved onwards to Oman and in December 2015, he was arrested by the Interpol in Dubai while still in hiding. In 2016, he reappeared in Karachi, only to be arrested by the Rangers during a targeted operation. That same year, the Supreme Court of Pakistan took suo moto notice of his involvement in the murder of gangster Arshad Pappu, bringing his activities into attention.\n\nUzair Jan Baloch was born on 11 January 1979 in Lyari, Karachi. His father, Faiz Muhammad (known as Faizu Mama), was a transporter who originated from Iranian Balochistan. Some members of his family live in Iran and hold dual Iranian-Pakistani citizenship. In 2006, Uzair fled to Iran while escaping an operation against Lyari's street gangs. There, he obtained an Iranian passport and national identity card. In around 2010, his Iranian documents expired and he renewed them.\n\nBaloch started off his career in politics as an independent candidate in the 2001 municipal elections for Lyari's mayorship, but lost to Habib Hassan of the Pakistan Peoples Party. In 2003, his father was kidnapped for ransom and brutally murdered by Arshad Pappu, son of the Lyari drug lord Haji Lalu. This is said to have marked Uzair's foray into organised crime, as he set out to avenge his father's murder. He initially pursued his father's murder case in courts, but received threats from Lalu's gang. Arshad Pappu happened to be a rival of gangster Rehman Dakait, Uzair's first cousin, with the two involved in a bitter conflict over land and drugs in Lyari. His cousin Rehman invited him to join his gang, and while Uzair initially refused, he later acquiesced as they shared a common enemy. Members of the two gangs started killing each other, with casualties reaching the hundreds. In 2009, Dakait was killed during a shootout with police and Uzair Baloch took over his gang. In 2013, Arshad Pappu and his brother Yasir Arafat were eventually kidnapped by Uzair's gang, tortured and beheaded. Their corpses were paraded before being burnt, and the ashes dumped in a sewer. Uzair Baloch and his associate Baba Ladla reportedly played football with the severed heads. \"The Friday Times\" quoted Baloch as having said: \"It is karma – what goes around comes around\", referring to the avenging of his father's murder.\n\nIn 2003, Uzair was arrested by a Sindh police SP Chaudhry Aslam but was later released on bail due to his links with politicians. After the encounter of Rehman Dakait, Uzair became the new gang leader and was involved in many criminal activities. He also became chief of Peoples Aman Committee. Uzair also had links with Pakistan Peoples Party and was protected by PPP until 2012. In June 2014, Sindh Government issued his red warrants and head money of Rs.2 million. He was wanted for more than 50 cases of extortions, target killings of policemen and gang members. Uzair left Pakistan after his red warrants were issued. On 29 December 2015, he was arrested by Interpol from Dubai International Airport. He was taken into custody by Interpol and was brought back to Pakistan. He was travelling from Muscat to Dubai. On January 30, 2016, Sindh Rangers took Uzair into custody after getting his physical remand from Sindh High Court's administrative judge for the Anti Terrorism Courts. He is currently in Mithadar hostel, Karachi under the custody of Sindh Rangers. In February 2016, Uzair's wife Samina Baloch filed application in the Sindh High Court to seek orders for his medical examination and permission for his family members to meet him.\n\nAccording to Pakistani media reports, Uzair Baloch owns a four-story mansion in Lyari with an indoor swimming pool, in addition to a house worth 1.1 million dirhams in Dubai, an office in Dubai International City worth 0.5 million dirhams, a bungalow and plot in Muscat worth 0.9 million and 0.6 million dirhams respectively, and a property in Chabahar worth Rs. 10 million. The properties are registered under the names of his close relatives or friends. He also has four bank accounts in Dubai holding over 1 million dirhams, and acres of land in Chakiwara and Hub worth several millions of rupees.\n"}
{"id": "30695401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30695401", "title": "Variantology", "text": "Variantology\n\nVariantology has been conceived as an international research project with the aim of developing a critical appraisal of the established concepts of “media”. The concept of a medium is thus opened up to approaches and disciplines that up to now have remained outside the contemporary discourse on media, such as theology, various musicology, aspects of natural sciences, fine arts or classical philology. Furthermore, it is opened up to cultures of knowledge that have long been excluded from the western discourse, like the oriental and Arabic-Islamic culture. Variantology also attempts to explore how reciprocally these disciplines then become open to thinking in categories and terms of media and communication. Consequently, the network of research that constitutes the Variantology project involves scholars based in academic institutions as well as artists, musicians and authors.\n\nTo come to a different understanding of media, a central part of research is the development of a network of scientists, artists and scholars who are engaged with the \"deep time relations“ between arts, sciences, and technologies. The term \"deep time relations“ refers to the notion of being a plurality of traversals through the genealogy of what we call media today. The underlying theoretical center is Michel Foucault’s concept of genealogy, which he developed from Friedrich Nietzsche’s thinking about morality as a historical- and social-generated construction. Foucault's approach in this connection was to comprehend history as a constitution of knowledge, of discourses, of objectification and so on, detached from an idea of historical subjects and previously unquestioned categories of western (Eurocentric) culture and power.\n\nAn integral part of the project is the annual international workshop. The first three Variantology workshops were held at Academy of Media Arts Cologne, the fourth one at UdK in Berlin, and the 5th at Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele III in Naples, Italy.\n"}
{"id": "1179525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1179525", "title": "Willis Conover", "text": "Willis Conover\n\nWillis Clark Conover, Jr. (December 18, 1920 – May 17, 1996) was a jazz producer and broadcaster on the Voice of America for over forty years. He produced jazz concerts at the White House, the Newport Jazz Festival, and for movies and television. By arranging concerts where people of all races were welcome, he is credited with desegregating Washington D.C. nightclubs. Conover is credited with keeping interest in jazz alive in the countries of Eastern Europe through his nightly broadcasts during the Cold War.\n\nAs a young man Conover was interested in science fiction, and published a science fiction fanzine, \"Science Fantasy Correspondent\". This brought him into contact with horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. The correspondence between Lovecraft, who was at the end of his life, and the young Conover, has been published as \"Lovecraft at Last\" (Carrolton-Clark, 1975; reprint 2004).\n\nConover's father had intended for him to attend The Citadel and follow his family's tradition of military service. Instead, he attended the Maryland State Teacher's College at Salisbury, Maryland, and became a radio announcer for WTBO in Cumberland, Maryland.\n\nHe later moved to Washington, D.C., and focused on jazz in his programming, especially the Duke Ellington hour on Saturday nights. His guests on this program and Saturday morning shows included many important artists, such as Boyd Raeburn.\n\nConover came to work at the Voice of America, and eventually became a legend among jazz lovers, primarily due to the hour-long program on the Voice of America called \"Voice of America Jazz Hour\". Known for his sonorous baritone voice, many would argue that he was the most important presenter on Voice of America. His slow delivery and the use of scripts written in \"special English\" made his programmes more widely accessible and he is said to have become the first teacher of English to a whole generation of East European jazz lovers. Conover was not well known in the United States, even among jazz aficionados, as the Voice of America did not broadcast domestically except on shortwave, but his visits to Eastern Europe and Soviet Union brought huge crowds and star treatment for him.\nHe was a celebrity figure in the Soviet Union, where jazz was very popular and the Voice of America was a prime source of information as well as music.\n\nIn 1956, Conover conducted a series of interviews with jazz luminaries like Duke Ellington, Billie Holiday, Stan Getz, Peggy Lee, Stan Kenton, Benny Goodman, and Art Tatum. His interview with Tatum is noted as \"the only known in-depth recorded interview with the pianist\". These interviews were selected by the Library of Congress as a 2010 addition to the National Recording Registry, which selects recordings annually that are \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nHe died of lung cancer. He had been a smoker for 57 years.\n\nIn 1990, Conover was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Music from Berklee College of Music. \n\nIn 2015, the University of North Texas announced its Willis Conover Collection would make digitized copies of Conover's programs available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "16089782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16089782", "title": "Women in Angola", "text": "Women in Angola\n\nAlmost no research existed on the role of women in Angolan society in the late 1980s, there are a few generalities that could be drawn. In rural Angola, as in many African economies, most of the population engaged in agricultural activities. Women performed much of the agricultural labor. Marriage generally involved family, political, and economic interests as well as personal considerations and gains. The household was the most important unit of production and was usually composed of several generations. The women grew and prepared most of the food for the household and performed all other domestic work. Because of their major role in food production, women shared relatively equal status with men, who spent much of their time hunting or tending cattle.\n\nIt has been calculated that almost 25 million adults and children were living with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa at the end of 2005. During 2005, an estimated two million AIDS-related deaths occurred in Africa, leaving behind some twelve million orphans. A study of nearly 2000 individuals in 2005 shows that intervention programs that promote condom use are very effective in reducing this number, by addressing common myths surrounding birth control. Separate studies have shown that HIV positive pregnant women have much worse mental health than those who don't and that two-thirds of this same group had severe mental distress.\n\nAngola has a high breast cancer mortality rate, which has been attributed to a lack of symptom awareness that leads to a late diagnosis. In a survey of 595 students in university, around 65% were not aware that breast cancer was one of the deadliest cancers in Sub-Saharan Africa, and that less than 35% knew that it could also affect men. Work is being put in place that aims to use universities as well as popular social media networks (Facebook, Twitter) to further teach students about awareness and self-examinations, which students also admitted that they were not familiar with.\n\nMany women belonged to the Organization of Angolan Women (Organização da Mulher Angolana—OMA). Before independence, the OMA was instrumental in mobilizing political support for the MPLA among thousands of Angolan refugees. After independence, and especially after the creation of the MPLA-PT in 1977, the mass organizations came under the strict control of the party and were given the role of intermediaries between the MPLA-PT and the population. Women's participation in the government has not increased at the rate that other countries in similar political environments have, but women-friendly policies have still been enacted since the 1980s. As stated in the Quota Project of 2012, the National Assembly (Angola) consisted of 35% women, and the number of female justices in Constitutional Court of Angola was 4 out of 11. Angolan media is also to blame for the gender-stereotyped roles present in current day Angola. One example of this can be found the highly publicized Miss Angola program, endorsed by many provinces of Angola who spend large sums of money promoting the event.\n\nAnother program of which the Angolan government created in order to elevate women's status is the Ministry for Family and Women, a group that helped separate women's issues from the political agenda. However, even with new programs like these, little progress has been made to institutionalize proper programs to reform things like voting rates and pregnancy awareness. The Ministry for Family and Women continues to be one of the most underfunded programs in Angola, giving it little room to expand or produce tangible results.\n\nIn 1987 the OMA had a membership of 1.3 million women, most of whom lived in rural areas. Among the many contributions of OMA's members were the establishment of literacy programs and service in health and social service organizations. Most OMA members, however, were poor and unemployed. In 1988 only 10 percent of MPLA-PT members were women, although more women were finding jobs in teaching and professions from which they had been excluded in the past.\n\n (Data as of 1989.)\n"}
{"id": "39698731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39698731", "title": "Women in Burundi", "text": "Women in Burundi\n\nFollowing the recommendations of a Universal Periodic Review (UPR) in 2008, Burundi ratified the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance (ICCPED), Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (OP-CEDAW), and the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT).\n\nHowever, Women in Burundi are vastly underrepresented at all levels of decision making in the government.\n\nThe phenomenon of sexual violence, particularly against women and children, is common in the country. The Initiative for Peacebuilding noted in a 2010 study on gender issues in Burundi that there is a strong correlation between areas of intense military activity and high incidences of sexual violence.\n\nAmnesty International claims rape, in addition to physical mutilation, was used during the Burundian Civil War as 'a strategy of war'. In 2004 the Hutu rebel group, Forces of National Liberation (FNL), claimed responsibility for killing 160 Congolese Tutsi refugees in a United Nations camp at Gatumba near the Congo border in Burundi. The attack was strongly condemned by the U.N. Security Council, which issued a statement of outrage at the fact that \"most of the victims were women, children and babies who were shot dead and burned in their shelters.\"\n\nThe \"Fédération de Football du Burundi\", the country's national association, created a woman's football programme in 2000. By 2006, there were just 455 registered women players, and the absence of a thriving women's game has been an obstacle for the national team. Lydia Nsekera is the head of the national football association.\n\nOutside the national federation, the Commission nationale du football féminin was established by the 1990s, and a league and women's teams were organised in the same period in Bujumbura.\n\nSylvie Kinigi - Prime Minister and acting President of Burundi.\n"}
{"id": "10813621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10813621", "title": "Yine language", "text": "Yine language\n\nPiro is a Maipurean language spoken in Peru. It belongs to the Piro group which also includes Iñapari (†) and Apurinã. The principal variety is Yine. The Manchineri who live in Brazil (Acre) and reportedly also in Bolivia speak what may be a dialect of Yine (Aikhenvald, Kaufman). A vocabulary labeled \"Canamaré\" is \"so close to Piro [Yine] as to count as Piro\", but has been a cause of confusion with the unrelated Kanamarí language.\n\nThis language is also called Contaquiro, Pira, Piro, Pirro, Simiranch, or Simirinche. \"Cushichineri\" has been reported as a language, but is actually a family name used with Whites (Matteson 1965). The name \"Mashco\" has sometimes been incorrectly applied to the Yine. (See Mashco Piro.)\n\nAs of 2000, essentially all of the 4,000 ethnic Yine people speak the language. They live in the Ucayali and Cusco Departments, near the Ucayali River, and near the Madre de Dios River in the Madre de Dio Region in Peru. Literacy is comparatively high. A dictionary has been published in the language and the language is taught alongside Spanish in some Yine schools. There are also a thousand speakers of Machinere.\n\nPiro has an active–stative syntax.\n\n"}
