{"id": "32431127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32431127", "title": "2011 ALBA Games", "text": "2011 ALBA Games\n\nThe IV ALBA Games (Spanish: \"Juegos del ALBA Bicentenario\") is a multi-sport event held between 17–30 July 2010 in ten different states of Venezuela. The games are organized by the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas (ALBA).\n\nThe following countries are expected to compete. The number of competitors qualified by each delegation is indicated in parentheses.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48603826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48603826", "title": "2015 Bamako hotel attack", "text": "2015 Bamako hotel attack\n\nOn 20 November 2015, Islamist militants took 170 hostages and killed 20 of them in a mass shooting at the Radisson Blu hotel in Bamako, the capital city of Mali. Malian commandos raided the hotel and freed the surviving hostages. Al-Mourabitoun claimed that it carried out the attack \"in cooperation with\" Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb; an Al Qaeda member confirmed that the two groups cooperated in the attack.\n\nFollowing the Libyan civil war, many ethnic Tuareg who had fought for the Gaddafi government and the rebels took their weapons and left for Azawad (a region in Northern Mali that the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (MNLA) wants to be an independent state). Following several previously failed Tuareg rebellions, the MNLA managed to take over the area and declare independence. However, the secular movement was soon overrun by Islamist-oriented groups such as MOJWA and Ansar Dine. The French launched a military operation that ousted the rebels, with additional military support from the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). However, simmering tensions and irregular incidents continued to occur. The Macina Liberation Front is a new jihadist group operating in central and southern Mali led by the radical Muslim cleric Amadou Kouffa, a strong proponent of strict Islamic law in Mali. The group draws most of its support from the Fulani ethnic group, who are found across the Sahel region. Kouffa is a close ally of Ansar Dine leader Iyad ag Ghali. A Human Rights Watch report said the Macina Liberation Front militants had carried out serious abuses in parts of central Mali since January and killed at least five people they accused of being aligned to the government. The group has attacked police and military particularly in the Mopti region, most recently killing three soldiers in Tenenkou in August. The Malian military recently arrested Alaye Bocari, a man they say was a key MLF financier and Kouffa's right-hand man.\n\nThe Radisson Blu hotel in Bamako is in a business district that is close to the embassies, and is frequented by foreign businesspeople and government employees. It is part of a chain of up-market hotels that is operated by the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, which has headquarters in the United States and Belgium.\n\nTwo gunmen arrived at the hotel between 7 and 7:30 a.m.; according to a hotel employee, the men were driving a vehicle with diplomatic license plates. Malian army commander Modibo Nama Traoré said that at least 10 gunmen had stormed the hotel shouting \"Allahu Akbar\" before firing on guards and taking hostages. Guinean singer Sekouba Bambino, who was in the hotel but escaped, reported that the perpetrators were speaking in English. This was supported by many other witnesses, who said the attackers spoke something that was neither Arabic nor local.\n\nKassim Traoré, a Malian journalist, said that hostages were asked to recite the \"shahada\" in order to get released. Soon after, Malian special forces stormed the hotel. According to the hotel operators, 125 guests and 13 employees were inside the hotel when the siege began. According to General Didier Dacko of the Malian Army, \"about 100 hostages\" were taken at the beginning of the siege. The Associated Press and Al Jazeera have reported that in the chaos of the initial attack, many present were able to escape, but around 170 people were held hostage.\n\nA delegation of the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie was in the hotel at the time of the attack. Ten Chinese citizens; twenty Indian citizens; about a dozen American citizens, including personnel from the US Embassy; seven Algerian citizens, including six diplomats; two Russian citizens; two Moroccan citizens; seven Turkish Airlines staff; and an unknown number of French citizens were reported to have been among those taken hostage.Two Canadian mining executives were some of the last hostages rescued. Twelve crew from Air France, who were also in the hotel, were extracted and safely released. Three United Nations staff were safely removed from the hotel, but it remains unknown how many were caught inside. Several delegates from MINUSMA were present at the hotel attending a meeting on the peace process in the country. More than 100 hostages were freed.\n\nUN peacekeepers supported the Malian Armed Forces by reinforcing security around the hotel. 25 U.S. Special Forces were in Bamako at the time of the attack and assisted Malian forces in evacuating civilians to secure locations. An official from the U.S. Defense Department said that 22 military and civilian department personnel were in the city, including five people who were at the hotel. However, he added that everyone was accounted for and there were no reports of injuries. One member, who was outside, entered the hotel to help first responders move civilians to secure locations while the Malian operation was ongoing. Another member helped at the Joint Operations Center, which was set up to respond to the incident. The official also said that the forces did not directly participate in the operation. A further 12 U.S. citizens were rescued by security forces, according to AFRICOM.\n\nAlthough there were earlier reports of more gunmen involved in the hotel attack, the investigation determined that in fact there were only two attackers.\n\nVictims\nMany people were injures in the attack among them were\n\n-Twenty Indian nationalities\n\n-Guneian singer Sekouba Bambino\n\n-Africa richest man - nigerian Aliko Dangote and his nephew \n\n-One Canadian diplomat - Annemarrie Desloges, she priviously died on 2013 attack in Westgate Mall in Kenya\n\n-One Cot'd Ivoiran - the owner of Grand Bassam hotel - where in 2016 was attacked\n\n-12 Russian, including 6 kids\n\n-13 American, including at least 5 people from the US Embassy in Bamako\\\n\n-10 Chinnese, including 4 year old girl\n\n-At least 19 Malians bissnessmen and 4 malians forces guards\n\n-At least 12 french crew from Air France, priviously was reported, that one of them also died, but thet was denied\n\n-7 Algerian diplomats\n\n-7 crew members from Turkish Airlines\n\n-4 Marrocans\n\n- 2 Spanish volunteers, including 85 year old woman- Pepita Codina\n\n-2 Germans - Dutch couple from Berlin\n\nTwenty people were murdered in the attack: six Malians, six Russians, three Chinese, two Belgians, one American, one Israeli and one Senegalese. Among the victims were:\n\n\nWhile the attack was under way, Al-Mourabitoun claimed responsibility for it via Twitter, although its claim has not been verified. In an audio recording provided to Al Jazeera, the group also claimed responsibility and said that it had undertaken the attack jointly with al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). Al-Mourabitoun is made up of Tuaregs and Arabs from northern Mali and is affiliated with AQIM. The group, led by Mokhtar Belmokhtar, formed in 2013 and is based in the Sahara Desert.\n\nThe Macina Liberation Front also claimed responsibility for the attack.\n\nMalian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta cut short his visit to Chad in order to return to Bamako and coordinate the response. Mali also declared a 10-day state of emergency.\n\nIn a press conference, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius stated that France will take \"all steps necessary\" to fight the attackers in Bamako. A crisis unit was set up in the embassy. Forty officers from the National Gendarmerie's GIGN special forces unit, along with ten forensic and criminal officers, were sent to \"advise and support\" Malian security forces. Air France flights to and from Bamako were suspended for the day.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council condemned the attack. Australia advised its citizens not to travel to Mali and advised those in country to leave. Similar warnings were made by the Foreign Office in the United Kingdom advised British nationals to remain indoors and follow the instructions of the local government authorities. The United States condemned the attack and confirmed continuing coordination of its officials in the country to verify the location of all citizens in Mali and that it was \"prepared to assist the Malian government in the coming days as it investigates this tragic terrorist attack.\" The embassy urged its citizens to shelter in place, follow government instructions and contact their family.\n\nThe Russian city of Ulyanovsk Oblast, home of five of the victims, declared 23 November a mourning day.\n\nMalian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita later declared three days of national mourning in Mali. Ahead of the three days of national mourning, the chairman of the West African regional bloc Ecowas, Senegal's President Macky Sall, visited Bamako to show support. He said on Sunday: \"Mali will never be alone in this fight, we are all committed because we are all involved.\" Senegal, Mauritania and Guinea are also observing the mourning.\n\nThree days after the attack, the Malian government released photographs of the corpses of the two attackers. The men were clean-shaven and appeared to be in their 20s. One \"had visible bullet wounds to his upper body.\" The authorities have not been able to identify the men and urged members of the public with information to come forward. Al Mourabitoun, which claimed responsibility for the attack, said that the men were Abdul Hakim al-Ansari and Mu'adh al-Ansari, but this claim has not been verified.\n\nOn November 22, 2015, two separate police sources speaking to Agence-France Presse on condition of anonymity said that \"two foreigners\" along with \"three or four accomplice\" were responsible for the attack.\n\nOn November 27, 2015, Malian special forces arrested two Malian men in their early 30s on the outskirts if Bamako in connection with the attack. The men were linked to the attack by a mobile phone found at the scene of the attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "2745269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2745269", "title": "48 Hour Film Project", "text": "48 Hour Film Project\n\nThe 48 Hour Film Project is an annual film competition in which teams of filmmakers are assigned a genre, a character, a prop, and a line of dialogue, and have 48 hours to create a short film containing those elements. The competition has been active since 2001. \n\nIn the weeks after the 48 hours of filmmaking are complete, screenings are held in each city and a winner is chosen to represent that city at Filmapalooza—a festival that features \"best of\" screenings of the winners from each city. Filmapalooza is hosted by a different city each year. The most recent Filmapalooza was held in Paris, France. \n\nThe competition began in Washington, D.C., in 2001. It was created by Mark Ruppert and is produced by Ruppert and Liz Langston. In 2009, nearly 40,000 filmmakers made around 3,000 films in 76 cities across the globe.\n\nAfter the 48 hours of filmmaking are complete, each city screens all the competing films, and a jury subsequently vote on the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd best films. Most cities also give out awards to their films in several categories, including directing, writing, and acting; an Audience Choice award is sometimes voted on as well, by the audience of the screenings in each city.\n\nThe film that wins 1st place goes on to represent their city at Filmapalooza—a festival that features \"best of\" screenings of the winners from each city. Filmapalooza is hosted by a different city each year. The most recent Filmapalooza was held in Paris, France.\n\nIn 2003, the creators of the 48 Hour Film Project created the National Film Challenge, which is an annual three-day film competition with roughly the same structure as the 48 Hour Film Project, except that the films are mailed in when completed and then screened on-line, rather than being shown in movie theater in the local city. \n\nIn 2008, this competition was opened to filmmakers from around the world and although the name was not officially changed, the runner-up hailed from Utrecht, Netherlands. \n\nThe organizers of the Auckland competition split off from the 48 Hour Film Project after the 2003 competition and formed 48HOURS, which is now a wholly separate organization that runs a similar competition in New Zealand.\n\nIn 2006, the producers of the National Film Challenge began the International Documentary Challenge (also known as the \"Doc Challenge\") in which participating filmmakers produce a documentary in under five days.\n\nIn 2011, 48 Go Green split off from 48 Hour Film Project to become a separate, independent organization. 48 Go Green had a similar style of competition. The primary differences were an ecological theme, and an entirely online competition to allow worldwide participation. 48 Go Green and 48 Hour Film Project parted ways following a disagreement between 48 Hour Film Project and co-producers Francesco Vitali and Christos Siametis. 48 Go Green soon became 48FILM Project.\n\nAll cities listed below have participated every year since their introduction, unless otherwise noted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe competition organizers maintain records online that indicate which cities have participated in past years.\n\nIn each participating city, one participant is chosen as the City Winner and their film is submitted to a jury for consideration against other City Winners for the competition year. The jury's selection from among these films is named the year's winner and is honored at Filmapalooza, the finale festival for the 48 Hour Film Project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52636270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52636270", "title": "Assassination of Andrei Karlov", "text": "Assassination of Andrei Karlov\n\nAndrei Karlov, the Russian Ambassador to Turkey, was assassinated by Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş, an off-duty Turkish police officer, at an art exhibition in Ankara, Turkey on the evening of 19 December 2016. The assassination took place after several days of protests in Turkey over Russian involvement in the Syrian Civil War and the battle over Aleppo.\n\nThe assassination took place after a long period of highly polarized and incited political atmosphere in Turkey, and after several days of protests by Turks against Russian involvement in the Syrian Civil War and in particular the battle over Aleppo. Russian and Turkish officials held talks on brokering a ceasefire in Syria during the evacuation of Aleppo. Russia, Turkey and Iran planned to meet to negotiate a settlement over the Syrian Civil War.\n\nKarlov, the Russian Ambassador to Turkey, had been invited to deliver a speech at the opening of an exhibition of Turkish photography of the Russian countryside. The exhibition, \"Russia through Turks' eyes\", was being held at the Cagdas Sanat Merkezi centre for modern arts in Ankara's Çankaya district.\n\nMevlüt Altıntaş entered the hall using police identification, leading gallery attendees to believe he was one of Karlov's personal bodyguards. Karlov had begun his speech when Altıntaş fired several shots at the Russian ambassador from the back, fatally wounding him and injuring several other people.\n\nAfter shooting Karlov, Altıntaş circled the room, smashing pictures that were on display and shouting in Arabic and Turkish: \"\"Allahu Akbar\" (God is the greatest). We are the descendants of those who supported the Prophet Muhammad, for jihad. Do not forget Aleppo, do not forget Syria\" and \"We die in Aleppo, you die here\". Shortly after, Altıntaş was shot and killed by Turkish security forces. Karlov was taken to the hospital, but died from his injuries.\n\nTurkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan declared that the shooting was designed to disrupt the warming Russia–Turkey relations. \"The New York Times\" suggested a possible motive was revenge for the Russian Air Force's targeting of rebel-held areas in Aleppo.\n\nAlthough seemingly an act of revenge against Russian military involvement in Aleppo as part of the ongoing Syrian Civil War, some have suspected Islamic extremism or anti-Russian sentiment to be the cause of the attack. President-elect of the United States Donald Trump accused the assassin of being \"a radical Islamic terrorist\", and the Russian State Duma said that \"The culprits in this monstrous provocation, both the executors and those who guided the terrorist's hand by instigating Russophobia, ethnic, religious and confessional hatred, extremism and fanaticism, must face their deserved punishment\".\n\nAllegations of NATO involvement have circulated among government officials and commentators, as well as involvement by the jihadist movements of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Jabhat Fatah al-Sham (formerly known as Al-Nusra Front/al-Qaeda in Syria) – two groups which Turkey has been accused of supporting in the past – have been made. Turkish authorities are reportedly investigating Aydintas' links to the Gülen movement; in a speech, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan claimed that the perpetrator was a member of \"FETÖ\". The attack was praised by ISIL and al-Qaeda affiliated accounts on social media. The words spoken by the assassin are similar to the unofficial anthem of Jabhat Fatah al-Sham.\n\nBorn in Moscow in 1954, Andrei Gennadyevich Karlov was educated at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations and the Diplomatic Academy. He began his career with the government at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the USSR in 1976. Karlov went on to hold various diplomatic positions at the Russian embassy to North Korea. He had been Russian ambassador to Turkey since July 2013.\n\nAndrei Karlov is the fourth Russian diplomat to have died in the line of duty, after Alexander Griboyedov, Vatslav Vorovsky and Pyotr Voykov, a Soviet envoy to Poland.\n\nThe assassin was identified as Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş (; 24 June 1994 – 19 December 2016), an off-duty Turkish riot police officer.\n\nAltıntaş grew up in a secular family from the town Söke of Aydın Province in the Aegean region of western Turkey.\n\nAfter being rejected from university twice, he graduated from İzmir Police School in 2014. His sister was quoted as saying that \"he started to perform prayer five times a day in police school\". He served on an elite Ankara riot police unit for two and a half years, and had been part of the security detail for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan on eight occasions since July 2016.\n\nA Turkish newspaper reported that Altıntaş had been suspended in early October 2016 for suspected involvement in the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt, but returned to duty in mid-November.\n\nAltıntaş had visited Qatar several times and what he did while in Qatar was being investigated after he killed the ambassador.\n\nAltıntaş' body was rejected by his family; his parents stated that \"We are ashamed of him because of the murder and we will not claim the body of a traitor.\" His body was buried in a cemetery for unidentified and unclaimed corpses.\n\nThe day after the killing, Turkish authorities arrested a number of Altıntaş' family members in his home province of Aydin, as well as his flatmate in Ankara, holding the family members for one day. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov also confirmed that a Russian investigative team was scheduled to arrive in Turkey on 20 December to assist with the investigation.\n\nMany governments and heads of state condemned the attack and offered condolences to the family of Karlov and other victims of the shooting, as well as to the Russian people.\n\nWhile ISIL has not claimed responsibility for the assassination, it has been celebrated by its supporters. The Islamist Jaish al-Fatah coalition, which includes the Jabhat Fatah al-Sham (formerly Al-Nusra Front), claimed responsibility for the assassination, according to the Egyptian newspaper \"Al-Youm Al-Sabea\".\n\nA Qatari journalist, Elham Badar, said the shooting was a 'human' response to 'Russian barbarism' in Aleppo and elsewhere in the conflict. \"New York Daily News\" columnist Gersh Kuntzman attracted criticism when he compared Karlov's murder to the assassination of Nazi German diplomat Ernst vom Rath by Jewish student Herschel Grynszpan, saying \"justice has been served.\" The Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs later demanded an apology from the \"New York Daily News\" following the article's publication. Ukrainian MP Volodymyr Parasiuk, famous for his Euromaidan speech, has called the Russian ambassador's assassin a \"hero\".\n\nA woman in the board of Al Jazeera said that she believes the murder of Andrey Karlov was justified because of the bloodshed the country has contributed to in the Syrian civil war.\n\nIn Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan said in a video message that \"Turkey-Russia relations are vital for the region and those who aimed to harm ties were not going to achieve their goals\", after having spoken to Russian president Vladimir Putin, adding that they \"both agreed the assassination of Russia's ambassador to Ankara by a gunman was an act of provocation by those looking to harm relations of our countries.\" The Turkish Foreign Ministry pledged to spare no effort to not let \"this attack cast a shadow on the Turkish-Russian friendship.\" Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu announced that the street in which the Russian embassy is located would be named after the ambassador.\n\nRussian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said: \"Terrorism will not pass. We will fight it decisively.\" President Vladimir Putin stated he believes \"a crime has been committed and it was without doubt a provocation aimed at spoiling the normalization of Russo-Turkish relations and spoiling the Syrian peace process which is being actively pushed by Russia, Turkey, Iran and others\". He also ordered heightening of security measures at Russian embassies worldwide, and stated that \"we need to know who guided the hand of the murderer\".\n"}
{"id": "9802606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9802606", "title": "Bradley-Martin Ball", "text": "Bradley-Martin Ball\n\nThe Bradley-Martin Ball was a lavish costume ball at the Waldorf Hotel in New York City on the night of February 10, 1897. Cornelia Bradley-Martin, wife of Bradley Martin, organized the ball, with the intention of making it \"the greatest party in the history of the city\". Eight hundred socialites spent about $400,000 imitating kings and queens. Bradley-Martin's stated intention was to create an economic stimulus for New York City, which was at the end of the Long Depression which began in 1873 and included the Panic of 1893. The Bradley-Martins spent approximately $9.7 million in today's money to throw the ball. Across the country, preachers and editorial writers argued over the propriety of a party that would cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. In the end, the ball was a social triumph but created negative publicity.\n\nIn the three weeks leading up to it, New York society made the ball its one topic of discussion. The \"Commercial Advertiser\" exclaimed: \"There is a great stir today in fashionable circles and even in public circles. The cause of it all is the Bradley Martin ball, beside which the arbitration treaty, the Cuban question, and the Lexow investigation seem to have become secondary matters of public interest.\"\n\nThe guests included: Caroline Webster Schermerhorn Astor, known simply as Mrs. Astor, costumed as Mary, Queen of Scots, her son John Jacob Astor as Henry IV of France and his wife as Marie Antoinette, James L. Breese as the Duke of Guise, John Pierpont Morgan, Charles Childs as Lady Teazle, Hermann Oelrichs as a Dutch Bergomaster, Charles Post as Madame de Maintenon, Stanford White in a Court costume of black velvet and white satin, the artist Adolfo Müller-Ury as a Spanish toreador, Pierpont Morgan as Louise of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, and Hamilton Fish Webster as Maria Theresa of Austria.\n\nCornelia Bradley-Martin’s idea was to give a costume ball at so short notice that her guests would not have time to get their dresses from Paris, and instead support local businesses. This overlapped with the idea that it was much better for the laboring people if the wealthy spent their money locally instead of taking it to Europe.\n\nThe Reverend Dr. Rainsford believed in the rich giving money to be distributed as charity, whereas others, including the members of the Musical Mutual Protective Union (MMPU), disagreed. They believed in the wealthy spending their wealth in enjoying themselves, and thus giving hundreds and thousands of working people an opportunity to earn money and maintain their self-respect instead of having to accept charity. The MMPU became indignant when they heard that the Marine Band was to be at the ball instead of musicians from their union. The members of the Marine Band did not urgently need the money that they were going to receive from the ball.\n\nFlorist Small was in charge of the decorations for the Bradley-Martin ball. Decorating the Waldorf began on the morning of February 9 by A.W. Merritt, Small’s colleague. In the days leading up to the event, dealers’ stocks and household stores were ransacked to supply the demand for ornaments and historical accuracy. All the jewelers who dealt in antiques were cleaned out of all they had on hand. Jewels held as heirlooms by the old families of New York were taken from safety vaults. Laces that had been locked away in family chests or in safe deposit vaults for long years had been retrieved.\n\nTwelve hundred invitations were issued for the event, and more than half of those invited were in attendance. Some who did come also left early, seeming to have made an appearance out of curiosity.\n\n\"The interior of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel was transformed into a replica of Versailles, and rare tapestries, beautiful flowers and countless lights made an effective background for the wonderful gowns and their wearers.\"\n\nPolice officers stood guard at the entrance to the Waldorf. The Bradley-Martins arrived first at 10:15 pm. At half past 10 a group of carriages arrived and before 11 the stream of guests had become continuous. The guests were ushered into the Waldorf, whereupon they ascended to the corridors on the second floor where 15 dressing rooms were available for the use and comfort of the guests. Some guests, preferring not to expose themselves on the street while wearing tempting fortunes in jewels and laces, changed into their costumes at this point. This wasn’t done through any feeling of fear, but merely as a wise precaution. Wigmakers and make-up artists were available in these rooms. When leaving the dressing rooms the guests headed to the smaller ballroom. It was here where Cornelia Bradley-Martin received her guests. A lackey announced the guests’ names and the characters they impersonated to her. This stream of guests poured by her for nearly 90 minutes and it was after midnight before she was able to enter the main ballroom to take her place in the opening \"quadrille d’honneur\".\n\nCornelia Bradley-Martin requested her guests to pick something from the 16th, 17th, or 18th centuries, and some came dressed as George Washington, a Japanese nobleman, an Egyptian princess and Pocahontas. A list was compiled and published in the \"New York Times\" three days prior to the event, listing guests and the historical characters they were going to impersonate and what costumes they were going to wear. Bradley-Martin \"personated Mary Stuart, and her gold embroidered gown was trimmed with pearls and precious stones worth more than $60,000. Bradley (Martin), as Louis XV, wore a Court suit of brocade\". \"In many cases the diamond buttons worn by the men represented thousands of dollars, and the value of the historic gems worn by the ladies baffles description.\" At the time, the average income of an American was $400 a year.\n\nOtho Cushing, a young artist from Boston, created quite a stir when he appeared as an Italian falconer's costume which consisted of full body tights, a short jacket and a cap with a stuffed falcon on one arm. \"The costume left little to the imagination as far as the figure was concerned, and, although historically correct in every detail, was so decidedly pronounced that he made a sensation wherever he moved.\"\n\nThe smaller ballroom was set throughout with furniture of the Louis XV period, and the walls were hung with tapestry draperies. Roses were hurled en masse against the draperies and let remain where they landed. The side of the room, where the Hungarian band was placed, was concealed by long-stemmed roses and garlands were dropped from the center to each side and over the mirrors. The Hungarian Band, under the leadership of Carl Berlinger, played 12 concert selections, chosen by Mrs. Bradley-Martin, throughout the evening.\n\nUpon entering the grand ballroom the guests faced a wall in which 15 mirrors were imbedded. The far side of the room, the musicians’ balcony, was concealed by pink roses, with garlands also hanging from above. There were over 5,000 roses and 3,000 orchids in these various groupings.\n\nThe café and the court were also decorated, with a desired homelike effect. 125 tables were set up, each to accommodate six guests, with a centerpiece of Beauty roses.\n\nThe \"danse d’honneur\", arranged by Caroline Astor, opened the ball. The company was led by Cornelia Bradley-Martin, in the role of the Queen, escorted by John Jacob Astor as the King. For this danse d’honneur, the orchestra played music composed by Beethoven. Following this, the orchestra started playing one of Chopin’s polonaises announcing the approach of the wife of Edmund L. Baylies and her associates for the minuet. When they formed for the minuet the orchestra struck into Mozart’s dance music out of \"Don Giovanni\". The dance of the debutantes was next, and it was livelier than the others and the most difficult of all. The members of this set, organized by the wife of Frederic Bronson, danced a Hungarian Court quadrille, the Kormagyar, in music arranged by Allen Dodworth. This quadrille ended the exhibition dances. General dancing followed the three quadrilles until supper time.\n\n\"Between the grand ballroom and the cafe, used on this occasion for the supper room, is a barricade of windows, which were thrown open about 1 o'clock in the morning, and the guests were then at liberty to enjoy the delights of the cuisine. The menu was as follows:\n\nThe cotillion commenced at three, and spectators found amusement as the gentlemen danced it with swords at their sides. Swords got tangled in gowns and laces, and courtiers tripped over them, to the delight of the spectators. Elisha Dyer, Jr. led the cotillion.\n\nCornelia Bradley-Martin selected small silver figures and a staff as “favors” for each of the guests of the ball. The “favors” were awarded by Elisha Dyer, Jr. as leader of the cotillion.\n\nBefore the Ball took place, the Bradley-Martins drew fire from all directions, as newspapers criticized its extravagance and clergymen urged their congregations not to attend. One clergyman denounced the ball by saying: \"You rich people put next to nothing in the collection plate, and yet you’ll spend thousands of dollars on Mrs. Bradley-Martin’s ball”.\n\nAfter the ball many ministers preached against its excessive consumption and the authorities promptly raised Bradley-Martin’s taxes (as well as those of their friends and fellow-attendees the Astors) quite out of proportion to those paid by anyone else. The Bradley-Martins returned to England, where they had owned a home for several years, and Scotland, where they leased a estate, Balmacaan.\n\nAlthough historians have repeated oft-told half-truths without conducting primary research, the Bradley-Martin ball is perhaps best-remembered as the end of the excesses of the Gilded Age.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31691133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31691133", "title": "Burning of Colón", "text": "Burning of Colón\n\nThe Burning of Colón, or the Panama Incident, was a major event of the Colombian Civil War in 1885. Panamanian rebels loyal to Pedro Prestan destroyed the city by committing arson before retreating after a battle with federal Colombian troops. The episode also included a landing by United States Navy sailors and marines from two warships after the rebels seized American citizens.\n\nIn the late 1800s Colombia's political situation was in turmoil as revolution and riots plagued the country. In 1885 another revolution began which spilled into the Isthmus of Panama. On or about March 16 the rebel leader Pedro Prestan occupied the small port of Colón on the Gulf Coast where he was waiting for a shipment of weapons by the American merchant ship \"Colon\" of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company. On March 26, Captain John M. Dow, representing the Pacific Mail Steamship Company in Colon, received a letter from the Panamanian sub-Secretary of State informing him that the offloading of any weapons intended for rebels was strictly prohibited. On the following day, Captain Dow received another letter from Secretary General Gomina which advised that he had assumed the position of commander-in-chief of civil and military affairs and should any of the weapons be removed from the \"Colon\" then the agent responsible for their delivery might attempt to seek asylum from the American or French naval forces present. Dow then informed the United States consul Mr. Wright who relayed orders from the consul-general Mr. Adamson not to allow any weapons to be offloaded without the permission of the consulate or Captain Theodore Kane of the steamer USS \"Galena\", which happened to be in port at the time. So on March 29, when the \"Colon\" arrived at Colon with fifty-two packages marked \"M\", Captain Dow assumed command and ordered that nothing be taken off the ship. This angered Pedro Prestan when he came to pick up his delivery and Dow and three others were then taken under arrest by militiamen, one of the captives was a United States Navy lieutenant named Judd.\n\nWhen Captain Kane learned of the arrests, negotiations began between the two parties. Prestan wanted his guns and the Kane wanted the American citizens to be released but the captain could not use force as it meant risking the lives of the prisoners. Rebel forces included at least 100 men, around twenty of whom accompanied Prestan at all times and fortified a small position within the city streets. The remaining men were based outside of town at Monkey Hill. The rebels had an old cannon as well and threatened to open fire on the \"Galena\" if she came in towards the shore. Prestan also declared that if he was forced to retreat, he would destroy the city with dynamite. For several hours, until the next day, the negotiations proceeded and the Americans refused to give Prestan the cargo of weapons. Meanwhile, Captain Dow and the other prisoners were taken to the Panamanian base to be executed by a firing squad. Soon after Mr. Right ordered that the weapons be given up as it was the only means of releasing the hostages. Unknowingly, Captain Kane was distracting the rebels while the Colombian Army approached Colon. Eventually Prestan became alarmed and supposedly ordered his men to begin burning the city but it was later determined that he never gave such order; each party blamed the other for starting the fire, for which Prestán was hanged and later absolved by \"resolución No. 101-30-48 de 24 de Septiembre\"). Shortly thereafter the Colombians launched their attack. For a few hours the Panamanians held their position while the city burned around them until they were finally routed during the last Colombian charge. A detachment of about 100 marines and sailors from the \"Galena\" then landed at the request of the Colombian government and 600 more men and two cannons from the USS \"Tennessee\" arrived within the next few days. Admiral James Edward Jouett assumed command of American forces which was tasked with protecting American property. This was hard because the fire quickly spread throughout Colon, causing great damage. Several of the destroyed buildings were American or European owned and damages amounted to the millions though compensation was never paid.\n\nColon burned for days and the American garrison withdrew without doing much to save the city. United States citizens were also evacuated along with other foreign nationals. The American government responded to the incident by sending men to occupy both Colon, for a second time, and the city of Panama. There were no American casualties but between the Panamanians and the Colombians, eighteen people were killed and many more were wounded in action or hurt by the fire.\n\n"}
{"id": "28837489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28837489", "title": "Castle Mill", "text": "Castle Mill\n\nCastle Mill is a graduate housing complex of the University of Oxford in Oxford, England.\n\nCastle Mill is located north of Oxford railway station along Roger Dudman Way, just to the west of the railway tracks on what was formerly Cripley Meadow, south of Port Meadow. The initial buildings at the southern end of the site were completed in 2004. Accommodation is available for single people, couples, and families. Graduate students with children benefit from priority access to lower-cost accommodation, alleviating the over-stretched housing market in Central Oxford.\n\nFacilities at Castle Mill include a common room, launderettes, bicycle racks and an outside barbecue area. The complex is supported by caretakers who live on site. The proximity of the railway causes a noise issue.\n\nThe Castle Mill Stream, a branch of the River Thames, runs to the east of the site beyond the railway tracks, hence the name. From Castle Mill there are views of the railway lines to the East, and allotments and Port Meadow to the West.\n\nIn 2010, Oxford City Council capped the number of students that Oxford University and Oxford Brookes University were permitted to have in private rented housing to 3,000 each. The Council was encouraged by local lobbies such as the East Oxford Residents Forum to use planning permission as an enforcement mechanism. If either University breached the cap, the Council threatened to prevent new buildings from being occupied. As a consequence of these restrictions, the Universities looked to develop sites for student accommodation in partnership with commercial providers.\n\nSince 2012, the Oxford University Estates Directorate, with the help of Longcross, have been developing the one hectare Castle Mill brown field site (400m × 25m), north of the existing accommodation, between the Cripley Meadow Allotments and the railway tracks, close to the southern end of Port Meadow, to meet the need for graduate places.\n\nThe development has been controversial, since the four to five storey blocks overlook Port Meadow, an historic open area to the north with views of some of Oxford's skyline. Campaigners warned of damage to views of Oxford. There was an online petition and a \"Save Port Meadow\" campaign was established in December 2012. Concern was raised by the Oxford Preservation Trust, Layla Moran MP, the Liberal Democrats, and Green Party. Some members of Oxford University expressed anger. The development has been likened by a critic to building a \"skyscraper beside Stonehenge\".\n\nIn February 2013, a local newspaper reported that Oxford City Council had entered negotiations with Oxford University to reduce the height of the buildings by two storeys. There was a protest and picket of Congregation, the University's formal assembly of senior members, at the Sheldonian Theatre in central Oxford. The protesters including members of the University, such as Diarmaid MacCulloch, Professor of the History of the Church and TV historian. Oxford University donors, such as Michael Moritz, and the University's Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Andrew Hamilton, were also targeted with letters by the protesters, warning that the buildings \"blot out the unique view of Oxford's Dreaming Spires from Port Meadow\". Campaigners claimed that the decision on the development was unlawful. The author Philip Pullman condemned the buildings; this was featured in the national press.\n\nIn particular, views of the Grade I listed Italianate St Barnabas Church in Jericho have been affected. An internal report of 24 January 2012 at Oxford City Council stated \"Photomontages show that from some parts of the meadow the view of the St Barnabas campanile will be obscured with the long unrelieved roof line cutting across in front of it.\" (See photograph to the right.)\n\nIn March 2013, it was revealed that Oxford City Council was warned about the threat to the views from Port Meadow. The Head of Heritage at the Council reported on \"the harmful impact\", concluding that \"There is no justification for this harm\". The University submitted revised plans reducing the height of the blocks by 1.2m on 9 February 2012, yet the planning officer's report recommending approval of the revised scheme was dated 3 February 2012. The height change is seen by some as having a negligible effect in practice. The Vice-Chairman of the West Area Planning Committee said \"I was told there had been no objections to the original scheme and as the revised scheme was designed to make it even less controversial there was no need to consult.\"\n\nIn April 2013, it was reported that Oxford University had removed the topmost apex of the roof in its revised plans, rather than removing a storey. The University stated that it would not reduce the height of the buildings voluntarily and had estimated the cost of doing so as £10–20 million. On 17 April, masked protesters attended an Oxford City Council meeting, where it was decided that a high-level meeting between the University's Vice-Chancellor and the Council leader was needed.\nThe City Council warned the University that compulsory measures could be taken to reduce the impact of Castle Mill. Campaigners set up a fund to oppose the development in the High Court. The Director of the Oxford Preservation Trust has said, \"I don't think we have the guidelines in place which allow for a development like the one near Port Meadow to be properly assessed.\"\n\nDuring May 2013, it emerged that pollution at Castle Mill had not been checked before work began, as was required in the planning permission. The CPRE stated that a request under the Freedom of Information Act revealed that the University did not provide the necessary information before work started in September 2012. When the University did eventually undertake the assessment, it was deemed adequate by the City Council officers, but a judgement of the matter by the Council itself was postponed. Later in May, a University alumnus said that he had been lobbied by the Provost of Worcester College, Professor Jonathan Bate, because the College was objecting to a modest planning proposal by Exeter College.\n\nIn June 2013, Castle Mill was one of six buildings nominated for the 2013 Carbuncle Cup, an annual award by \"Building Design\" for \"the ugliest building in the United Kingdom completed in the last 12 months. It is described as \"a deeply unimaginative and impoverished design which would lower the spirits whatever its setting, but on the edge of one of central England's most important and ancient landscapes, it is an outrage.\"\n\nIn July 2013, an independent inquiry into the student blocks and how the University was allowed to obscure historic views of Oxford was announced. The level of consultation and the relationship between Oxford city planners and Oxford University have been questioned. There have been claims that city councillors were misled about the impact of the scheme.\n\nTwo years on, the controversy continued, with several Oxford academics still in public opposition. October 2014 was the second anniversary of the issue, still raising anger from local campaigners, with a retrospective environmental impact assessment in progress.\n\nIn February 2015, almost exactly three years after Oxford City Council approved the scheme, academics and staff who are members of the university's Congregation – effectively its parliament – debated a binding motion to reduce the height of six of Castle Mill's eight blocks to reduce the development's visual impact. The proposal was defeated by 536 votes to 210. The University's Student Union campaigned against the motion on the grounds that it would have an adverse impact on graduate student housing and finance. A subsequent postal vote, triggered by critics of Castle Mill, rejected the proposal to reduce the height of six blocks by 1,698 to 460. In response to the two votes, Oxford University said it would now pursue its favoured option, screening the student flats with trees and new cladding at an approximate cost of £6m.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16344220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16344220", "title": "Catherine de' Medici's court festivals", "text": "Catherine de' Medici's court festivals\n\nCatherine de' Medici's court festivals were a series of lavish and spectacular entertainments, sometimes called magnificences, laid on by Catherine de' Medici, the queen consort of France from 1547 to 1559 and queen mother from 1559 until her death in 1589. As queen consort of Henry II of France, Catherine showed interest in the arts and theatre, but it was not until she attained real political and financial power as queen mother that she began the series of tournaments and entertainments that dazzled her contemporaries and continue to fascinate scholars. Biographer Leonie Frieda suggests that \"Catherine, more than anyone, inaugurated the fantastic entertainments for which later French monarchs also became renowned\".\n\nFor Catherine, these entertainments served a political purpose that made them worth their colossal expense. She presided over the royal government at a time when the French monarchy was in steep decline. With three of her sons on the throne in succession and the country torn by religious civil war, Catherine set out to show not only the French people but foreign courts that the Valois monarchy was as prestigious and magnificent as it had been during the reigns of Francis I and her husband Henry II. At the same time, she believed these elaborate entertainments and sumptuous court rituals, which incorporated martial sports and tournaments of many kinds, would occupy her feuding nobles and distract them from fighting against each other to the detriment of the country and the royal authority.\n\nIt is clear, however, that Catherine regarded these festivals as more than political and pragmatic exercises: she revelled in them as a vehicle for her creative gifts. A highly talented and artistic woman, Catherine took the lead in devising and planning her own musical-mythological shows. Though they were ephemeral, her \"magnificences\"—as the contemporary commentator Pierre de Bourdeille, seigneur de Brantôme, called them—are studied by modern scholars as works of art. Historian Frances Yates has called Catherine \"a great creative artist in festivals\". She employed the leading artists and architects of the day to create the necessary dramas, music, and scenic effects for these events, which were usually dedicated to the ideal of peace and based on mythological themes.\n\nIt is difficult for scholars to piece together the exact form of the entertainments, but clues have been gleaned from the written accounts, scripts, artworks, and tapestries that derived from these famous occasions. Though such sources must be treated with caution, since they contain demonstrable inaccuracies and contradictions, they provide evidence of the richness and scale of Catherine de' Medici's court festivals.\n\nCatherine de' Medici's investment in magnificent entertainments was part of a conscious political programme. She recalled the belief of her father-in-law, King Francis I, that the court needed to be physically active and constantly entertained. She also declared her intention to imitate the Roman emperors, who kept their subjects from mischief by occupying them with games and amusements. She therefore adopted a policy of distracting her nobles from fighting among themselves by laying on irresistible entertainments and sports for them at court.\nCatherine also maintained about eighty alluring ladies-in-waiting at court, whom she allegedly used as tools to seduce courtiers for political ends. These women became known as her \"flying squadron\". Catherine did not hesitate to use the charms of her ladies as an attraction of the court. In 1577, for example, she threw a banquet at which the food was served by topless women. In 1572, the Huguenot Jeanne d’Albret, Queen of Navarre, wrote from the court to warn her son Henry that Catherine presided over a \"vicious and corrupt\" atmosphere, in which the women made the sexual advances and not the men. In fact, Charlotte de Sauve, one of the most notorious members of the \"flying squadron\", first seduced and then became a mistress of Henry of Navarre on Catherine's orders. On the other hand, Brantôme, in his \"Memoirs\", praised Catherine’s court as \"a school of all honesty and virtue\".\n\nIn the tradition of sixteenth-century royal festivals, Catherine de' Medici's magnificences took place over several days, with a different entertainment each day. Often individual nobles or members of the royal family were responsible for preparing one particular entertainment. Spectators and participants, including those involved in martial sports, would dress up in costumes representing mythological or romantic themes. Catherine gradually introduced changes to the traditional form of these entertainments. She forbade heavy tilting of the sort that led to the death of her husband in 1559; and she developed and increased the prominence of dance in the shows that climaxed each series of entertainments. As a result, the \"ballets de cour\", a distinctive new art form, emerged from the creative advances in court entertainment devised by Catherine de' Medici.\n\nIn January 1564, Catherine and the young Charles IX embarked on a royal progress that was to last nearly two and a half years. They were accompanied by what has been described as a city on the move, including the King’s Council and foreign ambassadors who Catherine hoped would report to their governments on the splendour of the train, offsetting any idea that the French monarchy was on the verge of bankruptcy. The royal household included Catherine’s courtiers and \"flying squadron\", as well as her musicians and nine essential dwarves who travelled in their own miniature coaches. The party carried with it all the equipment and paraphernalia required for the festivals, feasts, masques, and \"joyeuses entrées\" planned to take place along the route. These included portable triumphal arches and the royal barges.\n\nCatherine had ordered that at the Château de Fontainebleau, each important noble should host a ball. She herself held a banquet in a meadow at the château's dairy, where her courtiers dressed as shepherds and shepherdesses. That evening, the court watched a comedy in the great ballroom, which was followed by a ball where 300 \"beauties dressed in gold and silver cloth\" performed a choreographed dance.\n\nAt Fontainebleau, Catherine arranged entertainments that lasted for several days, including fancy-dress jousting and chivalrous events in allegorical settings. On Mardi Gras, the day after the banquet in the meadow, knights dressed as Greeks and Trojans fought over scantily clad damsels trapped by a giant and a dwarf in a tower on an enchanted island. The fighting climaxed with the tower losing its magical properties and bursting into flames. In another spectacle, singing sirens swam past the king, and Neptune floated by in a chariot drawn by seahorses.\n\nAs the high point of the royal progress, Catherine scheduled a meeting with her daughter Elisabeth, the third wife of Philip II of Spain. Catherine was so determined to make a magnificent impression on the Spanish court that she indulged in a spending spree that was extravagant even by her own standards. To help pay for the planned pageantry and entertainments, she borrowed 700,000 écus from the Gondi bank. Catherine had assumed she would also be meeting King Philip himself, but early in the tour, he sent word that he would not be attending. He was outraged that Catherine, whom he called \"Madame La Serpente\", had received an embassy from the Sultan of Turkey. He also objected to her Edict of Amboise (1563), which had offered concessions to the Huguenots. In short, French religious policy disgusted him. In his place he sent \"the severe and ferocious\" Duke of Alba, with orders to convince Catherine that persecuting, imprisoning, and torturing Huguenots was the way to deal with heretics, not making treaties with them. In the event, Catherine left Alba befuddled by her darting mind. He found her far more interested in discussing marriage alliances and in showing him what the French court could lay on in the way of fabulous entertainments.\nElisabeth and her Spanish entourage had arrived at the Bidasoa river on the Spanish border with a huge escort of French Catholic nobles on 14 June 1565. She then rode into Saint-Jean de Luz, where Catherine greeted her tearfully with embraces and kisses. During the reception ceremonies, ten of Catherine’s soldiers dropped dead from standing too long in the heat in their armour. The next day, Elisabeth made a dazzling entry into Bayonne on a horse whose harness was studded with gems worth 400,000 ducats.\n\nThe encounter between the two courts was marked by ritual exchanges of costly gifts and a sustained display of ballets, jousts, mock battles, and decorative arts. Several accounts of the Bayonne entertainments survive. One spectacle, mounted on the Bidasoa river, is a particularly famous example of Catherine’s entertainments as ephemeral works of art. The entertainments began with a banquet on the Île d’Aguineau. As guests were ferried on decorated boats to the island, they passed, among other spectacles, Arion riding two dolphins, harpoonists spearing an artificial whale that spouted red wine, and six tritons sitting on a giant turtle, blowing conch shells. Charles IX was transported on a barge dressed to look like a floating fortress. The banquet was followed by a ballet of nymphs and satyrs. Brantôme reported that the \"magnificence was such in everything that the Spaniards who are very contemptuous of all others save their own swore that they had never seen anything finer\".\n\nThe next day, King Charles and his brother Henry took part in a tournament, leading teams dressed as British and Irish knights. The theme of the tournament, \"virtue and love\", was represented by two chariots, one containing ladies dressed as the five virtues, the other carrying Venus and Cupid and many mini-cupids. In the tournament itself, little balls of fire were lobbed among the horses as they crossed. The royal grandstand was hung with gold-and-silk tapestries illustrating the triumph of Scipio, which Giulio Romano had designed for Francis I. Brantôme recalled in his memoirs that \"the Spanish lords and ladies greatly admired it, never having seen anything like it in the possession of their king\". Another French spectator recorded, \"Strangers of all nations were now forced to recognise that in these things France had surpassed, with these parades, bravado, glories and magnificences, all other nations and even herself\".\n\nCatherine believed she had showed Spain that the French monarchy, far from being financially ruined and at war with its nobles, remained a glorious force to be reckoned with, capable of financing displays on a stunning scale, backed by a unified court. The point was lost on the grim Duke of Alba, however. His letters reveal his frustration that Catherine’s spectacles kept interrupting the serious business of discussing how to make war on the Protestants. In the end, the Spanish decided the whole meeting been a waste of time, since Catherine had refused to change her policy towards the Huguenots in the slightest. The Huguenots, however, believed that their banishment from the talks between the two negotiating teams meant that Catherine had struck a secret deal with the Spanish to persecute them.\n\nThe celebrations following the marriage of Catherine’s daughter Marguerite to the Protestant Henry of Navarre in Paris on 18 August 1572, were based on Huguenot themes. The match was controversial because Marguerite was marrying a Huguenot. The pope refused to grant a dispensation for the marriage, and the different faiths of the bridal couple made for an unusual wedding service. After a nuptial lunch, four days of balls, masques and banquets ensued.\n\nDespite the tension between Catholic and Huguenot forces in the city, the festivities proceeded in a good-natured fashion, though the themes of the entertainments may seem \"very near to the bone\", in retrospect. The night after the wedding, a magnificent masked ball was held at the Petit-Bourbon, which included the performance of a \"pantomime tournoi\", called the \"paradise of love\". King Charles and his two brothers defended twelve angelic nymphs against the Huguenots. They despatched the Huguenots, led by Henry of Navarre, into a hell where, according to an observer, \"a great number of devils and imps were making infinite follery and noise\". The nymphs then danced a ballet. There followed combat between knights, accompanied by explosions of gunpowder. The king and his brothers climaxed proceedings by rescuing the Huguenots from hell, which was separated from paradise by a river on which floated the ferryman Charon in his boat.\n\nThe remaining festivities were called off after an assassination attempt on the Huguenot leader Admiral Coligny, who was shot from a house by an arquebusier on 22 August and wounded in the elbow and hand. The day before, the king and his brothers had dressed as Amazons to fight Navarre and his friends, who wore turbans and golden robes in the role of Turks. Fighting broke out for real between the Catholics and Huguenots in the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre, which began on 24 August when Charles IX ordered the slaughter of all the Huguenot leaders in Paris, provoking massacres of Huguenots throughout France. Henry of Navarre was given the choice of death, life imprisonment, or conversion to Catholicism. He chose Catholicism and was spared.\n\nA year after the massacre, in August 1573, Catherine hosted another lavish set of entertainments, this time for the Polish ambassadors who had arrived to offer the throne of Poland to her son, Henry, Duke of Anjou. Sports were laid on, including tournaments, mock combats, tilting at the quintain, and running at the ring. Catherine held a grand ball or \"festin\" at the Tuileries palace, which Jean Dorat described in his illustrated \"Magnificentissimi spectaculi\". Sixteen nymphs, representing each of the French provinces, danced an intricate ballet, distributing devices to the spectators in the process. Brantôme called this performance \"the finest ballet that was ever given in this world\" and praised Catherine for bringing France so much prestige with \"all these inventions\". The chronicler Agrippa d'Aubigné recorded that the Poles marvelled at the ballet. Frances Yates has pointed out that the Italian influence on the French \"ballet de cour\" owed much to Catherine:\nIt was invented in the context of the chivalrous pastimes of the court, by an Italian, and a Medici, the Queen Mother. Many poets, artists, musicians, choreographers, contributed to the result, but it was she who was the inventor, one might perhaps say, the producer; she who had the ladies of her court trained to perform these ballets in settings of her devising.\n\nA spectacular \"fête\" was held during the reign of Catherine’s son Henry III to celebrate the marriage of his sister-in-law, Marguerite of Lorraine, to his favourite, Anne, Duke of Joyeuse, on 24 September 1581. Entertainments were laid on almost every day for two weeks after the wedding, in what art historian Roy Strong has called \"the climax of Valois festival art\". The chief artist employed to design the magnificences was Antoine Caron, who was aided by the sculptor Germain Pilon. Among the writers were Dorat, Ronsard, and Philippe Desportes; and the music was written by Claude Le Jeune and the Sieur de Beaulieu, among others. A programme for an entertainment with a sun–moon theme announced that \"twelve torch bearers will be men and women disguised as trees ... the golden fruits of which will carry lamps and torches\". The visual decorations included two arcades, one shining as a sun, to represent the king, the other as a moon, to represent the newlyweds. The arcades were linked to an amphitheatre overhung with artificial heavens of planets and constellations, and allusions to Catherine’s personal emblem, the rainbow. Into this amphitheatre, the king was to enter in a chariot, dressed as the sun.\n\nAnother of the Joyeuse magnificences was the \"Ballet Comique de la Reine\", devised and presented by Queen Louise, who directed her own team of writers and musicians. The text was by Nicolas de La Chesnaye, the music by the Sieur de Beaulieu, the sets by Jacques Patin, and the overall director was Balthasar de Beaujoyeulx.\n\nThe theme of the entertainment was an invocation of cosmic forces to come to the aid of the monarchy, which at that time was threatened by the rebellion not only of Huguenots but of many Catholic nobles. Men were shown as reduced to beasts by Circe, who held court in a garden at one end of the hall. Louise and her ladies danced ballets, and the Four Cardinal Virtues appealed to the gods to descend to earth and defeat the powers of Circe. With a thunderclap, Jupiter descended sitting on an eagle, accompanied by \"the most learned and excellent music that had ever been sung or heard\". Jupiter transferred Circe’s power to the royal family, protected France from the horrors of civil war, and blessed King Henry with the wisdom to govern. At the end of the show, Catherine de' Medici made Queen Louise give Henry a gold medal depicting a dolphin. The gesture expressed Catherine's desire that the couple would have a male heir (a \"dauphin\") to continue the dynasty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46630380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46630380", "title": "CoffeeFest", "text": "CoffeeFest\n\nCoffeeFest (Literary Serbian: \"Кофифест, Kofifest\") is a regional, annual coffee festival that is held every last weekend in September on the Ušće street in Belgrade, Serbia across the Ušće Shopping Center. The Belgrade coffee, tea and hot beverage festival is supported by the Serbian Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, City of Belgrade Belgrade Tourism Organization, Serbian Tourism Organization, and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The festival organizer is a PCO company Oivivio LLC headquartered in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nExhibit area consists of over 2,000 m is set up on the closed-for-traffic street passing by the shopping mall.Among the exhibitors there was importers, distributors and roasters of domestic, traditional coffee, espresso, single origin coffees, espresso machines, capsules, pods, instant coffees, water, teas, milk for coffee, RTD coffee and more. The first CoffeeFest held on September 26–27, 2014 hosted 37 brands on 29 exhibition booths and had participants from Greece, Hungary, Italy, Lebanon, the Netherlands, Poland, Serbia, Switzerland and United States and attracted 18,210 visitors from Serbia and neighboring countries.\n\nExhibitors at first CoffeeFest were manufacturers, distributors and companies whose business include:\n\nCoffeeFest organizers provided training\nfor almost 50 baristas. Advanced training attended 38 baristas. Trainers donated their time, energy and knowledge so the training was free of charge for all baristas. Barista Training was conducted by Mr.\nIvan Abramo and Molinari Coffee from Italy and Java Coffee Company from Poland.\n\nBesides sampling all the different coffee and tea tastes, visitors enjoyed entertainment program, musical performances and competitions. The best baristas showcased their craft and educated visitors how to make a perfect espresso and latte art, and taught them how to choose a coffee machine. The attendees found out how coffee grows, how people drink it around the world, how it\naffects the health, and everything else they ever wanted to know about this beverage. For the youngest there were a lot of fun in the children’s corner plus the program on recycling awareness.\n\nMedia coverage of CoffeeFest 2014 contains more than 150 media items in the print, radio, TV and electronic media. Media showed a lot of interest for the first regional coffee Festival and reported on the event in all its phases.\n\n"}
{"id": "25903031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25903031", "title": "Corn roaster", "text": "Corn roaster\n\nA corn roaster is a large grill for cooking large batches of ears of corn at the same time. The term \"corn roaster\" can also refer to a person who roasts corn. Corn roaster machines have existed in the United States since at least 1900. Corn roasters are used by concession vendors at festivals, fairs, events, parties and holidays, such as the Fourth of July in the United States. Roasted corn is a very popular festival food in the American South, Southwest and Northwest. Corn roasters can also cook foods such as turkey legs potatoes and sweet potatoes. They may also be used by street food vendors. Street vendors may operate seasonally, per the seasonality of corn crops. Some organizations that operate corn roasters at events, such as fairs, donate their proceeds to charities.\n\nMany commercial corn roasters come mounted on a trailer. The corn roasters use LPG for fuel. Smaller versions exist, such as rotary corn roasters that can be placed on a table, and some corn roasters are homemade.\n\nThere are several different manufactures who make corn roasters in the United States. A company that produces corn roasters is Holstein Manufacturing. A brand of corn roaster is named \"Roast-O-Matic\". Some corn roasters can roast up to 1,200 ears of corn per hour.\n\nAt the annual Minnesota State Fair in Falcon Heights, Minnesota, a group of up to 50 to 55 personnel produces significant quantities of roasted corn, which can vary daily. This variance can range between 10,000 and 18,000 ears of roasted corn a day. Approximately 180,000 ears of roasted corn are produced for the duration of the fair. Roasted corn at the Minnesota State Fair has been described as \"one of the fair’s most popular foods for more than 28 years\". At the Yakima Valley Fair in Yakima, Washington, the Grandview Rotary Club has been operating a corn roaster for 40 years, and donates the proceeds to various local needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "5721592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5721592", "title": "Dajyur", "text": "Dajyur\n\nDajyur or the Damxung Horse Festival is a Tibetan festival that takes place at the beginning of the eighth month of the lunar calendar (solar September) throughout southern Tibet. The festivities last for ten days with events such as horse racing, bicycle riding contests, and rock-carrying competitions contributing to a time of merriment and celebration.\n"}
{"id": "12788914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12788914", "title": "Dub Mission", "text": "Dub Mission\n\nDub Mission is a dub, dubstep, roots, and dancehall party which occurs weekly on Sunday nights at San Francisco's Elbo Room club in the Mission district. Started by DJ Sep in 1996 as a monthly venue to fill a void in the Bay Area's dub scene, Dub Mission has grown into a weekly event with a loyal fan base, and regularly features prominent dub and reggae musicians as guests. Resident DJs of Dub Mission include J Boogie, Ludichris, Vinnie Esparza, and Maneesh the Twister. Prominent stars who have performed at Dub Mission events include the Mad Professor, Adrian Sherwood, DJ Collage, Mungo's Hi Fi, Scientist, Tippa Irie, Twilight Circus Dub Sound System, and Tino Corp.\n\nDub Mission has won awards including a 1999 Goldie Award and a 2004 award for Best Dub Club.\n"}
{"id": "14332550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14332550", "title": "EMD G16", "text": "EMD G16\n\nThe EMD G16 is a diesel locomotive built by General Motors in the USA and under licence by Clyde Engineering in Australia and MACOSA in Spain. It has been used in Australia, Brazil, Egyptian Railways, Hong Kong, Israel Railways, Mexico, Spain, Yugoslav Railways and on the successor Croatian Railways, Slovenian Railways, Serbian Railways, Macedonian Railways, Railways of Republika Srpska, Kosovo Railways and Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina Federation.\n\nThe Victorian Railways bought six G16C locomotives locally built by Clyde Engineering, known as the X class. They are now operated by Pacific National.\n\nIn Brazil 41 locomotives were imported. The first eleven were introduced in 1962 and numbered 601–612, and the remaining thirty locomotives were imported in 1964–66. Thirty-seven locomotives still operating trains of the Vitória a Minas Railroad.\n\nEMD supplied Egyptian Railways with 61 G16s in 1960–61 (ER numbers 3301–16) and 17 G16Ws in 1964–65 (ER numbers 3317–61).\n\nDuring the Six-Day War Israel captured Egyptian Railways 3304, 3329 and 3361 which were appropriated into Israel Railways stock as numbers 161–163. All have now been withdrawn from service but 163 (formerly ER 3361) is preserved at the Israel Railway Museum.\n\nIn Hong Kong there are four locomotives imported for the Kowloon-Canton Railway. It would later be used by MTR Corporation upon the merger. The first three were built by EMD in the USA, introduced in 1961 and numbered 56–58. The fourth was built by Clyde Engineering in Australia, introduced in 1966 and numbered 59. All were equipped with 16-567C engines and Co-Co wheel arrangements. 59 suffered a collision and was rebuilt with a 16-645E engine. The No.57 retired in 2009 and others still in use as of 2012.\n\nIn order to replace steam on the numerous light rail branches operated by the Nacionales de Mexico (NdeM), EMD export models G12 and G16 were obtained. A total of 24 G16 units were built by EMD for the NdeM, all equipped with dynamic brakes and introduced between 08/1958 and 07/1960, their running numbers being 7300 to 7323. The first 13 units (Nr. 7300 to 7312) had close clearance cabs, the last 11 units (Nr. 7313 to 7323) were delivered in 1960 and received a standard cab. Nr.7323 was pictured in 1963 with a standard cab, but appeared in 1974 with a close clearance cab, indicating that this unit was either rebuilt or more probably renumbered.\n\nThe RENFE Class 1900, later known as RENFE Class 319 were to the G16 design; 10 of the units were built at General Motors factory in USA and were single cabin machines, identical to a standard G16 with the exception of having Iberian gauge wheelsets. A further 93 locomotives were built under license using the same components but as twin-cab machines with a different external appearance and internal arrangement of components.\n\nThe EMD G16 (JŽ series 661) was one of the most used diesel locomotives in Yugoslavia. The type is colloquially nicknamed \"Kenedi\" after the US President John F. Kennedy. After the breakup in 1991, the locomotives were passed on to successor states:\n\nIn Croatia the locomotive is classified HŽ series 2061. As of 2007, the series has been withdrawn from service. Six modified units of the series 2061 is the series 2043.\n\nIn Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Slovenia have all kept the JŽ-era designation series 661.\n\nToday there are around 15 operational series 661 with Serbian Railways. Those locomotives are used mostly on non-electrified railways, primarily to haul freight trains, but also the passenger trains.\n\nKosovo Railways operates three former JŽ series 661. A fourth locomotive (001) was renumbered but is out of service. They no longer carry a type designation, instead they were just numbered 001 to 004. They are used to haul coal and clay trains.\n\nLocomotives 661-203 began a rebuilding program in 2008, undertaken by TŽV Gredelj (Croatia) in association with Electro-Motive Diesel; the bogies and traction motors were retained, but with a new frame and engine (EMD 8-710G3A). The locomotives were also converted to twin cab designs. The resulting new loco has EMD model code JT38CW-DC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1831474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1831474", "title": "Eta Aquariids", "text": "Eta Aquariids\n\nThe Eta Aquariids are a meteor shower associated with Halley%27s Comet.\n\nThe shower is visible from about April 19 to about May 28 each year with peak activity on or around May 5. Unlike most major annual meteor showers, there is no sharp peak for this shower, but rather a broad maximum with good rates that last approximately one week centered on May 5. The meteors we currently see as members of the Eta Aquariid shower separated from Halley’s Comet hundreds of years ago. The current orbit of Halley’s Comet does not pass close enough to the Earth to be a source of meteoric activity.\n\nAlthough this shower is not as spectacular as the Leonids may be and well below the rates of the Perseids or the Geminids, it is not an ordinary event. The Eta Aquariids get their name because their radiant appears to lie in the constellation Aquarius, near one of the constellation's brightest stars, Eta Aquarii. The shower peaks at about a rate of around a meteor per minute, although such rates are rarely seen from northern latitudes due to the low altitude of the radiant.\n\nThe Eta Aquariids are best viewed in the pre-dawn hours away from the glow of city lights. For northern observers, the radiant of the shower is only above the horizon for the few hours before dawn, and early-rising observers are often rewarded with rates that climb as the radiant rises before sunrise. The shower is best viewed from the equator to 30 degrees south latitude.\n\nThe activity is fairly constant from one return to the next. However, in 2013, the maximum ZHR exceeded the average level significantly for about two days. An explanation was presented by Mikiya Sato\n(Sato & Watanabe, 2013) , showing that the meteoroids are from very old ejection from the parent 1P/Halley and are trapped probably in resonances to Jupiter’s orbit (similar to the Orionids observed between 2007 and 2010). The peak ZHR reached 135 ± 16 . Updated information on the expected time and rates of the shower is provided through the annual IMO Meteor Shower Calendar .\n\n"}
{"id": "31310529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31310529", "title": "FFSA GT Championship", "text": "FFSA GT Championship\n\nThe FFSA GT Championship (\"Championnat de France FFSA GT\") is a French Grand Touring-style sports car racing series that began in 1997. It is the main event of the \"Championnat de France des Circuits\" (formerly called \"Super Série FFSA\" and \"GT Tour\").\n\nIt is controlled by the Fédération Française du Sport Automobile (FFSA) and organized by racing company Oreca. Since the demise of the French Supertouring Championship after the 2005 season, the French GT has become France's major circuit racing championship.\n\nFounded by Patrick Peter in 1997 as an offshoot of the international BPR Global GT Series, this national version featured a wide variety of Grand Touring-style cars in multiple classes competing at the same time on mostly French courses. In 1998 saw the SRO Group took over the series as the classes were reorganized to reflect the changes made in the new FIA GT Championship, continuing in a similar formula today. In 2011, the series was handed over from SRO to Oreca, a French racing team, constructor, and organiser of the Sportscar Winter Series and the former Formula Le Mans Cup.\n\nThe main class has used GTS car regulations from 1997 to 2004, GT1 from 2005 to 2009, and FIA GT3 from 2010 to 2016. The championship featured classes for both professionals and amateurs. GT3 rules included extensive performance balancing and handicap weights to make cars artificially more equal.\n\nIn 2016, grids depleted and Oreca cancelled the championship was cancelled. For the 2017 season, the SRO Group became again the promoter and the GT4 regulations were adopted.\n\n"}
{"id": "4230484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4230484", "title": "Fairtrade Fortnight", "text": "Fairtrade Fortnight\n\nFairtrade Fortnight is an annual promotional campaign which happens once every year, organized and funded by the Fairtrade Foundation to increase awareness of Fairtrade products. It makes use of volunteers who support the goals of Fairtrade but who may also be committed to the more general concepts of fair trade, ethical trading or concerned by development issues. The concept was pioneered by the Fairtrade Foundation in the United Kingdom, initially held in 1997 in Scotland and directed by Barnaby Miln.\n\nThe inaugural national launch was on 12 February 1997 at Augustine United Church on Edinburgh's George IV Bridge by Lady Marion Fraser, chairman of the charity Christian Aid. She broke a bar of Fairtrade chocolate to launch the event. It turned out to be a highly successful campaign to get every supermarket throughout Scotland to stock Fairtrade products. Barnaby Miln sent supporters of Christian Aid Scotland, SCIAF, Traidcraft, Oxfam and the World Development Movement a list of 85 supermarkets in Scotland's cities and larger towns, and encouraged during the Fortnight to go and ask for Fairtrade products.\n\nFairtrade Fortnight spread to the rest of the United Kingdom the following year; today, Fairtrade Fortnights are celebrated in several countries, most notably Ireland, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Awareness raising and promotion of Fairtrade certified products to the public are the main objectives of the Fortnight.\n\nUsually events held during the fortnight include:\n\nThese events are often supported by local authorities and governments, Fairtrade Steering Groups, dozens of charities and ATOs, all seeking to ensure that the local populace purchase fair and ethically traded goods. Local schools and colleges where Fairtrade is a frequently discussed topic can also play significant roles during Fairtrade Fortnight.\n\nEvents are highlighted and recorded on various nations' Fairtrade licensing bodies' websites (e.g. the Fairtrade Foundation in the UK or Fairtrade Canada). Most media outlets are keen to support a fast-growing trend in which previously disadvantaged third world producers have a fairer market to sell their wares and develop their economic capabilities.\n\nIn 2018 Fairtrade Fortnight is celebrated from 28 February to 11 March.\n\nCritics in the Fair trade debate claim that some volunteers can have an incorrect view of Fairtrade, because the information is concealed from them, in particular that the evidence that little or none of the extra amount paid by consumers always reaches the producers, and an alleged lack of evidence that Fairtrade has a positive impact on Third World producers. This argument is now largely obsolete as FLO-CERT, the Fairtrade Foundation and other nations' representative organisations and overseas development agencies continue to publish commodity reports and market analyses clearly indicating the benefits of the Fairtrade certification scheme over standard free market trade.\n\nUsing volunteers who allegedly do not understand the facts has in the past been criticised by Messrs. Davies and Crane in their report that The Day Chocolate Company, \"made considerable use of unpaid volunteer workers for routine tasks, many of whom seemed to be under the (false) impression that they were helping out a charity. Not only might one question the sometimes quite excessive use of unpaid labour in a for-profit organisation, but the management team at Day appeared to have no intention of correcting the obvious misapprehensions of the volunteers. However, this did not appear to be acknowledged as a potential ethical problem at Day.\"\n\nFairtrade International and The Fairtrade Foundation produce a significant volume of information and resources for volunteers and interested people who wish to learn more about all aspects of the Fairtrade framework, in addition to more in-depth commodity reports and market analyses across all commodity sectors where it licenses products.\n"}
{"id": "36387160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36387160", "title": "Fall of Krak des Chevaliers", "text": "Fall of Krak des Chevaliers\n\nThe Crusader fortress of Krak des Chevaliers fell to the Mamluk sultan Baibars in 1271. \nBaibars went north to deal with Krak des Chevaliers after the death of Louis IX of France on 29 November 1270.\n\nBefore marching on the castle Baibars captured the smaller castles in the area, including Chastel Blanc. On 3 March 1271, Baibars' army arrived at Krak des Chevaliers. By the time the Sultan arrived the castle may already have been blockaded by Mamluk forces for several days. There are three Arabic accounts of the siege; only one, that of Ibn Shaddad, was by a contemporary although he was not present. Peasants who lived in the area had fled to the castle for safety and were kept in the outer ward. As soon as Baibars arrived he began erecting mangonels, powerful siege weapons which he would turn on the castle. According to Ibn Shaddad, two days later the first line of defences was captured by the besiegers; he was probably referring to a walled suburb outside the castle's entrance.\n\nRain interrupted the siege, but on 21 March a triangular outwork immediately south of Krak des Chevaliers, possibly defended by a timber palisade, was captured. On 29 March, the tower in the south-west corner was undermined and collapsed. Baibars' army attacked through the breach and on entering the outer ward where they encountered the peasants who had sought refuge in the castle.\n\nThough the outer ward had fallen, and in the process a handful of the garrison killed, the Crusaders retreated to the more formidable inner ward. After a lull of ten days, the besiegers conveyed a letter to the garrison, supposedly from the Grand Master of the Knights Hospitaller in Tripoli which granted permission for them to surrender. Although the letter was a forgery, the garrison capitulated and the Sultan spared their lives. The new owners of the castle undertook repairs, focused mainly on the outer ward. The Hospitaller chapel was converted to a mosque and two mihrabs were added to the interior.\n\n"}
{"id": "53905865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53905865", "title": "Fyre Festival", "text": "Fyre Festival\n\nFyre Festival was a music festival scheduled to take place on the Bahamian island of Great Exuma over two weekends in April and May 2017.\n\nOrganized by Fyre Media founder Billy McFarland and rapper Ja Rule as a luxury music festival to promote the Fyre music booking app, the event was promoted on Instagram by \"social media influencers\" including socialite and model Kendall Jenner, model Bella Hadid, model and actress Emily Ratajkowski, and other media personalities, many of whom did not initially disclose they had been paid to do so, in violation of federal law. During the Fyre Festival's inaugural weekend, the event experienced problems related to security, food, accommodations and artist relations. Eventually, the festival was indefinitely postponed after some attendees had arrived, finding tents and prepackaged sandwiches, instead of the luxury villas and gourmet meals they had been promised when they paid thousands of dollars for admission.\n\nAs a result, the organizers are the subject of eight lawsuits, one seeking more than $100 million in damages. The cases accuse the organizers of defrauding ticket buyers. On June 30, 2017, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York charged McFarland with one count of wire fraud. In March 2018, he pled guilty to one count of wire fraud to defraud investors and a second count to defraud a ticket vendor. On October 11, 2018, McFarland was sentenced to six years in prison and ordered to forfeit US$26 million, for wire fraud.\n\nThe festival was organized by Billy McFarland and Jeffrey Atkins, a rapper who goes by the stage name Ja Rule to promote the Fyre music booking app. During a flight with McFarland, whom Atkins had come to know through regular visits to events McFarland hosted at his previous venture, Magnises, Atkins's private plane stopped on Great Exuma island in the Bahamas to refuel, and the two conceived the idea of the festival after taking the island in. After several small islands that seemed like likely venues were turned down, the Bahamian government gave McFarland a permit to use a site set aside for development at Roker Point.\n\nOn December 12, 2016, Kendall Jenner, Emily Ratajkowski and other influencers whom Fyre had paid to do so simultaneously posted to their Instagram feeds an image of an orange square with a stylized logo of flames. When viewers clicked on it they opened a promotional video showing Bella Hadid and other models represented by her agency running around a tropical beach. Text with the video promised \"an immersive music festival ... two transformative weekends ... on the boundaries of the impossible\". This was the beginning of the Fyre Festival's promotional campaign.\n\n\"It's one of the greatest social-media campaigns I've ever seen,\" a financial manager for a popular rapper commented later. \"They got the most beautiful women in the world, with the largest social following.\" However, when he called McFarland later to find out more, and found out that his partner was Ja Rule, he declined McFarland's invitation to invest, believing that the promises of the festival could only be fulfilled if a star as prominent as Jay-Z or Kanye West was involved. \"I was surprised at all the artists who committed,\" he recalled later, because \"we didn't take this seriously at all.\"\n\nOne of those who did invest, fashion executive Carola Jain, reportedly arranged for Fyre to receive a $4 million loan. The company used most of it to rent luxurious offices in Manhattan's TriBeCa neighborhood. With no experience staging an event of the proposed festival's scale, McFarland began reaching out to companies that did. However, he was reportedly taken aback when they told him the event would cost at least $5 million, perhaps even $12 million to stage in the time available as he had promised; he and his associates at Fyre believed it would cost far less and continued with their plans under that assumption, which one executive at a company he contacted calls \"a complete detachment from reality\". They tried to do things themselves where possible; McFarland supposedly learned how to rent the stage by doing a Google search.\n\nScheduled for two weekends in April and May 2017, the event sold day tickets for $1,500, and VIP packages including airfare and luxury tent accommodations for . Customers were promised accommodations in \"modern, eco-friendly, geodesic domes\" and meals from celebrity chefs.\n\nContrary to the festival's promotional material, \"Fyre Cay\", the festival site, a remote private island it falsely claimed once belonged to drug trafficker Pablo Escobar, did not exist. Instead, workers in the Bahamas were busy preparing Roker Point for the festival, scattering sand over its rocks and improving a road to a nearby beach, where they built some cabanas and installed swing sets. On the mainland, five thousand tickets had been sold and an air service hired to charter festivalgoers from Miami. A medical-services company and caterer were hired, although the latter withdrew a few weeks before the festival.\n\nIn March 2017, Fyre also hired a veteran event producer, Yaron Lavi, who saw that it was possible to hold the sort of event McFarland and Atkins envisioned, at the site. He assumed, however, that they would reschedule the event to November as they had been discussing since they were not ready. But after they told him they would stage the event in the spring anyway, he said they would have to abandon the plans for temporary villas and instead erect tents, the only accommodations that could be delivered in the time remaining. Lavi advised Fyre to make this clear to those who had already bought tickets as otherwise it would be damaging to their brand; he says the company assured him that an email was being prepared, but he is not sure if it was sent.\n\nComcast Ventures considered investing $25 million in the app, which McFarland apparently hoped would allow him to finance the festival, but declined days beforehand. Reportedly McFarland had valued Fyre Media at $90 million, and was unable to provide sufficient proof of that when Comcast requested it.\n\nWriting for \"New York\" magazine, one of the event organizers would later note that since at least mid-March, there were significant problems with the planning, and at one point it was agreed to outright cancel the 2017 festival in favor of working to perfect a 2018 one. These plans however were revoked at the last minute with the decision to go on with the event as planned. \"Let's just do it and be legends, man\", one of the organizers is reported to have said.\n\nLater that month, \"Page Six\" began reporting rumors that the festival organizers were too disorganized and \"in over their heads\".\n\nBusiness journalist Bryan Burrough later reported in \"Vanity Fair\" that after the Comcast deal fell through, McFarland had obtained some temporary financing for Fyre through investor Ezra Birnbaum that required the company repay at least half a million dollars of the loan within 16 days. The only place where the company could get that kind of money within that time was from the festival receipts. Burrough speculates that this may have been McFarland's primary motivation for proceeding with the festival despite the many difficulties.\n\nAround this same time, Fyre informed ticketholders that the event would be \"cashless (and cardless),\" and encouraged attendees to put up to $1,500 in advance on a digital Fyre Band to cover incidentals, according to one lawsuit. McFarland, who signed the email, suggested that they upload $300–500 for every day they planned to attend. According to a lawsuit later filed by Birnbaum, 40% of this money was to be used to pay off the short-term loan.\n\nOn April 27, attendees began arriving on chartered flights from Miami International Airport to Exuma International Airport operated by Swift Air and Xtra Airways. Initial arrivals were brought to an \"impromptu beach party\" rather than the festival grounds while later arrivals were brought directly to the grounds where the true state of the festival's site became apparent.\n\nAround nightfall, one musical act, a group of local musicians, took to the stage and played for a few hours. They were the only act to perform. In the early morning, it was announced that the festival would be postponed and that the attendees would be returned to Miami as soon as possible. Reports from the festival emerged of mishandling of guests' baggage, scattered disaster relief tents with dirt floors, mattresses that were soaking wet, no place to sleep as there were no housing assignments, an unfinished gravel lot, lack of staff, no cell phone or internet service, portable toilets, no water, inadequate and poor quality food including cheese sandwiches made with slices of processed cheese on wheat bread with a salad served in foam containers, theft, lack of medical personnel, and heavy-handed security. Many attendees were reportedly stranded as flights to and from the island were cancelled following a government order that was not allowing any more planes to land.\n\nThe first flight back to Miami boarded at 1:30AM April 28 but was delayed for hours due to issues with the flight's manifest. It was cancelled after sunrise and passengers were locked in the Exuma Airport terminal without access to food or water and no air conditioning; one passenger recalls that at least one person passed out from the heat. The flight eventually left Exuma that morning. More charter flights to Miami departed Exuma throughout the day.\n\nWith $3.1 million in venture capital to date and 25 employees, Billy McFarland also founded a card company called \"Magnises\", which promised members paying an annual $250 fee that they could \"unlock their cities and take their lives to the next level,\" including \"private members-only concerts, tastings with notable chefs, and exclusive art previews at top galleries.\" The \"Washington Post\" reported that \"some of those benefits never materialized or were far from what was advertised.\" \"They send the same email for every problem, but it's like fill-in-the-blanks for what the problem is,\" a member reported to \"Business Insider\". Magnises reportedly became profitable in 2015.\n\nThe \"Washington Post\" reported that McFarland \"has a history of overpromising\" in his previous business ventures, and cited multiple examples. For example, after McFarland sold tickets to the musical \"Hamilton\" for $430, the tickets were cancelled at the last minute. In a complaint to the Better Business Bureau, one customer seeking a refund reported getting no response to multiple queries over a month and a half.\n\nThe event was promoted on Instagram by Kardashian family socialite Kendall Jenner (who was paid $250,000 and has since deleted the post), Bella Hadid, Emily Ratajkowski, Hailey Baldwin, Elsa Hosk, Chanel Iman, Lais Ribeiro, Alessandra Ambrosio, Shanina Shaik, Nadine Leopold, Rose Bertram, Gizele Oliveira, Hannah Ferguson, and other niche-actresses and media personalities. Ratajkowski was reportedly the only actress or model to use the hashtag #ad, but has also since deleted the post. Only later was it reported that Jenner and the others had been paid to make the posts, something they were required under federal law to disclose. The Federal Trade Commission said #ad only worked if at the beginning of paid posts, and that the hashtag alone was not a sufficient disclaimer.\n\nJa Rule posted a note on Twitter that said \"it was NOT A SCAM\" and \"this is NOT MY FAULT\".\n\nFyre Festival posted a statement on their website:\nMany news organizations compared the chaos to William Golding's novel \"Lord of the Flies\" and Suzanne Collins's book \"The Hunger Games\". The Bahamas Ministry of Tourism apologized on behalf of the nation and denied having responsibility for how the events unfolded. Fyre Festival announced that it would offer all attendees a choice between a full refund or VIP tickets to the following year's festival.\n\nAs a result of the festival, McFarland and Ja Rule are the subject of a $100 million lawsuit in the state of California. It was filed on behalf of plaintiff Daniel Jung by entertainment lawyer Mark Geragos, who is seeking class action status for the lawsuit with over 150 plaintiffs. Per the filing, Jung's lawsuit alleges fraud, breach of contract (part of this was the decision from organizers to go cashless so no one had money for taxis), breach of covenant of good faith (part of this was due to the \"cheese sandwich\" meme and the airport incident) and negligent misrepresentation. Ben Meiselas of Geragos's firm pledged to hold \"all those who recklessly and blindly promoted the festival\" accountable, which was interpreted as being directed at Jenner, Hadid, and other social media \"influencers\". A Geragos lawyer stated Fyre Festival sent cease and desist letters to whistleblowers.\n\nA second class action lawsuit against Fyre Media, McFarland, Ja Rule, and the event promoters identified as \"Does 1-100\" was filed in Los Angeles by personal injury lawyer, John Girardi on behalf of 3 attendees. The plaintiff alleges that they deceived patrons into attending the festival by paying over 400 social media personalities and celebrities to promote it. The parties are accused of breach of contract, negligent misrepresentation, and fraud. A Bloomberg reporter filed a FOIA to the FTC regarding their Instagram knowledge, after the second class action lawsuit zinged the event promoters.\n\nA third lawsuit was filed in New York federal court against Ja Rule, McFarland, Fyre Media, and chief marketing officer Grant Margolin. Plaintiffs Matthew Herlihy and Anthony Lauriello accused the festival organizers of \"false representations, material omissions... negligence, fraud, and violations of consumer protection statutes\". \"Upon the arrival of guests to the island of Great Exuma for the first weekend, the island was lacking basic amenities, was covered in dirt, and guests had to sleep in tents with wet blankets,\" the suit claims. \"There were no communal showers or bathrooms as promised; instead there were porta potties (only about one for every 200 yards) that were knocked down and only three showers although there were hundreds of people arriving.\"\n\nIn May, two more lawsuits were filed against Fyre; bringing the total to five. On May 4; National Event Services, which provided medical services for the festival, filed a lawsuit, claiming to have suffered $250,000 in damages and alleging breach of contract, fraud, and negligence on the organizers' behalves. Fyre \"failed and/or refused\" to buy cancellation insurance and \"failed to secure a contract with a medical evacuation helicopter or plane.\" NES employees reported that the medical clinic was closed and the accommodations were \"uninhabitable\", with \"bug infestation, bloodstained mattresses, and no air conditioning.\" In New Jersey federal court, festival attendee Andrew Petrozziello filed a lawsuit alleging that the organizers' violated state consumer fraud act and committed breach of contract.\n\nA sixth lawsuit, filed in Florida federal court as a class action suit, alleges violations that include fraud, negligence, and breach of contract. The plaintiffs Kenneth and Emily Reel accused the organizers of sending cease and desist letters to people who criticized the festival on social media.\n\nA seventh lawsuit was filed in Manhattan federal court as a class action suit on behalf of Sean Daly and Edward Ivey. In addition to the infractions mentioned in the other lawsuits, this suit alleges unjust enrichment and violation of New York state business law, claiming that the organizers continued to offer VIP upgrades and opportunities to deposit money into the \"Fyre Band\" payment system after the festival had been canceled.\n\nAn eighth lawsuit was filed in Suffolk County Superior Court on behalf of ticketing vendor Tablelist. The company is alleging that the festival organizers and financial backers committed breach of contract and fraudulently deceived Tablelist and ticket purchasers. Tablelist is seeking $3.5 million to refund customers, as well as damages resulting from loss of business after being forced to lay off 40% of their workforce to focus on the litigation.\n\nOn July 3, 2018, two North Carolina attendees were granted $5 million in damages. One of them, a blogger whose live-tweeting of the festival got much media coverage, has declared he has purchased the Fyre Festival trademark following its abandonment by the original organizers.\n\nOn May 21, 2017, \"The New York Times\" reported McFarland and his associates are under an active federal criminal investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for mail fraud, wire fraud, and securities fraud. The case is being overseen by the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. On June 30, 2017, McFarland was arrested and charged with one count of wire fraud.\n\nOn March 6, 2018, McFarland pled guilty to one count wire fraud in what the U.S. Justice Department called a scheme to defraud investors, as well as a second count of wire fraud related to a scheme to defraud a ticket vendor. McFarland was ordered to repay $26 million to investors.\n\nOn July 24, 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) announced that McFarland, two companies he founded, a former senior executive, and a former contractor agreed to settle charges arising out of an extensive, multi-year offering fraud that raised at least $27.4 million from over 100 investors. McFarland admitted to the SEC's allegations against him, agreed to a permanent officer-and-director bar, and agreed to disgorgement of $27.4 million. Grant H. Margolin, Daniel Simon, Fyre Media, and Magnises, Inc. agreed to the settlement without admitting or denying the charges. Margolin has agreed to a 7-year director-and-officer bar and must pay a $35,000 penalty, and Simon has agreed to a 3-year director-and-officer bar and must pay over $15,000 in disgorgement and penalty. The settlements are subject to court approval.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26468978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26468978", "title": "Haigui", "text": "Haigui\n\nHaigui () is a Chinese language slang term for Chinese people who have returned to mainland China after having studied abroad for several years. These graduates from foreign universities are highly sought after in Chinese business, and thus can gain employment ahead of those who have graduated from Chinese universities. However, the salary demands of haigui are considered unrealistically high by some employers. The homophonic (also \"hǎiguī\") meaning \"sea turtle\" is sometimes used as a metaphor since sea turtles also travel great distances overseas. The term \"overseas turtle\" is also used.\n\nSome haigui have returned to China due to the late-2000s recession in the U.S. and Europe. According to PRC government statistics, only a quarter of the 1.2 million Chinese people who have gone abroad to study in the past 30 years have returned. As MIT Sloan School of Management professor Yasheng Huang states:\nThe Chinese educational system is terrible at producing workers with innovative skills for Chinese economy. It produces people who memorize existing facts rather than discovering new facts; who fish for existing solutions rather than coming up with new ones; who execute orders rather than inventing new ways of doing things. In other words they do not solve problems for their employers. \nThe Westernized way of thinking of haigui may be a threat to the politics of the People's Republic of China, which curtail personal freedoms.\n\nThe word is a pun, as \"hai\" means \"ocean\" and \"gui\" is a homophone of \"gui\" meaning \"to return.\" The name was first used by Ren Hong, a young man returning to China as a graduate of Yale University seven years after leaving aboard a tea freighter from Guangzhou to the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8102552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8102552", "title": "Harcourt interpolation", "text": "Harcourt interpolation\n\nThe Harcourt interpolation was a scandal of Victorian London in which a rogue compositor inserted an obscene remark into a page proof for \"The Times\" newspaper, in the middle of a speech by a leading politician of the day. The addition was not noticed until after the first edition had been printed and efforts to recall the copies were not entirely successful.\n\nIn January 1882, as Parliament was not sitting, \"The Times\" included lengthy verbatim reports from speeches given by politicians outside Parliament. On Sunday 22 January, the Attorney General Sir Henry James and Home Secretary Sir William Harcourt went to Burton upon Trent to open the St Paul's Institute, afterwards addressing speeches towards a crowd of between 7,000 and 8,000. Harcourt made reference to a by-election campaign then being fought in the North Riding of Yorkshire (polling day was Thursday 26 January), in which the Liberal candidate, Samuel Rowlandson, was a tenant farmer. \"The Times\" decided to print a verbatim report of both speeches in the edition to be published on the next morning, Monday 23 January 1882.\n\n\"The Times\"' compositors were in dispute with the newspaper management and the report of Harcourt's speech printed in the first edition read (the '/' represent end-of-line in the original):\n\nThe interpolation was not noticed until after the first edition had been printed and distributed. \"The Times\" sent out urgent telegraph messages to recall all unsold copies.\n\nAccording to the collector of erotic literature Henry Spencer Ashbee, when spotted the line was replaced by stars in subsequent editions. Sir William Harcourt's son Lewis noted in his diary that the \"disgraceful interpolation of an obscene line\" had been \"discovered before the second edition was published and so it only appears in the first\". Talk about the misprint became widespread and many curious people sought to see it; this demand combined with the restricted supply (due to \"The Times\" efforts to recall all copies containing it) to raise the market price of editions containing it. A newspaper with a cover price of 3d. was changing hands for 12s. 6d. by the middle of the morning. Sir Edward Walter Hamilton noted in his diary on 26 January that copies were selling \"at all sorts of fancy prices\" and reported that Lord Wolverton had told him they were fetching 20s. at Brighton on 25 January. The Dublin \"Freeman's Journal\" reported that £5 was being offered for copies.\n\nA revised copy was printed for subscribers and for libraries which kept bound copies, but \"The Times\" wrote nothing more about the incident immediately. Sir Edward Walter Hamilton noted on 26 January that Sir William Harcourt had not received an apology, and wrote that \"Harcourt will never hear the end of it\" (although Hamilton regarded the story primarily as amusing). However an apology appeared in the issue for Friday 27 January 1882:\n\nSir Edward Walter Hamilton noted that the effect of this paragraph was to draw \"more attention than ever to the compositor's obscene line\". The incident was reported by the Portuguese writer, journalist and diplomat Eça de Queiroz in an article which now forms part of his book \"Cartas de Inglaterra\". Samuel Palmer, in compiling a quarterly index to \"The Times\", included a reference:\n\nAccording to Peter Brown, production editor of \"The Times\" in 1992, the compositor responsible was identified after an inquiry as G. Price; fellow \"Times\" journalist Philip Howard described him as \"a disgruntled compositor who had been given his cards\". A few months later a similar addition was made to an advertisement for the book \"Everyday Life in Our Public Schools\" in the issue of \"The Times\" for 12 June 1882. This book was said to include \"a glossary of some words used by Henry Irving in his disquisitions upon fucking, which is in common use in these schools\". The \"Times\" maintained a dignified silence about it, but for many years after it was a rule on the paper that any compositor who was sacked left immediately with a payoff and did not work out a period of notice. The copy of the edition containing the misprint delivered to the Library of the British Museum was removed from the general collection and suppressed.\n\nBob Clarke, author of 'From Grub Street to Fleet Street', reported that a copy of \"The Times\" featuring the misprint had changed hands for £100 at an auction in the mid-1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "23725791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23725791", "title": "Henry Louis Gates arrest controversy", "text": "Henry Louis Gates arrest controversy\n\nOn July 16, 2009, Harvard University professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. was arrested at his Cambridge, Massachusetts, home by local police officer Sgt. James Crowley, who was responding to a 9-1-1 caller's report of men breaking and entering the residence. The arrest initiated a series of events that unfolded under the spotlight of the international news media.\n\nThe arrest occurred just after Gates returned home to Cambridge after a trip to China to research the ancestry of Yo-Yo Ma for \"Faces of America\". Gates found the front door to his home jammed shut and, with the help of his driver, tried to force it open. A local witness reported their activity to the police as a potential burglary in progress. Accounts regarding the ensuing confrontation differ, but Gates was arrested by the responding officer, Cambridge Police Sgt. James Crowley, and charged with disorderly conduct. On July 21, the charges against Gates were dropped. The arrest generated a national debate about whether or not it represented an example of racial profiling by police.\n\nOn July 22, President Barack Obama said about the incident, \"I don't know, not having been there and not seeing all the facts, what role race played in that. But I think it's fair to say, number one, any of us would be pretty angry; number two, that the Cambridge police acted stupidly in arresting somebody when there was already proof that they were in their own home, and, number three, what I think we know separate and apart from this incident is that there's a long history in this country of African Americans and Latinos being stopped by law enforcement disproportionately.\" Law enforcement organizations and members objected to Obama's comments and criticized his handling of the issue. In the aftermath, Obama stated that he regretted his comments and hoped that the situation could become a \"teachable moment\".\n\nOn July 24, Obama invited both parties to the White House to discuss the issue over beer, and on July 30, Obama and Vice President Joe Biden joined Crowley and Gates in a private, cordial meeting in a courtyard near the White House Rose Garden; this became known colloquially as the \"Beer Summit\".\n\nAn independent panel with experts from across the nation published a report on June 30, 2010, which states that \"Sergeant Crowley and Professor Gates each missed opportunities to 'ratchet down' the situation and end it peacefully\" and share responsibility for the controversial July 16 arrest. Crowley could have better explained how uncertain and potentially dangerous it is to respond to a serious crime-in-progress call and why this can result in a seemingly rude tone. Gates could have tried to understand Crowley's view of the situation and could have spoken respectfully to Crowley. The report cites research that shows people's feelings about a police encounter depend significantly on whether they feel the officer displays respect and courtesy.\n\nOn July 16, 2009, Gates had just returned from an overseas trip. As the front door of his home would not open, Gates entered through the back door. Once inside, he still could not open the front door. Gates later stated that the lock was damaged and speculated that someone had attempted to \"jimmy\" it. Gates went back outside and, with help from his driver, forced the door open. Since the house is university-owned, he then reported the problem to Harvard's maintenance department.\n\nAfter Gates' driver left, the Cambridge police arrived, alerted by the 9-1-1 call of a neighbor, Lucia Whalen. There are multiple published accounts of the subsequent events which led to the arrest of Gates, including the police report, interviews with Sgt. Crowley and other officers on the scene; and published interviews with Gates and Whalen.\n\nAccording to the police report, Crowley arrived at the scene, went up to the front door, and asked Gates to step outside. Crowley explained he was investigating the report of a break-in in progress; as he did so, Gates opened the front door and said, \"Why, because I'm a black man in America?\"\n\nCrowley's report states that he believed Gates was lawfully in the residence, but that he was surprised and confused by Gates' behavior, which included a threat that Crowley did not know who he was \"messing with.\" Crowley then asked Gates for a photo ID so as to verify he was the resident of the house; Gates initially refused, but then did supply his Harvard University identification card. Crowley wrote that Gates repeatedly shouted requests for his identification. Crowley then told Gates that he was leaving his residence and that if Gates wanted to continue discussing the matter, he would speak to him outside. Gates replied, \"Yeah, I'll speak with your mama outside.\" On the 9-1-1 dispatcher audio recordings, a man's loud voice is heard in the background at several points during Sgt. Crowley's transmissions.\n\nGates stepped onto his front porch and continued to yell at Crowley, accusing him of racial bias and saying he had not heard the last of him. Faced with this tumultuous behavior from Gates, even though he was still standing on his own front porch, Crowley warned Gates that he was becoming disorderly. When Gates ignored this warning and persisted in his behavior, and likewise ignored a second warning from Crowley, Crowley informed him that he was under arrest.\n\nGates's account of the events first appeared in \"The Root\" on July 20. According to the statement, Gates saw Crowley at the door as he was speaking to the Harvard Real Estate Office to have his front door fixed. When he opened the front door, Crowley immediately asked him to step outside. Gates did not comply and asked Crowley why he was there. When told that Crowley was a police officer investigating a reported breaking and entering, Gates replied that it was his house, and he was a Harvard faculty member. Crowley asked Gates whether he could prove it; Gates told him he could, and turned to go to the kitchen to fetch his wallet. Crowley followed him into the house. Gates then handed Crowley his Harvard University ID and a current driver's license, both including his photograph, the license also giving his address.\n\nGates then asked Crowley for his name and badge number, but Crowley did not respond. Following repeated requests for Crowley's name and badge number, the officer left the kitchen; Gates followed him to the front door. As he stepped out the front door and asked the other officers for Crowley's name and badge number, Crowley said, \"Thank you for accommodating my earlier request,\" and arrested Gates on his front porch.\n\nIn an interview published in \"The Root\" on July 21, Gates said that when Crowley first asked him to step outside onto the porch, \"the way he said it, I knew he wasn't canvassing for the police benevolent association. All the hairs stood up on the back of my neck, and I realized that I was in danger. And I said to him no, out of instinct. I said, 'No, I will not.'\" \"He demanded that I step out on the porch, and I don't think he would have done that if I was a white person.\" Gates called the references to loud and tumultuous behavior in the police report a \"joke\"; he had been physically incapable of yelling at the time, due to a severe bronchial infection. As he was walked to the car in handcuffs, he asked, \"Is this how you treat a black man in America?\" In an interview with columnist Maureen Dowd, Gates denied he had made a reference to the mother of the arresting officer.\n\nLucia Whalen was the witness and original 9-1-1 caller reporting the incident. Sgt. Crowley stated in his official police report that when he arrived at the scene, he spoke to Whalen, who told him she had \"observed what appeared to be two black males with backpacks\" trying to force entry. Whalen subsequently denied making any such comment to Crowley.\nWhalen was hurt by widespread comments labeling her a racist, based on the \"two black males with backpacks\" quote in the police report.\n\nA recording of her 9-1-1 call was released on July 27; in it, Whalen could be heard saying, \"I don't know if they live there and they just had a hard time with their key.\" When asked for a more detailed description by the dispatcher, her reply on the tape was, \"One looked kind of Hispanic, but I'm not really sure. And the other one entered and I didn't see what he looked like at all.\"\n\nGates was held for four hours and charged with disorderly conduct. The charges were dropped five days later, on July 21, 2009, by the Middlesex County district attorney's office, upon the recommendation of the city of Cambridge and the Cambridge Police Department. A joint press release by the authorities and Professor Gates said all parties had agreed that this was \"a just resolution to an unfortunate set of circumstances\" and that the incident \"should not be viewed as one that demeans the character and reputation of Professor Gates or the character of the Cambridge Police Department.\"\n\nSgt. Crowley said he would not apologize for his actions. He was backed up by the Cambridge Police Superior Officers Association, that released a statement saying his actions had been consistent with police training, policies and applicable legal standards.\n\nThe incident was first reported in \"The Harvard Crimson\", the campus newspaper, the Monday morning after the arrest. Following a write-up by the Associated Press that afternoon, the story spread quickly. Public interest in the arrest grew when newspapers published the photograph showing a handcuffed Gates being escorted away from the front door.\n\nA number of individuals commented on the incident in the days that followed. The Governor of Massachusetts, Deval Patrick, stated that he felt \"troubled\" about the situation. The Mayor of Cambridge, E. Denise Simmons, suggested that the incident was a \"teachable moment\" and that she hoped there would be meaningful dialog between Mr. Gates, the police force, and the general public.\n\nSome members of the Harvard community raised questions about racial profiling. The Reverend Al Sharpton discussed the incident and referred to it as one of \"police abuse or racial profiling\", calling it \"outrageous\" and \"unbelievable.\" Gates argued that the police picked on him because of his race, and said that he would use the incident to raise awareness of alleged police mistreatment of blacks, suggesting that he may plan a documentary about it.\n\nSgt. James Crowley's supporters noted he was chosen by a black police commissioner to serve as an instructor for a Lowell Police Academy course entitled \"Racial Profiling\", which Crowley has taught since 2004. While working as a campus police officer at Brandeis University in 1993, Crowley had tried to revive African American Boston Celtics star Reggie Lewis with mouth-to-mouth resuscitation after the latter suffered a fatal heart attack. Crowley received public support from many police officers, including African Americans, who portrayed him as a good and fair officer.\n\nSgt. Leon Lashley, a black officer who was present at Gates's arrest, said he supported Sgt. Crowley's actions \"100 percent.\" Lashley added that he thought it would have gone differently, with no arrest, if he had been the first officer to arrive on the scene and the initial encounter with Gates had been \"black man to black man.\" Another officer in the Cambridge police department said \"racism is not part of it, and that is what is frustrating.\"\n\nJon Shane, who spent 17 years as a police officer in Newark, New Jersey, and is a professor of criminal justice at John Jay College of Criminal Justice who specializes in police policy and practice, told \"Time\" magazine that, had he been the responding officer, he would not have arrested Gates after identifying him. He described Gates's behavior as \"contempt of cop\" which officers are supposed to handle as a first amendment right under the U.S. Constitution (cf.\"Cohen v. California\", which affirmed a right to \"offensive\" speech). Tom Nolan, a criminal justice professor at Boston University who spent 27 years in uniform at the Boston Police Department, was quoted in the same article supporting an officer's use of discretion in disorderly conduct cases. Eugene O'Donnell, a professor of law and police studies at John Jay College, told the \"Time\" reporter that disorderly conduct is \"probably the most abused statute in America.\"\n\nDavid E. Frank, a senior news reporter for \"Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly\" and former prosecutor in Massachusetts, commented that, from a legal standpoint, \"the decision not to prosecute certainly seems to be the correct one.\" In his analysis, even if the prosecution could prove all of the disputed factual allegations in Crowley's report, Massachusetts case law does not consider offensive and abusive language to be disorderly conduct per se, and they would be unlikely to prevail in court. Attorney Harvey A. Silverglate suggested that the charges were dropped because Gates would almost certainly have prevailed in court with a First Amendment defense, an outcome that would have severely curtailed future arrests for disorderly conduct in \"contempt of cop\" situations.\n\nIn an interview with CNN, General Colin Powell, former Secretary of State and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman offered opinions on both sides of the incident. With regard to Gates, Powell said \"I think he should have reflected on whether or not this was the time to make that big a deal\". Powell recalled that he was taught as a child \"not to argue with a police officer trying to do their job\" and that Gates should have instead cooperated to avoid making the situation difficult, suggested that Gates could afterwards file a complaint or lawsuit if he disagreed with the officer. With regard to Sgt. Crowley, Powell stated that: \"Once they felt they had to bring Dr. Gates out of the house and to handcuff him, I would've thought at that point, some adult supervision would have stepped in and said 'OK look, it is his house. Let's not take this any further, take the handcuffs off, good night Dr. Gates.\"\n\nA review conducted by the \"Cambridge Review Committee,\" which was formed by the Cambridge City Manager Robert W. Healy at the recommendation of Cambridge Police Commissioner Robert Haas, concluded that the incident was avoidable, noting that \"Sergeant Crowley and Professor Gates each missed opportunities to 'rachet down' the situation and end it peacefully.\"\n\nBoth Gates and Crowley have been active participants with the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles, California. Abraham Cooper, the associate dean of the center, has invited both of them back to the center in order to \"create the next real 'teaching moment' for our nation.\" \n\nOn July 28, it was revealed in the media that Justin Barrett, a 36-year-old Boston Police Department officer who has been on the job for two years, and is also a member of the Massachusetts National Guard, sent a mass e-mail to fellow National Guardsmen and to \"The Boston Globe\" in which he referred to Gates as a \"jungle monkey.\" Although the email was signed only \"JB\", when he was asked about it, Barrett admitted to his BPD superiors that he was the author. According to an article in the \"Boston Globe\", Barrett wrote the email containing the racial slur \"in reaction to media coverage of Gates's arrest July 16,\" in particular to a July 22 \"Globe\" column by Yvonne Abraham, who expressed support for Gates. In the e-mail, Barrett wrote, \"If I was the officer he [Gates] verbally assaulted like a banana-eating jungle monkey, I would have sprayed him in the face with OC [oleorosin capsicum, or pepper spray] deserving of his belligerent non-compliance.\" During the course of the message, Barrett used the phrase \"jungle monkey\" four times, three times in reference to Gates and once in reference to Abraham's column, which he characterized as \"jungle monkey gibberish.\"\n\nUpon learning of the incident, Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis immediately stripped Officer Barrett of his gun and badge, put him on administrative leave, and scheduled a termination hearing. The Massachusetts National Guard also suspended Barrett. In reaction to the news of Barrett's conduct, Boston Mayor Thomas Menino compared the officer to a \"cancer\" and said he is \"gone, g-o-n-e\" from the Boston police force.\n\nBarrett, in a television interview, said that he used \"a poor choice of words\" in the email. He added, \"I did not mean to offend anyone.\" Barrett also stated, \"I have so many friends of every type of culture and race you can name. I am not a racist.\" In August 2009, Barrett filed an unsuccessful suit against the Boston Police Department and the City of Boston, charging that the suspension from his duties was a violation of his civil rights. Barrett was discharged from duty on February 5, 2010. On April 26, 2010, the Department of Unemployment Assistance (DUA) denied Barrett unemployment benefits. That decision would be reversed four times, the last being on July 15, 2013, when the Massachusetts Appeals Court ruled that his \"egregious misconduct\" was \"obviously intentional.\"\n\nDuring a July 22 news conference concerning health care reform, columnist Lynn Sweet, Washington, D.C. bureau chief for the \"Chicago Sun-Times,\" asked President Barack Obama \"Recently, Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. was arrested at his home in Cambridge. What does that incident say to you? And what does it say about race relations in America?\" Obama replied, \"Now, I've – I don't know, not having been there and not seeing all the facts, what role race played in that. But I think it's fair to say, number one, any of us would be pretty angry; number two, that the Cambridge police acted stupidly in arresting somebody when there was already proof that they were in their own home. And number three, what I think we know separate and apart from this incident is that there is a long history in this country of African-Americans and Latinos being stopped by law enforcement disproportionately. That's just a fact.\" The President also acknowledged that Gates is a personal friend.\n\nObama's remarks sparked a reaction from law-enforcement professionals. James Preston, president of the Fraternal Order of Police Florida State Lodge, stated: \"To make such an off-handed comment about a subject without benefit of the facts, in such a public forum, hurts police/community relations and is a setback to all of the years of progress\". Preston further warned that \"by reducing all contact between law enforcement and the public to the color of their skin or ethnicity is, in fact, counter-productive to improving relationships\". In addition, the Cambridge police commissioner, describing the impact of the accusations, commented that \"this department is deeply pained. It takes its professional pride seriously\". On July 24, 2009, a multiracial group of police officers demanded an apology from President Obama and Governor Deval Patrick for making comments which the police described as insulting. Republican congressman Thaddeus McCotter said he would introduce a resolution in the House of Representatives calling on the president to apologize to Crowley. An opinion poll released by Pew Research found that 41 percent disapproved of Obama's \"handling of the situation,\" while only 29 percent approved, and support from white voters dropped from 53 percent to 46 percent.\n\nPresident Obama appeared unannounced at a White House press briefing on July 24, and said, \"I want to make clear that in my choice of words I think I unfortunately gave an impression that I was maligning the Cambridge Police Department or Sergeant Crowley specifically – and I could have calibrated those words differently.\" Also, that \"I continue to believe, based on what I have heard, that there was an overreaction in pulling Professor Gates out of his home to the station. I also continue to believe, based on what I heard, that Professor Gates probably overreacted as well.\"\n\nPresident Obama called both men on July 24, and invited them to the White House to discuss the situation over beers. Both men accepted the offer. Upon accepting, Gates stated in an email to \"The Boston Globe\" that \"My entire academic career has been based on improving race relations, not exacerbating them. I am hopeful that my experience will lead to greater sensitivity to issues of racial profiling in the criminal justice system.\"\n\nOne of Gates's lawyers, Harvard Law Professor Charles Ogletree, a former professor of Obama, stated that \"I think the president has taken the right approach by trying to make sure we move forward [...] He's always had the ability to negotiate difficult conversations, and his steps today are an important step in the right direction. I think the president has given his assessment, which makes a lot of sense, and, however you feel about it, it has reduced the temperature and allowed everyone to move forward in a constructive way.\" Ogletree has since written a book about the case. Steve Killion, president of the Cambridge patrol officers association, also stated \"I'm absolutely pleased with [Obama's call]. I think it was a good thing for the president to do. ... We all want to see this behind us.\"\n\nOn July 30, President Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, Professor Gates, and Sergeant Crowley met at the White House. Initially the Gates and Crowley families were given separate tours of the White House. The families then continued their tours together while the principals had a friendly conversation over beer. Crowley and Gates told Obama that they had already planned to meet again soon for lunch. Obama said he believed \"what brings us together is stronger than what pulls us apart\" and that after the meeting he was \"hopeful that all of us are able to draw this positive lesson from this episode.\"\n\nBoth Crowley and Gates issued post-meeting statements. Crowley commented that he and Gates discussed the topic \"like two gentlemen, instead of fighting it out either in the physical sense or in the mental sense, in the court of public opinion.\" Gates commented that he hoped \"that this experience will prove an occasion for education, not recrimination. I know that Sergeant Crowley shares this goal.\" In an interview with \"The New York Times\", Gates further commented on the meeting, \"I don't think anybody but Barack Obama would have thought about bringing us together [...] the president was great – he was very wise, very sage, very Solomonic.\" When asked for his impression of Crowley, Gates joked: \"We hit it off right from the very beginning [...] when he's not arresting you, Sergeant Crowley is a really likable guy.\"\n\nDuring an appearance on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", Gates stated that relations between him and Crowley are amicable. He also revealed that he asked Crowley for a sample of his DNA, and that he and Crowley are distant cousins and share a common Irish ancestor. On the show, Gates stated that Crowley recently gave him the handcuffs used in the arrest. When asked what he would do with the handcuffs, Gates stated that he plans to donate the handcuffs to the Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History and Culture.\n\nGates later revealed during a National Press Club luncheon that he had met with Sgt Crowley for a beer prior to the Beer Summit at the suggestion of President Bill Clinton. Gates said that he was moved when Crowley told him \"Professor, all I wanted was to go home to my wife at the end of the day.\" Gates further recounted that Crowley had feared that another black man had been upstairs who could at any moment have come down and killed him. Gates said this brought tears to his eyes as he understands fear and that ever since he and Crowley have been really good friends.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18292460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18292460", "title": "Hush money", "text": "Hush money\n\nHush money is a slang term for a form of bribery in which one person or party offers another an attractive sum of money or other enticement, in exchange for remaining silent about some illegal, stigmatic, or shameful behavior, action, or other fact about the person or party who has made the offer.\n\nAlternatively it can be money paid to placate a disgruntled adversary who may disclose embarrassing information, even if untrue. This is to save the intended person the harm and hassle of dealing with defamation.\n\nThe person or party who presents the hush money may be attempting to avoid criminal prosecution, a lawsuit (as sometimes in the case of an out-of-court settlement), a leak of information to the news media, or silence about a stigmatic issue within one's own community. The information being covered up may include illegal activity, such as drug dealing, or some personal secret, such as an extramarital affair. In some cases, a government agency may be involved in the offer of hush money in order to protect the agency's employees, politicians and their appointees, or a national government in its standing among other nations in the world. It is usually given under the table.\n\nHush money can refer to money paid for an agreement of confidentiality, which can be breached under court order. It can also refer to an agreement to say a thing didn't happen that did happen, even in court testimony. The latter type of agreement can be a criminal act itself as an obstruction of justice.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary traces published use of the term to Sir Richard Steele in 1709.\n\n"}
{"id": "31314830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31314830", "title": "Japanese reaction to Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster", "text": "Japanese reaction to Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster\n\nThe Japanese reaction occurred after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. A nuclear emergency was declared by the government of Japan on 11 March. Later Prime Minister Naoto Kan issued instructions that people within a zone around the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant must leave, and urged that those living between 20 km and 30 km from the site to stay indoors. The latter groups were also urged to evacuate on 25 March.\n\nJapanese authorities admitted that lax standards and poor oversight contributed to the nuclear disaster. The government came under fire for their handling of the emergency, including the slow release of data on areas which were likely to be exposed to the radioactive plume from the reactor, as well as the severity of the disaster. The accident is the second biggest nuclear accident after the Chernobyl disaster, but is more complicated as three reactors suffered at least partial meltdowns.\n\nOnce a proponent of building more reactors, Prime Minister Naoto Kan took an increasingly anti-nuclear stance in the months following the Fukushima disaster. In May, he ordered the aging Hamaoka Nuclear Power Plant be closed over earthquake and tsunami fears, and said he would freeze plans to build new reactors. In July 2011, Mr. Kan said that \"Japan should reduce and eventually eliminate its dependence on nuclear energy ... saying that the Fukushima accident had demonstrated the dangers of the technology\". In August 2011, the Japanese Government passed a bill to subsidize electricity from renewable energy sources. An energy white paper, approved by the Japanese Cabinet in October 2011, says \"public confidence in safety of nuclear power was greatly damaged\" by the Fukushima disaster, and calls for a reduction in the nation’s reliance on nuclear power.\n\nPrime Minister Kan visited the plant for a briefing on 12 March. He had been quoted in the press calling for calm and minimizing exaggerated reports of danger. Kan met with Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) on 15 March and lamented the lack of information. According to press accounts, he asked, \"What the hell is going on?\" Secretary of Government Yukio Edano stated around 18 March, \"We could have moved a little quicker in assessing the situation.\"\n\nThe Japanese government asked the United States to provide cooling equipment to the plant. As of 15 March, the U.S. had provided of \"special equipment\", a fire truck, to help monitor and assess the situation at the plant.\n\nThe French nuclear accident response organization Groupe INTRA shipped some of its radiation-hardened mobile robot equipment to Japan to help with the nuclear accident. At least 130 tonnes of equipment has been shipped to Japan.\n\nJapan requested that Russia send the Landysh, a floating water decontamination facility originally built with Japanese funding and intended for decommissioning nuclear submarines.\n\nFormer chiefs of key nuclear safety commissions and government agencies have apologized for overlooking important nuclear safety concerns.\n\nThe Japanese government has admitted it failed to keep records of key meetings during the Fukushima nuclear crisis. Such detailed notes are considered a key component of disaster management.\n\nAfter the declaration of a nuclear emergency by the Government at 19:03 on 11 March, the Fukushima prefecture ordered the evacuation of an estimated 1,864 people within a distance of 20 km from the plant. This was extended to and 5,800 people at 21:23 by a directive to the local governor from the Prime Minister, together with instructions for residents within of the plant to stay indoors. The evacuation was expanded to a radius at 5:44 on 12 March, and then to at 18:25, shortly before ordering use of seawater for emergency cooling.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported at 17:35 JST on 12 March that NHK advised residents of the Fukushima area \"to stay inside, close doors and windows and turn off air conditioning. They were also advised to cover their mouths with masks, towels or handkerchiefs\" as well as not to drink tap water. Air traffic has been restricted in a radius around the plant, according to a NOTAM. The BBC has reported as of 22:49 JST (13:49 GMT) \"A team from the National Institute of Radiological Sciences has been dispatched to Fukushima as a precaution, reports NHK. It was reportedly made up of doctors, nurses and other individuals with expertise in dealing with radiation exposure, and had been taken by helicopter to a base 5 km from the nuclear plant.\"\n\nOver 50,000 people were evacuated during 12 March. The figure increased to 170,000–200,000 people on 13 March, after officials voiced the possibility of a meltdown.\n\nOn the morning of 15 March, the evacuation area was again extended. Prime Minister Naoto Kan issued instructions that any remaining people within a zone around the plant must leave, and urged that those living between 20 km and 30 km from the site should stay indoors. A 30 km no-fly zone has been introduced around the plant.\n\nOn 16 March, the U.S. Embassy advised Americans in Japan to leave areas within \"approximately 50 miles\" () from the plant. Gregory Jaczko, the chairman of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said before the United States Congress, believing the Japanese government was not telling the full story, \"We would recommend an evacuation to a much larger radius than has currently been provided by Japan.\" Spain advised to leave an area of 120 km, Germany advised to leave even the metropolitan area of Tokyo, and South Korea advised to leave farther than 80 km and plans to evacuate by all possible means. Travel to Japan was very low, but additional flights were chartered to evacuate foreigners. Official evacuation of Japan was started by several nations. The US military expected to voluntarily evacuate over 7000 family dependents from Japan, and moved ships under repair away from Japanese ports.\n\nOf 90 bedridden patients moved from a hospital in the town of Futaba-machi, a sample of three patients were tested and shown to have been exposed to radiation. The patients had been waiting outdoors for rescuers before being moved by helicopter at the time an explosion happened. On 25 March, residents in the 30 kilometer circle were urged to leave their houses as well.\n\nOn 30 March the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) discovered 20 MBq/m of Iodine-131 samples taken from 18 to 26 March in Iitate, Fukushima, 40 km northwest of the Fukushima I reactor. The IAEA recommended expanding the evacuation area, based on its criteria of 10 MBq/m. Japanese Secretary Yukio Edano stated the government would wait to see if the high radiation continued. On 31 March the IAEA announced a new value of 7 MBq/m, in samples taken from 19 to 29 March in Iitate. The material decays at 8% to 9% each day.\n\nOn 11 April, with ongoing concerns about the stability of the reactors, Japan considered extending the evacuation zone around the Fukushima I. Then, on 21 April 2011, the Japanese government declared a 20-km zone around Daiichi as a \"no-go\" zone, and threatened anyone who entered or remained in the zone with arrest or detention and fines. The order affected 80,000 residents. Shortly thereafter, on 22 April, the Japanese government officially announced that the evacuation zone would be extended from the 20 km \"circular\" zone to an irregular zone extending northwest of the Fukushima site. Then, on 16 May, the Japanese government began evacuating people from outside the official exclusion zones, including the village of Iitate, where high levels of radiation had been repeatedly measured.\n\nEvacuees from the radiation zone have reported that some evacuation shelters, including ones run by the city of Tsukuba, Ibaraki, have refused to allow them entrance to their facilities, claiming that the evacuees could be carrying radioactive contamination with them. The shelters have required the evacuees to present certificates obtained by the government of Fukushima prefecture stating that the evacuees are \"radiation free\".\n\nAs of September 2011, more than 100,000 Fukushima Prefecture residents are still subject to a range of evacuation measures, forcing them to live outside their home cities and towns. Some locations near the crippled nuclear power plant are estimated to be contaminated with accumulated radiation doses of more than 500 millisieverts a year, diminishing residents' hopes of returning home anytime soon. Even areas away from the nuclear plant are still suffering from a sharp decline in tourism and sluggish financial conditions.\n\nAs of 23 February 2012, 62,674 Fukushima residents had evacuated from the prefecture.\n\nIn 2012, ex-prime minister Naoto Kan was interviewed about the Fukushima nuclear disaster, and has said that at one point Japan faced a situation where there was a chance that people might not be able to live in the capital zone including Tokyo and would have to evacuate. He says he is haunted by the specter of an even bigger nuclear crisis forcing tens of millions of people to flee Tokyo and threatening the nation's existence. \"If things had reached that level, not only would the public have had to face hardships but Japan's very existence would have been in peril\". That convinced Kan to \"declare the need for Japan to end its reliance on atomic power and promote renewable sources of energy such as solar that have long taken a back seat in the resource-poor country's energy mix\". Government Officials revealed in interviews that they were grappling the possibility of a \"demonic chain reaction\": If Fukushima collapsed and released enough radiation, it was \"possible that other nearby nuclear power plants would have to be abandoned and could also collapse, thereby necessitating the evacuation of one of the world’s largest cities\".\n\nIn Japan, during each fiscal year, a prefecture that has nuclear power stations in its territory is legally bound to hold nuclear accident disaster drills, demonstrating how to evacuate the population out of the 10-kilometer evacuation zone according to the governmental anti-disaster guidelines. The Fukishima Daiichi accidents proved this 10-kilometer zone to be an underestimation of the evacuation zones that would actually be needed to protect the population of the prefecture from escaping radiation in a proper way. On 5 September 2011, three prefectures—Aomori, Fukushima and Ibaraki—were unable to hold the drills before March 2012. Six prefectures, including Hokkaido and Fukui, had not taken a decision to hold a drill and were awaiting new governmental guidelines on how far to evacuate. Four other prefectures, including Ehime and Saga, planned to hold drills by establishing temporary guidelines and by expanding evacuation zones on their own. The Nuclear Safety Commission aimed to review the evacuation zones and other policies by the end of October.\n\nOn 20 October 2011, the Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan published its views on the evacuation zones around nuclear plants in case of accidents. Instead of the 10-kilometer evacuation-zone previously thought to be sufficient to protect inhabitants, a circle of 30 kilometer was proposed as Urgent Protective Action Planning Zones, or UPZ. This definition was in line with the emergency response requirements proposed by the International Atomic Energy Agency. This draft plan included the designation of areas within 5 kilometers of plants as precautionary action zones, where residents would immediately evacuate in the event of an accident. Residents within a radius of about 50 kilometers would be prepared to take immediately action to prevent internal exposure to their thyroid glands by taking iodine tablets. Further studies were planned with experts and municipalities. Implementation of this plan would mean a major review of all anti-nuclear disaster programs by local governments, and it would increase the number of municipalities involved up to around 130, about three times more than the present figure.\n\nExperts on the ground in Japan agree that mental health challenges are the most significant issue. Stress, such as that caused by relocation and uncertainty and concern about unseen toxicants, often manifests in physical ailments, such as heart disease. So even if radiation risks are low, people are still concerned and worried. Behavioral changes can follow, including poor dietary choices, lack of exercise and sleep deprivation, all of which can have long-term negative health consequences. People who lost their homes, villages and family members, and even just those who survived the quake, will likely continue to face mental health challenges and the physical ailments that come with stress. Much of the damage was really the psychological stress of not knowing and of being relocated, according to U.C. Berkeley adjunct professor Thomas E. McKone.\n\nNuclear meltdowns at three of Fukushima Daiichi’s six reactors went officially unacknowledged for months:\n\nIn one of the most damning admissions, nuclear regulators said in early June that inspectors had found tellurium 132, which experts call telltale evidence of reactor meltdowns, a day after the tsunami — but did not tell the public for nearly three months. For months after the disaster, the government flip-flopped on the level of radiation permissible on school grounds, causing continuing confusion and anguish about the safety of schoolchildren here in Fukushima.\nAt 12:33 JST on 13 March the Chief Cabinet Secretary, Yukio Edano, was reported to have confirmed that there was a \"significant chance\" that radioactive fuel rods had partially melted in Unit 3 and Unit 1, or that \"it was 'highly possible' a partial meltdown was underway\". \"I am trying to be careful with words... This is not a situation where the whole core suffers a meltdown\". Soon after, Edano denied that a meltdown was in progress. He claimed that the radioactive fuel rods had not partially melted and he emphasized that there was no danger to the health of the population. Edano later said that there were signs that the fuel rods were melting in all three reactors. \"Although we cannot directly check it, it's highly likely happening\".\n\nIn April 2011 the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission said that some of the core of a stricken Japanese reactor had probably leaked from its steel pressure vessel into the bottom of the containment structure, implying that the reactor damage was worse than previously thought. If molten fuel has \"left the reactor’s pressure vessel and reached the drywell in substantial quantities, it raises the possibility that the fuel could escape the larger containment structure, leading to a large-scale radioactive release\".\n\nAccording to the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan, \"by April 27 approximately 55 percent of the fuel in reactor unit 1 had melted, along with 35 percent of the fuel in unit 2, and 30 percent of the fuel in unit 3; and overheated spent fuels in the storage pools of units 3 and 4 probably were also damaged\". The accident has surpassed the 1979 Three Mile Island accident in seriousness, and is comparable to the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. \"The Economist\" reports that the Fukushima disaster is \"a bit like three Three Mile Islands in a row, with added damage in the spent-fuel stores\", and that there will be ongoing impacts:\n\nYears of clean-up will drag into decades. A permanent exclusion zone could end up stretching beyond the plant’s perimeter. Seriously exposed workers may be at increased risk of cancers for the rest of their lives...\n\nOn March 24, 2011, Japanese officials announced that \"radioactive iodine-131 exceeding safety limits for infants had been detected at 18 water-purification plants in Tokyo and five other prefectures\". Officials said also that the fallout from the Dai-ichi plant is \"hindering search efforts for victims from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami\".\n\nA report from the Japanese Government to the IAEA says the \"nuclear fuel in three reactors probably melted through the inner containment vessels, not just the core\". The report says the \"inadequate\" basic reactor design — the Mark-1 model developed by General Electric — included \"the venting system for the containment vessels and the location of spent fuel cooling pools high in the buildings, which resulted in leaks of radioactive water that hampered repair work\".\n\nAs of July 2011, the Japanese government has been unable to control the spread of radioactive material into the nation’s food, and \"Japanese agricultural officials say meat from more than 500 cattle that were likely to have been contaminated with radioactive cesium has made its way to supermarkets and restaurants across Japan\". Radioactive material has also been detected in a range of other produce, including spinach, tea leaves, milk, and fish, up to 200 miles from the nuclear plant. Inside the 12-mile evacuation zone around the plant, all farming has been abandoned.\n\nAs of August 2011, the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant is still leaking low levels of radioactive material and areas surrounding it could remain uninhabitable for decades due to high radiation. It could take \"more than 20 years before residents could safely return to areas with current radiation readings of 200 millisieverts per year, and a decade for areas at 100 millisieverts per year\".\n\nSix months after the beginning of the Fukushima crisis, Mycle Schneider says the situation remains desperate:\n\n...the technical situation at the Fukushima Daiichi plant is everything but stable. Families and farmers in the region remain desperate. Evacuated families had to leave their pets starving and don't know if they ever can go back to their homes. Farmers had to kill their cattle and destroy their harvests. Some finished by killing themselves. A French independent radioactivity-measuring lab announced recently that it identified up to 700,000 becquerel of cesium per square meter on grass in a primary school in Fukushima City, over 60 kilometers from the Daiichi plant.\nIn the non-evacuated areas, the exposure limit for schoolyards was raised to 20 millisieverts per year. This non-negligible value (less than the 50 millisieverts yearly limit for nuclear workers in many countries) led to a large public reaction, including the resignation of Toshiso Kosako, special adviser on nuclear matters to the Japanese Government. The government then had to \"flip-flop\" on the issue of radiation standards in schools, causing \"continuing confusion and anguish about the safety of schoolchildren in Fukushima\".\n\nBecause of radiation concerns, tens of thousands of children are being kept inside school buildings during the hot summer, where some wear masks even though the windows are kept shut. They are banned from their own school playgrounds, unable to play in local parks and kept inside by their parents. Workers are removing the surface soil from schoolyards contaminated with radioactive particles from the nuclear plant, despite often having nowhere to dump the soil, except in holes dug in the same grounds.\n\nThe results of a scientific survey conducted in March show that about 45 percent of 1,080 children in three Fukushima communities tested positive for thyroid exposure to radiation. The government has said that the levels were too low to warrant further examination.\n\nAs of September 2011, a total of 16 elementary and junior high schools in Fukushima communities remained closed.\n\nIn October 2011, radiation levels as high as those in the evacuation zone around Japan's Fukushima nuclear plant have been detected in a Tokyo suburb. Japanese officials said the contamination was linked to the Fukushima nuclear disaster. Contaminations levels \"as high as those inside Fukushima's no-go zone have been detected, with officials speculating that the hotspot was created after radioactive caesium carried in rain water became concentrated because of a broken gutter\".\n\nIn October 2011 the Japanese ministry of Science launched a telephone hotline to deal with public concerns about radiation exposure in areas outside Fukushima Prefecture. Concerned Japanese citizens had taken up a new hobby: walking with Geiger-counters through their city or village in search for all places with raised radiation levels. Whenever a site was found with a radiation dose at one meter above the ground more than one microsievert per hour and higher than nearby areas, this should be mentioned at the hotline. One microsievert per hour is the limit above this topsoil at school playgrounds would be removed, subsidized by the state of Japan. Local governments were asked to carry out simple decontamination works, such as clearing mud from ditches if necessary. When radiation levels would remain more than one microsievert higher than nearby areas even after the cleaning, the ministry offered to help with further decontamination. On the website of the ministry a guideline was posted on how to measure radiation levels in a proper way, how to hold the dosimeter and how long to wait for a proper reading.\n\nThere has been considerable criticism to the way the plant operator TEPCO has handled the crisis. Kuni Yogo, a former atomic energy policy planner in Japan’s Science and Technology Agency and Akira Omoto, a former Tepco executive and a member of the Japanese Atomic Energy Commission both questioned Tepco's management's decisions in the crisis. Reports in the Yomiuri Shimbun portray Prime Minister Naoto Kan repeatedly ordering TEPCO to take actions such as opening steam valves with little response from the utility.\n\nOn 1 April 2011, \"ABC News\" reported that the plant's operators were \"woefully unprepared for the scale of the disaster\". Water is still being poured into the damaged reactors to cool melting fuel rods. John Price, a former member of the Safety Policy Unit at the UK's National Nuclear Corporation, has said that it \"might be 100 years before melting fuel rods can be safely removed from Japan's Fukushima nuclear plant\".\n\nThree weeks after the beginning of the disaster in Fukushima, \"Spiegel Online\" reported how \"helpless and casual\" TEPCO has been in its improvised efforts to cope with the accident. The company hasn't put forward a strategy to regain control over the situation in the reactors. Helmut Hirsch, a German physicist and nuclear expert, says \"they are improvising with tools that were not intended for this type of situation\". There are roughly 400 workers onsite risking their lives to prevent the situation from deteriorating even further, who sleep in a building on the plant grounds. Each man has been given a blanket and they lie on the floor in hallways, in stairwells and even in front of the clogged toilets.\n\nTEPCO could face 2 trillion yen ($23.6 bln) in special losses in the current business year to March 2012 to compensate communities near its crippled Fukushima I nuclear plant, according to JPMorgan Chase. As of June 2011, TEPCOs stock has \"slumped 91 percent, erasing 3.2 trillion yen ($40 billion) in market value\".\n\nJapan plans to put TEPCO under effective state control so it can meet its compensation payments to people affected by radiation from its Fukushima I plant. Tokyo will set aside several trillion yen in public funds that TEPCO can \"dip into if it runs short for payouts to people affected\".\n\nStarting at 22 March 2011 TEPCO compiled a radiation map of the surroundings of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. At 150 spots around the buildings the radiation was monitored. This map, the governmental data provided by SPEEDI (System for Prediction of Environmental Emergency Dose Information) and the data of the Japan Meteorological Agency's were shared – the same day – to the United States and other international institutes. On 23 March, a day later, NISA was informed. Almost every day TEPCO officials and NRC staffers continued to share updated versions of the map by e-mail. The information was kept secret for the Japanese public until 24 April 2011, only after the media reported details of the map on 23 April 2011, a day earlier.\n\nDue to frustration with TEPCO and the Japanese government \"providing differing, confusing, and at times contradictory, information on critical health issues\" a citizen's group called \"Safecast\" recorded detailed radiation level data in Japan using off-the-shelf Geiger counter equipment.\n\nWednesday 19 February 2014 late in the evening a leakage was found near a storage tank with radioactive water. The water contained 230.000.000 bq/l. The water did flow over the barrier around the tank, into the grounds around it. TEPCO estimated that some 100 metric tons were lost. After the waterflow into the tank was cut off, the leakage stopped, According to TEPCO nothing was flown into the ocean nearby. Further investigations were done after the cause of the leakage. A valve was opened by error, this caused an inflow of water to the tank. Around 2 p.m. on 19 Feb. an alarm went off, indicating that the tank was dangerously filled. This alarm was ignored, because no radioactive water was transferred to the tank. The tank, however, got overfilled, and the radioactive access water left the tank along the rain-gutter. Because all rainwater is directed outside the barriers around the tanks, the overflowing radioactive water seeped directly into the grounds. According to TEPCO all leakage was due to human error. The patrols were doubled to twice a day, and the number of workers involved was increased 6 times to 60 people. Because the leak was about 700 meters from the coastal line, TEPCO did believe that none of this water had reached the ocean.\n\nOn 21 February 2014 Hideka Morimoto, deputy secretary-general of the NRA, said during a news conference, that the recurring problems and the recent discovery of the 100-ton loss of highly tainted water on the Fukushima No.1 plant had raised questions at the NRA, whether TEPCO as a firm was competent enough to solve all difficulties at the plant. According to him, quote : \"This will generate controversy over TEPCO's safety culture and its ability to cope as a business operator\".\n\nOn 14 March, the first full business day after the accident, Japan's Nikkei 225 stock index fell 6%, followed up by another 11% drop on 15 March after the government warned of elevated radiation risks. Likewise, plant owner TEPCO's shares fell 62% in the four days following the accident, then started a 14% recovery. However, by 29 March, TEPCO shares had fallen further, reaching a 34-year low.\n\nThere have been blackouts throughout Tokyo and eight other prefectures. These blackouts have depressed economic output and made it harder for the economy to recover from the earthquake. Due to a combination of lack of electricity and panic, Japanese car makers closed down factories, and airlines cancelled flights to Japan.\n\nThe Japanese National Strategy Minister suggested nationalizing TEPCO on 28 March; in response Secretary Edano denied that approach was being considered. On 13 April, the government considered a plan to limit TEPCO's liability to approximately 3.8 trillion yen (US$45 billion).\n\nSome foreign firms (including SAP, Dow Chemical, IKEA, BNP Paribas, and H&M) have moved staff from Tokyo westward to Osaka or to other countries, as did some Tokyo embassies (including those of Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Denmark) move to Osaka. Some airlines (KLM, Air France, Lufthansa and Alitalia) changed destinations from Tokyo's Narita airport to Kansai airport in western Japan for some period afterward.\n\nAt an annual food safety exhibition in Tokyo held on 26 to 28 October 2011, machines were shown that could measure radiation: on conveyor belts food and other objects could be proofed by a radiation sensor, and the outcome could be read within 12 seconds. In this way a large number of objects could be checked in a very short time. Despite the huge price: 56,000 dollars, farmers, beef processors and restaurant chains showed great interest. Smaller devices to check food for radioactivity were shown, testing food placed in beakers. These could be used by smaller firms or even in households. The lowest cost of these small machines was still around 9,000 dollars.\n\nBecause of public concerns about radioactive contamination of food, Aeon, a Japanese supermarket chain, decided to publish the results of voluntary radiation tests performed on food of Japanese origin in their stores. The information was available on the website, and on posters in stores. Fish, vegetables, rice, beef and more were controlled by the shops since March 2011. All products with 50 becquerels per kilogram, one-tenth of the government's provisional limit, were rejected and not offered in stores. In the first week of November 2011 radioactive cesium was found in Pacific cod and rice from Fukushima, in tuna from Miyagi, and in bonito from Iwate. The customers were offered a list of all contaminated food that was found, its radioactivity levels and production areas.\n\nThere have been many anti-nuclear protests in Japan during 2011. On 27 March at least 1000 people attended the monthly demonstration of the Japan Congress Against Atomic and Hydrogen Bombs in Tokyo after advertising on social network sites. Protesters have typically been polite and restrained, but the government is \"acutely aware that public anger against nuclear power is growing\", and that is forcing Japan's leaders to rethink the country's energy policies.\n\nOn March 26 two dozen Diet members signed a letter calling on the government to \"immediately get young children and pregnant women out of the 30-km danger zone around the heavily damaged Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant\". The statement also called for \"extending the current 20-km mandatory evacuation zone radically to avoid further exposure and discontinuing official declarations that there is no immediate harm to human health, charging they aren't properly transmitting to the public the dangers of possible long-term radiation harm\". The statement, drawn up by anti-nuclear groups, is to be delivered to Prime Minister Naoto Kan.\n\nAs of March 30 there was growing consensus that the severity of the Fukushima nuclear disaster had surpassed the Three Mile Island accident to become the world's second-worst nuclear accident. The early effects on Japanese public opinion and government policy were felt. NGOs and anti-nuclear groups gained credibility, including Greenpeace, which launched a study on the impact of the Fukushima crisis.\n\nOn March 31 an anti-nuclear activist attempted to drive into the radioactivity-leaking Fukushima I complex, and later crashed through a locked gate at the Fukushima II power plant.\n\nIn mid-April, 17,000 people protested at two demonstrations in Tokyo against nuclear power. One protester, Yohei Nakamura, said nuclear power is a serious problem and that anti-nuclear demonstrations were undercovered in the Japanese press because of the influence of the Tokyo Electric Power Co. He said that \"If the mass media shows anti-nuclear-power activities like demonstrations, they risk losing TEPCO as an advertiser.\"\n\nThree months after the Fukushima nuclear disaster, thousands of anti-nuclear protesters marched in Japan. Company workers, students, and parents with children rallied across Japan, \"venting their anger at the government's handling of the crisis, carrying flags bearing the words 'No Nukes!' and 'No More Fukushima'.\" The ongoing Fukushima crisis may spell the end of nuclear power in Japan, as \"citizen opposition grows and local authorities refuse permission to restart reactors that have undergone safety checks\". Local authorities are skeptical that sufficient safety measures have been taken and are reticent to give their permission – now required by law – to bring suspended nuclear reactors back online. More than 60,000 people in Japan marched in demonstrations in Tokyo, Osaka, Hiroshima and Fukushima on June 11, 2011.\n\nIn July 2011, Japanese mothers, many new to political activism, have started \"taking to the streets to urge the government to protect their children from radioactive material leaking from the crippled Fukushima No. 1 nuclear plant\". Using social networking media, such as Facebook and Twitter, they have \"organized antinuclear energy rallies nationwide attended by thousands of protesters\".\n\nIn July 2011, the Hidankyo, the group representing the 10,000 or so survivors of the atomic bombings in Japan, called for the first time for the elimination of civilian nuclear power. In its action plan for 2012, the group appealed for \"halting construction of new nuclear plants and the gradual phasing out of Japan’s 54 current reactors as energy alternatives are found\". Sumiteru Taniguchi, director of the Nagasaki Council of A-Bomb Sufferers, has linked the Fukushima disaster to the atomic bombings of Japan:\n\nNuclear power and mankind cannot coexist. We survivors of the atomic bomb have said this all along. And yet, the use of nuclear power was camouflaged as 'peaceful' and continued to progress. You never know when there's going to be a natural disaster. You can never say that there will never be a nuclear accident.\nIn August 2011, about 2,500 people including farmers and fishermen marched in Tokyo. They are suffering heavy losses following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, and called for prompt compensation from plant operator Tokyo Electric Power Co. and the government, chanting slogans such as \"TEPCO must pay compensation swiftly\".\n\nIn September 2011, anti-nuclear protesters, marching to the beat of drums, \"took to the streets of Tokyo and other cities to mark six months since the March earthquake and tsunami and vent their anger at the government's handling of the nuclear crisis set off by meltdowns at the Fukushima power plant\". An estimated 2,500 people marched past TEPCO headquarters, and created a human chain around the building of the Trade Ministry that oversees the power industry. Protesters called for a complete shutdown of Japanese nuclear power plants and demanded a shift in government policy toward alternative sources of energy. Among the protestors were four young men who started a 10-day hunger strike to bring about change in Japan's nuclear policy.\n\nTens of thousands of people marched in central Tokyo in September 2011, chanting \"Sayonara nuclear power\" and waving banners, to call on Japan's government to abandon atomic energy in the wake of the Fukushima nuclear disaster. Author Kenzaburō Ōe, who won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1994, and has campaigned for pacifist and anti-nuclear causes addressed the crowd. Musician Ryuichi Sakamoto, who composed the score to the movie \"The Last Emperor\" was also among the event's supporters.\n\nOn the anniversary of the 11 March earthquake and tsunami all over Japan protesters called for the abolishment of nuclear power, and the scrapping of nuclear reactors.\n\nOn 23 March 2011, ten days after the hydrogen explosions, the recommendations of the Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan to protect the people living near the exploded Fukushima reactors were put aside by the Japanese government. The proposed measures were based on the results provided by a computer program named SPEEDI (System for Prediction of Environmental Emergency Dose Information). This program was specially designed to predict the spread of radioactive materials after a nuclear accident. The proposed measurements included evacuations and administering iodine tablets to people to minimize their intake of radioactive iodine. However, the office of the Prime Minister decided that ten days after the explosions it was too late, and did not act on the proposals. These facts came to light in the first weeks of December 2011, when a government panel examined the details about the delay in utilizing the data produced by SPEEDI.\n\nPrime Minister Naoto Kan's ruling party suffered embarrassing losses in April local elections after the Japanese leader came under fire over the nuclear disaster, further weakening his influence and bolstering rivals who want him to quit once the crisis ends.\n\nFukushima Governor Yūhei Satō refused to meet former TEPCO president Masataka Shimizu on two occasions due to his anger at the utility's handling of the disaster. Shimizu later resigned.\n\nProblems in stabilizing the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant have hardened attitudes to nuclear power. As of June 2011, \"more than 80 percent of Japanese now say they are anti-nuclear and distrust government information on radiation\". The ongoing Fukushima crisis may spell the end of nuclear power in Japan, as \"citizen opposition grows and local authorities refuse permission to restart reactors that have undergone safety checks\". Local authorities are skeptical that sufficient safety measures have been taken and are reticent to give their permission – now required by law – to bring suspended nuclear reactors back online.\n\nPrime Minister Naoto Kan took an increasingly anti-nuclear stance in the months following the Fukushima disaster. In May, he ordered the aging Hamaoka Nuclear Power Plant be closed over earthquake and tsunami fears, and he said he would freeze plans to build new reactors. In July 2011, Kan said that \"Japan should reduce and eventually eliminate its dependence on nuclear energy in what would be a radical shift in the country’s energy policy, saying that the Fukushima accident had demonstrated the dangers of the technology\". Kan said Japan should abandon plans to build 14 new reactors by 2030. He wants to \"pass a bill to promote renewable energy and questioned whether private companies should be running atomic plants\".\n\nBenjamin K. Sovacool has said that, with the benefit of hindsight, the Fukushima disaster was entirely avoidable in that Japan could have chosen to exploit the country's extensive renewable energy base. The biggest positive result of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster could be renewed public support for the commercialization of renewable energy technologies. In August 2011, the Japanese Government passed a bill to subsidize electricity from renewable energy sources. The legislation will become effective on July 1, 2012, and require utilities to buy electricity generated by renewable sources including solar power, wind power and geothermal energy at above-market rates.\n\nIn March 2012, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda acknowledged that the government shared the blame for the Fukushima disaster, saying that officials had been blinded by a false belief in the country’s \"technological infallibility\", and were all too steeped in a \"safety myth\". Mr. Noda said \"Everybody must share the pain of responsibility\".\n\nThe special committee of the Japanese Lower House investigating the Fukushima disaster had requested to TEPCO to submit its procedural manuals for accidents by the end of the whole first week of September. But when the accident manuals were submitted to the Diet committee most of the contents was blacked out and heavily redacted. On 12 September 3 pages were presented, including a cover sheet, containing an index of actions to be taken in serious accidents. Most of the index was blacked out and TEPCO did collect the papers immediately after the meeting, explaining that this was restricted information with copyrights, that was not allowed to be made public. The special committee did ask the industry ministry to order the utility to resubmit the manuals in their original form, as required by law. NISA said it would consider what actions to take.\n\nAs of September 2011, there is a complex power struggle underway over the future of nuclear energy in Japan involving political, governmental, industry, and union groups. Despite the seriousness of the Fukushima crisis, Japan’s \"historical commitment to nuclear power – and a fuel cycle that includes reprocessing and breeder reactors – still has powerful supporters\".\n\nIn February 2012, an independent investigation into the accident by the Rebuild Japan Initiative Foundation said that \"In the darkest moments of last year’s nuclear accident, Japanese leaders did not know the actual extent of damage at the plant and secretly considered the possibility of evacuating Tokyo, even as they tried to play down the risks in public\".\n\nOn 6 October 2011 a government panel proposed to ease the legal restrictions for exposure to radiation in the contaminated areas with radioactive fallout, because in their opinion it would be extremely difficult to limit exposure below the legal limit of 1 millisievert per year. Instead the target should be set between 1 and 20 millisieverts in line with the recommendations by the International Commission for Radiological Protection. Targets should be lowered in steps as decontamination proceeded. Targets might differ by region and residents should have a voice in setting the targets.\n\nOn 11 October 2011 Tatsuya Murakami, the mayor of the village Tokai, said in a meeting with minister Goshi Hosono, that the Tokai Daini reactor, situated 110 kilometer from Tokio, should be decommissioned, because the plant was more than 30 years old and the people had lost confidence in the nuclear safety commission of the government.\n\nThe assembly of Fukushima Prefecture has adopted a motion that asks for the scrapping of all 10 nuclear reactors in the prefecture. The majority vote was on Thursday 20 October 2011, after the petition was submitted by a civic group in June. The petition urged the decommissioning of all reactors run by TEPCO in the prefecture—six at the Daiichi plant and four at the Daini plant. This was the first time in Japan that a prefecture hosting nuclear plants has voted to adopt such a petition. Although TEPCO was planning to decommission four reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, TEPCO still had detailed plans to exploit the remaining six reactors.\n\nIn his answer to TEPCO, after its request of 120 billion yen in government compensation, the minister of Industry Yukio Edano told TEPCO on 24 October 2011 to cut \"at least\" 2.5 trillion yen in its costs over the coming 10 years before TEPCO would receive any funds to help it to pay the compensations over the nuclear crisis at its Fukushima Daiichi power plant. This target was the outcome of a report from an independent commission that the Japanese government received on 3 October, in it their thoughts about how TEPCO's special business plan should be compiled as a precondition to receive financial aid from a state-backed body set up to help it meet its massive compensation obligations. Next to cost-cutting this special business plan would also include restructuring measurements. First plan would be an \"emergency\" plan, and the second plan should have a \"comprehensive\" character. This last plan should be completed in spring 2012.\n\nIn October 2011, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda said the government will spend at least 1 trillion yen ($13 billion) to clean up vast areas contaminated by radiation from the Fukushima nuclear disaster. Japan \"faces the prospect of removing and disposing 29 million cubic meters of soil from a sprawling area in Fukushima, located 240 kilometers (150 miles) northeast of Tokyo, and four nearby prefectures\".\n\nOn 28 October 2011, of the 55 nuclear reactors in Japan, 44 were taken off the grid, in most instances to undergo safety inspections. Stress-tests demanded by the Japanese government were performed at 18 reactors. Of the reactors still in operation, four more would be closed down before the end of 2011, and the rest would follow in the first months of 2012. Because the disaster had raised serious safety concerns among local authorities, and they were reluctant to give permission to restart, only two reactors were eventually restarted, both at the Ohi facility. On September 14, 2013, those reactors were shut down, leaving all 50 Japanese commercial nuclear reactors closed.\n\nAn energy white paper, approved by the Japanese Cabinet in October 2011, says \"public confidence in safety of nuclear power was greatly damaged\" by the Fukushima disaster, and calls for a reduction in the nation’s reliance on nuclear power. It also omits a section on nuclear power expansion that was in last year's policy review.\n\nOn 30 October 2011 the Japanese government took up the plan to increase the 30 members of the staff at the Japanese embassy in Kiev, Ukraine to 36. For the first time two nuclear experts and three interpreters will be stationed here. In order to learn from the experience of this country with the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear catastrophe. In this way Japan hoped to build on good relations between the two countries, also because growing numbers of Japanese officials were visiting Ukraine at that moment. The new staff was expected to gather information about handling a no-go zone, the removal of radioactive materials, and how to deal with internal exposure to radiation. People affected by the Chernobyl disaster would also be questioned. The embassy was equipped with dosimeters and protection outfits for field studies. The extra costs of the additional embassy staff was estimated at 200 million yen.\n\nLong one of the world’s most committed promoters of civilian nuclear power, the trauma of the Fukushima disaster has changed attitudes in Japan. Political and energy experts describe \"nothing short of a nationwide loss of faith, not only in Japan's once-vaunted nuclear technology but also in the government, which many blame for allowing the accident to happen\".\n\nAccording to \"The Japan Times\", the Fukushima nuclear disaster changed the national debate over energy policy almost overnight. \"By shattering the government's long-pitched safety myth about nuclear power, the crisis dramatically raised public awareness about energy use and sparked strong anti-nuclear sentiment\". A June 2011 Asahi Shimbun poll of 1,980 respondents found that 74 percent answered \"yes\" to whether Japan should gradually decommission all 54 reactors and become nuclear free.\n\nOn 6 January 2012 the Japanese government proposed a maximum lifespan for nuclear reactors of 40 years. This was one of many proposals that nuclear crisis minister Goshi Hosono announced to review the nuclear safety regulations for nuclear reactors and nuclear fuel material. This was the first time that the Japanese government had tried to regulate the lifespan of nuclear power plants. When safety and maintenance of the plant meet regulatory guidelines, the operator could request for an extension. Safety standards against earthquakes, tsunamis and other disasters would be revised with the new knowledge and technology in protective measures. Power companies were to comply with the new standards. Approval of the new law by the parliament was scheduled not before the end of January 2012, but ahead of the installation of the new nuclear safety agency in April 2012.\n\nOn 26 February 2012 a meeting with Goshi Hosono, minister of Environment, and Tatsuo Hirano, minister in charge of reconstruction, and the mayors of eight cities and villages near the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant was cancelled. Three mayors boycotted the meeting in a protest, because the government had already informed the media about the meeting's agenda prior to informing them. Katsutaka Idogawa, the mayor of Futaba, told a press conference, \"I strongly mistrust the government... So I have made a momentous decision not to attend the meeting\" The mayors of the towns of Hirono and Namie also refused to go. This meeting was intended to discuss how to get rid of the radioactive material emitted by the plant and find a place for temporary facilities to store contaminated soil. The meeting was cancelled, instead Hosono and Hirano had an informal discussion with the five remaining municipal leaders.\n\nTo overcome public fears over contaminated food, Japan planned to supply food aid to the U.N. World Food Program. On 16 March 2011 the agreement was signed. Food products from disaster-hit eastern Japan would be used as overseas aid, in an attempt to lower the fears of radioactive contamination. For this a supplementary budget of 1 billion yen for the year 2011 was made available. Canned fish products produced in the prefectures Aomori, Iwate, Ibaraki and Chiba, certified and controlled for radioactive contamination – would be sent to Cambodia and developing countries, to be used to feed schoolchildren. With this Japan planned to subsidize the fishing industry in the disaster-hit region, and hoped to revive the export of their products.\n\nOn 28 March 2012 mayor Toshitsuna Watanabe of the town Okuma said during a meeting of the municipal assembly held at its temporary town office in Aizuwakamatsu that he will ask the whole town to be designated as no-go area, where it is unlikely that residents will be able to return in any foreseeable future, because he did not want the community of the town divided. Likewise the town Futaba considered refusing any re-designation of the evacuation zones in the town.\n\nThe five television stations licensed to the cities of Fukushima and Koriyama (NHK Fukushima, FCT, KFB, TV-U Fukushima, and Fukushima Television) were originally scheduled to shut down their analog signals on 24 July 2011. However, a month prior to the scheduled date, the Japanese senate postponed the analog shutdown in Fukushima and the prefectures of Iwate and Miyagi to the north. Television stations in all three prefectures shut off their analog signals at noon on 31 March 2012.\n\nAt a meeting on 3 April 2012 in Futaba with Mayor Katsutaka Idogawa and Governor Yuhei Sato of Fukushima, minister Tatsuo Hirano of Reconstruction made a few personal remarks about the possibility that some places around the Fukushima nuclear power plant could be designated a no-return zone. One of the reasons he gave was the large number of storage tanks holding highly contaminated water that was used to cool the damaged reactors. As of May 30, 2013, \"a wide area around\" the Fukushima nuclear plant continues to show radiation contamination above 50 millisieverts, and that includes 96% of the town of Futaba where all of its 6,520 residents were evacuated.\n\nOn 1 April 2012 the evacuation orders for the villages Kawauchi and Tamura were lifted, on 15 April the people of Minamisoma were able to return to their homes. A ceremony was held for police and volunteers, who were to patrol the borders of the no-go areas. The checkpoints 20 kilometers from the reactors were moved to about 10 kilometers. Three new evacuation zones were planned by the government in areas within 11 villages and towns according to radiation levels. The small city of Minamisoma was divided into 3 zones, in the first people were free to go in and out, in the second access is limited, the third area all visiting is forbidden. Still scattered with ruins, and with no electricity and running water, the city was a rather uninhabitable place for a population formed by mostly elderly people. Schools and hospitals remained closed.\n\nOn 11 April 2012 a meeting was organised by the Japanese government to inform the people of Naraha, Fukushima about the wish to lift the evacuation order for the city of Naraha. Almost all territory of Naraha was situated within the 20 kilometer zone, and the people would be able to return to their former homes, because local maximum radiation doses would be 20 millisieverts per year. Deputy head of the Cabinet's Nuclear Emergency Response Headquarters Kensuke Tomita, who represented the government at the meeting, was overwhelmed by all the questions and angry remarks of the local people attending the meeting. At the end he promised that: \"TEPCO and the government will take responsibility for restoring local infrastructure, decontamination and (nuclear disaster) compensation.\" But at this moment the city government had given up the possibility for re-designation before March. On 16 April the governor of Fukushima Yuhei Sato said at the Nuclear Emergency Response Headquarters, that the people of Fukushima were frightened by all the problems with the nuclear plant, and persisted that the government would take control.\n\nOn 23 June 2013 during a meeting with evacuees from the Miyakoji district of Tamura, Fukushima Prefecture and central government officials, the announcement was made that the residents would be allowed to return to their homes in mid-August 2013, although the radiation levels in residential areas still ranged between 0.32 and 0.54 microsieverts per hour, much higher than the government's goal of 0.23 microsieverts per hour. However, decontamination efforts in the Miyakoji district were declared completed. When asked, the officials refused to prolong the decontamination efforts, arguing that exposure to radiation would differ for every person. The 0.23 microsievert per hour limit would lead to an accumulated radiation exposure exceeding 1 millisievert for people that would stay outdoors for eight hours a day. Instead the officials offered the evacuees a new type of dosimeter so that they could check their own radiation exposures, and in this way take responsibility for their own safety.\nAlthough billions of yen were spent in an effort to decontaminate some areas around the troubled nuclear plant, the effort was described as futile, and radioactive waste was not collected properly and disposed of, and sometimes dumped into rivers.\nTomohiko Hideta, an official of the Reconstruction Agency, said that it would be impossible to reach the official targets, and confirmed the offer of the dosimeters. However, spokesmen for the Japanese Ministry of Environment denied all, even when they were confronted with the existence of audio recordings of the meeting that proved otherwise.\n\nOn 4 November 2011 in the city of Hamamatsu, Goshi Hosono, minister in charge of the nuclear crisis, made a remark about plans to set up a study regarding the health consequences of radiation levels of about 20 millisieverts per year. Studies done after nuclear accidents in the past suggested that radiation levels of more than 100 millisieverts at once would have negative effects on human health, but negative effects from lower levels were never found. The Japanese government hoped to be able to accept 20 millisieverts per year as below the limit harmful to human health. This exposure limit is recommended by the International Commission for Radiological Protection. Concerning the government project of disposing of debris in areas outside northeastern Japan, Hosono said that rubble from Iwate and Miyagi was not radioactive, burning the rubble was harmless, and the ashes would be disposed of safely. Local governments would be asked for cooperation, with the national government ensuring safety and taking overall responsibility .\n\nOn 20 December the Ministry of Environment announced an extra program to monitor the impact of radiation exposure on children born to mothers in Fukushima Prefecture, to find links between the mothers' radiation exposure and congenital abnormalities, asthma, allergies or other diseases of their children. The checks would stop when the children reach the age of 13. No health effects of this nature are expected to rise as a result of the incident.\n\nOn 15 April 2012 the city of Namie, Fukushima asked the Japanese government for free healthcare for its residents. To monitor long-term health, the city would provide to all inhabitants health handbooks, in order to keep a thorough record of all health checks and thyroid examinations. The health books followed the structure of those used to monitor the health of the atomic bomb survivors in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. These \"hibakusha\" health books were free from medical fees, and Namie asked the government to set up a similar program for the people in Namie. Of the seven other cities around the nuclear plant, Futaba was also willing to take part in this program.\n\nIn April 2012 the government of the evacuated city of Namie bought a whole-body dosimeter. The device was installed in a temporary housing in Nihonmatsu, Fukushima, in order to monitor the internal radiation exposure and the health of the citizens of Namie. Some 50 people a day could be examined, a complete screening would take two minutes per person. Initial screenings of the whole population was planned to be finished at the end of the fiscal year 2012. In this way the government of Namie wanted to offer a long-term monitoring program to the population. Another reason for this was excessive exposure to radiation during the first days directly after the nuclear disaster in March 2011, when predictions from SPEEDI were ignored by the Fukushima Prefectural government.\n\nOn 5 June 2013 12 children were diagnosed with thyroid cancer, and 15 others were suspected of having the disease. Four members of the panel that accompanied the screening stepped down that day. Among the new members were Shuji Shimizu, professor at Fukushima University (involved with nuclear-related payouts) and Shinji Tokonami, professor at Hirosaki University, who had done the health screening in the town of Namie. In an attempt to regain public trust, after it became known that secret meetings were held to \"harmonize the opinions of the panel-members\". In addition the panel said that its goal had been changed from \"alleviating the anxiety of the residents\" to \"maintaining and promoting the health of prefectural residents into the future.\" Because this was the first large-scale survey in this field, comparisons could not made. The government of Fukushima Prefecture provided the results of the testing and a list of the patients to the panel, which it had previously refused to do in order to protect the privacy of the patients.\n\nOn the end of March 2012 a survey of Kyodo News revealed that fears for contamination with radioactive fallout 44 of 74 major towns in Japan were testing school lunches or food-components for radioactive cesium. In eastern Japan a majority of 34 out of 42 towns had started with these tests, after the government had ordered testing in 17 prefectures around the Fukushima-plant.\n\nIn other parts of Japan, testing was left free to decide whether to test school lunches. But\nalready 10 out of 32 towns had implemented similar tests, while at this date Morioka, Akita and four other towns had plans to start testing. Some cities did not test themselves, they relied on the safety of the food because pre-shipment tests conducted by producers.\n\nAlthough after 1 April 2012 the Japanese government lowered the legal standard for radioactive cesium-levels down to 100 becquerels/kg, some cities decided to lower the standard even further:\n\n\nOther towns like Fukushima, Matsuyama and the Bunkyo Ward school in Tokyo planned to demand for lower than legal levels.\n\nOn 8 November the Japanese government published the first results of nuclear safety tests at the website of NISA. This was done to boost transparency before laid-off reactors were restarted. The minister of industry Yukio Edano asked the public to respond with remarks and questions about the tests, and promised to respond to this all. He hoped, that this would lead to a better understanding of the nuclear safety procedures.\n\nNine months after the disaster of 11 March it proved increasingly difficult to dispose all the debris and rubble. In April 572 municipalities were willing to accept the debris, but in the latest survey done by the Ministry of Environment on 7 October only 54 municipalities in 11 prefectures were willing to consider acceptance, and only six places had already taken in parts of the debris. Fear for radioactive contamination was thought to be the cause for this. The ministry declined to identify the municipalities that have agreed, or refused, to accept the debris. Some 4.88 million tons of rubble were needed to be disposed of a year after the quake. Around 20.5 million tons was collected in Iwate and Miyagi, all was stored at multiple temporary storage sites. The debris from Fukushima would be stored within this prefecture. On 2 November 30 tons of debris was loaded on train, and sent to Tokyo by rail from the city of Miyako, Iwate. The first train carrying the debris would arrive in Tokyo on 4 November. This made Tokyo the first local government outside Japan's northeast to accept debris.\n\nOn 28 December at a meeting in the city of Fukushima minister Goshi Hosono asked the local leaders of prefecture Fukushima for permission to build an interim storage facility somewhere in the county of Futaba near the two villages hosting the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant.\n\nLocal residents, however, were seriously divided. Those who would like to return to their houses, were afraid, that an interim-storage might prove to be a very permanent storage, and would make any return impossible. But others had already accepted the fact, that the radiation-levels around their former houses would be too high, and would make living there impractical for a long time. Some local residents realized that without the interim storage facility, there would no place to dispose radioactive waste at all, and the construction of the facility would create also new jobs.\n\nLocal leaders were willing to accept the new waste-storage, but in the mean time they were reluctant, because the anger of some of their citizens and the fact that the presence of it, could hamper all efforts to decontaminate the area and would make repopulation impossible. Therefor they requested an insurance from the government, that the storage would be closed after 30 years.\n\nThe news of the contamination of foods with radioactive substances leaking from the Fukushima nuclear reactors damaged the mutual trust between local food producers including farmers and consumers. Everywhere in Japan banners and stickers were found with: \"Hang in there, Fukushima!\", numerous harmful rumors on Fukushima products could be found online. Many rumors that were discriminatory to Fukushima and other messages slandering Fukushima people could be found on the Internet. The source of cesium was found to be rice straw that had been feed to the animal. But a notice of the Japanese government that was sent to cattle-farmers after the nuclear accident made no mention to the possibility that rice straw could be contaminated with radioactive materials from the plant.\n\nMedia coverage of the event has been described as taking an \"irrational approach which generated the worst of humanity\" because many anti-nuclear groups tried to make political points out of the issue. In addition, the main story should have been on the 19,000 people killed by the tsunami and the thousands of missing individuals. However, public attention was drawn \"away\" from the needs of major restructuring, housing, developing the transportation system, and helping people who suffered because of the tsunami.\n\nDavid Spiegelhalter of Cambridge University explained that the psychological effects of the media coverage include increased feelings of risk and vulnerability. Others have warned of harmful psychological consequences of such coverage. Researchers from King’s College London’s Institute of Psychiatry and the Behavioural Science team at the Health Protection Agency (HPA) found that a third of people experienced high levels of anger, anxiety, and distress. The German media in particular, has been accused of scaremongering and misleading the public on the safety of nuclear power.\n\nIn August 2011 citizens of the prefecture Shiga, at the banks of Lake Biwa, started a lawsuit at the Otsu District Court, and asked a court order to prevent the restart of seven reactors operated by Kansai Electric Power Company, in the prefecture Fukui.\n\nOn 8 November 2011 a group of 40 citizens of Otsu prefecture Kyodo started a similar lawsuit at the Otsu District Court against Japan Atomic Power Company. They asked for a provisional court order to delay the restart of the two reactors at the Tsuruga Nuclear Power Plant in the city of Tsuruga. The plaintiffs argued that:\n\n\nThe operator of the plant did not want to make any comment to the press. At that time the two reactors of the plant were shut down for regular checkups. But the four-month inspection of the No. 2 reactor could be completed in December, and the checkup of reactor 1 could be completed in March 2012.\n\nOn 27 December 2011 a lawsuit was started against Kyūshū Electric Power Company by 290 local residents. Most of them living in the prefectures Saga and Fukuoka. They said that the disaster in Fukushima had made it clear, that an accident at the Genkai-plant caused by a possible earthquake or tsunami could damage the lives and health of the people living nearby. They questioned in particular the safety of the 36-year-old nr. 1 reactor near the sea. Kyushu Electric commented, that it would examine the suit and would act \"appropriately.\" This was already the third time that locals tried to stop this plant. Because in July 2011 90 people asked the local court for an injunction order to stop the nr. 2 and nr. 3 Genkai-reactors from going back online, like was done in August 2010 when about 130 local residents and others demanded from the district court to halt to the use of plutonium-uranium mixed oxide fuel, or MOX, at the No. 3 Genkai-reactor.\n\nIn January 2012 a lawsuit was filed against the Japanese government and Kyushu Electric Power Co. at the Saga District Court by about 1,700 people from all over Japan. The complaint mentioned that after the Fukushima disaster the safety myth regarding nuclear reactors was proven to be false, and under the Japanese Constitution everybody in Japan should live without fear. On 12 March 2012 the total of people complaining was already more than 3000, when 1370 people joined the plaintiffs. Another group was planning to file another suit to seek suspension of yet another nuclear power plant run by the same company. According to Akira Hasegawa, the leader of the plaintiffs and former president of Saga University it looked possible to him raising the number of plaintiffs to 10.000.\n\nOn 14 March 2012 two groups of citizens had taken up the plan to file criminal complaints against officials of TEPCO and governmental agencies for professional negligence in the Fukushima nuclear disaster. On 9 March in the town of Iwaki they had held a demonstration to mobilize at least 1000 people in the area of Fukushima to join in, because round 15 May the complaint would be filed at the office of the Fukushima District Public Prosecutors. In this complaint officials of the governmental Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan, NISA and TEPCO would be accused of criminal conduct and neglect resulting in the failure to prevent the nuclear crisis.\n\nAs a result, many people were exposed to radiation, patients dies because they needed to flee from their hospital, The group considered to accuse the officials of imposing health hazards through the spread of massive amounts of radioactive substances.\n\nThe 58-year-old member of the Iwaki municipal assembly and leader of the group, Kazuyoshi Sato said, he believed it was \"nonsense that nobody has been held criminally responsible for causing a major nuclear accident. I'd like to call on as many Fukushima people as possible, including those who are taking shelter in areas outside of the prefecture, to join our action.\"\n\nAccording to lawyer Yukuo Yasuda in the complaint TEPCO would be charged for not taking all necessary precautions against a possible tsunami, although studies had pointed out that there had been this kind of tsunamis in this region in the past. NISA and NSA were accused of neglect because they did not instruct TEPCO to implement the necessary measures.\n\nOn 22 May 2012 the 33-year-old Makoto Owada, a high-ranking gang-member of the Sumiyoshi-kai yakuza group was arrested. Workers supplied by a network of companies and subcontractors were forced to pay substantial portions of their earnings to the subcontracting companies and Owada. Investigators learned that already in 2007 Owada was dispatching workers at the nuclear power plant construction sites in various areas. According to the police, it was needed to cut off all gang-funding, to prevent the flow of tax-money to yakuza-gangs.\n\nOn 25 October 2011 the university of Hiroshima disclosed a plan to train the staff of the Japan Red Cross staff in how to respond to nuclear disasters like the one in Fukushima. The papers were to be signed on 26 October 2011. The president Toshimasa Asahara of the University said, he hoped that the university staff would also learn from the experience of the Red Cross in the care for disaster-disasters, including those in other countries. The University of Hiroshima University did establish a leading research center into the effects of radiation on the human body and health: the Research Institute for Radiation, Biology and Medicine, due to decades lasting studies after the effects on local population, that survived the atomic-explosion of Hiroshima in 1945.\n\nThe Fukushima accident exposed some troubling nuclear safety issues:\n\nDespite the resources poured into analyzing crustal movements and having expert committees determine earthquake risk, for instance, researchers never considered the possibility of a magnitude-9 earthquake followed by a massive tsunami. The failure of multiple safety features on nuclear power plants has raised questions about the nation's engineering prowess. Government flip-flopping on acceptable levels of radiation exposure confused the public, and health professionals provided little guidance. Facing a dearth of reliable information on radiation levels, citizens armed themselves with dosimeters, pooled data, and together produced radiological contamination maps far more detailed than anything the government or official scientific sources ever provided.\nUnder Japanese law the operator is liable for nuclear damage regardless of culpability except in cases of exceptionally grave natural disasters and insurrection. Government spokesman Edano said this exception would be \"impossible under current social circumstances\".\n\nReactor operation is prohibited unless the operator concludes a private contract of liability insurance as well as an indemnity agreement with the government for damage not covered by private insurance. An amount of coverage of 120 billion yen per installation is required. The Japan Atomic Energy Insurance Pool does not cover damage caused by earthquakes and tsunamis. If damage exceeds the amount of coverage, the government may give the operator the aid required to compensate the damage, if authorized by the Japanese Diet. On 13 April, the government considered a plan to limit TEPCO's liability to approximately 3.8 trillion yen (US$45 billion).\n\nOn 9 November 2011 the ministry of Finance reported that since the disaster in March 2011, due to rising energy costs, high oil-prices, and the need to replace the loss of nuclear power the current account surplus had fallen 21.4 percent to 20.4 billion dollars compared with the year 2010. A decline of seven months in-a-row. The trade balance had also fallen by 59 percent year-on-year to a surplus of about 4.8 billion dollars. The strong yen made the export of electronic components difficult. Through higher returns on overseas investments, however, the income account surplus rose 12.9 percent to nearly 18 billion dollars. Compared with 2010 the balance of international payments had shrunk 46.8 percent.\n\nEven though Japan saw a fall in manufacturing output for 2011, there was an increased use of fossil fuels for power generation, and this was the main driving force behind a rise in Japanese greenhouse gas emissions. Ministry of the Environment figures for 2011 show total greenhouse gas emissions of 1300 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent – 49 million tonnes more than in 2010 (a 3.9% increase).\n\nOn 29 March 2012 a prototype of a new camera was presented by Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) and the Japan Atomic Energy Agency (JAEA) for the detection of gamma radiation. Images were made with a wide angle lens, the amount of contamination was presented in six different colors, the highest concentrations were red, after this yellow, green and purple. The camera was tested in February on different locations in Fukushima, the very accurate images of the contamination had already proven it effectiveness in the decontamination effort.\n\nOn 21 October the president of TEPCO Toshio Nishizawa said that his company hoped to avoid capital injections from the Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund, a foundation of the Japanese government. TEPCO would need financial aid from this fund to be able to pay the huge compensation payments due to the nuclear disaster at its Fukushima nuclear power plants. At a press-conference in Tokyo Nishizawa made the following remarks:\n\n\"We would like to properly conduct compensation by receiving financial assistance, while also taking rationalization measures to turn around management and keep on going as a private company, I think it's the best option for all to avoid capital injection as much as possible.\"\n\nTEPCO might claim in October 2011 the sum of 120 billion yen of government compensation for the nuclear accident, this is the maximum amount set by a contract between the government and TEPCO. Compensation payments to people and companies that suffered damages through the crisis at that date already exceeded 150 billion yen. These compensation payments could rise up to 4.54 trillion yen (4,500,000,000,000 yen or around 59 billion US dollar) by March 2013, as was revealed by a report made by a commission of the Japanese government According to an estimate by a report compiled by a government panel, compensation payments could reach 4.54 trillion yen by March 2013. Special Government bonds, that carry no interest but could be cashed when necessary, would raise the money needed. The fund has also the right to make capital injections to TEPCO by subscribing shares. In close cooperation with this fund Tepco tried to seek financial backup for the future.\n\nAt January 2013 TEPCO announced, that it needed more money to be able to pay compensations to the victims. At that moment the cost were estimated at Y3.24 trillion ($38 billion), up Y697 billion since March 2012, when the last calculation was made. In October 2011, seven months after the disaster the first assumption had been Y1.1 trillion. Since then, TEPCO already received Y1.5 billion financial aid, but the cost tripled. Besides the compensation costs, TEPCO would need some Y10 trillion to dismantle the reactors and clean up the radioactive polluted areas.\n\nIn February 2012 new restitution standards were set by the Japanese government center for settling disputes over compensation for nuclear accidents for the ongoing Fukushima nuclear crisis:\n\nTEPCO was ordered to pay:\n\n\nTEPCO is also required to pay compensation for any damage caused by the nuclear disaster to properties in evacuation zones, even without on-site checks to confirm the properties' conditions.\n\nThe government of prefecture Fukushima was notified that in some areas the former residents would not be permitted to return, because there was no prospect that decontamination could be completed in any foreseeable future.\n\nSettling the claims filed by evacuees about compensation, proved to be very difficult. Because TEPCO did refuse to respond to victims' claims, that their residences and other properties were worthless after the crisis. From 900 claims filed less than 10 claims were settled at the end of February 2012, despite all efforts of more than 150 lawyers, mediators and inspectors.\n\nOn 26 October 2011 TEPCO revised its criteria in calculating the damage suffered by tourist businesses after the crisis. Initial calculations by TEPCO included a deduction of 20 percent of the calculated losses. In the first announcement on 21 September 2011 TEPCO said that this 20 percent was thought to be caused not by radiation fears, but through the impact of the earthquake and the tsunami that followed. The new criteria offered two options:\n\nIn September 2011, Tetsunari Iida launched the Japan Renewable Energy Foundation, which is backed by ¥1 billion (US$13 million) from Japan's richest man, Masayoshi Son. The foundation will bring together some 100 experts from around the world to analyse obstacles to implementing renewable energy, and offer policy recommendations to the new Japanese government.\n\n, Japan plans to build a pilot floating wind farm, with six 2-megawatt turbines, off the Fukushima coast. After the evaluation phase is complete in 2016, \"Japan plans to build as many as 80 floating wind turbines off Fukushima by 2020.\"\n\nThe drop in energy capacity as a result of the partial shutdown of nuclear power plants has prompted the Shinzō Abe-led government to revisit the use of coal for energy generation, primarily through the increased adoption of high energy, low emissions (HELE) power plants that employ coal pollution mitigation techniques. By 2015, the share of coal in Japan's power sector had risen to 31% from 23% prior to the Fukushima disaster, but is projected by the government to fall to 26% by 2030 as Japan's energy mix stabilizes.\n"}
{"id": "48450064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48450064", "title": "Karbi Youth Festival", "text": "Karbi Youth Festival\n\nKarbi Youth Festival is an annual festival celebrated by the Karbi People of Assam. It is celebrated on 15–19 February of every year in Taralangso, Diphu, Karbi Anglong District. It is locally called Riso-Nimso Rong Arje.\n"}
{"id": "52317187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52317187", "title": "Ken M", "text": "Ken M\n\nKenneth McCarthy (born c. 1980), popularly known as Ken M, is an Internet troll known for his comments on news websites such as Yahoo! and \"The Huffington Post\". Unlike the more common associations for the term \"troll\" on the internet, Ken's comments are usually benign, with his comments displaying a complete lack of understanding of the featured topic, while other commenters take him seriously.\n\nKen M worked as a copywriter for Comedy Central and a columnist for College Humor and started posting to comments sections as Ken M in 2011 on various websites, mostly Yahoo! and \"The Huffington Post\". He has said that his aim was to \"turn a toxic space into a source of belly laughter.\" His absurd comments over the years made him widely considered one of the most prolific Internet trolls ever, gaining thousands of fans on Facebook, Twitter, his subreddit, and Tumblr where he posts screenshots of all his comments as \"HorseySurprise\". Ken M was named one of the most influential people on the Internet by \"Time\" in 2016 and 'The Rembrandt of Yahoo Comment Trolling' by Uproxx.\n"}
{"id": "58008359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58008359", "title": "Klondike Fire", "text": "Klondike Fire\n\nThe Klondike Fire is an ongoing wildfire in the U.S. state of Oregon. The fire had burned more than and was 51% contained as of September 9th, 2018. InciWeb predicts it may take until October 31, 2018 to fully contain the fire. Part of the fire has merged with the nearby Taylor Creek Fire, which as of September 8th, 2018 had burned and was 95% contained.\n"}
{"id": "1943059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943059", "title": "Kunicon", "text": "Kunicon\n\nKunicon was a series of anime conventions organized by Subarashii Nation (formerly D20, Inc.) and held throughout the United States from December 2004 through June 2005. Originally named \"Otakucon\", the convention was renamed to \"Kunicon\" after controversy erupted over the name being similar to Otakon, an anime convention held in Baltimore, Maryland. While Kunicon's original goal was to hold a convention in twelve major cities across the United States, these plans were cut short after 4 conventions as Kunicon continued to be plagued with controversy and cost overruns.\n\nKunicon held several events over the course of a convention, including gaming competitions, cosplay contests, panels, live music concerts, anime screenings, and special performances.\n\nOriginally announced as \"Otakucon\", the convention started going by \"OtakuCon Miami Beach\" several months before the first convention in Miami, Florida. Otakon staff has reported that they had ordered a cease-and-desist, but the convention chairman, Manny Camacho, had been reported as saying that the name was simply changed to avoid confusion. When the St. Louis event was announced as the second convention, it was announced under the name \"Kunicon\".\n\nFollowing the first convention in Miami, the staff cited an attendance of 5,000 people, which precisely matched their pre-con estimate. However, pictures taken by a fan photographer was used as evidence that numbers claimed by Kunicon were inflated.\n\nKunicon continued to plan events for San Diego, St. Louis, Atlanta, and Denver. However, San Diego was quickly canceled and the next convention was held in St. Louis in March 2005. The fourth and final Kunicon was held in Denver in June 2005, but went $30,000 over budget.\n\nThe controversy came to an end when Emanuel \"Manny\" Camacho, the Kunicon chairman, announced on his LiveJournal that he was unable to contact Subarashii Nation and he could not see how the next convention, Kunicon Miami in December 2005, could take place. He also stated that the staff and employees of the convention have not been paid for their work.\n\n"}
{"id": "27646414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27646414", "title": "List of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1991–2010", "text": "List of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1991–2010\n\nList of Fellows and Residents of the American Academy in Rome is a list of those who have been awarded the Rome Prize or were Residents of the American Academy in Rome.\nThe Rome Prize is a prestigious American award made annually by the American Academy in Rome, through a nationwide competition, to 15 emerging artists (working in Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Design, Historic Preservation and Conservation, Literature, Musical Composition, or Visual Arts) and to 15 scholars (working in Ancient, Medieval, Renaissance and early Modern, or Modern Italian Studies). Residents are selected from scholars and creative artists at a further stages in their career for shorter residencies at the American Academy. Some of these Residents are marked (R) in the table below. Affiliated Fellows (AFAAR) and Visiting Artists and Scholars are not listed below.\n\nSociety of Fellows, American Academy in Rome, Member Directory\n\n"}
{"id": "53412134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53412134", "title": "List of Shakespeare in the Park productions at the Delacorte Theater", "text": "List of Shakespeare in the Park productions at the Delacorte Theater\n\nThe Public Theater has produced over 100 plays and musicals at the Delacorte Theater in New York City's Central Park since the theater's opening in 1962. Currently the series is produced under the brand Free Shakespeare in the Park, and all productions are staged at the Delacorte. In past decades, the series was branded the New York Shakespeare Festival and encompassed productions at both the Delacorte and the Public's downtown location near Astor Place.\n\nOfficially \"Henry VIII\", staged in 1997, was celebrated as the final work of the Shakespearean canon to be performed as part of the series. However, , the three parts of \"Henry VI\" have not been performed at the Delacorte except as the heavily adapted \"Wars of the Roses\" in 1970.\n\n\"Measure for Measure\" is the most-performed work, having been produced once during each of the six decades the Delacorte has been operating.\n\nAll plays are by William Shakespeare unless otherwise noted.\n"}
{"id": "9527293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9527293", "title": "Live Earth", "text": "Live Earth\n\nLive Earth is an event developed to increase environmental awareness through entertainment.\n\nFounded by Emmy-winning producer Kevin Wall, in partnership with former U.S. Vice President Al Gore, \"Live Earth\" was built upon the belief that entertainment has the power to transcend social and cultural barriers to move the world community to action. Live Earth seeks to leverage the power of entertainment through integrated events, media, and the live experience to ignite a global movement aimed at solving the most critical environmental issues of our time.\n\nThe 1st series of benefit concerts were held on July 7, 2007. The concerts brought together more than 150 musical acts in eleven locations around the world and were broadcast to a mass global audience through television, radio, and live internet streams.\n\nThe 2nd \"Live Earth\" concert was scheduled for December 7, 2008 at the \"Andheri Sports Complex\" on Veera Desai Road in Andheri West, Mumbai, India and was managed by Kevin Wall who, after a request from former U. S. Vice President Al Gore, planned to have the entire event take place in India. In September, 2008 Reuters stated that, \"the December event will see U.S. rocker Jon Bon Jovi and Bollywood's biggest superstar, Amitabh Bachchan share the stage, and is described by organisers as one of the biggest events held in India.\" Shekhar Kapur, Nobel laureate Rajendra Pachauri, Abhishek Bachchan, and Aishwarya Rai also planned to star in the event. Additional acts included Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy, Hrithik Roshan, Preity Zinta, Roger Waters of \"Pink Floyd\", will.i.am, Hard Kaur, and Anoushka Shankar. Palash Sen stated that his band, \"Euphoria\", was scheduled to launch a song written for the concert on the topic of global warming.\n\n\"Live Earth\" would have been broadcast by STAR TV (Asia), which works in conjunction with the \"STAR Plus\" channel (United Kingdom, Middle East) and the Star World Channel. MSN was \"the exclusive global broadband partner for Live Earth India.\"\n\nThe concert was cancelled shortly after the November 2008 Mumbai attacks on November 26, 2008. Wall, Gore, and Pachauri stated in a joint press release that, \"due to circumstances far beyond our control, we are saddened to announce that \"Live Earth India\" has been cancelled. We will continue to work for solutions to the climate crisis for the good of the people of India and around the world. But for now, our thoughts and our prayers are with the victims of this terrible attack, with the bereaved, with the people of Mumbai and with everyone in India.\" Some argued against the cancellation stating that \"music could have helped fear-hardened Mumbai to ride the storm.\" Jethro Tull and Anoushka Shankar, who also cancelled their 29 November Mumbai concert after the November 2008 Mumbai attacks, reorganized the performance as \"A Billion Hands Concert\", a benefit performance for victims of the attacks, and held it in Mumbai on December 5, 2008.\n\nThe Dow Live Earth Run for Water took place April 18, 2010 and consisted of a series of 6 km run/walks (the average distance many women and children walk every day to secure water) taking place over the course of 24 hours in countries around the world, featuring concerts and water education activities aimed at igniting a tipping point to help solve the water crisis. Jessica Biel, Alexandra Cousteau, Pete Wentz, Angélique Kidjo and Jenny Fletcher were due to lend their names and their time in support.\n\nBefore and after the event there was concern over the sponsorship of the Run For Water by Dow Chemical, whose sponsorship of this event has been described as \"the ultimate in greenwashing\", given Dow's ownership of Union Carbide, their refusal to clean up the Bhopal site, plus their direct responsibility for groundwater poisoning incidents in Morrisonville, Louisiana and the Tittabawassee River in Michigan. Their much-publicised water filtration plants in India have failed because the local population cannot afford to replace the expensive high-tech filters.\n\nThe Dow Live Earth Run for Water was hosted by about 200 cities around the world, including: Amsterdam, Atlanta, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Cairo, Cape Town, Chicago, Chongqing, Copenhagen, Hong Kong, Istanbul, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Jimbaran, Karachi, Lima, Lisbon, Los Angeles, Manila, Melbourne, Mexico City, Minneapolis, Monterrey, Montreal, New York City, Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, San Diego, Santiago, Santo Domingo, Seattle, Singapore City, Sydney, Toronto, Vancouver and Washington, D.C.\n\nMany of the cities featured live entertainment following the 6K run/walk. Artists include Melissa Etheridge in Los Angeles with The Roots; special guest John Legend in Brooklyn's Prospect Park; Rob Thomas in Atlanta; Collective Soul with special guest Sam Moore in Chicago; Kany García in Mexico City; Kevin Johansen and The Nada in Buenos Aires; and Slank in Bali.\n\nDemonstrations against the run had been planned by the International Campaign for Justice in Bhopal.\n\nThe Dow sponsorship of the Run For Water was protested by organizations representing the victims of the Bhopal tragedy, supported by Amnesty International. Planned events were also cancelled in Milan.\n\nIn New Delhi, the event was protested by a group of activists who disguised their involvement by creating a fictitious front organization, the Hindustan Sea Turtle Alliance, to register their event with Live Earth.\n\nAll donations raised by the Dow Live Earth Run for Water will be disseminated to fund sustainable and scalable water programs. A growing global network of NGO partners including Global Water Challenge, A Child's Right, Akvo, Fondo Para La Paz, Indonesia Water Partnership, Lien Aid, Pump Aid, Wildlands Conservation Trust, and many others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48522852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48522852", "title": "Loadshedding Schedule", "text": "Loadshedding Schedule\n\nLoadshedding Schedule is a schedule of electricity cutting time/period in country Nepal. Nepal Electricity Authority have covered whole country in 7 Groups. Loadshedding time is different for different groups in a day. \nHere is latest Loadshedding schedule\n(as per January 23 2016) :\n\nGroup:1\n\nSun\n06:00 - 14:00\n17:00 - 21:00\n\nMon\n11:00 - 19:00\n\nTue\n03:00 - 10:00\n14:00 - 20:00\n\nWed\n05:00 - 12:00\n16:00 - 20:00\n\nThu\n07:00 - 15:00\n18:00 -21:00\n\nFri\n04:00 - 12:g00\n16:00 - 22:00\n\nSat\n04:00 - 11:00\n15:00 - 21:00\nGroup:2\n\nSun\n04:00 - 11:00\n15:00 - 21:00\n\nMon\n05:00 - 14:00\n18:00 - 22:00\n\nTue\n11:00 - 19:00\n\nWed\n03:00 - 10:00\n14:00 - 20:00\n\nThu\n06:00 - 15:00\n19:00 - 23:00\n\nFri\n10:00 - 16:00\n20:00 - 00:00\n\nSat\n04:00 - 12:00\n16:00 - 22:00\nGroup:3\n\nSun\n04:00 - 12:00\n16:00 - 22:00\n\nMon\n04:00 - 11:00\n15:00 - 21:00\n\nTue\n05:00 - 14:00\n18:00 - 22:00\n\nWed\n11:00 - 19:00\n\nThu\n03:00 - 10:00\n14:00 - 20:00\n\nFri\n06:00 - 15:00\n19:00 - 23:00\n\nSat\n10:00 - 16:00\n20:00 - 00:00\nGroup:4\n\nSun\n10:00 - 16:00\n20:00 - 00:00\n\nMon\n04:00 - 12:00\n16:00 - 22:00\n\nTue\n04:00 - 11:00\n15:00 - 21:00\n\nWed\n05:00 - 14:00\n18:00 - 22:00\n\nThu\n11:00 - 19:00\n\nFri\n03:00 - 10:00\n14:00 - 20:00\n\nSat\n06:00 - 15:00\n19:00 - 23:00\nGroup:5\n\nSun\n06:00 - 15:00\n19:00 - 23:00\n\nMon\n10:00 - 16:00\n20:00 - 00:00\n\nTue\n04:00 - 12:00\n16:00 - 22:00\n\nWed\n04:00 - 11:00\n15:00 - 21:00\n\nThu\n05:00 - 14:00\n18:00 - 22:00\n\nFri\n11:00 - 19:00\n\nSat\n03:00 - 10:00\n14:00 - 20:00\nGroup:6\n\nSun\n03:00 - 10:00\n14:00 - 20:00\n\nMon\n06:00 - 15:00\n19:00 - 23:00\n\nTue\n10:00 - 16:00\n20:00 - 00:00\n\nWed\n04:00 - 12:00\n16:00 - 22:00\n\nThu\n04:00 - 11:00\n15:00 - 21:00\n\nFri\n05:00 - 14:00\n18:00 - 22:00\n\nSat\n11:00 - 19:00\nGroup:7\n\nSun\n11:00 - 19:00\n\nMon\n03:00 - 10:00\n14:00 - 20:00\n\nTue\n06:00 - 15:00\n19:00 - 23:00\n\nWed\n10:00 - 16:00\n20:00 - 00:00\n\nThu\n04:00 - 12:00\n16:00 - 22:00\n\nFri\n04:00 - 11:00\n15:00 - 21:00\n\nSat\n05:00 - 14:00\n18:00 - 22:00\n"}
{"id": "2807634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2807634", "title": "Lucas Papademos", "text": "Lucas Papademos\n\nLucas Demetrios Papademos (; born 11 October 1947) is a Greek economist who served as Prime Minister of Greece from November 2011 to May 2012, leading a provisional government in the wake of the Greek debt crisis. He previously served as Vice President of the European Central Bank from 2002 to 2010 and Governor of the Bank of Greece from 1994 to 2002.\n\nHe was a Visiting Professor of Public Policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Financial Studies at the University of Frankfurt.\n\nPapademos was born in Athens to parents who came from the town of Desfina in Phocis. After graduating from Athens College in 1966, Papademos was accepted into the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he gained a bachelor's degree in physics in 1970, a master's degree in electrical engineering in 1972, and a doctorate in economics in 1978.\n\nIn 1975, he worked with Franco Modigliani on the NAIRU concept. He engaged in a career in academia, teaching economics at Columbia University from 1975 until 1984, before moving to the University of Athens in 1988.\n\nHis work as an economist began in 1980, when he was appointed Senior Economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. He joined the Bank of Greece in 1985 as its Chief Economist, rising to the rank of Deputy Governor in 1993, and finally Governor in 1994. During his time as Governor of the central bank, Papademos was involved in Greece's transition from the drachma to the euro as its national currency.\n\nAfter leaving the Bank of Greece in 2002, Papademos became the Vice President to Wim Duisenberg, and then Jean-Claude Trichet, at the European Central Bank from 2002 to 2010. In 2010 he served as an economic advisor to Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou.\nHe was previously a member of the non-governmental group Trilateral Commission.\n\nHe is a member of the Academy of Athens.\nHe has published numerous articles in the fields of macroeconomic theory, the structure and functioning of financial markets, monetary analysis and policy, theory of chaos as well as on subjects concerning the economic performance, financial stability, financial instability and economic policy in the European Union. He has also delivered addresses on the Greek debt crisis.\n\nPapademos was first proposed as a potential caretaker Prime Minister of Greece in early November 2011, after Prime Minister George Papandreou offered to resign and allow a provisional coalition government to deal with the major political turmoil caused by the country's debt crisis.\n\nLucas Papademos set two conditions upon which he would accept the offer of being Prime Minister of this provisional government. The first, was that the new government would not have a very restricted life span as New Democracy had demanded, and the second was that political figures from both New Democracy and the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) would participate in the government. Both of these were initially vetoed by New Democracy, but after several days of negotiations they relented and accepted Papademos' demands. This enabled Papademos to form a government made up of PASOK and New Democracy, with the support of the far-right Popular Orthodox Rally.\n\nAfter a week of political turmoil and negotiations between parties triggered by Papandreou's resignation, Papademos was sworn in as Prime Minister of Greece on 11 November 2011, unveiling his provisional Cabinet shortly afterwards. The other two parliamentary parties, the Communist Party and the Coalition of the Radical Left (SYRIZA), had refused Papandreou's invitation to participate in the government.\nThe provisional government also marks the first time that the far-right has played a part in any Greek government since the fall of the military junta in 1974.\n\nPapademos stated that his government's primary task would be to facilitate the financial bailout from the European Union - which was provided on the condition that severe budget austerity be implemented - and to lead the country until elections could be held. Papademos also stated that his sole priority as Prime Minister would be to try to keep Greece within the Eurozone.\n\nIn January 2012, Papademos warned that workers would have to accept substantial cuts in their income in order for a default to be avoided. He also told business and union leaders that the \"troika\" — the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the ECB — was looking for Greece to take steps to open up so-called closed professions, as well as adjustments to the minimum wage, abolition of Christmas and summer vacation bonuses and automatic wage increases. Papademos also declared in January that his provisional government would last until at least April, instead of February as was originally planned, so that further austerity measures could be implemented before an election.\n\nIn late April 2012, Papademos announced that he would ask President Karolos Papoulias to dissolve the Hellenic Parliament, paving the way for a general election to be held on 6 May 2012. Papademos had intended to stand down shortly after this election, but it resulted in a hung parliament. Subsequently New Democracy, PASOK, and the anti-austerity SYRIZA - which had jumped into second place - attempted to form a government, but all were unsuccessful. Emergency negotiations to attempt to avoid a return to the polls took place on 13 May, but were inconclusive. On the same day, Papademos wrote to President Papoulias to inform him that the Ministry of Finance could only afford to pay salaries until the end of June, and that the need for Greece to recapitalise her liquid assets was \"urgent\". Negotiations in the aftermath of the election were unable to produce a government leading to a snap general election, which took place on 17 June 2012. In the wake of the announcement of the election Papademos stepped down, proposing Panagiotis Pikrammenos - a judge and the President of the Council of State - to replace him as caretaker Prime Minister until a permanent government could be formed.\n\nAs of 2011, Papademos has been married to Shanna Ingram for more than 30 years. They have no children. Of Dutch descent, as of 2012 she was the President of the charity group Association of Friends of Children with Cancer.\n\nIn Athens on 25 May 2017, a suspected letter bomb exploded within his car, causing non-life-threatening arm, leg and stomach injuries to Papademos. His driver sustained leg injuries in the attack and another passenger, a banking official, was also injured.\n\n"}
{"id": "53110610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53110610", "title": "Marc Short", "text": "Marc Short\n\nMarc Short (born March 3, 1970) is a Senior Fellow at the Miller Center of Public Affairs and a contributor for CNN. He previously served as the White House Director of Legislative Affairs for President Trump; Chief of Staff for Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison; Chief of Staff for the House Republican Conference; and President of Freedom Partners Chamber of Commerce.\n\nShort was born in Virginia. He graduated from Washington and Lee University in 1992.\n\nShort served as finance director for Oliver North's unsuccessful 1994 Senate campaign in Virginia. He then worked as spokesperson and executive director for The Freedom Alliance. Short was also the executive director of Young America's Foundation. In 1998, the group purchased the Reagan Ranch in California, with the intention of using it for leadership seminars for college students. Short managed the property with his wife and got his start in fundraising from conservative donors. The Shorts then returned to Virginia, where he received his MBA from the University of Virginia.\n\nFollowing his graduation, Short was hired as a spokesperson for the Department of Homeland Security. He then worked for Republican Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, eventually becoming her chief of staff. When Hutchison ran for Governor of Texas, Short started working for then-Congressman Mike Pence, who named him chief of staff for the House Republican Conference in 2009. He remained in the position until 2011. Short was then hired by Freedom Partners, a non-profit, 501(c)(6) chamber of commerce located in Arlington, Virginia that is largely funded by Charles and David Koch. He served as the organization's President from 2011 to 2016.\nIn February 2016, Short left his position at Freedom Partners to start his own consulting firm. Among his clients were Marco Rubio's presidential campaign and Pence's Indiana gubernatorial campaign. Pence eventually withdrew from the gubernatorial race to become Trump's running mate. On June 16, 2016, Short was named Communications Advisor to then Vice Presidential candidate Pence.\n\nPresident Trump named Short the Director of Legislative Affairs on January 4, 2017.\n\nShort announced he would leave the White House post in the summer of 2018, citing “diminishing returns” of pushing President Donald Trump’s agenda.\n\nMarc and Kristen Short were married in 1997. They have three children and live in Arlington, Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "33455518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33455518", "title": "Muiris Ó Rócháin", "text": "Muiris Ó Rócháin\n\nMuiris Ó Rócháin (1944 in Dingle – 17 October 2011 in Milltown Malbay) was a teacher, director of the Willie Clancy Summer School, president of Oireachtas na Gaeilge and folk collector.\n\nÓ Rócháin was a qualified teacher who taught mathematics and Irish in Cahersiveen, Waterville, Dublin and Spanish Point. While working in Dublin he met his wife Una Guerin and followed her to her native place Milltown Malbay, they married in 1970.\n\nMuiris Ó Rócháin was one of the founders of the Willie Clancy Summer School. He was its director for many years.\n\nOver the years, he spent much time to folklore, community life and especially to Irish culture. Many organisations availed of his time and knowledge. Amongst others: Dál gCais, journal on Irish culture, Oidhreacht an Chláir Teo (Clare Institute for Traditional Studies). and The Clare Festival of Traditional Singing.\n\nIn 2001 Ó Rócháin was appointed as president of the Oireachtas na Gaeilge, an annually held arts festival of Irish culture.\n\nÓ Rócháin was involved in the creation of three movies:\n\n"}
{"id": "35259445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35259445", "title": "Murder of Revelle Balmain", "text": "Murder of Revelle Balmain\n\nRevelle Sabine Balmain (11 July 1972-c. 5 November 1994) was an Australian model, dancer and escort who mysteriously disappeared from the Sydney suburb of Kingsford in early November 1994. Her body has never been found.\n\nBalmain was planning on visiting Japan for her fourth cabaret tour. She had been working as an escort to establish herself, and she was planning on finishing escort work so that she could fully concentrate on her showbusiness career. At 4 o'clock on the afternoon of 5 November, Balmain, who worked as an escort under the name of \"Mischa\", visited a client in the south-eastern Sydney suburb of Kingsford. After the two-hour appointment was over she had planned to meet friend Kate Brentnell for a drink. After that she would be seeing her new boyfriend, a 27-year old writer involved in the film industry. At 7.15 pm Revelle rang Kate Brentnell to say that she was about to leave her client and suggested that they meet at the Royal Hotel, Paddington. She did not keep that appointment.\n\nOn the following day, 5 November, Balmain's bag, make-up, diary, credit cards and keys to her Bellevue Hill flat were found scattered around several Kingsford streets. One of her shell-studded platform shoes was retrieved from one street; the other shoe was found in another street.\nPolice interviewed Balmain's client, who said that he had driven her to the nearby Red Tomato Inn at about 7.00 pm on the evening of 5 November. Police officers also questioned the escort agency's owners, but the enquiries resulted in no charges being laid.\n\nAfter a couple of fruitless weeks of searching, the New South Wales government offered a reward of $100,000 for anyone who could provide information that would lead to the arrest of Balmain's killer. The reward for information is now up to $250,000.\n\nIn May 1999 the Deputy State Coroner, John Abernethy, handed down an open finding into Balmain's presumed death. He said he \"could not ascertain\" how she died, as her body had never been found.\n\nIn 2008, forensic evidence suggested that Balmain was murdered in the house of the client who she had visited, which belonged to Gavin Owen Samer. The 1999 coronial inquiry suggested Samer as a suspect, but fell short of recommending charges. Members of Balmain's family also believe that there were major flaws in the police investigation of the disappearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40018488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40018488", "title": "National Insect Week", "text": "National Insect Week\n\nNational Insect Week is a biennial initiative in the UK. Usually held during the last week of June, the aim is to engage the general public with the importance of insects and entomology. The week is organised by the Royal Entomological Society and supported by a large number of partner organisations concerned with insect science, natural history and conservation. The week consists of hundreds of events and activities across UK, allowing the public to discover insects and meet the entomologists that study them. The popular National Insect Week Photography Competition is launched during the week and attracts entries from large numbers of amateur photographers. As well as promoting the importance of insect science to the wider public, National Insect Week particularly aims to encourage young people into entomology.\n\nPast National Insect Week campaigns have been endorsed by HRH The Prince of Wales, Prof David Bellamy OBE, Chris Packham, Kate Humble and Mike Dilger.\n\nThe next National Insect Week will be 18-24 June, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18465654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18465654", "title": "Oliver Pocher", "text": "Oliver Pocher\n\nOliver Pocher (born 18 February 1978) is a German actor, stand-up comedian and television host.\n\nPocher is the son of Gerhard and Jutta Pocher; he was born and grew up in Hanover, West Germany. His parents are Jehovah's Witnesses and he too was raised as one. In 2007, Pocher stated that, unlike his parents, he had no contact with the organization anymore as he claimed \"not to have agreed with their rules“.\n\nReports that Pocher had attended a Waldorf school were denied by his management. \nPocher successfully completed his training as an insurance broker at Signal Iduna Bauspar AG.\n\nDuring the time of his apprenticeship he had some part-time jobs at various radio stations and as a DJ in clubs and during family celebrations. He also appeared in the comedian group Holla-Bolla and as an entertainer at Birte Karalus, a German chat show. After his apprenticeship he worked for the Swiss life insurance \" Schweizerische Lebensversicherungs- und Rentenanstalt\" (today: SwissLife) and the \"HDI Lebensversicherung AG\" (HDI life insurance).\n\nPocher's first television appearance was on 28 October 1998 at the afternoon chat show of Bärbel Schäfer. Pocher was given 5 minutes to make the audience laugh.\n\nOn 29 September 1999 he presented the show \"Chart Surfer Trash Top 100\", \"Was geht ab\", \"Planet Viva\" and finally 2002 his own show \"Alles Pocher, ... oder was?\".\n\nBetween January 2003 to 14 April 2006 he presents the show \"Rent a Pocher\" on ProSieben.\n\nIn 2006 he recorded the single \"Schwarz und Weiss,\" a song dedicated to the 2006 world cup. A music video was made, featuring Oliver as several pressbox speakers, as well as him performing the song in front of fans dressed in Team Germany attire.\n\nFrom October 2007 to April 2009, Pocher joined established late night host Harald Schmidt's show on the Das Erste television channel, with the show being called \"Schmidt und Pocher\".\n\nIn 2008 his third single \"Bringt ihn heim“ (engl.: bring him home) was released. It is a song for the European Football Championship of 2008. The original version is Baschi's number one hit (Switzerland) “Bring en hei“ He acted as a co-trainer of the European Team during the DEL All Star Game in 2009. \n\nPocher's contract was not renewed after April 2009, so he was hired by Sat.1 instead to present his own late night show, \"Die Oliver Pocher Show\". The show's ratings were always below the station's average and even slipping over the course of the run until it was cancelled in March 2011.\n\nOliver Pocher is widely criticised for his jokes at the expense of others. After he recommended plastic surgery to a woman of the audience of the \"Wetten, dass..?\" (\"Wanna Bet..?\") episode on 22 January 2005, he was sued for damages of 25,000 Euros. Although he apologized to her on the phone and repeated this apology in public during one of his shows, he was not able to solve this conflict out of court. On the 11th of January Pocher was sentenced by the district court of Hanover to pay a fine of 6,000 euros. The judge in charge called Pocher’s statement (“You look quite old for your age”) a “very insulting comment”. The public insulting continued in January 2008 during the TV show \"Johannes B. Kerner\" when Pocher once again made fun of this woman’s appearance and mocked the verdict. As a result, another suit was filed against the entertainer. The victim’s lawyer explained that the woman was insulted and that the topic is repeatedly brought up by people whom she meets during her work. Pocher did not comment on this. Statements as those made by Pocher could be legal in the future, as the Council of Europe is advising to decriminalize insults.\n\nPocher caused a scandal in July 2005 during the ZDF (German broadcasting station) – show \"Gottschalk & Friends\" when he first insulted Mariah Carey and later accidentally spat water onto her. For this action he has been harshly criticised by some newspapers and by the broadcast station in charge. Gottschalk himself kept calm and commented upon the incident: \"Of course I do not want to have jokes at the expense of others during my show and I do not want corpses to be carried away from the battlefield afterwards. If you invite Pocher to your show, however, you should expect a different atmosphere than with, for example, Alfred Biolek.\"\n\nWhen Pocher mocked the personal life of singer Sarah Connor and her reality show, Connor sued Pocher. While the exact outcome of the lawsuit is not known, Pocher did apologize to Connor.\n\nIn January 2009, during the TV show “Schmidt & Pocher“, Pocher spoofed the Hitler assassin Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg, who is portrayed by Tom Cruise in “Operation Walküre“. He had to face negative feedback for this and thereafter the broadcasting commission examined this incident.\n\nIn February 2014, at the Vienna Ball, Oliver Pocher was interviewed by Mirjam Wechselbraun with Kim Kardashian. He joked that he was only going to dance when 'N****** in Vienna' was played.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6918101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6918101", "title": "Political houseparty", "text": "Political houseparty\n\nA political houseparty is a party held in a private home for the purpose of supporting a particular candidate, political party, or ballot measure, or to share information and opinions about an upcoming election.\n\nSuch events may be arranged as a dinner party, or with light or no refreshments in a more casual setting. In municipal politics, it is not uncommon for the candidate to appear at the event to explain his or her platform and to answer questions.\n\nSupporters are often encouraged to organize political house parties by the organizers of the political campaign. Advantages include a stronger persuasive power than a lawn sign or political ad because some information is coming from trusted friends, there is time to convey a substantial amount of information, and the event is interactive. The primary disadvantage is that the house party will only \"reach\" a relatively small number of people, compared to the time and money required to have it.\n"}
{"id": "37306831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37306831", "title": "Public holidays in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Public holidays in the United Arab Emirates\n\nThe following table indicates declared United Arab Emirates government national holidays for the year 2014 only—cultural variants also provide opportunity for holidays tied to local events. In total there are 6 public holidays.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36562910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36562910", "title": "Ray Opera House", "text": "Ray Opera House\n\nRay Opera House on Main St. in Ray, North Dakota, United States, was built in 1904. It also has been known as Charlson's Store. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.\n"}
{"id": "25382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25382", "title": "Recession", "text": "Recession\n\nIn economics, a recession is a business cycle contraction when there is a general slowdown in economic activity. Macroeconomic indicators such as GDP (gross domestic product), investment spending, capacity utilization, household income, business profits, and inflation fall, while bankruptcies and the unemployment rate rise. In the United Kingdom, it is defined as a negative economic growth for two consecutive quarters.\n\nRecessions generally occur when there is a widespread drop in spending (an adverse demand shock). This may be triggered by various events, such as a financial crisis, an external trade shock, an adverse supply shock or the bursting of an economic bubble. Governments usually respond to recessions by adopting expansionary macroeconomic policies, such as increasing money supply, increasing government spending and decreasing taxation.\n\nIn a 1974 \"The New York Times\" article, Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics Julius Shiskin suggested several rules of thumb for defining a recession, one of which was two down consecutive quarters of GDP. In time, the other rules of thumb were forgotten. Some economists prefer a definition of a 1.5-2 percentage points rise in unemployment within 12 months.\n\nIn the United States, the Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) is generally seen as the authority for dating US recessions. The NBER defines an economic recession as: \"a significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months, normally visible in real GDP, real income, employment, industrial production, and wholesale-retail sales.\" Almost universally, academics, economists, policy makers, and businesses defer to the determination by the NBER for the precise dating of a recession's onset and end.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, recessions are generally defined as two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth, as measured by the seasonal adjusted quarter-on-quarter figures for real GDP, with the same definition being used for all other member states of the European Union.\nA recession has many attributes that can occur simultaneously and includes declines in component measures of economic activity (GDP) such as consumption, investment, government spending, and net export activity. These summary measures reflect underlying drivers such as employment levels and skills, household savings rates, corporate investment decisions, interest rates, demographics, and government policies.\n\nEconomist Richard C. Koo wrote that under ideal conditions, a country's economy should have the household sector as net savers and the corporate sector as net borrowers, with the government budget nearly balanced and net exports near zero. When these relationships become imbalanced, recession can develop within the country or create pressure for recession in another country. Policy responses are often designed to drive the economy back towards this ideal state of balance.\n\nA severe (GDP down by 10%) or prolonged (three or four years) recession is referred to as an economic depression, although some argue that their causes and cures can be different. As an informal shorthand, economists sometimes refer to different recession shapes, such as V-shaped, U-shaped, L-shaped and W-shaped recessions.\n\nThe type and shape of recessions are distinctive. In the US, v-shaped, or short-and-sharp contractions followed by rapid and sustained recovery, occurred in 1954 and 1990–91; U-shaped (prolonged slump) in 1974–75, and W-shaped, or double-dip recessions in 1949 and 1980–82. Japan’s 1993–94 recession was U-shaped and its 8-out-of-9 quarters of contraction in 1997–99 can be described as L-shaped. Korea, Hong Kong and South-east Asia experienced U-shaped recessions in 1997–98, although Thailand’s eight consecutive quarters of decline should be termed L-shaped.\n\nRecessions have psychological and confidence aspects. For example, if companies expect economic activity to slow, they may reduce employment levels and save money rather than invest. Such expectations can create a self-reinforcing downward cycle, bringing about or worsening a recession. Consumer confidence is one measure used to evaluate economic sentiment. The term animal spirits has been used to describe the psychological factors underlying economic activity. Economist Robert J. Shiller wrote that the term \"...refers also to the sense of trust we have in each other, our sense of fairness in economic dealings, and our sense of the extent of corruption and bad faith. When animal spirits are on ebb, consumers do not want to spend and businesses do not want to make capital expenditures or hire people.\"\n\nHigh levels of indebtedness or the bursting of a real estate or financial asset price bubble can cause what is called a \"balance sheet recession.\" This is when large numbers of consumers or corporations pay down debt (i.e., save) rather than spend or invest, which slows the economy. The term balance sheet derives from an accounting identity that holds that assets must always equal the sum of liabilities plus equity. If asset prices fall below the value of the debt incurred to purchase them, then the equity must be negative, meaning the consumer or corporation is insolvent. Economist Paul Krugman wrote in 2014 that \"the best working hypothesis seems to be that the financial crisis was only one manifestation of a broader problem of excessive debt--that it was a so-called \"balance sheet recession.\" In Krugman's view, such crises require debt reduction strategies combined with higher government spending to offset declines from the private sector as it pays down its debt.\n\nFor example, economist Richard Koo wrote that Japan's \"Great Recession\" that began in 1990 was a \"balance sheet recession.\" It was triggered by a collapse in land and stock prices, which caused Japanese firms to have negative equity, meaning their assets were worth less than their liabilities. Despite zero interest rates and expansion of the money supply to encourage borrowing, Japanese corporations in aggregate opted to pay down their debts from their own business earnings rather than borrow to invest as firms typically do. Corporate investment, a key demand component of GDP, fell enormously (22% of GDP) between 1990 and its peak decline in 2003. Japanese firms overall became net savers after 1998, as opposed to borrowers. Koo argues that it was massive fiscal stimulus (borrowing and spending by the government) that offset this decline and enabled Japan to maintain its level of GDP. In his view, this avoided a U.S. type Great Depression, in which U.S. GDP fell by 46%. He argued that monetary policy was ineffective because there was limited demand for funds while firms paid down their liabilities. In a balance sheet recession, GDP declines by the amount of debt repayment and un-borrowed individual savings, leaving government stimulus spending as the primary remedy.\n\nKrugman discussed the balance sheet recession concept during 2010, agreeing with Koo's situation assessment and view that sustained deficit spending when faced with a balance sheet recession would be appropriate. However, Krugman argued that monetary policy could also affect savings behavior, as inflation or credible promises of future inflation (generating negative real interest rates) would encourage less savings. In other words, people would tend to spend more rather than save if they believe inflation is on the horizon. In more technical terms, Krugman argues that the private sector savings curve is elastic even during a balance sheet recession (responsive to changes in real interest rates) disagreeing with Koo's view that it is inelastic (non-responsive to changes in real interest rates).\n\nA July 2012 survey of balance sheet recession research reported that consumer demand and employment are affected by household leverage levels. Both durable and non-durable goods consumption declined as households moved from low to high leverage with the decline in property values experienced during the subprime mortgage crisis. Further, reduced consumption due to higher household leverage can account for a significant decline in employment levels. Policies that help reduce mortgage debt or household leverage could therefore have stimulative effects.\n\nA liquidity trap is a Keynesian theory that a situation can develop in which interest rates reach near zero (zero interest-rate policy) yet do not effectively stimulate the economy. In theory, near-zero interest rates should encourage firms and consumers to borrow and spend. However, if too many individuals or corporations focus on saving or paying down debt rather than spending, lower interest rates have less effect on investment and consumption behavior; the lower interest rates are like \"pushing on a string.\" Economist Paul Krugman described the U.S. 2009 recession and Japan's lost decade as liquidity traps. One remedy to a liquidity trap is expanding the money supply via quantitative easing or other techniques in which money is effectively printed to purchase assets, thereby creating inflationary expectations that cause savers to begin spending again. Government stimulus spending and mercantilist policies to stimulate exports and reduce imports are other techniques to stimulate demand. He estimated in March 2010 that developed countries representing 70% of the world's GDP were caught in a liquidity trap.\n\nBehavior that may be optimal for an individual (e.g., saving more during adverse economic conditions) can be detrimental if too many individuals pursue the same behavior, as ultimately one person's consumption is another person's income. Too many consumers attempting to save (or pay down debt) simultaneously is called the paradox of thrift and can cause or deepen a recession. Economist Hyman Minsky also described a \"paradox of deleveraging\" as financial institutions that have too much leverage (debt relative to equity) cannot all de-leverage simultaneously without significant declines in the value of their assets.\n\nDuring April 2009, U.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen discussed these paradoxes: \"Once this massive credit crunch hit, it didn’t take long before we were in a recession. The recession, in turn, deepened the credit crunch as demand and employment fell, and credit losses of financial institutions surged. Indeed, we have been in the grips of precisely this adverse feedback loop for more than a year. A process of balance sheet deleveraging has spread to nearly every corner of the economy. Consumers are pulling back on purchases, especially on durable goods, to build their savings. Businesses are cancelling planned investments and laying off workers to preserve cash. And, financial institutions are shrinking assets to bolster capital and improve their chances of weathering the current storm. Once again, Minsky understood this dynamic. He spoke of the paradox of deleveraging, in which precautions that may be smart for individuals and firms—and indeed essential to return the economy to a normal state—nevertheless magnify the distress of the economy as a whole.\"\n\nThere are no known completely reliable predictors, but the following are considered possible predictors.\n\nAnalysis by Prakash Loungani of the International Monetary Fund found that only two of the sixty recessions around the world during the 1990s had been predicted by a consensus of economists one year earlier, while there were zero consensus predictions one year earlier for the 49 recessions during 2009.\n\nMost mainstream economists believe that recessions are caused by inadequate aggregate demand in the economy, and favor the use of expansionary macroeconomic policy during recessions. Strategies favored for moving an economy out of a recession vary depending on which economic school the policymakers follow. Monetarists would favor the use of expansionary monetary policy, while Keynesian economists may advocate increased government spending to spark economic growth. Supply-side economists may suggest tax cuts to promote business capital investment. When interest rates reach the boundary of an interest rate of zero percent (zero interest-rate policy) conventional monetary policy can no longer be used and government must use other measures to stimulate recovery. Keynesians argue that fiscal policy—tax cuts or increased government spending—works when monetary policy fails. Spending is more effective because of its larger multiplier but tax cuts take effect faster.\n\nFor example, Paul Krugman wrote in December 2010 that significant, sustained government spending was necessary because indebted households were paying down debts and unable to carry the U.S. economy as they had previously: \"The root of our current troubles lies in the debt American families ran up during the Bush-era housing bubble...highly indebted Americans not only can’t spend the way they used to, they’re having to pay down the debts they ran up in the bubble years. This would be fine if someone else were taking up the slack. But what’s actually happening is that some people are spending much less while nobody is spending more — and this translates into a depressed economy and high unemployment. What the government should be doing in this situation is spending more while the private sector is spending less, supporting employment while those debts are paid down. And this government spending needs to be sustained...\"\n\nSome recessions have been anticipated by stock market declines. In \"Stocks for the Long Run\", Siegel mentions that since 1948, ten recessions were preceded by a stock market decline, by a lead time of 0 to 13 months (average 5.7 months), while ten stock market declines of greater than 10% in the Dow Jones Industrial Average were not followed by a recession.\n\nThe real-estate market also usually weakens before a recession. However real-estate declines can last much longer than recessions.\n\nSince the business cycle is very hard to predict, Siegel argues that it is not possible to take advantage of economic cycles for timing investments. Even the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) takes a few months to determine if a peak or trough has occurred in the US.\n\nDuring an economic decline, high yield stocks such as fast-moving consumer goods, pharmaceuticals, and tobacco tend to hold up better. However, when the economy starts to recover and the bottom of the market has passed, growth stocks tend to recover faster. There is significant disagreement about how health care and utilities tend to recover. Diversifying one's portfolio into international stocks may provide some safety; however, economies that are closely correlated with that of the U.S. may also be affected by a recession in the U.S.\n\nThere is a view termed the \"halfway rule\" according to which investors start discounting an economic recovery about halfway through a recession. In the 16 U.S. recessions since 1919, the average length has been 13 months, although the recent recessions have been shorter. Thus, if the 2008 had recession followed the average, the downturn in the stock market would have bottomed around November 2008. The actual US stock market bottom of the 2008 recession was in March 2009.\n\nGenerally an administration gets credit or blame for the state of economy during its time. This has caused disagreements about on how it actually started. In an economic cycle, a downturn can be considered a consequence of an expansion reaching an unsustainable state, and is corrected by a brief decline. Thus it is not easy to isolate the causes of specific phases of the cycle.\n\nThe 1981 recession is thought to have been caused by the tight-money policy adopted by Paul Volcker, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, before Ronald Reagan took office. Reagan supported that policy. Economist Walter Heller, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the 1960s, said that \"I call it a Reagan-Volcker-Carter recession. The resulting taming of inflation did, however, set the stage for a robust growth period during Reagan's administration.\n\nEconomists usually teach that to some degree recession is unavoidable, and its causes are not well understood. Consequently, modern government administrations attempt to take steps, also not agreed upon, to soften a recession.\n\nUnemployment is particularly high during a recession. Many economists working within the neoclassical paradigm argue that there is a natural rate of unemployment which, when subtracted from the actual rate of unemployment, can be used to calculate the negative GDP gap during a recession. In other words, unemployment never reaches 0 percent, and thus is not a negative indicator of the health of an economy unless above the \"natural rate,\" in which case it corresponds directly to a loss in gross domestic product, or GDP.\nThe full impact of a recession on employment may not be felt for several quarters. Research in Britain shows that low-skilled, low-educated workers and the young are most vulnerable to unemployment in a downturn. After recessions in Britain in the 1980s and 1990s, it took five years for unemployment to fall back to its original levels. Many companies often expect employment discrimination claims to rise during a recession.\n\nProductivity tends to fall in the early stages of a recession, then rises again as weaker firms close. The variation in profitability between firms rises sharply. Recessions have also provided opportunities for anti-competitive mergers, with a negative impact on the wider economy: the suspension of competition policy in the United States in the 1930s may have extended the Great Depression.\n\nThe living standards of people dependent on wages and salaries are not more affected by recessions than those who rely on fixed incomes or welfare benefits. The loss of a job is known to have a negative impact on the stability of families, and individuals' health and well-being. Fixed income benefits receive small cuts which make it tougher to survive.\n\nAccording to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), \"Global recessions seem to occur over a cycle lasting between eight and 10 years.\" The IMF takes many factors into account when defining a global recession. Until April 2009, IMF several times communicated to the press, that a global annual real GDP growth of 3.0 percent or less in their view was \"...equivalent to a global recession.\"\nBy this measure, six periods since 1970 qualify: 1974–1975, 1980–1983, 1990–1993, 1998, 2001–2002, and 2008–2009. During what IMF in April 2002 termed the past three global recessions of the last three decades, global per capita output growth was zero or negative, and IMF argued—at that time—that because of the opposite being found for 2001, the economic state in this year by itself did not qualify as a \"global recession\".\n\nIn April 2009, IMF had changed their Global recession definition to: \nBy this new definition, a total of four global recessions took place since World War II: 1975, 1982, 1991 and 2009. All of them only lasted one year, although the third would have lasted three years (1991–93) if IMF as criteria had used the normal exchange rate weighted percapita real World GDP rather than the purchase power parity weighted percapita real World GDP.\n\nThe worst recession Australia has ever suffered happened in the beginning of the 1930s. As a result of late 1920s profit issues in agriculture and cutbacks, 1931-1932 saw Australia’s biggest recession in its entire history. It fared better than other nations, that underwent depressions, but their poor economic states influenced Australia’s as well, that depended on them for export, as well as foreign investments. The nation also benefited from bigger productivity in manufacturing, facilitated by trade protection, which also helped with feeling the effects less.\nDue to a credit squeeze, the economy had gone into a brief recession in 1961\nAustralia was facing a rising level of inflation in 1973, caused partially by the oil crisis happening in that same year, which brought inflation at a 13% increase. Economic recession hit by the middle of the year 1974, with no change in policy enacted by the government as a measure to counter the economic situation of the country. Consequently, the unemployment level rose and the trade deficit increased significantly.\n\nAnother recession – the most recent one to date – came in the 1990s, at the beginning of the decade. It was the result of a major stock collapse in 1987, in October, referred to now as Black Monday. Although the collapse was larger than the one in 1929, the global economy recovered quickly, but North America still suffered a decline in lumbering savings and loans, which led to a crisis. The recession wasn’t limited to only America, but it also affected partnering nations, such as Australia. The unemployment level increased to 10.8%, employment declined by 3.4% and the GDP also decreased as much as 1.7%. Inflation, however, was successfully reduced.\n\nThe most recent recession to affect the United Kingdom was the late-2000s recession.\n\nAccording to economists, since 1854, the U.S. has encountered 32 cycles of expansions and contractions, with an average of 17 months of contraction and 38 months of expansion. However, since 1980 there have been only eight periods of negative economic growth over one fiscal quarter or more, and four periods considered recessions:\n\nFor the past three recessions, the NBER decision has approximately conformed with the definition involving two consecutive quarters of decline. While the 2001 recession did not involve two consecutive quarters of decline, it was preceded by two quarters of alternating decline and weak growth.\n\nOfficial economic data shows that a substantial number of nations were in recession as of early 2009. The US entered a recession at the end of 2007, and 2008 saw many other nations follow suit. The US recession of 2007 ended in June 2009 as the nation entered the current economic recovery.\n\nThe United States housing market correction (a possible consequence of United States housing bubble) and subprime mortgage crisis significantly contributed to a recession.\n\nThe 2007–2009 recession saw private consumption fall for the first time in nearly 20 years. This indicates the depth and severity of the current recession. With consumer confidence so low, recovery takes a long time. Consumers in the U.S. have been hard hit by the current recession, with the value of their houses dropping and their pension savings decimated on the stock market. Not only have consumers watched their wealth being eroded – they are now fearing for their jobs as unemployment rises.\n\nU.S. employers shed 63,000 jobs in February 2008, the most in five years. Former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan said on 6 April 2008 that \"There is more than a 50 percent chance the United States could go into recession.\" On 1 October, the Bureau of Economic Analysis reported that an additional 156,000 jobs had been lost in September. On 29 April 2008, Moody's declared that nine US states were in a recession. In November 2008, employers eliminated 533,000 jobs, the largest single month loss in 34 years. For 2008, an estimated 2.6 million U.S. jobs were eliminated.\n\nThe unemployment rate in the US grew to 8.5 percent in March 2009, and there were 5.1 million job losses until March 2009 since the recession began in December 2007. That was about five million more people unemployed compared to just a year prior, which was the largest annual jump in the number of unemployed persons since the 1940s.\n\nAlthough the US Economy grew in the first quarter by 1%, by June 2008 some analysts stated that due to a protracted credit crisis and \"...rampant inflation in commodities such as oil, food, and steel,\" the country was nonetheless in a recession. The third quarter of 2008 brought on a GDP retraction of 0.5% the biggest decline since 2001. The 6.4% decline in spending during Q3 on non-durable goods, like clothing and food, was the largest since 1950.\n\nA 17 November 2008 report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia based on the survey of 51 forecasters, suggested that the recession started in April 2008 and would last 14 months. They project real GDP declining at an annual rate of 2.9% in the fourth quarter and 1.1% in the first quarter of 2009. These forecasts represent significant downward revisions from the forecasts of three months ago.\n\nA 1 December 2008, report from the National Bureau of Economic Research stated that the U.S. has been in a recession since December 2007 (when economic activity peaked), based on a number of measures including job losses, declines in personal income, and declines in real GDP. By July 2009 a growing number of economists believed that the recession may have ended. The National Bureau of Economic Research announced on 20 September 2010 that the 2008/2009 recession ended in June 2009, making it the longest recession since World War II.\n\nMany other countries, particularly in Europe, have undergone negative GDP growth. Some countries have been able to avoid a recession but have still experienced slower economic activity, such as China. India and Australia were able to maintain positive growth throughout the late-2000s recession.\n\nChina had their stock market crash, which began with the popping of the stock market bubble on 12 July 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "46833305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46833305", "title": "Reporter (magazine)", "text": "Reporter (magazine)\n\nReporter is a political magazine published in Slovenia. The magazine was first published in May 2008. The editors of the magazine are mostly former contributors of now-defunct Slovene magazine, \"Mag\". \"Reporter\" is published on a weekly basis. The magazine has a rightist political stance and has an ideological connection with the right-wing Slovenian Democratic Party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44777636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44777636", "title": "Resistanz", "text": "Resistanz\n\nResistanz was an industrial music festival held annually from 2011 until 2016 over the Easter weekend, at the Corporation venue in Sheffield, United Kingdom. The festival primarily featured alternative electronic music acts including industrial, EBM, futurepop, synthpop and power noise. In later years the festival expanded to include a smaller second room featuring an eclectic mix of artists from genres such as Chiptune, EDM and Drum and bass.\n\n"}
{"id": "8935628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8935628", "title": "Shakespeare at Winedale", "text": "Shakespeare at Winedale\n\nThe Shakespeare at Winedale program, created in 1970 by James B. \"Doc\" Ayres, is a program affiliated with the University of Texas at Austin, dedicated to Shakespearean criticism through performance of the plays. The main performance space at Winedale, located in Round Top, Texas, is a barn donated to the University of Texas by Ima Hogg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "660440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660440", "title": "Strasbourg Cathedral bombing plot", "text": "Strasbourg Cathedral bombing plot\n\nIn December 2000, an al-Qaeda plot to bomb the Strasbourg Christmas market, at the feet of the Strasbourg Cathedral on New Year's Eve was discovered. The plot was foiled by French and German police after a terrorist network based in Frankfurt, Germany, the \"Frankfurt group\", was unravelled. A total of fourteen people were convicted as part of the plot; four in Germany and ten in France, including the operational leader, Mohammed Bensakhria ( \"Meliani\"), thought to be a European deputy to Osama bin Laden. The alleged mastermind of the plot was thought to have been Abu Doha, who was detained in the United Kingdom.\n\nAfter being tipped off by British intelligence, German police on 26 December 2000 discovered bomb-making equipment during a raid of an apartment in Frankfurt. Four men were arrested. Among the findings were several pressure cookers, 30 kg of chemicals that could be used to make explosives, and a notebook describing how to mix homemade bombs. A video was also discovered, showing a crowded Christmas market in Strasbourg, with a voiceover in Arabic calling the people in the video \"enemies of Allah.\" The voiceover, attributed to one of the suspects, further said \"This cathedral is Allah's enemy,\" and \"You will go to hell, Allah willing.\" The call that had alerted British intelligence had been made by one in the group asking Abu Doha, the alleged mastermind of the plot, for more cash; Doha was already wanted by the United States for his connection to the Los Angeles International Airport millennium bombing plot.\n\nMembers of the Frankfurt group were found to have trained in al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan, to have connections to Islamist networks in Spain, Italy, Belgium and the United Kingdom, and to the Algerian terrorist group Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC). The discovery of the plot in Frankfurt led to further arrests in the United Kingdom, where another plot of killing members of the European Parliament was discovered, in which MEPs were to be killed with sarin nerve gas during session in Strasbourg in February 2001. British police arrested twelve people including Doha in February 2001 as a result of the Frankfurt operation. All British suspects were quickly released due to \"lack of evidence,\" although Doha was subsequently re-arrested. According to the Crown Prosecution Service, the charges against six main suspects were dropped for \"security reasons,\" which was linked by others to an MI5 bid to \"monitor\" the group.\n\nIn March 2003, the four suspects in Frankfurt, Aeurobui Beandali, Salim Boukhari, Fouhad Sabour and Lamine Maroni were sentenced to between 10 and 12 years imprisonment. According to the Frankfurt court, the group had planned to blow up pressure cookers packed with explosives, as they had learned in training camps in Afghanistan. The target was reported to have been the Christmas market at the Strasbourg Cathedral on New Year's Eve. The target was said to have been chosen deliberately for its Christian symbolism. Beandali was the only to confess to the plot, while Boukhari and Sabour claimed to have planned to attack an empty synagogue in Strasbourg.\n\nIn December 2004, ten suspects were put on trial in Paris, accused of being members of the Frankfurt group. The suspects, all Algerian or French-Algerian, were sentenced to terms of up to 10 years, convicted for \"criminal association with a terrorist enterprise\" with alleged connections to terrorist networks in the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain. The group's alleged leaders, Mohammed Bensakhria, 37 (a.k.a. Meliani, considered one of Osama bin Laden's \"lieutenants\" in Europe) and Slimane Khalfaoui, 29, were given 10 years, and Yacine Akhnouche, 30, was given eight. Bensakhria, the suspected ringleader, was thought to have fled Germany as he was arrested in Spain in 2001 and subsequently extradited to France. Rabah Kadre, 37, who was in detention in the United Kingdom was given six years, and was banned from entering French territory. The six other suspects, who received lesser terms, were convicted for giving logistical support to the plot by providing false documents to other group members.\n\n"}
{"id": "3558311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3558311", "title": "Summer Jam at Watkins Glen", "text": "Summer Jam at Watkins Glen\n\nThe Summer Jam at Watkins Glen was a 1973 rock festival which once received the Guinness Book of World Records entry for \"Largest audience at a pop festival.\" An estimated 600,000 rock fans came to the Watkins Glen Grand Prix Raceway outside Watkins Glen, New York on July 28, 1973, to see the Allman Brothers Band, Grateful Dead and The Band perform.\n\nThe concert was produced by Shelly Finkel and Jim Koplik, two promoters who previously organized a successful Grateful Dead concert at Dillon Stadium, Hartford, Connecticut, in 1972. At the Dillon Stadium concert, the Grateful Dead were joined on-stage by Dickey Betts, Berry Oakley, and Jai Johanny Johanson, members of The Allman Brothers Band. This impromptu jam planted the seeds that would eventually spawn the \"Summer Jam\" concert in Watkins Glen, NY.\n\nSimilar to the 1969 Woodstock Festival, an enormous traffic jam created chaos for those who attempted to make it to the concert site. Long and narrow country roads forced fans to abandon their vehicles and walk 5–8 miles on that hot summer day. 150,000 tickets were sold for $10 each, but for all the other people it was a free concert. The crowd was so huge that most of the audience was not able to see the stage. However the sound from the stage speakers was doubled 200 feet from the stage by four delay towers, towers with speakers wired to the stage amps but with a 0.175 second delay built in, so that by the time the sound from the stage speakers reaches the tower area through the air, the sound from the delay towers will be synchronized with the stage sound. There were six more delay towers arranged radially 200 feet further from those towers - 400 feet from the stage - and six more towers 200 feet further out. Sixteen delay towers in all, plus the main PA. They were driven by about 24,000 watts of power.\n\nAlthough the concert was scheduled to start on July 28, thousands of music fans were already at the concert site on the 27th. Robbie Robertson of The Band requested to do a soundcheck, but was perplexed that so many people were sitting in front of the stage. Bill Graham allowed the soundcheck with the crowd of people in front, and The Band ran through a few numbers to the delight of the audience. The Allman Brothers Band did their soundcheck next, playing \"One Way Out\" and \"Ramblin' Man\". The Grateful Dead's legendary soundcheck turned into a two set marathon, featuring their familiar tunes such as \"Sugaree\", \"Tennessee Jed\" and \"Wharf Rat\". They also performed a unique jam that was eventually included on their retrospective CD box set \"So Many Roads (1965-1995)\".\n\nOn July 28, the day of the concert, 600,000 music fans had arrived in Watkins Glen. Grateful Dead performed first, playing two long sets. They opened with \"Bertha\" and played many hits such as \"Box Of Rain\", \"Jack Straw\", \"Playing in the Band\", \"China Cat Sunflower\" and \"Eyes of the World\".\n\nThe Band followed the Dead with one two-hour set. However, their set was cut in half by a drenching thunderstorm, in a scene again reminiscent of Woodstock, people were covered with mud. During the storm, keyboardist Garth Hudson performed his signature organ improvisation \"The Genetic Method\"; when the rain finally let up, the full Band joined Hudson on stage, and segued into their signature song \"Chest Fever\", in a manner similar to how the songs were presented on The Band's live album \"Rock of Ages\".\n\nFinally, the Allman Brothers Band performed for three hours. Their performance included songs from their soon-to-be-released album \"Brothers and Sisters\", along with their standards \"In Memory of Elizabeth Reed\", \"Statesboro Blues\", \"Les Brers in A Minor\" and \"Whipping Post\".\n\nFollowing the Allmans' second set, there was an hour encore jam featuring musicians from all three bands. The jam featured spirited renditions of \"Not Fade Away\", \"Mountain Jam\", and \"Johnny B. Goode\".\n\nAlthough there were no reports of violence at Watkins Glen, the day was marred by the death of Willard Smith, 35, a skydiver from Syracuse, New York. Smith dived from an airplane carrying flares. One of the flares ignited his body suit, and he was engulfed in flames. Smith's body was eventually found in the woods near the concert site. There is also the unsolved disappearance of two high school teenagers (Mitchel Weiser and Bonnie Bickwit) from Brooklyn who were hitchhiking to the concert. If you want to know more about their disappearance listen to Ep. 41 of The Vanished Podcast. \n\nSummer Jam was the last concert event to be held at Watkins Glen International until 2011, when the rock band Phish organized and performed at a three day festival, called Super Ball IX, at the complex.\n\nIn 2013, a maintenance crew from Watkins Glen International found abandoned cars from the event in the woods on track property.\n\nA pirate radio station out of Hartford, Connecticut operated for seven days from the site of the concert. Broadcasting as CFR AM and CFR FM, they pulled a camper with a fully equipped radio studio into the concert's press area five days before the gates opened and were accepted by the other media as a Canadian radio station setting up to do a remote broadcast of the concert. Broadcasting commenced almost immediately after arrival at the site and consisted of live disc jockeys (10 people were involved with the pirate station, including several prominent Hartford DJs at the time). As opening day approached, station personnel interviewed Bill Graham, Phil Lesh of the Grateful Dead and various musicians as the studio/camper was set up along the access road between the heliport and the stage. Adjacent to the press area were a detachment of New York Mounted Police who appeared to be thrilled to have a station broadcasting from the site. In exchange for free food, the radio station relayed New York State Police announcements about traffic congestion every thirty minutes. Due to Watkins Glen Race track being on a hill, the station's AM and FM signals traveled several dozen miles. The station interrupted its regular programming to carry the last two days of the concert live and continued to broadcast for four days after the show ended to provide information and entertainment to the departing crowd.\n\nRecorded by the Record Plant NY Remote Truck with Jim Reeves, Frank Hubach and David Hewitt\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2188183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2188183", "title": "Vienna Volksoper", "text": "Vienna Volksoper\n\nThe Vienna Volksoper (Volksoper Wien or \"Vienna People's Opera\") is a major opera house in Vienna, Austria. It puts on around three hundred performances of twenty-five German language productions during an annual season which runs from September through June.\n\nIt was built in 1898 as the \"Kaiser-Jubiläums-Stadttheater\" (Kaiser's Jubilee Civic Theatre), originally producing only plays. Because of the very brief construction period (10 months) the first director Adam Müller-Gutenbrunn had to start with debts of 160,000 gulden. After this inauspicious startup the \"Kaiser-Jubiläums-Stadttheater\" had to declare bankruptcy five years later in 1903.\n\nOn 1 September 1903 Rainer Simons took over the house and renamed it the \"Kaiser-Jubiläums-Stadttheater - Volksoper\" (public opera). His intention was to continue the production of plays but also establish series of opera and operetta. The first Viennese performances of \"Tosca\" and \"Salome\" were given at the Volksoper in 1907 and 1910 respectively. World famous singers such as Maria Jeritza, Leo Slezak and Richard Tauber appeared there; the conductor Alexander Zemlinsky became the first bandmaster in 1906.\n\nIn the years up to and through the First World War the Volksoper attained a position as Vienna's second prestige opera house. In 1919, Felix Weingartner became Artistic Director and Principal Conductor. He was followed as Director by Hugo Gruder-Guntram. After 1929, it focused on light opera, and under Gruder-Guntram undertook a number of summer tours to Abbazia in 1935, Cairo and Alexandria in 1937 and throughout Italy in 1938, with guest appearances from Richard Tauber. After the Second World War, the Vienna Volksoper became the alternative venue to the devastated Vienna State Opera. In 1955 the Volksoper returned to its former role of presenting opera, operetta, and musicals.\n\nFrom September 1991 to June 1996 the Vienna Volksoper was under a collective leadership with the Vienna State Opera. In 1999 the Volksoper became a 100% subsidiary of the Bundestheater-Holding.\nSince 1 September 2007 Robert Meyer has headed the Volksoper as artistic director together with the business manager Christoph Ladstätter.\nEach season includes about 25 productions, a total of approximately 300 performances—a performance almost every day. In addition to opera, operetta, musicals and ballet, there are special performances and children's programs.\n\nOn three different levels there are 1261 seats and 72 standing room places as well as two places for wheelchairs.\n\nThe orchestra pit is equipped with two electrically driven stage lifts, with a loading capacity of 500 kg/m². It is adjustable in height from 0 to 2.65 meters below stage level.\n\nThe red velvet house curtain is hydraulically drawn and liftable. The gather velocity is 0.15 to 3.0 m/s, the lift velocity can be up to 2.0 m/s.\n\nThe stage is 17.2 meters wide and 19 meters deep and has a mechanic load capacity of 500 kg/m². In the middle of the stage is a turnable and liftable circular platform, around which is a turnable ring platform with an external diameter of 15 meters. There are also 3 hand-operated person trap mechanisms.\n\nSince 1999 the Volksoper Vienna is a 100% subsidiary of the Bundestheater Holding AG (Federal theater holding AG) along with the Vienna State Opera and the Burgtheater (en: (Imperial) Court Theatre). The Bundestheater Holding AG is owned by the Republic of Austria.\nThe Holding also holds 51.1% of the Theaterservice Gmbh, which offers services in design and administrational matters. The remaining 48.9% are shared equally among the three theater houses (16.3% each).\n\nIn 1987, the opera house was used for a scene set in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia (now part of Slovakia), for the James Bond film \"The Living Daylights\", where Timothy Dalton made his debut as Bond near the very beginning of the film, where he first spotted the key female character Kara Milovy (played by Maryam d'Abo). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43201079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43201079", "title": "Vores Compact Touring Series", "text": "Vores Compact Touring Series\n\nThe Vores Compact Touring Series was established in late 2011 when the CRA (Champion Racing Association) decided to drop its compact division. The first race held was in late 2011, it was an exhibition race at Eldora Speedway in Rossburg, Ohio.\n\n2012 was the inaugural year for VCTS. All but one of the races held that year were held at the Winchester Speedway, the other being Eldora Speedway. Ryan Hoffman of Northwestern Indiana was the series' first champion.\n\n2013 would be the second year of the Vores Compact Touring Series. The series would expand its venues to five tracks in 2013: Lucas Oil Raceway at Indianapolis, Winchester Speedway, Baer Field Speedway, Shadybowl Speedway and Gas City I-69 Speedway. Chris Jennings of Indiana would be the 2013 series champion.\n\n2014 marks VCTS's third year of competition. VCTS would expand this year and have a Northern and Southern tour along with \"Challenge Series\" weekends were the North and South would meet at the same venue. VCTS would have 12 different tracks scheduled for 2014. Gary Eaton, Jr. of Ohio would claim the VCTS South championship. Mike Richardson of Valparaiso, Indiana would be the North series champion. And Todd Metz, Jr. won the Challenge Series title.\n\nSteve Vore of Vores Welding & Steel in Fort Recovery, Ohio is the series founder. VCTS South Series Director is Dan Redmond. \n"}
{"id": "21825840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21825840", "title": "Winter Formal", "text": "Winter Formal\n\nWinter formal, also called Winterfest, Winter Ball, Sweethearts, Christmas Ball, Snow Ball, Queen of Hearts Dance, or simply Formal, is a dance held by high schools in the United States and Canada. It takes place between homecoming and prom, usually between December and March. At some schools, this dance may supplement or replace a Sadie Hawkins dance. \n\nIt has many of the same characteristics as a prom with a band to play music and catering service.\n\nThis dance is often provided to high school students as a school-sponsored event for the long period between Homecoming in Autumn and prom in May. The influence of Christmas or New Year's Eve formal events and Valentine's Day may pique students' interest in holding their \"own\" dance during this time. \n\nIt is thought in some cases as a \"pre-prom\" dance, and is often not held at the school if the school can afford to hold it elsewhere. It might be held at a catering hall or ballroom facility.\n\nMormal is the equivalent of winter formal or prom for youth in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints or Mormon Church (\"Mormal\" is the Mormon formal). It does not necessarily replace formal at school. This event is most common in California.\n"}
{"id": "56426702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56426702", "title": "World Youth Day 1989", "text": "World Youth Day 1989\n\nWorld Youth Day 1989 was an event organized by the Catholic Church and took place on August 19-20, 1989 in Santiago de Compostela, Spain. It was the first European edition of this bi-tri-ennal event, excluding the two \"zero editions\" held in Rome in 1984 and 1985, and the first time the meeting did not take place on Palm Sunday, but in the middle of summer.\n\nThe logo chosen for the WYD of Santiago consists of a blue circle surrounded by the words \"I am the way, the truth and the life\". The circle is crossed by a yellow stripe covered with shells that ends, at the top right, with a star. The latter is a reference to the legend concerning the discovery of the tomb of St. James; the yellow trail simultaneously represents the \"tail\" of the shooting star, both the streets of the Camino de Santiago, while the shells are the symbol of the pilgrim.\n\nThe hymn composed for the Santiago WYD is titled \"Somos los jovens of 2000\".\n\nMany WYD participants reached the event venue by walking hundreds of kilometers along the Camino de Santiago - famous way of medieval pilgrimage to the sanctuary of Saint James.\n\nFor the first time in Santiago the catecheses were organized (which took place on August 19), on the themes \"Christ is the Way\", \" Christ is the Truth\", \" Christ is the Life\", inspired by the verse of the Gospel of John (John 14,6) chosen as the theme for that edition. Among those responsible for catechesis, Chiara Lubich (founder of the Focolare Movement), Carlo Maria Martini (then Archbishop of Milan), Massimo Camisasca and Antonio Lanfranchi.\n\nThe closing vigil, with the presence of Pope John Paul II, was held at the Monte do Gozo - hill located about five kilometers from the city center.In that place was later raised a monument in memory of both the papal visit and the arrival in the city of St. Francis of Assisi, which took place in the thirteenth century.\n\nThere were a public of 600,000 persons.\n\n"}
