{"id": "37312423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312423", "title": "A Book to Burn", "text": "A Book to Burn\n\nA Book to Burn () is a philosophical work by the late-Ming Dynasty thinker and historian Li Zhi. A critique of the social, philosophical and cultural norms of his time, the book was highly controversial and cemented Li Zhi's reputation as a heretic at the time.\n\nLi Zhi began compiling the book in 1588, while living in a Buddhist monastery. It was first published in 1590 in Macheng, with a foreword by Mei Guozhen.\n\nThe title was chosen by Li Zhi, who was aware that the book would be highly controversial, and that calls for its burning would be inevitable. Indeed, soon after its publication, it incited a vitriolic response from the exponents of Cheng-Zhu orthodoxy, accusing Li of heresy and poisoning minds; this controversy, however, only served to heighten Li Zhi's reputation.\n\nIn 1602, after the imprisonment and suicide of Li Zhi, the book was proscribed and all copies were burned; this ban proceeded even into the Qing Dynasty. Yet, while officially banned, it continued to be printed and distributed in private.\n\nThe book is divided into six chapters; chapters one and two are responses to other books and philosophical works, while chapters three and four are essays on assorted topics. Chapter five deals with the study of history, and the last chapter contains poetic works.\n\nThe book contains Li's defences of the School of Mind, influenced by the teachings of the earlier scholar Wang Yangming, against the Cheng-Zhu school. Among other arguments, it derided the ritual worship of Confucius as superstition, as well as the study of the classics in pursuit of understanding an 'absolute morality'. Instead, Li argued for a more intuitive understanding of virtue and morality, and of giving greater space for individualism, instead of 'taking Confucius' (idea of) right or wrong as the only idea of right or wrong'.\n\nPhillip Grimberg, Dem Feuer geweiht: Das Lishi Fenshu des Li Zhi (1527-1602). Uebersetzung, Analyse, Kommentar. Marburg: 2014, 442pp.\n"}
{"id": "2171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171", "title": "Anti-realism", "text": "Anti-realism\n\nIn analytic philosophy, anti-realism is an epistemological position first articulated by British philosopher Michael Dummett. The term was coined as an argument against a form of realism Dummett saw as 'colorless reductionism'.\n\nIn anti-realism, the truth of a statement rests on its demonstrability through internal logic mechanisms, such as the context principle or intuitionistic logic, in direct opposition to the realist notion that the truth of a statement rests on its correspondence to an external, independent reality. In anti-realism, this external reality is hypothetical and is not assumed.\n\nBecause it encompasses statements containing abstract ideal objects (i.e. mathematical objects), anti-realism may apply to a wide range of philosophic topics, from material objects to the theoretical entities of science, mathematical statement, mental states, events and processes, the past and the future.\n\nMetaphysical anti-realism maintains a skepticism about the physical world, arguing either: 1) that nothing exists outside the mind, or 2) that we would have no access to a mind-independent reality, even if it exists. The latter case often takes the form of a denial of the idea that we can have 'unconceptualised' experiences (see Myth of the Given). Conversely, most realists (specifically, indirect realists) hold that perceptions or sense data are caused by mind-independent objects. But this introduces the possibility of another kind of skepticism: since our understanding of causality is that the same effect can be produced by multiple causes, there is a lack of determinacy about what one is really perceiving, as in the brain in a vat scenario.\n\nThe main alternative to metaphysical anti-realism is metaphysical realism.\n\nOn a more abstract level, model-theoretic anti-realist arguments hold that a given set of symbols in a theory can be mapped onto any number of sets of real-world objects—each set being a \"model\" of the theory—provided the relationship between the objects is the same (compare with symbol grounding.)\n\nIn ancient Greek philosophy, nominalist (anti-realist) doctrines about universals were proposed by the Stoics, especially Chrysippus. In early modern philosophy, conceptualist anti-realist doctrines about universals were proposed by thinkers like René Descartes, John Locke, Baruch Spinoza, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, George Berkeley, and David Hume. In late modern philosophy, anti-realist doctrines about knowledge were proposed by the German idealist Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Hegel was a proponent of what is now called inferentialism: he believed that the ground for the axioms and the foundation for the validity of the inferences are the right consequences and that the axioms do not explain the consequence. Kant and Hegel held conceptualist views about universals. In contemporary philosophy, anti-realism was revived in the form of empirio-criticism, logical positivism, semantic anti-realism and scientific instrumentalism (see below).\n\nThe term \"anti-realism\" was introduced by Michael Dummett in his 1982 paper \"Realism\" in order to re-examine a number of classical philosophical disputes, involving such doctrines as nominalism, Platonic realism, idealism and phenomenalism. The novelty of Dummett's approach consisted in portraying these disputes as analogous to the dispute between intuitionism and Platonism in the philosophy of mathematics.\n\nAccording to intuitionists (anti-realists with respect to mathematical objects), the truth of a mathematical statement consists in our ability to prove it. According to Platonic realists, the truth of a statement is proven in its correspondence to objective reality. Thus, intuitionists are ready to accept a statement of the form \"P or Q\" as true only if we can prove P or if we can prove Q. In particular, we cannot in general claim that \"P or not P\" is true (the law of excluded middle), since in some cases we may not be able to prove the statement \"P\" nor prove the statement \"not P\". Similarly, intuitionists object to the existence property for classical logic, where one can prove formula_1, without being able to produce any term formula_2 of which formula_3 holds.\n\nDummett argues that this notion of truth lies at the bottom of various classical forms of anti-realism, and uses it to re-interpret phenomenalism, claiming that it need not take the form of reductionism.\n\nDummett's writings on anti-realism draw heavily on the later writings of Ludwig Wittgenstein, concerning meaning and rule following, and can be seen as an attempt to integrate central ideas from the \"Philosophical Investigations\" into the constructive tradition of analytic philosophy deriving from Gottlob Frege.\n\nIn philosophy of science, anti-realism applies chiefly to claims about the non-reality of \"unobservable\" entities such as electrons or genes, which are not detectable with human senses.\n\nOne prominent variety of scientific anti-realism is instrumentalism, which takes a purely agnostic view towards the existence of unobservable entities, in which the unobservable entity X serves as an instrument to aid in the success of theory Y does not require proof for the existence or non-existence of X.\n\nSome scientific anti-realists, however, deny that unobservables exist, even as non-truth conditioned instruments.\n\nIn the philosophy of mathematics, realism is the claim that mathematical entities such as 'number' have an observer-independent existence. Empiricism, which associates numbers with concrete physical objects, and Platonism, in which numbers are abstract, non-physical entities, are the preeminent forms of mathematical realism.\n\nThe \"epistemic argument\" against Platonism has been made by Paul Benacerraf and Hartry Field. Platonism posits that mathematical objects are \"abstract\" entities. By general agreement, abstract entities cannot interact causally with physical entities (\"the truth-values of our mathematical assertions depend on facts involving platonic entities that reside in a realm outside of space-time\") Whilst our knowledge of physical objects is based on our ability to perceive them, and therefore to causally interact with them, there is no parallel account of how mathematicians come to have knowledge of abstract objects.\n\nField developed his views into fictionalism. Benacerraf also developed the philosophy of mathematical structuralism, according to which there are no mathematical objects. Nonetheless, some versions of structuralism are compatible with some versions of realism.\n\nAnti-realist arguments hinge on the idea that a satisfactory, naturalistic account of thought processes can be given for mathematical reasoning. One line of defense is to maintain that this is false, so that mathematical reasoning uses some special intuition that involves contact with the Platonic realm, as in the argument given by Sir Roger Penrose.\n\nAnother line of defense is to maintain that abstract objects are relevant to mathematical reasoning in a way that is non causal, and not analogous to perception. This argument is developed by Jerrold Katz in his 2000 book \"Realistic Rationalism\". In this book, he put forward a position called realistic rationalism, which combines metaphysical realism and rationalism.\n\nA more radical defense is to deny the separation of physical world and the platonic world, i.e. the mathematical universe hypothesis (a variety of mathematicism). In that case, a mathematician's knowledge of mathematics is one mathematical object making contact with another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2321", "title": "Area 51", "text": "Area 51\n\nThe United States Air Force facility commonly known as Area 51 is a highly classified remote detachment of Edwards Air Force Base, within the Nevada Test and Training Range. According to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the correct names for the facility are Homey Airport and Groom Lake, though the name \"Area 51\" was used in a CIA document from the Vietnam War. The facility has also been referred to as \"Dreamland\" and \"Paradise Ranch\", among other nicknames. USAF public relations has referred to the facility as \"an operating location near Groom Dry Lake\". The special use airspace around the field is referred to as Restricted Area 4808 North (R-4808N).\n\nThe base's current primary purpose is publicly unknown; however, based on historical evidence, it most likely supports the development and testing of experimental aircraft and weapons systems (black projects). The intense secrecy surrounding the base has made it the frequent subject of conspiracy theories and a central component to unidentified flying object (UFO) folklore. Although the base has never been declared a secret base, all research and occurrences in Area 51 are Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI). On 25 June 2013, following a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request filed in 2005, the CIA publicly acknowledged the existence of the base for the first time, declassifying documents detailing the history and purpose of Area 51.\n\nArea 51 is located in the southern portion of Nevada in the western United States, north-northwest of Las Vegas. Situated at its center, on the southern shore of Groom Lake, is a large military airfield. The site was acquired by the United States Air Force in 1955, primarily for the flight testing of the Lockheed U-2 aircraft. The area around Area 51, including the small town of Rachel on the \"Extraterrestrial Highway\", is a popular tourist destination.\n\nThe original rectangular base of is now part of the so-called \"Groom box\", a rectangular area measuring , of restricted airspace. The area is connected to the internal Nevada Test Site (NTS) road network, with paved roads leading south to Mercury and west to Yucca Flat. Leading northeast from the lake, the wide and well-maintained Groom Lake Road runs through a pass in the Jumbled Hills. The road formerly led to mines in the Groom basin, but has been improved since their closure. Its winding course runs past a security checkpoint, but the restricted area around the base extends further east. After leaving the restricted area, Groom Lake Road descends eastward to the floor of the Tikaboo Valley, passing the dirt-road entrances to several small ranches, before converging with State Route 375, the \"Extraterrestrial Highway\", south of Rachel.\n\nArea 51 shares a border with the Yucca Flat region of the Nevada Test Site, the location of 739 of the 928 nuclear tests conducted by the United States Department of Energy at NTS. The Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository is southwest of Groom Lake.\n\nGroom Lake is a salt flat in Nevada used for runways of the Nellis Bombing Range Test Site airport (KXTA) on the north of the Area 51 USAF military installation. The lake at elevation is approximately from north to south and from east to west at its widest point. Located within the namesake Groom Lake Valley portion of the Tonopah Basin, the lake is south of Rachel, Nevada.\n\nThe origin of the Area 51 name is unclear. The most accepted comes from a grid numbering system of the area by the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC); while Area 51 is not part of this system, it is adjacent to Area 15. Another explanation is that 51 was used because it was unlikely that the AEC would use the number.\n\nLead and silver were discovered in the southern part of the Groom Range in 1864, and the English \"Groome Lead Mines Limited\" company financed the Conception Mines in the 1870s, giving the district its name (nearby mines included Maria, Willow and White Lake). The interests in Groom were acquired by J. B. Osborne and partners and patented in 1876, and his son acquired the interests in the 1890s. Claims were incorporated as two 1916 companies with mining continuing until 1918 and resuming after World War II until the early 1950s.\n\nThe airfield on the Groom Lake site began service in 1942 as Indian Springs Air Force Auxiliary Field, and consisted of two unpaved 5000-foot runways aligned NE/SW, NW/SE .\n\nThe Groom Lake test facility was established in April 1955 by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) for Project AQUATONE, the development of the Lockheed U-2 strategic reconnaissance aircraft.\n\nAs part of the project, the director, Richard M. Bissell, Jr., understood that, given the extreme secrecy enveloping the project, the flight test and pilot training programs could not be conducted at Edwards Air Force Base or Lockheed's Palmdale facility. A search for a suitable testing site for the U-2 was conducted under the same extreme security as the rest of the project.\n\nHe notified Lockheed, who sent an inspection team out to Groom Lake. According to Lockheed's U-2 designer Kelly Johnson: \nThe lakebed made an ideal strip from which they could test aircraft, and the Emigrant Valley's mountain ranges and the NTS perimeter, about north of Las Vegas, protected the test site from visitors. The CIA asked the AEC to acquire the land, designated \"Area 51\" on the map, and add it to the Nevada Test Site.\n\nJohnson named the area \"Paradise Ranch\" to encourage workers to move to a place that the CIA's official history of the U-2 project would later describe as \"the new facility in the middle of nowhere\"; the name became shortened to \"the Ranch\". On 4 May 1955, a survey team arrived at Groom Lake and laid out a , north-south runway on the southwest corner of the lakebed and designated a site for a base support facility. \"The Ranch\", also known as Site II, initially consisted of little more than a few shelters, workshops and trailer homes in which to house its small team. In a little over three months, the base consisted of a single, paved runway, three hangars, a control tower, and rudimentary accommodations for test personnel. The base's few amenities included a movie theatre and volleyball court. Additionally, there was a mess hall, several water wells, and fuel storage tanks. By July 1955, CIA, Air Force, and Lockheed personnel began arriving. The Ranch received its first U-2 delivery on 24 July 1955 from Burbank on a C-124 Globemaster II cargo plane, accompanied by Lockheed technicians on a Douglas DC-3. Regular Military Air Transport Service flights were set up between Area 51 and Lockheed's Burbank, California offices. To preserve secrecy, personnel flew to Nevada on Monday mornings and returned to California on Friday evenings.\n\nProject OXCART established in August 1959 for \"antiradar studies, aerodynamic structural tests, and engineering designs [and] all later work on the\" Lockheed A-12 included testing at Groom Lake, which before improvements for OXCART had inadequate facilities: buildings for only 150 people, a asphalt runway, and limited fuel, hangar, and shop space. Selected for its seclusion and climate, Groom Lake had received a new official name \"Area 51\" when A-12 test facility construction began in September 1960, including a new runway to replace the existing runway (completed by 15 November 1960 with \"expansion joints parallel to the direction of aircraft roll\" to limit vibration.)\n\nFour years of \"Project 51\" construction began on 1 October 1960 by Reynolds Electrical and Engineering Company (REECo) with double-shift construction schedules. The contractor upgraded base facilities and built a new runway (14/32) diagonally across the southwest corner of the lakebed. An Archimedean spiral approximately two miles across was marked on the dry lake so that an A-12 pilot approaching the end of the overrun could abort to the playa instead of plunging the aircraft into the sagebrush. Area 51 pilots called it \"The Hook\". For crosswind landings two unpaved airstrips (runways 9/27 and 03/21) were marked on the dry lakebed.\n\nBy August 1961, construction of the essential facilities was completed (3 surplus Navy hangars were erected on the base's north side—hangars 4, 5, and 6.) A fourth, Hangar 7, was new construction. The original U-2 hangars were converted to maintenance and machine shops. Facilities in the main cantonment area included workshops and buildings for storage and administration, a commissary, control tower, fire station, and housing. The Navy also contributed more than 130 surplus Babbitt duplex housing units for long-term occupancy facilities. Older buildings were repaired, and additional facilities were constructed as necessary. A reservoir pond, surrounded by trees, served as a recreational area one mile north of the base. Other recreational facilities included a gymnasium, movie theatre, and a baseball diamond. A permanent aircraft fuel tank farm was constructed by early 1962 for the special JP-7 fuel required by the A-12. Seven tanks were constructed, with a total capacity of 1,320,000 gallons.\n\nFor the arrival of OXCART; security was enhanced and the small civilian mine in the Groom basin was closed. In January 1962, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) expanded the restricted airspace in the vicinity of Groom Lake. The lakebed became the center of a 600-square-mile addition to restricted area R-4808N.\n\nThe CIA facility received eight USAF F-101 Voodoos for training, two T-33 Shooting Star trainers for proficiency flying, a C-130 Hercules for cargo transport, a U-3A for administrative purposes, a helicopter for search and rescue, and a Cessna 180 for liaison use; and Lockheed provided an F-104 Starfighter for use as a chase plane.\n\nThe first A-12 test aircraft was covertly trucked from Burbank on 26 February 1962, arrived at Groom Lake on 28 February, was assembled, and made its first flight 26 April 1962 when the base had over 1,000 personnel. Initially, all not connected with a test were herded into the mess hall before each takeoff. This was soon dropped as it disrupted activities and was impractical with the large number of flights. The closed airspace above Groom Lake was within the Nellis Air Force Range airspace, and pilots saw the A-12 20–30 times (at least one signed a secrecy agreement.).\n\nGroom was also the site of the first Lockheed D-21 drone test flight on 22 December 1964 (not launched until 5 March 1966). By the end of 1963, nine A-12s were at Area 51, assigned to the CIA operated \"1129th Special Activities Squadron\".\n\nAlthough it was decided on 10 January 1967 to phase out the CIA A-12 program, A-12s at Groom Lake occasionally deployed to Kadena AB, Okinawa, for Project Black Shield in 1967 (the 9 A-12s were stored at Palmdale in June 1968 and the 1129th SAS was inactivated.)\n\nFollowing the loss of Gary Powers' U-2 over the Soviet Union, there were several discussions about using the A-12 OXCART as an unpiloted drone aircraft. Although Kelly Johnson had come to support the idea of drone reconnaissance, he opposed the development of an A-12 drone, contending that the aircraft was too large and complex for such a conversion. However, the Air Force agreed to fund the study of a high-speed, high-altitude drone aircraft in October 1962. The Air Force interest seems to have moved the CIA to take action, the project designated \"Q-12\". By October 1963, the drone's design had been finalized. At the same time, the Q-12 underwent a name change. To separate it from the other A-12-based projects, it was renamed the \"D-21\". (The \"12\" was reversed to \"21\"). \"Tagboard\" was the project's code name.\n\nThe first D-21 was completed in the spring of 1964 by Lockheed. After four more months of checkouts and static tests, the aircraft was shipped to Groom Lake and reassembled. It was to be carried by a two-seat derivative of the A-12, designated the \"M-21\". When the D-21/M-21 reached the launch point, the first step would be to blow off the D-21's inlet and exhaust covers. With the D-21/M-21 at the correct speed and altitude, the LCO would start the ramjet and the other systems of the D-21. \"With the D-21's systems activated and running, and the launch aircraft at the correct point, the M-21 would begin a slight pushover, the LCO would push a final button, and the D-21 would come off the pylon\".\n\nDifficulties were addressed throughout 1964 and 1965 at Groom Lake with various technical issues. Captive flights showed unforeseen aerodynamic difficulties. By late January 1966, more than a year after the first captive flight, everything seemed ready. The first D-21 launch was made on 5 March 1966 with a successful flight, with the D-21 flying 120 miles with limited fuel. A second D-12 flight was successful in April 1966 with the drone flying 1,200 miles, reaching Mach 3.3 and 90,000 feet. An accident on 30 July 1966 with a fully fueled D-21, on a planned checkout flight suffered from a non-start of the drone after its separation, causing it to collide with the M-21 launch aircraft. The two crewmen ejected and landed in the ocean 150 miles offshore. One crew member was picked up by a helicopter, but the other, having survived the aircraft breakup and ejection, drowned when sea water entered his pressure suit. Kelly Johnson personally cancelled the entire program, having had serious doubts from the start of the feasibility. A number of D-21s had already been produced, and rather than scrapping the whole effort, Johnson again proposed to the Air Force that they be launched from a B-52H bomber.\n\nBy late summer of 1967, the modification work to both the D-21 (now designated D-21B) and the B-52Hs were complete. The test program could now resume. The test missions were flown out of Groom Lake, with the actual launches over the Pacific. The first D-21B to be flown was Article 501, the prototype. The first attempt was made on 28 September 1967, and ended in complete failure. As the B-52 was flying toward the launch point, the D-21B fell off the pylon. The B-52H gave a sharp lurch as the drone fell free. The booster fired and was \"quite a sight from the ground\". The failure was traced to a stripped nut on the forward right attachment point on the pylon. Several more tests were made, none of which met with success. However, the fact is that the resumptions of D-21 tests took place against a changing reconnaissance background. The A-12 had finally been allowed to deploy, and the SR-71 was soon to replace it. At the same time, new developments in reconnaissance satellite technology were nearing operation. Up to this point, the limited number of satellites available restricted coverage to the Soviet Union. A new generation of reconnaissance satellites could soon cover targets anywhere in the world. The satellites' resolution would be comparable to that of aircraft, but without the slightest political risk. Time was running out for the Tagboard.\n\nSeveral more test flights, including two over China, were made from Beale AFB, California, in 1969 and 1970, to varying degrees of success. On 15 July 1971, Kelly Johnson received a wire canceling the D-21B program. The remaining drones were transferred by a C-5A and placed in dead storage. The tooling used to build the D-21Bs was ordered destroyed. Like the A-12 Oxcart, the D-21B Tagboard drones remained a Black airplane, even in retirement. Their existence was not suspected until August 1976, when the first group was placed in storage at the Davis-Monthan AFB Military Storage and Disposition Center. A second group arrived in 1977. They were labeled \"GTD-21Bs\" (GT stood for ground training).\n\nDavis-Monthan is an open base, with public tours of the storage area at the time, so the odd-looking drones were soon spotted and photos began appearing in magazines. Speculation about the D-21Bs circulated within aviation circles for years, and it was not until 1982 that details of the Tagboard program were released. However, it was not until 1993 that the B-52/D-21B program was made public. That same year, the surviving D-21Bs were released to museums.\n\nDuring the Cold War, one of the missions carried out by the United States was the test and evaluation of captured Soviet fighter aircraft. Beginning in the late 1960s, and for several decades, Area 51 played host to an assortment of Soviet-built aircraft. Under the HAVE DOUGHNUT, HAVE DRILL and HAVE FERRY programs, the first MiGs flown in the United States were used to evaluate the aircraft in performance, technical, and operational capabilities, pitting the types against U.S. fighters.\n\nThis was not a new mission, as testing of foreign technology by the USAF began during World War II. After the war, testing of acquired foreign technology was performed by the Air Technical Intelligence Center (ATIC, which became very influential during the Korean War), under the direct command of the Air Materiel Control Department. In 1961 ATIC became the Foreign Technology Division (FTD), and was reassigned to Air Force Systems Command. ATIC personnel were sent anywhere where foreign aircraft could be found.\n\nThe focus of Air Force Systems Command limited the use of the fighter as a tool with which to train the front line tactical fighter pilots. Air Force Systems Command recruited its pilots from the Air Force Flight Test Center at Edwards Air Force Base, California, who were usually graduates from various test pilot schools. Tactical Air Command selected its pilots primarily from the ranks of the Weapons School graduates.\n\nIn August 1966, Iraqi Air Force fighter pilot Captain Munir Redfa defected, flying his MiG-21 to Israel after being ordered to attack Iraqi Kurd villages with napalm. His aircraft was transferred to Groom Lake within a month to study. In 1968 the US Air Force and Navy jointly formed a project known as HAVE DOUGHNUT in which Air Force Systems Command, Tactical Air Command, and the U.S. Navy's Air Test and Evaluation Squadron Four (VX-4) flew this acquired Soviet made aircraft in simulated air combat training. Because U.S. possession of the Soviet MiG-21 was, itself, secret, it was tested at Groom Lake. A joint Air Force-Navy team was assembled for a series of dogfight tests.\n\nComparisons between the F-4 and the MiG-21 indicated that, on the surface, they were evenly matched. But air combat was not just about technology. In the final analysis, it was the skill of the man in the cockpit. The HAVE DOUGHNUT tests showed this most strongly. When the Navy or Air Force pilots flew the MiG-21, the results were a draw; the F-4 would win some fights, the MiG-21 would win others. There were no clear advantages. The problem was not with the planes, but with the pilots flying them. The pilots would not fly either plane to its limits. One of the Navy pilots was Marland W. \"Doc\" Townsend, then commander of VF-121, the F-4 training squadron at NAS Miramar. He was an engineer and a Korean War veteran and had flown almost every navy aircraft. When he flew against the MiG-21, he would outmaneuver it every time. The Air Force pilots would not go vertical in the MiG-21. The HAVE DOUGHNUT project officer was Tom Cassidy, a pilot with VX-4, the Navy's Air Development Squadron at Point Mugu. He had been watching as Townsend \"waxed\" the air force MiG-21 pilots. Cassidy climbed into the MiG-21 and went up against Townsend's F-4. This time the result was far different. Cassidy was willing to fight in the vertical, flying the plane to the point where it was buffeting, just above the stall. Cassidy was able to get on the F-4's tail. After the flight, they realized the MiG-21 turned better than the F-4 at lower speeds. The key was for the F-4 to keep its speed up. What had happened in the sky above Groom Lake was remarkable. An F-4 had defeated the MiG-21; the weakness of the Soviet plane had been found. Further test flights confirmed what was learned. It was also clear that the MiG-21 was a formidable enemy. United States pilots would have to fly much better than they had been to beat it. This would require a special school to teach advanced air combat techniques.\n\nOn 12 August 1968, two Syrian air force lieutenants, Walid Adham and Radfan Rifai, took off in a pair of MiG-17Fs on a training mission. They lost their way and, believing they were over Lebanon, landed at the Betzet Landing Field in northern Israel. (One version has it that they were led astray by an Arabic-speaking Israeli). Prior to the end of 1968 these MiG-17s were transferred from Israeli stocks and added to the Area 51 test fleet. The aircraft were given USAF designations and fake serial numbers so that they could be identified in DOD standard flight logs. As in the earlier program, a small group of Air Force and Navy pilots conducted mock dogfights with the MiG-17s. Selected instructors from the Navy's Top Gun school at NAS Miramar, California, were chosen to fly against the MiGs for familiarization purposes. Very soon, the MiG-17's shortcomings became clear. It had an extremely simple, even crude, control system which lacked the power-boosted controls of American aircraft. The F-4's twin engines were so powerful it could accelerate out of range of the MiG-17's guns in thirty seconds. It was important for the F-4 to keep its distance from the MiG-17. As long as the F-4 was one and a half miles from the MiG-17, it was outside the reach of the Soviet fighter's guns, but the MiG was within reach of the F-4's missiles.\n\nThe data from the HAVE DOUGHNUT and HAVE DRILL tests were provided to the newly formed Top Gun school at NAS Miramar. By 1970, the HAVE DRILL program was expanded; a few selected fleet F-4 crews were given the chance to fight the MiGs. The most important result of Project HAVE DRILL is that no Navy pilot who flew in the project defeated the MiG-17 Fresco in the first engagement. The HAVE DRILL dogfights were by invitation only. The other pilots based at Nellis Air Force Base were not to know about the U.S.-operated MiGs. To prevent any sightings, the airspace above the Groom Lake range was closed. On aeronautical maps, the exercise area was marked in red ink. The forbidden zone became known as \"Red Square\".\n\nDuring the remainder of the Vietnam War, the Navy kill ratio climbed to 8.33 to 1. In contrast, the Air Force rate improved only slightly to 2.83 to 1. The reason for this difference was Top Gun. The Navy had revitalized its air combat training, while the Air Force had stayed stagnant. Most of the Navy MiG kills were by Top Gun graduates.\n\nIn May 1973, Project HAVE IDEA was formed which took over from the older HAVE DOUGHNUT, HAVE FERRY and HAVE DRILL projects and the project was transferred to the Tonopah Test Range Airport. At Tonopah testing of foreign technology aircraft continued and expanded throughout the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nArea 51 also hosted another foreign materiel evaluation program called HAVE GLIB. This involved testing Soviet tracking and missile control radar systems. A complex of actual and replica Soviet-type threat systems began to grow around \"Slater Lake\", a mile northwest of the main base, along with an acquired Soviet \"Barlock\" search radar placed at Tonopah Air Force Station. They were arranged to simulate a Soviet-style air defense complex.\n\nThe Air Force began funding improvements to Area 51 in 1977 under project SCORE EVENT. In 1979, the CIA transferred jurisdiction of the Area 51 site to the Air Force Flight Test Center at Edwards AFB, California. Mr. Sam Mitchell, the last CIA commander of Area 51, relinquished command to USAF Lt. Col. Larry D. McClain.\n\nThe Lockheed Have Blue prototype stealth fighter (a smaller proof-of-concept model of the F-117 Nighthawk) first flew at Groom in December 1977.\n\nIn 1978, the Air Force awarded a full-scale development contract for the F-117 to Lockheed Corporation's Advanced Development Projects. On 17 January 1981 the Lockheed test team at Area 51 accepted delivery of the first full Scale Development (FSD) prototype \"79–780\", designated YF-117A. At 6:05 am on 18 June 1981 Lockheed Skunk Works test pilot Hal Farley lifted the nose of YF-117A \"79–780\"' off the runway of Area 51.\n\nMeanwhile, Tactical Air Command (TAC) decided to set up a group-level organization to guide the F-117A to an initial operating capability. That organization became the 4450th Tactical Group (Initially designated \"A Unit\"), which officially activated on 15 October 1979 at Nellis AFB, Nevada, although the group was physically located at Area 51. The 4450th TG also operated the A-7D Corsair II as a surrogate trainer for the F-117A, and these operations continued until 15 October 1982 under the guise of an avionics test mission.\n\nFlying squadrons of the 4450th TG were the 4450th Tactical Squadron (Initially designated \"I Unit\") activated on 11 June 1981, and 4451st Tactical Squadron (Initially designated \"P Unit\") on 15 January 1983. The 4450th TS, stationed at Area 51, was the first F-117A squadron, while the 4451st TS was stationed at Nellis AFB and was equipped with A-7D Corsair IIs painted in a dark motif, tail coded \"LV\". Lockheed test pilots put the YF-117 through its early paces. A-7Ds was used for pilot training before any F-117A's had been delivered by Lockheed to Area 51, later the A-7D's were used for F-117A chase testing and other weapon tests at the Nellis Range.\n\n15 October 1982 is important to the program because on that date Major Alton C. Whitley, Jr. became the first USAF 4450th TG pilot to fly the F-117A.\n\nAlthough ideal for testing, Area 51 was not a suitable location for an operational group, so a new covert base had to be established for F-117 operations.\nTonopah Test Range Airport was selected for operations of the first USAF F-117 unit, the 4450th Tactical Group (TG). From October 1979, the Tonopah Airport base was reconstructed and expanded. The 6,000 ft runway was lengthened to 10,000 ft. Taxiways, a concrete apron, a large maintenance hangar, and a propane storage tank were added.\n\nBy early 1982, four more YF-117As were operating at the southern end of the base, known as the \"Southend\" or \"Baja Groom Lake\". After finding a large scorpion in their offices, the testing team (Designated \"R Unit\") adopted it as their mascot and dubbed themselves the \"Baja Scorpions\". Testing of a series of ultra-secret prototypes continued at Area 51 until mid-1981, when testing transitioned to the initial production of F-117 stealth fighters. The F-117s were moved to and from Area 51 by C-5 during darkness to maintain security. The aircraft were defueled, disassembled, cradled, and then loaded aboard the C-5 at night, flown to Lockheed, and unloaded at night before reassembly and flight testing. Groom performed radar profiling, F-117 weapons testing, and training of the first group of frontline USAF F-117 pilots.\n\nWhile the \"Baja Scorpions\" were working on the F-117, there was also another group at work in secrecy, known as \"the Whalers\" working on Tacit Blue. A fly-by-wire technology demonstration aircraft with curved surfaces and composite material, to evade radar, it was a prototype, and never went into production. Nevertheless, this strange-looking aircraft was responsible for many of the stealth technology advances that were used on several other aircraft designs, and had a direct influence on the B-2; with first flight of Tacit Blue being performed on 5 February 1982, by Northrop Grumman test pilot, Richard G. Thomas.\n\nProduction FSD airframes from Lockheed were shipped to Area 51 for acceptance testing. As the Baja Scorpions tested the aircraft with functional check flights and L.O. verification, the operational airplanes were then transferred to the 4450th TG.\n\nOn 17 May 1982, the move of the 4450th TG from Groom Lake to Tonopah was initiated, with the final components of the move completed in early 1983. Production FSD airframes from Lockheed were shipped to Area 51 for acceptance testing. As the Baja Scorpions tested the aircraft with functional check flights and L.O. verification, the operational airplanes were then transferred to the 4450th TG at Tonopah.\nThe R-Unit was inactivated on 30 May 1989. Upon inactivation, the unit was reformed as Detachment 1, 57th Fighter Weapons Wing (FWW). In 1990 the last F-117A (\"843\") was delivered from Lockheed. After completion of acceptance flights at Area 51 of this last new F-117A aircraft, the flight test squadron continued flight test duties of refurbished aircraft after modifications by Lockheed. In February/March 1992 the test unit moved from Area 51 to the USAF Palmdale Plant 42 and was integrated with the Air Force Systems Command 6510th Test Squadron. Some testing, especially RCS verification and other classified activity was still conducted at Area 51 throughout the operational lifetime of the F-117. The recently inactivated (2008) 410th Flight Test Squadron traces its roots, if not its formal lineage to the 4450th TG R-unit.\n\nSince the F-117 became operational in 1983, operations at Groom Lake have continued. The base and its associated runway system were expanded, including expansion of housing and support facilities. In 1995, the federal government expanded the exclusionary area around the base to include nearby mountains that had hitherto afforded the only decent overlook of the base, prohibiting access to of land formerly administered by the Bureau of Land Management. On 22 October 2015 a federal judge signed an order giving land that belonged to a Nevada family since the 1870s to the United States Air Force for expanding Area 51. According to the judge, the land that overlooked the base was taken to address security and safety concerns connected with their training and testing.\n\nThe amount of information the United States government has been willing to provide regarding Area 51 has generally been minimal. The area surrounding the lake is permanently off-limits to both civilian and normal military air traffic. Security clearances are checked regularly; cameras and weaponry are not allowed. Even military pilots training in the NAFR risk disciplinary action if they stray into the exclusionary \"box\" surrounding Groom's airspace. Surveillance is supplemented using buried motion sensors. Area 51 is a common destination for Janet, the \"de facto\" name of a small fleet of passenger aircraft operated on behalf of the United States Air Force to transport military personnel, primarily from McCarran International Airport.\n\nThe USGS topographic map for the area only shows the long-disused Groom Mine. A civil aviation chart published by the Nevada Department of Transportation shows a large restricted area, defined as part of the Nellis restricted airspace. The National Atlas page showing federal lands in Nevada shows the area as lying within the Nellis Air Force Base. Higher resolution (and more recent) images from other satellite imagery providers (including Russian providers and the IKONOS) are commercially available. These show the runway markings, base facilities, aircraft, and vehicles.\n\nWhen documents that mention the Nevada Test Site (NTS) and operations at Groom are declassified, mentions of Area 51 and Groom Lake are routinely redacted. One exception is a 1967 memo from CIA director Richard Helms regarding the deployment of three OXCART aircraft from Groom to Kadena Air Base to perform reconnaissance over North Vietnam. Although most mentions of OXCART's home base are redacted in this document, as is a map showing the aircraft's route from there to Okinawa, the redactor appears to have missed one mention: page 15 (page 17 in the PDF), section No. 2 ends \"Three OXCART aircraft and the necessary task force personnel will be deployed from Area 51 to Kadena.\"\n\nOn 25 June 2013, CIA released an official history of the U-2 and OXCART projects that officially acknowledged the existence of Area 51. The release was in response to a Freedom of Information Act request submitted in 2005 by Jeffrey T. Richelson of George Washington University's National Security Archive, and contain numerous references to Area 51 and Groom Lake, along with a map of the area.\n\nIn 1994, five unnamed civilian contractors and the widows of contractors Walter Kasza and Robert Frost sued the USAF and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Their suit, in which they were represented by George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley, alleged they had been present when large quantities of unknown chemicals had been burned in open pits and trenches at Groom. Biopsies taken from the complainants were analyzed by Rutgers University biochemists, who found high levels of dioxin, dibenzofuran, and trichloroethylene in their body fat. The complainants alleged they had sustained skin, liver, and respiratory injuries due to their work at Groom, and that this had contributed to the deaths of Frost and Kasza. The suit sought compensation for the injuries they had sustained, claiming the USAF had illegally handled toxic materials, and that the EPA had failed in its duty to enforce the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (which governs handling of dangerous materials). They also sought detailed information about the chemicals to which they were allegedly exposed, hoping this would facilitate the medical treatment of survivors. Congressman Lee H. Hamilton, former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, told \"60 Minutes\" reporter Lesley Stahl, \"The Air Force is classifying all information about Area 51 in order to protect themselves from a lawsuit.\"\n\nCiting the State Secrets Privilege, the government petitioned trial judge U.S. District Judge Philip Pro (of the United States District Court for the District of Nevada in Las Vegas) to disallow disclosure of classified documents or examination of secret witnesses, alleging this would expose classified information and threaten national security. When Judge Pro rejected the government's argument, President Bill Clinton issued a Presidential Determination, exempting what it called, \"The Air Force's Operating Location Near Groom Lake, Nevada\" from environmental disclosure laws. Consequently, Pro dismissed the suit due to lack of evidence. Turley appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, on the grounds that the government was abusing its power to classify material. Secretary of the Air Force Sheila E. Widnall filed a brief that stated that disclosures of the materials present in the air and water near Groom \"can reveal military operational capabilities or the nature and scope of classified operations.\" The Ninth Circuit rejected Turley's appeal, and the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear it, putting an end to the complainants' case.\n\nThe President continues to annually issue a determination continuing the Groom exception. This, and similarly tacit wording used in other government communications, is the only formal recognition the U.S. Government has ever given that Groom Lake is more than simply another part of the Nellis complex.\n\nAn unclassified memo on the safe handling of F-117 Nighthawk material was posted on an Air Force web site in 2005. This discussed the same materials for which the complainants had requested information (information the government had claimed was classified). The memo was removed shortly after journalists became aware of it.\n\nIn December 2007, airline pilots noticed that the base had appeared in their aircraft navigation systems' latest Jeppesen database revision with the ICAO airport identifier code of KXTA and listed as \"Homey Airport\". The probably inadvertent release of the airport data led to advice by the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA) that student pilots should be explicitly warned about KXTA, not to consider it as a waypoint or destination for any flight even though it now appears in public navigation databases.\n\nThe perimeter of the base is marked out by orange posts and patrolled by guards in white pickup trucks and camouflage fatigues. The guards are popularly referred to as “camo dudes” by enthusiasts. The guards will not answer questions about their employers; however, according to the New York Daily News, there are indications they are employed through a contractor such as AECOM. Signage around the base perimeter advises that deadly force is authorized against trespassers.\n\nTechnology is also heavily used to maintain the border of the base; this includes CCTV cameras and motion detectors. Some of these motion detectors are placed some distance away from the base on public land to notify guards of people approaching.\n\nIn January 2006, space historian Dwayne A. Day published an article in online aerospace magazine \"The Space Review\" titled \"Astronauts and Area 51: the Skylab Incident\". The article was based on a memo written in 1974 to CIA director William Colby by an unknown CIA official. The memo reported that astronauts on board Skylab 4 had, as part of a larger program, inadvertently photographed a location of which the memo said:\n\nAlthough the name of the location was obscured, the context led Day to believe that the subject was Groom Lake. As Day noted:\n\nThe memo details debate between federal agencies regarding whether the images should be classified, with Department of Defense agencies arguing that it should, and NASA and the State Department arguing against classification. The memo itself questions the legality of unclassified images to be retroactively classified.\n\nRemarks on the memo, handwritten apparently by DCI (Director of Central Intelligence) Colby himself, read:\n\nThe declassified documents do not disclose the outcome of discussions regarding the Skylab imagery. The behind-the-scenes debate proved moot as the photograph appeared in the Federal Government's Archive of Satellite Imagery along with the remaining Skylab 4 photographs, with no record of anyone noticing until Day identified it in 2007.\n\nOther satellite imagery is also available, including images that show what appears to be F-16 Fighting Falcon aircraft stationed on the base.\n\nIts secretive nature and undoubted connection to classified aircraft research, together with reports of unusual phenomena, have led Area 51 to become a focus of modern UFO and other conspiracy theories. Some of the activities mentioned in such theories at Area 51 include:\n\nMany of the hypotheses concern underground facilities at Groom or at Papoose Lake (also known as \"S-4 location\"), south, and include claims of a transcontinental underground railroad system, a disappearing airstrip (nicknamed the \"Cheshire Airstrip\", after Lewis Carroll's Cheshire cat) which briefly appears when water is sprayed onto its camouflaged asphalt, and engineering based on alien technology. Publicly available satellite imagery, however, reveals clearly visible landing strips at Groom Dry Lake, but not at Papoose Lake.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, civilian aircraft flew under 20,000 feet while military aircraft flew under 40,000 feet. Once the U-2 began flying at above 60,000 feet, an unexpected side effect was an increasing number of UFO sighting reports. Sightings occurred most often during early evenings hours, when airline pilots flying west saw the U-2's silver wings reflect the setting sun, giving the aircraft a \"fiery\" appearance. Many sighting reports came to the Air Force's Project Blue Book, which investigated UFO sightings, through air-traffic controllers and letters to the government. The project checked U-2 and later OXCART flight records to eliminate the majority of UFO reports it received during the late 1950s and 1960s, although it could not reveal to the letter writers the truth behind what they saw. Similarly, veterans of experimental projects such as OXCART and NERVA at Area 51 agree that their work (including 2,850 OXCART test flights alone) inadvertently prompted many of the UFO sightings and other rumors:\nThey believe that the rumors helped maintain secrecy over Area 51's actual operations. While the veterans deny the existence of a vast underground railroad system, many of Area 51's operations did (and presumably still do) occur underground.\n\nSeveral people have claimed knowledge of events supporting Area 51 conspiracy theories. These have included Bob Lazar, who claimed in 1989 that he had worked at Area 51's \"Sector Four (S-4)\", said to be located underground inside the Papoose Range near Papoose Lake. Lazar has stated he was contracted to work with alien spacecraft that the U.S. government had in its possession.\n\nSimilarly, the 1996 documentary \"Dreamland\" directed by Bruce Burgess included an interview with a 71-year-old mechanical engineer who claimed to be a former employee at Area 51 during the 1950s. His claims included that he had worked on a \"flying disc simulator\" which had been based on a disc originating from a crashed extraterrestrial craft and was used to train US pilots. He also claimed to have worked with an extraterrestrial being named \"J-Rod\" and described as a \"telepathic translator\".\n\nIn 2004, Dan Burisch (pseudonym of Dan Crain) claimed to have worked on cloning alien viruses at Area 51, also alongside the alien named \"J-Rod\". Burisch's scholarly credentials are the subject of much debate, as he was apparently working as a Las Vegas parole officer in 1989 while also earning a PhD at State University of New York (SUNY).\n\nNovels, films, television programs, and other fictional portrayals of Area 51 describe it—or a fictional counterpart—as a haven for extraterrestrials, time travel, and sinister conspiracies, often linking it with the Roswell UFO incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12657017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12657017", "title": "Behind the Looking Glass", "text": "Behind the Looking Glass\n\nBehind the Looking Glass () (Newcastle upon Tyne, UK: Cambridge Scholars Publishing), by Sherry L. Ackerman , addresses the contemporary deconstruction of the Carroll Myth . The book offers an examination of the nineteenth century Neoplatonic Revival in Great Britain., with special emphasis upon its influence on the writings of Lewis Carroll. Conciliatory points between revived Neoplatonism, theosophy and spiritualism are identified.\n\n"}
{"id": "1412857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1412857", "title": "Black Guerrilla Family", "text": "Black Guerrilla Family\n\nThe Black Guerilla Family, or BGF (also known as the Black Family or the Black Vanguard) is an African-American prison and street gang founded in 1966 by George Jackson, George “Big Jake” Lewis, and W. L. Nolen while they were incarcerated at San Quentin State Prison in Marin County, California.\n\nInspired by Marcus Garvey, the Black Guerilla Family (BGF) was characterized as an ideological African-American Marxist Leninist revolutionary organization composed of prisoners. It was founded with the stated goals of eradicating racism, maintaining dignity in prison, and overthrowing the United States government.\n\nThe Black Guerrilla Family was founded by George Jackson in San Quentin State Prison during the Black Power movement. The group later became a recognizable organized crime force in the United States.\n\nOn August 22, 1989, co-founder and leader of the Black Panther Party for Self Defense, Huey P. Newton was fatally shot outside 1456 9th St in West Oakland by 24-year-old Black Guerilla Family member, Tyrone Robinson. Relations between Newton and factions within the Black Guerilla Family had been strained for nearly two decades. Former Black Panther Party members who became BGF members in jail had become disenchanted with Newton for his perceived abandonment of imprisoned Black Panther members and allegations of Newton's fratricide within the party. In his book, \"Shadow of the Panther\", Hugh Pearson alleges that Newton was addicted to crack cocaine, and his extortion of local BGF drug dealers to obtain free drugs added to their animosity.\n\nRobinson was convicted of the murder in August 1991 and sentenced to 32 years for the crime.\n\nIn 1979, former BGF lawyer Fay Stender was shot five times by recently paroled Black Guerilla Family member Edward Glenn Brooks, for what Brooks said was Stender’s betrayal of George Jackson. Brooks forced Stender to state: \"I, Fay Stender, admit I betrayed George Jackson and the prison movement when they needed me most\" just before he shot her. Stender was left paralyzed below the waist and in constant pain by the assault and committed suicide in Hong Kong shortly after she testified against Brooks.\n\nBaltimore police stated that the Black Guerrilla Family, the Bloods, and the Crips were \"teaming up\" to target police officers. Later, however, leaders of both the Bloods and the Crips denied the allegations, released a video statement asking for calm and peaceful protest in the area, and joined with police and clergy to enforce the curfew. At one occasion, gang members helped to prevent a riot at the Security Square Mall by dispersing attempted rioters. On other occasions, rival gang members helped each other to protect black-owned businesses, black children, and reporters, diverting rioters to Chinese- and Arab-owned businesses instead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37768888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37768888", "title": "Böckenförde dilemma", "text": "Böckenförde dilemma\n\nThe Böckenförde Dilemma () is a problem (dilemma), which claims that in secular states there are obstacles to creation of social capital.\n\nThe dilemma is named after German constitutional judge Ernst-Wolfgang Böckenförde.\n\nBöckenförde wrote that:\n\nIn a feudal state the king represents the ultimate power based on the divine right doctrine, the legitimacy of king's rule is transcendentally justified. In a republic there is no generally valid notion of sovereign, although in theory the people have sovereignty (popular sovereignty). But according to constitution the people hand over to some extent their sovereignty or government authority to state leaders and parliaments. In election coverage formulations like \"the sovereign has decided\" are used. The Böckenförde Dilemma alludes to the fact that in a democracy the legitimacy of the government is justified \"from below\" in contrast to absolutism. While the absolutist state demands loyalty from its citizens and through this loyalty can exercise its rule, the democratic state relies on democratic convictions of its citizens and can not enforce those convictions itself.\n\nThis leads to difficulties in answering the question of how a democratically constituted society can secure its survival and defend itself against threats. Böckenförde draws attention to the paradox that the state in the attempt to defend democracy with \"the means of legal coercion and decrees from authority\" would itself become a dictatorship because it would infringe upon the idea of people as sovereign.\n\nGerhard Czermak writes that Böckenförde is \"fundamentally misunderstood when not instrumentalized\" when it is concluded from his dilemma that \"the state should promote churches and religious communities as sources of virtue in particular... He (Böckenförde) speaks of adventure and points to very different forces acting in society. He means that all groups with their own, also moral, worldview contribute to integration of a part of society.\"“\n\nIn two interviews in 2009 and 2010 Böckenförde answered the critique that he had exaggerated the ethical force of religion: \"This criticism misses the context in which I made this statement in 1964. Back then I was trying to explain to Catholics the origin of the secular, that is worldly, no longer religious state and dissolve their scepticism of it. This had happened before 1965 when at the end of the Second Vatican Council the Roman Catholic Church for the first time completely recognized the concept of religious freedom. In the face of this scepticism I urged Catholics to accept this state and engage in it, among other things with the argument that the state has to rely on their ethical shaping force.\"\n\nIn 2010 Böckenförde clarified it as follows: \"To conceive of such a state the liberal order needs a unifying ethos, a \"sense of community\" among those who live in this state. The question then becomes: what is creating this ethos, which can neither be enforced by the state nor compelled by a sovereign? One can say: first the common culture. But what are the elements and factors of that culture? Then indeed we are dealing with its sources such as Christianity, Enlightenment and humanism. But not automatically any religion.\"\n\nA secular version of this thought one can find already in Aristotle: that the virtue of a state is founded on the virtue of its citizens and that it rests on their disposition, habit and reason - which is also reflected in the famous quote of Joseph de Maistre that every nation gets the government it deserves. Therefore political education becomes a necessary condition for existence and an essential task (however hard it is to ensure institutionally) of the good political order.\n\nIn this context the debate over changing values is worth noting. In the tradition of cultural pessimism Elisabeth Noelle-Neumann believes that since the 60's an uninterrupted decline in values has taken place. The erosion of \"civic virtues\" such as sense of community and pride in work as well as declining attendance in churches and shrinking religious engagement have been noted as symptoms. According to Helmut Klages instead of a decay of values what is happening is a synthesis of old and new values. Ronald Inglehart postulates a change from material to non-material values that will ultimately strengthen democracy: he believes more cooperation and more freedom will result from this change.\n\nGerhard Himmelman points out that the sociologists countered the debate about a decline in values with the argument that \"the modern social regulatory mechanisms and the democratic procedures serve as foundations of social integration\". Instead of appealing, among other things, to the communitarianism, the public discourse, the communication free from domination (Jürgen Habermas) creates out of itself (\"Selbstschöpfungsprozess\") the values and behaviors (democratic virtues), that the liberal state needs to exist and survive. Jürgen Habermas also sees a risk that runaway modernization of society undermines the democratic layer and destroys the kind of solidarity on which the democratic state relies, without being able to enforce it legally,\n\nMichael Haus also rejects the Böckenförde thesis as unfounded. From Böckenförde's premise that the modern democratic state was created under the influence of the Christian religion, it does not necessarily follow that the society of \"today\" is dependent on religion as a foundation. Instead a civic consensus could also rest on binding commonalities such as shared interests, interdependencies, dependencies, opportunities for cooperation, a common history or common historical lessons.\n\nAxel Montenbruck follows Böckenförde's approach. But answering Böckenförde's call for \"binding ethos\" Montenbruck introduces the western secular ideas of civil religion that goes back to Rousseau: \"The solution to this dilemma can only be found on an even higher level, such as that of the preambles. The people needs to create aside from the state also its own \"substitute religion of internalized values and principles\", to which it must then submit. Indeed, the nations possess these \"substitute religions\" as evidenced by preambles to their constitutions etc. But they find an understandable difficulty speaking again of religion, even if only of civil religion.\"\n\nSince the 1990s, this idea has been taken up and modified by Paul Kirchhof and related to demographic developments.\n\nThe Böckenförde dilemma stands at the \"center of liberal conservatism\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15741056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15741056", "title": "Cambridge Buddhist Association", "text": "Cambridge Buddhist Association\n\nThe Cambridge Buddhist Association was informally founded in 1957 when D.T. Suzuki moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts and befriended John and Elsie Mitchell, who ran a vast library of books on Buddhism and held zazen for various practitioners. The institution was incorporated in 1959 and remains active. In 1979 Maurine Stuart, a Rinzai rōshi, became President of the organization, and several influential Buddhist teachers in the United States have been members.\n\nThe Cambridge Buddhist Association ceased to offer a place of practice in September 2011, when the property that housed the Zendo was sold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13475010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13475010", "title": "Chithalai Chathanar", "text": "Chithalai Chathanar\n\nSatthanar or Chithalai Satthanar (, \"cītalai cāttanār\") was the Tamil poet who composed the epic Manimekalai. A total of 11 verses of the Sangam literature have been attributed to Satthanar, including verse 10 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\nPronounced \"Sa-tha-naar,\" the name is derived from (, \"sāttu\") meaning Buddhist monk. Applying this principle to the name Maturai Kulavāṇikan Cāttan, the author of Manimekalai, we see that the two appellations Maturai and Kulavanikan were prefixed to his name in order to distinguish him from another poet of Maturai with the same name and from a third who lived elsewhere. Several examples could be cited of this system of nomenclature which prevailed during the early days.\n\nSatthanar hailed from a place known as Seerthandalai, later came to be known as Seethalai. He was a grain merchant at Madurai and hence came to be called \"Koolavanigan\". He was a contemporary of Cheran Senguttuvan and was believed to have practiced Buddhism. He was sung in praise of the Pandyan king Chittira Maadatthu Thunjiya Nanmaran in the Sangam work of Purananuru.\n\nVaiyapuri Pillai sees him along with Ilango Adigal as developing two divergent strands of the \"Chilampu\" legend that forms the basis for both Cilapatikaram and Manimekalai.\nHe is seen as an expert in both orthodox and heterodox systems of Indian philosophy and as an advocate of Buddhist philosophy.\nIt is seen that Maṇimekhalai was written after the Tirukkural was composed, because there are two verses from the Tirukkural quoted in Manimekalai.\n\nSatthanar composed the Manimekalai and has authored 11 Sangam verses, including 3 in Natrinai, 5 in Agananuru, and 1 each in Kurunthogai, Purananuru, and Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\n"}
{"id": "49123438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49123438", "title": "Christian interpolation", "text": "Christian interpolation\n\nChristian interpolation is a subsidiary category of scribal interpolation in manuscript transmission. In textual criticism the term generally refers to the specific phenomena of textual insertion and textual damage to Jewish sources text during Christian scribal transmission, but may also refer to possible interpolation in secular Roman texts, such as the case of Tacitus on Christ.\n\nNotable disputed examples in the works of Josephus include Josephus' sections on John the Baptist, which is widely accepted, and on Jesus of Nazareth, which is widely regarded as at best damaged.\n\nNotable examples among the body of texts known as Old Testament pseudepigrapha include the disputed authenticity of Similitudes of Enoch and 4 Ezra which in the form transmitted by Christian scribal traditions contain arguably later Christian understanding of terms such as Son of Man. Other texts suffering significant Christian interpolation include the Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs, the Sibylline Oracles and so on.\n"}
{"id": "31485180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31485180", "title": "Critici sacri", "text": "Critici sacri\n\nCritici sacri was a compilation of Latin biblical commentaries published in London from 1660, edited by John Pearson. The publisher was Cornelius Bee. The work appeared in nine volumes, and collected numerous authors, both Protestant and Catholic, of early modern critical work on the Bible. It was intended to complement Brian Walton's \"Polyglot Bible\", and set off a series of subsequent related publications.\n\nThe original work, while influential (particularly in making the notes of Grotius widely available), was not a connected Bible commentary, and was found to be long-winded, as well as scanty in other parts. Later publications attempted to address these shortcomings.\n\nThe original full title was \"Critici Sacri, sive Doctissimorum Virorum in SS. Biblia Annotationes et Tractatus\", and it appeared in nine volumes starting in 1660. The commentary project was launched by Cornelius Bee, with the main editor being John Pearson, supported by Anthony Scattergood and Francis Gouldman, as well as Pearson's brother Richard. Bee was a bookseller in Little Britain, London. He suffered major losses in the 1666 Great Fire.\n\nThe \"Synopsis criticorum\" was a work by Matthew Poole, in five volumes, condensing the \"Critici sacri\", and adding further authors. There was a 1684 edition by Johann Leusden; also editions by J. H. Maius (1679), and J. G. Pritz (Pritius) (1712).\n\nThere had already been a pioneer complete Bible commentary in English, the \"Annotations upon all the Books of the Old and New Testament\" sponsored by the Westminster Assembly. Prompted by William Lloyd, Poole began his compilation in 1666. The prospectus of Poole's work bore the names of eight bishops (headed by Morley and Hacket) and five continental scholars, besides other divines. Simon Patrick, John Tillotson, and Edward Stillingfleet, with four laymen, acted as trustees of the subscription money. A patent for the work was obtained on 14 October 1667.\nPoole had assistance from John Lightfoot and Matthew Robinson.\n\nThe first volume was ready for the press, when difficulties were raised by Cornelius Bee, who accused Poole of invading his own patent. After pamphlets had been written and legal opinions taken, the matter was referred to Henry Pierrepont, 1st Marquess of Dorchester, and Arthur Annesley, 1st Earl of Anglesey, who decided in Poole's favour; Bee's name appears (1669) among the publishers of the \"Synopsis\". The style was crisp notes, including rabbinical sources and Roman Catholic commentators.\n\nAn expanded edition was produced in Amsterdam from 1698 by a Dutch editorial group, credited as: Hendrick Boom, the widow of Dirk Boom, Johannes Janssonius van Waesberge, Gillis Janssonius van Waesberge, Gerardus Borstius, Abraham van Someren, Joannes Wolters, and Willem van de Water.\n\nThe authors included in this collection are selectively listed by Adam Clarke:\n\n\nUnder the full title \"Thesaurus theologico-philologicus sive sylloge dissertationum elegantiorum ad selectiora et illustriora Veteris et Novi Testamenti\" two further supplementary volumes were published in Amsterdam in 1701. These were followed up in 1732 by two further volumes of the \"Thesaurus novus theologico-philologicus\"; these were edited by Theodor Hase and Conrad Iken.\n"}
{"id": "29628839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29628839", "title": "Daniel Mills (biologist)", "text": "Daniel Mills (biologist)\n\nDaniel Simon Mills, FRCVS (born 21 Aug 1966) is an English biologist and the UK's first Professor of Veterinary Behavioural Medicine based at the University of Lincoln, United Kingdom. He attended St Edmund's College, Ware before studying at the University of Bristol where he received his BVSc degree and completed his Ph.D. degree in animal behaviour from De Montfort University. After some time spent in general practice, he became a Lecturer, Senior Lecturer and Principal Lecturer in animal behaviour at De Montfort University, and subsequently the University of Lincoln, where he has been Head of the Department of Biological Sciences. His research has focused on the assessment of emotion in companion animals and the use of semiochemicals to manage their problem behaviour (pheromonatherapy). \n\nAmong his achievements are becoming the first person within the UK to be recognized as a specialist in veterinary behavioural medicine by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons. He is also a member of the Companion Animal Welfare Council. Among his recognised practical achievements he has developed the Lincoln stable mirror to assist horses with isolation problems. and validated the successful use of animal pheromones to control badly behaved pets. In 2012 he appeared on the Horizon (BBC TV series) programme: the Secret Life of the Dog and an episode of Bang Goes the Theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3564921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3564921", "title": "Desmond Clarke", "text": "Desmond Clarke\n\nDesmond M. Clarke (17 January 1942 – 17 September 2016) was an author and professor of philosophy at University College Cork, in Cork, Ireland. His research interests lay predominantly in the 17th century, on such topics as the history of philosophy and theories of science - with a specific interest in the writings of René Descartes, as well as contemporary church/state relations, human rights, and nationalism. He was co-editor of the Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy series, and he has translated and written an introduction for the Penguin edition of Descartes' \"Meditations on First Philosophy\". He retired from his position as Professor of Philosophy in 2006.\n\nClarke was the founder and a general editor of \"Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy\" – 76 volumes have been published with new translations of non-English texts from ancient Greek, Latin, Arabic, Hebrew, French, Italian and German. He died on 17 September 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "3888928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3888928", "title": "Dick de Jongh", "text": "Dick de Jongh\n\nDick Herman Jacobus de Jongh (born 19 October 1939, Enschede) is a Dutch logician and mathematician and a retired professor at the University of Amsterdam.\nHe received his PhD degree in 1968 from the University of Wisconsin–Madison under supervision of Stephen Kleene with a dissertation entitled \"Investigations on the Intuitionistic Propositional Calculus\". De Jongh is mostly known for his work on proof theory, provability logic and intuitionistic logic. De Jongh is a member of the group collectively publishing under the pseudonym L. T. F. Gamut. In 2004, on the occasion of his retirement, the Institute for Logic, Language and Computation at the University of Amsterdam published a festschrift in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2948966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2948966", "title": "Edmundo O'Gorman", "text": "Edmundo O'Gorman\n\nEdmundo O'Gorman O'Gorman (24 November 1906 in Mexico City – 28 September 1995 in Mexico City) was a Mexican writer, historian and philosopher. He is considered as being among the earlier and most influential applicants of historical revisionism to commonly held narratives regarding the Spanish colonial period in Latin America.\n\nO'Gorman was born in Coyoacán, in the southern part of Mexico City. He was the son of painter and mining engineer Cecil Crawford O'Gorman, an Irishman who emigrated to Mexico in 1895, and the great-great-nephew of the first British consul to Mexico City, Charles O'Gorman, who later married a Mexican citizen. He was the younger brother of celebrated architect and painter Juan O'Gorman.\n\nHe graduated with a degree in Law (1928) from the Escuela Libre de Derecho. In 1940 he began lecturing in the Philosophy faculty of the Mexico City College. In 1948 he obtained a Masters in Philosophy and in 1951 he completed his doctorate in History with \"summa cum laude\" honorific distinction from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM). While at UNAM, he was at the university's Faculty of Philosophy and Letters, and a researcher at the university's Institute of Historical Research. During his time at UNAM, O'Gorman met and developed relationships with distinguished Mexican intellectuals and Spanish refugees, such as José Gaos, who would greatly influence his later works.\n\nO'Gorman also lectured at the Universidad Iberoamericana.\n\nBetween 1938 and 1952, O'Gorman worked for the Mexican General National Archive. He became a member of the Mexican Academy of the Spanish Language in 1969 and the Mexican Academy of the Corresponding History of the Real of Madrid, corporation of which he became of director of from 1972 to 1987.\n\nHe resigned after disagreements over concepts such as the \"discovery of America\", \"encounter between two worlds\", \"cultural fusion\" (or \"natural mixing\"), names he rejected and instead preferred the terms \"empowerment\", \"domination\" and others more according with history.\n\nO'Gorman was the author of several historical texts between 1951 and 1986. O'Gorman published his first works and studies in the \"Alcancía\" along with his close friend Justino Fernández.\n\nHe was a great admirer of authors such as José Ortega y Gasset, Wilheim Dilthey, Benedeto Croce, Martin Heidegger, among other history writers who kept disagreement with former Mexican historiography, which was full of extremism and with a leaning towards new, unedited documents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3718074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3718074", "title": "Egotheism", "text": "Egotheism\n\nEgotheism is deification of the self, or the view that the idea of God is nothing more than a conception of the self. The latter position presupposes the impossibility of divine revelation. As such, it is a denial of the validity of faith and most theistic traditions, except for deism. Satanism teaches self-deification. Identification of the self with the divine is a tenet of Hinduism (Atman as the \"true self\"). A version of egotheism exists in the pagan cult of Antinous, where it is known as \"homotheosis\". \n\n"}
{"id": "29928814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29928814", "title": "Eugenio Trías Sagnier", "text": "Eugenio Trías Sagnier\n\nEugenio Trias (31 August 1942 – 10 February 2013) was a philosopher. He is regarded by the majority of the critics as the most important thinker since Ortega y Gasset in the philosophical literature written in Spanish.\n\nTrias was born in Barcelona. After obtaining his bachelor's degree in Philosophy at the University of Barcelona in 1964, he continued his studies in Pamplona, Madrid, Bonn and Cologne. Since 1965 he was Assistant Professor and, later, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Barcelona (UB) and the Universitat Autònoma of Barcelona (UAB). In 1972 he stayed, for one year, in Brazil and Argentina, where he offered several courses and lectures. In 1976 he became Assistant Professor of Aesthetics and Composition at the School of Architecture of Barcelona. In 1986 he gained the Chair of Philosophy at this University, where he remained until 1992. In 1992 he became Chair Professor of Philosophy at the Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona, where he remained as a Professor of History of Ideas until his death, aged 70, in his home city.\n\nHe had an encyclopedical conception of philosophy and spread his ideas in very diverse fields such as ethics, politics, aesthetics, philosophy of religion, philosophy of history, theory of knowledge, and ontology. He dealt with almost every field where philosophy can be applied. His preferred fields, nevertheless, were, above all, Philosophy of Arts and Aesthetics, on the one hand, and Philosophy of Religion, on the other. He always tried to derive his whole thought from his own personal conception of ontology, which is usually called the “Philosophy of Limit”. Many of his books have already become obligatory references in the Spanish written philosophical heritage of the last 60 years. Some of his works such as \"Treaty on Passion\", \"Beauty and the Sinister\", \"The World's limits\" or \"The Age of the Spirit\" have become classics of the Spanish written philosophical thought of the 20th century.\n\nHis work is regarded by the critics as one of two most significant philosophical pillars of the contemporary Spanish thought. Critics have praised his work for his particular style of writing (in which the philosophical thought gets poetic antennas with a great literary value). His works have been regarded not only a very important contribution to the Spanish philosophical and cultural heritage, but also an enormous textual production that will remain as one of the most reliable milestones of his generation in the fields of the philosophical literature and of the knowledge-oriented writing. Trias published over thirty-five books, some of which have had several editions in Spain and abroad. His first book, \"The Philosophy and its shadow\", published in 1969, was hailed by critics as an event in the Spanish cultural life. It was regarded as \"the philosophy of a new generation\" (Josep Maria Carandell). In his latest two books \"The Sirens Chant\" –which has become a non-fiction bestseller in Spain– and \"The Sonorous Imagination\" Trias held that there is a need of a musical turn in the philosophy of the 21st century to make thought change its gravity center, to musical aspects instead of language, since the former represents the most perfect synthesis of beauty and knowledge.\n\nAccording to the most recent book on Trias, \"Reason and revelation\", these have been –in chronological order– the main topics of Trias philosophical works:\n• The shadows of the philosophical theories\n• The reason of the irrational\n• The artists and their society \n• The Sinister as the limit and condition of beauty\n• Passionate love as the basis of intelligence\n• The Modernity crisis\n• The human condition as a bordering existence\n• The religious experience\n• The beauty and the sacred\n• A new ethics as an ethics of limit\n• The musical turn of the Philosophy\n\nAs an alternative to a narrow-minded rationalism –such as the logical positivism, the analytical philosophy or the Marxist thought–, Trias, who has never been an irrationalist philosopher, intended to extend reason to those spheres which are still reluctant to it, although they can somehow impregnate it. Some examples of these spheres are: the irrationality and the madness (in his book \"Philosophy and carnival\"); the mythical and magical thought (in his book \"Methodology of magical thought\"); the passionate love (in his book \"Treaty on passion\"); the Sinister (in his book \"The beauty and the sinister\") as a shade of the categories of beauty and the sublime which founded the traditional aesthetics; or the world of religions as the shadow of the modern Western reason (as shown in his \"The age of the Spirit\").\nThat is the reason why Eugenio Trias considers himself as an \"illuminist exorcist\" who exposes the philosophical reason to a permanent dialogue with their shadows. But the most significant innovation of Trías philosophy appeared in the early 1980s, when he found out the cornerstone of his Philosophy, namely, the concept of \"limes\" (or, \"limit\"). He stated that being (whose issue has always been the main question for Western philosophy from its origins) may be understood as “being of limit”, that is, the border area that separates as well joins the phenomena and the noumena. Whereas in Kant's thought there was not such a limit or borderline that merges and splits the phenomenon and the thing-in-itself, Trias held that such a limit exists. He stated that it is a precarious, delicate, subtle but founding isthmus. And it is just the very \"being\" that philosophers intend to define. That limit is also the boundary between the reason and its shadows.\nHis concept of the limit is the result of an intense dialogue with the Kantian tradition, Wittgenstein and Heidegger. In fact, all his work is a very developed commentary on the Wittgenstein's statement \"subject is a limit of the world.\" Trias develops an anthropology in which the person is conceived as an inhabitant of the being's limit. On this respect, person is always referred to the abovementioned limit which for Trias has an ontological significance.\n\nTrias won many prizes and awards for his creative work. Among them, these are the most important ones:\n• In 1974 he received the New Critics Award for his book \"Drama and identity\"\n• In 1975 he received the Anagrama Essay Award for \"The artist and the city\"\n• In 1983 he was awarded with the Spanish National Essay Prize for \"Beauty and the sinister\"\n• In 1995 he received the Ciutat de Barcelona Award, for \"The age of the Spirit\"\n• In 1995 he won the 13th Friedrich Nietzsche Prize for his collected philosophical works. This award (won also by other distinguished thinkers such as Popper, Rorty or Derrida) is, in its absence, an equivalent to the Nobel Prize of Philosophy, due to the fact that it is the only international award given to a philosopher in recognition of his entire career. Eugenio Trias is the only philosopher in Spanish language who has received this award.\n• In 1997 he was awarded with the Medal of the City of Buenos Aires\n• In 2000 the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo (UASD) gave Trias an Honoris Causa Doctorate\n• In 2003 the National University of San Marcos Lima (UNMSM) gave him an Honoris Causa Doctorate\n• In 2004 he received the Gold Medal of the very prestigious Circulo de Bellas Artes de Madrid\n• In 2006 the Autonomous University of Madrid (UAM) gave Trias –together with Jose Saramago– an Honoris Causa Doctorate\n• In 2007 his best-seller book \"The Sirens chant\" received two awards as the best essay of the Year: the Terenci Moix and the Qwerty prizes\n• In 2009 he received the Mariano de Cavia Award, for his article \"The great travel\", published by the ABC newspaper\n• In 2010 he received the Creation Prize of Extremadura, a very prestigious official award\n• He has been Vice-president of the Reina Sofia National Museum (Madrid) and Chairman of the Advisory Council of the Institute of Philosophy at the Centro Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas of Spain.\n\n• \"Philosophy and its shadows\" (1969, three editions)\n• \"Philosophy and Carnival\" (1970, 3 editions)\n• \"Theory of ideology\" (1970, 3 editions)\n• \"Methodology of magical thought\" (1971)\n• \"Drama and identity\" (1973, 3 editions)\n• \"The artist and the city\" (1975, 3 editions)\n• \"Meditation on power\" (1976, 2 editions)\n• \"The lost memory of things\" (1977, 2 editions)\n• \"Treaty on passion\" (1978, 5 editions)\n• \"The language of forgiveness. An essay on Hegel\" (1979)\n• \"Beauty and the Sinister\" (1981, 5 editions)\n• \"Philosophy of the future\" (1984, 2 editions)\n• \"The world's limits\" (1985, 2 editions)\n• \"The philosophical adventure\" (1987)\n• \"Limit's logic\" (1991)\n• \"The tiredness of the West\" (1992, 4 editions), with Rafael Argullol\n• \"The age of the Spirit\" (1994, 3 editions)\n• \"Thinking religion\" (1997, 2 editions)\n• \"Vertigo and passion\" (1998, 2 editions)\n• \"The borderline reason\" (1999)\n• \"City over city\" (2001)\n• \"The life's tree\" (2003)\n• \"The truth's thread\" (2004)\n• \"Politics and its shadow\" (2005)\n• \"The Sirens chant\" (2007)\n• \"Philosophical creations\" (2009), a selection of his collected works (2 volumes)\n• \"The sonorous imagination\" (2010)\n"}
{"id": "584389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584389", "title": "Evidentialism", "text": "Evidentialism\n\nFor philosophers Richard Feldman and Earl Conee, evidentialism is the strongest argument for justification because it identifies the primary notion of epistemic justification. They argue that if a person's attitude towards a proposition fits their evidence, then their doxastic attitude for that proposition is epistemically justified. Feldman and Conee offer the following argument for evidentialism as an epistemic justification:\n\n(EJ) Doxastic attitude \"D\" toward proposition \"p\" is epistemically justified for \"S\" at \"t\" if and only if having \"D\" toward \"p\" fits the evidence.\n\nFor Feldman and Conee a person's doxastic attitude is justified if it fits their evidence. EJ is meant to show the idea that justification is characteristically epistemic. This idea makes justification dependent on evidence.\n\nFeldman and Conee believe that because objections to EJ have become so prominent their defense for it is appropriate. The theses that object EJ are implying that epistemic justification is dependent upon the \"cognitive capacities of an individual or upon the cognitive processes or information-gatherings practices that lead to an attitude.\" For Feldman and Conee, EJ is in contrast to these theses; EJ contends that the epistemic justification for an attitude is only dependent upon evidence. \n\nCritics of evidentialism sometimes reject the claim that a conclusion is justified only if one's evidence supports that conclusion. A typical counterexample goes like this. Suppose, for example, that Babe Ruth approaches the batter's box believing that he will hit a home run despite his current drunkenness and overall decline in performance in recent games. He realizes that, however unlikely it is that his luck will change, it would increase his chances of hitting a home run if he maintains a confident attitude. In these circumstances, critics of evidentialism argue that his belief that \"p = Babe Ruth will hit a home run\" is justified, even though his evidence does not support this belief.\n\nEvidentialists may respond to this criticism by forming a distinction between \"pragmatic\" or \"prudential justification\" and \"epistemic justification\". In Babe Ruth's case, it is pragmatically justified that he believe \"p\", but it is nevertheless epistemically unjustified: though the belief may be justified for the purpose of promoting some other goal (a successful at bat, in Ruth's case), it is not justified relative to the purely epistemic goal of having beliefs that are most likely to be true.\n\nA similar response follows the criticism that evidentialism implies all faith-based beliefs are unjustified. For example, fideism claims that evidence is irrelevant to religious beliefs and that attempts to justify religious beliefs in such a way are misguided. Superficially, fideism and evidentialism have mutually exclusive takes on religious beliefs, but evidentialists use the term \"justification\" in a much weaker sense than the one in which fideists most likely use it. Evidentialism merely defines the epistemic condition of a belief.\n\nAlthough evidentialism states that the content of the evidence does not matter, only that it constitutes valid justification towards some proposition, a skeptical criticism may be levelled at evidentialism from uncertainty theories. One's evidence may be objectively disproved at some point or it may be the case that one can never have absolute certainty of one's evidence. Given the logic of arguments concerning principles of uncertainty and randomness, skepticism towards knowledge merely becomes skepticism towards valid justification.\n\nLikewise, some say that the human mind is not naturally inclined to form beliefs based on evidence, viz. cognitive dissonance. While this may be the case, evidentialists admit, evidentialism is only meant to separate justified beliefs from unjustified beliefs. One can believe that evidentialism is true yet still maintain that the human mind is not naturally inclined to form beliefs based on evidence. He would simply have to conclude that the mind is not naturally inclined to form justified beliefs.\n\nEvidentialism also faces a challenge from the infinite regress argument. This argument begins with the observation that, normally, one's supporting evidence for a belief consists of other beliefs. However, it seems that these other beliefs can do the job of justifying only if they themselves are already justified. And evidentialism demands that these supporting beliefs be justified by still further evidence if they are to be justified themselves. But this same reasoning would apply to the new, deeper level of supporting beliefs: they can only justify if they're themselves justified, and evidentialism therefore demands an even deeper level of supporting belief. And so on. According to this argument, a justified belief requires an endless supply of reasons. Some philosophers such as Thomas Nagel posit that this is an absurd conclusion.\n\nIn general, responses to this argument can be classified in the following ways:\n\nOf the main responses, coherentism and skepticism are clearly consistent with evidentialism. Coherentism allows evidential support for all of our justified beliefs in the face of the regress argument by allowing for circular chains of evidential support among beliefs. And the skeptic here is utilizing an evidentialist demand to arrive at her skeptical conclusion.\n\nBut because the resulting skepticism is so sweeping and devastating, and because so many reject the legitimacy of the circular reasoning embraced by the coherentist, foundationalism is the favored response of many philosophers to the regress argument. And foundationalism does not so clearly fit together with evidentialism. At first glance, at least, the \"basic\" beliefs of the foundationalist would appear to be counterexamples to the evidentialist's thesis, in that they are justified beliefs that are not rational because they are not supported by deeper evidence.\n\nMany contemporary epistemologists reject the view that evidential support is the whole story about the justification of beliefs. While no sensible epistemologists generally urge people to disregard their evidence when forming beliefs, many believe that a more complete theory would introduce considerations about the processes that initiate and sustain beliefs. An example of one such theory is reliabilism. The most influential proponent of reliabilism is Alvin Goldman. According to a crude form of reliabilism, \"S\" is justified in believing \"p\" if and only if \"S\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s belief in \"p\" is caused by a reliable process—a process that generally leads to true beliefs. Some of these reliable processes may require the processing of evidence; many others won't. So, Goldman would argue, evidentialism, on which the justification of a belief always turns completely on the issue of the belief's evidential support, is false. Likewise, evidentialism will be rejected by more sophisticated versions of reliabilism, some of which will allow evidence an important but limited role, as opposed to the all-encompassing role assigned to it by evidentialism.\n\nOther non-evidentialist theories include: the Causal Theory, according to which \"S\" knows \"p\" if and only if \"S\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s belief in \"p\" is causally connected in an appropriate way with \"S\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s believing \"p\"; and Robert Nozick's Truth Tracking Theory, according to which \"S\" knows \"p\" if and only if (i) \"p\" is true, (ii) \"S\" believes \"p\", (iii) \"S\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s attitude toward \"p\" tracks the truth value of \"p\" in that, when \"p\" is not true, \"S\" does not believe \"p\" and when \"p\" is true, \"S\" does believe \"p\".\n\nAnother alternative perspective, promoted by David Hume's 18th-century opponent, Presbyterian philosopher Thomas Reid, and perhaps hinted at by Hume himself, at least in some moods (though this is a very controversial issue in interpreting Hume), has it that some of our \"natural\" beliefs—beliefs we are led to form by natural features of the human constitution—have what can be called an \"innocent-until-proven-guilty\" status. Contrary to evidentialism, they can be justified in the absence of any effective evidence that supports them. They are justified just so long as one doesn't have good reason to think them false.\n\nA new account of the extent of our evidence is Timothy Williamson's claim that \"E=K\": one's evidence is what one knows. (See Williamson's book, \"Knowledge and Its Limits\" (Oxford UP, 2000).) Going by the \"letter of the law,\" Williamson's resulting theory is not contrary to, but is rather an instance of, evidentialism. By allowing our evidence to encompass everything we know, Williamson is able to give thoroughly evidentialist accounts of many important epistemological concepts. But, traditionally, evidentialists have presupposed much more restrictive accounts of what our evidence is. Thus, Williamson's theory is opposed to the spirit of much traditional evidentialism, primarily because it turns evidentialism from an internalist account of justification to an externalist account (due to the factive nature of knowledge.) However, Williamson's work may point to a quite general way to modify traditional evidentialism to make it better able to meet the challenges it faces: whether or not one goes so far as to accept that \"E=K\", broadening one's view of what comprises our evidence may provide a way to address many of the objections to evidentialism, especially to those disinclined to swallow skeptical consequences of a view.\n\n\"As evidentialism is a thesis about \"epistemic\" justification, it is a thesis about what it takes for one to believe justifiably, or reasonably, in the sense thought to be necessary for knowledge. Particular versions of evidentialism can diverge in virtue of their providing different claims about what sorts of things count as evidence, what it is for one to have evidence, and what it is for one's evidence to support believing a proposition. Thus, while (EVI) is often referred to as \"the theory\" of epistemic justification known as evidentialism, it is more accurately conceived as a \"kind\" of epistemic theory. In this light, (EVI) can be seen as the central, guiding thesis of evidentialism. All evidentialist theories conform to (EVI), but various divergent theories of evidentialism can be formulated.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58615029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58615029", "title": "F. V. Konstantinov", "text": "F. V. Konstantinov\n\nFedor Vasilevich Konstantinov (1901–1991) was a Soviet philosopher and leader.\n\nAfter becoming a member of the Communist Party in 1918, he graduated from the Institute of Red Teachers in 1932 and earned his PhD in Philosophy in 1935. During his career he served as an academic secretary of the Institute of Philosophy of the Communist Academy, Professor of Propaganda of the Central Committee, and deputy director of the Institute of Philosophy of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. He was editor-in-chief of \"Problems of Philosophy\" (1952–54) and \"Коммунист\" (\"Communist\", 1958–62). He also acted as head of the Propaganda Department of the CC of the CPSU (Отделом пропаганды и агитации ЦК КПСС, 1955–58). He was a main author of the historical materialism (\"Историч матери\"ализм, 1951) and the \"Fundamentals of Marxist Philosophy\" (\"Основы марксистской философии\", 1958), and chief editor of the \"Philosophical Encyclopedia\" (volumes 1-3, 1960–64). He served as director of the Institute of Philosophy of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR (1962–67). He was the founder and president of the Philosophical Society of the USSR (Философского общества СССР, 1971).\n"}
{"id": "26758973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26758973", "title": "Ferrante de Gemmis", "text": "Ferrante de Gemmis\n\nFerrante de Gemmis (April 14, 1732 – April 21, 1803) was an Italian philosopher and literary man.\n\nFerrante de Gemmis was born in Terlizzi, near Bari. His parents were the Baron Tommaso de Gemmis and Francesca Bruni.\n\nHe was educated in Naples where he graduated in law. He inherited the properties of his uncle Minister Ferrante Maddalena. \n\nDe Gemmis was a friend of the philosopher and political economist Antonio Genovesi. He founded an Academy in Terlizzi becoming the primary exponent of Illuminism in the region of Apulia. He refused to become a judge so he could continue writing about philosophy even though he wrote in anonymity for modesty.\n\nHis portrait is in the Dictionary of the notable people of the Reign of Naples.\n\nHe died in Terlizzi on April 21, 1803.\n\n"}
{"id": "859096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=859096", "title": "Forbidden knowledge", "text": "Forbidden knowledge\n\nForbidden knowledge, which is different from secret knowledge, is used to describe forbidden books or other information to which access is restricted or deprecated for political or religious reasons. Forbidden knowledge is commonly not secret, rather a society or various institutions will use repressive mechanisms to either completely prevent the publication of information they find objectionable or dangerous (censorship), or failing that, to try to reduce the public's trust in such information (propaganda). Public repression can create paradoxical situation where the proscribed information is generally common knowledge but publicly citing it is disallowed.\n\nA rich set of examples exist through history. \nIn many cases this resulted in people defending themselves by creating political jokes. Jokes throughout history have been a powerful instrument to undermine state authority and the public truth associated with it.\n\nToday's (2005) examples in repressive regimes are still uncountable but even liberal societies sometimes impose limits to the freedom of the individual to spread information that is not politically correct. For example, Germany bans the publication of certain books associated with the Nazi regime.\n\nSome form of public repression of facts or speculation not desirable to some people or even a majority of the population seems inevitable as societies need to create some common basis of facts to create a unified identity. Critical to political and personal freedom is the level to which this repression is organized through the state or powerful private organizations. Western secular societies have reached the consensus through the late 19th and early 20th centuries that private organizations should not be allowed to engage in compulsory censorship, forcing people to obey their dictates. For example, the separation of church and state in most Western societies mostly prevents religious organizations from repressing individuals based on their personal opinions and beliefs. As well, people are generally allowed to leave employment with a company which may regulate such personal expressions for whatever reason and find employment in less restrictive circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "27303178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27303178", "title": "François Brousse", "text": "François Brousse\n\nFrançois Brousse (May 7, 1913 - October 25, 1995) was a philosophy professor who had mainly taught in the Languedoc-Roussillon region and is the author of some 80 works including poetry, essays (metaphysical, astronomical, historical and esoteric), novels, plays and storybooks.\nHe was a pioneer of the philosophy cafes that were popping up almost everywhere in France at the end of the 20th century.\nBrousse was born in Perpignan, France and died in Clamart, France.\n\nIn his approximately 40 poetry books, François Brousse embodies the role of a poet. In a radio broadcast (1957), he described this role as being the \"gardener of humanity\": \"Since then, I believe in the civilizing mission poets have. He scatters seeds of beauty, admiration, enthusiasm and love in humanity's collective subconscious. These seeds grow slowly and through them, we can witness a soul's development, the only true type of advancement existing\".\n\nIn addition to his interest in writing, he was well known in the city of Perpignan for hosting informal meetings in public areas, cafes, herbal stores and special groups, such as the Groupe de la Quatrième Dimension 1950 (The Fourth Dimension Group) and the Association France-Inde 1953. He also contributed to numerous regional magazines such as \"Madeloc\", \"Sources Vives\", \"Agni\", \"Conflent\", \"Tramontane\" and so forth.\n\nHis knowledge and talent as an orator was visible in conferences that became more frequent after 1963. First held in Prades, then in Perpignan and they finally spread around France, Geneva (Switzerland, 1990) and Tell el-Amarna (Egypt, 1992).\n\nThe subjects touched upon in these conferences, which were usually announced in the local press, principally addressed the goal he had given himself in 1945, \"One of my earthly missions will be to not only impart the keys to Hugolian esotericism but also the mysteries of Saint John and the secrets of Nostradamus.\"\n\nSeen as an unclassifiable and colorful character from the city, he described himself as \"a quiet man.\" He explained, \"I prefer to meditate rather than meet people and be in crowds. I only want to be read because I have an important message to communicate. […] My mission is to relight the blazing flame of poetry, metaphysics and perfection.\"\n\nThe daily French local papers, \"L'Indépendant\", \"Midi Libre\", \"La Dépêche du Midi\" as well as other regional and national news sources dedicated at least two hundred and fifty articles to him whereas periodical journals came out with more than three hundred other sources concerning him in some way or another.\n\nThe only child of a French family from Perpignan, François Brousse had a studious and secretive youth. \"Already mastering the subtleties of the French language and composing verses, he wrote his first poem ‘Soir,’ (Night) ‘most likely at the age of ten.’\" With extraordinary virtuoso, he also began his first book entitled Fantasies, which he dedicated to his \"beloved parents,\" and finished at the age of fifteen. He had a strong taste for literature, especially poetry with five hundred poems, about three thousand verses, three thousand new ones in prose, and some forty drawings and paintings found within \"Fantasies\".\n\nAt the age of fourteen, he wrote The Tales of the Pigeon and the Source, which touched on \"love leading to voluntary self-sacrifice in terms of accepting suffering and the death of one’s beloved\" It was followed by a swordsman novel, Jasmine that occurred at the time of King Louis XIV and the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes (1685).\n\nTo begin to understand what François Brousse saw as \"Auroral poetry\" (Title of Book VIII), we must first address the poem, \"Auroral or Where My Fairy Lives\" (date of completion, April 1928). \" ‘Divine Poetry,’ shows the young poet the works of Ronsard, La Fontaine, Victor Hugo, Leconte de Lisle by a woman with blond hair through air bound travels. The poet asks, \"Which of these four beings must I imitate?\" The goddess answers, \"You will decide for yourself. \"\n\n\"Art needs to be free,\n\nThe infiniteness of all the heavens,\n\nEternity must vibrate\n\nTo its capricious impulses.\"\n\nThe deeper meaning of this long poem (916 verses) is that everything dies but is also reborn, \"animals, humans and plants,\" and even suns: \"Yes, the immortal star has been killed! / But the Infinite gives it life again. \" There is an idea of permanent creation and perpetual rebirth in a collision of merging worlds. At the end of his life, François Brousse confides in the presence of his friends :\n\n\"When I was a child, my father had asked me:\n\nWhat do you want to create?\n\nI answered him :\n\nAuroral Poetry.\n\nHe told me :\n\nThat is extremely ambitious. You think the Dawn didn’t exist before your Poetry ?\n\nAnd I told him that the Dawn is perpetually renewed. He told me I was right and he would help me at the bottom of the abyss after he had entered the infinite, the absolute and the eternal.\"\n\nFrom all his sources of inspiration and admiration, at a very young age François Brousse finally chose his favorite poet after some hesitation: Victor Hugo. This choice was apparent in the prologue of Une Gorgée de Poésie (A Sip of Poetry) written from May to August 1928. It was an anthology dedicated to Victor Hugo specifying the presence of a seed of poetry within every soul and that \"a being without poetry is a being without a soul […] incapable of superhuman feelings.\"\n\nHis notebook on The Poetry of Victor Hugo, \"the strong giant, especially in his kindness to the humble,\" yet again exemplifies this high poetic awareness. He lets his thoughts amble on \"Odes et Ballades\" (Odes and Ballads), \"Les quatre Vents de l’Esprit\" (The Four Winds of the Spirit), \"Le Pape\" (The Pope), \"La Pitié suprême\" (Supreme Mercy), \"Religions et Religion\" (Religions and Religion), \"L’Âne\" (The Donkey), \"Toute la Lyre\" (The Whole Lyre), \"Dernière Gerbe\" (Last Gleanings) but he swore that \"the most beautiful books written by this great genius are \"Les Contemplations\" (Contemplations), \"La Légende des siècles\" (The Legend of the Ages), \"La Fin de Satan\" (The End of Satan) and \"Dieu\" (God).\"\n\nAn extract from this notebook particularly stresses both the impetuous style and precocious commitment of the young François Brousse :\n\n\"When Death places her skeleton hand upon her eyelids, the grateful country makes her grandiose funerals and builds her a statue made of bronze and gold. But a few envious mosquitoes, filled with venom, come and circle around the statue, harassing the giant dreaming under the luminous sky with their miniature stingers. A child passed by. He was an adolescent filled with joy and pride from the glory of Titan, his ancestor. He saw the hideous crowd jeering in the face of the powerful statue. With an indignant and serene gesture, he drove away the revolting whirlwind and kneeled before the great statue, which had been insulted. I will be this child.\"\n\nFor him, \"a people without poets are an earth without a sky.\" The \"child\" embodies this auroral poetry. The budding poet wants to bring a new dawn to the old world, collapsing and rotting. This is what he stated at the end of his life :\n\n\"The particularity of great poets is to always add something new. By adding something new, they change their readers because by being completely baffled, the readers try to find the key to the mystery, the enigma, the big key that opens all the heavens for us. And they get there. All they need to do is love. To love is a word full of all the stars\".\n\nDuring his last two years at the Collège de Perpignan (Perpignan Middle School) (1930–1932), François Brousse finished a collection of thirty-five poems entitled \"Les Dieux\" (The Gods) and started a series of sonnets on \"Les Colosses\" (The Giants), presented here by Jean-Pierre Wenger in his biography, \"François Brousse l’Enlumineur des mondes\" (François Brousse, The Enlightener of Worlds :\n\n\"This anthology builds upon a source of inspiration already begun at an earlier time with mythology – mainly Greek – and with Egyptian, Cambodian, Biblical and Hindu traditions. These sonnets bathe their strophes in these unearthly dimensions where humanity’s universal saga is expressed. The reader is transported into the domain of pure ideas made so real that he or she forgets everything else. He simultaneously began \"Les Colosses\" with the geniuses who civilized humanity: Homer, Aeschylus and Virgil whose enormous physical builds had a distinct influence on the people. It is made up of fifty-seven sonnets. No conquerors are present. Although antique Greece was the author’s preference, he nevertheless did not neglect the Biblical saga with Isaiah and Ezekiel, to which he would subsequently dedicate his studies. Also amongst Les Colosses are some Latin heroes like Tacitus, Juvenal and Virgil who were already ranked in Victor Hugo’s Hall of Humanity in \"La Préface de Cromwell\" (Cromwell’s Preface) \".\n\nAt the Montpellier College of Arts and Languages, where he had registered in 1932, Brousse embarked upon writing two epics: \"Julien\" (750 verses, finished April 14, 1935) which recounts a few events in the life of the Roman emperor, Flavius Claudius Julianus (331-363), also known under the name, Julian the Apostate; and most likely Ganelon (2060 verses) about the legendary \"Song of Roland\" and Ganelon's betrayal. Roland died in an apotheosis-like destiny while giving his blood \"to save the universe\" in order to keep the flame of Wisdom and Freedom lighted.\n\n\"In March 1936 (or November 1937), Brousse started working for the French National Education System first as a Boarding School Supervisor, then as part of the adjunct faculty and from 1940, taught philosophy and literature in the Languedoc-Roussillon region until he retired in 1975. He also brought exposure to the science of cosmography (1955, 1962).\"\n\nIn March 1936, Hitler broke the Locarno Pact and reoccupied the Rhineland areas, which has been demilitarized. François Brousse foretold of great upheaval to come in \"La Reine du lotus, \"(The Lotus Queen) which he classified amongst the major poems of his book:\n\n\"A Tower is rising, \"the Triumphant Babel,\" with powerful walls whose blocks are \"kneaded with bones.\" We can see one of the \"Tours de la Nuit\" (Night Towers). This work is a study foretelling the collapse of dictatorships., a crystallization of bleak dogmatisms crushing human aspirations towards perfection. It is the totalitarian dream and will of power obliterating love.\"\n\nIn addition, on August 10, 1936, François finished \"Les Réveils de Lazare\", a prophetic study based on some of Victor Hugo's writings [\"Les Châtiments\" (Castigations) and \"La Légende des siècles\" (The Legend of Ages)], under the alias \"Charles Amazan.\" Here, he touches on the unification of Austria and Germany, the tragic end of Mussolini, the final fall of Nazism, the breakdown of Anglo-Saxon colonialism and the future democratic nature of the United States and Europe.\n\nAfter five years studying at the University of Montpellier for a teaching degree in Language and Philosophy, he started working for the French National Education System. In 1938, life events led him to meet Cajzoran Ali, a thirty-five-year-old North-American woman who had published a book about Yoga in New York ten years earlier entitled, Divine Posture Influence upon Endocrine Glands.\n\nFrançois Brousse recounts this unusual meeting in Béziers and Montpellier in his book Isis-Uranie. It marked a decisive moment in his life due to the significance of the knowledge he gained, amongst which were unknown Upanishads, the vast panorama in which current humanity – the Fifth Race – resides in a line of evolution soaring through past and future millenniums.\n\nAnother revelation from the Yogini to the young poet was the Tarot of India and Egypt, a collection of twenty-four figurines or archetypes representing the twenty-four principle cycles, planets, religions, philosophies, methods and eternal masters in world history. \"Poetic inspiration, dreams, madness and also fantasy, folklore, mythology and religion are reflections of these universal archetypes that we find in all peoples and that seem to have sprung up miraculously in perfect harmony, order and parallelism […].\n\nThe Poème de la Terre (Earth Poem) – 35 sonnets dedicated to the living Earth – was the first book published by François Brousse. This was a brilliant breakthrough into 20th century literature for the inspired poet. The work is epic in its Homerian strength, reminiscent of exploding comets and spewing lava, and recounts the chaotic steps of the Universe’s Origins, the birth of the Earth and its amazing separation. On rock-hard marble, he etched opinions, which he would hold throughout his life about the ultimate purpose of life with sonnets like, \"Les réincarnations,\" (Reincarnations) \"Les génies,\" (The Geniuses) and \"L’idée de Dieu\" (The Idea of God). The author himself comments about \"Reincarnations\": \"Such a sonnet holds doctrines discovered by sages from all religions and is the pure diamond of Truth. The transmigration of souls, the law of Karma, which spans the universes and finally the infinite progress of an indestructible being in a limitless life...\". \"\n\nWhat more is there to say about Le Poème de la Terre? I hear the echoing voice of Antoine Orliac who just yesterday, talking to me and placing a hand on François Brousse’s shoulder said, \"Finally, here is a true poet! (Albert Janicot, magazine Madeloc, no. 37, Perpignan, October 1955)\n\nLeaning on Victor Hugo’s texts, in May 1939 he published \"Les Tours de la nuit\" (The Night Towers) in the magazine Astrosophie. Here, he announced the fall of the fascist dictatorships and did so four months before France and England went to war against Hitler.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1948, a series of articles entitled \"Le secret des tombes royales\" (The Secret of the Royal Graves) appeared in the magazine Destins (Paris). They related to France's history and discussed the 1,000 and 300 year cycles François Brousse spoke about, which had stuck a chord with the French, European and international public from the second half of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century, its critical period being the ± 4 years around 2015.\n\nIn 1949, he finished another historical study called, \"La Prophétie des papes, miroir du monde\" (The Prophecy of Popes, the Mirror of the World).\n\n (Lamennais and Universal Christianity) (Ed. Le Scorpion, Paris, 1963). This philosophical essay corresponds to François Brousse's memory on Raison individuelle et Raison générale chez Lamennais (Lamennais’ Individual and Popular Reason). In May 1942 he successfully finished his studies started many years earlier in Montpellier and obtained the Diplôme d’Études Supérieures de Philosophie et Lettres (Master's degree in Philosophy and Language).\n\nBrousse happily reveals the strengths, weaknesses and this remarkable genius’ duality of life and thought. To his credit, in a clear and immensely beautiful manner he reproduced the meaning and value of the ideal that set the genius alight. His book must be read and reread because it bubbles with passion and surges with ideas. Its singing poetry carries our mind so much above its normal limits that we cannot deny this is more than a book, more than an author and more than a study: We are at the heart of great mystery, in the infiniteness of thought before the beginning and end, facing the blinding rays of suns masking the eternal Truth.\n\nIn the July, 17th 1952 newspaper edition of Sud-Ouest (Bordeaux, France), an article by R. Cahisa called, \"À l’inconscient surréaliste substituant le surconscient, François Brousse, philosophe et conteur, fonde le groupe de la Quatrième Dimension. (Surrealist unconsciousness substituting for super-consciousness, François Brousse, philosopher and storyteller, founds the Forth Dimension Group). Brousse is portrayed as a person who is, \"svelte and thin with strong prescription glasses. This kind, patient and optimistic vegetarian who believes in homeopathy, the afterlife, metempsychosis and who admires Hindu philosophy and Gandhi – who let himself die of hunger – could be said to have his head in the clouds or even on trans-Plutonian planets.\"\n\nThe thinker had detailed views on surrealism and science :\n\n\"[...] Einstein spent time in the Forth Dimension. A mistake, says Brousse. The Forth Dimension is a supernatural world radiating beyond time, space and the material world. In order to reach this supernatural world, true inner discipline is necessary. All thoughts of hate must be eliminated, enthusiasm and a sense of aestheticism must be cultivated, dreams must be analyzed and metaphysical thought must be stimulated.\"\n\nThis new poetry is not inspired by morbid and devastating twentieth century realism but by pure, marble-like sources of imagination from which some poets drink on high volcano peaks with the wings of dreams and clairvoyance, the lucid metaphysical eye of super-consciousness.\n\n\"Rejecting drugs and their associated disorders, despair and degeneration, as a writer, Brousse only reveals this famous Forth Dimension to investigation by scientific experts to then make it available to all by placing it in the domain of inspiration.\n\nThree keys are necessary to open the doors to the sanctuary of this supernatural world, guiding us to the Forth Dimension: purification, meditation and contemplation.\n\nPurifying the body, soul and spirit, particularly through vegetarianism, nonviolence and practicing Buddhist blessings of wishing happiness to all beings in every direction – North, South, East, West, the nadir, zenith and within our primordial being. François Brousse’s stance was, \"We must be completely vegetarian. If we cannot do so, we will never know the ultimate Truth. This is an absolute truth that I am telling you here…\"\n\nMeditating on the great sacred textures, humanity's heritage.\n\nContemplating artistic masterpieces from Rembrandt, Michelangelo, Mozart, Hugo and others, thus immersing ourselves in universal Beauty and spiritual escape.\n\nThe remainder of the article primarily addresses the soul. \"Humans reincarnate on a planet until they attain supreme Wisdom. At that time, they move beyond the wheel of reincarnation and enter into eternal Joy. [...] This is the destiny of all souls after more or less transformation.\"\n\nHe gives this Group a Fourth Dimension Manifesto. A number of poems edited between 1950 and 1970 thereby drew their inspiration, amongst which were Les Pèlerins de la nuit (The Night Pilgrims) that won the \"Grand Prix d’Honneur aux Jeux floraux du Genêt d’Or\" (a literary prize) in Perpignan.\n\nIn his books like his discourse, Brousse's metaphysics branch out from philosophical deism dear to Voltaire, which states :\n\n\"The universe encumbers me and I cannot imagine\n\nThis clock existing with no clockmaker.\"\n\nIt admits to an existing Principle of consciousness, the infinite, eternity, the absolute, the source of the Being and the Merit where \"for lack of a greater name, we say God\". \" It clarifies the human journey by affirming the existence of an immortal soul that incarnates from body to body under the sovereign law of Karma until it is able to identify with the entire cosmos in a process of Wisdom, Love, Power, Joy and Beauty.\n\nIn the succession of humanity’s great thinkers like Plato, Orpheus, Pythagoras, Hermes and Lamblichus, François Brousse affirms the existence of metempsychosis, which is necessary in this long night pilgrimage to the blinding heights of imperishable eternity and the possibility of humans falling back into the animalistic chasm and potentially even deeper in expiation. Such is the unfortunate fate of dictators and tyrants, described captivatingly by Victor Hugo in his poem \"Ce que dit la bouche d’ombre\" (What the Shadow's Mouth Says) in \"Les Contemplations\" (Contemplations). A Promethean amount of work carried out uncountable lives, deaths, falls, rebirths and rises but from which the spirit's triumph will inevitably arise.\n\n\"To bloom, to wither, and flower again\n\nIs the destiny of Eve’s children.\n\nTheir crowd passes like a dream\n\nIt is the burning spark of sapphires\"\n\nIt follows the idea that eternal hell does not exist but is rather, the invention of religion and all beings are called, chosen and will ultimately be saved. Should human beings eternally be punished in the name of a cruel God for a short-lived mistake? François Brousse's God is not like the Religious Gods but the philosopher's Gods that follow reason and wisdom. He thus reaffirms the great idea of Justice or Karma advocated by the Hindus and Ancient Greek philosophers, always holding the possibility of being transformed at any point in time. The God of philosophers is an impeccably just god, \"But the most beautiful sapphire of his immense richness / Is to hold the infiniteness of Clemency.\"\n\nAccording to Brousse, three forces govern the universe: Freedom, Fatality and Providence.\" Human beings reap what they sow. It is up to the individual to follow the paths of grace by intelligently using free will. \"Providence is God’s smile when he looks upon humankind and shows the paths to a glorious life.\"\n\nFor François Brousse, suffering is therefore not the law of the world but, alas, a sometimes necessary form of purification. \"Pain teaches us and thought transforms us.\" To help this slow journey of souls towards Happiness, Magicians shape human history and form what Brousse calls Aggartha.\n\n\"To push towards the threshold of an ineffable world,\n\nHuman pilgrims walking slowly,\n\nArchangels use their grandiose energy\n\nCarrying nations upon their adorable wings.\"\n\nAfter a period of rigorous analysis started in his youth, his thoughts revealed the illusion of time, space and cause, which was synthesized in \"L’illusion de l’illusion\" (The Illusion of Illusion). His idealistic outlook joins Berkeley's, not seeing any reality in tangible, sensitive matter. François Brousse also came to this conclusion and for him, matter was only an insubstantial appearance; only the human spirit could give him a reality.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1990 a new style of poetry arrived and was called \"Transfinite,\" a word already used by the German mathematician, Georg Cantor (1845–1918). For the poet, \"the Transfinite is the union of the finite and infinite in a transcendent synthesis : Its domain is Illumination.\" Poetry is a path, a type of ascension to the most ideal metamorphosis for night pilgrims and a true initiatory path that transforms a person enamored with beauty into transcendent exaltation.\n\n\"I rise amongst the stars\n\nThe hurricane blows in my sailed canvas\n\nI enjoy fatal destinations.\"\n\nThis period was exceptionally fertile with poetic inspiration, which combines ethereal expression, purified until transparency and symbolic lucidity in areas where human experience draws silent.\n\nHis poetic creativity increased vertiginously and for good reason while writing on average two to three poems a day and more than 400 pages of text in a few months: \"La Rosée des constellations\" (Dew of the Constellations) (1991), \"Les Transfigurations\" (Transfigurations) (1992), \"Le Baiser de l’archange\" (The Kiss of the Archangel) (1993), \"Le Frisson de l’aurore\" (The Shiver of Dawn) (1993), \"Les Miroitements de l’Infini\" (The Shimmering Infinite) (1994), \"L’Homme aux semelles de tempête\" (The Man with Wandering Feet) (1995), \"Rencontre avec l’Être\" (Meeting with the Being) (1995) ; and the post-mortem publications with \"La Roseraie des fauvettes\" (The Warbler's Rose Garden) (1997), \"L’Idéale Métamorphose\" (The Ideal Metamorphosis) (1998), \"Le Sourire de l’Astre\" (The Star's Smile) (1998), \"Le Refrain de l’Absolu\" (The Chorus of the Absolute) (2000).\n\nIn \"Le Pas des songes\" (Following Dreams) (2001) is a collection of about two hundred of François Brousse's final poems amongst more than five thousand others written between the ages of 10 to 83.\n\nDOVES\n\nDoves, oh white doves,\n\nFluttering on the tombs,\n\nCome drink from the pavement crevasses\n\nA sidereal light.\n\nThe dead are not in the night,\n\nThey are rising to the dazzling heavens\n\nAnd are traveling from awakening to awakening\n\nUntil the unfathomable sun.\n\nThey watch as all flee\n\nLike the waters' foam\n\nAnd savor, blessed lovers,\n\nThe embraces of the transfinite.\n\nOne of the last poems he wrote in his life brought much concern about the future of humanity and his extreme lucidity tinged with hope and remaining open to all possibilities :\n\n\"There is not much more time\n\nTo restore humankind\n\nBut this illustrious mission\n\nCrosses all our paths.\"\n\nBrousse's conferences began in the autumn of 1951 (magazine \"Madeloc\", No. 14, Nov. 1951, Perpignan) and concerned astronomy. They became more frequent during his sojourn in Prades (1961–1965) when opening a series on the Apocalypse (1961–1981), a theme about which he had aimed to disseminate new knowledge after 1945 [(\"L’Avenir des peuples\") (The Future of the People)]. They particularly inspired the publication of \"Commentaires sur l’Apocalypse de saint Jean\", t.1 (Commentaries on Saint John's Apocalypse) vol. 1 [Ed. La Licorne Ailée (The Winged Unicorn), Clamart, 2001].\n\nFrom 1975 he dedicated a few conferences (1976–1978 in Prades and Perpignan) to his encounters with beings having left a mark on his life: Zorah – ou Cajzoran Ali – (Zorah or Cajzoran Ali) (1938), le Comte de Saint-Germain (The Tale of Saint-Germain) (1966), Apollonius de Tyane (The Apollonius of Tyana) (1927). He studied other historical figures who he classified amongst the prophets of humanity like Rama, Jesus, Plotin, Ulrich of Mayence, etc.\n\nProphesy, a phenomenon that fascinated Brousse from 1934 after discovering Nostradamus, is widely approached by bringing in archetypes from the \"Tarot\" (1972), la Grande Pyramide (The Great Pyramid) (1977), books like Asia Mysteriosa (1976), lore such as the prophecies from Roi du Monde (The King of the World) (1978), secret societies like l’Ordre Polaire (The Order of the Polar Star) (1976) and the Esséniens (Essenes) (1977).\n\nIn 1979 and 1980, Brousse greatly speaks about Philippe of Lyon [L’Évangile de Philippe de Lyon (Philippe of Lyon's Gospel), Ed. La Licorne Ailée, 1994], Nostradamus, and the great prophecies (three lectures on \"La Prophétie des Papes\" (The Prophecy of the Popes), Padre Pio, etc.) and in June 1979, he gave his first lecture in Paris on \"La communication des sens et de l’esprit,\" (Communication of the Senses and the Spirit).\n\nFrom 1980 he published and publicly talked about his journeys to Wesak every year during the month of May. From 1982 to 1984, he focused on the Proverbs of Solomon (more than eighteen lectures in Prades) in front of an audience captivated by his psychological finesse. He would present regularly in Paris but was also solicited in other cities in France such as Nîmes, Agde, Toulouse, Poitiers, Montpellier and Strasbourg.\n\nHis lectures (1984–1990) touching on \"astrosophy\" (wisdom of the stars), a word formerly used by F. Root-Wheler (1929) but to which François Brousse attributed deep importance as cycles or cosmic eras through which souls travel [\"L'astrosophie ou la science divine des étoiles\", (Astrosophy or the Divine Science of the Stars) Ed. Dervy-Livres, Paris, 1989].\n\nIn 1985, his preferred subject was Initiation and a century necessity, Victor Hugo. In 1986–1987 it changed to Halley's comet, Egypt (four conferences), the Fourth Dimension, the Age of Aquarius and also seven conferences on religion. Brousse also dedicated numerous topics to the Occident's great initiates (1986–1989): Pythagoras, Plato, Rosenkreutz, Paracelsus, Hugo and more while reserving a special place for Akhenaton after 1976 (at least seven lectures).\n\nAfter his last lecture in Perpignan in October 1990, he held his thoughts from the Parisian public until his final appearance at \"Le Manifeste de la Quatrième Dimension\" (The Fourth Dimension Manifesto) in June 1995.\nFrom these numerous talks and lectures, a collection of 430 titles remains.\n\nTHE FRANCE-INDE MAGAZINE\n\nThe magazine France-Inde was first published on February 1951 by an association with the same name, which was created in 1948 in Pierrefitte (around Paris) and chaired by Gopaljee Samboo. This magazine was distributed from February 1951 (No. 1) to 1975 (No. 100), quarterly or biannually and was sponsored by an Honor Committee with J.-P. Sartre, Sanghor, and G. Duhamel amongst others (1954). The Oriental scholar, Jean Herbert, wrote a few articles on Hindu spirituality for the magazine.\n\nAbout ten poems, just as many articles and roughly fifteen summaries of François Brousse's work appeared in France-Inde.\n\nTHE FRANCE-INDE COMMITTEE IN PERPIGNAN\n\n\"\"The mission of the France-Inde association is to develop cultural relations between two great nations and the beautiful province of Roussillon will be one of the first to partake in the resurgence of Indianism\".\"\n\nIn June 1952, Brousse and C. Van Dyck created the France-Inde Committee in Perpignan, linked to the national France-Inde Association. From 1953 to 1963 nine public conferences were organized in this framework with lecturers such as Lanza del Vasto (November 16, 1955) – the heir to Gandhi and Vinoba – and the French Catalan hatha-yogi from Banyuls, Lucien Ferrer.\"\n\nThe France-Inde Committee of Perpignan released its first publication, \"Agni\", in 1953 (magazine \"Agni\", Perpignan, No. 1-24, 1953–1960).\n\n\"Charles Amazan, Georges Zaclaz and Suryananda – the many pseudonyms of Brousse – were in this publication along with poems, metaphysical texts and essays on great minds like Jesus, Rama, Hugo, Pythagoras, Ganesha and Thalès de Milet. A few articles or reports appeared in the French papers \"L’Indépendant\" and \"Midi Libre\" recounting public conferences organized by France-Inde of Perpignan. This mainly quarterly magazine flourished for seven years, until its twenty-fourth publication.\"\n\nIn 1954, under the title, \"François Brousse le poète aux cent visages\" [(François Brousse, the Poet with a Hundred Faces) (Ed. Labau, Perpignan)], René Espeut, for whom \"Brousse's poetry continually streams into the vapors of transcendent esoterism\" published the first study dedicated to Brousse's poetic works.\n\nA broadcast discussion, entitled \"François Brousse, l'Alchimiste du Rêve\" (François Brousse, the Alchemist of Dreams), dedicated to the poet's last book accompanied the study exalting the complete works of Brousse (J. D., magazine \"Tramontane\", Perpignan, No. 370, July–August 1954).\n\nOn October 25, 1960, Claude Van Dyck honored the poet in Perpignan at the \"Maison du Prisonnier\" with a conference called \"Sous le signe de la Poésie, de la Science et de la Philosophie, François Brousse, astronome, poète et métaphysicien\" (Through Poetry, Science and Philosophy, François Brousse, the Astronomer, Poet and Metaphysician). The third part of this conference was published in the magazine, \"Sources Vives\" (Perpignan, No. 18, Winter 1961).\n\nClaude Van Dyck, a friend of François Brousse since 1951, gave four other similar conferences in homage to François Brousse. The last to date was in Paris on May 25, 1982, and was called \"Le génie de François Brousse, sous le triple signe de l’Astronomie, de la Poésie, de la Philosophie\" (The genius of François Brousse through the tree disciplines of Poetry, Science and Philosophy) with Arthur Conte (who became the representative of the Oriental Pyrenees) giving the introduction and closing. A. Conte, a historian and novelist who saw François Brousse as \"passionate about the great mysteries of thought, inspiration, illumination and the universe,\" awarded him the \"plume d’or\" (The Golden Pen Award).\n\nIn May 1968, François Brousse as philosophy professor wrote a jarring article that came out in \"L’Indépendant\" (Perpignan) June 1, 1968 and was called \"Le Réveil de l’Individualisme\" (The Awakening of Individualism). In this composition, he rejected all idols and fiercely defended the right and necessity to be free and happy :\n\n\"\"The rise of this earthquake is due to the awakening of the buried giant: individualism. For half a century, we have heard the totalitarian creeds scolding the people, making obedience the ultimate virtue of the nation. ‘Lower your head, slave, and you will be happy. Eat your fare, follow the Government's rules, worship idols and forget your dignity as a free individual!’ The youth responded \"No\" to this demeaning actuality [...].\"\n\n\"Respect for practical people must replace the adoration of bloodthirsty, abstract idols rising from capitalism, Marxism, religion and concepts of God or the Devil! Evidently, freedom designed in this manner becomes the unbreakable axis of evolution. A great purifying wind will carry economic or professional feudal systems away. I am particularly thinking of the \"Ordre National des Médecins\" (French Medical Association), which is a remnant of the Nazi occupation and dictates over all medical practitioners, preventing them from freely healing their patients and restricts rapidly expanding independent research. [...] Neither science nor realism is enough to make people happy. We were aiming for well-being but lacked joy and lost our freedom.\"\"\n\nThe Ordre des Médecins with Georges Baillat, the President of its Departmental Counsel, did not delay in publishing their response in the June 6th, 1968 edition of L’Indépendant (Perpignan).\n\nFrançois Brousse's name was first transmitted on May 19th, 1953 when René Espeut delivered a radio conference, \"François Brousse l’alchimiste du rêve,\" from the antennas of \"Radiodiffusion Nationale\" (the French National Radio) mainly drawing from Brousse's book, \"Les Pèlerins de la nuit\" (The Night Pilgrims) (René Espeut, \"François Brousse le poète aux cent visages\", Ed. Labau, Perpignan, 1954).\n\nIn the beginning of January 1979, Brousse participated in the broadcast aired daily by France-Inter \"Tout finit par être vrai, une émission qui sort de l’ordinaire,\" (Everything turns out to be true, a show stepping out of the ordinary) hosted by Henri Gougaud and Jacques Pradel (newspaper \"L’Indépendant\", Perpignan, January 8, 1979).\n\nFrom 1983, Brousse more frequently appeared on radio interviews, mainly on local channels like \"Radio Force 7\" and \"Radio Cap de la Hève\" (Le Havre, 1983), \"Radio Midi Soleil\" (Perpignan, 1983), \"Radio Évasion\" (Paris, 1985) and \"Radio Bonheur\" (Paris, 1986) to whom he spoke during the Salon des Médecines Douces (Alternative Medicine Exposition) and claimed, \"the greatest remedy for all illness is poetry.\"\n\nIn 1987, along with Martine Roussard, who directed the weekly radio show, \"Conseil en numérologie,\" (Numerology Advice), Brousse was invited to do an interview by \"Radio Bonheur\" in January. Later in June, he was asked to come back to answer questions from the listeners about a show on the \"Mysteries of the Caribbean.\"\n\nIn 1988 Brousse also appeared on the radio station, \"Ici et Maintenant\" (93,6 MHz) for live interviews on subjects such as religion, freedom and the immortality of the soul. He later came back for the December 1989 show \"Science et conscience\" where he drew from the philosophies of Pythagoras, Plato, Plotinus etc. Finally, the last burst of François Brousse's poetry was presented on this radio station from March 1990 to November 1990 with \"Chants dans l'azur\" (Songs in the Blue Sky) for twenty minutes every month.\n\nAt 9 PM on January 12, 1982, the Municipal Theater of Perpignan was showing a play inspired by one of Brousse's poetic works, \"Nourished by the secret of the Being's Dimensions and Mysteries\". Eleven aspiring actors rehearsed for four months under Josy Llop from the Dramatic Arts Conservatory of Perpignan. \"The play did not go unnoticed and was covered by six articles in \"L’Indépendant\" and three in \"Midi Libre\"\" \"The city of Perpignan knew how to honor a poet and a thinker\".\n\nDuring a commemoration honoring the ten years after the Roussillon poet died, on October 25, 2005 (At the Centro Espagnol, Perpignan, 9 PM) Josy Llop embarked on a new play, \"Le Livre des Secrets\" (The Book of Secrets) with eight students from the CNR (the National Conservatory of the Region). The students who were from Perpignan, brilliantly interpreted the thoughts and poems of François Brousse and were accompanied by the soft and calming guitar of Francisco Ortiz.\n\nSerious historical research done by Jean-Pierre Wenger in libraries around France (La Bibliothèque Nationale de France à Paris (The National Library of France in Paris), la Bibliothèque municipale de Perpignan (The Municipal Library of Perpignan), les Archives départementales des Pyrénées Orientales (The Departmental Archives of the Pyrenees), les Archives nationals (The National Archives), etc.) ensured the contributions of an author like François Brousse would never be forgotten from the literary stage of the 20th century :\n\n36 magazines were thus able to release about 320 articles concerning him in some manner and 14 newspapers spoke about him in some 240 articles. Other factors to take into consideration are the eighty books published by the author to this day, a substantial amount of unedited manuscripts, not counting the 400 conferences given around France throughout his life and many other recordings. This all exemplifies the prolific dimensions of this inexhaustible character.\n\nIts proof is when, in 1986 the press in Perpignan became especially interested in François Brousse and consecrated at least four consistent articles with evocative titles :\n\no \"François Brousse, un sage de bonne compagnie\" (François Brousse, a Friendly Sage) (Jacques Queralt, \"L’Indépendant\", Perpignan, August 19, 1986)\n\no \"L’étoile filante de l’ésotérisme\" (The Shooting Star of Esoterism) (Unnamed author, \"Midi Libre\", Perpignan, October 31, 1986)\n\no \"François Brousse l’anarchiste-idéaliste\" (François Brousse, the Anarchist-Idealist (\"Midi Libre\", Perpignan, November 9, 1986)\n\no \"François Brousse, philosophe et visionnaire\" (François Brousse, Philosopher and Visionary) (\"Midi Libre\", Perpignan, December 25, 1986)\n\n\"\"Must we still introduce François Brousse? […] Endowed with a phenomenal memory and level of knowledge, Brousse furthermore separates himself from traditional clairvoyance by this fundamental difference: No consultation office, no speculations about the future. François Brousse goes about like Greek philosophers from many centuries ago. Always surrounded by a loyal entourage, he preaches, makes statements and answers questions. Amongst the privileged meeting areas are cafes, tearooms and reception halls in the largest hotels in Perpignan. But his most certain and consistent meeting point called \"le Cénacle\" is located on the ground floor of 8, rue de la Lanterne in Perpignan. In this place, parables are decrypted from the Bible and books by Hugo, considered by the master as the greatest visionary of the modern era\".\" (magazine \"Midi Libre\", Perpignan, December 25th, 1986)\n\nOther articles were found and presented during the Exposition \"François Brousse, la presse et son œuvre\" (François Brousse, the Press and his Work) at the Perpignan multimedia library (December 2006 – January 2007) amongst which were :\n\no \"Le philosophe sur la terrasse\" (Philosopher on the Terrace) (magazine \"L’Indépendant\", Perpignan, 08-26-1981)\n\no \"François Brousse un philosophe prolifique\" (François Brousse, a Bountiful Philosopher) (magazine \"L’Indépendant\", Perpignan, 04-22-1992)\n\no \"La philosophie dans la rue\" (Street Philosophy) (magazine \"L’Indépendant\", Perpignan, 11-07-1990)\n\no \"François Brousse n’est plus\" (François Brousse is No Longer) (magazine \"L’Indépendant\", Perpignan, November 2, 1995)\n\nHow could an individual such as François Brousse, so well known and acknowledged in Perpignan, slip through the holed net of the national press during of the internationalization of the media? The documentary \"François Brousse un sage de bonne compagnie \"(François Brousse, the Friendly Sage) attempts to give elements of these answers. Far from fame, calculated smiles and handshakes, he would not rest until his entourage had understood his only wish was to be read. May be he believed after all in \"La force du livre\" (The Power of Books)? Uninterested by himself, François Brousse dedicated his book to Perfection and Universal Life. He tried \"to use the last years of his life to awaken individual consciousness.\"\n\nIn 1940 In \"La Cosmogonie des Pa Koua\" (The Cosmogony of Pakuas), Liou Tse Houa pictures the existence of a planet called \"Proserpine\" about 6 billion miles from the Sun, beyond Pluto. In May 1948, François Brousse wrote an article in the magazine Destins (Paris, No. 27) called \"Pluton et les planètes transplutoniennes\" (Pluto and the Transplutonian Planets) in which he suggests the existence of four transplutonian planets : Proserpine, Minerva, Juno and Vesta. This hypothesis is based on the law of Camille Flammarion : \"All periodic comets have their aphelion neighboring the orbit of a planet.\" [Flammarion C., \"Astronomie Populaire\" (Popular Astronomy), Book IV, Ch. IX].\n\nThe above astronomical discoveries made these two seekers partially correct because a celestial body filed under the name \"2003 UB 313\" or \"Xena\" was discovered in 2005 by the American Michael Brown from negatives dating from 2003 (Jean-François Augereau, \"Le système solaire s'enrichit de trois nouvelles planetes, (The Solar System Finds Three New Planets)\" newspaper \"Le Monde\", Paris, August 18, 2006).\n\nIn 1955, four subsequent articles by Brousse appeared in \"L’Indépendant\" (Perpignan): \"L’astronomie des origines à nos jours,\" (Original Astronomy in our Times) a wide fresco of astronomical discoveries and \"À la recherche de mondes nouveaux\"(Seeking New Worlds) where he developed his own hypotheses.\n\nFurthermore, Brousse was not indifferent to news of UFO's that the press diffused between 1952 and 1954. More than fifteen articles on the subject appeared in the newspaper L’Indépendant. \"Non identified flying objects, as the Americans say, furrowed our atmosphere before the noses of officials. This significant event shook up the people.\" (Brousse, \"Soucoupes volantes à travers les âges\", (Flying Saucers Throughout the Ages) newspaper \"Midi Libre\", Perpignan, January 4, 1955). In his article, he considers life on Mars as plausible : \"Is there life on Mars? Why not ?\" (Newspaper \"L’Indépendant\" Perpignan, November 30, 1954). The possibility of life on another planet in our solar system is approached in \"La Lune fille et mère de la Terre\" (The Moon, Daughter and Mother of the Earth with advanced explanations to understand the mysterious lunar relief (magazine \"Sources Vives\", Perpignan, No. 5, April 1958).\n\nIn 1958, still following the law of Flammarion, Brousse enlarged the planetary family with two \"trônes de ténèbres\" (seats of darkness), Bacchus and Hercules, respectively 33.9 and 79.5 billion miles from the Sun (magazine \"Agni\", Perpignan, No. 18, Winter 1958). With flourishing growth, in 1960, he suggested the existence of a new planet named \"Flora\" 18.6 billion miles from the Sun in his book \"De Pythagore à Camille Flammarion\" (From Pythagoras to Camille Flammarion) (magazine \"Sources Vives\", Perpignan, No. 14, Winter 1960). The text builds on his previous writings and follows a hypothesis developed in 1952 by the Italian seismologist Bendandi.\n\nStill mentally agile at the end of his life, he enlarged our solar system to 24 planets whose distances and revolutions are specified in \"La Trinosophie de l’Étoile polaire\" (The Polar Star Trinosophia) (Ed. La Licorne Ailée, Clamart, 1990, pgs. 29-30). He took into account links to nuclear magic numbers and the 24 arcana of the Tarot.\n\nIf there is one book by François Brousse that should be read, it is \"Une Torche aux astres allumée\" (A Torch Lighted by the Stars). Through its pertinent revelations, it is about the life and the mysteries of Pythagoras.\n\nFrom the first lines in the first chapter we learn that Pythagoras had the \"invaluable honor\" of revealing \"the idea of the transmigration of souls, the key to the world.\" We also learn that this was a \"fundamental truth\" to the Hellenes people and to \"Empedocles, Aeschylus, Plato, Virgil, Ovid, Porphyry and Lamblichus, who all drank deeply from this eternal source of truth. The sage Pherecydes, a visionary philosopher, was his master ; he went in search of the Truth in Egypt where he experienced the \"midnight sun and the face of Hermes\" ; he met Ezekiel in Chaldea, a titanic effusion of these \"two poles of the world\" ; that he explored \"the secret sanctuaries of India\" where he \"met the true sages who were perfected men\" ; and that finally, \"he wanted to visit the sages of the Occident, the Druids with golden scythes\" holding \"the sayings of Ogmios.\"\n\nWe also learn that Pythagoras incarnated as Aetalide, the son of Mercury and guider of souls, Euphorbus a Trojan hero, Hermotimus of Clazomenae, and Pyrrhus, a fisherman from Delos, fascinated by this \"sacred island\".\n\nIn \"Une Torche aux astres allumée\", François Brousse questions the fundamentals of science at that time : The impossibility of a particle to go as fast and even less likely, to go faster than the speed of light.\nYet, this impassable threshold was obliterated in 1996 : \"Modern physics holds the speed of light as an insurmountable barrier. A German laboratory has nevertheless succeeded in making a particle travel 4.7 times faster than the speed of light.\"\n\nAfter having anticipated this stage, François Brousse mentions the following step in the same book : \"Once having passed the wall of light, Time and Matter change dimensions. Time, after having reached the zero point, reverses its trajectory and goes back into the past. It enters into a collection of negative numbers. It leaves the future and quiets in destruction. Antimatter is precisely matter in a reversed time line.\"\nHis perspicuous idea furthermore proposes an audacious string of changes: \"Matter transforms into energy, energy into desire, desire into thought and thought into eternity.\"\n\nIn addition to reincarnation and metempsychosis, coexists the concept of parallel lives : In the depths of immensity, there are \"Earths\" with different rotation speeds in the billions of solar systems similar to our own and inhabited with populations similar to us. On these parallel Earths and amongst these peoples are different forms of Me. They are different and yet connected to my multiple being, living their parallel lives. I have a much desired job that is not manifested in your world ; I live in the country of my choice, I marry another companion, I meet the famous painters who I admire, I partake in unthinkable expeditions, I have access to long disappeared books and so on. By doing so, every wish that is born manifests in one of these parallel worlds at that very moment.\n\nThere are at least two purposes of parallel lives tied, according to François Brousse, to the number 777. Firstly, multiple lives on multiple dimensions help eliminate any frustration when we manage to feel it deeply by satisfying our desires in other dimensions. Is this a cheep consolation? \"Why would you want it to be expensive?\" replies François Brousse.\n\nBy considering life in dimension rather than in length, \"past lives\" are no longer successive but simultaneous. In a planet rotating slower than our own, this parallel life occurs in what we consider our past.\nLikewise, if the speed of the parallel planet's rotation is faster than ours, then this parallel life is considered as our future. Someone with a sharp mind could thus explain premonitory dreams and signs as communication from this so-called \"future\" world to our so-called \"present\" world.\n\nParallel worlds are a way to access the fourth dimension and push our \"Here and Now\" consciousness to consider \"Everywhere and Forever.\" It considers the soul to be One and Many and can be compared to a totem pole with 777 juxtaposed faces or better yet, a building with 777 stories, each level occupied by 777 \"Me’s\".\n\"Reality is narrow and possibility is immense,\" Alphonse de Lamartine would say. François Brousse responded, \"I am not something real and isolated but all possibilities realized.\"\n\nFrom the age of fifteen, François Brousse admired Victor Hugo to whom he dedicated the opuscule \"La Poésie de Victor Hugo\" (Victor Hugo's Poetry). After, he discovered the greatness of Victor Hugo who foresaw the First World War particularly with two noteworthy phrases : \"Verdun, premier rempart de la France alarmée\" (Verdun, the first ramparts of an alarmed France) ; \"Enseignons à nos fils à creuser des tranchées\" (Teach our sons to dig in the trenches).\n\nHis in-depth research of Hugo's book allowed him to publish the article, \"Les Tours de la nuit\" (Night Tours) in the May 1939 edition of the magazine Astrosophie. In this article, he announces the fall of the fascist dictators. It was easy for him to recognize the führer Adolf Hitler: \"[…] A man with the eyes of a wolf, nothing to him but his mustache […] \" in the capturing snapshots Victor Hugo gives in \"La Vision de Dante\" within \"La Légende des siècles\" (The Legend of Ages), where a monstrous despot is described in vivid images.\n\nTo complete this historical background, in \"Les Châtiments\", the diatribe entitled \"Ad Majoram Dei Gloriam\" appeared and the threefold Pétainiste slogan \"Work, Family, Patrimony\" magnificently joined with: \"Priests, we will write upon a brilliant flag/ Order, Religion, Property, Family.\"\n\nIn his essay \"Les Secrets kabbalistiques de Victor Hugo\", which pertinently touches on the poet's intimate notes, François Brousse describes Victor Hugo as a \"Prodigious character, a centaur of the infinite, Janus of the incredible world, a siren in the ocean of skies and a tetramorph sphinx lying on the brink of chasms. This unfathomable master appears as such, where all rivers of inspiration cross with the turmoil of glory and rapture.\"\n\nThe cyclical nature of events regulates human life, people, humanities and the cosmos. This cycle connects with the idea of successive lives through which humans fully attain their ultimate ideal in the domains of Wisdom, Love and Beauty and when accomplished, marks the end of their return to Earth.\n\nThe cycles regulate the atom's vortex and the massive take-off of galaxies. [...] History, like all subject areas, follows the law of rhythm. Man breathes. Humanity, which is a Big Man, also breathes. To know the breaths of History is to hold the keys of the future. This is the sign of true prophets from Daniel to Hugo and Nostradamus. [François Brousse, \"Nostradamus ressuscité\" (Nostradamus Resuscitated), vol. 2, Ed. La Licorne Ailée, Clamart, pg. 62]\n\nFrançois Brousse came into the arena of prophesy in May 1939 with the article \"Les tours de la nuit\" in the magazine \"Astrosophie\" (Nice, No. 5). This article was the result of his enthusiastic reflections on prophetic texts by Hugo describing the second world conflict, its outcome and the fall of Fascism.\n\nIn 1940–1945, his constant focus on Nostradamus led to the discovery of historical cycles that not only confirm his previous conclusions but also specify the year of the war's ending in 1945.\n\nUsing the pseudonym Charles Amazan, François Brousse put the great prophecy and hope of Victor Hugo into his own words in 1945 concerning the building of Europe, which he supported [\"L’Avenir des peuples\" (The Future of Humanity), Perpignan].\n\nStill concerning the subject of cycles his article, \"Le secret des tombes royales,\" appeared in the magazine \"Destins\" (Paris, No. 16-27, May 1947 – May 1948). It explains humanity's future throughout the history of the Kings of France with a very critical period around 2015.\n\nAre cycles a force from which we cannot be released ? The answer depends :\n\n\"A man who is alone is free; he can confront the strength of the stars. But a nation, race or group is always enslaved and endures the whims of the heavens. Free will can scarcely delay fatal catastrophes by a few years. Nevertheless, a lucid government driven by sincere pacifism can circumvent the fire. In this case, the passionate warrior agonizes in colonial rule rather than setting the world aflame.\" (François Brousse, magazine \"Destins\", Paris, No. 14, March 1947).\n\nIn 1949, he wrote \"La Prophétie des papes\" (The Prophesy of Popes), which would remain unpublished for about thirty years until 1981. In his eyes, the reduced number of popes in the future would confirm the next end of humanity. In 1965, he came out with \"Les Clés de Nostradamus\" (The Keys of Nostradamus) (magazine \"Sources Vives\", No. 32, Perpignan) in which he announced the departure of General Charles de Gaulle in 1969, four years beforehand.\n\nHis fascination with prophesies drove him to examine a large number of dark texts like the prophesies of Brother Johannes, Saint Odile (1940), Isaïe (1967), Plaisance (1967), Saint Kosmas de l’Étolie, Padre Pio (Conference in Perpignan, 1979), the secret of Fatima (1977, 1980), etc., of which some commentaries appear in \"La septième Erreur de l’humanité\" (The Seventh Error of Humanity) (Ed. La Licorne Ailée, Clamart, 1991).\n\nAt the beginning of the 1980s, he added numerology to the concept of cycles by using the \"theosophical sum\" of an ordinary year to obtain an original prophetic method. Thus during the winter of every year he had the pleasure of creating prophesies for the coming year. These were sometimes published : in the newspaper \"Midi Libre\" (Perpignan, Dec. 30th, 1985; Dec. 27th, 1986; Feb. 4th, 1987), the magazine \"L’Inconnu\" (Paris, No. 117, Feb. 1986) and others.\n\nFrançois Brousse forcefully protested the ambient pessimism foreshadowing a world war for 1983–1984 (magazine \"L’Inconnu\", Paris, 1980 – magazine \"Paris-Match\", Paris, 1982). He also opposed erroneous interpretations of Nostradamus [(\"Le Pape sera-t-il assassiné à Lyon ?\" (Will the Pope be assassinated in Lyon?) in \"Le Monde inconnu\", Paris, No. 75, Sept]. 1986). Finally, he surprisingly announced the year of his own death twenty-three years before its arrival.\n\nIn 1981–1995, François Brousse published accounts of experiences he had had during the spiritual Buddhist celebrations of Wesak in the month of May marking the three main events of Buddha's life (birth, awakening and death).\n\nIn addition to the twenty-four wise men – held in humanity's collective memory of civilization and who work under the arm of Sanat Kumara not from the physical but spiritual and astral dimensions of the Himalayas – all those who are able to travel there in spirit are present. Amida Bouddha – one of the stars of the Buddhist Pantheon – also manifests to deliver a universal message.\n\nTaking into consideration the precession of the equinoxes, François Brousse recommended a new type of astrology called \"Amalekite astrology\" in which the Sun of two signs retrogrades. It is further described in Dan Languillier's book, \"Alpheratz le Navire des étoiles\" (Alpheratz, the Star Navigator).\n\n\"\"The Kabala, a science of universal analogies, the golden and steel links between letters, numbers, ideas, constellations, planets, colors, sounds, flavors, smells, touch, and geometric shapes unfurls a forest of pillars both colossal and magic like a Hindu temple. […] If Hebrew is magnificent, Sanskrit is superhuman, Greek is sublime, Latin is divine and French receives the reflection of the Sun of suns in the wonderful lake of its linguistic essence\".\"\n\nFrom then on François Brousse developed a type of French gematria where every letter corresponds to a number. According to the normal scale set by custom and taken from the depth of cosmic thought: A = 1; B = 2, etc. \"To obtain the number of a word, we must add all the letters to reach the secret sum or the occult murmur. At this point we can see a correspondence with twenty-two major arcana of the Tarot, a book with wondrous pages.\"\n\nDuring special circumstances in 1938, 1953 and 1966 François Brousse channeled a collection of methods linking meditations, breathing techniques and visualizations. He brought them together in \"Le Yoga polaire\" (The Polar Yoga) in which he explains unsuspected powers. \"Through all of these methods, we can, and I repeat, go beyond the entire wheel of our incarnations in one life and soar towards attaining immortality, which burns all our karma and takes us up to the infinite glory of the divine dimension. We must discover our-Self within ourselves\"\n\nFrançois Brousse's literary work can be found in the Bibliothèque nationale de France (the National Library of France in Paris) and all of his books are available from La Licorne Ailée association.\n\nEditions de la Licorne Ailée was founded in 1982 to promote and distribute the work of François Brousse. Older versions of his work before 1982 were generally reedited by Éditions de la Licorne Ailée and if not mentioned otherwise, this edition house also edited works after 1982.\n\nOlder works were compiled and reedited in \"Œuvres poétiques t. I\" (Poetic Works vol. 1) in 1986:\n\n\"Le Poème de la Terre\" (Earth Poem) (1938)\n\n\"La Tour de cristal\" (The Cristal Tower) (1939)\n\n\"Chants dans le ciel\" (Cries in the Sky) (1940)\n\n\"À l’Ombre de l’Antéchrist\" – Poèmes écrits sous l’occupation allemande (At the Shadow before Christ – Poems written under German Occupation) (1945)\n\n\"Le Rythme d’or\" (The Golden Rhythm) (1951)\n\n\"Les Pèlerins de la nuit\" (The Night Pilgrims) (1953)\n\n\"L’Enlumineur des mondes\" (The Enlightener of Worlds) (1954)\n\n\"La Harpe aux cordes de Lune\" (The Harp with Moonlight Chords) (1957)\n\n\"L’éternel Reflet\" (Eternal Reflection) (1963)\n\n\"Hymne à la Joie\" (Hymn to Joy)(1964)\n\nWorks from 1970 to 1975 compiled and reedited in \"Œuvres poétiques t. II\" (Poetic Works vol. 2) in 1988 :\n\n\"Voltiges et vertiges\" – Sonnets psychédéliques (Flutters and Vertigo) (1970)\n\n\"De l’autre Cygne à l’Un\" (From the Other Swan to One) (1973)\n\n\"Murmures magiques\" (Magical Murmurs) (1975)\n\n\"Rama aux yeux de lotus bleu\" (Rama with Lotus Blue Eyes) (1952; 1983)\n\n\"L’Angélus des rêves\" (The Angelus of dreams) (1978; 1989)\n\n\"Ivresses et sommeils\" (Drunkenness and Sleep) (1980; 1989)\n\n\"Au Royaume des oiseaux et des licornes\" (The Kingdom of Birds and Unicorns) (1982)\n\n\"Orphée au front serein\" (Serene Orpheus) (1984)\n\n\"L’Aigle blanc d’Altaïr\" (The White Eagle of Altaïr) (1987)\n\n\"Le Graal d’or aux mille soleils\" (The Golden Grail of a Thousand Suns) (1989)\n\n\"La Rosée des constellations\" (Dew of the Constellations) (1991)\n\n\"Les Transfigurations\" (Transfigurations) (1992)\n\n\"Le Baiser de l’Archange\" (The Kiss of the Archangel) (1993)\n\n\"Le Frisson de l’aurore\" (The Shiver of Dawn) (1993)\n\n\"Les Miroitements de l’Infini\" (The Shimmering Infinite) (1994)\n\n\"Le Chant cosmique de Merlin\" (Merlin's Cosmic Song) (1995)\n\n\"L’Homme aux semelles de tempête\" (The Man with Wandering Feet) (1995)\n\n\"Poèmes de mon lointain matin\" (Poems of my faraway morning) (1995)\n\n\"Rencontre avec l’Être\" (Meeting with the Being) (1995)\n\n\"La Roseraie des fauvettes\" (The Warbler's Rosary) (1997)\n\n\"L’idéale Métamorphose\" (The Ideal Metamorphosis) (1998)\n\n\"Le Sourire de l’astre\" (The Star's Smile) (1998)\n\n\"Fantaisies\" (Fantasies) (2000)\n\n\"Le Refrain de l’Absolu\" (The Chorus of the Absolute) (2001)\n\n\"Le Pas des songes\" (Following Dreams) (2001)\n\n\"Vers l’Ailleurs\" – Anthologie poétique (Towards the Beyond – a Poetic Anthology) (2005)\n\n\"Les Jardins de la Reine Jeanne\" (Queen Jeanne's Gardens) (2006)\n\n\"Le Rire des dieux\" (The Laughing of the Gods) (2006)\n\n\"Vie lyrique\" (Lyric Life) (2006)\n\n\"La Mort du mahatma Gandhi\" (The Death of Mahatma Gandhi) (Éditions de la Neuvième Licorne, 2008)\n\nUnless otherwise mentioned, all the below cited works were published or reedited by Éditions de la Licorne Ailée. The first date gives the first edition and the next date gives the second edition.\n\n\"La Chute de l’aigle allemand\" (The Fall of the German Eagle) (Imp. Sinthe et Co., Perpignan, 1944)\n\n\"L’Avenir des peuples\" – Étude sur les destinées du monde (The Future of Humanity – Study on the World's Destiny) (Imp. Sinthe et Co., Perpignan, 1945)\n\n\"Le Secret des tombes royales\" (The Secret of the Royal Tombs) (1947; 1991)\n\n\"Ezéchiel, mage chaldéen\" (Ezechiel, the Chaldean Magician (1955; reedited in \"Les Secrets kabbalistiques de la Bible\" in 1987)\n\n\"La Lune, fille et mère de la Terre\" (The Moon, Daughter and Mother of the Earth) (1958; 1992)\n\n\"Antoine Orliac, Poète martiniste\" (Antoine Orliac, the Martinist Poet) (magazine Sources Vives, No. 8, Perpignan, Nov. 1958)\n\n\"De Pythagore à Camille Flammarion\" (From Pythagoras to Camille Flammarion) (1960; 1991)\n\n\"Une Torche aux astres a\"llumée (A Torch lighted by the stars) (1961; 1989)\n\n\"Lamennais et le christianisme universel\" (Lamennais and Universal Christianity) (1963)\n\n\"Sub Rosa, pensées sans entrave\" (Sub Rosa, Thoughts with no Limits) (1964)\n\n\"Les Clés de Nostradamus\" (The Keys to Nostradamus) [1965; reedited in \"Nostradamus ressuscité, t. II\" (Nostradamus resuscitated, vol. 2) in 1997]\n\n\"Les Secrets kabbalistiques de la Bible\" (The Kabalistic Secrets of the Bible) (1968; 1987)\n\n\"Zoroastre, l’Apôtre du Soleil\" (Zoroaster, the Apostle of the Sun) (1972; 1989)\n\n\"L’Ordre de l'Étoile polaire et Celui qui vient\" [(The Order of the Polar Star and the Next to Arrive) 1974; reedited in \"La Trinosophie de l'Étoile polaire\" (The Polar Star Trinosophia) in 1990]\n\n\"Isis-Uranie\" [(Isis and Urania) 1976; reedited in \"La Trinosophie de l'Étoile polaire\" (The Polar Star Trinosophia) in 1990]\n\n\"Le double Infini\" [(The double Infinite) (1977; reedited in \"La Trinosophie de l'Étoile polaire\" (The Polar Star Trinosophia) in 1990]\n\n\"René Espeut, biologiste et poète\" (Rene Espeut, Biologist and Poet) (magazine Sources Vives, No. 34, Perpignan, Winter 1979)\n\n\"La Prophétie des papes, miroir du monde\" (The Prophecy of Popes, the Mirror of the World) (1981)\n\n\"Les Visiteurs des millénaires – Le Comte de Saint-Germain, t. I\" (Millennium Visitors – The Tale of Saint-Germain vol. 1) (1982 ; 1990)\n\n\"La Trinosophie de l'Étoile polaire\" (The Polar Star Trinosophia) (1984; 1990)\n\n\"Les Secrets kabbalistiques de Victor Hugo\" (The Kabalistic Secrets of Victor Hugo) (1985)\n\n\"Les Secrets kabbalistiques de la Bible\" (The Kabalistic Secrets of the Bible) (1987)\n\n\"L’Astrosophie, la science divine des étoiles\" (Astrophy, the Divine Science of the Stars) (Éditions Dervy-livre, Paris, 1989)\n\n\"La septième Erreur de l’humanité\" (The Seventh Error of Humanity) (1991)\n\n\"L’Arbre de vie et d’éternité\", une nouvelle forme de Kabbale (The Tree of Life and Eternity, a New Form of Kabbalism) (1992)\n\n\"Le Livre des révélations, t. I et II\" (The Book of Revelations, vol. 1 and 2) (1992)\n\n\"Les Mystères d’Apollon\" (The Mysteries of Apollo) (1992)\n\n\"La Coupe d’Ogmios\" (Ogmios’ Cup) (1993)\n\n\"L’Évangile de Philippe de Lyon\" (The Gospels of Philippe de Lyon) (1994)\n\n\"Par le Soupirail du rêve\" (Through the Cellar Window of Dreams) (1996)\n\n\"Nostradamus ressuscité\" [(Nostradamus Resuscitated) book I (vol. 1) (1996), book II (vol. 2) (1997), book III (vol. 3) (1998)]\n\n\"Le Yoga polaire\" (The Polar Yoga) (1997)\n\n\"Dans la Lumière ésotérique\" (In Esoteric Light) (1999)\n\n\"Commentaires sur l’Apocalypse de saint Jean, t. I\" (Commentaries on Saint John's Apocalypse) (2001)\n\n\"Bulletin du Maître polaire\" – Cours de Métaphysique (A Polar Master's Guide, a Metaphysical Course) – 1992–1993 (éd. 2001) ; 1993–1994 (éd. 2002) ; 1994–1995 (éd. 2003) ; 1995–1996 (éd. 2004) ; 1996–1997 (éd. 2005) ; 1997–1998 (éd. 2006) ; 1998–1999 (éd. 2007) ; 1999–2000 (éd. 2008)\n\n\"Le Manifeste de la Quatrième Dimension\" (The Fourth Dimension Manifesto) (Éditions de la Neuvième Licorne, 2008)\n\n\"Poésie, langage de l'âme\" (Poetry, Language of the Soul) (Éditions de la Neuvième Licorne, 2008)\n\n\"Péhadrita parmi les étoiles\" (Pehadrita in the stars) (1983)\n\n\"L’Abeille de Misraïm\" (Misraim's Bee) (1986)\n\n\"Contes du gouffre et de l’infini\" (Tales of Chasms and the Infinite) (1988)\n\n\"François Brousse l’Enlumineur des mondes\" (François Brousse, The Enlightener of Worlds) by Jean-Pierre Wenger, Ed. Danicel productions, Saint-Cloud, 2005. This biography required over five years of research and made it possible to communicate the worth of this author's contribution to twentieth century literature.\n\nhttp://www.danicel.com/brousse-biographie/index.htm\n\nConservatoire National de Région de Perpignan (National Conservatory of the Perpignan Region)\n\no Montage poétique (Poetic Assembly) (1982): 1 interpretation in Perpignan – Staging by Josy Llop-Borrelli\n\no Le Livre des secrets (The Book of Secrets) (2005–2006): 2 interpretations in Perpignan – Staging by Josy Llop-Borrelli\n\nProduction of La Licorne Ailée (92 140, Clamart)\n\no Histoire d’une âme (History of a Soul) (1985–1988): 7 interpretations in Paris, Boulogne-sur-Mer and Perpignan\n\no Le Chant intérieur (The Inner Song) (1987): 1 interpretation in Paris\n\no Devant l’Éternité du Nil (Before the Eternity of the Nile) (1988–1998): 7 interpretations in Paris, Minieh-Égypte, Druyes-sur-Yonne and Montpellier\n\no Les Maîtres de l’âme (Masters of the Soul) (1989) : 1 interpretation in Paris\n\no Rama aux yeux de lotus bleu (Rama with the Lotus Blue Eyes) (1993–1996): 4 interpretations in Paris and surrounding areas\n\no Mahatma Gandhi (Mahatma Gandhi) (2008–2009): 2 interpretations in Perpignan and Castelnau-le-Lez – Staging by Jean-Jacques Charrière\n\nProduction of La Compagnie Artistique Soleil (38 000, Grenoble)\n\no Cœur d’une âme (The Heart of a Soul) (1988) : 1 interpretation in Perpignan\n\no Voyage à travers le temps et les arts (Journey through time and art) (1988) : 2 interpretations in Grenoble\n\no Poèmes et danses sacrés du ciel et de la Terre (Poems and Sacred Dances of the Sky and Earth) (1990) : 1 interpretation in Perpignan\n\no Akh-en-Aton, pharaon soleil (Akh-en-Aton, the Sun Pharaoh) (1991–1994) : 4 interpretations in Grenoble and Montpellier\n\nProduction of La Compagnie de l’Étoile (75 014, Paris)\n\no La Vénus de Milo (Milo's Venus) (1997–2005) : 17 interpretations in Paris, Villefranche-sur-Saône, Montpellier and Avignon (Festival OFF 1997) – Staging by Jean-Jacques Charrière\n\no Le Poème de la Terre (Earth Poem) (1999–2000) : 14 interpretations in Paris, Montpellier and Avignon (Festival OFF 1999) – Staging by Jean-Jacques Charrière\n\no Les Pages de l’amour (The Pages of Love) (1999–2000): 4 interpretations in Paris, Montpellier and Lyon) – Staging by Zahia Lebtahi\n\no Regard d’ange (The Look of an Angel) (2000–2001) : 11 interpretations in Paris – Staging by Thierry Devaye\n\no Le Chant cosmique de Merlin (Merlin's Cosmic Song) (2005) : 1 interpretation in Paris\n\no La Mésaventure de Méphistophélès (Mephistophele's Misfortune) (2006–2007) : 21 interpretations in Perpignan and Paris – Staging by Jean-Jacques Charrière\n\no Gandhi, l’astre des sages (Gandhi, the Star of the Sages) (2007–2008) : 19 interpretations in Paris and Avignon (Festival OFF 2008) – Staging by Elisabeth Martin-Chabot\n\nThe Compagnie de l’Étoile organized a commemoration at the Centro Espagnol of Perpignan on the 25th and 26 October 2005 on François Brousse's inspiration at the ten-year anniversary of his death (October 25, 1995). This event was covered by the press in Perpignan and commemorated the Roussillonnais philosopher with a documentary \"François Brousse évoqué par ses amis\" (François Brousse from the Eyes of his Friends), a François Brousse Exposition, his works and the press, numerous conferences, talks, impromptu poetry and the appearance of a biography, \"François Brousse l'Enlumineur des Mondes\" (François Brousse, the Enlightener of Worlds).\n\n\"François Brousse, son œuvre et la presse\" (François Brousse, his Work and the Press) (Production of La Compagnie de l’Étoile) was the exposition, which took place at the Médiathèque de Perpignan (Multimedia Library of Perpignan) from Dec. 2006 – Jan. 2007 on this vivid character, \"one amongst the 500 others who had significance to the Roussillon region\" according to \"La Semaine du Roussillon\" (No. 500, Nov. 2005).\n\n\"François Brousse évoqué par ses amis\" (François Brousse in the Eyes of his Friends), a 45-minute documentary directed by Thomas Harlay and produced by La Compagnie de l’Étoile, Suresnes, 2005. Its first screening appeared in 2005 at the Centro Espagnol of Perpignan during the ten-year commemoration of François Brousse's death.\n\n\"François Brousse un sage de bonne compagnie\" (François Brousse, the Friendly Sage), an 80-minute documentary directed by Thomas Harlay and produced by La Compagnie de l’Étoile, Paris, 2009. First appearance during the Exposition of François Brousse, his work and the press at the Médiathèque de Perpignan in Dec. 2006. The film was finalized in April 2009.\n\nA DVD of \"François Brousse un sage de bonne compagnie\" (Made available the fourth quarter of 2009), contains these two films.\n"}
{"id": "54189599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54189599", "title": "Fritz Medicus", "text": "Fritz Medicus\n\nFritz Medicus (April 23, 1876 – January 13, 1956) was a German-Swiss philosopher. He was awarded his doctorate while studying in Jena, with the publication of his dissertation, \"Kant's transcendental aesthetics and non-euclidian geometry\". He was the Chair of Philosophy at the Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg, and moved to ETH Zurich in 1911. Medicus wrote in the tradition of German idealism.\n\n"}
{"id": "3424213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3424213", "title": "God and gender in Hinduism", "text": "God and gender in Hinduism\n\nIn Hinduism, there are diverse approaches to conceptualizing God and gender. Many Hindus focus upon impersonal Absolute (Brahman) which is genderless. Other Hindu traditions conceive God as androgynous (both female and male), alternatively as either male or female, while cherishing gender henotheism, that is without denying the existence of other Gods in either gender.\n\nThe Shakti tradition conceives of God as a female. Other Bhakti traditions of Hinduism have both male and female gods. In ancient and medieval Indian mythology, each masculine deva of the Hindu pantheon is partnered with a feminine who is often a devi.\n\nMale and female deities are extensively mentioned in the Vedas. The earliest \"mandalas\" (\"Books\"; the authorship of each \"mandala\" is traditionally ascribed to a particular \"rishi\" or that \"rishi\"'s family) of the Rigveda, estimated to have been composed sometime in the 2nd millennium BCE, invoke and praise both gods and goddesses. \"Ushas\" (\"Goddess of Dawns\") is praised in twenty Hymns of Chapters VI.64, VI.65, VII.78 and X.172, with Hymn VI.64.5 declaring goddess Ushas as the one who must be worshipped first.\n\nGoddesses, other than Ushas, mentioned in early Vedic literature include \"Prthivi\" (earth), \"Aditi\" (mother of gods, abundance), \"Sarasvati\" (river, nourishment), \"Vac\" (sound and speech), and \"Nirrti\" (death, destruction). Similarly male gods feature prominently in the Vedas, with \"Indra\" (rain, lightning), \"Agni\" (fire), \"Varuna\" (rta, law), \"Dyaus\" (sky, virility), \"Savitr\" (\"Surya\", sun), and \"Soma\" (drink) some of the most mentioned. The two deities most mentioned in Rigveda are Indra and Agni, both male. Surya is the third most revered god, again a male. Each is mentioned, anywhere rain and fire is evoked. They are profusely praised, with ceremonies and prayers to all gods and goddesses symbolically organized around fire (Agni yajna). The hymns seek strengthening of fire, and it is god Indra who increases the energy of the fire, while god Surya increases his brightness. Max Muller states that, while there are difference in frequency of mentions, gods and goddesses in Rig veda are \"neither superior nor inferior; almost every one is represented as supreme and absolute\".\n\nGross states that ancient and medieval Hindu literature is richly endowed with gods, goddesses and androgynous representations of God. This, states Gross, is in contrast with several monotheistic religions, where God is often synonymous with \"He\" and theism is replete with male anthropomorphisms. In Hinduism, goddess-imagery does not mean loss of male-god, rather the ancient literature presents the two genders as balancing each other and complementary. The Goddesses in Hinduism, states Gross, are strong, beautiful and confident, symbolizing their vitality in cycle of life. While masculine Gods are symbolically represented as those who act, the feminine Goddesses are symbolically portrayed as those who inspire action. Goddesses in Hinduism are envisioned as the patrons of arts, culture, nurture, learning, arts, joys, spirituality and liberation.\n\nGod is not either male or female concept in ancient Indian literature. Androgynous concepts of god are common place as well.\n\nMost major schools of Hindu philosophy focus their philosophical discourse on the Universal Absolute, called Brahman, which is a grammatically genderless noun. This Universal Absolute, states Zimmer, is \"beyond the differentiating qualifications of sex, beyond any and all limitations, individualizing characteristics whatsoever\". The \"Brahman\" is the Great Cosmic Spirit, the Ultimate True Reality, the Supreme Self. It is a transcendental concept that includes all virtues, forms, genders, characteristics, capacities, knowledge and being-ness. The history of the genderless concept of Brahman, as the omnipresent Absolute Spirit and Supreme Self, can be traced back to Vedas, and extensively in the earliest Upanishads, such as hymns 1.4.10 and 4.4.5 of Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, and hymn 6.2.1 of Chandogya Upanishad 6.2.1.\n\nZimmer clarifies the notion of gender in Sanskrit language and its relation to the concepts of Brahman and God in Hinduism, as follows:\n\nHindu mythology incorporates numerous devas (gods) and devis (goddesses). These are symbolic stories that synthesize God and gender, with ideas and values. The Vishnu Purana, for example, recites one such myth describes male gods and female goddesses with names that is loaded with symbolism. An excerpt of the story is as follows,\n\nThe Smarta tradition, which by and large, follows Advaita philosophy believes all forms, male and female, to be different forms of the impersonal Absolute, Brahman which is of neuter gender and can never be defined.\nBrahman is viewed as without personal attributes (Nirguna Brahman) or with attributes (Saguna Brahman, equated with Ishvara) as God. In Advaita Vedanta, Ishvara is Brahman. Thus according to Smarta views, the divine can be with attributes, Saguna Brahman, and also be viewed with whatever attributes, (e.g., a goddess) a devotee conceives.\n\nIn Vaishnavism and Shaivism, God, Vishnu or Shiva respectively, is personified as male. God, however, transcends gender in these sub-schools, and the male form is used as an icon to help focus the Puja (worship). The use of icons is not restricted to male forms. It takes various forms and shapes. The Shaivites and Vaishnavites worship God in non-anthropomorphic, symbolic male-female images as well, such as the linga-yoni and Saligram respectively. In their literature, the principle of God's true nature as sexless is emphasized as in the Vishnu sahasranama.\n\nThus, the first few names, of Vishnu sahasranama, in particular, do not describe features of Vishnu in detail and hence are not anthropomorphic.\n\nShaktism, on the other hand, is a denomination of Hinduism that worships Shakti, or Devi Mata—the Hindu name for the Great Divine Mother—in all of her forms whilst not rejecting the importance of masculine and neuter divinity (which are however deemed to be inactive in the absence of the Shakti). In pure Shaktism, the Great Goddess, or Devi, is worshiped. N. N. Bhattacharyya explained that \"[those] who worship the Supreme Deity exclusively as a Female Principle are called Shakta.\n\nAlternative interpretations of Shaktism, however—primarily those of Shaivite scholars, such as Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami—argue that the feminine manifest is ultimately only the vehicle through which the masculine Un-manifest Parasiva is ultimately reached.\n\nThe common separation of Sakti and Saktiman, i.e. Female and Male principle in god arrives at the conclusion Sakti and Saktiman are the same. Each and every god has its partner, 'better-half' or Sakti and without this Sakti he is sometimes viewed being without essential power. In some Bhakti schools, devotees of Hinduism worship both genders as a God-pair, rather than a specific gender.\n\nFrom the Vaishnava point of view the divine feminine energy (\"Shakti\") implies a divine source of energy, i.e. God as \"shaktiman\". \"Sita relates to Rama; Lakshmi belongs to Narayana; Radha has Her Krishna.\" The female, in these pairs, is viewed as the source of energy and essence of the male.\n\nOne of the prominent features of Vaishnavism in Manipur, for example, is the worship of the two genders together. Devotees do not worship Krishna alone, or Radha alone, but Radha-Krishna. \"Rasa\" and other dances are a feature of the regional folk and religious tradition and often, for example, a female dancer will portray both 'male' Krishna and his consort, Radha, in the same piece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6016173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6016173", "title": "Gottgläubig", "text": "Gottgläubig\n\nIn Nazi Germany, gottgläubig (literally: \"believing in God\") was a Nazi religious term for those who had officially left Christian churches but kept their faith in a higher power or divine creator. Such people were called \"Gottgläubige\", and the term for the overall movement was \"Gottgläubigkeit\". The term denotes someone who still believes in a God, although without having any institutional religious affiliation. The Nazis were not favourable towards religious institutions, nor did they tolerate atheism on the part of their membership: \"Gottgläubigkeit\" was a kind of officially sanctioned unorganised religion. The 1943 \"Philosophical Dictionary\" defined \"gottgläubig\" as: \"official designation for those who profess a specific kind of piety and morality, without being bound to a church denomination, whilst however also rejecting irreligion and godlessness.\" In the 1939 census, 3.5% of the German population identified as \"gottgläubig\".\n\nIn the 1920 National Socialist Program of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP), Adolf Hitler first mentioned the phrase \"Positive Christianity\". The Party did not wish to tie itself to a particular Christian denomination, but with Christianity in general, and sought freedom of religion for all denominations \"so long as they do not endanger its existence or oppose the moral senses of the Germanic race.\"\n\nWhen Hitler and the NSDAP got into power in 1933, they sought to assert state control over the churches, on the one hand through the Reichskonkordat with the Catholic Church, and the forced merger of the German Evangelical Church Confederation into the Protestant Reich Church on the other. This policy seems to have gone relatively well until late 1936, when a \"gradual worsening of relations\" between the Nazi Party and the churches saw the rise of \"Kirchenaustritt\" (\"leaving the church\"). Although there was no top-down official directive to revoke church membership, some Nazi Party members started doing so voluntarily and put other members under pressure to follow their example. Those who left the churches were designated as \"Gottgläubige\" (\"believers in God\"), a term officially recognised by the Interior Minister Wilhelm Frick on 26 November 1936. He stressed that the term signified political disassociation from the churches, not an act of religious apostasy. The term \"dissident\", which some church leavers had used up until them, was associated with being \"without belief\" (\"glaubenslos\"), whilst most of them emphasised they still believed in God and thus required a different word.\n\nThe Nazi Party ideologue Alfred Rosenberg was the first to leave his church in November 1933, but for the next three years he would be the only prominent Nazi leader to do so. In early 1936, SS leaders Heinrich Himmler and Reinhard Heydrich terminated their membership of the Catholic Church, followed by a number of \"Gauleiter\" including Martin Mutschmann (Saxony), Carl Röver (Weser-Ems) and Robert Heinrich Wagner (Baden). In late 1936, especially Catholic party members left the church, followed in 1937 by a flood of primarily Protestant party members. Hitler himself never repudiated his membership of the Catholic Church; in 1941, he told his General Gerhard Engel: \"I am now as before a Catholic and will always remain so.\"\n\nPeople who identified as \"gottgläubig\" could hold a wide range of religious beliefs, including non-clerical Christianity, Germanic neopaganism, deism, and pantheism. Strictly speaking, \"Gottgläubigen\" were not even required to terminate their church membership, but strongly encouraged to.\n\nBy the decree of the Reich Ministry of the Interior of 26 November 1936, this religious descriptor was officially recognised on government records. The census of 17 May 1939 was the first time that German citizens were able to officially register as \"gottgläubig\". Out of 79.4 million Germans, 2.7 million people (3.5%) claimed to be \"gottgläubig\", compared to 94.5% who either belonged to the Protestant or Catholic churches, 300,000 Jews (0.4%), 86,000 adherents of other religions (including Muslims, Buddhists, Hindus, neopagans and other religious sects and movements, 0.1%), and 1.2 million (1.5%) who had no faith (\"glaubenslos\"). Paradoxically, Germans living in urban areas, where support for the Nazi Party was the lowest, were the most likely to identify as \"gottgläubig\", the five highest rates being found in Berlin (10.2%), Hamburg (7.5%), Vienna (6.4%), Düsseldorf (6.0%) and Essen (5.3%). \n\nThe term still appeared sporadically a few years after the war, and was recognised in the 1946 census inside the French Occupation Zone, before it faded from official documents.\n\n\"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler, himself an ex-Catholic, was one of the main promotors of the \"gottgläubig\" movement. He was hostile towards Christianity, its values, the churches and their clergy. However, Himmler declared: \"As National Socialists, we believe in a Godly worldview.\" He insisted on the existence of a creator-God, who favoured and guided the Third Reich and the German nation, as he announced to the SS: \"We believe in a God Almighty who stands above us; he has created the earth, the Fatherland, and the Volk, and he has sent us the Führer. Any human being who does not believe in God should be considered arrogant, megalomaniacal, and stupid and thus not suited for the SS.\" He did not allow atheists into the SS, arguing that their \"refusal to acknowledge higher powers\" would be a \"potential source of indiscipline\".\n\nHimmler was not particularly concerned by the question how to label this deity; God Almighty, the Ancient One, Destiny, \"Waralda\", Nature etc. were all acceptable, as long as they referred to some \"higher power that had created this world and endowed it with the laws of struggle and selection that guaranteed the continued existence of nature and the natural order of things.\" According to Himmler, \"Only he who opposes belief in a higher power is considered godless\"; everyone else was \"gottgläubig\", but should be thus outside of the church. SS members were put under pressure to identify as \"gottgläubig\" and revoke their church membership, if necessary under the threat of expulsion.\n\nThe SS personnel records show that most of its members who left the church of their upbringing, did so just before or shortly after joining the SS. The Sicherheitsdienst (SD) members were the most willing corps within the SS to withdraw from their Christian denominations and change their religious affiliation to \"gottgläubig\" at 90%. Of the SS officers, 74% of those who joined the SS before 1933 did so, while 68% who joined the SS after 1933 would eventually declare themselves \"gottgläubig\". Of the general SS membership, 16% had left their churches by the end of 1937.\n\n"}
{"id": "213936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213936", "title": "Harriet Martineau", "text": "Harriet Martineau\n\nHarriet Martineau (; 12 June 1802 – 27 June 1876) was a British social theorist and Whig writer, often cited as the first female sociologist.\n\nMartineau wrote many books and a multitude of essays from a sociological, holistic, religious, domestic, and perhaps most controversially, feminine perspective; she also translated various works by Auguste Comte. She earned enough to support herself entirely by her writing, a rare feat for a woman in the Victorian era.\n\nThe young Princess Victoria enjoyed reading Martineau's publications. She invited Martineau to her coronation in 1838 — an event which Martineau described, in great and amusing detail, to her many readers.\n\nMartineau said of her own approach to writing: \"when one studies a society, one must focus on all its aspects, including key political, religious, and social institutions\". She believed a thorough societal analysis was necessary to understand women's status under men.\nThe novelist Margaret Oliphant said \"as a born lecturer and politician [Martineau] was less distinctively affected by her sex than perhaps any other, male or female, of her generation\".\n\nThe sixth of eight children, Harriet Martineau was born in Norwich, England, where her father Thomas was a textile manufacturer. A highly respected Unitarian, he was also deacon of the Octagon Chapel, Norwich from 1797. Harriet's mother was the daughter of a sugar refiner and grocer.\n\nThe Martineau family was of French Huguenot ancestry and professed Unitarian views. Her uncles included the surgeon Philip Meadows Martineau (1752–1829), whom she had enjoyed visiting at his nearby estate, Bracondale Lodge, and businessman and benefactor Peter Finch Martineau. Martineau was closest to her brother James, who became a philosopher and clergyman in the tradition of the English Dissenters. According to the writer Diana Postlethwaite, Harriet's relationship with her mother was strained and lacking affection, which contributed to views expressed in her later writing. Martineau claimed her mother abandoned her to a wet nurse.\n\nHer ideas on domesticity and the \"natural faculty for housewifery\", as described in her book \"Household Education\" (1848), stemmed from her lack of nurture growing up. Although their relationship was better in adulthood, Harriet saw her mother as the antithesis of the warm and nurturing qualities which she knew to be necessary for girls at an early age. Her mother urged all her children to be well read, but at the same time opposed female pedantics \"with a sharp eye for feminine propriety and good manners. Her daughters could never be seen in public with a pen in their hand.\" Her mother strictly enforced proper feminine behaviour, pushing her daughter to \"hold a sewing needle\" as well as the (hidden) pen.\n\nMartineau began losing her senses of taste and smell at a young age, becoming increasingly deaf and having to use an ear trumpet. It was the beginning of many health problems in her life. In 1821 she began to write anonymously for the \"Monthly Repository\", a Unitarian periodical, and in 1823 she published \"Devotional Exercises and Addresses, Prayers and Hymns\".\n\nIn 1829, the family's textile business failed. Martineau, then 27 years old, stepped out of the traditional roles of feminine propriety to earn a living for her family. Along with her needlework, she began selling her articles to the \"Monthly Repository\", earning accolades, including three essay prizes from the Unitarian Association. Her regular work with the \"Repository\" helped establish her as a reliable and popular freelance writer.\n\nIn Martineau's \"Autobiography\", she reflects on her success as a writer and her father's business failure, which she describes as \"one of the best things that ever happened to us\". She described how she could then \"truly live instead of vegetate\". Her reflection emphasizes her experience with financial responsibility in her life while she writes \"[her] fusion of literary and economic narratives\".\n\nHer first commissioned book, \"Illustrations of Political Economy\", was a fictional tutorial intended to help the general public understand the ideas of Adam Smith. \"Illustrations\" was published in February 1832 in an edition of just 1500 copies, since the publisher assumed it would not sell well. Yet it very quickly became highly successful, and would steadily out-sell the work of Charles Dickens. \"Illustrations\" was her first work to receive widespread acclaim, and its success served to spread the free-market ideas of Adam Smith and others throughout the British Empire. Martineau then agreed to compose a series of similar monthly stories over a period of two years, the work being hastened by having her brother James also work on the series with her.\n\nThe subsequent works offered fictional tutorials on a range of political economists such as James Mill, Bentham and Ricardo, the latter especially forming her view of rent law. Martineau relied on Malthus to form her view of the tendency of human population to exceed its means of subsistence. However, in stories such as \"Weal and Woe in Garvelock\", she promoted the idea of population control through what Malthus referred to as \"voluntary checks\" such as voluntary chastity and delayed marriages.\n\nIn the early 19th century, most social institutions and norms were strongly shaped by gender, or the perception of what was appropriate for men versus for women. Writing was no exception; non-fiction works about social, economic and political issues were dominated by men, while limited areas, such as romance fiction, and topics dealing with domesticity were considered to be appropriate for women authors. Despite these gendered expectations in the literary world, Martineau strongly expressed her opinions on a variety of topics.\n\nIn 1832 Martineau moved to London. Among her acquaintances were: Henry Hallam, Harriet Taylor, Alexander Maconochie, Henry Hart Milman, Thomas Malthus, Monckton Milnes, Sydney Smith, John Stuart Mill, Edward Bulwer-Lytton, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Sarah Austin, and Charles Lyell, as well as Jane Welsh Carlyle and Thomas Carlyle. She met Florence Nightingale, Charlotte Brontë, George Eliot and Charles Dickens later on in her literary career.\n\nUntil 1834 Martineau was occupied with her brother James on the political economy series, as well as a supplemental series of \"Poor Laws and Paupers Illustrated and Illustrations of Taxation\" which was intended to directly influence government policy. About the same time, she published four stories expressing support of the Whig Poor Law reforms. These tales (direct, lucid, written without any appearance of effort, and yet practically effective) display the characteristics of their author's style. Tory paternalists reacted by calling her a Malthusian \"who deprecates charity and provision for the poor\", while Radicals opposed her to the same degree. Whig high society fêted her.\n\nIn May 1834 Charles Darwin, on his expedition to the Galapagos Islands, received a letter from his sisters saying that Martineau was \"now a great Lion in London, much patronized by Ld. Brougham who has set her to write stories on the poor Laws\" and recommending \"Poor Laws and Paupers Illustrated\" in pamphlet-sized parts. They added that their brother Erasmus \"knows her & is a very great admirer & every body reads her little books & if you have a dull hour you can, and then throw them overboard, that they may not take up your precious room\".\nIn 1834, after completing the economic series, Harriet Martineau paid a long visit to the United States during which she visited a great many people, some little known, others as famous as James Madison, the former US president, at his home at Montpelier. She also met numerous abolitionists in Boston and studied the emerging schools for the education of girls. Her support of abolitionism, then widely unpopular across the U.S., caused controversy, which her publication, soon after her return, of \"Society in America\" (1837) and \"How to Observe Morals and Manners\" (1838), only fuelled. The two books are considered significant contributions to the then-emerging field of sociology.\n\nIn \"Society in America\", Martineau angrily criticised the state of women's education. She wrote,\nThe intellect of women is confined by an unjustifiable restriction of... education... As women have none of the objects in life for which an enlarged education is considered requisite, the education is not given... The choice is to either be 'ill-educated, passive, and subservient, or well-educated, vigorous, and free only upon sufferance.The publication of Harriet Martineau's \"Illustrations of Political Economy\" found public success. So much success that, \"by 1834, the monthly sales . . . had reached 10,000 in a decade in which a sale of 2,000 or 3,000 copies of a work of fiction was considered highly successful.\"\n\nHer article \"The Martyr Age of the United States\" (1839), in the \"Westminster Review\", introduced English readers to the struggles of the abolitionists in America several years after Britain had abolished slavery.\n\nIn October 1836, soon after returning from the voyage of the \"Beagle\", Charles Darwin went to London to stay with his brother Erasmus. He found him spending his days \"driving out Miss Martineau\", who had returned from her trip to the United States. Charles wrote to his sister, \nOur only protection from so admirable a sister-in-law is in her working him too hard.\" He commented, \"She already takes him to task about his idleness — She is going some day to explain to him her notions about marriage — Perfect equality of rights is part of her doctrine. I much doubt whether it will be equality in practice.The Darwins shared Martineau's Unitarian background and Whig politics, but their father Robert was concerned that, as a potential daughter-in-law, she was too extreme in her politics. Charles noted that his father was upset by a piece in the \"Westminster Review\" calling for the radicals to break with the Whigs and give working men the vote \"before he knew it was not [Martineau's], and wasted a good deal of indignation, and even now can hardly believe it is not hers\". In early December 1836 Charles Darwin called on Martineau and may have discussed the social and natural worlds she was writing about in her book \"Society in America\", including the \"grandeur and beauty\" of the \"process of world making\" she had seen at Niagara Falls. He remarked in a letter, She was very agreeable and managed to talk on a most wonderful number of subjects, considering the limited time. I was astonished to find how little ugly she is, but as it appears to me, she is overwhelmed with her own projects, her own thoughts and own abilities. Erasmus palliated all this, by maintaining one ought not to look at her as a woman.In April 1838 Charles wrote to his older sister Susan that \nErasmus has been with her noon, morning, and night: — if her character was not as secure, as a mountain in the polar regions she certainly would lose it. — Lyell called there the other day & there was a beautiful rose on the table, & she coolly showed it to him & said 'Erasmus Darwin' gave me that. — How fortunate it is, she is so very plain; otherwise I should be frightened: She is a wonderful woman.\n\nMartineau wrote \"Deerbrook\" (1838), a three-volume novel published after her American books. She portrayed a failed love affair between a physician and his sister-in-law. It was considered her most successful novel. She also wrote \"The Hour and the Man: An Historical Romance\" (1839), a three-volume novel about the Haitian slave leader Toussaint L'Ouverture, who contributed to the island nation's gaining independence in 1804.\n\nIn 1839, during a visit to Continental Europe, Martineau was diagnosed with a uterine tumour. She several times visited her brother-in-law, Thomas Michael Greenhow, who was a celebrated doctor in Newcastle upon Tyne, to try to alleviate her symptoms. On the last occasion she stayed for six months in the Greenhow family house at 28 Eldon Square. Immobile and confined to a couch, she was cared for by her mother until purchasing a house and hiring a nurse to aid her.\n\nShe next moved downriver to Tynemouth, where she stayed at Mrs Halliday's boarding-house, 57 Front Street, for nearly five years from 16 March 1840. The establishment is still open as a guest house today, now named the \"Martineau Guest House\" in her honour.\n\nThe critic Diana Postlethwaite wrote of this period for Martineau: Being homebound is a major part of the process of becoming feminine. In this interior setting she (Martineau) is taught the home arts of working, serving, and cleaning, as well as the rehearsals for the role of mothering. She sees her mother... doing these things. They define femininity for her.Her illness caused her to literally enact the social constraints of women during this time.\n\nMartineau wrote at least three books during her illness, and a historical plaque marks this house. A book of short stories for children, \"The Playfellow\", was published in 1841. In 1844 she published both \"Crofton Boys\", a children's novel, and \"Life in the Sickroom: Essays by an Invalid,\" an autobiographical reflection on invalidism. She wrote \"Household Education\" (1848), the handbook on the \"proper\" way to raise and educate children. Lastly, she began working on her autobiography. Completed much later, it included some hundred pages on this period. Notable visitors included Richard Cobden and Thomas and Jane Carlyle.\n\n\"Life in the Sickroom\" is considered to be one of Martineau's most under-rated works. It upset evangelical readers as they \"thought it dangerous in 'its supposition of self-reliance'\". This series of essays embraced traditional womanhood. Martineau dedicated it to Elizabeth Barrett, as it was \"an outpouring of feeling to an idealized female alter ego, both professional writer and professional invalid- and utterly unlike the women in her own family\". Written during a kind of public break from her mother, this book was Martineau's proclamation of independence.\n\nAt the same time, Martineau turned the traditional patient/doctor relationship on its head by asserting control over her space even in sickness. The sickroom was her space. \"Life in the Sickroom\" explained how to regain control even in illness. Alarmed that a woman was suggesting such a position in the power dynamic, critics suggested that, as she was an invalid, her mind must also be sick and the work was not to be taken seriously. \"British and Foreign Medical Review\" dismissed Martineau's piece on the same basis as the critics: an ill person cannot write a healthy work. They thought it was unheard of for a woman to suggest being in a position of control, especially in sickness. Instead, the \"Review\" recommended that patients follow \"unconditional submission\" to the advice of doctors. They disagreed with the idea that Martineau might hold any sort of \"authority to Britain's invalids\".\n\nExpecting to remain an invalid for the rest of her life, Martineau delighted in the new freedom of views using her telescope. Across the Tyne was the sandy beach ″where there are frequent wrecks—too interesting to an invalid... and above the rocks, a spreading heath, where I watch troops of boys flying their kites; lovers and friends taking their breezy walks on Sundays...\" She expressed a lyrical view of Tynemouth:\n\nWhen I look forth in the morning, the whole land may be sheeted with glistening snow, while the myrtle-green sea tumbles... there is none of the deadness of winter in the landscape; no leafless trees, no locking up with ice; and the air comes in through my open upper sash, but sun-warmed. The robins twitter and hop in my flower-boxes... and at night, what a heaven! What an expanse of stars above, appearing more steadfast, the more the Northern Lights dart and quiver!\n\nDuring her illness, she for a second time declined a pension on the civil list, fearing to compromise her political independence. After publication of her letter on the subject, some of her friends raised a small annuity for her soon after.\n\nIn 1844 Martineau underwent a course of mesmerism, returning to health after a few months. There was national interest in mesmerism at this time. Also known as 'animal magnetism', it can be defined as a \"loosely grouped set of practices in which one person influenced another through a variety of personal actions, or through the direct influence of one mind on another mind. Mesmerism was designed to make invisible forces augment the mental powers of the mesmeric object.\" She eventually published an account of her case in sixteen \"Letters on Mesmerism\", which caused much discussion. Her work led to friction with \"the natural prejudices of a surgeon and a surgeon's wife\" (her brother-in-law and sister, Elizabeth Greenhow, née Martineau).\n\nIn 1845 she left Tynemouth for Ambleside in the Lake District, where she designed herself and oversaw the construction of the house called \"The Knoll, Ambleside\", where she spent the greater part of her later life. In 1845 she published three volumes of \"Forest and Game Law Tales\". In 1846, she resided with her elderly mother, Elizabeth, in Birmingham for some time, following which she then toured Egypt, Palestine and Syria with some friends. On her return she published \"Eastern Life, Present and Past\" (1848), in which she reports a breakthrough realization standing on a prominence looking out across the Nile and desert to the tombs of the dead, where \"the deceased crossed the living valley and river\" to \"the caves of the death region\" where Osiris the supreme judge \"is to give the sign of acceptance or condemnation\" (\"Eastern Life, Present and Past\", Complete in One Volume, Philadelphia, 1848, p. 48). Her summary: \"the mortuary ideas of the primitive Egyptians, and through them, of the civilized world at large, have been originated by the everlasting conflict of the Nile and the Desert\".\n\nThis epiphany changed the course of her life. \"Eastern Life\" expressed her concept that, as humanity passed through one after another of the world's historic religions, the conception of the deity and of divine government became at each step more and more abstract and indefinite. She believed the ultimate goal to be philosophic atheism, but did not explicitly say so in the book. She described ancient tombs, \"the black pall of oblivion\" set against the paschal \"puppet show\" in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, and noted that Christian beliefs in reward and punishment were based on and similar to heathen superstitions. Describing an ancient Egyptian tomb, she wrote, \"How like ours were his life and death!... Compare him with a retired naval officer made country gentleman in our day, and in how much less do they differ than agree!\" The book's \"infidel tendency\" was too much for the publisher John Murray, who rejected it. Martineau's biographer, Florence Fenwick Miller, wrote that \"all her best moral and intellectual faculties were exerted, and their action becomes visible, at one page or another\" of this work.\n\nMartineau wrote \"Household Education\" in 1848, lamenting the state of women's education. She believed women had a natural inclination to motherhood and believed domestic work went hand in hand with academia for a proper, well-rounded education. She stated, \"I go further than most persons... in desiring thorough practice in domestic occupations, from an early age, for young girls\". She proposed that freedom and rationality, rather than command and obedience, are the most effectual instruments of education.\n\nHer interest in schemes of instruction led her to start a series of lectures, addressed at first to the school children of Ambleside, but afterward extended to their parents at the request of the adults. The subjects were sanitary principles and practice, the histories of England and North America, and the scenes of her Eastern travels. At the request of the publisher Charles Knight, in 1849 she wrote \"The History of the Thirty Years' Peace, 1816–1846\", an excellent popular history from the point of view of a \"philosophical Radical\". Martineau spanned a wide variety of subject matter in her writing and did so with more assertiveness than was expected of women at the time. She has been described as having an \"essentially masculine nature\". It was commonly thought that a \"progressive\" woman, in being progressive, was improperly emulating the qualities of a man.\n\nMartineau's work included a widely used guide book to the Lake District, \"A Complete Guide to the English Lakes\", published in 1855 and in its 4th edition by 1876. This served as the definitive guidebook for the area for 25 years, effectively replacing the earlier guide by William Wordsworth, and continued in common usage until the publication of Baddeley's \"Thorough Guide to the English Lake District\" in 1880.\nMartineau edited a volume of \"Letters on the Laws of Man's Nature and Development\", published in March 1851. Its epistolary form is based on correspondence between her and the self-styled scientist Henry G. Atkinson. She expounded the doctrine of philosophical atheism, which she thought the tendency of human belief . She did not deny a first cause but declared it unknowable. She and Atkinson thought they affirmed man's moral obligation. Atkinson was a zealous exponent of mesmerism. The prominence given to the topics of mesmerism and clairvoyance heightened the general disapproval of the book. Literary London was outraged by its mesmeric evolutionary atheism, and the book caused a lasting division between Martineau, her beloved brother, James who had become a Unitarian cleric, and some of her friends.\n\nFrom 1852 to 1866, she contributed regularly to the \"Daily News\", writing sometimes six leaders a week. She wrote over 1600 articles for the paper in total. It also published her \"Letters from Ireland\", written during a visit to that country in the summer of 1852. For many years she was a contributor to the \"Westminster Review\"; in 1854 she was among financial supporters who prevented its closing down.\n\nMartineau believed she was psychosomatic; this medical belief of the times related the uterus to emotions and hysteria. She had symptoms of hysteria in her loss of taste and smell. Her partial deafness throughout life may have contributed to her problems. Various people, including the maid, her brother, and Spencer T. Hall (a notable mesmerist) performed mesmerism on her. Some historians attribute her apparent recovery from symptoms to a shift in the positioning of her tumor so that it no longer obstructed other organs. As the physical improvements were the first signs of healing she had in five years and happened at the same time of her first mesmeric treatment, Martineau confidentially credited mesmerism with her \"cure\".\n\nShe continued her political activism during the late 1850s and 1860s. She supported the Married Women's Property Bill and in 1856 signed a petition for it organised by Barbara Bodichon. She also pushed for licensed prostitution and laws that addressed the customers rather than the women. She supported women's suffrage and signed Bodichon's petition in its favour in 1866.\n\nIn the early part of 1855, Martineau was suffering from heart disease. She began to write her autobiography, as she expected her life to end. Completing the book rapidly in three months, she postponed its publication until after her death, and lived another two decades. It was published posthumously in 1877.\n\nWhen Darwin's book \"The Origin of Species\" was published in 1859, his brother Erasmus sent a copy to his old flame Harriet Martineau. At age 58, she was still reviewing from her home in the Lake District. From her \"snow landscape\", Martineau sent her thanks, adding that she had previously praised\nthe quality & conduct of your brother's mind, but it is an unspeakable satisfaction to see here the full manifestation of its earnestness & simplicity, its sagacity, its industry, & the patient power by which it has collected such a mass of facts, to transmute them by such sagacious treatment into such portentous knowledge. I should much like to know how large a proportion of our scientific men believe he has found a sound road.Martineau supported Darwin's theory because it was not based in theology. Martineau strove for secularism stating, \"In the present state of the religious world, Secularism ought to flourish. What an amount of sin and woe might and would then be extinguished.\" She wrote to her fellow Malthusian (and atheist) George Holyoake enthusing, \"What a book it is! – overthrowing (if true) revealed Religion on the one hand, & Natural (as far as Final Causes & Design are concerned) on the other. The range & mass of knowledge take away one's breath.\" To Fanny Wedgwood (the wife of Hensleigh Wedgwood) she wrote,\nI rather regret that C.D. went out of his way two or three times to speak of \"The Creator\" in the popular sense of the First Cause... His subject is the \"Origin of Species\" & not the origin of Organisation; & it seems a needless mischief to have opened the latter speculation at all – There now! I have delivered my mind.\n\nHarriet Martineau propounds political economic theories in \"Illustrations of Political Economy\". She is seen as a frontrunner who merges fiction and economy in a time period when \"fiction claimed authority over emotional knowledge, while economics claimed authority over empirical knowledge\". Moreover, Martineau's text sets the stage for women to enter into economics. For example, Dalley Lana explains that \"by bringing the topic of domestic economy to bear on political economy, Martineau places women more centrally within economic theory and practice. In this context, women – as readers of the \"Illustrations\" and as characters with the tales – are not only rendered a part of larger-scale economics but also (because of their participation) encourage to learn the principles of political economy.\"\n\nAs early as 1831, Martineau wrote on the subject \"Political Economy\" (as the field of economics was then known). Her goal was to popularise and illustrate the principles of \"laissez faire\" capitalism, though she made no claim to original theorising.\n\nMartineau's reflections on \"Society in America\", published in 1837, are prime examples of her sociological methods. Her ideas in this field were set out in her 1838 book \"How to Observe Morals and Manners\". She believed that some very general social laws influence the life of any society, including the principle of progress, the emergence of science as the most advanced product of human intellectual endeavour, and the significance of population dynamics and the natural physical environment.\n\nAuguste Comte coined the name sociology and published a rambling exposition under the title of \"Cours de Philosophie Positive\" in 1839. Martineau undertook a translation that was published in two volumes in 1853 as \"The Positive Philosophy of Auguste Comte (freely translated and condensed by Harriet Martineau)\". It was a remarkable achievement, and a successful one; Comte recommended her volumes to his students instead of his own. Some writers regard Martineau as the first female sociologist. Her introduction of Comte to the English-speaking world and the elements of sociological perspective in her original writings support her credit as a sociologist.\n\nHarriet Martineau died of bronchitis at \"The Knoll\" on 27 June 1876. She was buried alongside her mother in Key Hill Cemetery, Hockley, Birmingham. The following April, at Bracondale, her cousin's estate, much of Martineau's extensive art collection was sold at auction.\n\nHer name is listed on the east face of the Reformers Memorial in Kensal Green cemetery in London.\n\nShe left an autobiographical sketch to be published by the \"Daily News\", in which she wrote:\nHer original power was nothing more than was due to earnestness and intellectual clearness within a certain range. With small imaginative and suggestive powers, and therefore nothing approaching to genius, she could see clearly what she did see, and give a clear expression to what she had to say. In short, she could popularize while she could neither discover nor invent.\n\nIn 1877 her autobiography was published. It was rare for a woman to publish such a work, let alone one secular in nature. Her book was regarded as dispassionate, \"philosophic to the core\" in its perceived masculinity, and a work of necessitarianism. She deeply explored childhood experiences and memories, expressing feelings of having been deprived of her mother's affection, as well as strong devotion to her brother James Martineau, a theologian.\n\nAnthony Giddens and Simon Griffiths argue that Martineau is a neglected founder of sociology and that she remains important today. She taught that study of the society must include all its aspects, including key political, religious and social institutions, and she insisted on the need to include the lives of women. She was the first sociologist to study such issues as marriage, children, religious life, and race relations. Finally, she called on sociologists to do more than just observe, but also work to benefit the society.\n\nIn February 2014, it was reported that London's National Portrait Gallery held several portraits of Harriet, whose great nephew, Francis Martineau Lupton, was the great–great–grandfather of Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, the gallery's patron. Harriet was close to her niece Frances Lupton, who worked to open up educational opportunities for women.\n\nA large number of letters of Harriet Martineau are held in the University of Birmingham's Special Collections.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12985069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12985069", "title": "Harvey Brown (philosopher)", "text": "Harvey Brown (philosopher)\n\nHarvey R. Brown, FBA (born April 4, 1950 in the United Kingdom) is a philosopher of physics. He is emeritus professor of philosophy at the University of Oxford and a Fellow of Wolfson College, Oxford, as well as a Fellow of the British Academy.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1984, he was assistant professor at the University of São Paulo. In 1984 he became university lecturer in philosophy of physics at the University of Oxford, where he was promoted to reader in philosophy in 1996 and professor of philosophy of physics in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "34597292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34597292", "title": "Heiner Bielefeldt", "text": "Heiner Bielefeldt\n\nHeiner Bielefeldt (April 12, 1958) is a German philosopher, historian and Catholic theologian. He is Professor of Human Rights and Human Rights Policy at the University of Erlangen. In 2010, he was appointed United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief.\n\nBielefeldt studied philosophy and Catholic Theology at Bonn University und Tübingen University, which he completed in 1981 and 1982 respectively. Afterwards, he took a third undergraduate degree in history from Tübingen University in 1988. In 1989 he received his PhD in Philosophy from the University of Tübingen with a thesis on social contract theories.\n\nHe then worked until 1995 at the Faculty of Law at the University of Heidelberg. As a recipient of an Alexander-von-Humboldt Fellowship, he spent 1993/94 at the Faculty of Law and the Department of Philosophy of the University of Toronto. In February 2000, he took his post-doctoral habilitation degree in philosophy from the University of Bremen.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2009, Bielefeldt served as Director of the German Institute for Human Rights, which monitors the human rights situation inside Germany.\n\nIn 2009, Bielefeldt was appointed professor in the newly created Chair of Human Rights and Human Rights Policy at the University of Erlangen. Bielefeldt teaches in the areas of political science, philosophy, law and history.\n\nOn June 18, 2010, Bielefeldt was appointed United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3358506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3358506", "title": "Insight phenomenology", "text": "Insight phenomenology\n\nInsight is a sudden understanding of a problem or a strategy that aids in solving a problem. Usually, this involves conceptualizing the problem in a completely new way. Although insights may appear to be sudden, they are actually the result of prior thought and effort. While insight can be involved in solving well-structured problems, it is more often associated with ill-structured problems. \n\n\nWhen people solve, or attempt to solve an insight puzzle, they experience a common phenomenology, that is, a set of behavioural properties that accompany problem-solving activity (for a useful edited review of insight problems and their phenomenology, see Sternberg & Davidson, 1995). Other kinds of puzzle, such as the Tower of Hanoi, an example of a transformation problem, tend not to yield these phenomena. The phenomena may include:\n\n\nMax van Mannen proposed the so-called insight cultivators to obtain thematic insights when studying a phenomenon or phenomenological topic or event. This framework holds that insights can be obtained from philosophic, humanities, and human sciences sources. The idea is that the works of artists, scholars, and philosophers help us gain understanding about our own lived experiences. There is the view that this process can yield phenomenological anecdotes that can trigger an understanding that is beyond or more effective than what we could grasp intellectually because of the creative insights and understanding of a phenomenon.\n\nInsight cultivators can also lead to innovative or unique insights because they allow an evaluation of previous literature and experiences that reveal what has worked, what needs improvement, or what is wrong. The insights gleaned can allow us to identify a new way of looking at a phenomenon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "649572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649572", "title": "John Hopfield", "text": "John Hopfield\n\nJohn Joseph Hopfield (born July 15, 1933) is an American scientist most widely known for his invention of an \"associative neural network\" in 1982. It is now more commonly known as the Hopfield Network.\n\nHopfield was born in 1933 to Polish physicist John Joseph Hopfield and his physicist wife Helen Hopfield. Helen was the older Hopfield's second wife. He is the sixth of Hopfield's children and has three children and six grandchildren of his own.\n\nHe received his A.B. from Swarthmore College in 1954, and a Ph.D in physics from Cornell University in 1958 (supervised by Albert Overhauser). He spent two years in the theory group at Bell Laboratories, and subsequently was a faculty member at University of California, Berkeley (physics), Princeton University (physics), California Institute of Technology (Chemistry and Biology) and again at Princeton, where he is the Howard A. Prior Professor of Molecular Biology, Emeritus. For 35 years, he also continued a strong connection with Bell Laboratories.\n\nIn 1986 he was a co-founder of the Computation and Neural Systems PhD program at Caltech.\n\nHis most influential papers have been \"The Contribution of Excitons to the Complex Dielectric Constant of Crystals\" (1958), describing the polariton; \"Electron transfer between biological molecules by thermally activated tunneling\" (1974), describing the quantum mechanics of long-range electron transfers; \"Kinetic Proofreading: a New Mechanism for Reducing Errors in Biosynthetic Processes Requiring High Specificity\" (1974); \"Neural networks and physical systems with emergent collective computational abilities\" (1982) (known as the Hopfield Network) and, with D. W. Tank, \"Neural computation of decisions in optimization problems\" (1985). His current research and recent papers are chiefly focused on the ways in which action potential timing and synchrony can be used in neurobiological computation.\n\nHe was awarded the Dirac Medal of the ICTP in 2002 for his interdisciplinary contributions to understanding biology as a physical process, including the proofreading process in biomolecular synthesis and a description of collective dynamics and computing with attractors in neural networks, and the Oliver Buckley Prize of the American Physical Society for work on the interactions between light and solids. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He received the Albert Einstein World Award of Science in 2005. He was the President of the American Physical Society in 2006.\n\nHis former PhD students include Sir David MacKay, Terry Sejnowski, Bertrand Halperin, Steven Girvin, Erik Winfree and José Onuchic.\n\n"}
{"id": "608655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608655", "title": "John Macmurray", "text": "John Macmurray\n\nJohn Macmurray MC (16 February 1891 – 21 June 1976) was a Scottish philosopher. His thought moved beyond the modern tradition begun by Descartes and continued in Britain by Locke, Berkeley and Hume. He made contributions in the fields of political science, religion, education, and philosophy in a long career of writing, teaching, and public speaking. After retirement he became a Quaker.\n\nMacmurray was born on 16 February 1891 in Maxwelltown in Kirkcudbrightshire, Scotland, into a strict Presbyterian family. His father was employed by the Inland Revenue Department as an excise officer. In 1899 the family moved to Aberdeen, where the young Macmurray attended Aberdeen Grammar School (1903 to 1905) and Robert Gordon's College (1905 to 1909). He was educated at the University of Glasgow, earning First-class honours in Classics and was awarded a Snell Exhibition to attend Balliol College, Oxford in 1913. His tutor at Balliol was A. D. Lindsay.\nWhen war with Germany was declared in 1914, Macmurray enlisted in the Royal Army Medical Corps. In August 1915 he was sent to France with the 58th Field Ambulance as part of the 19th (Western) Division of the British Expeditionary Force. In June 1916 he was awarded a commission as Second Lieutenant in the Queen's Own Cameron Highlanders and was sent to the Battle of the Somme. Macmurray married Elizabeth Hyde Campbell in London during a three-day leave in October 1916. He was seriously wounded in battle near Arras on 28 March 1918 and was awarded the Military Cross for gallantry.\n\nWhile on leave recovering from a broken ankle in 1917, Macmurray was invited to give a sermon in an unidentified North London church. He preached on the importance of preparing for post-war reconciliation with the enemy rather than exacting vengeance. The sermon was coldly received by the congregation and Macmurray saw their reaction as indicating a lack of true Christianity in the institutional churches. Because of this experience, Macmurray determined not to be a member of any church, while continuing to maintain his strong Christian convictions.\n\nAfter the war, Macmurray completed his studies at Balliol, obtaining a distinction in the Shortened Honours Course of Literae Humaniores in 1919, as well as winning in the John Locke Scholarship in Mental Philosophy in the same year. He worked as a Lecturer in Philosophy at the University of Manchester from 1919 to 1920, followed by two years as Chair of Philosophy at the University of the Witwatersrand in South Africa. In 1922 he returned to Balliol as a Fellow and Tutor, succeeding his former tutor A.D. Lindsay as Jowett Lecturer in Philosophy. He left Oxford to become Grote Professor of Mind and Logic at University College London, the position he held from 1928 to 1944. He then moved to the University of Edinburgh, where he held the Chair of Moral Philosophy until his retirement in 1958.\n\nMacmurray and his wife had no children. After his retirement, they moved to the village of Jordans, Buckinghamshire, where they both joined the Society of Friends. In 1970 they returned to Edinburgh, where Macmurray died on 21 June 1976.\n\nThe main themes in Macmurray's philosophy are the primacy in human life of action over theory, and the essentially relational nature of human beings. These themes are the basis for his Gifford Lectures delivered in 1953 and 1954 at the University of Glasgow, and entitled \"The Self as Agent\" and \"Persons in Relation\" respectively. The overall title given to the two lecture series was \"The Form of the Personal\". Macmurray summed up his philosophy in the introduction to \"The Self as Agent\": \"The simplest expression that I can find for the thesis I have tried to maintain is this: All meaningful knowledge is for the sake of action, and all meaningful action for the sake of friendship\".\n\nMacmurray rejected mind-body dualism and argued that the nature of human beings is personal, rather than mechanical or organic. He argued for the importance of emotion as motivating action, and looked to infancy and early childhood for evidence of the universal desire for relationship. He distinguished between society and community, with society being for organizations to achieve particular purposes, while community is an end in itself.\n\nIn dismissing the Cogito and its legacy of the primacy of thought over action, Macmurray saw himself as breaking with the western philosophical tradition. However, he acknowledged the influence of Kant and Marx on his thinking, along with Christianity. On the other hand, he had no sympathy for, and did not engage with, the type of academic philosophy that was dominant during the latter part of his career.\n\nHis friendship with the educator Kenneth C. Barnes resulted in his becoming a governor of Wennington School.\n\nHe was well known in Britain before World War II for his BBC radio broadcasts on philosophy, some of which were published in his first book, \"Freedom in the Modern World\" (1932).\n\nMacmurray' s work has been largely neglected in academic philosophy. However, he has been influential in other fields, including theology and psychology. Recent years have seen the publication of the first full-length biography and a book-length critical study of his religious philosophy, as well as volumes of selections from his works and books and articles about his work. Tony Blair contributed the foreword to one of the anthologies, in which he described Macmurray's philosophy as \"immensely modern... in the sense that he confronted what will be the critical political question of the twenty-first century: the relationship between individual and society\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2978965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978965", "title": "Juan Donoso Cortés", "text": "Juan Donoso Cortés\n\nJuan Donoso Cortés, marqués de Valdegamas (6 May 1809 – 3 May 1853) was a Spanish author, conservative and Catholic political theorist, and diplomat. He was a descendant, through his father Pedro Donoso Cortés, of the conquistador Hernando Cortés.\n\nCortés was born at Valle de la Serena (Extremadura). At 11, he had finished his education in the humanities, and at 12, he had begun the study of law at the University of Salamanca; at 16, he received his degree of licentiate from the University of Seville, and at 18, he became professor of literature at the College of Caceres.\n\nCarried away by the rationalism prevalent in Spain following upon the French invasions, he ardently embraced the principles of Liberalism and fell under the influence of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, whom he later characterized as \"the most eloquent of sophists\".\n\nHe entered politics as an ardent liberal under the influence of Manuel José Quintana. His views began to modify after the rising at La Granja, approaching a counterrevolutionary outlook and became more marked on his appointment as private secretary to the Queen Regent. His political thought found its most lucid and orderly expression in his \"Lecciones de Derecho Politico\" (1837).\n\nAlarmed by the proceedings of the , Donoso Cortés issued his \"Ensayo Sobre el Catolicismo, el Liberalismo, y el Socialismo Considerados en sus Principios Fundamentales\" (1851), was written at the instance of Louis Veuillot, who was an intimate friend of the author and places Cortés in the first rank of Catholic apologists and especially Ultramontanism. It is an exposition of the impotence of all human systems of philosophy to solve the problem of human destiny and of the absolute dependence of humanity upon the Catholic Church for its social and political salvation.\n\nThe \"Ensayo\" failed to arrest the movement fully against which it was directed, but, it remains amongst the finest specimen of political prose published in Spain during the 19th century.\n\nHe became ambassador at Paris and died there on 3 May 1853.\n\nDonoso Cortés's works were collected in five volumes at Madrid (1854–1855) under the editorship of Gavino Tejado.\n\nIn his \"Political Theology\" (1922), political philosopher Carl Schmitt devotes large portions of his final chapter (\"On the Counterrevolutionary Philosophy of the State\") to Donoso Cortés, praising him for recognizing the importance of the decision and of the concept of sovereignty.\n\n\n\n\"True progress consists in submitting the human element which corrupts liberty, to the divine element which purifies it. Society has followed a different path in looking upon the empire of faith as dead; and in proclaiming the empire of reason and the will of man, it has made evil, which was only relative, contingent and exceptional, absolute, universal, and necessary. This period of rapid retrogression commenced in Europe with the restoration of pagan literature, which has brought about successively the restoration of pagan philosophy, religious paganism, and political paganism. At the present time the world is on the eve of the last of these restorations, – that of pagan socialism.\" (Letter to Montalembert, June 4, 1849.)\n\n\"It follows from this that the Church alone has the right to affirm and deny, and that there is no right outside her to affirm what she denies, or to deny what she affirms. The day when society, forgetting her doctrinal decisions, has asked the press and the tribune, news writers and assemblies, what is truth and what is error, on that day error and truth are confounded in all intellects, society enters on the regions of shadows, and falls under the empire of fictions…\"\n\n\"The doctrinal intolerance of the Church has saved the world from chaos. Her doctrinal intolerance has placed beyond question political, domestic, social, and religious, truths—primitive and holy truths, which are not subject to discussion, because they are the foundation of all discussions; truths which cannot be called into doubt for a moment without the understanding on that moment oscillating, lost between truth and error, and the clear mirror of human reason becoming soiled and obscured…\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40008104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40008104", "title": "Liberal naturalism", "text": "Liberal naturalism\n\nLiberal naturalism is a heterodox form of metaphysical naturalism that lies in the conceptual space between scientific (or reductive) naturalism and supernaturalism. It allows that one can respect the explanations and results of the successful sciences without supposing that the sciences are our only resource for understanding humanity and our dealings with the world and each other.\n\nThe term was introduced in 2004 by Mario De Caro & David Macarthur and, independently, by Gregg Rosenberg. This form of naturalism has been ascribed to Immanuel Kant.\n\nFor a liberal naturalist many things in our everyday world that are not explicable (or not fully explicable) by science are, nonetheless, presupposed by science—e.g. tables, persons, artworks, institutions, rational norms and values. Explaining such things might require non-scientific non-supernatural resources according to this form of naturalism. So, rather than tailoring their ontology to the posits of the successful sciences, as scientific naturalists do, liberal naturalists recognise the prima facie irreducible reality of everyday objects that are part of what Wilfrid Sellars called \"the manifest image\".\n\nLiberal naturalism is a \"liberal\" or \"catholic\" naturalism for several reasons each of which contrasts with scientific naturalist orthodoxy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20345946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20345946", "title": "List of ancient Egyptian scribes", "text": "List of ancient Egyptian scribes\n\nA List of Egyptian scribes, almost exclusively from the Ancient Egyptian periods.\n\n\nList of scribes, especially starting with the Old Kingdom of Ancient Egypt.\n\nScribes from the Theban Tombs.\n\nScribes honored with a Block statue (Egyptian). (The original \"block statue\" started with the Tomb of Hetep, Saqqara, 12th dynasty as two cuboid statues, one each of granite and limestone, and inscriptions explaining the block form, and exposed limbs receiving the first rays of the morning sun-(to arise out of primordial earth). The granite statue represents the daytime sunlit journey, the limestone the night.)\n\n\n\n\n\nFor Hesy-Ra:\n"}
{"id": "14003069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14003069", "title": "List of environmental philosophers", "text": "List of environmental philosophers\n\nA list of environmental philosophers, ordered alphabetically, which includes living or recently deceased individuals who have published in the field of environmental ethics/philosophy (most of whom have PhDs in Philosophy, and are employed as philosophy professors), and those who are commonly regarded as precursors to the field.\n\nEnvironmental philosophy has been impacted by individuals with a range of backgrounds, reminiscent of the approach of the natural philosophy, natural religion, and natural history traditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25056824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25056824", "title": "List of teachers of Nyaya", "text": "List of teachers of Nyaya\n\nThis is a list of teachers of Nyaya (including \"Navya-Nyāya\"), one of the six \"astika\" Hindu philosophical systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38720092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38720092", "title": "Manuel Curado", "text": "Manuel Curado\n\nManuel Curado (born 1967) is a Portuguese essayist and philosopher dedicated to Biomedical Ethics, Philosophy of Mind, and the History of Ideas. He has worked the following issues: the intellectual history of the idea of a universal language and the idea of machine translation, or automatic translation, the problem of human consciousness and its relationship with the brain, the relationship between science and religion, studies about the European and Portuguese intellectual history, academic editions of works by ancient authors (namely the Eighteenth-century mathematician José Maria Dantas Pereira, the logician Edmundo Curvelo, and others), the history of Psychiatry and history of the Portuguese Jewish heritage in Medicine and Philosophy (namely, the work of medical doctors Isaac Samuda and Jacob de Castro Sarmento), and the history of literary representations of mental life.\n\nProfessor at the University of Minho (Braga, North of Portugal), Auditor of National Defence, Doctor cum laude from the University of Salamanca, MA from the New University of Lisbon. He graduated from the Catholic University of Portugal (Lisbon). Holder of the Senior Management Course for Public Administration (CADAP). He was a visiting professor in Moscow, Russia (MGIMO and MGLU) and in Padua, Italy (Università degli Studi di Padova).\n\nManuel Curado, in his PhD thesis (\"The Hard Problem of Consciousness\") and in his more popular book \"Mysterious Light: Consciousness in the Physical World\", solves and dissolves the philosophical problem known as the hard problem of consciousness. The author formulates the hard problem of human consciousness as follows: why there is consciousness in the physical world when one could think about a world without consciousness at all? The philosopher’s answer to this question contends a solution by dissolving the very problem. The argument is developed around the possibility of overcoming the natural consciousness through scientific knowledge in order to produce artificial consciousness. According to the author, the problem is not going to be completely and preternaturally resolved because one has clear answers about what consciousness really is, or about what is the role of consciousness in the physical world, or about what is the causal power of consciousness, or about what is the relationship of consciousness to the brain, but because there is a growing scientific capacity to produce consciousness artificially. The philosopher envisions a future time when it will be impossible to distinguish between natural consciousness and artificially produced consciousness. This very impossibility to distinguish is interpreted as a normal epistemic condition that occurs in many other situations.\n\nThe most original philosophical thought of this philosopher is concerned with the relations between believers and the object of their faith or religious belief. The argument is developed in two ways. The relationship between the believer and God must be based on the assumption that God exists. However, this assumption does not imply necessarily the love of God or the respect of God. The relationship between God and humans is conceived in unique ways. Manuel Curado sees God as an object in the world, alongside predators against whom humans fought in their evolutionary past, along with the physical objects of nature, alongside the preternatural objects (inexplicable situations that occur rarely in history, like anomalies or lights in the sky) and alongside supernatural beings or objects (represented in many literary, religious, philosophical and testimonial ways from the very beginning of civilization). The philosopher's thesis is that humans are rivals or enemies of God and of all other beings that exist in the physical, preternatural and supernatural worlds. The most important point of his argument is the notion of interest. His essays often formulate this question: what is the true interest of human beings? Is it only the understanding of the world? It is being loved by a celestial father? Is it the search for meaning? Is it to survive in a hostile world? Or is it to invent themselves, dominating all other beings, including, of course, hypothetic supernatural beings?\n\nAnother way of thinking about the relationship between human beings and the objects that exist in the world is modern science. Manuel Curado argues that the interpretation that is usually offered about the scope and meaning of modern scientific activity is very poor. From his point of view, to try to understand the world is a very poor description of this scientific activity. The scientists describe the world, of course, but also invent and create new objects. Curado proposes a philosophical calculus of the ratio there is between the natural world and the artificial world. From his point of view, the natural world is getting smaller every day. He concludes from this situation that the radical interest of modern science is the creation of artificial worlds. As this trend grows in scope, the future will see the completion of this project. The conclusion he draws is that the ultimate concern of human beings is competing with God, not only in the neutral way of understanding the work of God. These very interesting ideas were presented in the essay \"The Future of God\", part of the edited book \"Why God If We Do Have Science?\"\n\nAuthor of many books, namely \"The Myth of the Automatic Translation\" (Braga, Universidade do Minho / CEHUM, 2000), \"Mysterious Light: Consciousness in the Physical World\" (Famalicão, Quasi, 2007), \"Biomedical Law: The Portuguese Legislation\" (Lisbon, Quid Juris, 2008), \"Why God If We Do Have Science?\" (Porto, Fronteira do Caos, 2009). \nEditor of the following books: \"Consciousness and Cognition\" (Braga, Faculty of Philosophy / UCP, 2004), \"Mind, Self and Consciousness\" (Braga, Faculty of Philosophy / UCP, 2007), \"Italian Letters of Luis Antonio Verney\" (Lisbon, Sílabo, 2008), \"Transparent Persons: Current issues in Bioethics\" (Coimbra, Almedina, 2008) and the \"God in the University: What Portuguese Academics Do Think About God?\" (Porto, Fronteira do Caos, 2011), \"Collected Works of Edmundo Curvelo\" (Lisboa, Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian, 2013).\n\nManuel Curado is also the author of a vast number of articles and book chapters. Many of them were written from the intense and enthusiastic lecturer activity that he has developed and is developing in Portugal and abroad.\n"}
{"id": "46265369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46265369", "title": "Marthinus Versfeld", "text": "Marthinus Versfeld\n\nMarthinus Versfeld (or Martin Versfeld) (11 August 1909 – 18 April 1995) was a South African philosopher. From 1937 to 1972 he taught at the University of Cape Town. He was celebrated as researcher, enjoyed the recognition of the South African literary community and was known as an opponent of the Apartheid system. His work ranged from scholarly books to playful essays on issues like ethics, anthropology, the meaning of life.\n\nVersfeld came from an Afrikaans family with a long history in the Western Cape region of South Africa. He attended the South African College Schools and did his undergraduate and Master's studies at the University of Cape Town. He moved on to Glasgow where he completed his doctoral dissertation on Descartes' metaphysics under the supervision of Archibald Bowman. In 1937 he was appointed as lecturer at UCT where he was to spend his entire career.\n\nDuring his student years he became disaffected from the Protestant faith in which he was raised. However in the late 1930s he went through a time of serious religious uncertainty. Eventually, he converted to Catholicism in the early 1940s.\n\nAfter the publication of his thesis as \"An essay on the metaphysics of Descartes\" (1940), Versfeld's first book was the polemical \"Oor gode en afgode [On gods and idols]\" (1948). This book contains a damning critique of war, exploitation and racism. He argued that \"Christian nationalism\" – a key concept from the Apartheid ideology – was a contradiction in terms.\n\nArguably Versfeld's most systematic books are \"The perennial order\" (1954) and \"The mirror of philosophers\" (1962). One finds in these books his engagement with Medieval philosophy – particularly Augustine and Aquinas – as well as with modern and contemporary philosophers. His work is characterised by the quest for an ethic of humaneness and care for the environment. This ethic is developed from intensive studies in philosophical anthropology. In the horizon of his work remains his opposition to the injust political dispensation in South Africa.\n\nThe bulk of his philosophy was published in collections of scholarly essays. He did, however, also publish translations, commentaries and essays for the broader public.\n\nThe nexus of anthropology and ethics is arguably the most important theme running through his work of the 1960s and 1970s. The playfulness and humour, as well as his ethic of simplicity – themes for which he became best known – appear in these works, as they did since \"Klip en klei\" (1968). One also notices the gradual increase in his attention to classical Eastern wisdom: he offered a translation of Lao-Tzu's \"Tao te ching\" (\"Die lewensweg van Lao-Tse\", 1988) and a series of essays, especially in \"Our selves\" and in \"Pots and poetry\" (1985). Eating became a central motive in his ethics, as is witnessed by \"Food for thought\" (1983)\n\nAll Versfeld's work bear the trace of his religious convictions. However, it is not possible to give a single characterisation of the way this conviction affected his work. In the 1948 book, \"Oor gode en afgode\" one finds him lauding the early Christian Church's anti-imperialism (the Second World War serves as background for this) or, again, advocating a version of \"Christian science\". At the same time, this fervour is strongly opposed to the petit-bourgeous morality of South African cultural conservatism and it is explicitly against the ideological combination of \"Christian Nationalism\".\n\nIn his later work, Versfeld expresses his critique of religious apologetics – against \"some superficial fools who write books on apologetics\". At the end of his life, he reiterated this view: “there are works of Catholic apologetics of the very recent past which claim to provide all the answers, falling very far short of the wisdom of the sage in Chuang-zu (22.1) who said: ‘We come nowhere being near right, since we have the answers.” Furthermore, he acknowledged the ambiguity of his own faith: \"To be a Christian cannot possibly mean to conform to a type or to coincide with the paradigm case. And if you are asked by anybody with such an idea in the back of his mind, whether you are a Christian, it is intensely embarrassing. You may say no, not because you are Judas, but because you are trying not to be.\" Still later, he would conclude: \"True religion finds itself comic.\". This almost negative-theological trait of his later religious thought is accompanied by a secularising turn – his later philosophy is shot through with the conviction that \"The secular is the miraculous.\"\n\nMuch earlier this not-knowing was already at the centre of his philosophical anthropology. In the autobiographical essay, \"Descartes and me\" (1960), Versfeld described his intellectual development as the move away from the certainty of the Cartesian \"cogito\" to the Augustine’s \"\"factus eram ipse mihi magna questio\", I became a great puzzle to myself.\"\n\nOn the one hand, this affected Versfeld’s self-understanding as a philosopher. In 1960 he could describe his work as \"post-modern\". The playfulness that increasingly characterise his work in the later decades, could be construed as the appropriation of the fundamental uncertainty at the centre of his thought. Hence he could open his 1971 inaugural lecture as follows: “I must confess at once that I do not know what philosophy is. This sometimes embarrasses me before the innocence of students, but not before those who have come to realise that the things by which we live are the things about which we know least. We do not know what life is, or what knowing is, or what truth and goodness are.” In later years he would drive this irony to its utmost: “I have fought a long duel with seriousness. That is why there is no need to take me seriously.”\n\nOn the other hand, Versfeld took over from both Descartes and Augustine the central significance of understanding the human being for his philosophy. This is reflected in the titles of books such as \"Our selves\" or \"Persons\". In fact, he claimed that \"Philosophy ought to start with anthropology in the Continental use of the term. What comes first is not theory of knowledge, but the problem of the being of man [sic].\"\n\nEssentially, this problem of being human has to do with the conflict between two selves: the real, historically situated, but nevertheless abysmally mysterious self and the pathological masquerades thereof, the grasping, dominating, manipulating self. Never is there question of a moralising choice for the first at the expense of the second. Rather, Versfeld is attentive to the inevitable cohabitation of the two.\n\nNevertheless, this does not take away from the importance he attaches to the first. And the distortions of the self – distortions to which Descartes and other modern philosophers gave philosophical expression – are reflected in the socio-political pathologies of modernity: its \"dominative epistemology\", its destruction of nature, its wars and exploitation of people.\n\nThis socio-political critique remains far from abstract. Although there is no sustained examination of the apartheid state in Versfeld’s work, his judgement on the injustice and harm of this system is clearly expressed: “The whites accelerated their self-exploitation by means of the exploitation of other races. Through their ingenuity in the sphere of transport and explosives they were in the position to utilise the non-whites as means for their own ends.” and in the religious parlance that was his in the 1948 book, he categorically rejects “racial discrimination, one-sided patriotism, participation in unjust war, exploitation, etc.” In South Africa, he writes in 1971 “we are bedevilled by a racialist capitalism exacerbated by our industrial and technological revolution, which justifies itself by a scriptural literalism.” His dissatisfaction with the contemporary solutions to the country’s political situation is captured succinctly as follows: “On the one hand we have the inadequate response of a nominalism of race, and on the other the conceptualism of abstract liberalism. One produces a variety without love, and the other a unity without significant differences. The creation of a nation requires the analogical mind which will accept the situation as matter seeking form, respect the variety, and seek the solution of charity.” But he could also argue his case in terms of human rights, by concluding in 1960 that: “If these rights belong to every man whatever his race and colour and by virtue solely of his being made for the truth, their preservation is the due of every man to every man. This prescribes that the means employed may not include trickery, outrage, lies or robbery. Justice is colour-blind, and requires for its realisation that we should see, beyond the contingencies of biology and history the image of truth in every man, which often in spite of himself is striving for expression in a common world. These contingencies are relevant as the material in which justice must be realised. But one could make no greater mistake than to mistake the matter for the form, that is, to give justice a racial expression instead of giving race a just expression. This applies impartially to black, white, and yellow since as justice is man's universal due, the doom of injustice done also works impartially upon all. What we have to do with is a law of human nature which extends to its metaphysical roots. It is a prescription to human wills before it is a prescription by them, and as such is as unalterable as the law of gravity.\"\n\nVersfeld exerted a broad influence on students, philosophers, activists and authors of literature. Among his students count Athol Fugard, Adam Small, Jeremy Cronin, Breyten Breytenbach, Richard Turner, Augustine Shutte and Jane Carruthers.\n\nIn 1977 Versfeld received the Stals Prize of the Suid-Afrikaanse Akademie vir Wetenskap en Kuns. He also received honorary doctorates from the University of Cape Town and the University of Johannesburg.\n\nHe was invited by the University of Notre Dame to participate in the 1966–67 \"Perspectives in Philosophy\" lecture series (with Stephan Körner, A. J. Ayer, Stephen Pepper and O. K. Bouwsma).\n\nKatinka Heyns, with Chris Barnard and colleagues, produced a documentary on Versfeld for the SABC, entitled \"Marthinus Versfeld : man van klip en klei\" (1989).\n\nThe academic material of Versfeld's archive is kept by the Library of the University of Cape Town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16529043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16529043", "title": "Mulasarvastivada", "text": "Mulasarvastivada\n\nThe Mūlasarvāstivāda (Sanskrit: मूलसर्वास्तिवाद; ) was one of the early Buddhist schools of India. The origins of the Mūlasarvāstivāda and their relationship to the Sarvāstivāda sect still remain largely unknown, although various theories exist.\n\nThe continuity of the Mūlasarvāstivāda monastic order remains in Tibetan Buddhism, although until recently, only Mūlasarvāstivādin bhikṣus (monks) existed: the bhikṣuṇī order had never been introduced.\n\nThe relationship of the Mūlasarvāstivāda to the Sarvāstivāda school is a matter of dispute; modern scholars lean towards classifying them as independent. Yijing claimed that they derived their name from being an offshoot of Sarvāstivāda, but Buton Rinchen Drub stated that the name was a homage to Sarvāstivāda as the \"root\" (\"mūla\") of all Buddhist schools. A number of theories have been posited by academics as to how the two are related, which Bhikkhu Sujato summaries as follows:\n\nAccording to Gregory Schopen, the Mūlasarvāstivāda developed during the 2nd century CE and went into decline in India by the 7th century.\n\nThe Mūlasarvāstivāda were prevalent at times throughout Central Asia due to missionary activities performed in the region. A number of scholars identify three distinct major phases of missionary activities seen in the history of Buddhism in Central Asia, which are associated with the following sects chronologically:\n\n\nIn the 7th century, Yijing writes that the Mūlasarvāstivāda were prominent throughout the kingdom of Śrīvijaya (modern day Indonesia). Yijing stayed in Śrīvijaya for six to seven years, during which time he studied Sanskrit and translated Sanskrit texts into Chinese. Yijing states that the Mūlasarvāstivāda vinaya was almost universally adopted in this area. He writes that the subjects studied, as well as the rules and ceremonies, were essentially the same in this region as they were in India. Yijing described these islands as generally \"Hīnayāna\" in orientation, but writes that the Melayu Kingdom included Mahāyāna teachings such as Asaṅga's \"Yogācārabhūmi Śāstra\".\n\nThe Mūlasarvāstivāda vinaya is one of three surviving vinaya lineages, along with the Dharmaguptaka and Theravāda. The Tibetan Emperor Ralpacan restricted Buddhist ordination to the Mūlasarvāstivādin vinaya. As Mongolian Buddhism was introduced from Tibet, Mongolian ordination follows this rule as well.\n\nThe Mūlasarvāstivāda Vinaya is extant in Tibetan (9th century translation) and Chinese (8th century translation), and to some extent in the original Sanskrit.\n\n"}
{"id": "5941699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5941699", "title": "Pan-African Socialist Party", "text": "Pan-African Socialist Party\n\nPan-African Socialist Party (, PSP) was a Togolese political party advocating socialism and pan-Africanism. It was founded in the early 1990s in response to Togo's legalization of opposition parties. After the assassination of its first and brightest leader, Tavio Amorin, in July 1992, the party fell into obscurity. The Togolese police were responsible for the killing.\n"}
{"id": "33901455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33901455", "title": "Professional-managerial class", "text": "Professional-managerial class\n\nThe Professional-Managerial class was an influential New Class hypothesis in social science in the United States in the 1970s by John and Barbara Ehrenreich. The Ehrenreichs hypothesized a social class within capitalism that, by controlling production processes through superior management skills, was neither proletarian nor bourgeois. This hypothesis contributed to the Marxist debates on class in Fordism and was used as an analytical category in the examination of non-proletarian employees.\n\nThis group of middle class professionals is distinguished from other social classes by their training and education, typically business qualifications and university degrees, with occupations including academics, teachers, social workers, engineers, managers, nurses, and middle-level administrators. The professional-managerial class tends to have incomes above the average for their country.\n\nIt is estimated that in the United States during 1930, people in professional-managerial class occupations made up less than 1 percent of total employment. In 1972, about 24 percent of American jobs were in professional-managerial class occupations. By 1983 the number had risen to 28 percent and in 2006, 35 percent.\n"}
{"id": "13644060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13644060", "title": "Ravidas", "text": "Ravidas\n\nRavidas was a North Indian mystic poet-sant of the bhakti movement during the 15th to 16th century CE. Venerated as a \"guru\" (teacher) in the region of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh the devotional songs of Ravidas made a lasting impact upon the bhakti movement. He was a poet-saint, social reformer and a spiritual figure. He is considered as the founder of 21st-century Ravidassia religion, by a group who previously were associated with Sikhism.\n\nThe life details of Ravidas are uncertain and contested. Most scholars believe he was born about 1450 CE, in a family that worked with dead animals skin to produce leather products and very much known in India as untouchables. Tradition and medieval era texts state Ravidas was one of the disciples of the brahmin bhakti saint-poet Ramananda.\n\nRavidas' devotional songs were included in the Sikh Scriptures, Guru Granth Sahib. The \"Panch Vani\" text of the Dadupanthi tradition within Hinduism also includes numerous poems of Ravidas. Ravidas taught removal of social divisions of caste and gender, and promoted unity in the pursuit of personal spiritual freedoms.\n\nThe details of Ravidas' life are not well known because he was from a lower caste family and that time this caste was not recorded by upper caste writters. Most scholars state he was born about 1450, and died about 1520.\n\nRavidas was born in the village of Seer Goverdhanpur, near Varanasi in what is now Uttar Pradesh, India. His birthplace is now known as Shri Guru Ravidas Janam Asthan. Mata Ghurbinia was his mother, and his father was Raghuram. His parents belonged to a leather-working Chamar community making them an untouchable caste . While his original occupation was leather work, he began to spend most of his time in spiritual pursuits at bank of river Ganga . Thereafter he spent most of his life in the company of sufi saints, sadhus and ascetics.\n\nThe text \"Anantadas Parcai\", one of the earliest surviving biographies of various Bhakti movement poets, introduces the birth of Ravidas as follows,\n\nMedieval era texts, such as the \"Bhaktamal\" suggest that Ravidas was not the disciples of the Brahmin \"bhakti\" -poet Ramananda. He is traditionally considered as Kabir's younger contemporary.\n\nHis ideas and fame grew over his lifetime, and texts suggest Brahmins (members of priestly upper caste) used to bow before him. He travelled extensively, visiting Hindu pilgrimage sites in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and those in the Himalayas. He abandoned saguna (with attributes, image) forms of supreme beings, and focussed on the nirguna (without attributes, abstract) form of supreme beings. As his poetic hymns in regional languages inspired others, people from various background sought his teachings and guidance.\n\nMost scholars believe that Ravidas met Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the founder of Sikhism. He is revered in the Sikh scripture, and 41 of Ravidas' poems are included in the Adi Granth. These poems are one of the oldest attested source of his ideas and literary works. Another substantial source of legends and stories about the life of Ravidas is the hagiography in the Sikh tradition, named \"Premambodha\". This text, composed over 150 years after Ravidas' death, in 1693, includes him as one of the seventeen saints of Indian religious tradition. The 17th-century Nabhadas's Bhaktamal, and the \"Parcais\" of Anantadas, both contain chapters on Ravidas. Other than these, the scriptures and texts of Sikh tradition and the Hindu Dadupanthi traditions, most other written sources about the life of Ravidas, including by the Ravidasi (followers of Ravidas), were composed in the early 20th century, or about 400 years after his death.\n\nCallewaert considers the 1676 version as the standard version, his critical edition of Ravidas's hagiography excludes all these insertions, and he remarks that the cleaner critical version of Anantadas's \"parcais\" suggests that there is more in common in the ideas of bhakti movement's Ravidas, Kabir and Sen than previously thought.\n\nKhare similarly has questioned the textual sources on Ravidas, and mentions there are few \"readily available and reliable textual sources on the Hindu and Untouchable treatment of Ravidas.\"\n\nThe \"Adi Granth\" of Sikhs, and \"Panchvani\" of the Hindu warrior-ascetic group \"Dadupanthis\" are the two oldest attested sources of the literary works of Ravidas. In the \"Adi Granth\", forty of Ravidas's poems are included, and he is one of thirty six contributors to this foremost canonical scripture of Sikhism. This compilation of poetry in Adi Granth responds to, among other things, issues of dealing with conflict and tyranny, war and resolution, and willingness to dedicate one's life to the right cause. Ravidas's poetry covers topics such as the definition of a just state where there are no second or third class unequal citizens, the need for dispassion, and who is a real Yogi.\n\nJeffrey Ebbesen notes that, just like other bhakti sant-poets of India and some cases of Western literature authorship, many poems composed by later era Indian poets have been attributed to Ravidas, as an act of reverence, even though Ravidas has had nothing to do with these poems or ideas expressed therein.\n\nPeter Friedlander states that Ravidas' hagiographies, though authored long after he died, depict a struggle within the Indian society, where Ravidas' life gives a means to express a variety of social and spiritual themes. At one level, it depicts a struggle between the then prevalent heterodox communities and the orthodox Brahminical tradition. At another level, the legends are an inter-communal, inter-religious struggle with an underlying search and desire for social unity. At yet another level, states Friedlander, the stories describe the spiritual struggle of an individual unto self.\n\nThere is no historical evidence to verify the historicity in these hagiographies, which range from Ravidas's struggle with Hindu Brahmins, to his struggle with Muslim Sultan Sikander Lodi. Friedlander states that the stories reflect the social dynamics that influenced the composers of the hagiographies during the 17th- to 20th-century. These are legends where Ravidas is victorious because God intervened with miracles such as making a stone float in water, or making river Ganges to reverse course and flow upstream.\n\nDavid Lorenzen similarly states that poetry attributed to Ravidas, and championed by \"Ravidasi\" (his followers) from the 17th- through the 20th-century, have a strong anti-Brahminical and anti-communal theme. The legends, suggests Lorenzen, cannot be separated from the power and political situation of this era, and they reflect a strong element of social and religious dissent by groups marginalized during a period when Indian society was under the Islamic rule and later the colonial rule.\n\nThe songs of Ravidas discuss \"\" themes, as well as ideas that are at the foundation of Nath Yoga philosophy of Hinduism. He frequently mentions the term \"Sahaj\", a mystical state where there is a union of the truths of the many and the one.\n\nDavid Lorenzen states Ravidas's poetry is imbued with themes of boundless loving devotion to God, wherein this divine is envisioned as \"Nirguna\". In the Sikh tradition, the themes of Nanak's poetry are very broadly similar to the \"Nirgun bhakti\" ideas of Ravidas and other leading north Indian sant-poets. Most postmodern scholars, states Karen Pechilis, consider Ravidas's ideas to belong to the \"Nirguna\" philosophy within the bhakti movement.\n\nMultiple manuscripts found in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, dated to be from the 18th and 19th centuries, contain a theosophical debate between Kabir and Ravidas on the nature of the Absolute, more specifically whether the Brahman (Ultimate Reality, Eternal Truth) is monistic Oneness or a separate anthropomorphic incarnate. Kabir argues for the former. Ravidas, in contrast, argues from the latter premise to the effect that both are one. In these manuscripts, Kabir initially prevails, Ravidas accepts that Brahman is monistic, but till the end Kabir didn't accepts worshipping a divine avatar (\"sagun\" conception) but he was strongly accepted that realizing the Oneness and the presence of the divine in everyone, everything.\n\nRavindra Khare states that there are two divergent versions that emerge from the study of texts relating to Ravidas's philosophy. The 17th century Bhaktamal text by Nabhadas provides one version, while the 20th century texts by Dalits provide another.\n\nAccording to \"Bhaktamal\" text, Ravidas was of pure speech, capable of resolving spiritual doubts of those who held discussions with him, was unafraid to state his humble origins and real caste. Further, the \"Bhaktamal\" text states that Ravidas's teachings agreed with Vedic and ancient scriptures, he subscribed to nondualism, discussed spiritual ideas and philosophy with everyone including Brahmins without gender or caste discrimination, and his abilities reflected an individual who had reached the inner content state of the highest ascetic.\n\nThe 20th century version, prevalent in the texts of Dalit community, concurs with the parts about pure speech and resolving spiritual doubts. However, they differ in the rest. The texts and the prevalent beliefs of the Dalit community hold that Ravidas rejected the Hindu Vedas, he was opposed by the Brahmins and resisted by the caste Hindus as well as Hindu ascetics throughout his life, and that some members of the Dalit community have believed Ravidas was an idol worshipper (saguni bhakti saint) while other 20th century texts assert that Ravidas rejected idolatry.\n\nThe difference between the Ravidassia religion and Sikhism, as described by a post made by Shri Guru Ravidass Temple in Ontario is as follows:\nWe, as Ravidassias have different traditions. We are not Sikhs. Even though, we give utmost respect to 10 gurus and Guru Granth Sahib, Guru Ravidass Ji is our supreme. There is no command for us to follow the declaration that there is no Guru after Guru Granth Sahib. We respect Guru Granth Sahib because it has our guru Ji‟s teachings and teachings of other religious figures who have spoken against caste system, spread the message of NAAM and equality. As per our traditions, we give utmost respect to contemporary gurus also who are carrying forward the message of Guru Ravidass Ji.Ravidassia religion is a spin off religion from Sikhism, formed in the 21st century, by the followers of Ravidass's teachings. It was formed following the murder of their cleric Ramanand Dass in Vienna in 2009, where the movement declared itself to be a religion fully separated from Sikhism. The Ravidassia religion compiled a new holy book, Amritbani Guru Ravidass Ji. Based entirely on the writings and teaching of Ravidas, it contains 240 hymns.\n\nKathryn Lum summarizes the dynamics behind the separation of Ravidassia religion and Sikhism, and its focus on Ravidas, as follows:\n\nRavidas is revered as a saint and well respected by his believers. He is considered by his devotees as someone who was the living symbol of religious protest, and not as the spiritual symbol of any ultimate unifying cultural principle.\n\nA political party was founded in India in 2012 by the followers of Ravidass, with the word Begumpura (\"Be-gam-pura\", or \"land without sorrow\"), a term coined in a poem by Ravidas. The term means the city where there is no suffering or fear, and all are equal.\n\nThere is a small \"chhatri\" (umbrella) in front of Meera’s temple in Chittorgarh district of Rajasthan which bears Ravidas' engraved foot print. Legends link him as the \"guru\" of Meera, another major bhakti movement poet, but there is no historical evidence that they ever met.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32456737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32456737", "title": "Sananel", "text": "Sananel\n\nIn Gnosticism and Demonology Sananel was a former chief of the angelic host who later became the demiurge or creator of the material world, and known as Satan. In some accounts he was the elder brother of Jesuel (the heavenly Jesus).\n\n"}
{"id": "48433415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48433415", "title": "Scientific Knowledge and Its Social Problems", "text": "Scientific Knowledge and Its Social Problems\n\nScientific Knowledge and Its Social Problems is a 1971 book by Jerome Ravetz. It contains a reasoned illustration of science as a social process with all the failing and imperfections of human endeavors.\n\n'It is impossible to understand the social and ethical problems confronting\nscience without recognizing the falsity of the assumption, crucial to traditional\ntheories of science, that the results of scientific research must be\nessentially good and true. Dr Ravetz demonstrates the role of choice and\nvalue-judgement, and the inevitability of error, in scientific research'.\n\nSalient aspects of the book are the social construction of facts, science as a craft with essential tacit elements, the role of choice and value judgment, and the inevitability of error. The book argues that internal quality control system of industrialized science will suffer severe problems: \"The problem of quality control in science is thus at the centre of the social problems of the industrialized science of the present period.\" Moore (1973) summarizes the main claims of Ravetz's work are as follows: \"First, historically the social character of science has undergone tremendous changes. Secondly, the traditional philosophies of science which conceive of science as an activity in the pursuit of truth are obsolete. And thirdly, it is imperative to develop a new philosophy of science which accounts for the social nature of contemporary science.\" Ravetz analyzes the transition from basic science to 'industrialized science', with particular attention of issues of degeneration (shoddy science). He also focuses on entrepreneurial science, where a scientist becomes more concerned with research grants and power than\nwith the quality of his scientific research. The need for 'good morale', i.e. for an ethos of science upheld by a community of peers is mentioned in relation to the danger that such an ethos may not survive 'industrialized science'. For Gowing (1974) the main difficulty of this work are the confusion among the different kinds of science addressed by the inquiry: 'natural sciences, pure and applied', versus 'any sort of disciplined inquiry', up to include 'social sciences'.\n\nFor Higgins \"Ravetz best sections deal with science as a craft ... but a craft nonetheless. This science-as-craft cannot be taught independent of its ideology. One learns a craft at a master's knee, as one learns style. What this really means is that students must learn to make judgments about their actions; also about their behaviors, their science, their data.\" For Rothman (1974) Ravetz elucidates \"the processes by which genuine and meaningful scientific knowledge accumulates. These chapters – nine\nin all – form the most interesting and useful part of the book. His description of the emergence and refinement of scientific facts is articulated by the argument that science is craftman's work.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27006", "title": "Serendipity", "text": "Serendipity\n\nSerendipity means an unplanned, fortunate discovery.\n\nThe notion of serendipity is a common occurrence throughout the history of scientific innovation. Examples are Alexander Fleming's accidental discovery of penicillin in 1928, the invention of the microwave oven by Percy Spencer in 1945, and the invention of the Post-it note by Spencer Silver in 1968.\n\nIn June 2004, a British translation company voted the word to be one of the ten English words hardest to translate. However, due to its sociological use, the word has since been exported into many other languages.\n\nThe first noted use of \"serendipity\" in the English language was by Horace Walpole in 1754. In a letter he wrote to his friend Horace Mann, Walpole explained an unexpected discovery he had made about a (lost) painting of Bianca Cappello by Giorgio Vasari by reference to a Persian fairy tale, \"The Three Princes of Serendip\". The princes, he told his correspondent, were \"always making discoveries, by accidents and sagacity, of things which they were not in quest of\". The name comes from \"Serendip\", an old name for Sri Lanka (Ceylon), hence \"Sarandib\" by Arab traders. It is derived from the Sanskrit \"Siṃhaladvīpaḥ\" (Siṃhalaḥ, Sri Lanka + dvīpaḥ, island).\n\nM. E. Graebner describes serendipitous value in the context of the acquisition of a business as \"windfalls that were not anticipated by the buyer prior to the deal\": i.e., unexpected advantages or benefits incurred due to positive synergy effects of the merger.\n\nIkujiro Nonaka points out that the serendipitous quality of innovation is highly recognized by managers and links the success of Japanese enterprises to their ability to create knowledge not by processing information but rather by \"tapping the tacit and often highly subjective insights, intuitions, and hunches of individual employees and making those insights available for testing and use by the company as a whole\".\n\nSerendipity is postulated by Napier and Vuong (2013) as a 'strategic advantage' with which a firm can tap its potential creativity.\n\nSerendipity is a key concept in competitive intelligence because it is one of the tools for avoiding blind spots (see Blindspots analysis).\n\nSerendipity is used as a sociological method in Anselm L. Strauss' and Barney G. Glaser's \"grounded theory\", building on ideas by sociologist Robert K. Merton, who in \"Social Theory and Social Structure\" (1949) referred to the \"serendipity pattern\" as the fairly common experience of observing an unanticipated, anomalous and strategic datum which becomes the occasion for developing a new theory or for extending an existing theory. Merton also co-authored (with Elinor Barber) \"The Travels and Adventures of Serendipity\", which traces the origins and uses of the word \"serendipity\" since it was coined. The book is \"a study in sociological semantics and the sociology of science\", as the subtitle of the book declares. It further develops the idea of serendipity as scientific \"method\" (as juxtaposed with purposeful discovery by experiment or retrospective prophecy).\n\nWilliam Boyd coined the term zemblanity in the late twentieth century to mean somewhat the opposite of serendipity: \"making unhappy, unlucky and unexpected discoveries occurring by design\". A zemblanity is, effectively, an \"unpleasant unsurprise\". It derives from Novaya Zemlya (or Nova Zembla), a cold, barren land with many features opposite to the lush Sri Lanka (Serendip). On this island Willem Barents and his crew were stranded while searching for a new route to the east.\n\nBahramdipity is derived directly from Bahram Gur as characterized in \"The Three Princes of Serendip\". It describes the \"suppression\" of serendipitous discoveries or research results by powerful individuals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242601", "title": "Sesshin", "text": "Sesshin\n\nA sesshin (接心, or also 摂心/攝心 literally \"touching the heart-mind\") is a period of intensive meditation (zazen) in a Zen monastery.\n\nWhile the daily routine in the monastery requires the monks to meditate several hours a day, during a sesshin they devote themselves almost exclusively to zazen practice. The numerous 30- to 50-minute-long meditation periods are interleaved with short rest breaks, meals, and sometimes short periods of work (Japanese: 作務 \"samu\") all performed with the same mindfulness; nightly sleep is kept to a minimum, at six hours or fewer. During the sesshin period, the meditation practice is occasionally interrupted by the master giving public talks (teisho) and individual direction in private meetings (which may be called \"dokusan\", \"daisan\", or \"sanzen\") with a Zen Master.\n\nIn modern Buddhist practice in Japan and the West, sesshins are often attended by lay students, and are typically one, three, five, or seven days in length. Seven-day sesshins are held several times a year at many Zen centers, especially in commemoration of the Buddha's awakening to full enlightenment (\"anuttarā-samyak-saṃbodhi\"). At this Rohatsu sesshin, practitioners seek to relax and quiet the mind to the point of cessation of mental chatter and emotional impulse, samadhi, kensho, or satori.\n\nA sesshin schedule in the West will typically allow anywhere from nine to fifteen periods of zazen per day, 30–40 minutes each, with ten-minute periods of walking meditation (kinhin) between zazen periods. Traditional sesshin are more intensive, with meditations lasting 30–60 minutes each, with an absence of any rest or work breaks and sleep limited to less than five hours a day.\n\nMeals are taken in a formal meditation ritual of oryoki. Work periods in westernized sesshin are sometimes scheduled and may comprise one to two hours of the day, usually in gardening, cooking, or cleaning. The sesshin schedule typically allows for four to five hours of sleep per night, though practitioners occasionally will spend much of the next-to-last night of a five- or seven-day sesshin in zazen. This is called yaza and is much revered as a particularly effective time to meditate when the thinking mind and ego lack the energy to derail practice. \nIt has been reported that at least three days of sesshin are usually required for the practitioner to \"settle down\" into the sesshin routine to a point where the mind becomes quiet enough for the deeper types of meditation and samadhi to begin.\n\nSome people unfamiliar with the process have reported becoming disoriented and fearful of incurring psychological damage during sesshin. Some Zen centers do not allow novices to attend long sesshins without much prior experience and screening by the practice leaders. Sesshin can lead to deep experiences of awakening that may at times be somewhat traumatic, akin to a \"spiritual emergency\" or symptoms of Kundalini Syndrome.\n\nWhile this may seem daunting at first, people who practice regular zazen do not usually have problems with sesshin. Heightening of senses may arise during sesshin. Sometimes practitioners report that food has incredible flavor and colors become more vivid and pronounced.\n\nThere is no talking during sesshin. Silence is observed so that each student may both concentrate on their experience and not influence those of others.\n\nAt the end of the sesshin there is usually a meal when students are allowed to talk to others for the first time since arriving.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1493917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1493917", "title": "Shaktipat", "text": "Shaktipat\n\nShaktipat or Śaktipāta (Sanskrit, from \"shakti\" \"(psychic) energy\" and \"pāta\", \"to fall\") refers in Hinduism to the transmission (or conferring) of spiritual energy upon one person by another. \"Shaktipat\" can be transmitted with a sacred word or mantra, or by a look, thought or touch – the last usually to the ajna chakra or third eye of the recipient.\n\n\"Saktipat\" is considered an act of grace (\"anugraha\") on the part of the guru or the divine. It cannot be imposed by force, nor can a receiver make it happen. The very consciousness of the god or guru is held to enter into the Self of the disciple, constituting an initiation into the school or the spiritual family (kula) of the guru. It is held that \"Shaktipat\" can be transmitted in person or at a distance, through an object such as a flower or fruit.\n\nIn Kashmir Shaivism, depending on its intensity, \"Śaktipāt\" can be classified as:\n\n\nSwami Muktananda, in his book \"Play of Consciousness\", describes in great detail his experience of receiving shaktipat initiation from his guru Bhagavan Nityananda and his spiritual development that unfolded after this event.\n\nPaul Zweig has written of his experience of receiving \"shaktipat\" from Muktananda. In the same book Itzhak Bentov describes his laboratory measurements of kundalini-awakening through \"shaktipat\", a study held in high regard by the late Satyananda Saraswati, founder of the Bihar School of Yoga, and by Hiroshi Motoyama, author of \"Theories of the Chakras\".\n\nBarbara Brennan describes shaktipat as the projection of the guru's \"aura\" on the disciple who thereby acquires the same mental state, hence the importance of the high spiritual level of the guru. The physiological phenomena of rising kundalini then naturally manifest.\n\nIn his book, Building a Noble World, Shiv R. Jhawar describes his shaktipat experience at Muktananda’s public program at Lake Point Tower in Chicago on September 16, 1974 as follows:\n\n“Baba [Swami Muktananda] had just begun delivering his discourse with his opening statement: ‘Today’s subject is meditation. The crux of the question is: What do we meditate upon?’ Continuing his talk, Baba said: ‘Kundalini starts dancing when one repeats Om Namah Shivaya.’Hearing this, I mentally repeated the mantra, I noticed that my breathing was getting heavier. Suddenly, I felt a great impact of a rising force within me. The intensity of this rising kundalini force was so tremendous that my body lifted up a little and fell flat into the aisle; my eyeglasses flew off. As I lay there with my eyes closed, I could see a continuous fountain of dazzling white lights erupting within me. In brilliance, these lights were brighter than the sun but possessed no heat at all. I was experiencing the thought-free state of \"I am,\" realizing that \"I\" have always been, and will continue to be, eternal. I was fully conscious and completely aware while I was experiencing the pure \"I am,\" a state of supreme bliss. Outwardly, at that precise moment, Baba delightfully shouted from his platform…’mene kuch nahi kiya; kisiko shakti ne pakda (I didn’t do anything. The Energy has caught someone.)’ Baba noticed that the dramatic awakening of kundalini in me frightened some people in the audience. Therefore, he said, ‘Do not be frightened. Sometimes kundalini gets awakened in this way, depending upon a person’s type.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986129", "title": "Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola", "text": "Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola\n\nThe Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola (Latin original: \"Exercitia spiritualia\"), composed 1522–1524, are a set of Christian meditations, contemplations, and prayers written by Saint Ignatius of Loyola, a 16th-century Spanish priest, theologian, and founder of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits). Divided into four thematic \"weeks\" of variable length, they are designed to be carried out over a period of 28 to 30 days. They were composed with the intention of helping participants in religious retreats to discern the will of God in their lives, leading to a personal commitment to follow Jesus whatever the cost. Their underlying theology has been found agreeable to other Christian denominations who make use of them and also for addressing problems facing society in the 21st century.\n\nA review of the publication history of the \"Spiritual Exercises\" may be found on the website of Loyola Press. The first printed edition of the \"Spiritual Exercises\" was published in Latin in 1548, after being given papal approval by Pope Paul III. However, Ignatius's manuscripts were in Spanish, so this first edition was in fact a translation, although it was made during Ignatius's lifetime and with his approval. Many subsequent editions in Latin and in various other languages were printed early on with widely differing texts. \n\nArchival work on the authentic text of the \"Spiritual Exercises\" was undertaken at the initiative of the 19th century Jesuit Superior General Jan Roothaan, who himself published a translation and notes from the original manuscripts of St. Ignatius. The culmination of this work was a \"critical edition\" of the \"Exercises\" published by the Jesuit order in 1919, in the \"Monumenta Historica Societatis Jesu\" series. A critical edition from 1847 that incorporates Roothaan's studies can be found online. An authoritative Spanish-Latin text, based on the critical edition, was published in Turin by Marietti, in 1928. This was edited by the editor of the critical edition, and included convenient marginal numbers for every section, which can be found in all contemporary editions (and inline in this article).\n\nAn English translation by Louis J. Puhl, S.J., published in 1951, has been widely used by Jesuits, spiritual directors, retreat leaders, and others in the English-speaking world. Puhl translated directly from studies based on the original manuscripts.\n\nAfter recovering from a leg wound incurred during the Siege of Pamplona in 1521, Ignatius made a retreat with the Benedictine monks at their abbey high on Montserrat in Catalonia, northern Spain, where he hung up his sword before the statue of the Virgin of Montserrat. The monks introduced him to the spiritual exercises of Garcia de Cisneros, which were based in large part on the teachings of the Brothers of the Common Life, the promoters of the \"devotio moderna\". From Montserrat, he left for Barcelona but took a detour through the town of Manresa, where he eventually remained for several months, continuing his convalescence at a local hospital. During this time he discovered \"The Imitation of Christ\" of Thomas à Kempis, the crown jewel of the \"devotio moderna\", which, unlike the focus on labor in the Lord's vineyard which Ignatius will give to his \"Constitutions\", gave little grounding for an apostolic spirituality. He also spent much of his time praying in a cave nearby, where he practiced rigorous asceticism. During this time Ignatius experienced a series of visions, and formulated the fundamentals of his \"Spiritual Exercises\". He would later refine and complete the \"Exercises\" when he was a student in Paris. \nThe \"Spiritual Exercises\" of Saint Ignatius form the cornerstone of Ignatian Spirituality: a way of understanding and living one's relationship with God in the world as practiced by members of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits). Although he originally designed them to take place in the setting of a secluded retreat, during which those undergoing the exercises would be focused on nothing other than the \"Exercises\", Ignatius also provided a model in his introductory notes for completing the \"Exercises\" over a longer period without the need of seclusion. The \"Exercises\" were designed to be carried out while under the guidance of a spiritual director, but they were never meant only for monks or priests: Ignatius gave the \"Exercises\" for 15 years before he was ordained, and years before the Society of Jesus was founded. He saw them as an instrument for bringing about a conversion or change of heart, in the Reformation times in which he lived. After the Society of Jesus was formed, the \"Exercises\" became the central component of its training program. They usually take place during the first year of a two-year novitiate and during a final year of spiritual studies after ordination to the priesthood. The \"Exercises\" have also impacted the founders of other religious orders, even becoming central to their work.\n\nIgnatius considered the examen, or spiritual self-review, to be the most important way to continue to live out the experience of the \"Exercises\" after their completion.\n\nIgnatius identified the various motives that lead a person to choose one course of action over another as \"spirits\". A major aim of the \"Exercises\" is the development of discernment (\"discretio\"), the ability to discern between good and evil spirits. A good \"spirit\" can bring love, joy, peace, but also desolation, to bring one to re-examine one's life. An evil spirit usually brings confusion and doubt, but may also prompt contentment to discourage change. The human soul is continually drawn in two directions: towards goodness but at the same time towards sinfulness.\n\nAccording to the theologian Hans Urs von Balthasar, \"choice\" is the center of the \"Exercises\", and they are directed to choosing God's choice, i.e., ultimately to a self-abandonment to God. The \"Exercises\" \"have as their purpose the conquest of self and the regulation of one’s life in such a way that no decision is made under the influence of any inordinate attachment.\"\n\n\"Discernment\" is very important to Ignatian thought. Through the process of discernment, the believer is led toward a direct connection between one's thought and action and the grace of God. As such, discernment can be considered a movement toward mystical union with God, and it emphasizes the mystical experience of the believer. This aspect of the \"Spiritual Exercises\" reflects the trend toward mysticism in Catholic thought which flourished during the time of the counter-reformation (e.g., with Teresa of Ávila, Francis de Sales, and Pierre de Bérulle). However, while discernment can be understood as a mystical path, it can also more prosaically be understood as a method of subjective ethical thought. The \"Exercises\" emphasize the role of one's own mental faculties in deciding what is right and wrong.\n\nThe original, complete form of the \"Exercises\" is a retreat of about 30 days in silence and solitude. The \"Exercises\" are divided into four \"weeks\" of varying length with four major themes: sin and God's mercy, episodes in the life of Jesus, the passion of Jesus, and the resurrection of Jesus together with a contemplation on God's love. This last is often seen as the goal of Ignatian spirituality, to find God in all things. The \"weeks\" represent stages in a process of wholehearted commitment to the service of God. \n\nIgnatius' book is not meant to be used by the retreatant but by a director or spiritual guide. Each day the exercitant uses the material proposed by the director for four or five hour-long periods, each followed by a review of how the period went. The exercitant reports back to the spiritual director who helps interpret the exercitant's experiences and proposes material for the next day. Ignatius observes that God \"deals directly\" with the well-disposed person and the director should not give advice to the retreatant that might interfere with God's workings. \n\nAfter the first week Ignatius recommends a form of contemplation which he calls \"application of the senses.\" For this you “place yourself in a scene from the Gospels. Ask yourself, \"What do I see? What do I hear? What do I feel, taste and smell?” The purpose of these \"Exercises\" is that we might gain the empathy to \"follow and imitate more closely our Lord.\" From this comes the widespread use of the \"Magis\" concept in Ignatian circles.\n\nThe \"Spiritual Exercises\" of Ignatius of Loyola are considered a classic work of spiritual literature. Many Jesuits are ready to direct the general public in retreats based on the \"Exercises\".\n\nSince the 1980s there has been a growing interest in the \"Spiritual Exercises\" among people from other Christian traditions. The \"Exercises\" are also popular among lay people both in the Catholic Church and in other denominations, and lay organizations like the Christian life community place the \"Exercises\" at the center of their spirituality. The \"Exercises\" are seen variously as an occasion for a change of life and as a school of contemplative prayer.\n\nThe most common way for laypersons to go through the \"Exercises\" now is a \"retreat in daily life\", which involves a 5-7 month program of daily prayer and meetings with a spiritual director. Also called the \"19th annotation exercises\" based on a remark of St. Ignatius in the 19th \"introductory observation\" in his book, the retreat in daily life does not require an extended stay in a retreat house and the learned methods of discernment can be tried out on day-to-day experiences over time.\n\nAlso, some break the 30 days into two or three sections over a two-year period. And most retreat centers offer shorter retreats with some of the elements of the \"Spiritual Exercises\". Retreats have been developed for specific groups of people, such as those who are married or engaged. Self-guided forms of the \"Exercises\" are also available, including online programs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1722388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1722388", "title": "Technocriticism", "text": "Technocriticism\n\nTechnocriticism is a branch of critical theory devoted to the study of technological change.\n\nTechnocriticism treats technological transformation as historically specific changes in personal and social practices of research, invention, regulation, distribution, promotion, appropriation, use, and discourse, rather than as an autonomous or socially indifferent accumulation of useful inventions, or as an uncritical narrative of linear \"progress\", \"development\" or \"innovation\".\n\nTechnocriticism studies these personal and social practices in their changing practical and cultural significance. It documents and analyzes both their private and public uses, and often devotes special attention to the relations among these different uses and dimensions. Recurring themes in technocritical discourse include the deconstruction of essentialist concepts such as \"health\", \"human\", \"nature\" or \"norm\".\n\nTechnocritical theory can be either \"descriptive\" or \"prescriptive\" in tone. Descriptive forms of technocriticism include some scholarship in the history of technology, science and technology studies, cyberculture studies and philosophy of technology. More prescriptive forms of technocriticism can be found in the various branches of technoethics, for example, media criticism, infoethics, bioethics, neuroethics, roboethics, nanoethics, existential risk assessment and some versions of environmental ethics and environmental design theory.\n\nFigures engaged in technocritical scholarship and theory include Donna Haraway and Bruno Latour (who work in the closely related field of science studies), N. Katherine Hayles (who works in the field of Literature and Science), Phil Agree and Mark Poster (who works in intellectual history), Marshall McLuhan and Friedrich Kittler (who work in the closely related field of media studies), Susan Squier and Richard Doyle (who work in the closely related field of medical sociology), and Hannah Arendt, Walter Benjamin, Martin Heidegger, and Michel Foucault (who sometimes wrote about the philosophy of technology). Technocriticism can be juxtaposed with a number of other innovative interdisciplinary areas of scholarship which have surfaced in recent years such as technoscience and technoethics.\n\n"}
{"id": "53333341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53333341", "title": "Yoga: From the Ganges to Wall Street", "text": "Yoga: From the Ganges to Wall Street\n\nYoga: From The Ganges to Wall Street is a book by Radhika Khanna, an Indian American author and fashion designer. Published in 2015 in India and in 2016 in the United States of America by Bloomsbury Publishing, it was the author's second book.\n\nThe idea behind the book is yoga and healthy living.From the history of Yoga to the modern day yoga practice in the East and the West of the world.\nThe proceeds of the book were donated to The National Mission for Clean Ganga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35487634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35487634", "title": "Zhenxie Qingliao", "text": "Zhenxie Qingliao\n\nZhenxie Qingliao (; ), also known as Changlu Qingliao (; ), was a Chinese Zen Buddhist monk during the Song Dynasty. He was born in Anchang, an ancient city in what is now Sichuan Province. According to traditional biographies, he became a monk at the age of eleven. The scholar Morten Schlütter calls Qingliao, along with his fellow student Hongzhi Zhengjue, \"the most illustrious representative of the Caodong tradition in the Song [Dynasty].\" Multiple sources contain a story about Qingliao regarding an event that took place after he received dharma transmission from his teacher Danxia Zichun. After leaving his teacher, he became the head monk at a monastery on Mt. Changlu, whose abbot was Zuzhao Daohe of the Yunmen school. Daohe offered to allow Qingliao to become the abbot of the monastery, inherit his robe, and serve as his heir. Qingliao said he would become abbot, but could not be Daohe's heir since Zichun had already given him dharma transmission. Daohe later left the monastery without passing on his position, but ultimately Qingliao was instructed by a fiscal commissioner named Chen to take charge of the monastery. The students there apparently were amazed at his degree of loyalty to his original teacher. This story has historical significance because it suggests that Qingliao could have accepted Daohe’s offer to essentially switch heirs, indicating that teacher-student transmission was probably more flexible than often thought. Zhenxie Qingliao is also remembered as the initial target of the koan advocate Dahui Zonggao's attacks on silent illumination-style meditation.\n"}
