{"id": "37958263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37958263", "title": "2009 flu pandemic timeline summary", "text": "2009 flu pandemic timeline summary\n\nThis article covers the chronology of the 2009 novel influenza A (H1N1) pandemic. Flag icons denote the first announcements of confirmed cases by the respective nation-states, their first deaths (and other major events such as their first intergenerational cases, cases of zoonosis, and the start of national vaccination campaigns), and relevant sessions and announcements of the World Health Organization (WHO), the European Union (and its agency the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control),\nand the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC).\n\nUnless otherwise noted, references to terms like S-OIV, H1N1 and such, all refer to this new A(H1N1) strain and not to sundry other strains of H1N1 which are endemic in humans, birds and pigs.\n\n"}
{"id": "27052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27052", "title": "Administrative division", "text": "Administrative division\n\nAn administrative division, unit, entity, area or region, also referred to as a subnational entity, statoid, constituent unit, or country subdivision, is a portion of a country or other region delineated for the purpose of administration. Administrative divisions are granted a certain degree of autonomy and are usually required to manage themselves through their own local governments. Countries are divided up into these smaller units to make managing their land and the affairs of their people easier. A country may be divided into provinces, which, in turn, may be divided in whole or in part into municipalities.\n\nAdministrative divisions are conceptually separate from dependent territories, with the former being an integral part of the state and the other being only under some lesser form of control. However, the term \"administrative division\" can include dependent territories as well as accepted administrative divisions (for example, in geographical databases).\n\nFor clarity and convenience the standard neutral reference for the largest administrative subdivision of a country is called the \"first-level administrative division\" or \"first administrative level\". Next smaller is called \"second-level administrative division\" or \"second administrative level\".\n\nIn many of the following terms originating from British cultural influence, areas of relatively low mean population density might bear a title of an entity one would expect to be either larger or smaller. There is no fixed rule, for \"all politics is local\" as is perhaps well demonstrated by their relative lack of systemic order. In the realm of self-government, any of these can and does occur along a stretch of road—which for the most part is passing through rural unsettled countryside. Since the terms are administrative political subdivisions of the local regional government their exact relationship and definitions are subject to home rule considerations, tradition, as well as state statute law and local governmental (administrative) definition and control. In British cultural legacy, most territorial entities begin with fairly expansive counties which encompass an appreciably large area, but which may evolve over time into a number of smaller entities.\n\nWithin those entities are the large and small cities or towns, which may or may not be the county seat. Some of the world's larger cities culturally, if not officially, span several counties and those crossing state or provincial boundaries culturally are quite common as well, but are rarely incorporated within the same municipal government. Many sister cities share a water boundary which quite often serves as a border of both cities and counties. For example, Cambridge and Boston, Massachusetts appear to the casual traveler as one large city, while locally they each are quite culturally different and occupy different counties.\n\n\"General terms for these incorporated places include \"municipality,\" \"settlement,\" \"locality,\" and \"populated place.\"\"\n\n\nDue to variations in their use worldwide, consistency in the translation of terms from non-English to English is sometimes difficult to maintain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32646260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32646260", "title": "Archipelago (Åland)", "text": "Archipelago (Åland)\n\nArchipelago is a subdivision of Åland and one of the Sub-regions of Finland since 2009.\n"}
{"id": "20187470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20187470", "title": "Barrow Area Information Database", "text": "Barrow Area Information Database\n\nThe Barrow Area Information Database (BAID) is designed to support Arctic science with a special focus on the research hubs of Barrow, Atqasuk and Ivotuk on the North Slope of Alaska.\n\nThe BAID Internet Map Server (BAID-IMS) is freely available to scientists, land managers, educators and the local community. Users can navigate to areas of interest and explore or query information about field-based scientific research. Current and historic research sites are shown as points with links to details about project investigators, discipline, funding program, year, related web sites, site photos and other information. Users can print or export maps for presentations and export tabular information.\n\nBAID-IMS currently includes the locations of over 7000 research plots and instrument locations. This ongoing effort incorporates both new research locations and sampling sites dating back to the 1940s. BAID-IMS includes satellite imagery and other remote sensing products, topographic maps, land ownership information and local infrastructure that facilitates research and science communication.\n\nThe Barrow Area Information Database (BAID) was initiated in June 2000 as a cooperative project between Michigan State University's Arctic Ecology Laboratory and the Barrow Arctic Science Consortium (BASC). The project had humble beginnings as a Microsoft Access database which was used to centralize information about research plots mapped with BASC's new DGPS system. In 2003, BASC's Digital Subcommittee saw an opportunity to visual the BAID database with Internet Map Server (IMS) technology and commonly requested base maps. The BAID-IMS prototype was soon released. On September 1, 2005 NSF awarded funding for the project to continue through August 30, 2009.\n\nBAID-IMS currently includes the locations of over 7000 research plots and instrument locations. This ongoing effort incorporates both new research locations and sampling sites dating back to the 1940s.\n\nIn order to facilitate the documentation of field research sites in the Barrow area, the University of Texas at El Paso Systems Ecology Laboratory provides Differential GPS support to National Science Foundation researchers during the peak Summer field season (June 1 - August 15). Support for historical studies and for other agencies working the vicinity of the Barrow Environmental Observatory also provided.\n\nBAID-IMS can be used to mine information about research locations, project descriptions, photographs and contact information.\n\nMetadata that meets the standards of the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) is available (or under development) for many data layers in BAID-IMS. Data that is considered unrestricted can be downloaded at the Arctic System Science (ARCSS) Data Coordination Center (ADCC) at the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) located at University of Colorado at Boulder.\n\nBAID-IMS is linked to the Circumarctic Environmental Observatories Network and efforts to develop an Arctic Spatial Data Infrastructure.\n\nBAID-IMS is hosted at the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP). The application was designed with ESRI's ArcIMS 9.2 software. BAID-IMS currently integrates geospatial data from SDE databases, shapefiles, GeoTiffs and ERDAS Imagine files. Testing is underway to migrate the application to an ArcGIS Server Web Mapping Application. Dell blade server technology is employed to host the IMS application and associated database. Bulk purchases agreements and educational discounts available to UTEP have been leveraged in the acquisition of computer hardware, software, mapping grade GPS units and digital cameras in support of this effort. Support for Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) standards are enhanced with each upgrade to the application. An OGC Web Mapping Service (WMS) and a KML for use in Virtual Globes, such as Google Earth are also planned for release in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "28914201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28914201", "title": "Begovo Pole", "text": "Begovo Pole\n\nBegovo Pole () (meaning \"Bey's field\") is a karst field on mount Jakupica, on the north side of peak Solunska Glava, located in central Macedonia.\n\nThe field is 1.5 km long and 500 to 1000 m wide and it is slightly sloped westwards. There is a small stream flowing through it forming a few karst lakes and then loses among the sink holes. The water that is lost on Begovo Pole appears at the springs of Babuna river on the other side of Solunska Glava.\n\nThere are several speleological studies conducted on the karst topology around Solunska glava. It is assumed that beneath the peak there are enormous reservoirs of freshwater, which coincides with the old name for the mountain range \"Mokra Planina\" (which translates to Wet Mountain).\n"}
{"id": "8157239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8157239", "title": "Bletting", "text": "Bletting\n\nBletting is a process of softening that certain fleshy fruits undergo, beyond ripening. There are some fruits that are either sweeter after some bletting, such as sea buckthorn, or for which most varieties can be eaten raw only after bletting, such as medlars, persimmons, quince, service tree fruit, and wild service tree fruit (\"chequers\"). The rowan or mountain ash fruit must be bletted and cooked to be edible, to break down the toxic parasorbic acid (hexenollactone) into sorbic acid.\n\nChemically speaking, bletting brings about an increase in sugars and a decrease in the acids and tannins that make the unripe fruit astringent.\n\nRipe medlars, for example, are taken from the tree, placed somewhere cool, and allowed to ripen for several weeks. In \"Trees and Shrubs\", horticulturist F. A. Bush wrote about medlars that \"if the fruit is wanted it should be left on the tree until late October and stored until it appears in the first stages of decay; then it is ready for eating. More often the fruit is used for making jelly.\" Ideally, the fruit should be harvested from the tree immediately following a hard frost, which starts the bletting process by breaking down cell walls and speeding softening.\n\nOnce the process is complete, the medlar flesh will have broken down enough that it can be spooned out of the skin. The taste of the sticky, mushy substance has been compared to sweet dates and dry applesauce, with a hint of cinnamon. In \"Notes on a Cellar-Book\", the great English oenophile George Saintsbury called bletted medlars the \"ideal fruit to accompany wine.\"\n\nThe English verb \"to blet\" was coined by John Lindley, in his \"Introduction to Botany\" (1835). He derived it from the French \"poire blette\" meaning 'overripe pear'. \"After the period of ripeness,\" he wrote, \"most fleshy fruits undergo a new kind of alteration; their flesh either rots or blets.\"\n\nIn Shakespeare's \"Measure for Measure\", he alluded to bletting when he wrote (IV. iii. 167) \"They would have married me to the rotten Medler.\" Thomas Dekker also draws a misogynistic comparison in his play The Honest Whore: \"I scarce know her, for the beauty of her cheek hath, like the moon, suffered strange eclipses since I beheld it: women are like medlars – no sooner ripe but rotten.\" Elsewhere in literature, D. H. Lawrence dubbed medlars \"wineskins of brown morbidity.\"\n\nThere is also an old saying, used in \"Don Quixote\", that \"time and straw make the medlars ripe,\" referring to the bletting process.\n\n"}
{"id": "51884325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51884325", "title": "Cascata dos Anjos", "text": "Cascata dos Anjos\n\nThe Cascata dos Anjos (\"Angels Waterfall\") is a waterfall located in the civil parish of Anjos, municipality of Ponta do Sol, on the Portuguese island of Madeira.\n\nThe waterfall cascades over the rockface onto the old E.R.101 regional roadway, and spills into the sea below.\n\n"}
{"id": "6554912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6554912", "title": "Dryad (DC Comics)", "text": "Dryad (DC Comics)\n\nDryad is a fictional planet in the DC Universe. Originally referred to as Korlon, the planet first appeared in \"Superboy and the Legion of Super-Heroes\" #253 (July 1979), and was created by Gerry Conway and Joe Staton.\n\nIt was colonized by humans who later discovered a sentient race of rock-like beings, known as \"Dryads\", who lived there and were befriended by the colonists. L.E.G.I.O.N. member Strata hails from Dryad.\n\nIn the 30th century, the planet was facing destruction and evacuated by the Legion of Super-Heroes. Several youths from this planet including Blok mistakenly believed the Legion was the cause of their planet's destruction, and were recruited by the Dark Man, who transformed them into the League of Super-Assassins. After they were defeated, Blok joined the Legion of Super-Heroes.\n"}
{"id": "24842835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24842835", "title": "Environmental social science", "text": "Environmental social science\n\nEnvironmental social science is the broad, transdisciplinary study of interrelations between humans and the natural environment. Environmental social scientists work within and between the fields of anthropology, communication studies, economics, geography, history, political science, psychology, and sociology; and also in the interdisciplinary fields of environmental studies, human ecology and political ecology, social epidemiology, among others.\n\nIdeologies, fields and concepts in environmental social science aim to convey environmental issues as intertwined in societal relations, institutions and human activities that continually shape the environment or are themselves shaped by the environment. For example, political ecology is based on the premise that the environment is not \"A-political\" therefore the way it is managed, who has access to the environment, how environmental resources are distributed are shaped through political structures, power relations, economic institutions and social processes. Paul Robbins, conveys this in his differentiation of \"A-political verse political ecologies\". According to Robbins political ecology places emphasis on identifying \"broader systems rather than blaming proximate and local forces; between viewing ecological systems as power-laden rather than politically inert; and between taking an explicitly normative approach rather than one that claims the objectivity of disinterest\". Human environmental relations reverberate through \"the system\"  (politics, economics, power relations) moving through an entire web of human relations and structures that are intertwined in ecological relations.\n\nTherefore, environmental social scientists stress human – environmental relationships. Another idea that has risen to prominence in environmental social science in light of this, is the idea of \"environmental justice\" which connects issues in the field of social justice with issues related to the environment. In describing environmental justice, the concepts emphasized by Shoreman-Ouimet and Kopnina include \"equity equality, and rights issues in relation to both social and ecological actors\". This pans out in debates about environmental vulnerability and the unequal distribution of resources. Here lies the idea, that certain groups are made more vulnerable to \"environmental burdens\" while others gain more access to \"environmental benefits\" as defined in terms of environmental resources and services.\n\nIn further attempting to understand human - environmental relationships disciplines of environmental social science have begun to explore relationships between humans and non-humans, to understand how both interact with each other within the natural world. Ideas related to exploring human and animal interactions within the natural world, have become prominent in environmental ethics. Shoreman Ouimet and Kopnina define environment ethics as \"a sub-discipline of philosophy that deals with the ethical problems surrounding the environment, in some cases providing ethical justification and moral motivation for the cause of environmental protection or for considerations of animal welfare\". This has culminated in debates regarding environmental value and moral rights and who within the larger ecosystem should be assigned these rights. Environmental ethics explores the dialectic between human and nature exploring how the human configuration of nature may in turn reshape humans, their relationships and their conditions. Ideas that have emerged from the questions seeking to examine this dialectic include those of \"post-domesticity and domesticity\". Domesticity refers to societal dynamics produced in societies in which humans have daily contact with animals other than pets in contrast in post-domesticity people are quite distant from the animals they consume in referencing the ideas of Bulliet (2005) Emel and Neo convey that a distance from witnessing the processes that govern animal life including births, deaths while consuming animals as food, impacts people differently than if they were to be interacting continuously with animals. They mention that post- domesticity may produce feelings of guilt however the continued distance between animal life brought by interacting with animals as a commodity may cause people to only distantly relate to them or think of them as packages in a store disassociating them from the life-cycles they embody. Therefore environmental science has paved the way to multiple concepts, ideas and paradigms that differ among each other but all seek to intertwine issues related to the environment with other fields and issues in the social sciences.\n\nSocial epidemiologists research how SES (socio-economic status) determines varying access to resources like income and prestige can generate stratification in health and quality of life. Often, their investigations relate to the social determinants of health which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports as the \"conditions in the places where people live, learn, work, and play ... that affect a wide range of health risks and outcomes\". These epidemiologists must work in conjunction with environmental social scientists to understand the significance of different environments' effects on humans. Such work influences environmental and public health policies to better the living standards for humans globally. The Fifth European Ministerial Conference on Environment and Health agreed to work on improving low-income housing conditions with new urban planning, health equity, and environmental justice policies with a specific focus on preventing children from exposure to significant environmental health risks. Certain environments' affects on humans provides trends that social epidemiologists can investigate to determine if they are related to a divide of social status especially if only a certain part of the population is negatively affected. Epidemiology uses a host-agent-environment triangle framework to understand why humans are falling ill and this three prong approach allows social epidemiologists to explore how the environment is contributing to the decline in health status for a subsection of or the entire population. It promotes the idea that the social, cultural, economic, political and environmental factors are all important factors to be considered, and health impact assessments (HIA) recommended by social epidemiologists working with environment social scientists are effectively making positive changes in the environment. The World Health Organization (WHO) worked with its members to compose the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) protocol in 2001 to ensure health impact assessments would be made with environmental assessments for policies relating to bettering the quality of life especially within low socioeconomic communities all around the world. As the environment can create stressors that are factors (i.e. low quality housing in areas of high pollution) that limit the quality of life of millions of people globally, environmental social scientists work collaboratively with the data social epidemiologists investigate and provide to understand the relationship between health status and environmental issues. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58222075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58222075", "title": "Geology of Monaco", "text": "Geology of Monaco\n\nThe geology of Monaco is closely related to the end of the Western Alps, forming the small country's steep cornice coastline. During the last 2.5 million years of the Quaternary high sea levels between glaciations formed erosion terraces and left behind coastal sediment deposits. Beach sands and mixed with frost chippings and other cold-weather remnants of the glacial period and preserve large mammal remains and archaeological remains of early humans in the Gîte des Moulins Cave and the Jardin Exotique. Monaco hosts the International Hydrographic Bureau. <ref></ref >\n"}
{"id": "5756465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5756465", "title": "Growing region", "text": "Growing region\n\nA growing region is an area suited by climate and soil conditions to the cultivation of a certain type of crop or plant group.\n\nMost crops are cultivated not in one place only, but in several distinct regions in diverse parts of the world. Cultivation in these areas may be enabled by a large-scale regional climate, or by a unique microclimate.\n\nGrowing regions, because of the need for climate consistency, are usually oriented along a general latitude, and in the United States these are often called \"belts\".\n\nThe growing region of a traditional staple crop often has a strong cultural cohesiveness.\n\nThe need for growing fodder has also historically limited livestock to certain agricultural regions.\n\nIn Viticulture, American Viticultural Area - AVA regions are a specialized geographic type; and European wine appellations of Protected Geographical Status origin are another.\n\n"}
{"id": "3028054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3028054", "title": "Guadalupe, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Guadalupe, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nGuadalupe is a town located in the northern part of São Tomé Island, which is part of the island nation of São Tomé and Príncipe. It is the seat of Lobata District. Its population is 1,081 (2008 est.). Guadalupe lies 1.5 km northwest of Agostinho Neto, 10 km east of Neves and 11 km northwest of the capital São Tomé.\n\n"}
{"id": "7220801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7220801", "title": "Hamistagan", "text": "Hamistagan\n\nAs described in the 9th century Zoroastrian text \"Dadestan-i Denig\" (\"Religious Decisions\"), hamistagan or is a neutral place or state for the departed souls of those whose good deeds and bad deeds were equal in life. Here these souls await Judgment Day. Meanwhile, those who did mostly good experience bliss and those who did mostly evil suffer torment. \"Religious Decisions\" was written in Persia (modern day Iran) when Islam was replacing Zoroastrianism as the majority religion.\n\nHamistagan can be compared to Roman Catholic purgatory because it occupies a position between heaven and hell, but hamistagan is a place of waiting, not punishment and purification. As a neutral place, hamistagan is more like the Roman Catholic limbo.\n\nIslam does not have a similar neutral place where some await Judgment Day. The angels Nakir and Munkar interrogate a recently deceased soul, which then remains in its grave in a state of bliss or torment until Judgment Day.\n"}
{"id": "26048515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26048515", "title": "Harrana", "text": "Harrana\n\nHarrana, named after Qasr Kharana, an archeological Umayyad desert palace in the area, is part of the Jordan eastern plateau some 60 kilometers southeast of Amman city.\nThe area is largely uninhabited except for seasonal bedouin sheep and camel herders who bring their livestock to the area during December through April.\n\nHarrana's climate, much like the other parts of the country, is influenced by the moderate Mediterranean climate from the west, the very hot Sahara's climate from the east, and the cold European climate from the north.\n\nThough arid, the area is rich in animal life. Birds, owls, rodents, rabbits, foxes, occasional wolves and hyenas, snakes, and lizards are some of the animals that take refuge in Harrana. A variety of flowering plants bloom during late winter–early spring months including mustard plants, oriental popies, and wild irisis. \"Cistanche tubulosa\", or the desert broomrape, is also another beautiful resident in Harrana blooming towards the end of spring and beginning of summer.\n\nHarrana is significant for its fossil deposits preserved in gigantic limestone concretions that date back to the latest Maastrichtian some 66–67 million years ago, a period notably close to the end-Cretaceous extinction events when many groups of animals such as dinosaurs and as much as 65–70% of all marine animal species became extinct. Mosasaur specimens along with their remarkably well preserved scale imprints have been discovered from late Maastrichtian deposits of the Muwaqqar Chalk Marl Formation of Harrana\nThe best preserved and complete specimens of the extinct teleostean fish genus \"Saurocephalus\" and the most complete mosasaur \"Carinodens\" remains come from the latest Maastrichtian of Harrana.\n"}
{"id": "33949413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33949413", "title": "Hypoxia in fish", "text": "Hypoxia in fish\n\nFish are exposed to large oxygen fluctuations in their aquatic environment since the inherent properties of water can result in marked spatial and temporal differences in the concentration of oxygen (see oxygenation and underwater). Fish respond to hypoxia with varied behavioral, physiological, and cellular responses in order to maintain homeostasis and organism function in an oxygen-depleted environment. The biggest challenge fish face when exposed to low oxygen conditions is maintaining metabolic energy balance, as 95% of the oxygen consumed by fish is used for ATP production through the electron transport chain. Therefore, hypoxia survival requires a coordinated response to secure more oxygen from the depleted environment and counteract the metabolic consequences of decreased ATP production at the mitochondria. This article is a review of the effects of hypoxia on all aspects of fish, ranging from behavior down to genes.\n\nA fish’s hypoxia tolerance can be represented in different ways. A commonly used representation is the critical O tension (P), which is the lowest water O tension (P) at which a fish can maintain a stable O consumption rate (M). A fish with a lower P is therefore thought to be more hypoxia-tolerant than a fish with a higher P. But while P is often used to represent hypoxia tolerance, it more accurately represents the ability to take up environmental O at hypoxic Ps and does not incorporate the significant contributions of anaerobic glycolysis and metabolic suppression to hypoxia tolerance (see below). P is nevertheless closely tied to a fish’s hypoxia tolerance, in part because some fish prioritize their use of aerobic metabolism over anaerobic metabolism and metabolic suppression. It therefore remains a widely used hypoxia tolerance metric.\n\nA fish’s hypoxia tolerance can also be represented as the amount of time it can spend at a particular hypoxic P before it loses dorsal-ventral equilibrium (called time-to-LOE), or the P at which it loses equilibrium when P is decreased from normoxia to anoxia at some set rate (called P-of-LOE). A higher time-to-LOE value or a lower P-of-LOE value therefore imply enhanced hypoxia tolerances. In either case, LOE is a more holistic representation of overall hypoxia tolerance because it incorporates all contributors to hypoxia tolerance, including aerobic metabolism, anaerobic metabolism and metabolic suppression.\n\nIn mammals there are several structures that have been implicated as oxygen sensing structures; however, all of these structures are situated to detect aortic or internal hypoxia since mammals rarely run into environmental hypoxia. These structures include the type I cells of the carotid body, the neuroepithelial bodies of the lungs as well as some central and peripheral neurons and vascular smooth muscle cells.\nIn fish, the neuroepithelial cells (NEC) have been implicated as the major oxygen sensing cells. NEC have been found in all teleost fish studied to date, and are likely a highly conserved structure within many taxa of fish. NEC are also found in all four gill arches within several different structures, such as along the filaments, at the ends of the gill rakers and throughout the lamellae. Two separate neural pathways have been identified within the zebrafish gill arches both the motor and sensory nerve fibre pathways. Since neuroepithelial cells are distributed throughout the gills, they are often ideally situated to detect both arterial as well as environmental oxygen.\n\nNeuroepithelial cells (NEC) are thought to be neuron-like chemoreceptor cells because they rely on membrane potential changes for the release of neurotransmitters and signal transmission onto nearby cells. Once NEC of the zebrafish gills come in contact with either environmental or aortic hypoxia, an outward K \"leak\" channel is inhibited. It remains unclear how these K channels are inhibited by a shortage of oxygen because there are yet to be any known direct binding sites for \"a lack of oxygen\", only whole cell and ion channel responses to hypoxia. K \"leak\" channels are two-pore-domain ion channels that are open at the resting membrane potential of the cell and play a major role in setting the equilibrium resting membrane potential of the cell. Once this \"leak\" channel is closed, the K is no longer able to freely flow out of the cell, and the membrane potential of the NEC increases; the cell becomes depolarized. This depolarization causes voltage-gated Ca channels to open, and for extracellular Ca to flow down its concentration gradient into the cell causing the intracellular Ca concentration to greatly increase. Once the Ca is inside the cell, it binds to the vesicle release machinery and facilitates binding of the t-snare complex on the vesicle to the s-snare complex on the NEC cell membrane which initiates the release of neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft.\n\nIf the post-synaptic cell is a sensory neuron, then an increased firing rate in that neuron will transmit the signal to the central nervous system for integration. Whereas, if the post-synaptic cell is a connective pillar cell or a vascular smooth muscle cell, then the serotonin will cause vasoconstriction and previously unused lamellae will be recruited through recruitment of more capillary beds, and the total surface area for gas exchange per lamella will be increased.\n\nIn fish, the hypoxic signal is carried up to the brain for processing by the glossopharyngeal (cranial nerve IX) and vagus (cranial nerve X) nerves. The first branchial arch is innervated by the glossopharyngeal nerve (cranial nerve IX); however all four arches are innervated by the vagus nerve (cranial nerve X). Both the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves carry sensory nerve fibres into the brain and central nervous system.\n\nThrough studies using mammalian model organisms, there are two main hypotheses for the location of oxygen sensing in chemoreceptor cells: the membrane hypothesis and the mitochondrial hypothesis. The membrane hypothesis was proposed for the carotid body in mice, and it predicts that oxygen sensing is an ion balance initiated process. The mitochondrial hypothesis was also proposed for the carotid body of mice, but it relies on the levels of oxidative phosphorylation and/or reactive oxygen species (ROS) production as a cue for hypoxia. Specifically, the oxygen sensitive K currents are inhibited by HO and NADPH oxidase activation. There is evidence for both of these hypotheses depending on the species used for the study. For the neuroepithelial cells in the zebrafish gills, there is strong evidence supporting the \"membrane hypothesis\" due to their capacity to respond to hypoxia after removal of the contents of the cell. However, there is no evidence against multiple sites for oxygen sensing in organisms.\n\nMany hypoxic environments never reach the level of anoxia and most fish are able to cope with this stress using different physiological and behavioural strategies. Fish that use air breathing organs (ABO) tend to live in environments with highly variable oxygen content and rely on aerial respiration during times when there is not enough oxygen to support water-breathing. Though all teleosts have some form of swim bladder, many of them are not capable of breathing air, and they rely on aquatic surface respiration as a supply of more oxygenated water at the surface of the water. However, many species of teleost fish are obligate water breathers and do not display either of these surface respiratory behaviours.\n\nTypically, acute hypoxia causes hyperventilation, bradycardia and an elevation in gill vascular resistance in teleosts. However, the benefit of these changes in blood pressure to oxygen uptake has not been supported in a recent study of the rainbow trout. It is possible that the acute hypoxia response is simply a stress response, and the advantages found in early studies may only result after acclimatization to the environment.\n\nHypoxia can modify normal behavior. Parental behaviour meant to provide oxygen to the eggs is often affected by hypoxia. For example, fanning behavior (swimming on the spot near the eggs to create a flow of water over them, and thus a constant supply of oxygen) is often increased when oxygen is less available. This has been documented in sticklebacks, gobies, and clownfishes, among others. Gobies may also increase the size of the openings in the nest they build, even though this may increase the risk of predation on the eggs. Rainbow cichlids often move their young fry closer to the water surface, where oxygen is more available, during hypoxic episodes.\n\nBehavioural adaptations meant to survive when oxygen is scarce include reduced activity levels, aquatic surface respiration, and air breathing.\n\nAs oxygen levels decrease, fish may at first increase movements in an attempt to escape the hypoxic zone, but eventually they greatly reduce their activity levels, thus reducing their energetic (and therefore oxygen) demands. Atlantic herring show this exact pattern. Other examples of fishes that reduce their activity levels under hypoxia include the common sole, the guppy, the small-spotted catshark, and the viviparous eelpout. Some sharks that ram-ventilate their gills may understandably increase their swimming speeds under hypoxia, to bring more water to the gills.\n\nIn response to decreasing dissolved oxygen level in the environment, fish swim up to the surface of the water column and ventilate at the top layer of the water where it contains relatively higher level of dissolved oxygen, a behavior called aquatic surface respiration (ASR). Oxygen diffuses into water from air and therefore the top layer of water in contact with air contains more oxygen. This is true only in stagnant water; in running water all layers are mixed together and oxygen levels are the same throughout the water column. One environment where ASR often takes place is tidepools, particularly at night. Separation from the sea at low tide means that water is not renewed, fish crowding within the pool means that oxygen is quickly depleted, and absence of light at night means that there is no photosynthesis to replenish the oxygen. Examples of tidepool species that perform ASR include the tidepool sculpin, \"Oligocottus maculosus\", the three-spined stickleback, and the mummichog.\n\nBut ASR is not limited to the intertidal environment. Most tropical and temperate fish species living in stagnant waters engage in ASR during hypoxia. One study looked at 26 species representing eight families of non-air breathing fishes from the North American great plains, and found that all but four of them performed ASR during hypoxia. Another study looked at 24 species of tropical fish common to the pet trade, from tetras to barbs to cichlids, and found that all of them performed ASR. An unusual situation in which ASR is performed is during winter, in lakes covered by ice, at the interface between water and ice or near air bubbles trapped underneath the ice.\n\nSome species may show morphological adaptations, such as a flat head and an upturned mouth, that allow them to perform ASR without breaking the water surface (which would make them more visible to aerial predators). One example is the mummichog, whose upturned mouth suggests surface feeding, but whose feeding habits are not particularly restricted to the surface. In the tambaqui, a South American species, exposure to hypoxia induces within hours the development of additional blood vessels inside the lower lip, enhancing its ability to take up oxygen during ASR. Swimming upside down may also help fishes perform ASR, as in some upside-down catfish.\n\nSome species may hold an air bubble within the mouth during ASR. This may assist buoyancy as well as increase the oxygen content of the water passing over the bubble on its way to the gills. Another way to reduce buoyancy costs is to perform ASR on rocks or plants that provide support near the water surface.\n\nASR significantly affects survival of fish during severe hypoxia. In the shortfin molly for example, survival was approximately four times higher in individuals able to perform ASR as compared to fish not allowed to perform ASR during their exposure to extreme hypoxia.\n\nASR may be performed more often when the need for oxygen is higher. In the sailfin molly, gestating females (this species is a livebearer) spend about 50% of their time in ASR as compared to only 15% in non-gestating females under the same low levels of oxygen.\n\nAerial respiration is the ‘gulping’ of air at the surface of water to directly extract oxygen from the atmosphere. Aerial respiration evolved in fish that were exposed to more frequent hypoxia; also, species that engage in aerial respiration tend to be more hypoxia tolerant than those which do not air-breath during the hypoxia.\n\nThere are two main types of air breathing fish—facultative and non-facultative. Under normoxic conditions facultative fish can survive without having to breathe air from the surface of the water. However, non-facultative fish must respire at the surface even in normal dissolved oxygen levels because their gills cannot extract enough oxygen from the water.\n\nMany air breathing freshwater teleosts use ABOs to effectively extract oxygen from air while maintaining functions of the gills. ABOs are modified gastrointestinal tracts, gas bladders, and labyrinth organs; they are highly vascularized and provide additional method of extracting oxygen from the air. Fish also use ABO for storing the retained oxygen.\n\nBoth ASR and aerial respiration require fish to travel to the top of water column and this behaviour increases the predation risks by aerial predators or other piscivores inhabiting near the surface of the water. In order to cope with the increased predation risk upon surfacing, some fish perform ASR or aerial respiration in schools in order to ‘dilute’ the predation risk. When fish can visually detect the presence of their aerial predators, they simply refrain from surfacing, or prefer to surface in areas where they can be detected less easily (i.e. turbid, shaded areas).\n\nGill remodelling happens in only a few species of fish, and it involves the buildup or removal of an inter-lamellar cell mass (ILCM). As a response to hypoxia, some fish are able to remodel their gills to increase respiratory surface area, with some species such as goldfish doubling their lamellar surface areas in as little as 8 hours. The increased respiratory surface area comes as a trade-off with increased metabolic costs because the gills are a very important site for many important processes including respiratory gas exchange, acid-base regulation, nitrogen excretion, osmoregulation, hormone regulation, metabolism, and environmental sensing.\n\nThe crucian carp is one species able to remodel its gill filaments in response to hypoxia. Their inter-lamellar cells have high rates of mitotic activity which are influenced by both hypoxia and temperature. In cold (15 °C) water the crucian carp has more ILCM, but when the temperature is increased to 25 °C the ILCM is removed, just as it would be in hypoxic conditions. This same transition in gill morphology occurs in the goldfish when the temperature was raised from 7.5 °C to 15 °C. This difference may be due to the temperature regimes that these fish are typically found in, or there could be an underlying protective mechanism to prevent a loss of ion balance in stressful temperatures. Temperature also affects the speed at which the gills can be remodelled: for example, at 20 °C in hypoxia, the crucian carp can completely remove its ILCM in 6 hours, whereas at 8 °C, the same process takes 3–7 days. The ILCM is likely removed by apoptosis, but it is possible that when the fish is faced with the double stress of hypoxia at high temperature, the lamellae may be lost by physical degradation. Covering the gill lamellae may protect species like the crucian carp from parasites and environmental toxins during normoxia by limiting their surface area for inward diffusion while still maintaining oxygen transport due to an extremely high hemoglobin oxygen binding affinity.\n\nThe naked carp, a closely related species native to the high-altitude Lake Qinghai, is also able to remodel their gills in response to hypoxic conditions. In response to oxygen levels 95% lower than normoxic conditions, apoptosis of ILCM increases lamellar surface area by up to 60% after just 24 hours. However, this comes at a significant osmoregulatory cost, reducing sodium and chloride levels in the cytoplasm by over 10%. The morphological response to hypoxia by scaleless carp is the fastest respiratory surface remodelling reported in vertebrates thus far.\n\nFish exhibit a wide range of tactics to counteract aquatic hypoxia, but when escape from the hypoxic stress is not possible, maintaining oxygen extraction and delivery becomes an essential component to survival. Except for the Antarctic ice fish that does not, most fish use hemoglobin (Hb) within their red blood cells to bind chemically and deliver 95% of the oxygen extracted from the environment to the working tissues. Maintaining oxygen extraction and delivery to the tissues allows continued activity under hypoxic stress and is in part determined by modifications in two different blood parameters: hematocrit and the binding properties of hemoglobin.\n\nIn general, hematocrit is the number of red blood cells (RBC) in circulation and is highly variable among fish species. Active fish, like the blue marlin, tend to have higher hematocrits, whereas less active fish, such as the starry flounder exhibit lower hematocrits. Hematocrit may be increased in response to both short-term (acute) or long-term (chronic) hypoxia exposure and results in an increase in the total amount of oxygen the blood can carry, also known as the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. Acute changes in hematocrit are the result of circulating stress hormones (see - catecholamines) activating receptors on the spleen that cause the release of RBCs into circulation. During chronic hypoxia exposure, the mechanism used to increase hematocrit is independent of the spleen and results from hormonal stimulation of the kidney by erythropoetin (EPO). Increasing hematocrit in response to erythropoietin is observed after approximately one week and is therefore likely under genetic control of hypoxia inducible factor hypoxia inducible factor (HIF).\nWhile increasing hematocrit means that the blood can carry a larger total amount of oxygen, a possible advantage during hypoxia, increasing the number of RBCs in the blood can also lead to certain disadvantages. First, A higher hematocrit results in more viscous blood (especially in cold water) increasing the amount of energy the cardiac system requires to pump the blood through the system and secondly depending on the transit time of the blood across the branchial arch and the diffusion rate of oxygen, an increased hematocrit may result in less efficient transfer of oxygen from the environment to the blood.\n\nAn alternative mechanism to preserve O delivery in the face of low ambient oxygen is to increase the affinity of the blood. The oxygen content of the blood is related to PaO and is illustrated using an oxygen equilibrium curve (OEC). Fish hemoglobins, with the exception of the agnathans, are tetramers that exhibit cooperativity of O binding and have sigmoidal OECs.\n\nThe binding affinity of hemoglobin to oxygen is estimated using a measurement called P50 (the partial pressure of oxygen at which hemoglobin is 50% bound with oxygen) and can be extremely variable. If the hemoglobin has a weak affinity for oxygen, it is said to have a high P50 and therefore constrains the environment in which a fish can inhabit to those with relatively high environmental PO. Conversely, fish hemoglobins with a low P50 bind strongly to oxygen and are then of obvious advantage when attempting to extract oxygen from hypoxic or variable PO environments. The use of high affinity (low P50) hemoglobins results in reduced ventillatory and therefore energetic requirements when facing hypoxic insult. The oxygen binding affinity of hemoglobin (Hb-O) is regulated through a suite of allosteric modulators; the principal modulators used for controlling Hb-O affinity under hypoxic insult are:\n\nIn rainbow trout as well as a variety of other teleosts, increased RBC pH stems from the activation of B-andrenergic exchange protein (BNHE) on the RBC membrane via circulating catelcholamines. This process causes the internal pH of the RBC to increase through the outwards movement of and inwards movement of . The net consequence of alkalizing the RBC is an increase in Hb-O affinity via the Bohr effect. The net influx of ions and the compensatory activation of -ATPase to maintain ionic equilibrium within the RBC results in a steady decline in cellular ATP, also serving to increase Hb-O affinity. As a further result of inward movement, the osmolarity of the RBC increases causing osmotic influx of water and cell swelling. The dilution of the cell contents causes further spatial separation of hemoglobin from the inorganic phosphates and again serves to increase Hb-O affinity.\n\nNearly all animals have more than one kind of Hb present in the RBC. Multiple Hb isoforms (see isoforms) are particularly common in ectotherms, but especially in fish that are required to cope with both fluctutating temperature and oxygen availability. Hbs isolated from the European eel can be separated into anodic and cathodic isoforms. The anodic isoforms have low oxygen affinities (high P50) and marked Bohr effects, while the cathodic lack significant pH effects and are therefore thought to confer hypoxia tolerance. Several species of African cichlids raised from early stage development under either hypoxic or normoxic conditions were contrasted in an attempt to compare Hb isoforms. They demonstrated there were Hb isoforms specific to the hypoxia-raised individuals.\n\nTo deal with decreased ATP production through the electron transport chain, fish must activate anaerobic means of energy production (see anaerobic metabolism) while suppressing metabolic demands. The ability to decrease energy demand by metabolic suppression is essential to ensure hypoxic survival due to the limited efficiency of anaerobic ATP production.\n\nAerobic respiration, in which oxygen is used as the terminal electron acceptor, is crucial to all water-breathing fish. When fish are deprived of oxygen, they require other ways to produce ATP. Thus, a switch from aerobic metabolism to anaerobic metabolism occurs at the onset of hypoxia. Glycolysis and substrate-level phosphorylation are used as alternative pathways for ATP production. However, these pathways are much less efficient than aerobic metabolism. For example, when using the same substrate, the total yield of ATP in anaerobic metabolism is 15 times lower than in aerobic metabolism. This level of ATP production is not sufficient to maintain a high metabolic rate, therefore, the only survival strategy for fish is to alter their metabolic demands.\n\nMetabolic suppression is the regulated and reversible reduction of metabolic rate below basal metabolic rate (called standard metabolic rate in ectothermic animals). This reduces the fish’s rate of ATP use, which prolongs its survival time at severely hypoxic sub-P Ps by reducing the rate at which the fish’s finite anaerobic fuel stores (glycogen) are used. Metabolic suppression also reduces the accumulation rate of deleterious anaerobic end-products (lactate and protons), which delays their negative impact on the fish.\n\nThe mechanisms that fish use to suppress metabolic rate occur at behavioral, physiological and biochemical levels. Behaviorally, metabolic rate can be lowered through reduced locomotion, feeding, courtship, and mating. Physiologically, metabolic rate can be lowered through reduced growth, digestion, gonad development, and ventilation efforts. And biochemically, metabolic rate can be further lowered below standard metabolic rate through reduced gluconeogenesis, protein synthesis and degradation rates, and ion pumping across cellular membranes. Reductions in these processes lower ATP use rates, but it remains unclear whether metabolic suppression is induced through an initial reduction in ATP use or ATP supply.\n\nThe prevalence of metabolic suppression use among fish species has not been thoroughly explored. This is partly because the metabolic rates of hypoxia-exposed fish, including suppressed metabolic rates, can only be accurately measured using direct calorimetry, and this technique is seldom used for fish. The few studies that have used calorimetry reveal that some fish species employ metabolic suppression in hypoxia/anoxia (e.g., goldfish, tilapia, European eel) while others do not (e.g. rainbow trout, zebrafish). The species that employ metabolic suppression are more hypoxia-tolerant than the species that do not, which suggests that metabolic suppression enhances hypoxia tolerance. Consistent with this, differences in hypoxia tolerance among isolated threespine stickleback populations appear to result from differences in the use of metabolic suppression, with the more tolerant stickleback using metabolic suppression.\n\nFish that are capable of hypoxia-induced metabolic suppression reduce their metabolic rates by 30% to 80% relative to standard metabolic rates. Because this is not a complete cessation of metabolic rate, metabolic suppression can only prolong hypoxic survival, not sustain it indefinitely. If the hypoxic exposure lasts sufficiently long, the fish will succumb to a depletion of its glycogen stores and/or the over-accumulation of deleterious anaerobic end-products. Furthermore, the severely limited energetic scope that comes with a metabolically suppressed state means that the fish is unable to complete critical tasks such a predator avoidance and reproduction. Perhaps for these reasons, goldfish prioritize their use of aerobic metabolism in most hypoxic environments, reserving metabolic suppression for the extreme case of anoxia.\n\nIn addition to a reduction in the rate of protein synthesis, it appears that some species of hypoxia-tolerant fish conserve energy by employing Hochachka’s ion channel arrest hypothesis. This hypothesis makes two predictions:\nThe first prediction holds true. When membrane permeability to Na+ and K+ ions was compared between reptiles and mammals, reptile membranes were discovered to be five times less leaky. The second prediction has been more difficult to prove experimentally, however, indirect measures have showed a decrease in Na+/K+-ATPase activity in eel and trout hepatocytes during hypoxic conditions. Results seem to be tissue-specific, as crucian carp exposed to hypoxia do not undergo a reduction in Na+/K+ ATPase activity in their brain. Although evidence is limited, ion channel arrest enables organisms to maintain ion channel concentration gradients and membrane potentials without consuming large amounts of ATP.\n\nThe limiting factor for fish undergoing hypoxia is the availability of fermentable substrate for anaerobic metabolism; once substrate runs out, ATP production ceases. Endogenous glycogen is present in tissue as a long term energy storage molecule. It can be converted into glucose and subsequently used as the starting material in glycolysis.\nA key adaptation to long-term survival during hypoxia is the ability of an organism to store large amounts of glycogen. Many hypoxia-tolerant species, such as carp, goldfish, killifish, and oscar contain the largest glycogen content (300-2000 µmol glocosyl units/g) in their tissue compared to hypoxia-sensitive fish, such as rainbow trout, which contain only 100 µmol glocosyl units/g. The more glycogen stored in a tissue indicates the capacity for that tissue to undergo glycolysis and produce ATP.\n\nWhen anaerobic pathways are turned on, glycogen stores are depleted and accumulation of acidic waste products occurs. This is known as a Pasteur effect. A challenge hypoxia-tolerant fish face is how to produce ATP anaerobically without creating a significant Pasteur effect. Along with a reduction in metabolism, some fish have adapted traits to avoid accumulation of lactate. For example, the crucian carp, a highly hypoxia-tolerant fish, has evolved to survive months of anoxic waters. A key adaptation is the ability to convert lactate to ethanol in the muscle and excrete it out of their gills. Although this process is energetically costly is it crucial to their survival in hypoxic waters.\n\nDNA microarray studies done on different fish species exposed to low-oxygen conditions have shown that at the genetic level fish respond to hypoxia by changing the expression of genes involved in oxygen transport, ATP production, and protein synthesis. In the liver of mudsuckers exposed to hypoxia there were changes in the expression of genes involved in heme metabolism such as hemopexin, heme oxygenase 1, and ferritin. Changes in the sequestration and metabolism of iron may suggest hypoxia induced erythropoiesis and increased demand for hemoglobin synthesis, leading to increased oxygen uptake and transport. Increased expression of myoglobin, which is normally only found in muscle tissue, has also been observed after hypoxia exposure in the gills of zebrafish and in non-muscle tissue of the common carp suggesting increased oxygen transport throughout fish tissues.\n\nMicroarray studies done on fish species exposed to hypoxia typically show a metabolic switch, that is, a decrease in the expression of genes involved in aerobic metabolism and an increase in expression of genes involved in anaerobic metabolism. Zebrafish embryos exposed to hypoxia decreased expression of genes involved in the citric acid cycle including, succinate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, and citrate synthase, and increased expression of genes involved in glycolysis such as phosphoglycerate mutase, enolase, aldolase, and lactate dehydrogenase. A decrease in protein synthesis is an important response to hypoxia in order to decrease ATP demand for whole organism metabolic suppression. Decreases in the expression of genes involved in protein synthesis, such as elongation factor-2 and several ribosomal proteins, have been shown in the muscle of the mudsucker and gills of adult zebrafish after hypoxia exposure .\n\nResearch in mammals has implicated hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) as a key regulator of gene expression changes in response to hypoxia However, a direct link between fish HIFs and gene expression changes in response to hypoxia has yet to be found. Phylogenetic analysis of available fish, tetrapod, and bird HIF-α and -β sequences shows that the isoforms of both subunits present in mammals are also represented in fish Within fish, HIF sequences group close together and are distinct from tetrapod and bird sequences. As well, amino acid analysis of available fish HIF-α and -β sequences reveals that they contain all functional domains shown to be important for mammalian HIF function, including the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) domain, Per-ARNT-Sim (PAS) domain, and the oxygen-dependent degradation domain (ODD), which render the HIF-α subunit sensitive to oxygen levels. The evolutionary similarity between HIF sequences in fish, tetrapods and birds, as well as the conservation of important functional domains suggests that HIF function and regulation is similar between fish and mammalian species. There is also evidence of novel HIF mechanisms present in fish not found in mammals. In mammals, HIF-α protein is continuously synthesized and regulated post-translationally by changing oxygen conditions, but it has been shown in different fish species that HIF-α mRNA levels are also responsive to hypoxia. In the hypoxia tolerant grass carp, substantial increases in HIF-1α and HIF-3α mRNA were observed in all tissues after hypoxia exposure. Likewise, mRNA levels of HIF-1α and HIF-2α were hypoxia-responsive in the ovaries of the Atlantic croaker during both short and long term hypoxia.\n\n"}
{"id": "4217326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4217326", "title": "Intracluster medium", "text": "Intracluster medium\n\nIn astronomy, the intracluster medium (ICM) is the superheated plasma that permeates a galaxy cluster. The gas consists mainly of ionized hydrogen and helium and accounts for most of the baryonic material in galaxy clusters. The ICM is heated to temperatures on the order of 10 to 100 megakelvins, emitting strong X-ray radiation.\n\nThe ICM is composed primarily of ordinary baryons, mainly ionised hydrogen and helium. This plasma is enriched with heavier elements, including iron. The amount of heavier elements relative to hydrogen, known as metallicity in astronomy, is roughly a third of the value in the sun. The metallicity rises from the outer region towards the center and in some clusters (e.g. the Centaurus cluster) the metallicity of the gas can rise above that of the sun. Due to the gravitational field of clusters, metal-enriched gas ejected from supernovae remains gravitationally bound to the cluster as part of the ICM. Studying the chemical composition of typical ICMs at varying redshift, which corresponds to looking at different epochs of the evolution of the Universe, can provide a history record of element production.\n\n80-95% of the baryons in galaxy clusters reside in the ICM, rather than in the galaxies and single stars. However, most of the mass in a galaxy cluster consists of dark matter and not baryonic matter. For the Virgo Cluster, the ICM contains roughly 3 × 10 M - including all kinds of matter - while the total mass of the cluster is estimated to be 1.2 × 10 M.\n\nAlthough the ICM on the whole contains the bulk of a cluster's baryons, it is not very dense, with typical values of 10 particles per cubic centimeter. The mean free path of the particles is roughly 10 m, or about one lightyear. The density of the ICM rises towards the centre of the cluster with a relatively strong peak. In addition, the temperature of the ICM typically drops to 1/2 or 1/3 of the outer value in the central regions. Once the density of the plasma reaches a critical value, enough interactions between the ions ensures cooling via X-ray radiation.\n\nAs the ICM is at such high temperatures, it emits X-ray radiation, mainly by the bremsstrahlung process and X-ray emission lines from the heavy elements. These X-rays can be observed using an X-ray telescope and through analysis of this data, it is possible to determine the physical conditions, including the temperature, density, and metallicity, of the plasma.\n\nMeasurements of the temperature and density profiles in galaxy clusters allow for a determination of the mass distribution profile of the ICM through hydrostatic equilibrium modeling. The mass distributions determined from these methods reveal masses that far exceed the luminous mass seen and are thus a strong indication of dark matter in galaxy clusters.\n\nInverse Compton Scattering of low energy photons through interactions with the relativistic electrons in the ICM cause distortions in the spectrum of the cosmic microwave background radiation (CMB), known as the Sunyaev–Zel'dovich effect. These temperature distortions in the CMB can be used by telescopes such as the South Pole Telescope to detect dense clusters of galaxies at high redshifts\n\nPlasma in regions of the cluster, with a cooling time shorter than the age of the system, should be cooling due to strong X-ray radiation where emission is proportional to the density squared. Since the density of the ICM is highest towards the center of the cluster, the radiative cooling time drops a significant amount. The central cooled gas can no longer support the weight of the external hot gas and the pressure gradient drives what is known as a cooling flow where the hot gas from the external regions flows slowly towards the center of the cluster. This inflow would result in regions of cold gas and thus regions of new star formation. Recently however, with the launch of new X-ray telescopes such as the Chandra X-ray Observatory, images of galaxy clusters with better spatial resolution have been taken. These new images do not indicate signs of new star formation on the order of what was historically predicted, motivating research into the mechanisms that would prevent the central ICM from cooling.\n\nThere are two popular explanations of the mechanisms that prevent the central ICM from cooling: feedback from active galactic nuclei through injection of relativistic jets of plasma and sloshing of the ICM plasma during mergers with subclusters. The relativistic jets of material from active galactic nuclei can be seen in images taken by telescopes with high angular resolution such as the Chandra X-ray Observatory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1299435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299435", "title": "Ituri Rainforest", "text": "Ituri Rainforest\n\nThe Ituri Rainforest is a rainforest located in the Ituri Province of northeastern Democratic Republic of the Congo formerly called Zaire. The forest's name derives from the nearby Ituri River which flows through the rainforest, connecting firstly to the Aruwimi River and finally into the Congo.\n\nThe Ituri Rainforest is about 63,000 square kilometers in area, and is located between 0° and 3°N and 27° and 30° E. Elevation in the Ituri ranges from about 700 m to 1000 m. The average temperature is 31°C (88°F) and the average humidity is about 85% (Wilkie 1987). About one-fifth of the rainforest is made up of the Okapi Wildlife Reserve, a World Heritage Site. \n\nIt is also the home of the Mbuti pygmies, one of the hunter-gatherer peoples living in equatorial rainforests characterised by their short height (below one and a half metres, or 59 inches, on average). They were the subject of research by a variety of outsiders, including Patrick and Anne Eisner Putnam who lived on the banks of the Epulu River at the edge of the Ituri. They were also the subject of a study by Colin Turnbull, \"The Forest People\", in 1962.\n\nThe Ituri Rain forest was first traversed by Europeans in 1887 by Henry Morton Stanley on his Emin Pasha Relief Expedition.\n"}
{"id": "55456684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55456684", "title": "Jaskólski", "text": "Jaskólski\n\nJaskólski, feminine: Jaskólska is a Polish-language toponymic surname derived from any of the places named Jaskółki. The latter word is the plural of the Polish word \"jaskółka\", i.e., literally means \"swallows\". The surname may be phonemically transcribed as Jaskulski / Jaskulska. As a Polish noble surname, it belongs to the Leszczyc coat of arms heraldic clan.\n\nWhen transliterated via the Russian language, the surname accepts the forms \"Yaskolsky / Yaskolski\" (f.: \"Yaskolskaya\"), resp. \"Yaskulsky / Yaskulski\" (f.: \"Yaskulskaya\").\n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44869132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44869132", "title": "Keeping Up with the Kalashnikovs", "text": "Keeping Up with the Kalashnikovs\n\nKeeping Up with the Kalashnikovs is a 2014 novel by Irish journalist and author Paul Howard and serves as the fourteenth book in the Ross O'Carroll-Kelly series.\n\nThe title refers to \"Keeping Up with the Kardashians\" and the Kalashnikov rifle.\n\nFionn is taken captive while teaching at a school in Uganda. Ross and the guys go out to rescue him. Meanwhile, Sorcha has given birth to triplets and Honor is more difficult than ever.\n"}
{"id": "21912752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21912752", "title": "Land ownership in Canada", "text": "Land ownership in Canada\n\nLand ownership in Canada is held by governments, Indigenous groups, corporations, and individuals. Canada is the second-largest country in the world by area; at 9,093,507 km² or 3,511,085 mi² of land (and more if fresh water is not included) it occupies more than 6% of the Earth's surface. Since Canada uses primarily English-derived common law, the holders of the land actually have land tenure (permission to hold land from the Crown) rather than absolute ownership.\n\nThe majority of all lands in Canada are held by governments as public land and are known as Crown lands. About 89% of Canada's land area (8,886,356 km²) is Crown land, which may either be federal (41%) or provincial (48%); the remaining 11% is privately owned. Most federal-administered land is in the Canadian territories (Northwest Territories, Nunavut and Yukon), and is administered on behalf of Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada; only 4% of land in the provinces is federally controlled, largely in the form of National Parks, Indian reserves, or Canadian Forces bases. In contrast, provinces hold much of their territory as provincial Crown land, which may be held as Provincial Parks or wilderness.\n\nThe largest class of landowners are the provincial governments, who hold all unclaimed land in their jurisdiction. Over 90% of the sprawling boreal forest of Canada is provincial Crown land. Provincial lands account for 60% of the area of the province of Alberta, 94% of the land in British Columbia, 95% of Newfoundland and Labrador, and 48% of New Brunswick.\n\nThe largest single landowner in Canada by far, and by extension one of the world's largest, is the Government of Canada. The bulk of the federal government's lands are in the vast northern territories where Crown lands are vested in the federal, rather than territorial, government. In addition the federal government owns national parks, First Nations reserves and national defence installations.\n\nUntil the Natural Resources Acts of 1930 the prairie provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba, and to a limited extent British Columbia, did not control Crown lands or subsoil rights within their boundaries, which instead rested with the federal government. This deprived them of the benefits of royalties from mining, oil and gas, or forestry (stumpage) within their boundaries. This was a major source of Western alienation at the time.\n\nIn New France land was settled according to the seigneurial system, which was similar to the type of late feudalism practised in France at the time, and land was divided into long strip lots running back from the riverfront. This land pattern was also used in certain areas of Western Canada by French and Métis settlers.\n\nIn contrast, areas of British settlement used square block patterns of land distribution. Those in Eastern Canada contoured around geographical features and consisted of smaller lots. In Western Canada, where the American-influenced Dominion Land Survey was used, geographical features were largely ignored in favour of geometric standardization, with larger lots.\n\nIn Canadian law all lands are subject to the Crown, and this has been true since Britain acquired much of Eastern Canada from France by the Treaty of Paris (1763). However, the British and Canadian authorities recognized that indigenous peoples already on the lands had a prior claim, aboriginal title, which was not extinguished by the arrival of the Europeans. This is in direct contrast to the situation in Australia where the continent was declared terra nullius, or vacant land, and was seized from Aboriginal peoples without compensation. In consequence, all of Canada, save a section of southern Quebec exempted by the Royal Proclamation of 1763, is subject to Aboriginal title. Native groups historically negotiated treaties in which they traded tenure to the land for annuities and certain legal exemptions and privileges. Most of Western Canada was secured in this way by the government via the Numbered Treaties of 1871 to 1921, though not all groups signed treaties. In particular, in most of British Columbia Aboriginal title has never been transferred to the Crown. Many native groups, both those that have never signed treaties or those that are dissatisfied with the execution of treaties have made formal Aboriginal land claims against the government.\n\nThe Crown also gave tenure to much of Canada to a private company, the Hudson's Bay Company (HBC) which from 1670 to 1870 had a legal and economic monopoly on all land in the Rupert's Land territory (identical to the drainage basin of Hudson Bay), and later the Columbia District and the North-Western Territory (now British Columbia, the Yukon, the Northwest Territories, and Nunavut) were added to the HBC's lands, making it one of the largest private landowners in world history. In 1868 the Imperial Parliament passed the \"Rupert's Land Act\" that saw most of its land ownership transferred to the Dominion of Canada.\n\nAfter Canada acquired the HBC's land in 1870, it used the land as an economic tool to promote settlement and development. Under the Dominion Lands Act system of 1871, huge areas were given to the Canadian Pacific Railway to fund its transcontinental line, other areas were reserved for school boards to be sold to fund education, and the rest was distributed to settlers for agriculture. Settlers paid a $10 fee and agreed to make some improvements within a specified time for , commonly known as a quarter section, of land. This was at a time of extreme land shortage in many agricultural areas of Europe, and aided in the rapid settlement of Western Canada. In areas where ranching was preferred to field agriculture (e.g. southern Alberta), large areas were leased to cattle barons at a nominal rate, allowing the development of an industrial-scale beef export industry centred on the city of Calgary.\n\nAt the same time, major land reforms were underway in Prince Edward Island to end the practice of absentee landlordism, which locals felt exploited them. The Government of Canada agreed to provide the Island with an $800,000 fund to purchase the remaining absentee landlord's estates as part of negotiations that brought PEI into Confederation.\n\nLands given out in the early years of the Dominion Lands Act included rights to the subsoil, including all minerals, oil, or natural gas found below the property. Later grants (after circa 1900) did not include subsoil rights. As a result, in the leading petroleum producing province of Alberta,\n81% of the subsurface mineral rights are owned by the provincial Crown. The remaining 19% are owned by the federal Crown, individuals, or corporations.\n\nThe result of cheaply distributed land and land reforms has been that modern Canada's land holding pattern is very egalitarian and large-scale. The majority of the population owns some land, often in large quantities. This is distinct from the few large landed estates and masses of tenant farmers typical of Old World and Latin American countries that have not enacted land reforms, the communal and state ownership typical of Communist countries, or the small-holdings in those parts of Europe and Latin America where the estates were broken up.\n\nIn the last century, the trend in Canada has been for a smaller percentage of people to own land, as more urbanization has turned people into renters. Still Canada has one of the world's highest rates of home ownership, which actually increased during the economic boom of the mid 2000s. In 2008, of the 12.4 million households in Canada, more than 8.5 million, over two-thirds (68.4%) owned their home, the highest rate since 1971. Much of the recent increases were in the form of condominiums, however, which are not land ownership in the traditional sense. In 1981, less than 4% of owner households owned condominiums. By 2001, this proportion had more than doubled to 9%, and by 2006, it had reached 10.9%. Again, this reflects the impact of urbanization which has changed land holding patterns substantially.\n\nIn rural areas, the trend has been towards further farm consolidation. The number of farms has continually decreased since the end of the pioneering era in Western Canada (as recently as the 1930s in some regions, but more generally 1914), and at the same time, farm sizes have increased.\n\nThe other trend in rural Canada is for more urbanites to own summer homes, cottages, cabins, acreages, and hobby farms. This is especially apparent in areas that are situated within a convenient driving distance of major urban centres. Because Canada's major urban centres were historically founded on prime agricultural land, the end result is a permanent loss of agricultural land. This trend is further exacerbated by low-density residential subdivisions being constructed at the margins of cities, as well as the appearance of isolated rural residential \"satellite subdivisions\" specifically designed for complete car dependency.\n\n"}
{"id": "51768901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51768901", "title": "List of Cook Islanders", "text": "List of Cook Islanders\n\nThe following are islanders from the Cook Islands:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6985327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6985327", "title": "List of East Timor-related topics", "text": "List of East Timor-related topics\n\nThis is a list of topics related to East Timor. Those interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages by clicking on \"Related changes\" in the sidebar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee also Environmental laws fail to protect endangered fauna in East Timor\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16885554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16885554", "title": "List of Pixar films", "text": "List of Pixar films\n\nThis is a list of films from Pixar Animation Studios, an American CGI film production company based in Emeryville, California, United States. As of , Pixar Animation Studios has released 20 feature films, which were all released under the Walt Disney Pictures banner. The company produced its first feature-length film, \"Toy Story\", in 1995. Their second production, \"A Bug's Life\", was released in 1998, followed by their first sequel, \"Toy Story 2\", in 1999. Pixar Animation Studios had two releases in a single year twice: \"Inside Out\" and \"The Good Dinosaur\" in 2015 and \"Cars 3\" and \"Coco\" in 2017.\n\nTheir upcoming slate of films include \"Toy Story 4\" (2019), two untitled films set to be released in 2020, an untitled film set to be release in 2021, and another two untitled films set to be released in 2022.\n\nAfter the release of \"Toy Story 4\", five untitled projects are slated for March 6, 2020, June 19, 2020, June 18, 2021, March 18, 2022, and June 17, 2022. As of June 2016, both films set for 2020 are planned to be original, followed by another two original films that are still in early development. \n\nIn 2017, it was announced that Dan Scanlon is directing a suburban fantasy film, with Kori Rae producing, which takes place in a post-magical world without humans and populated with elves, trolls, and sprites, where unicorns are as common as rodents. The film will follow two elf brothers who lost their father when they were too young to remember him, and with the help of some magical remains left in the world, they embark on a quest which could give them a day to spend with their deceased father. The film was inspired by the death of Scanlon's father, who died when he and his brother were 1 and 3 years old respectively. Scanlon decided to write this story when they were played an audio clip of him as teenagers. It will begin production in January 2019. \n\nSince 2017, Brian Fee has been directing an original film for Pixar, as well as films from Mark Andrews, and Pete Docter. In 2018, it was revealed that Domee Shi was working on an animated feature based on an original idea.\n\nIn July 2013, Pixar Studios President Edwin Catmull said that the studio planned to release one original film each year, and a sequel every other year, as part of a strategy to release \"one and a half movies a year.\" On July 3, 2016, Pixar president Jim Morris revealed that after \"Toy Story 4\", there are no plans for further sequels, and right now Pixar is only developing original ideas with five films currently in the works.\n\nIn 2005, Pixar began collaborating with Disney and Warner Bros. on a live-action film adaptation of James Dalessandro's novel \"1906\", with Brad Bird attached to direct. It would have marked Pixar's first involvement in a live-action production. The film was abandoned by Disney and Pixar due to script problems and an estimated budget of $200 million, and it is now in limbo at Warner Bros. In June 2018, Bird mentioned the possibility of adapting the novel as a TV series, with the earthquake sequence as a feature film.\n\nA Pixar film titled \"Newt\" was announced in April 2008, with Pixar planning to release it in 2011, which was later bumped to 2012, but it had been finally cancelled by early 2010. John Lasseter noted that the film's proposed plot line was similar to another film, Blue Sky Studios' \"Rio\", which was released in 2011. In March 2014, in an interview, Pixar president Edwin Catmull stated that \"Newt\" was an idea that was not working in pre-production. When the project was passed to Pete Docter, the director of \"Up\", he pitched an idea that Pixar thought was better, and that concept became \"Inside Out\".\n\nIn 2010, Henry Selick formed a joint venture with Pixar called Cinderbiter Productions, which was to exclusively produce stop-motion films. Its first planned feature \"ShadeMaker\" was set for release in 2013, but was cancelled in 2012 due to creative differences. Selick was then given the option to shop the project (now titled \"The Shadow King\") to other studios.\n\nIn addition, when the now-defunct Circle 7 Animation was open, there were plans for sequels to \"Finding Nemo\" (which became \"Finding Dory\") and \"Monsters, Inc.\" (which became a prequel in the form of \"Monsters University\"), as well as a different version of \"Toy Story 3\".\n\n\"\" is a traditionally animated direct-to-video film produced by Disney Television Animation with an opening sequence created by Pixar. The film was released on August 8, 2000, and led to a television series, with Pixar creating the CGI portion of the opening theme.\n\nPixar assisted with the story development for the live-action Disney film \"The Jungle Book\", as well as providing suggestions for the film's end credits sequence. The film was released on April 15, 2016. Additional special thanks credit was given to Mark Andrews.\n\n\"Planes\" is a spin-off of the \"Cars\" franchise, produced by the now defunct Disneytoon Studios and co-written and executive produced by John Lasseter. The film was conceived from the short film \"Air Mater\", which introduces aspects of \"Planes\" and ends with a hint of the film. It was released on August 9, 2013. A sequel, \"\", was released on July 18, 2014. A third \"Planes\" film was announced in July 2017, with a planned release on April 12, 2019, but was subsequently removed from the release schedule on March 1, 2018. The film was eventually cancelled when Disneytoon Studios shut down on June 28, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "46214856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46214856", "title": "List of Tehran's Friday Prayer Imams", "text": "List of Tehran's Friday Prayer Imams\n\nThis list of Tehran's Friday Prayer Imams after 1979 Iranian Revolution contains both permanent and temporary ones. The current Imam is Supreme Leader of Iran Sayyid Ali Khamenei who appoints temporary Imams as well. Mohammad Emami Kashani, Ahmad Khatami, Kazem Seddiqi, Ali Movahedi-Kermani and Mohammad-Hassan Aboutorabi Fard are currently Tehran's temporary Imams.\n\n"}
{"id": "32445436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32445436", "title": "List of Tokyo Institute of Technology people", "text": "List of Tokyo Institute of Technology people\n\nThis is a list of notable graduates and faculty members of the Tokyo Institute of Technology in Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42160383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42160383", "title": "List of archaeological sites in Whitchurch–Stouffville", "text": "List of archaeological sites in Whitchurch–Stouffville\n\nThis is a list of archaeological sites in Whitchurch–Stouffville, Ontario, Canada: Both the Trent University Site Designation number and the Borden System archaeological designations are given.\n\n\"Late Ontario Iroquois (1400 AD - 1650 AD)\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18007820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18007820", "title": "List of countries by irrigated land area", "text": "List of countries by irrigated land area\n\nThis is a list of countries by irrigated land area based on \"The World Factbook\" of the Central Intelligence Agency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7964388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7964388", "title": "List of mobile network operators of the Middle East and Africa", "text": "List of mobile network operators of the Middle East and Africa\n\nThis is a list of mobile network operators of the Middle East and Africa.\n\nAt the end of 2014, the penetration rate was estimated at 109% over a population estimate of 39.5 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Algeria is Autorité de Régulation de la Poste et des Télécommunications (ARPT).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 63.7% over a population estimate of 13.3 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Angola is Instituto Angolano das Comunicações (INACOM).\n\nAt the end of 2011 the penetration rate was estimated at 133% over a population estimate of 1.27 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Bahrain is Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Bahrain هيئة تنظيم الاتصالات (TRA).\n\nIn December 2015, the penetration rate was estimated at 90.33% (in 2014, the population was estimated as 10.33 millions).\n\nThe telecom regulator in Benin is Autorité de Régulation des Communications Electroniques de la Poste (ARCEP).\n\nIn March 2015 the penetration rate was 167% over a population estimate of 2.05 millions.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Botswana is Botswana Communications Regulatory Authority (BOCRA).\n\nIn December 2011 the penetration rate was estimated at 36% over a population estimate of 16.7 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Burkina Faso is Autorité de Régulation des Communications Électroniques (ARCE).\n\nIn 2011 the penetration rate was estimated at 20% over a population estimate of 8 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Burundi is Agence de Régulation et de Contrôle des Télécommunications (ARCT).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 87.5% over a population estimate of 0.5 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Cabo Verde is Agência Nacional de Comunicações (ANAC).\n\nIn July 2011 the penetration rate was estimated at 43% over a population estimate of 19.7 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Cameroon is Agence de Régulation des Télécommunications (ART).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 17.2% over a population estimate of 4.9 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Central African Republic is Agence de régulation des télécommunications (ART).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 24.3% over a population estimate of 10.7 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Chad is Office Tchadien de Régulation des Télécommunications (OTRT).\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 20.8% over a population estimate of 0.8 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Comoros is Autorité Nationale de Régulation des TIC (ANRTIC).\n\nIn Q4 2015 the penetration rate was estimated at 95.7% over a population estimate of 4.6 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Congo is Agence de Régulation des postes et des Communications Electroniques (ARPCE).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 68.5% over a population estimate of 21.5 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Côte d'Ivoire is Autorité de Régulation des Télécommunications/TIC de Côte d'Ivoire (ARTCI).\n\nIn 2016 the penetration rate was estimated at 50% over a population estimate of 80 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Democratic Republic of the Congo is Agence de Régulation de la Poste et des Télécommunications du Congo (ARPTC).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 14.88% over a population estimate of 0.75 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Djibouti is Ministère de la Communication chargé des Postes et des Télécommunications (MCPT).\nEgypt has 99 million mobile users as of December 2017, government figures showed.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Egypt is National Telecom Regulatory Authority (NTRA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 74% over a population estimate of 0.6 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Equatorial Guinea is Órgano Regulador de las Telecomunicaciones Telecommunications Regulatory Agency (ORTEL).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 3.4% over a population estimate of 5.9 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Eritrea is Eritrean Communications Regulatory Authority (ECRA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 4.6% over a population estimate of 90.8 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Ethiopia is Ministry of Communication and Information Technology (MCIT).\n\nIn October 2009 the penetration rate was estimated at almost 100%.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Gabon is Autorité de Régulation des communications Electroniques et des Postes (ARCEP).\n\nIn 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 85.53% over a population estimate of 1.77 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Gambia is Public Utilities Regulatory Authority (PURA).\n\nIn December 2015 the penetration rate was estimated at 127% over a population estimate of 25.4 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Ghana is National Communications Authority (NCA).\n\nIn Q4 2015, the penetration rate was estimated at 99.1% over a population estimate of 10.8 millions.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Guinea is Autorité de Régulation des Postes et Télécommunications (ARPT).\n\nIn March 2015 the penetration rate was estimated at 67.0% over a population estimate of 1.75 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Guinea-Bissau is Autoridade Reguladora Nacional das Tecnologias de Informação e Comunicação da Guiné Bissau (ARN).\n\nIn December 2016 the penetration rate was estimated at 101.05% over a population estimate of 80 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Iran is Communications Regulatory Authority of the Iran سازمان تنظيم مقررات و ارتباطات رادیویی (CRA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 74.2% over a population estimate of 30.4 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Iraq is Communications and Media Commission هيئة الإعلام والإتصالات (CMC).\n\nIn 2014 the penetration rate was estimated at 125% over a population estimate of 10.27 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Israel is Ministry of Communications משרד התקשורת (MOC).\n\nIn March 2016 the penetration rate was estimated at 140% over a population estimate of 14.09 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Jordan is Telecommunications Regulatory Commission هيئة تنظيم قطاع الاتصالات (TRC).\n\nThe country has 40.8 million subscribers in total, or a 76.9% penetration rate. (Jan 2018)\n\nThe telecom regulator in Kenya is Communications Authority of Kenya (CAK).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 164.7% over a population estimate of 2.6 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Kuwait is Communication and Information Technology Regulatory Authority (CITRA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 65.9% over a population estimate of 4.1 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Lebanon is Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 45.77% over a population estimate of 1.9 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Lesotho is Lesotho Communications Authority (LCA).\n\nAt the end of 2013, the penetration rate was estimated at 68.3% over a population estimate of 3.8 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Liberia is Liberia Telecommunications Authority (LTA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 169.74% over a population estimate of 6.6 million.\n\nIn 2014 the penetration rate was estimated at 42% (9.7 miilions) over a population estimate of 23 millions.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Madagascar is Autorité de Régulation des Technologies de Communication (ARTEC).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 19.32% over a population estimate of 15.9 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Malawi is Malawi Communications Regulatory Authority (MACRA).\n\nThe country had 7.6 million subscribers in total (in March 2011), or a 50% penetration rate.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Mali is Autorité Malienne de Régulation des Télécommunications/TIC et des Postes (AMRTP).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 85.92% over a population estimate of 3.3 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Mauritania is Autorité de Régulation (ARE).\n\nThe country has 0.78 million subscribers in total, or a 60% penetration rate. (September 2007)\n\nThe telecom regulator in Mauritius is Information and Communication Technologies Authority of Mauritius (ICTA).\n\nThe country has 31.311 million subscribers in total, or a 113.57% penetration rate. (December 2011)\n\nThe telecom regulator in Morocco is Agence Nationale de Réglementation des Telecommunications (ANRT).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 27.19% over a population estimate of 22.95 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Mozambique is Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicações de Moçambique (INCM).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 85.53% over a population estimate of 2.15 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Namibia is Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia (CRAN).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 20.63% over a population estimate of 16.5 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator is Autorité de Régulation des Télécommunications et de la Poste (ARTP).\n\nIn September 2013 the penetration rate was estimated at 84% over a population estimate of 193.4 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Nigeria is Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 142.19% over a population estimate of 3 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Oman is Telecommunications Regulatory Authority هيئة تنظيم الاتصالات (TRA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 97.5% over a population estimate of 2.5 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Palestine is Palestinian Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (PTRA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 322.52% over a population estimate of 0.8 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Qatar is Communications Regulatory Authority (CRA).\nThis French overseas territory has ? million subscribers in total, or a 74.7% penetration rate. (2008)\n\nThe telecom regulator in La Réunion is Autorité de Régulation des Communications Electroniques et des Postes (ARCEP).\n\nIn December 2013 the penetration rate was estimated at 63.5% over a population estimate of 11.4 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Rwanda is Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency (RURA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 57.94% over a population estimate of 0.18 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in São Tomé and Príncipe is Autoridade Geral de Regulação (AGER).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 162.6% over a population estimate of 26.1 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Saudi Arabia is Communications and Information Technology Commission هيئة الاتصالات وتقنية المعلومات (CITC).\n\nAt the end of December 2015 the penetration rate was estimated at 110,74%, over a population estimate of 13,5 millions.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Senegal is Autorité de Régulation des Télécommunications et des Postes (ARTP).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 245% over a population estimate of 0.09 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Seychelles is Department of Information Communications Technology (ICT).\n\nThe country has 0.8 million subscribers in total, or a 13.23% penetration rate. (2007)\n\nThe telecom regulator in Sierra Leone is National Telecommunications Commission (NATCOM).\n\nAs of 2009, dial up internet services in Somalia were among the fastest developing in the region, with an annual landline growth rate of over 12.5%. Internet via satellite also had a steady growth rate of 10% to 15% per year.\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 99.6% over a population estimate of 49 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in South Africa is Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA).\n\nThe country has 1 million subscribers in total, or an 8% penetration rate.\n\nThe telecom regulator in South Sudan is Ministry of Telecommunication and Postal Services (MOTPS).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 42.3% over a population estimate of 45 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Sudan is National Telecommunication Corporation (NTC).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 13.73% over a population estimate of 10.37 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Swaziland is Swaziland Communications Commission (SCCom).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 46.6% over a population estimate of 22.5 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Syrian Arab Republic is Syrian Telecommunication Regulatory Authority (SyTRA).\n\nIn March 2015 the penetration rate was estimated at 65% over a population estimate of 51 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Tanzania is Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA).\n\nIn June 2014 the penetration rate was estimated at 60.7% over a population estimate of 7.2 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Togo is Autorité de Règlementation des secteurs de Postes et de Télécommunications (ART&P).\n\nThe country has 11.2 million subscribers in total, or a 105.8% penetration rate. (Sep 2010)\n\nThe telecom regulator in Tunisia is Instance Nationale des Télécommunications (INT).\n\nTurkey has 71.7 million subscribers in total, or a 94.34% penetration rate. (2015)\n\nThe telecom regulator in Turkey is Information and Communication Technologies Authority (BTK : Bilgi Teknolojileri ve Iletisim Kurumu).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 30.78% over a population estimate of 34.6 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Uganda is Uganda Communications Commission (UCC).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 230.6% over a population estimate of 5.15 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in United Arab Emirates is Telecommunications Regulatory Authority الهيئة العامة لتنظيم قطاع الاتصالات (TRA).\n\nIn September 2010 the penetration rate was estimated at 38.4% over a population estimate of 24.1 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Yemen is Public Telecommunication Corporation (PTC).\n\nIn December 2011 the penetration rate was estimated at 62% over a population estimate of 13.9 million.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Zambia is Zambia Information & Communications Technology Authority (ZICTA).\n\nIn December 2011 the penetration rate was estimated at 74.7% to 9.037 million subscribers.\n\nThe telecom regulator in Zimbabwe is Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (POTRAZ).\n\n"}
{"id": "12408497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12408497", "title": "List of palaces in Bangkok", "text": "List of palaces in Bangkok\n\nThis is a list of royal residences in Bangkok.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1590657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1590657", "title": "List of postcode districts in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of postcode districts in the United Kingdom\n\nThis is a list of postcode districts in the United Kingdom and Crown dependencies. A group of postcode districts with the same alphabetical prefix is called a postcode area. All, or part, of one or more postcode districts are grouped into post towns.\n\nUntil 1996, Royal Mail required counties to be included in addresses, except for 110 of the larger post towns. For these \"special post towns\", the former postal county is shown in brackets below. Since 1996, counties are not required for any address.\n\nThe code for a postcode district is also called an \"outward code\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2589126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2589126", "title": "Liu An", "text": "Liu An\n\nLiú Ān (, c. 179–122 BC) was a Han dynasty Chinese prince and an advisor to his nephew, Emperor Wu of Han (武帝). He is best known for editing the (139 BC) \"Huainanzi\" compendium of Daoist, Confucianist, Buddhist and Legalist teachings. Early texts represent Liu An in three ways: the \"author-editor of a respected philosophical symposium\", the \"bumbling rebel who took his life to avoid arrest\", and the successful Daoist adept who transformed into a \"xian\" and \"rose into the air to escape prosecution for trumped-up charges of treason and flew to eternal life.\"\n\nHe was the grandson of Liu Bang, the founding emperor of the Han Dynasty. After his father died, he became the Prince of Huainan, the lands south of the Huai River, at the age of 16.\n\nLiu An had two sons. The younger was Liu Qian (刘迁), who was born by his princess consort and thus became heir to Huainan, while the elder, Liu Buhai (刘不害), was born to a concubine. Liu An favoured Liu Qian over Liu Buhai and never viewed the latter as his son. Liu Qian never regarded Liu Buhai as his elder brother. According to Tui'en Ling (推恩令, \"Order to Expand Favours\"), Liu Buhai could become a marquess if Liu An carved a part of Huainan for him as his fief, but Liu An never did. Liu Jian (刘建), son of Liu Buhai, having realized that both he and his father had little chance to be a marquess, became so resentful that he accused Liu An and Liu Qian of a coup attempt. Finally, in a fate similar to his father, Liu An committed suicide in 122 BC after his plot was revealed.\n\nNoted for his literary ability, Liu An was reputed to be able to compose an elaborate work of prose between waking and finishing breakfast. In addition to composing literary pieces himself, Liu An also frequently invited other scholars as guests to his estate. Eight of these scholars in particular became known as the Eight Immortals of Huainan (淮南八仙).\n\nTogether with the Eight Immortals of Huainan and/or other members his literary circle, Liu An published a treatise in 139 BC. known as the \"Huainanzi\", translated as \"Book of the Master of Huainan\", or the \"Huainan Philosophers\". This book is considered one of the cornerstones of Taoist philosophy, along with the works of Laozi and Zhuangzi. Along with the earlier \"ShuJing\" (\"Classic of History\") of the 5th century BC (Warring States era), this book provided further concrete information on geography, including descriptions of the topography of China. His book was also concerned with mathematics and music, making use of the \"Pythagorean comma\" and listing the first known Chinese 12 tone musical tuning.\n\nOne of the two major ancient Chinese poetry collections was the \"Chu ci\", also known as \"The Songs of the South\" or \"The Songs of Chu\" (the other being the \"Shijing\"). The seminal poem of the collection is the \"Li Sao\", generally agreed to be by Qu Yuan. Liu An wrote an introduction to the \"Li Sao\" as well as the first known commentary. There is also reasonable evidence that Liu An was the first editor and anthologist of the original \"Chu ci\" collection. The poem \"Zhao yin shi\" (Summons for a Recluse\") is attributed to him and \"Yuan You\" (\"Far-off Journey\") shows many similarities to the work of the literary circle around Liu An.\n\nAccording to the legend, Liu An developed soy milk for his old, ill mother. She wanted to taste soybeans but couldn't chew, so Liu An ground the soybeans into milk, apparently upon her suggestion. No historical evidence supports the legend. In the Ming Dynasty reference work \"Bencao Gangmu\", author Li Shizhen describes the development of bean curd but does not mention a particular inventor. The attribution of the invention of tofu to Liu An was also made by another Ming dynasty writer, Li Yi (李翊). During the Song dynasty in the 10th century, Zhu Xi had already written of the method of Huainan in \"Song of Bean Curd\" (\"豆腐詩\"). It is also mentioned in a book which called bean curd \"Lai Ki\" in the Han dynasty, and the word appeared in an early Song dynasty writing. Other Chinese sources discredit the Liu An invention theory, however, and state that Liu An lived with a lot of vegetarian monks and the method was taught by them. The Chinese Daoists that he recruited used \"alchemical\" methods to make both soy milk and bean curd, perhaps as a medicine for eternal life. As the only powerful noble at that time, Liu An could order the (relative) mass-production of such items and spread them around, thus making him famous for soy milk and bean curd. Still, many place Liu An as the inventor of both bean curd and soy milk.\n\nA different tradition could be found in 《金華地方風俗志》 and 《中國風俗故事集》, which mention that soy milk and bean curd were made before the Han dynasty. These traditions date soy milk to the warring states period by the Yan general Yue Yi, These two books are rather recent and the quote in it was only a legend told to bean curd makers orally, without written record.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48339413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48339413", "title": "Memorial Park, Port of Spain", "text": "Memorial Park, Port of Spain\n\nMemorial Park is an urban park in upper Downtown, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. Memorial Park is a public city park in commemoration of the Trinidadian veterans that served in World War I and World War II. It is one of the most visited urban parks in the city.\n\nMemorial Park is located south of the Queens Park Savannah, west of Charlotte Street, north of Keate Street, and adjacent to the National Academy for the Performing Arts and the National Museum and Art Gallery.\n"}
{"id": "23256620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23256620", "title": "Motufala", "text": "Motufala\n\nMotufala is an islet of the Nukunonu island group of Tokelau.\n"}
{"id": "4928982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4928982", "title": "North Polar Basin (Mars)", "text": "North Polar Basin (Mars)\n\nThe North Polar Basin, more commonly known as the Borealis Basin, is a large basin in the northern hemisphere of Mars that covers 40% of the planet. Some scientists have postulated that the basin formed during the impact of a single, large body roughly 2% the mass of Mars, having a diameter of about 1,900 km (1,200 miles). However, the basin is not currently recognized as an impact basin by the IAU. The basin is one of the flattest areas in the Solar System, and has an elliptical shape. Chryse Planitia, the landing site of the Viking 1 lander, is a bay that opens into this basin.\n\nBecause the Borealis basin covers 40% of the surface of Mars, and much of the Northern Hemisphere, many currently recognized regions of Mars lie within it:\n\nOne possible explanation for the basin's low, flat and relatively crater-free topography is that the basin was formed by a single large impact. Two simulations of a possible impact sketched a profile for the collision: low velocity— per second—oblique angle and a diameter of . Topographical data from \"Mars Global Surveyor\" are consistent with the models and also suggest that the elliptical crater has axes of length and , centered on , though this has been partially obscured by later volcanic eruptions that created the Tharsis bulge along its rim. There is evidence for a secondary rim as well. This would make the North Polar Basin by far the largest impact crater in the Solar System, approximately four times the diameter of the next largest craters: Utopia Planitia, which is imbedded inside the North Polar Basin, the South Pole–Aitken basin on the Moon, and Hellas Planitia on Mars's southern hemisphere.\n\nThis impact would have resulted in significant crustal melting and a general increase in the rate of crustal formation for a period of 40 million years following the impact. Such a large impact would have disturbed the mantle, altering the normal convection currents and causing upwellings which further increase the amount of melting at the impact site. Overall, such an event would actually increase the rate of cooling of the Martian interior. The lack of magnetic anomalies observed in the northern hemisphere could be explained by such an impact, as the shock waves produced might have demagnetized the crust.\n\nThe origin of Mars' moons, Phobos and Deimos (pictured right), is unknown and remains controversial. One theory is that the moons are captured asteroids. However, the moons' near circular orbits and low inclination relative to the Martian equator are not in agreement with the capture hypothesis. The detection of minerals on Phobos similar to those in the Martian lithosphere, and the unusually low density and high porosity of Phobos, such that the moon would not be expected to remain aggregate if dynamically captured, suggest that the moons could have formed via accretion in Martian orbit, similar to how Earth's Moon formed.\n\nWhile estimates of the mass ejected by a large, Borealis-size impact vary, simulations suggest that a body approximately 0.02 Mars masses in size is capable of producing a sizable debris disk in Martian orbit, on the order of 5x10 kg, with a significant fraction of the material remaining close to Mars. This figure lies within the estimated mass range necessary to form the two moons, as other data suggests that only 1% of the mass of an accretion disk successfully forms moons. There are several other large impact basins on Mars that could have ejected enough debris to form the moons.\n\nAnalysis of Mars Global Surveyor data found mineral deposits similar to terminal moraines on Earth along the southern rim of the northern lowlands. Scientists have developed several theories to explain their presence, including: volcanic activity, glacial activity, and a series of Martian tsunamis. The arrangement of the deposits resembles deposits observed in recent tsunami events here on Earth, and other features of the deposits are inconsistent with the volcanic and glacial hypotheses. One recent investigation identified three impact craters in Acidalia Planitia as being the likely source of the hypothetical tsunamis, with the Lomonosov crater (pictured right) being the most likely candidate. Here, the tsunami generated by the impactor would have reached heights of 75 m (250 ft), and traveled 150 km (90 mi) past the southern rim. Dating techniques put the origin of the deposits sometime between the Late Hesperian and Early Amazonian periods, some 3 billion years ago, providing evidence to the presence of an ocean during this period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48219521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48219521", "title": "OKTMO", "text": "OKTMO\n\nRussian Classification of Territories of Municipal Formations (), or OKTMO (), is one of several Russian national registers. OKTMO's purpose is organization of information about structure of the municipal divisions of Russia.\n\nThe document assigns numeric codes to each municipal division of the country.\n\nOKTMO is used for statistical and tax purposes. It was adopted on December 14, 2005. It went into effect on January 1, 2014, replacing OKATO (\"Russian Classification on Objects of Administrative Division\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "622189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622189", "title": "Opisometer", "text": "Opisometer\n\nAn opisometer, also called a curvimeter, meilograph, or map measurer, is an instrument for measuring the lengths of arbitrary curved lines.\n\nA simple opisometer consists of a toothed wheel of known circumference on a handle. The wheel is placed in contact with the curved line to be measured and run along its length. By counting the number of teeth passing a mark on the handle while this is done, the length of the line can be ascertained:\n\nIn more sophisticated models, sometimes called a chartometer, the wheel is connected via gearing to a rotary dial from which the line length can be directly read.\n\nThe instrument is most commonly used to measure the lengths of roads, rivers and other line features on maps. Opisometers designed for this purpose provide scales reading the measured distance in kilometers and miles.\n\nEarly versions of this instrument were patented in 1873 by the English engineer Edward Russell Morris. The instruments he produced were initially described as a \"Patent Chartometer\" although later versions were sold under the curious name of \"Wealemefna\". Writing in 1881, Morris described how he had created a wholly original name in an attempt to outwit his imitators; he also refused to disclose the origin of the word.\n"}
{"id": "5146334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5146334", "title": "Over illumination", "text": "Over illumination\n\nOver illumination is the presence of lighting intensity higher than that which is appropriate for a specific activity. Over illumination was commonly ignored between 1950 and 1995, especially in office and retail environments. Since then, however, the interior design community has begun to reconsider this practice. Over illumination encompasses two separate concerns:\n\nOver illumination can be reduced by installing occupancy sensors, using natural sunlight whenever possible, turning off lights when leaving a room, or changing the type of lightbulb. Over illumination does not refer to snowblindness, where high exposure to ultraviolet light causes physical damage to the eye. Too little light, the opposite of over illumination, is associated with seasonal affective disorder.\n\nOver illumination can be caused by several factors:\n\nIn addition, there are ancillary reasons why over illumination might be decided to be necessary. For example, retail stores with large windows will sometimes stay illuminated overnight as a method of crime prevention.\n\nWhile some aspects of illumination are readily controllable, such as turning off lights when exiting a room, others are determined by the architecture and construction of the building. For example, skylights decrease the amount of artificial lighting that is required during the daytime, but most buildings do not have them installed. In addition, too few light switches can also cause issues. If an office building with large windows only has one switch per floor, then electric lights will illuminate the perimeter areas (with abundant natural light) to same level as the interior zones (which receive less sunlight).\n\nOver illumination has been linked to various negative health effects. While some effects might happen because the color spectrum of fluorescent lighting is significantly different from sunlight, other symptoms might be caused by light that is simply too intense. In particular, over illumination has been linked to headaches, fatigue, medically defined stress, anxiety, and decreases in sexual function.\n\nSome studies attribute migraine headaches to overly intense light, while others linked it with certain spectral distributions. In one survey bright light was the number two trigger (affecting 47% of respondents) for causing a migraine episode. \n\nFatigue is another common complaint from individuals exposed to over illumination, especially with fluorescent media. \n\nLikewise, over illumination can also cause stress and anxiety. In fact, natural light was preferred over purely artificial light by office workers from both eastern and western cultures. In addition, over illumination can cause medical stress and even aggravate other psychological disorders like agoraphobia. The replacement of natural light with artificial light also decreases task performance under certain conditions.\n\nHypertension effects of over illumination can lead to aggravation of cardiovascular disease and erectile dysfunction, which impacts are outcomes of long term cumulative exposure and associated systematic increases in blood pressure. The mechanism of this effect seems to be stress by related upregulation of adrenaline production akin to the fight-or-flight response. \n\nCircadian rhythm disruption is primarily caused by the wrong timing of light in reference to the circadian phase. It can also be affected by too much light, too little light, or incorrect spectral composition of light. This effect is driven by stimulus (or lack of stimulus) to photosensitive ganglion cells in the retina. The \"time of day\", the circadian phase, is signalled to the pineal gland, the body’s photometer, by the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Bright light in the evening or in the early morning shifts the phase of the production of melatonin (see phase response curve). An out-of-sync melatonin rhythm can worsen cardiac arrhythmias and increase oxidized lipids in the ischemic heart. Melatonin also reduces superoxide production and myeloperoxide (an enzyme in neutrophils which produces hypochlorous acid) during ischemia-reperfusion.\n\nUsing too much lighting will lead to higher electricity consumption, and therefore higher electricity costs, for the owner of the building. The solution to this issue is multi-faceted because there are several causes of too much light.\n\nFirst, over illumination occurs when the intensity of lighting is too high for a given activity. For example, an office building might have many sets of fluorescent lights to keep the area illuminated after sundown. During the daytime, however, large windows might allow for abundant amounts of natural sunlight to enter the office. Therefore, keeping all of the fluorescent lights illuminated during the daytime might cause unnecessary costs and energy consumption.\n\nLikewise, not switching off the lights when exiting a room will also cause higher energy consumption. Some people avoid frequently turning off CFL bulbs because they think that doing so will cause them to burn out prematurely. While this is true to a certain extent, the US Department of Energy recommends that 15 minutes is an appropriate time frame. If someone plans to leave the room for less than 15 minutes, then the light should be left on. If the room will be unoccupied for more than 15 minutes, then the light should be switched off. Another concern is that turning on a fluorescent bulb consumes large amounts of energy. While fluorescent bulbs do need more energy turn on, the amount of electricity consumed is equal to only a few seconds of normal operation.\n\nSometimes people do not turn off lights for other reasons, such as an office worker whose company actually pays for the electricity. In these cases building automation provides more control. These solutions provide centralized control of all lighting within a home or commercial building, allowing easy implementation of scheduling, occupancy control, daylight harvesting and more. Many systems also support demand response and will automatically dim or turn off lights to take advantage of DR incentives and cost savings. Many newer control systems are using wireless mesh open standards (such as ZigBee), which provides benefits including easier installation (no need to run control wires) and interoperability with other standards-based building control systems (e.g. security).\n\nArchitectural design can also provide ways of reducing energy usage. There are technological aspects of window design where window angles can be calculated to minimize interior glare and reduce interior over illumination, while at the same time reducing solar heat loading and subsequent demand for air conditioning as energy conservation techniques. For the Dakin Building in Brisbane, California the angled window projections effectively provide permanent sunscreens, obviating interior blinds or shades.\n\nIdeally, the design of a building would create multiple switches for the overhead lighting. Adjusting these settings would allow the optimal light intensity to be delivered, the most common version of this control being the \"three-level switch\", also called A/B switching. Much of the benefit of the excess illumination reduction comes from a better ratio of natural light to fluorescent light that can result from any of the above changes. Research has been conducted showing worker productivity gains in settings where each worker selects his or her own lighting level.\n\nLastly, the type of light bulbs that are installed has a significant effect on energy consumption. The efficiency of light sources vary greatly. Fluorescent lights produce several times as much light, for given power input, as incandescent lights do, and LEDs are continuing to improve beyond that. Shades vary in their absorption. Light colored ceilings, walls and other surfaces increase ambient light by reflecting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4324563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4324563", "title": "Panmure Island Provincial Park", "text": "Panmure Island Provincial Park\n\nPanmure Island Provincial Park is a provincial park in Prince Edward Island, Canada. It is located along a causeway connecting Prince Edward Island with Panmure Island.\n"}
{"id": "18328363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18328363", "title": "Pikyry Refuge", "text": "Pikyry Refuge\n\nPikyry is a biological reserve in the Alto Paraná Department of Paraguay, on the right bank of the Paraná river, and is one of the sites earmarked as 8 ecological reserve by the Itaipu dam, the largest dam in production in the world, located between Paraguay and Brazil. \nLocated in a natural bay, Pikyry is formed by the stream and its confluence with the river Paraná, and has an area of 1,110 hectares \n\nThe topography of the area is flat, inclining slightly downward towards the reservoir, artificially created for the Itaipu power plant in 1982. The soils are predominantly latosoles clay. The levels of organic matter are generally high as a result of the prevailing vegetation, and is slightly acidic. There are also - though very few - hydromorphic soils belonging to the group of gley - and humic planosoles. \n\nIt is part of an area inside the Gaza Protection Reservoir in which preliminary studies have demonstrated the need for the area to be integrated into the program since it possesses unique characteristics. Conservation is very important to preserve the area from Mbaracayu Biological Reserve until Tatí Yupí Refuge.\n\nThe climate is subtropical, with abundant and well distributed rainfall, ranging from 1,500 to 1,700 millimeters per year. The average annual temperature is 21 to 22 °C, having a marked difference in daytime and nighttime temperature in winter. The relative humidity is 70 to 80% and the prevailing winds are the northeast and southeast, encouraging and pleasant conditions of the place.\n\nThe vegetation, dominated by species such as \"Tabebuia\", \"Cedrela fissilis\", \"Patagonula American\" among others. Besides abundant species Lauraceae and undergrowth populated with species like Piperaceae, Bromeliaceae, Rubiaceae pteridophytes, Poaceae among others. There exists, 300 metres within the preserve's border, a variety of Arecaceae, \"Trithrinax brasiliensis\", the only recorded example in this part of Paraguay. \n\nThere are several species of mammals, birds and reptiles for example: capybara (\"Hydrochaeris hydrochaeris\"), monkey (\"Cebus apella\"), kuatí (\" Nasua nasua\"), among others.\n\nThe biological reserve of Pikyry is divided into distinct zones in order to handle them properly. \n\n\nThe reserve has a panoramic viewpoint, which can be seen most of the wooded area, as well as the vast body of water formed by the dam. The combined resources of vegetation, water and topography give it inestimable value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7295618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7295618", "title": "Protected areas of Chile", "text": "Protected areas of Chile\n\nThe protected areas of Chile are areas that have natural beauty or significant historical value protected by the government of Chile. These protected areas cover over , which is 19% of the territory of Chile. The National System of Protected Wild Areas (SNASPE by its Spanish acronym) is regulated by law #18,362 passed in 1984, and administered by the National Forest Corporation (CONAF).\n\nThere are three types of territories: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9992949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9992949", "title": "Rakovički Creek", "text": "Rakovički Creek\n\nThe Rakovički Creek ( / \"Rakovički potok\", \"Rakovica Creek\") is a short stream in north-central Serbia, an 8,5 kilometer-long right tributuary to the Topčiderka river. During its entire flow it runs through the southern outskirts of the urban section of Belgrade. It is one of the 40 rivers, streams and creeks that flow or used to flow through Belgrade, but as the majority of them is completely or partially conducted underground into the city sewage system, Rakovički potok avoided such faith. Even though it is short, the creek flows through a number of Belgrade's neighborhoods and gave its name to two urban neighborhoods of Belgrade, one municipality and a monastery.\n\nThe creek originates from the northern slopes of the Torlak hill, in the south-eastern part of the Belgrade's urban neighborhood of Kumodraž in the Voždovac municipality. It flows to the south, along the eastern side of the Torlak, passing between the neighborhoods of Jajinci and Selo Rakovica. In the \"Pašinac\" field it receives the \"Milošev potok\" from the left, turns north-west and enters the municipality of Rakovica. It flows next to the northern section of the neighborhood of Resnik, several smaller, new neighborhoods (Jelezovac, Sunčani Breg, Straževica) and the monastery of Rakovica, curving along the eastern and northern slopes of the 209 meter-high hill of Straževica. At the neighborhood of Kneževac, Rakovički potok receives the creek of \"Zmajevac\" and for the last 300 meters has been conducted underground, below the industrial complex of the \"21 Maj\" factory, emptying into the Topčiderka.\n\nThe creek got its name from the crayfish (\"Crayfish creek\"; Serbian: \"rak\", \"rakovica\") which used to live in the creek in the Middle Ages. In turn, the creek gave its name to the Belgrade's modern municipality of Rakovica, the neighborhoods of Rakovica (in the same municipality) and Selo Rakovica (in the municipality of Voždovac) and the monastery of Rakovica.\n\nThe central valley of the creek is a natural route for the eastern part of the \"Kružni put\", the main road connecting the southern outskirts of Belgrade and the projected route of the future Belgrade beltway. Belgrade-Požarevac railway also passes through the valley, parallel to the road. The area near the creek's mouth (Kneževac-Rakovica) is one of major industrial zones in Belgrade.\n\nIn May 1999, during the NATO bombing of Serbia, the electrical substation in Rakovica was hit and 80 tons of heating oil partially burned polluting the air, but a significant amount leaked into the Rakovički potok polluting Topčiderka and Sava rivers downstream.\n\n"}
{"id": "11781137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11781137", "title": "Sakoa", "text": "Sakoa\n\nSakoa is a region of southwestern Madagascar characterised by dry spiny forest and known particularly for its coal fields, the highest quality of which is the Sakoa field. There are a number of license holders on the field. The vast majority of licenses of commercial value are held by Madagascar Consolidated Mining, a subsidiary of Red Island Minerals, founded by Sam Malin, which is appraising and developing the resources of the field. Pan African Mining holds a considerable number of licenses on the periphery of the field. Other coal fields adjacent to the Sakoa region include the Ianapera, Imaloto, Sakamena and Vohibory fields.\n\nWWF Dry Forest Programme\n\n"}
{"id": "11177267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11177267", "title": "Sardeka", "text": "Sardeka\n\nSardeka (; also \"Xardeka\", \"Chardeka\", \"Chardeca\") is a Basque place name that points out mountain passes by analogy of form with a fork. This approach explains the pass name Hourquette in the Gascon Pyrenees.\n\nThe name \"sardeka\" is generally attributed to mounts (borrowed from a neighboring pass):\n"}
{"id": "11604083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11604083", "title": "Saudi Geographical Society", "text": "Saudi Geographical Society\n\nThe Saudi Geographical Society (, \"Aj-jam'aiya Aj-joġrafïya as-Saʻūdiyya\"), a learned society headquartered in King Saud University, Riyadh in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, is a non-for-profit organization for workers and experts in geography. Its recently elected chairman is Prof. Mohammad Sh. Makki.\n\nBy 2005, 251 members were involved in the Society within 5 Research Groups.\n\nThe first meeting for the General Congress took place on 22 December 1984. It was ratified by the Higher Education Council in Saudi Arabia under the category of research societies operating in national universities. Previously, many geographic associations were working within the Saudi universities. These associations merged to become the recent \"Society\" that joined the International Geographical Union.\n\nSGS is mainly working to encourage research and scientific consultations within geographical aspects related to the area of Arabian Peninsula and Saudi Arabia, in particular and to publish research and results. It is also dedicated to writing and translating references and publications to Arabic.\n\nThe Society publishes a bilingual (Arabic and English) biennial refereed and scientific Journal called \"The Arabian Journal of Geographical Information Systems\" (). \nAn annual bulletin is also published by the Society as \"The Newsletter of Saudi Geographical Society\" focusing more on internal issues and news about new publications, meetings and activities managed by the Society and its partners.\n\nSGS is also printing professional high-quality maps and managing a database of geographical information on its server.\n\n"}
{"id": "23129623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23129623", "title": "Senedd on television", "text": "Senedd on television\n\nThe Senedd houses the debating chamber and committee rooms for the National Assembly for Wales in Cardiff, Wales. Since the Senedd opened on 1 March 2006, there have been many occasions of the Senedd on television, the most notable being the regular screening of live proceedings from the National Assembly for Wales on S4C2 and also on internet television. \n\nCoverage of the S4C2 screenings are on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 9:00 am 6:00 pm when the Assembly is sitting. In addition, limited screens are shown on the BBC Two Wales programme \"am.pm\", including First Minister's Questions.\nInternet television screenings are shown on the National Assembly's own website codice_1, which screens approximately 35 hours of content each week in the English and Welsh languages. The service began 15 April 2008. Coverage of events in the Assembly can also be watched on the BBC Democracy Live website.\n\nThe Senedd building was involved in what is called the \"Sex and the Senedd\" controversy. An episode of \"Caerdydd\", the S4C Welsh language television programme set in Cardiff, which started when the broadcast of the episode shot a sex scene was filmed in a toilet room of the Senedd, and not in a television studio. The National Assembly for Wales Commission, who approved filming in the Neuadd area, the corridors of the Senedd and for one scene in the baby-changing room, were not made aware of the nature of the scene.\n\nThe \"Doctor Who\" episode \"The Lazarus Experiment\" was filmed in the Senedd, as was the Doctor Who spin-off programme \"Torchwood\", which used the Senedd in the episode \"Meat\", where Gwen Cooper and Rhys Williams sit on the steps of the Senedd building.\n\nIn March 2015 it emerged that the makers of \"Spectre\", the 24th James Bond film, had requested use of the Senedd's debating chamber for the filming of some scenes, but that this had been declined by Senedd officials, who said the debating chamber was \"not a drama studio\". Several Welsh politicians, including First Minister Carwyn Jones and Welsh Conservative Party leader Andrew R. T. Davies, cited the decision as a missed opportunity that would have boosted tourism for Wales.\n\n"}
{"id": "9620077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9620077", "title": "Sheet mulching", "text": "Sheet mulching\n\nIn permaculture, sheet mulching is an agricultural no-dig gardening technique that attempts to mimic natural forests' processes. When deployed properly and in combination with other permacultural principles, it can generate healthy, productive, and low maintenance ecosystems.\n\nA model for sheet mulching consists of the following steps:\n\n\n\nSheet mulch has important advantages relative to conventional methods:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27203507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27203507", "title": "Telephone numbers in Ceuta", "text": "Telephone numbers in Ceuta\n\n00 International Direct Dialing code\n\n"}
{"id": "28605051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28605051", "title": "Tourist attractions in Vienna", "text": "Tourist attractions in Vienna\n\nThe tourist attractions of Vienna concentrate in three distinct areas. The largest cluster, centred on Schönbrunn Palace, attracted around five million visitors in 2009, down from six million in 2008. Museums and exhibitions of Hofburg Palace accounted for nearly two million visitors in 2008, with a significant decline in 2009. The third, and the newest, cluster of modern art museums in Museumsquartier attracted less than one million visitors. Nearby duo of Kunsthistorisches and Naturhistorisches museums, located halfway between Museumsquartier and Hofburg, also reported around one million visitors. The Landstraße district, which lies south-east of the old city, is home to art exhibitions at the Belvedere Palace and the KunstHausWien.\n\nVienna stands out among other European tourist destinations for being a \"new old city\", a city in transition from an older \"picture city\" like Florence and Venice to being a global city like Paris and London. For six consecutive years, 2003–2008, tourism industry was on the rise, but in 2009 the global financial crisis caused a sharp decline, especially in long-distance tourism from Asia and North America. The new museums of modern art retained or even increased their attendance, but museums of classical art lost more than a third of their former ticket sales. According to preliminary data for the first half of 2010, Vienna is already past the bottom of the crisis and visitor numbers are rising again. In 2013, Vienna was ranked the world’s most livable city for the fifth consecutive year, playing host to 5.8 million tourists, a growth of over four percent as compared to 2012.\n\nIn 2003–2008 the Austrian tourism industry enjoyed a six-year streak of growth, with each year beating the previous record by an average 2.1%. Tourism generated 8.4% of Austrian gross domestic product (23.6 billion Euros) and provided 181 thousand jobs. The \"top ten\" of Vienna's tourist attractions in this period included the Schönbrunn Palace, Tiergarten Schönbrunn, the Albertina, the Wiener Riesenrad, the Hofburg Palace museums, the Belvedere, the Kunsthistorisches and Naturhistorisches museums, the KunstHausWien and the Donauturm observation deck.\n\nIn 2008, the effects of the unfolding global financial crisis on the economy were more than offset by a boost from the UEFA Euro 2008. The number of tourists reached an all-time high, although during the tournament itself museum attendance dropped by 60%, and theatres cancelled their shows altogether. The crisis hit the Austrian tourist industry in the first quarter of 2009, when international tourist arrivals dropped by 8.6%. Museum attendance suffered disproportionately higher losses. Ticket sales at Hofburg palace exhibitions dropped by 20%. Tickets sales at the Albertina, the most visited art collection in Vienna, dropped by more than a third, from 997 thousand in 2008 to 630 thousand in 2009. Its former third place in the list of Viennese attractions was taken over by the Wiener Riesenrad. The Schönbrunn Palace also recorded a drop in visitors, but its profits actually \"increased\" by a third. Tiergarten Schönbrunn reported a \"record drop\" of 70% in February 2009 (50% for the first quarter of 2009). Practically all museums and zoos increased ticket prices, by an average of 16.7%, the first price hike since the introduction of the Euro in 2002.\n\nAccording to the Vienna Tourist Board, in 2009 the city's hotels recorded 4.385 million visitors (2008: 4.593 million). 20% of the visitors were Austrians, 24% were Germans, 5% Italians and 5% Americans. The worst losses were recorded among tourists from Asia, North America and Eastern Europe. The state responded with promoting Austria in the neighbouring countries to compensate the losses in long-distance international tourism. In the end of 2009, the trend reversed with an increase in tourists from Japan, Italy, Spain, Greece and Russia. Recovery continued in the first half of 2010. Schönbrunn Palace recorded a 5% increase in ticket sales compared to the first half of 2009, Hofburg had a twelve per cent increase.\n\nAnnual rankings of tourist attractions are compiled and published by the Vienna Tourist Board (German: ). The underlying tickets sales statistics counts all visitors, tourists and Viennese natives, together. Freely accessible landmarks are omitted from the statistics altogether. The symbol of Vienna, St. Stephen's Cathedral, ranks only seventeenth: the number (218,000 visitors in 2009) represents sales of tickets to its underground crypts, but access to the cathedral itself is free.\n\nThe Schönbrunn Palace counts each entry by a holder of a multi-entry ticket as a separate visit. Thus, for example, in 2008 it sold 1.98 million tickets, but reported 2.581 million \"entries\". The Palmenhaus and the Wüstenhaus, tropical landscape exhibits in the historic greenhouses of Tiergarten Schönbrunn, are counted as separate tourist attractions. The three Hofburg exhibitions (the Imperial Apartments, Sisi Museum and the Imperial Silver collection) are usually visited as a package, and each combo ticket is counted as one visit.\n\nMuseums in Vienna not included in the 2009 top thirty ranking:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18315951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18315951", "title": "Visual odometry", "text": "Visual odometry\n\nIn robotics and computer vision, visual odometry is the process of determining the position and orientation of a robot by analyzing the associated camera images. It has been used in a wide variety of robotic applications, such as on the Mars Exploration Rovers.\n\nIn navigation, odometry is the use of data from the movement of actuators to estimate change in position over time through devices such as rotary encoders to measure wheel rotations. While useful for many wheeled or tracked vehicles, traditional odometry techniques cannot be applied to mobile robots with non-standard locomotion methods, such as legged robots. In addition, odometry universally suffers from precision problems, since wheels tend to slip and slide on the floor creating a non-uniform distance traveled as compared to the wheel rotations. The error is compounded when the vehicle operates on non-smooth surfaces. Odometry readings become increasingly unreliable as these errors accumulate and compound over time.\n\nVisual odometry is the process of determining equivalent odometry information using sequential camera images to estimate the distance traveled. Visual odometry allows for enhanced navigational accuracy in robots or vehicles using any type of locomotion on any surface.\n\nThere are various types of VO.\n\nDepend on the camera setup, VO can be categorized as Monocular VO (single camera), Stereo VO (two camera in stereo setup).\n\nTraditional VO's visual information is obtained by Feature Based Method, which extract image feature points and tracking them in the image sequence. Recent development in VO research provided an alternative, called Direct Method, which uses pixel intensity in the image sequence directly as visual input. There are also hybrid methods.\n\nIf an inertial measurement unit (IMU) is used within the VO system, it is commonly referred to as Visual Inertial Odometry (VIO).\n\nMost existing approaches to visual odometry are based on the following stages.\n\n\nAn alternative to feature-based methods is the \"direct\" or appearance-based visual odometry technique which minimizes an error directly in sensor space and subsequently avoids feature matching and extraction.\n\nAnother method, coined 'visiodometry' estimates the planar roto-translations between images using Phase correlation instead of extracting features.\n\nEgomotion is defined as the 3D motion of a camera within an environment. In the field of computer vision, egomotion refers to estimating a camera's motion relative to a rigid scene. An example of egomotion estimation would be estimating a car's moving position relative to lines on the road or street signs being observed from the car itself. The estimation of egomotion is important in autonomous robot navigation applications.\n\nThe goal of estimating the egomotion of a camera is to determine the 3D motion of that camera within the environment using a sequence of images taken by the camera. The process of estimating a camera's motion within an environment involves the use of visual odometry techniques on a sequence of images captured by the moving camera. This is typically done using feature detection to construct an optical flow from two image frames in a sequence generated from either single cameras or stereo cameras. Using stereo image pairs for each frame helps reduce error and provides additional depth and scale information.\n\nFeatures are detected in the first frame, and then matched in the second frame. This information is then used to make the optical flow field for the detected features in those two images. The optical flow field illustrates how features diverge from a single point, the \"focus of expansion\". The focus of expansion can be detected from the optical flow field, indicating the direction of the motion of the camera, and thus providing an estimate of the camera motion.\n\nThere are other methods of extracting egomotion information from images as well, including a method that avoids feature detection and optical flow fields and directly uses the image intensities.\n\n"}
