{"id": "14722189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14722189", "title": "AGEUS Award for Individual Contribution", "text": "AGEUS Award for Individual Contribution\n\nThe AGEUS Award for Individual Contribution began in 2006. It is presented annually during the meeting of the Annual Georgia European Union Summit, and goes to an individual who has shown exceptional success and dedication in fostering foreign economic development in the State of Georgia, USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "26351207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26351207", "title": "Administration (British football)", "text": "Administration (British football)\n\nIn the United Kingdom, football clubs sometimes choose to enter administration when they are unable to pay off outstanding debts. Under the Insolvency Act 1986, a business will face a winding-up order bringing them to court and if it is shown that a business cannot pay debts as they fall due or cannot repay outstanding debts then the company will be classified as insolvent. Administration puts accountants \"in charge of pretty much everything apart from coaching the players and picking the team\". For a football club in administration, the \"football creditors rule\" requires football-related debts such as wages owed to players and staff, and transfer fees owed to other clubs to be paid first.\n\nIn 2000, ITV Digital bought the broadcasting rights to Football League and League Cup matches in a three-year, £315m deal. In March 2002, the company went bankrupt owing the League £180 million which it said it \"cannot afford to pay\". As a result of this many Football League clubs had financial problems and entered administration.\n\nBefore the implementation of a points deduction it was perceived that clubs had \"manipulated and abused [administration] as a way of shedding debts then restructuring, and borrowing again once the hapless creditors had been fobbed off with their 8p in the pound\". In September 2003, it was proposed that clubs entering administration would be docked 10 points. A 'fit and proper persons' test was also introduced in an attempt to prevent fraudulent activities. If a person was previously director at a club which was in \"administration twice during a five-year period\" or at \"two different clubs that have each gone into administration in a five-year period\" then they would be prevented from becoming the controlling shareholder of a Football League club. A 'fit and proper persons' test was also introduced for directors of Premier League clubs. In November 2009, Stephen Vaughan, Sr. became the first director to fail the 'fit and proper persons' test.\n\nTo ease financial problems for clubs that had been relegated, \"parachute payments\" were introduced to give time to adapt to the financial gulf between divisions. The deductions of 10 points in the Football League and 9 points in the Premier League were ratified in 2004, with the rule in place from the start of the 2004–05 season. The League also adopted rules that prevented any side from being in administration for either two successive seasons or eighteen consecutive months. The reason for the deduction being a point less in the Premier League was that the teams play eight fewer fixtures than Football League clubs. The first club to incur this new penalty were League One side Wrexham F.C. who entered administration on 3 December 2004.\n\nLeeds United filed for administration with only a few days remaining in the 2006–07 season, which automatically triggered a 10-point penalty. This placed Leeds at the bottom of the table and relegated the club, but they were extremely likely to have been relegated anyway. By entering administration during the 2006–07 season, they hoped to avoid starting the 2007–08 season on −10 points. The following week, Boston United entered administration in the final minutes of a defeat to Wrexham which ensured they were relegated to the Football Conference, meaning they likewise avoided starting the following season on -10 points (though they would find themselves being double-relegated to the Conference North for unrelated reasons). The Football League saw both cases as clubs trying to exploit a loophole, and changed the rules. From 2007–08, any club entering administration after the fourth Thursday in March would have their 10-point deduction suspended until the following season. If the club is relegated the points will be deducted from their tally at the start of next season. If the club stays up the 10 points will be taken off their final total.\nOn 26 February 2010, Portsmouth became the first Premier League club to enter administration.\n\nIn a situation of insolvency, the \"football creditors rule\" means that debts to other clubs or players are prioritised and must be paid in full before the club is eligible to compete again in the league. The Enterprise Act 2002 made reforms to the insolvency act and, from 15 September 2003, the altered procedures for administration were implemented. Most notably it abolished the Crown's preferential right to recover unpaid taxes ahead of other creditors. As such, HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) is now often not paid in full (between 2003 and 2010, outstanding unpaid taxes to the HMRC amounted to £30 million). This legality of the football creditors rule was challenged in 2004 in \"Inland Revenue Commissioners v The Wimbledon Football Club Ltd\". However, it was found that \"full payment to football creditors (out of third party funds) ahead of preferential creditors did not infringe the provisions of section s4(4)(a) of the Act\" and \"differential treatment may be necessary to secure the continuation of the company's business and may be regarded as supportable\".\n\nIn 2011 HMRC brought another challenge to the football creditors rule in the High Court, this time on the basis that it breached fundamental principles of insolvency law, including the pari passu rule that all unsecured creditors should be paid on a proportionate basis. However, in May 2012 the court rejected the challenge as it found that the rule was not a deliberate evasion of insolvency law.\n\nFollowing the adoption of a points sanction in the English Football League, a similar rule was proposed for adoption by the Scottish Premier League (SPL) in December 2003. It was announced in January 2004 that SPL clubs going into administration in the 2004–05 season would be subject to a 10-point deduction and be prevented from signing new players. With Motherwell and Dundee already in administration at the time, it was decided that if \"they are not in the process of coming out of administration by 31 May\", the deduction would be applied at the start of the following season. Furthermore, the Scottish Football Association would not allow clubs in administration to play in European competition. Both Motherwell and Dundee met the required conditions to avoid the deduction of points. The 10 point penalty was subsequently applied to Gretna in the 2007–08 season and Rangers in 2011–12.\n\nAlthough the Scottish Football League (SFL) had no automatic deduction of points for clubs going into administration, it reserved the right to \"deduct championship points before or during a season and/or to impose a player registration embargo on any club\". This meant that its penalties for insolvency varied; Dundee were docked 25 points in the 2010–11 season because it was the second time they had entered administration in a relatively short period. The SFL also had the power to place a team in the bottom tier (Third Division) if there were any doubts that the club could fulfill their fixtures for the forthcoming season.\n\nThe administration and liquidation of The Rangers Football Club Plc prompted much discussion in Scotland about what sanctions (if any) are appropriate for an insolvent club. When Rangers entered administration in February 2012, the club was docked 10 points in the 2011–12 Scottish Premier League. The SPL clubs agreed to amend the penalty for administration to the greater of 10 points or one third of the club's tally in the previous season. Rangers attempted to agree a CVA with its creditors, but this offer was rejected by HMRC in June 2012. The business and assets of Rangers were instead sold to a new company. One of Rangers' assets was its membership of the SPL, but this could not be transferred without the approval of the other SPL clubs. Rangers' application for transfer was rejected by a 10–1 majority. The SPL attempted to negotiate a deal with the SFL whereby Rangers would enter the First Division (second tier). This was rejected by SFL clubs, who instead voted for Rangers to be granted associate membership of the SFL and a place in the Third Division (fourth tier).\n\nWhen the SPL and SFL merged to form the Scottish Professional Football League (SPFL) in 2013, the penalty for entering administration was standardised as 15 points. Hearts entered administration days before the leagues merged and were docked 15 points for the 2013–14 season under the old SPL rules, as they had earned 44 points in the 2012–13 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "36589100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36589100", "title": "Alfred Müller (entrepreneur)", "text": "Alfred Müller (entrepreneur)\n\nAlfred Müller (from 1938 Miler; 1888 – 1945) was Croatian entrepreneur and oldest son of Adolf Müller.\nMüller was born in Zagreb to a wealthy Jewish family, with younger brother Leo. He graduated from higher technical school in Vienna. Müller was married to Klara (née Hafner) with whom he had two children, son Alan and daughter Evelina. After his father death, Müller inherited \"Balkan\" cinema and part of residential-commercial complex in Varšavska and Masarykova Street. In 1938, because of the political situation and antisemitism caused by Nazi propaganda, Müller and his family converted to Catholicism and change their surname to Miler. In 1939, Müller sold the residential-commercial complex in Varšavska and Masarykova Street to a Topić family from Zagreb. That same year Müller and his family moved to France. During World War II, Müller and his wife where arrested by Gestapo in France with the help from Vichy Regime, while their daughter managed to save herself by hiding at friends. Müller son joined the French Resistance. In August 1944, Müller was deported to Dachau concentration camp, where in January 1945 he was killed. Müller family survived the Holocaust, his wife and daughter moved to United States after the war, and in 1949 his son returned and stayed in Zagreb where he still lives. With the independence of Croatia in 1991, Müller son sought the return of the property which was taken from his father by Ustaše and later the communist of SFR Yugoslavia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1284592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1284592", "title": "Allen Klein", "text": "Allen Klein\n\nAllen Klein (December 18, 1931 July 4, 2009) was an American businessman, music publisher, writers' representative and record label executive, most noted for his tough persona and aggressive negotiation tactics, many of which established higher industry standards for compensating recording artists. He founded ABKCO Music & Records Incorporated. Klein revolutionized the income potential of recording artists, who previously had been routinely victimized by onerous record company contracts. He first scored massive monetary and contractual windfalls for Buddy Knox and Jimmy Bowen, one-hit rockabillies of the late 1950s, then parlayed his early successes into a position managing Sam Cooke, and eventually managed the Beatles and the Rolling Stones simultaneously, along with many other artists, becoming one of the most powerful individuals in the music industry during his era.\n\nRather than offering financial advice and maximizing his clients's income, as a business manager normally would, Klein set up what he called \"buy/sell agreements\" where a company that Klein owned became an intermediary between his client and the record label, owning the rights to the music, manufacturing the records, selling them to the record label, and paying royalties and cash advances to the client. Although Klein greatly increased his clients's incomes, he also enriched himself, sometimes without his clients's knowledge. (The Rolling Stones's $1.25M advance from the Decca Records label in 1965, for one glaring example, was deposited into a company that Klein had established, and the fine print of the contract did not require Klein to release it for 20 years.) Klein's involvement with both the Beatles and Rolling Stones would lead to years of litigation and, specifically for the Rolling Stones, accusations from the group that Klein had withheld royalty payments, stolen the publishing rights to their songs, and neglected to pay their taxes for five years; this last had necessitated their French \"exile\" in 1971.\n\nAfter years of pursuit by the IRS, Klein was convicted of a misdemeanor charge of making a false statement on his 1972 tax return, for which he spent two months of 1980 in jail.\n\nKlein was born in Newark, New Jersey, the fourth child and only son of Jewish immigrants. His mother died of cancer very soon afterward, and Klein lived for a time with his grandparents, then subsequently in a Jewish orphanage, until his father remarried shortly before Klein's 10th birthday. In early work experience with a magazine and newspaper distribution company he showed an astounding facility with numbers, and learned alarming lessons about how profits were often systematically concealed from those who deserved them. Eventually he would realize that much the same situation existed in popular music, where labels routinely took much profit from the transitory careers of the artists who created the profit-generating music, and gave precious little back.\n\nKlein enlisted in the US Army in 1951 where he served as a clerk typist on Governors Island, New York. After military service, and with the assistance of the G.I. Bill, Klein majored in accounting at Upsala College, graduating in June 1957, and was hired by a Manhattan accounting firm, Joseph Fenton and Company. He was assigned to assist Joe Fenton in an audit of a music publishers' organization, the Harry Fox Agency, and several record companies, including Dot Records, Liberty Records, and Monarch Records. In an early setback to Klein's career, he was fired by Joseph Fenton and Company after four months because of chronic lateness. The company wrote to the State of New Jersey urging officials not to approve him as a Certified Public Accountant, and Klein chose not to take the examination. He briefly attended law school but soon dropped out.\n\nAided by his friendship with music publisher Don Kirshner, a fellow alumnus of Upsala College, Klein worked as an accountant for the next several years, assisted by Henry Newfield, a CPA who was a friend from school and the Army, and Marty Weinberg, another CPA, under the name Allen Klein and Company. Klein's clients included Ersel Hickey, Dimitri Tiomkin, Steve Lawrence, Eydie Gormé, Buddy Knox, Jimmy Bowen, Lloyd Price, Neil Sedaka, Bobby Darin, Bobby Vinton, Scepter Records, and the estate of Mike Todd. A key early contact was attorney Marty Machat, who frequently performed legal work for Klein over the years.\n\nIn June 1958 Klein married Betty Rosenblum, a Hunter College student seven years his junior. The couple had three children: Robin, Jody, and Beth.\n\nKlein acquired a reputation as a tough negotiator who could bring money to his clients. Two of them, rockabilly singers Knox and Bowen, were owed royalties by Roulette Records. Morris Levy, co-owner of Roulette, feared because of his organized crime connections, was known to pay artists as little as possible. Klein persuaded him to pay Knox and Bowen the royalties they were owed over a four-year period. Klein's success with the Knox and Bowen negotiation brought him new clients, and he and Levy became lifelong friends.\n\nIn 1963, Klein began a business partnership with Jocko Henderson, an urbane black disc jockey who had daily radio shows in both Philadelphia and New York. Henderson hosted lavish, profitable live rhythm and blues shows at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, and formed a partnership with Klein to begin doing the same in Philadelphia. As Henderson's partner, Klein was introduced to Sam Cooke, a preeminent talent who was equally adept at writing, producing, and performing his numerous hit records. Cooke had scored four top ten hits between 1957 and 1963, including his number one hit, \"You Send Me,\" among 33 records in the top 100 in that period. Although Cooke was clearly making his label, RCA Records, a great deal of money, label executives nonetheless repeatedly refused to honor his many requests for a review of his accounts. Klein forced the reluctant label to open its books for a thorough audit. Shortly afterward, RCA agreed to re-negotiate Cooke's contract.\n\nKlein secured for his client a genuinely groundbreaking deal. Klein created a holding company, Tracey Ltd., which was owned by Klein and named after one of Cooke's daughters. Tracey would manufacture Cooke's recordings and give exclusive rights to RCA to sell them for 30 years, after which the rights would revert to Tracey. Cooke would receive a cash advance of $100,000 per year for three years, followed by $75,000 for each of two option years. Instead of being paid the first $100,000 in cash, Cooke was paid in Tracey preferred stock, which would be taxed only when he sold it. While the deal benefited Cooke, it also greatly benefited Klein, who ended up owning the rights to all of Cooke's recordings made since the contract re-negotiation when Cooke was killed in 1964 and his widow sold Cooke's remaining rights to Klein.\n\nKlein's successful negotiations on behalf of Cooke brought him new clients, including Bobby Vinton and the Dave Clark Five. As with Cooke, Klein arranged for his clients to be paid over a period of time to reduce their tax liability. This also benefited Klein, who took advantage of the earning potential of money over time to \"make money from the money.\"\n\nIn 1964 Klein became the American business manager of Mickie Most, a former singer who was the savvy producer of hits for the Animals and for Herman's Hermits. Klein extended to Most a million-dollar promise, adding that if he failed to deliver in only one month, Most owed him nothing. Klein did deliver, through strategic re-negotiations of existing contracts and new producing opportunities for RCA, including offers for Most to produce for both Sam Cooke and Elvis Presley. Though the latter two prospects did not materialize, Most was suddenly one of the most talked-about and financially gratified figures in the English recording industry, and Klein was a step closer to eventual agreements with both the Beatles and the Rolling Stones.\n\nHis victories for Most won Klein access to several key English musicians. He eventually negotiated vastly improved deals for the Animals, Herman's Hermits, the Kinks, Lulu, Donovan, and Pete Townshend of the Who. However, Klein's help came at a price. To shelter his clients's money from Britain's high taxation rate on income earned abroad, Klein held the money for them at the Chemical Bank in New York City and paid it to them over periods of time of up to 20 years. Klein invested this money, which earned far more than what Klein was obligated to pay to his clients, and he kept the difference in the accounts, thereby maintaining control over the money.\n\nIn the spring of 1965 Andrew Loog Oldham, co-manager of the Rolling Stones, saw in Klein a terrific business adviser and ally, one who could help him win an incipient power struggle with Eric Easton, a music business veteran who was then the other half of the band's management team. Barely 21, Oldham was profoundly important in the development of the Stones' image, and in initiating the songwriting partnership of Keith Richards and Mick Jagger. After some management mishaps, blame for which fell at Easton's feet, and Jagger's ascension in the band's hierarchy following \"(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction\", the Stones' first number one record in America, Oldham sought and received Jagger's blessing to bring Klein aboard for re-negotiation of the group's contract with Decca Records. The label offered the band the opportunity to make $300,000 if their records continued to sell. Klein countered with, and quickly secured, an arrangement paying the Stones twice as much, in the form of an advance. He also forced London Records, Decca's American subsidiary, to sign a separate contract. It too was for $600,000. By the time Klein subsequently re-negotiated the deal one year later, Easton having been removed as co-manager, the Stones were guaranteed $2.6 million—more than the Beatles were making.\n\nWhen Klein examined the Stones' management contract with Easton and Oldham he found that the latter were receiving a disproportionate share of the group's income: not only did Easton and Oldham receive an 8 percent royalty on sales of the Stones' singles—the Stones themselves only received 6 percent—but they also received a 25 percent commission on the Stones' income. At Klein's insistence, Oldham increased the Stones' royalties to 7 percent and relinquished his commission. Klein offered the Stones a million-dollar minimum guarantee, paid over a 20-year period to reduce the Stones' tax liability, to let him become their music publisher, based on his faith in the Jagger-Richards songwriting team. He also arranged for a level of tour support and publicity far above anything the band had ever previously experienced for the Stones' 1965 American tour in support of the album \"December's Children\".\n\nJagger, who had studied at the London School of Economics, gradually became distrustful of Klein, particularly for the latter's ability to insert himself as a profit participant in the group's ever-growing financial picture. For example, in 1968 Klein very profitably bought out Oldham's share in the band for $750,000.\n\nThe split between Klein and the Stones led to years of litigation. In 1971 the Stones sued Klein over U.S. publishing rights. The suit was settled the following year, with the Stones receiving $1.2 million as a settlement of all American royalties earned up to that point (and was essentially the $1.25M advance that Decca had paid the Stones in 1965 that Klein had been withholding since August 1965). However, the Stones were unable to break their contract with Klein, who held an additional $2 million of the Stones' money to be paid over a 15-year period, ostensibly for tax purposes. Klein's company, ABKCO, continued to control the rights to publish the Stones' music and it was Klein who made a fortune off the band's all-time best-selling album, \"Hot Rocks 1964–1971\". In 1972 Klein alleged that some of the songs on their album \"Exile on Main Street\" had been composed while the Stones were still under contract with ABKCO. As a result, ABKCO acquired ownership of the disputed songs and was able to publish another Rolling Stones album, \"More Hot Rocks (Big Hits and Fazed Cookies)\". In 1974 negotiations over royalties led to a payment of $375,000 to the Stones and ABKCO's release of an additional Rolling Stones album, \"Metamorphosis\". In 1975 more lawsuits and negotiations resulted in a $1M payment to the Stones for non-payment by Klein of songwriting royalties, and the release of four Rolling Stones albums including \"Rock and Roll Circus\" and \"\". In 1984 Jagger and Richards sued to break their publishing agreement with ABKCO because of non-payment of royalties. The judge encouraged the two sides to reach a settlement.\n\nStarting in 1986, when the introduction of compact discs brought great profits to the music industry, relations began to improve between Klein and the Stones. In 2002 the Stones' album \"Forty Licks\" and the Licks Tour, celebrating the band's 40th anniversary, incorporated songs owned by ABKCO. The Stones agreed to a five-year payment plan suggested by Klein's son, Jody. In 2003 Klein negotiated with Steve Jobs to make ABKCO's Rolling Stones songs available on iTunes.\n\nIn February 1967, with an eye toward producing films and finding a way to invest his clients' money, Klein attempted to acquire Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. His hopes were blunted when Edgar Bronfman, Sr., heir to the Seagram fortune, instead took control of the firm. Klein then turned his attention to Cameo-Parkway Records, a Philadelphia-born, Los Angeles-based label which had enjoyed hits in the late 1950s and early 1960s, thanks to Chubby Checker, Bobby Rydell, Dee Dee Sharp and others, but which by 1967 was no longer prospering. It was one of the first publicly traded record companies, making it ideal for a financial maneuver Klein had in mind, known as a reverse acquisition. It was meant to take Allen Klein and Company public via its being acquired on paper by Cameo-Parkway. By July 1967, Klein and his associate Abbey Butler had acquired a controlling interest and filed to rename Cameo-Parkway as ABKCO, which is an acronym for \"The Allen and Betty Klein Company.\" Fueled by speculation, the stock price increased from $1.75 a share in July 1967 to a peak of 76⅜ in February 1968 before the SEC halted trading. The American Stock Exchange declined to reinstate the stock; instead, ABKCO continued to trade over the counter, and the stock price dropped to more realistic levels. In 1987, Klein made ABKCO a privately held company.\n\nIn 1964 Klein approached the Beatles' manager, Brian Epstein, with an offer for the Beatles to sign with RCA for $2 million but Epstein wasn't interested, saying that he was loyal to EMI. After Epstein died in August 1967, in January 1968 the group formed Apple Corps, which they announced in May 1968. They hoped it would provide the means for correcting Epstein's unfortunate business decisions, which had both limited their incomes and ensured high tax burdens. Although \"Hey Jude\", the Beatles' first Apple release, was an enormous success, the label itself was a money pit, with little accountability for how money was being spent.\n\nKlein contacted John Lennon after reading his press comment that the Beatles would be \"broke in six months\" if things continued as they were. On January 26, 1969, he met with Lennon, who retained Klein as his financial representative, and the next day met with the other Beatles. Paul McCartney preferred to be represented by Lee and John Eastman, the father and brother respectively of McCartney's girlfriend Linda, whom he married on March 12. Given a choice between Klein and the Eastmans, George Harrison and Ringo Starr preferred Klein. Following rancorous London meetings with both Eastmans, in April Klein was appointed as the Beatles' manager on an interim basis, with the Eastmans being appointed as their attorneys. Continued conflict between Klein and the Eastmans made this arrangement unworkable. The Eastmans were dismissed as the Beatles' attorneys, and on May 8 Klein was given a three-year contract as the business manager of the Beatles. McCartney refused to sign the contract but was out-voted by the other Beatles.\n\nOnce in charge of Apple, Klein fired a large number of the organization's employees, including Apple Records president Ron Kass, and replaced them with his own people. He closed Apple Electronics, which was headed by Alexis Mardas. Mardas resigned his directorship in May 1971. Klein's attempt to fire Neil Aspinall, a longtime confidant of the Beatles, was immediately thwarted by the band.<ref name=\"Perrone/Independent\"></ref>\n\nKlein was hit with his first crisis in managing the Beatles when Clive Epstein, brother of Brian Epstein and chief heir to NEMS, the management company his brother had founded, sold NEMS to Triumph, a British investment group managed by Leonard Richenberg. NEMS held a 25% stake in the Beatles' earnings, which Klein as well as the Beatles themselves desperately wanted to buy out. This led to tough negotiations with Triumph. Klein ultimately secured the Beatles' rights in their previous work for just four annual payments amounting to 5% of their earnings. However, in the lead-up to those negotiations Richenberg commissioned a hostile investigative report on Klein, which \"The Sunday Times\" ran under the headline \"The Toughest Wheeler-Dealer in the Pop Jungle\".\n\nAn even more important battle to secure the Beatles a financial situation commensurate with their worldwide popular acclaim was with Northern Songs Ltd., the publishing company. Northern Songs was managed by Dick James, whom Brian Epstein had rewarded with the Beatles' publishing rights in return for his helping them get placed on a TV show, \"Thank Your Lucky Stars\", early in their career. But James had constructed a contract that gave him an outsized share, and Epstein hadn't understood its implications. James knew that Klein would soon eliminate his perks, so he quickly offered to sell Northern Songs to ATV, run by entertainment mogul Lew Grade, rather than allow Lennon and McCartney an opportunity to buy back publishing rights to their own songs. Klein worked feverishly to pull together a consortium which would beat Grade's offer, but ultimately his efforts were derailed by infighting between McCartney and Lennon themselves.\n\nIn September 1969, while Klein was in the midst of renegotiating the Beatles' unsatisfactory recording agreements with EMI, Lennon told him of his plans to quit the group. It was agreed that this was the wrong time to either make or announce such a move. EMI was loath to re-negotiate, but their American subsidiary, Capitol Records, was so impressed by \"Abbey Road\" that they agreed to vastly improved royalty terms. McCartney joined his bandmates in endorsing the deal Klein had secured.\n\n\"Abbey Road\" proved to be the Beatles' last true collaboration, but Klein recognised an opportunity in the band's shelved January 1969 album and related documentary project, both titled \"Get Back\", to get another album release out of the splintered group while also fulfilling their obligation to provide one more film to United Artists, the studio that had previously released both \"A Hard Day's Night\" and \"Help!\" Phil Spector, the producer famous for his \"wall of sound\" recordings with artists such as the Ronettes and the Righteous Brothers, was eager to sign on as producer for the album, which was eventually titled \"Let It Be\". McCartney didn't approve of Spector, but the other Beatles did. This proved to be McCartney and Klein's last face-to-face meeting. However, Apple made $6 million in the first month following the May 1970 release of the record and the film.\n\nUnhappy with production decisions on the \"Let It Be\" album and the other Beatles' decision to hire Klein as their manager, McCartney went public with his plans to leave the Beatles in April 1970. He wanted to be released from his partnership with Lennon, Starr, and Harrison, who had in recent months proved a steady three-to-one majority against McCartney's proposals. The Eastmans convinced McCartney to file suit against his former bandmates for dissolution of the Beatles' partnership, which he did on December 31, 1970.\n\nThe judge ruled in McCartney's favor in March 1971. He decided that the combined financial affairs of the former Beatles should be placed in the care of a receiver until mutually acceptable terms for their break-up could be found. Klein thereby retained a position in the post-breakup solo careers of Harrison, Starr, and Lennon, but was no longer in charge of their affairs as a partnership.\n\nFor a time after the Beatles' contentious break-up, George Harrison was the most popular and successful of the former group. His November 1970 three-disc set, \"All Things Must Pass\", was a sales triumph, and produced hit singles in \"My Sweet Lord\" and \"What Is Life\". In the spring of 1971, Harrison learned from his friend and mentor, Ravi Shankar, about the desperate people of Bangladesh, who had been devastated both by military violence and a vicious cyclone. Harrison immediately set about organizing an event which would take place in Madison Square Garden within just five weeks—the Concert for Bangladesh—from which a live album could raise further funds for the Bangladeshi refugees. Klein hustled to get the invited artists, including Bob Dylan and Eric Clapton, to play for free while donating their shares of royalties to charity, and convinced Capitol Records to grant an unprecedented 50% royalty rate. Klein coproduced the filmed concert documentary, also called \"The Concert for Bangladesh\". The film and the album raised over $15 million. Klein had failed to register the shows as a UNICEF charity event, however; as a result, the proceeds were denied tax-exempt status in Britain and the US. The IRS attempted to tax the income, and $10 million of that amount was held back for years.\n\nBoth Harrison and John Lennon soon became disenchanted with Klein. By mid 1972, Harrison was appalled at the outcome of Klein's handling of the Bangladesh relief effort. Aside from the question of its charity status, unwelcome attention had been drawn to the project after an article published in \"New York\" magazine accused Klein of pocketing $1.14 on each copy of the live album (priced at $10)—allegations that raised suspicions among the three former Beatles with regard to his conduct in their business affairs. Lennon also felt betrayed by Klein's lack of support for his and Yoko Ono's increasingly politically focused work, which was typified by the couple's 1972 album \"Some Time in New York City\". In early 1973 Lennon, Harrison and Starr served notice that they would not be renewing Klein's management contract when it expired in March. Early the following month, Lennon told an interviewer: \"Let's say possibly Paul's suspicions were right … and the timing was right.\"\n\nKlein responded by suing the Beatles and Apple in New York, in order to recoup the loans he had made to his three former clients and other costs owing to ABKCO. They then sued him in the London courts, citing excessive commission fees, the mishandling of the Concert for Bangladesh, his misrepresentation of their individual financial standings, and his failure to ensure that the roster of artists at Apple Records prospered under his control. While the suits were ongoing, Klein made a play for the US portion of Harrison's publishing company, Harrisongs, in late 1974, without success. He also attempted to influence the outcome of Lennon's arrangement with music publisher Morris Levy regarding an alleged copyright infringement (of the Chuck Berry song \"You Can't Catch Me\") in Lennon's 1969 Beatles composition \"Come Together\". Lennon's song \"Steel and Glass\" from the 1974 album \"Walls and Bridges\" was his thinly veiled dig at Klein.\n\nKlein's 1973 lawsuit against the Beatles was settled out of court in January 1977, with Ono representing the former bandmates. Klein received a lump sum payment of approximately $5 million in lieu of future royalties and as repayment of the loans that ABKCO had made to the Beatles.\n\nHarrison had been sued for plagiarism in 1971 because of the alleged similarity of his song \"My Sweet Lord\" to \"He's So Fine\", which had been recorded by the Chiffons in 1963 and was owned by Bright Tunes Music. The case was still pending in 1976; as an alternate strategy to access Harrison's US publishing, Klein now purchased Bright Tunes and thus became the plaintiff in the lawsuit against Harrison. The judge ruled that Harrison had infringed on Bright Tunes' copyright, and the ruling was upheld on appeal. The judge initially assessed damages of $2,133,316, which Harrison would have to pay to Klein, then reduced the figure to $1,599,987, but finally ruled in 1981 that Klein still had a fiduciary responsibility to Harrison and should not be allowed to profit from his acquisition of Bright Tunes. Klein was ordered to hold \"He's So Fine\" in trust for Harrison provided that Harrison reimburse him the $587,000 that it had cost Klein to purchase the company.\n\nThe multi-Academy Award-winning 1955 film \"Marty\", an independently produced movie that undercut the Hollywood studio system, provided a business template which Allen Klein closely studied and later adapted to the recording industry. In the late 1950s Klein shared an office with press agent Bernie Kamber, who represented Burt Lancaster, one of \"Marty\"'s producers. Klein absorbed much from Kamber on how the producers had structured their business model, a paradigm whose strength derived from the fact that artists drove marketplace success, not film studios or record labels, and that intense preparation and canny negotiation could lavishly reward artists and their representatives. In 1961 Klein did accountancy work for an independent film, \"Force of Impulse\", where he formed lasting relationships that he would turn to for many film projects of his own. In 1962 Klein produced a film called \"Without Each Other\". He took it to the Cannes Film Festival and later claimed that it had won the \"Best American Picture Award\" there, though no such award actually existed. A distributor never materialized, but Klein's enthusiasm for film persisted.\n\nStarting in 1967 Klein produced four films in the Spaghetti Western genre, a lean-and-mean style of cowboy movie with taciturn heroes and explosive violence. Klein utilized actor Tony Anthony, whom he'd met on \"Force of Impulse\", in all four. Their films included a trilogy comprising \"A Stranger In Town\", \"The Stranger Returns\" (1967), and \"The Silent Stranger\" (shot in 1968 but not released until 1975 by United Artists). \"Blindman\" (1970) featured Ringo Starr as a Mexican bandit, Anthony as its lead, and Klein as an extra. The first two \"Stranger\" films were released by MGM the studio where Klein produced \"Mrs. Brown, You've Got a Lovely Daughter\" starring the popular Herman's Hermits. Klein, who had tried to purchase MGM in the mid 60s became involved with a lawsuit against MGM with each accusing the other of not performing on their contracts with each other.\n\nIn 1971 John Lennon directed Klein's attention to \"El Topo\", a surrealistic western by the Chilean director Alejandro Jodorowsky. Inspired by Lennon's enthusiasm, Klein bought the film and put it in American release. He then produced and financed Jodorowsky's next film, \"The Holy Mountain\", an allegorical journey with psychedelic overtones. Later the producer and the director's planned collaboration on a proposed film version of \"The Story of O\" was halted when Jodorowsky refused to make the film and to return substantial advance monies. Klein retaliated by withdrawing both \"El Topo\" and \"The Holy Mountain\" from distribution. In 2008 Jodorowsky released the films in Europe and was sued by Klein. After a face-to-face reconciliation between the two men Klein dropped his lawsuit and ABKCO released the films on video, paying Jodorowsky to remaster them.\n\nIn 1972 Klein co-produced \"The Concert for Bangladesh\", discussed above. Klein also produced the 1978 film \"The Greek Tycoon\", in which Anthony Quinn and Jacqueline Bisset played characters based on Aristotle Onassis and Jacqueline Kennedy. In the early 1980s Klein produced two Broadway plays. \"It Had to be You\", a romantic comedy starring Renée Taylor and Joseph Bologna, ran for barely a month. Next Klein produced \"The Man Who Had Three Arms\", written by Edward Albee. Although Albee had also written big successes in \"The Zoo Story\" and \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\", the play Klein produced had an even shorter run than his previous attempt.\n\nIn 1977, Klein and ABKCO's former head of promotion, Pete Bennett, were each charged with three felony counts of attempted income tax evasion for 1970, 1971, and 1972, and related misdemeanor counts of making false statement on their income tax returns for each of those years. The IRS, which had been investigating Klein for several years, claimed that Klein and Bennett had sold promotional copies of Beatles and post-Beatles albums—common practice in the music industry at the time—without declaring the sales on their tax returns. Klein was alleged to have received over $200,000. Bennett pleaded guilty to a single misdemeanor charge and became a witness against Klein. Klein testified that he had not instructed Bennett to sell promotional copies of albums and that although he'd received cash payments from Bennett the payments were a return of cash advances which Bennett had been given. Klein's first trial ended in a mistrial because the jury was deadlocked. At his second trial in 1979 the jury found Klein innocent of the felony charges and convicted him of a single misdemeanor charge of making false statements on his 1972 tax return. Klein was fined $5,000 and sentenced to two months in jail, which he served in July–September 1980.\n\nIn 1988 Klein began managing Phil Spector’s business affairs, including his publishing and recording assets. Although Spector had not been active as a producer for several years, his early work was still frequently broadcast and also licensed for film soundtracks. Spector’s publishing company, Mother Bertha Music, Inc, was controlled by Trio, a Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller company, which was in turn administered by Warner/Chappell Music. Warner/Chappell was making appropriate payments, but significant amounts were not being passed on to Spector. Klein's goal was to get Spector all the money owed him, and also to wrest a concession allowing Spector to co-administer the future licensing of his music. Klein and Spector brought suit in federal court. A courtroom win would secure the first goal, but not the second, so Klein advised a settlement strategy. It proved successful.\n\nOn their song \"Bitter Sweet Symphony\" the British alternative rock group the Verve sampled the Andrew Oldham Orchestra's version of the Rolling Stones song \"The Last Time,\" the rights to which were owned by ABKCO, and included it on their 1997 album \"Urban Hymns.\" The Verve had obtained the rights to sample the recording from Decca, but had failed to consider obtaining the necessary permission from ABKCO itself till the album was ready for release by EMI. Realizing that he had the advantage in negotiations, Klein forced Verve vocalist Richard Ashcroft to sell his rights as lyricist to ABKCO for $1, and ABKCO became the sole publisher of \"Bitter Sweet Symphony.\"\n\nThe song became a hit, popular for use at sporting events, and it was a big money-maker for ABKCO, which licensed its use for commercials advertising Nike shoes and Opel automobiles. In 1999, Mick Jagger and Keith Richards were nominated for a Grammy for Best Rock Song, even though \"Bitter Sweet Symphony\" actually bears little resemblance to the Rolling Stones's \"The Last Time.\"\n\nKlein was diagnosed with diabetes at age 40. He suffered several heart attacks over the years, of varying severity. In 2004, when ABKCO collected a Grammy Award for a Sam Cooke documentary, \"Legend\", Klein fell and broke bones in his foot, requiring surgery. He was subsequently diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. He died on July 4, 2009 in New York City. The cause of his death was respiratory failure. Yoko Ono and Sean Ono Lennon attended Klein's funeral. Andrew Loog Oldham testified at a subsequent memorial service that Klein had greatly magnified the success of the Rolling Stones.\n\nIn June 2015, American journalist Fred Goodman published a biography of Klein, \"Allen Klein: The Man Who Bailed Out the Beatles, Made the Stones, and Transformed Rock & Roll\".\n\nIn the 1978 television mockumentary \"The Rutles: All You Need is Cash\", which parodies the career of the Beatles, Allen Klein is portrayed as \"Ron Decline\", played by John Belushi. Introduced as \"the most feared promoter in the world\", Decline is so intimidating to his colleagues that they choose to throw themselves out of skyscraper windows rather than face him.\n\nIn his book \"You Never Give Me Your Money: The Battle for the Soul of the Beatles\", Peter Doggett says that Klein has come to be seen as one of the controversial \"intruders\" in the Beatles' story. Doggett writes:\n\nSuspected for their motives, hated for their disruptive power, they all arrived from America and were all regarded as suspects for the crime of breaking up the Beatles, on the assumption that without them the group would have continued happily in each other's company until their dying days. The first of these intruders was Yoko Ono; the second was Linda Eastman; and the third was Allen Klein.\n\nWith the possible exception of Alexis Mardas, who occupied a far less central role, nobody in the Beatles' milieu has received a more damning verdict from historians than Allen Klein. He was, one said, \"a tough little scorpion\"; for another, \"fast-talking, dirty-mouthed … sloppily dressed and grossly overweight\"; again, \"short and fat, beady-eyed and greasily pompadoured\". Beatles aide Alistair Taylor said, \"He had all the charm of a broken lavatory seat\" ... So consistent was the vilification that when biographer Philip Norman merely described Klein as \"a tubby little man\", it sounded like a compliment.\n\n… No such rehabilitation [as was later afforded Ono and Eastman] was available for Allen Klein, who entered the Beatles' story as a villain from central casting, and never escaped that role. Yet we are asked to believe that three of the four Beatles found this \"beady-eyed\" \"grossly overweight\" \"scorpion\" such an attractive figure that they were prepared to trust him with their futures. Clearly the Demon King didn't always excude the stench of sulphur.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46285691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46285691", "title": "Andrew Getty", "text": "Andrew Getty\n\nAndrew Rork Getty (July 1, 1967– March 31, 2015) was an American oil heir, businessman, film director and philanthropist.\n\nAndrew Rork Getty was born in 1967 in San Francisco, California. His father, Gordon Getty, is an heir and classical music composer. His mother, Ann Gilbert Getty, is a philanthropist. His paternal grandfather, J. Paul Getty, was the founder of the Getty Oil Company.\n\nGetty was educated at Town School for Boys in San Francisco and the Dunn School, a prep school in California. He then attended the University of Southern California and New York University.\n\nGetty was the President of A. Rork Investment Inc., an investment vehicle. He was the manager of Rork Productions, a production company.\n\nIn 2002, Getty started filming \"The Storyteller\" starring Frederick Koehler, Sean Patrick Flanery, Brianna Brown, Dina Meyer and others. The film was eventually released under the title \"The Evil Within\" in 2017, 15 years after the project started and two years after Getty's death.\n\nGetty made charitable contributions to the paleontology department of the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County.\n\nGetty resided in a historic mansion formerly owned by composer Miklós Rózsa on Montcalm Avenue in the Hollywood Hills. He was a recluse. Two weeks prior to his death, he filed a restraining order against his ex-girlfriend Lanessa DeJonge.\n\nGetty died at 47 on March 31, 2015. His body was found by his ex-girlfriend, Lanessa DeJonge. An ulcer was suspected in the intestinal bleeding that killed him. His personal assistant said Getty had complained of stomach pain in the two months beforehand. The Los Angeles county coroner ruled the death accidental, with methamphetamine use and heart disease as contributing factors.\n"}
{"id": "32060528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32060528", "title": "Aurélio Martins", "text": "Aurélio Martins\n\nAurélio Pires Quaresma Martins (born November 24, 1966) is a São Toméan journalist, businessman and politician, who until May 2018 was leader of the Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe/Social Democratic Party\n(MLSTP/PSD). \n\nMartins started his career as a journalist at São Tomé and Príncipe's National Radio (Rádio Nacional) between 1984 and 1985, and later worked at Angola's National Radio (RNA) from 1999 to 2007. He is the head of construction and security company Gibela Group and president of FAMA (Aurélio Martins' Foundation).\n\nMartins was elected to the National Assembly of São Tomé and Príncipe for the Lobata District in the 2010 legislative election and afterwards became president of the Humans Rights, Citizenship and Gender Commission in the National Assembly.\n\nHe was elected President of the MLSTP/PSD on the party's ordinary congress in January 2011.\n\nAurélio Martins was his party's candidate in the 2011 presidential election, but got only 4.06% of the votes and lost to former and MLSTP leader Manuel Pinto da Costa.\n\nHe was suspended from the party in mid-May 2018 due to backing the government's dismissal of three supreme court justices (incl. the court's president) who had ruled in favour of handing over the Rosema Brewery in Neves - controlled by the party's largest donor Antonio Monteiros and his brother Domingos Monteiros, who were both MPs for the party - to an Angolan businessman. He was replaced as party president with Jorge Bom Jesus at an extraordinary congress on 30 June.\n\nMartins was elected Figura do Ano (“São Toméan of the Year”) in 2007, 2008 and 2009.\n"}
{"id": "492486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492486", "title": "Bachem", "text": "Bachem\n\nBachem is a contract manufacturing organization headquartered in Bubendorf, Switzerland.\n\nBachem specializes in the manufacturing of peptides and complex organic molecules such as active pharmaceutical ingredients. In addition, biochemicals for research purposes and manufacturing processes are developed. The firm provides a number of products and services to the pharmaceutical and life science industries, including organic, fine and performance chemicals, custom manufacturing of biopharmaceuticals, chemical synthesis capabilities and new chemical entities, and services for the bioscience sector.\n\nIn 1971, Peter Grogg founded Bachem Feinchemikalien AG with two employees in Liestal near Basel with the focus on peptide synthesis. In 1977, Bachem moved with eight employees to nearby Bubendorf, and, in 1978, it manufactured, for the first time, peptides for use in medicine under cGMP guidelines. Between 1981 and 1991 Bachem tripled its production capacity and built an administration building, and in 1995, facilities were further expanded including the quality control department to a total of 168'000 sq. ft. (15'600 m2).\n\nExpansion into markets outside Europe began with the establishment of Bachem Bioscience, Inc. in Philadelphia, USA in 1987. To strengthen its presence in Europe, Bachem opened sales and marketing centers in Germany in 1988 and in France in 1993. In 1996 it acquired its largest competitor, Bachem, Inc., together with its subsidiaries in Germany and the United Kingdom. In June 1998, following a very successful IPO, Bachem's shares began to be publicly traded on the Swiss Stock Exchange. In 1999 and 2000, a new administration building and a further production facility were respectively opened at the Bubendorf site.\n\nWith the acquisition of the San Carlos, California based Peninsula Laboratories, Inc. and its affiliate Peninsula Laboratories Ltd., United Kingdom in December 1999, Bachem extended its strong position in therapeutically active peptides into immunology, a domain with strong future promise. In August 2000, Peninsula Laboratories Europe Ltd. and Bachem (UK) Ltd. merged to a single Bachem group affiliated company in the United Kingdom.\nThe acquisition of Sochinaz SA, a Swiss-based specialized manufacturer of active pharmaceutical ingredients in 2001, strengthened Bachem's expertise and once again expanded its manufacturing capabilities.\n\nReorganization of distribution was carried out in Germany and France as a result of the positive experiences gained with the realignment of the sales and marketing organization in the USA. As a result the subsidiary in France was closed at the end of 2002. The subsidiary in Germany was relocated from Heidelberg to Weil am Rhein, was renamed Bachem Distribution Services GmbH and is now responsible for all customers in the European Union.\nIn 2003, a holding structure was introduced to align the factual organization of the company with an appropriate legal structure and to support management structure adjustments, given by continued company growth requirements. In 2007, Bachem acquired the Clinalfa® brand for Bachem's ready-to-use clinical trial materials and related services. In 2010, Bachem commenced the partnership with Atheris laboratories offering the Melusine® range of research products for lead generation of new pharmaceutical candidates. In 2011, Bachem celebrated its 40th year as a producer of research ingredients and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nIn 2013, Bachem and GlyTech Inc. teamed up to offer glycosylated peptides in their product pipelines. Bachem and affiliate were conducting groundbreaking work on interferon beta-1a and to manufacture glycosylated somatostatin analogues by chemical synthesis.\n\nin 2015, Bachem acquired American Peptide Company, a mid-sized biotech establishment in Sunnyvale CA, not far from Bachem's US facility in Torrance, expanding the firm's GMP manufacturing and R&D capabilities for the US and international markets.\n\nBachem Holding AG consists of the following divisions:\n"}
{"id": "12035703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12035703", "title": "British Polish Chamber of Commerce", "text": "British Polish Chamber of Commerce\n\nIn June 1989, as Poland turned away from communism, a group of British-Polish students and graduates, Polish expats and British businessmen, established ‘Interes’, an organisation promoting business, trade and investment between Britain and Poland.\n\nUnder the Chairmanship of Leszek Jakubowski who took over from Barbara Stachowiak in 1993, Interes and the Polish Enterprise Centre were transformed into the British Polish Chamber of Commerce (BPCC), a non-profit organization incorporated in the UK in 1995 as a company limited by guarantee, with Juliusz Bogacki as its Chief Executive. In 1997 the BPCC moved to the Ognisko Polskie on Exhibition Road, where it continued to promote bilateral trade and investment between Britain and Poland, running conferences, workshops, trade missions, business clinics and its regular monthly Open Forum meetings, as well as publish ‘Eagle Eye’, the Chamber magazine.\n\nIn 1998/9 the British Polish Chamber of Commerce (BPCC) amalgamated with its sister organisation the British Chamber of Commerce in Poland (BCCP) to form one bilateral organisation.\n\nThe British Chamber of Commerce in Poland (BCCP) was established in 1992 as a non-profit organization incorporated in the UK as a company limited by guarantee. Its original role was to support British companies investing in the Polish market, shortly after the country's economic transformation. In 2001, the Chamber changed its name and its statute to become a bilateral chamber, supporting two-way trade and investment relations between the United Kingdom and Poland. \n\nThe Chamber's regular events in Poland include business mixers, conferences, seminars and workshops aimed at the international business community and at Polish exporters interested in the UK market. Shortly before Poland joined the EU on 1 May, 2004, the BPCC began holding regular events in London, looking at various aspects of doing business in Poland. After Poland's EU Accession, the BPCC began organising regular recruitment fairs, matching UK companies and employment agencies with Polish workers seeking to work in the UK. These have been held around Poland and in London. Since February 2007, the BPCC has been holding events in London, the Midlands, the North and Scotland aimed at Polish entrepreneurs that have set up businesses in the UK.\n\nSince July 2013, the Chamber has been engaged on a joint project with UK Trade and Investment as part of the UK Government's Overseas Business Network initiative to support UK exporters. A separate team was recruited to identify Polish importers, distributors, wholesalers and agents and match them with potential UK exporters. \n\nSince October 2014, the Chamber has mirrored the trade project to offer similar support to Polish exporters, identifying for them UK importers, distributors, wholesalers and agents, matched to a Sourcing From Poland service for UK importers.\n\nThe present Chief Executive Officer is Paweł Siwecki, who replaced Joe Tunney in December 2012. Martin Oxley was the chamber's CEO from 2005 to 2011, when he left the Chamber to head up the UKTI team at the British Embassy in Warsaw. Before Oxley became CEO, day-to-day running of the chamber was the responsibility of Executive Director Barbara Stachowiak-Kowalska MBE (from 1993 to 2005). \n\nAntoni F. Reczek, President of PwC Polska, replaced Alan Jarman as Chairman of the Board in June 2012.\n\nThe British Polish Chamber of Commerce has been awarded 'best British chamber in continental Europe' for four years in a row (2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005) by COBCOE, the Council of British Chambers of Commerce in Continental Europe. The BPCC was runner-up for this award in 2004 and 2003.\n\nFor three years in a row, the BPCC has been awarded the best British chamber for trade development (2014, 2015 and 2016), recognising its preeminent position as a UKTI/DIT Overseas Delivery Partner.\n\nSince August 2014, the BPCC has been an accredited chamber within the British Chambers of Commerce, the second British chamber outside the UK to win accreditation. In April 2015, the BPCC was also accredited by COBCOE.\n\n"}
{"id": "12482068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12482068", "title": "Business travel", "text": "Business travel\n\nBusiness travel is travel undertaken for work or business purposes, as opposed to other types of travel, such as for leisure purposes or regularly commuting between one's home and workplace.\n\nThe reasons to conduct business travel might include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7366023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7366023", "title": "Camille of Renesse-Breidbach", "text": "Camille of Renesse-Breidbach\n\nCamille Maximilien Frédéric, Count de Renesse-Breidbach (9 July 1836 in Brussels – 12 June 1904 in Nice) was a Belgian nobleman, entrepreneur and author.\n\nDe Renesse was born in 1836 at Brussels to an aristocratical family of Dutch descent. His parents were Maximilien C.J.G.R van Renesse Breidbach and Berthe Walburge Francoise van Gruben. He was a grandson of Clement Wenceslas van Renesse Breidbach (1774-1833), who had sold the ancestral Castle of Renesse to Leonard du Bus de Gisignies.\n\nCamille married Countess Malvina de Kerchhove de Deterghem on 10 November 1868, daughter of Count Charles-Constant de Kerchhove de Deterghem (1819-1882) and Eugénie de Limon (1824-1899). While dwelling in St. Moritz for recreation Count de Renesse got his vision to establish a giant Monte Carlo-like hotel resort with a grand hotel, baths and golf courses in the Engadin valley for the European aristocracy. After being rejected in Celerina, Sils and finally in St. Moritz due to the Badrutt family's huge power, Count de Renesse succeeded in purchasing some 140 hectares of land in Maloja, at the Lake of Sils.\n\nBetween 1882 and 1884 he put his vision to reality by letting build the \"Hôtel Kursaal de la Maloja\" (nowadays Maloja Palace). But since just a few days after the grand opening a cholera epidemic broke out in nearby Italy, Count de Renesse had to file for bankruptcy after six months. Furthermore, Countess Marvina died of a so-called \"fat heart\" in Basel in the same autumn. Nonetheless the hotel remained a lucrative location for Europe's rich people in the following decades. In 1891, Stanford University completed Encina Hall, a dormitory inspired by the Hôtel Kursaal de la Maloja's architecture.\n\nFor a long time a rumour has got abroad that Count de Renesse, being drunk, fell off his residence, the Belvedere tower above the hotel, into the Bergell valley; in fact he moved to Nice where he wrote some Christian books; there he died in 1904.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5580694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5580694", "title": "Commodate", "text": "Commodate\n\nIn civil law and Scots Law, a commodate (\"commodatum\") is a gratuitous loan; a loan, or free concession of anything moveable or immoveable, for a certain timeframe, on condition of restoring again the same individual after a certain time.\n\nIt is a kind of loan, or contract, with one difference: the commodate is \"gratis\", and does not transfer the property; the thing must be returned in essence, and without deterioration, so that things which consume by use, or time, cannot be objects of a commodate, but of a loan, because although they may be returned in kind, they cannot in identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "55238726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55238726", "title": "David Zeiger (industrialist)", "text": "David Zeiger (industrialist)\n\nDavid Zeiger (February 21, 1918 - May 10, 1981) Brazilian industrialist in the area of clothing and fashion.\n\nZeiger's family immigrated from Ukraine (the part of Ukraine that was then part of Poland) to Brazil in the early 1920s. David, with his siblings and mother, met with his father Shaja Zeiger, who had left Poland a year earlier. Shaja Zeiger was a tailor, and in a few years founded Goomtex, a factory for raincoats and overcoats. As a young man, David Zeiger worked with his father, and soon became the manager of the business. After his marriage, David Zeiger began to run Pullsport—a women's fashion factory—along with his wife Mila.\n\nDavid Zeiger also dedicated his energy to the areas of culture, philanthropy, and publicity.\n\nZeiger was born in Kovel, Poland, which is now part of Ukraine. Although raised and educated within the community of Jewish immigrants in the São Paulo neighborhood of Bom Retiro, the adolescent Zeiger already had a good command of Portuguese and a curiosity for Brazilian culture that led him to seek friendships outside the small European community where he lived.\n\nHe became a member of the Espéria club, and of the Tietê regatta club in which he participated as a rower in competitions. He joined the Portugália club, which published a newspaper with texts written by various members. His news stories and fiction began to be published under the guidance of the poet Mario Gallo. Zeiger finished his education at the São Paulo Technical School of Accounting.\n\nAfter World War II, Zeiger began his philanthropic activities. He helped raise funds and contributed his own resources to the newly created state of Israel.\n\nMost of his efforts were for social causes focused on Brazil. He assisted Carmem Prudente in the establishment of the Hospital do Câncer, and in the charitable campaigns that followed. \nHe was an initial donor of the Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein. He gave medical access to his employees through the network of SERMA clinics.\n\nZeiger believed in a Brazil based on the market economy of the United States—with a vast middle class, general access to education and medical services. During the Juscelino Kubitschek administration (1956 to 1961), he found a favorable climate for this view, which would help Brazil to move out of its agrarian economy to become an industrial giant. At that time Zeiger met congressman Antônio Sílvio Cunha Bueno, with whom he developed a long friendship, and through which he began to participate more actively in the political life of the country. Zeiger promoted Cunha Bueno within the Jewish community. The friendship with the Cunha Bueno family resulted in two homages: David Zeiger Public School, and David Zeiger Street, both in São Paulo.\n\nDuring the years of the \"Economic Miracle\" in the 1960s and 1970s, David Zeiger's business expanded quickly. His factory (Cia Pullsport of Malharia) grew to occupy two buildings of seven floors with 500 employees.\n\nIn 1967, Time Magazine published a cover story with the photo of President Costa e Silva. The subject was the surge of progress in the economy of Brazil. It quoted examples of leaders in various fields of activity, and presented Zeiger as an example of an industrialist. Zeiger had an unpretentious and communicative character, which he demonstrated equally with both his company employees and important personalities.\n\nZeiger participated from the beginning in the textile fairs established by Caio de Alcântara Machado (FENIT), the board of directors of the International Art Biennial of São Paulo , and sponsored a project aimed at integrating a cultural center with theaters and concert halls in the Ibirapuera Park. He was also an art collector. In his view, the city of São Paulo had the potential to become the most important metropolis in Latin America.\n"}
{"id": "5340722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5340722", "title": "DinoPark Tycoon", "text": "DinoPark Tycoon\n\nDinoPark Tycoon is an educational business simulation computer game released by MECC in 1993 for MS-DOS and MacOS. Players run a theme park which features dinosaurs as its main attraction. The goal of the game is to care for the dinosaurs while keeping the park clean, organized, and well maintained.\n\n\"DinoPark Tycoon\" was developed by Manley & Associates Inc. and published by MECC (later SoftKey). Two versions were released: a retail version and a special school version, which was released to public elementary schools across the United States and Canada. In addition to the retail software, the school version includes background information and classroom activities for teachers. It was not required by the schools' curricula, but was intended to be a fun way for the students to learn basic finance and management skills. Writer Larry Blasko of the Associated Press described the game as having realistic similarities to real-life business management, along with skills such as mathematical estimation and \"what if?\" analysis.\n\nThe objective in \"DinoPark Tycoon\" is the successful administration of a dinosaur park. Players start off with a $5,000 loan in the retail version, or a $20,000 loan in the school version. The money is used to pay for the land, dinosaurs, fencing, food and employees necessary to run the park and pay back the loan; failure to meet loan payments results in the park's foreclosure. Once the loan is paid off, players may expand the park and earn profits. If players are confused, an animated dinosaur appears and guides the players through the game.\n\nPlayers then visit supply stores to buy the necessary items for park maintenance. The food store provides meat for carnivores, plants for herbivores and seeds for planting. The general store provides fences for the dinosaur pens, with varying degrees of strength and price; concessions such as bathrooms, gift shops and parking lots; and advertising, which is bought per season. The employment office offers the personnel to run the park, and Dino City retails the dinosaurs for the exhibits.\n\nAs time passes, players face problems such as escaping dinosaurs, sick employees, and seasonal attendance declines. According to Atari, \"Keeping the staff paid and the dinos fed and healthy is an ongoing task that requires kids to analyze graphs and numbers and make decisions based on their assumptions. The trick is to scratch out enough profit to expand the park with capital improvements and bigger and better dinosaurs.\" After paying off the loan, players may choose to sell their park; if it has been successful, the player achieves an onscreen award and an entry on the top scores list.\n\n\"DinoPark Tycoon\" was released for the 3DO Interactive Multiplayer home video game console in early 1994. It contains minor changes to gameplay and graphics.\n"}
{"id": "5703113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5703113", "title": "Diplôme d'Ingénieur", "text": "Diplôme d'Ingénieur\n\nThe Diplôme d'Ingénieur (, often abbreviated as \"Dipl. Ing.\") is a postgraduate degree in engineering \"(see Engineer's Degrees in Europe)\" awarded by the French Grandes Écoles in engineering. It is generally obtained after five to seven years of studies after the French Baccalauréat.\n\nEach holder of the diplôme d'ingénieur is also conferred the title of \"Ingénieur diplômé\" (graduate engineer). This is distinguished from the term \"'ingénieur\"' (engineer) which is non-regulated and can be loosely used as a generic title based on one's professional position or nature of work rather than formal academic qualifications. \n\nDiplôme d'ingénieur graduates from reputable institutions often access the French job market with a significant advantage compared to PhDs. However, this is not always true for all industries, and roles that require high technical expertise (especially research in specific area) will favor a specialized master's or PhD qualification. \n\nThe title \"Ingénieur diplômé\" is a strictly regulated and protected by the French state. Any institution issuing the diplôme d'ingénieur must be accredited by the Commission des titres d'ingénieur (within the French Ministry of Higher Education and Research) which is the official administrative body responsible for evaluating higher education institutions to train professional engineers in France. Anyone found to be misusing the title of \"Ingénieur diplômé\" is liable to a €15,000 fine and a one-year sentence in prison.\n\nSince the signing of the Bologna Process in 1999, the European Master's Degree is also conferred by the state to the holder of a diplôme d'ingénieur, but the converse is not true. This is because the diplôme d'ingénieur is recognised to include, but significantly surpass, a Bologna Process Master's Degree. \n\nThe diplôme d'ingénieur is also recognized in the United States by the AACRAO since 2013 as \"Master of Science in Engineering\".\n\nFrance is particular in that only accredited Grandes Écoles in engineering are certified to issue the diplôme d'ingénieur, which is differentiated from bachelor's and master's degrees in engineering issued by public universities (Universités).\n\nUniversities in France are comprehensive institutions composed of several faculties covering various fields (natural sciences, engineering, law, economics, medicine, humanities, etc) with a large student body. By law, admission to a French university is non-competitive and open to anyone with a high school diploma. On the other hand, Grandes Écoles in engineering are much smaller in size and recruit their students with very selective processes (typically a few hundred students per year per institution, and a few thousand students per year country-wide), with the minimum qualification being 2 years of post-baccalureate studies in scientific classes préparatoires, three to four years University studies (Bachelors or Masters), or an otherwise equivalent training for foreign students, in order to be admitted to the engineer training in one of the Grandes Écoles.\n\nThe engineer training leading to the diplôme d'ingénieur may vary significantly among the Grandes Écoles in terms of curriculum structure, despite the same accreditation from CTI. In general, the most prestigious (therefore highly selective) Grandes Écoles tend to offer a multidisciplinary curriculum for their flagship engineer program, exposing students to various fields of study with each courses taught at a graduate level. The multidisciplinary engineer program in the so-called 'generalist' Grandes Écoles is usually considered to be more competitive and intensive than specialized master's degree programs. However, this is not always the case, and there are a number of well-established Grandes Écoles that focus on a specialized curriculum for their engineer program.\n\nStudent engineers in Grandes Écoles are educated in close cooperation with the various industries through academic-industry partnerships, which introduce graduates to professional life while giving them a solid grounding in their discipline. As many graduates will advance to positions leading future projects and teams, courses related to management and professional training are also included in the curriculum.\n\nIn addition to the core curriculum in engineering and science, the French engineer training often includes, and is not limited to:\n\nMore than 90 percent of the French engineer programs require at least one internship (typically in a business setting) at some point in the curriculum.\n\nMost schools arrange three types of internships that train the students with progressive responsibilities, initially as observers and increasingly as actors, in order to gain a comprehensive understanding and perspective of all levels of responsibility and roles within the industry. One can distinguish “worker” (blue-collar) internships, “senior technician” internships, and “graduate” internships where the students perform the same type of work they will do as graduate engineers. Internships are graded and constitute part of the academic degree requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "24528241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24528241", "title": "Forum for International Trade Training", "text": "Forum for International Trade Training\n\nThe Forum for International Trade Training (FITT) is \"a not-for-profit organization that offers international business training, resources and professional certification to individuals and businesses.\"\n\nFITT offers the FITTskills international trade training program, a series of 8 courses for global business professionals can that can be taken either online or in a classroom setting through educational partners. FITTskills students receive the FITT Certificate in International Trade after completing four of the courses, and the FITT Diploma in International Trade after completing all eight courses.\n\nThe organization also offers the Certified International Trade Professional designation, also trademarked as the FITT International Business Professional designation in the U.S. and Europe. It is often referred to as the CITP|FIBP designation. In French, it is referred to as the Professionnel accrédité en commerce international (PACI|FPAI) designation.\n\nFITT's strategic partners are Export Development Canada (EDC), Global Affairs Canada (GAC) and the World Trade Centers Association.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Dieter Hollweck, began the planning towards a new organization. FITT was then incorporated in 1992 as part of Canada’s sector council initiative.\n\nFITT first launched its FITTskills training program in 1993, which is now in its sixth edition, with the seventh edition being launched in early 2017. In 1996, it also launched the Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition (PLAR) process to allow business professionals to use their previous work and educational experience to earn FITTskills credits. FITTskills courses were first offered online in 1999, which continues today.\n\nIn 2001, FITT began to accredit academic institutions and organizations already offering international business courses to offer FITTskills courses. There are currently over 43 educational partners in Canada, China, Colombia, Malaysia, Romania and the UK, offering FITTskills courses in a classroom setting.\n\nFITT's CITP designation was first offered in 1998, and the competency requirements were revised in 2006 and again in 2016. Since 2009, it has also been trademarked as the FIBP designation in the U.S. and Europe.\n\nFITT has also awarded honorary CITP|FIBP designations to several notable figures in international trade, including former Canadian Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister John Manley, Canadian Chamber of Commerce CEO Perrin Beatty, Governor of the Bank of Canada Stephen Poloz, and former Canadian Minister of International Trade Stockwell Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "21442245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21442245", "title": "Fossil fuel exporters", "text": "Fossil fuel exporters\n\nPetroleum, natural gas, and coal are exported from various source countries to countries reliant on these fossil fuels.\n\nSaudi Arabia is the largest exporter of crude petroleum in the world.\n\nThis is a list of countries by crude oil exports mostly based on The World Factbook:\n\nThis is a list of countries by natural gas exports mostly based on The World Factbook:\n\nThis is a list of countries by coal exports mostly based on US Energy Information Administration:\n"}
{"id": "772969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=772969", "title": "Gateway Sports and Entertainment Complex", "text": "Gateway Sports and Entertainment Complex\n\nThe Gateway Sports and Entertainment Complex is an entertainment complex located in downtown Cleveland, Ohio. It opened in 1994 and is owned by the city of Cleveland and Cuyahoga County and is managed by the Gateway Economic Development Corporation, a non-profit group with board members who are appointed by county and city leaders.\n\nThe complex mainly consists of Progressive Field, a 35,051-seat baseball park that serves as home of the Cleveland Indians of Major League Baseball, and Quicken Loans Arena, a 19,432-seat arena primarily the home of the Cleveland Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association. In addition, the complex includes a transitional space known as Gateway Plaza and the Gateway East parking garage.\n\nGateway is roughly bounded by East 9th Street to the east, Huron Road to the north, Ontario Street to the west, and Carnegie Avenue to the south, and forms the basis of the larger Gateway District of downtown Cleveland.\n\nThe two facilities are connected to Tower City Center and the RTA Rapid Transit system via an underground walkway.\n\nProgressive Field was completed first, opening on April 4, 1994, as Jacobs Field. It cost approximately $175 million to build, of which $91 million, or 52%, came from Indians owner Richard Jacobs. The remaining $84 million, or 48%, was from a 15-year sin tax. It was designed by HOK Sport (now known as Populous), a division of Hellmuth, Obata and Kassabaum. HOK designed it as a retro-modern ballpark, similar to their just-completed Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, with asymmetrical fences of varying heights, a smaller upper deck, and stepped tiers. The ballpark was situated in a way that would showcase Cleveland's downtown skyline.\n\nQuicken Loans Arena, originally named Gund Arena, has dimensions of long by wide by high (). It was designed by Ellerbe Becket Sports & Venue and Robert P. Madison International Inc., a local architectural firm. Similar to the ballpark's downtown views, the arena has a by bay window that faces southeast and shows off the city's industrial Flats. The construction and engineering were completed by an integrated team from Ellerbe Becket. The underground service area can accommodate 26 tour buses. It was built for approximately $152 million and opened on October 17, 1994.\n\nGateway Plaza is multifunctional open space situated between Quicken Loans Arena to the north, Ontario Street to the west, Gateway East parking garage to the west, and Progressive Field to the south. However, it is technically bordered by Bolivar Road, Ontario Street, East 6th Street, and Larry Doby Way. It is primarily concrete roadway, but it does features decorative industrial art pieces and limited green space. On game days, it frequently hosts on-location radio and television broadcasts, along with satellite trucks for TV broadcast uplinks, as well as other game-related events. Some events for the 1997 MLB All-Star Game Fan Fest were held in Gateway Plaza.\n\nThe complex was built with two parking garages, which can hold a combined 3,300 cars. On the north end of the complex is the Jack Parking Garage, previously the Gateway North garage. It is a rectangular-shaped structure, with its main entrance on Ontario Street and another two on High Street. Originally, a third floor enclosed walkway above Huron Road connected its southeast corner to The Q, but this was removed in 2018 as part of a major renovation project on the arena. A second enclosed walkway was built in 2013 on the northwest corner of the garage that connects to Jack Cleveland Casino. The city of Cleveland built a downtown bike station in this garage in 2011. That same year, the facility was sold to Rock Caesar's Ohio and renovated to include a valet service and to serve as the main parking area for the casino. The garage is still available for events at Gateway, though is managed by the casino. \n\nIn between The Q and Progressive Field is the Gateway East garage, an L-shaped structure with two elevated walkways. A third floor enclosed walkway above East 6th Street connects on its western side to The Q, while an open walkway on the south side of the garage connects to the ballpark above Larry Doby Way. Originally there was an additional walkway over Larry Doby Way to the ballpark, but it was removed in 2014 during renovations to Progressive Field. The Gateway East Garage main entrance is on Huron Road, with a season-ticket holders entrance at East 6th and Bolivar and another at East 7th and Bolivar. It is managed by Standard Parking.\n\nThe Gateway complex had its genesis in the early 1980s. The city of Cleveland had longed to bring the Cavaliers back to Cleveland since the team left for the Richfield Coliseum in 1974. Moreover, the Browns and Indians were housed in Cleveland Stadium, which was costing the city money in a time when it could ill-afford it. A major-league caliber sporting facility hadn't been built in Cleveland itself since the now-demolished Cleveland Arena opened in 1937.\n\nA multipurpose dome would be the new home to the Browns and Indians, and would attract the Cavaliers back to Cleveland, according to the original proposal by County Commissioner Vincent Campanella. The concept was modeled after the Pontiac Silverdome, then home to the Detroit Lions. Browns owner Art Modell backed the domed stadium idea, as did Ohio Governor Dick Celeste, however, he did not like funding the project with property taxes. On May 8, 1984, a ballot initiative for the $150 million dome stadium went down in defeat by a 2-1 margin. In 1985, another dome called Hexatron, a six-sided structure with a retractable roof designed by local architect Robert Corna, was proposed but never left the drafting table. The proposed funding for Hexatron would be a sin tax on alcohol and cigarettes in Cuyahoga County, an idea floated by a young member of the Ohio House of Representatives named Jeff Jacobs, the son of the future Indians owner Richard Jacobs.\n\nStill, Cleveland Mayor George Voinovich and Governor Celeste pushed forward to create the Greater Cleveland Dome Stadium Corporation, borrowing $22 million from banks and the state of Ohio. Cleveland Tomorrow, a group of top executives from Cleveland's biggest firms, launched a development fund to further the project, and acquisition of property began in December 1985. By 1989, the site of the former Central Market, a fruit and vegetable market that dated back to 1856, and other adjacent buildings were razed and made into parking lots. However, there were funding gaps and big disagreements as to who would pay to build the project, along with a change in leadership.\n\nIn 1990, new leadership took the baton from the dome stadium group. The team was a partnership of Cleveland Tomorrow, led by lawyer Tom Chema, and a group of elected officials. The group included newly elected Mayor Michael R. White, newly elevated Cleveland City Council President Jay Westbrook, along with Cuyahoga County Commissioners Tim Hagan, Virgil Brown, Mary Boyle, and Jim Petro. The group hastily coordinated a plan to finance the complex by asking county voters for a 15-year sin tax, styled after the Hexatron plan. The tax, which amounted to 1.9 cents on a can of beer, 1.5 cents per ounce of liquor, and 4.5 cents on a pack of cigarettes, would be a way get suburban county voters to pay for the project. But it required a countywide vote, which added it to the May primary election ballot as \"Issue 2\" in the hopes that it would pass with the normally light turnout.\n\nThere was heavy advertising both for and against Issue 2. There was also a Major League Baseball lockout in February 1990 over player salaries. It directly threatened weaker teams, such as the Indians, that did not have the cushion of additional revenues from luxury boxes and other stadium amenities. Just days before the vote, baseball commissioner Fay Vincent attended a city council finance committee meeting and stated, \"should the vote [on Issue 2] be a negative one, we may find ourselves confronting a subject we want to avoid.\"\n\nThese factors helped drive a large turnout, as 49.6% of registered voters cast ballots. On May 8, 1990, Issue 2 passed by a slim 51% margin (198,390-185,209). A month later, Mayor White and Commissioner Hagan created Gateway Economic Development Corporation, a non-profit organization, and installed Chema as its executive director.\n\nBoth venues were completed in 1994. Todd Greathouse is the current executive director of the Gateway Economic Development Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "4846960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4846960", "title": "George Biddle", "text": "George Biddle\n\nGeorge Biddle (January 24, 1885 – November 6, 1973) was an American painter, muralist and lithographer, best known for his social realism and combat art. A childhood friend of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, he played a major role in establishing the Federal Art Project (1935–43), which employed artists under the Works Progress Administration.\n\nBorn to an established Philadelphia family, Biddle attended the elite Groton School (where he was a classmate of Franklin D. Roosevelt). He completed his undergraduate studies and later earned a law degree from Harvard (1908 and 1911, respectively). He passed his bar examination in Philadelphia.\n\nBiddle's legal career was short-lived, however, and by the end of 1911 he had left the United States to study at the Académie Julian in Paris. In the next two years he studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. Returning to Europe in 1914, Biddle spent time in Munich and Madrid, studying printmaking in the Spanish capital, before trying his hand at impressionism in France. As he remembered, \"I gobbled up museums, French Impressionism, cubism, futurism, and the old masters; I copied Velasquez in Madrid and Rubens in Munich….\" In 1917, with the United States' entry into the First World War, Biddle enlisted in the army.\n\nIn the early interwar period Biddle continued his studies in far-flung locations such as Tahiti, returned to France in 1924, and in 1928 went on a sketching trip through Mexico with Diego Rivera.\n\nPrior to his Mexican travels, Biddle had returned to the United States in 1927 and established a printing shop in New York, where he \"began to explore the variety and richness of technique and expressionism possible in lithography\", a medium which he hoped would \"popularize American art by making it better known to the American public\".\n\nIn the 1930s, Biddle became a champion of social art and strongly advocated government funding for artistic endeavors. His correspondence with his former classmate (and recently elected president) Franklin Roosevelt contributed to the establishment of the Federal Art Project, an arm of the Works Progress Administration that produced several hundred thousand pieces of publicly funded art. Biddle himself completed a mural titled \"The Tenement\" for the Justice Department building in Washington, D.C. and made sketches of the opera Porgy and Bess during its late 1930s tour. His works were exhibited at the 1939 New York World's Fair. During these years Biddle also wrote several books and taught at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center. Biddle was hired in 1940, along with eight other prominent American artists, to document dramatic scenes and characters during the production of the film \"The Long Voyage Home\", a cinematic adaptation of Eugene O'Neill's plays.\n\nHe served as President of the National Society of Mural Painters from 1935 to 1936.\n\nDuring World War II, Biddle was appointed chairman of the United States Department of War's Art Advisory Committee and served to recruit artists to that body. Biddle himself traveled through Algeria, Tunisia, Sicily, and Italy with the 3rd Infantry Division and produced works documenting that unit's activities. He wrote a book on his war travels: Artist at War Tunisia-Sicily-Italy, Viking Press, 1944. When the Art Advisory Committee was disbanded, he produced combat art for \"Life\" magazine.\n\nIn 1950, Biddle was appointed to the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts, serving until 1951 and again from 1953 to 1955.\n\nBiddle's best known work is in the mural \"Society Freed Through Justice\", five fresco panels in fifth-floor stairway of the Robert F. Kennedy Department of Justice Building in Washington, D.C., produced under the U.S. Treasury Department's Section of Painting and Sculpture. At the time of Biddle's death in 1973, \"New York Times\" art critic John Canaday called the mural \"the best he ever did. It depicted the everyday people of this country with extraordinary dignity, and it still stands up today.\"\n\nGeorge Biddle's brother was Francis Biddle (1886–1968), who was Attorney General of the United States. During Francis' tenure as the Attorney General, the new Department of Justice Building opened featuring murals painted by George that incorporated Francis' image in the \"Life of the Law\" mural. George Biddle was married three times:\nGeorge Biddle died on November 6, 1973, in Croton-on-Hudson, New York.\n\nSome factors that contributed to Biddle's artwork are the many art movements that he was involved in. Biddle was involved in \"French Impressionism; the American Ashcan School; the School of Paris and Cubism during those early and exciting days when it first exploded on the world; Regionalism, the Mexican Mural Movement, and the New Deal Subsidy of Art\". He also was involved in the \"post war currents of contemporary art\". Many of his works of art were contemporary. Another factor that contributed to Biddle's artwork were his friendships with many great \"painters, sculptors, and critics of the past generation and his life-long activity in behalf of fellow artists\". He borrowed many of the other artists' styles and turned them into his own by using different techniques and images to get a different effect. Biddle believed that everyone's life should be influenced by every \"fact with which one comes in contact, until one ceases to grow or is, actually dead\". This is the reason why Biddle became such a successful American artist; he had his own style, and expressed real actual events.\n\nA further influence on Biddle was Mary Cassatt. Biddle met Cassatt at the Académie Julian in Paris; she too was from Philadelphia. Cassatt helped to cultivate in Biddle an appreciation of the work of Degas. Some of Biddle's prints reflected \"the style of these two artists in their intimate, domestic subject matter\".\n\nBiddle put in his \"personal feelings—affection, humor, compassion, irony, social outrage—as well as his technical mastery of the lithographic medium\" to \"enliven his work\".\n\nGeorge Biddle achieved a lot of goals that helped other artists make their way. His work serves as a \"kind of index to the many style and themes which occupied artists in the first half of the 20th century\". When Biddle volunteered to go to the war, it changed his whole life and how he saw the world. He got to travel the country and study the art of different cultures thus enriching the art that he would produce. Biddle captured scenes and people how they naturally occurred in life. \"Catfish Row\" is a good example of Biddle capturing people and objects in their natural state. \"Rejecting the stale formulas of academism and critical of what he saw as a loss of articulate emotional expressionism in much of modernist art, Biddle grappled with his own artistic identity throughout his life\".\n\n\n\n\nArchives of American Art\n"}
{"id": "18017886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18017886", "title": "Ghulam Jilani Popal", "text": "Ghulam Jilani Popal\n\nIn 2012, Ghulam Jelani Popal, commonly referred to as Jelani Popal, was appointed as the Governance Advisor to the President of Afghanistan. From September 2007 to December 2010, he was appointed as the first Director General of the Independent Directorate Local Governance (IDLG) in Afghanistan. Between 2003 and 2005 after the collapse of the Taliban and establishment of the new Afghan Government, Mr. Popal served as Deputy Minister for Customs and Revenue under the Ministry of Finance Ministry of Finance (Afghanistan).\n\nMr. Popal was born in the Barikot neighborhood of Kabul, Afghanistan, where his forefathers settled during the reign of Timur Shah Abdali when the Afghan Capital was moved from Kandahar to Kabul. He is a graduate of Habibia High School and the Faculty of Law at Kabul University.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1989, he was the program officer for the Salvation Army Refugee Assistance Program in Pakistan. Mr. Popal founded and managed the Afghan Development Association between 1990 and 2000, and was also one of the 7 founding directors of Afghan Health And Development Services (AHDS). Between 1995 and 1999, he was a representative of the Afghan Civil Society to the United Nations. From 2000-2003, he worked as the Senior Social Worker for San Joaquin County, California, United States. He has attended numerous management and development courses in Europe and the United States and is fluent in English, Pashtu, Dari, and Urdu.\n\nGhulam Jelani Popal was the Vice President of Afghan Social Democratic Party (Afghan Mellat). Since last year the post of a vice president in the Afghan Mellat does not exist anymore.\n\n"}
{"id": "1229366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229366", "title": "Giovanni Bisignani", "text": "Giovanni Bisignani\n\nGiovanni Bisignani (born 1946) is an Italian businessman, who was Director General and Chief Executive Officer of the International Air Transport Association from 2002 to 2011.\n\nBisignani was born in Rome, and received an undergraduate degree from the Sapienza University of Rome. He later studied as graduate student at Harvard Business School.\n\nBisignani has managerial and business advisory experience, mostly in the transportation field, including:\n\nDuring his time at the IATA, Bisignani published \"Shaking the Skies\", a book covering his experience there, focussing on leadership issues, governance and the role of executives in executing a strategic vision for their industry \n\nSince 2002, Bisignani has led a number of initiatives reshaping air transport:\n\n\nBorn in Rome in 1946, Bisignani speaks Italian, English, and Spanish. He is married with one daughter and enjoys golf, tennis and riding.\n\n"}
{"id": "2607554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2607554", "title": "Graphical Evaluation and Review Technique", "text": "Graphical Evaluation and Review Technique\n\nGraphical Evaluation and Review Technique, commonly known as GERT, is a network analysis technique used in project management that allows probabilistic treatment both network logic and estimation of activity duration. The technique was first described in 1966 by Dr. Alan B. Pritsker of Purdue University and WW Happ.\n\nCompared to other techniques, GERT is only rarely used in complex systems. Nevertheless, the GERT approach addresses the majority of the limitations associated with PERT/CPM technique. GERT allows loops between tasks. The fundamental drawback associated with the GERT technique is the complex programme (Monte Carlo simulation) required to model the GERT system. Development in GERT includes Q-GERTS - allowing the user to consider queuing within the system.\n"}
{"id": "22814448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22814448", "title": "Henry M. Dawes", "text": "Henry M. Dawes\n\nHenry May Dawes (April 22, 1877 – September 29, 1952) was an American businessman and banker from a prominent Ohio family. He served as a United States Comptroller of the Currency from 1923 to 1924 and also worked as an executive in the oil industry.\n\nDawes was born in Marietta, Ohio, the youngest son of American Civil War brevet Brigadier General Rufus R. Dawes and great-great-grandson of American Revolution hero William Dawes. His brothers Charles, Rufus, and Beman also gained national and international prominence in politics and business. Henry M. Dawes graduated from Marietta College and entered business. He married Helen Moore Curtis of Coshocton, Ohio in 1905.\n\nDawes was an Illinois banker and businessman when he was named Comptroller by President Warren G. Harding in 1923. Although he held office for only 19 months, Dawes carried out a nationwide effort to gather recommendations from national bank officials and other experts for changes in the banking laws. With the assistance of a volunteer committee of national bankers, Dawes drafted proposals that were submitted to Congress. The Dawes recommendations resulted in the McFadden Act, enacted under his successor.\n\nDawes returned to the oil industry after his term, as president of Pure Oil Company from 1924–52. In 1936, along with other oil company executives, he was indicted and stood trial for violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act. Acquitted, he resumed his civic duties, serving as Program Committee Chair for the Economic Club of Chicago from 1939 until 1940, as well as on its board of directors, along with his brother Rufus. He died on September 29, 1952 in Evanston, Illinois.\n\nFormer \"Red Eye w/ Greg Gutfeld\" personality (FOXNews Channel) Bill Schulz is Henry Dawes' great-grandson.\n"}
{"id": "58020679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58020679", "title": "Insight Park", "text": "Insight Park\n\nThe Insight Park at the University of Mississippi is a business park next to Ole Miss's campus in Oxford, Mississippi. Construction began in 2010, and the park was dedicated in 2012.\n\nEldon Insurance and Big Data Pharma, two companies owned by British businessman Arron Banks, signed a lease in Insight Park in February 2018 on the recommendation of Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant. As of June 2018, a $200,000 office building is expected to be built for Big Data Pharma, potentially paid for by the Mississippi Development Authority and the University of Mississippi Research Foundation, for an annual lease of $78,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "45150808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45150808", "title": "James A. Field", "text": "James A. Field\n\nJames Alfred Field (May 26, 1880 – July 16, 1927) was an American economist and Professor of Political Economy at the University of Chicago, known as one of the proponents of institutional economics and as demographer, who contributed to the theory of population and its history.\n\nBorn in Milton, Massachusetts, Field obtained his MS in economics at Harvard University in 1903, and continued to do post-graduate work at Harvard and at the University of Berlin.\n\nField started his academic career in 1903 as assistant in economics at Harvard University, and became Austin teaching fellow in economics for a year, and instructor in 1906 to 1908. From 1906 to 1908 he was also instructor in economics at Radcliffe College. In 1908 he started at the University of Chicago as instructor in economics, and was promoted assistant professor in 1910, associate professor in 1913, and full professor in 1918 until his death in 1927. In the year 1923-24 he was also dean of the College of Arts and Literature.\n\nFiled was also known as founding president of the Illinois Birth Control League, and associate editor of the \"Journal of Political Economy,\" and during World War I was special investigator for the Council of National Defense in its division of statistics. He was elected fellow of the American Statistical Association.\n\nField came into prominence in the years from 1913 to 1919, when he was involved with professor of Economics Leon C. Marshall and the economic historian Chester W. Wright in \"attempts to move economics instruction away from the 'rigorous drill in orthodox theory' or the 'straight-jacket of conventional theory' to a method of instruction emphasizing the development of economic institutions, inquiry into current problems and issues, and fostering of creativity and originality (field 1917). To this end, they produced a book of readings to supplement the usual texts (Marshall, Wright, and Field 1913).\"\n\nIn a 1931 review of \"Essays on population, and other papers\" in \"The Eugenics Review\" Norman E. Himes (1899-1949), wrote:\nTHIS volume, by one of the greatest demographers America has produced, is a notable contribution to population thought and its history. An original, meticulously accurate scholar, Field has, unfortunately, been little known to European, and especially to Continental scholars. It is a great service, therefore, that one of his students should collect his more important scattered papers and notes, and edit them so ably. The solidity of the volume is matched by a felicity of literary presentation rarely found among economic writers; a combination especially refreshing in this day in America when, with growing numbers in our colleges, almost every underpaid professor becomes the hack author of a dull, poorly-written text-book.<br>The range of topics is wide. Part I contains twelve essays on eugenics, birth control, and Malthusianism, the treatment being essentially historical and critical. Part II collects three papers on economics and statistics, while Part III is a catalogue of the author's library on population. Since the Dictionary of American Biography has failed to include the career of Field, it is fitting that the editor has added a short biography together with a distinctive photograph of the author.\n\nAnd more specific about its content:\nI have always felt-perhaps there is a personal bias-that Essay III on \"The Early Propagandist Movement in English Population Theory\" was the best paper Field ever published. I know of no finer example of historico-economic research in the English language, no matter what tests are applied. Though Professor Graham Wallas deserves credit also, it is not an ungenerous distinction to say that Field was the first scholar to appraise in full measure Francis Place's efforts for birth control at the beginning of the last century. Much of the Place correspondence which Dr. Stopes has upon various occasions claimed to have \" discovered \" was known to, and used by, Field.<br>Essays IV, V, and IX are specifically on eugenics. They are Galtonian in idealism; but the author is mindful of the numerous difficulties. The article reprinted from the Quarterly Journal of Economics is an excellent historical and critical review of euge-nical literature produced up to the time of\npublication (1911). Regrettably, the author never followed it up.\n\n"}
{"id": "5244692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5244692", "title": "James Buchanan, 1st Baron Woolavington", "text": "James Buchanan, 1st Baron Woolavington\n\nJames Buchanan, 1st Baron Woolavington, (16 August 1849 – 9 August 1935), known as Sir James Buchanan, Bt, from 1920 to 1922, was a British businessman, philanthropist, and racehorse owner and breeder.\n\nBuchanan was born in Brockville, Ontario, Canada, the third and youngest son of Alexander Buchanan and his wife Catherine (née McLean), Scottish immigrants, but his parents returned to the United Kingdom shortly after he was born and he was brought up in Larne, where his father worked as a quarry manager. Due to ill health as a child, he was educated privately.\n\nBuchanan joined William Sloan & Co, a Glasgow shipping firm, as an office boy when he was fourteen or fifteen, and was later promoted to be a clerk. In 1868, he joined his brother William in his grain business, also in Glasgow. In November 1879, he moved to London as an agent for the Leith whisky blenders Charles Mackinlay & Co.\n\nHe realised that there was an untapped market in England for bottled Scotch whisky and set about producing his own, the \"Buchanan Blend\", which is still available today. He went into business on his own in 1884. Buchanan did not, however, produce his own whisky. It was produced for him by the Glasgow blenders W. P. Lowrie & Co. Marketed in distinctive black bottles with plain white labels, it was commonly known as \"black and white whisky\", a name that was eventually actually used on the label. By 1903, when his firm was incorporated as a private limited company, Buchanan was worth £750,000. By 1909, Buchanans was the best-selling Scotch in England. He supplied whisky to the House of Commons from 1885. In 1898, he received Royal Warrants to supply Queen Victoria, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York. Buchanan opened a Paris office in 1902 and a New York office shortly afterwards. In 1898 he opened Glentauchers malt whisky distillery on Speyside and later acquired two more distilleries. In 1906, he bought Lowrie's and rapidly mechanised their production facilities in Glasgow. In 1907, he acquired an interest in the North British Bottle Manufacturing Company and purchased the Acme Tea Chest Company, both to aid his business. Both were rapidly mechanised. He was a master of publicity, driving a red-wheeled buggy pulled by a black pony and accompanied by a liveried footman.\n\nIn 1909, Buchanan proposed a merger between the \"big three\" whisky firms: Buchanan's, Dewar's, and Walker's. This, however, was not successful. He tried again in 1914, and in April 1915 Buchanan's and Dewar's formed a joint holding company, Scotch Whisky Brands Ltd, renamed Buchanan Dewar Ltd in 1919. In 1925, the \"big three\" merged with the Distillers Company. Buchanan was a director, but his age and failing health (he had never been in the best of health) meant he played little part in the company, attending only a single board meeting.\n\nBuchanan was vice-president of the Tariff Reform League. He owned properties in Kenya and Argentina and part-owned, with Lord Aberdeen, a 20,000-acre fruit farm in British Columbia, Canada. He was appointed High Sheriff of Sussex in 1910.\n\nHe spent much of his wealth on philanthropic projects. He bought the logbook of HMS \"Victory\" and presented it to the British Museum, financed the fitting out of HMS \"Implacable\" as a training ship, and donated £125,000 to fund a wing at Middlesex Hospital in 1928 in honour of his late wife, £50,000 to restore the nave of St George's Chapel, Windsor, £10,000 to the University of Edinburgh to fund animal breeding research (later receiving an honorary Doctorate of Laws), £10,000 to fund a ward at the London Hospital, £5,000 to the West of Scotland Agricultural College, £2,500 to the Licensed Victuallers' School, and £2,500 to the Licensed Victuallers' Benevolent Institution.\n\nFor more than two decades, Woolavington was a significant owner/breeder in the sport of Thoroughbred horse racing who twice won The Derby and St. Leger Stakes. Among his best known runners were Epsom Lad, Hurry On, who became the foundation sire for his stud, Captain Cuttle, Coronach, Press Gang, and Coventry Stakes winner Manitoba who went on to become the leading sire in Australia in 1944 and 1945. He set up a stud farm at his Sussex estate, Lavington Park, near Petworth, which he had bought in 1903. He was elected to the Jockey Club in 1927. He also bred pedigree cattle and sheep.\n\nBuchanan was created a baronet, of Lavington in the County of Sussex, in the 1920 New Year Honours, for \"public and local services\" and was raised to the peerage in the 1922 New Year Honours as Baron Woolavington, of Lavington, in the County of Sussex, for being a \"generous supporter of many public and charitable objects\". However, it is said that he paid £50,000 for his peerage, signing the cheque \"Woolavington\" and dating it 2 January – the day after the title was to be gazetted – so that the payment would bounce if he did not receive the honour he had been promised. He was appointed Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO) in the 1931 New Year Honours.\n\nOn 5 December 1891, Buchanan married a young widow thirteen years his junior, Annie Eliza Bardolph (née Pounder). Annie already had a son and a daughter; together the couple had a daughter, the Honourable Catherine Buchanan, and a son who died in infancy. Annie was a nurse and worked in London hospitals during the First World War. She died suddenly in October 1918. The peerage and baronetcy became extinct on Woolavington's death at Lavington Park in August 1935, aged 85. He left an estate worth over £7 million and was buried in the nearby churchyard of Graffham.\n\n"}
{"id": "38998716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38998716", "title": "Joan Rosell", "text": "Joan Rosell\n\nJoan Rosell Lastortras is the president of the Spanish employers confederation (CEOE). He replaced Gerardo Diaz Ferran in June 2011. Prior to being elected to this post he was the president of the Catalan national employers federation (Foment del Treball Nacional) for 16 years. During his career he was president of the following companies; Congost, Enher, Fuerzas Eléctricas de Cataluña and OMB, Sistemas de Higiene Urbana.\n\nAfter initially working as a journalist in Diario de Barcelona and Telexpres he studied civil engineering and graduated from the Universidad Politecnica de Cataluña. He also studied Political science at the Universidad Complutense in Madrid.\nIn 1980 he cofounded the political party Solidaritat Catalan and was candidate in the 1980 regional elections. In 1995 he became president of the Catalan employers federation. He is also memberof the FC Barcelona Foundation and a non-executive director of Criteria Caixa Corp. He has also written several books on employment and economic policy.\nHe is married and has 3 children.\n\nHe was elected on 20 September 2010 obtaining 444 votes versus 247 for his competitor. The highlight of his presidency was the negotiation of the spanish labour market reforms in 2012 with the government of Mariano Rajoy.\n\n\n(ES) Translated from the Spanish version\n"}
{"id": "11693979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11693979", "title": "José Berrocal", "text": "José Berrocal\n\nJosé M. Berrocal (1957 – October 25, 2000) was the youngest president of Puerto Rico Government Development Bank (1991–1992).\n\nBerrocal was born in 1957 in Puerto Rico.\n\nHe graduated in 1975 from the Academia del Perpetuo Socorro in Miramar, PR, where he distinguished himself as president of the student council and the Model United Nations Club of PR. An accomplished debater, he championed Perpetuo's Model UN team to first place at the Washington, DC nationals. In 1979, Berrocal graduated Phi Beta Kappa with a Bachelor's degree from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. He followed this with studies as a Marshall Scholar at Oxford University, and then the study of law at Yale University, where he was an editor at the \"Yale Law Journal\".\n\nAfter serving for several years as Legal Counselor to Puerto Rico Governor Rafael Hernández Colón, Berrocal was chosen to serve as president of the Puerto Rico Government Development Bank, the fiscal agent of the Government of Puerto Rico. At the time of his selection, he became the youngest president in the history of the bank.\n\nDuring his years in public service, Berrocal was also the Governor's designee in the years-long negotiations led by the United States Senate Energy Committee Chairman J. Bennett Johnston, D-La, on Puerto Rico's political status, representing the status quo. He also mentored numerous young professionals working in government, some of whom were humorously called \"berrocalitos\" (or mini-Berrocal's) in his honor.\n\nIn 1991, it was rumored that Governor Hernández Colón intended to appoint Berrocal as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, according to a recent history of the Supreme Court (La justicia en sus manos-2007).\n\nSubsequent to his stint in government, Berrocal became managing director of Wolfensohn (later acquired by Bankers Trust, then Deutsche Bank, where he worked closely with Federal Reserve Bank chairman Paul Volcker. Prominent businesses in and out of Puerto Rico sought him out as a consultant.\n\nBerrocal's close Princeton classmate, Bill Ford, found out that he was seriously ill with a rare disease, thymic cancer. After visiting him in Puerto Rico, Ford sent a plane to fly his friend to the Henry Ford Hospital in Michigan, where a new chemotherapy treatment was applied, to no avail. On October 25, 2000, Berrocal died with his family and Bill Ford at his bedside.\n\nOn December 7, 2001, Bill Ford and the Ford Motor Company announced the creation of the José M. Berrocal Scholarship for Environmental Studies — $10,000 scholarships to assist graduate students studying environmental disciplines in Puerto Rico.\n\nOn May 13, 2002, the Government Development Bank announced the creation of the José M. Berrocal Institute for the Study of Public Finances and the Economy, which offers \"training on the theory and practice of public finances and economic development to university students and new government employees.\" Since 2002, the GDB has sponsored the annual José Berrocal Finance & Economy Institute Internships aimed at providing college level students in the areas of Business Administration, Finance, Economy and Public Administrations — the areas in which Berrocal personally excelled — with a two-month internship experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "53136442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53136442", "title": "Juan-Miguel Villar Mir", "text": "Juan-Miguel Villar Mir\n\nJuan-Miguel Villar Mir (born 30 September 1931) is a Spanish billionaire, former politician, and the chairman and CEO of the construction company Obrascón Huarte Lain.\n\nHe was born in Madrid on 30 September 1931. He has a degree in Industrial Organisation, and a doctorate in Civil Engineering.\n\nFrom December 1975 to July 1976, he was the Minister of Economy and Finance. In 1976, he was Deputy Prime Minister of Spain for about six months, as a member of the Falange Española Tradicionalista y de las Juntas de Ofensiva Nacional Sindicalista party, under Prime Minister Carlos Arias Navarro.\n\nObrascón Huarte Lain fell into financial difficulties in the late 1980s, however, and was bought from bankruptcy for one penny in 1987 by Villar Mir, who remains the company's chairman today. Villar Mir turned around the firm's fortunes, and it listed on the Bolsa de Madrid in 1991.\n\nHe has been a non-executive director of Santander since 2013.\n\nHe is married with three children and lives in Madrid, Spain.\n"}
{"id": "35669827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35669827", "title": "Leadership &amp; Management Wales", "text": "Leadership &amp; Management Wales\n\nLeadership & Management wales is an organisation funded by the Welsh Government and the European Social Fund to encourage the development of leadership and management skills among businesses in Wales.\n\nIt was formed in 2009 in response to a report entitled \"Skills That Work for Wales\", and is run by a consortium, led by Cardiff Business School at Cardiff University, and also including Glyndwr University, Aberystwyth University, and Tattum Guest Associates. Its main office is in Cardiff, with others in Wrexham and Aberystwyth.\n\nLMW states on its website that it was “formed to support businesses in developing their leadership and management development (LMD) skills, enabling them to increase efficiency and help grow the economy in Wales”.\n\nIt is part of the Welsh Government’s Workforce Development Programme and Enhancing Leadership and Management Skills (ELMS) programme. LMW runs events, conducts and commissions research, and provides online resources and information on funding and training courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "22523337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22523337", "title": "Liberty Tower (Manhattan)", "text": "Liberty Tower (Manhattan)\n\nThe Liberty Tower, formerly the Sinclair Oil Building, is located at 55 Liberty Street at the corner of Nassau Street in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City was built in 1909–10 as a commercial office building and was designed by Chicago architect Henry Ives Cobb in a Gothic Revival style. It was built on a site adjacent to the New York City Chamber of Commerce Building (1901); the subsequent New York Federal Reserve Bank building was constructed to the east, across Nassau Street, in 1922. A completely free-standing 33-story building, in 1909 Liberty Tower was the tallest building in the world with such a small footprint. The limestone building is covered in white architectural terracotta ornamented with birds and alligators and other fanciful subjects.\n\nBefore its construction in 1909, a prior building on the same site housed the offices of the \"New York Evening Post\" under editor William Cullen Bryant, and served as the first headquarters of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, established by Henry Bergh in 1867.\n\nPresident Franklin Delano Roosevelt's law office was one of its first commercial tenants after the building opened in 1910. In 1917, an office was leased as cover for German spies seeking to prevent America's intervention in World War I (then called \"The Great War\"). The plot involved an attempt to draw the United States into a diversionary war with Mexico and Japan. The plot was exposed on March 1, 1917, with news reports of an intercepted telegram decoded by British cryptographers, the notorious \"Zimmermann Telegram\", which prompted President Woodrow Wilson to declare war against Germany a month later.\n\nShortly afterward, the entire building was leased by the Sinclair Oil Company, responsible for the Teapot Dome scandal of 1922. Prior to the 1974 Watergate scandal, this was called \"the most sensational scandal in the history of American politics,\" and became the most enduring legacy of Warren G. Harding's troubled presidency.\n\nIn 1979, the structure, renamed Liberty Tower, was converted from commercial use into a residential building, one of the first such conversions in Manhattan south of Canal Street, by architect Joseph Pell Lombardi. It was designated a New York City landmark in 1982, and was added to the National Register of Historic Places on September 15, 1983.\n\nBecause the then new principles of \"skyscraper\" design were not yet fully understood, the building was overbuilt, with its steel foundation anchored deeply into bedrock five stories below street level. This overly sturdy construction helped this tall, slender building withstand the collapse of two World Trade Towers only 220 yards (201 m) to the west on September 11, 2001, with only minimal damage despite the impact which was measured at the time as a 3.3 magnitude seismic event.\n\nA restoration of the building was undertaken from 2007 to 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38406947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38406947", "title": "List of supermarket chains in Algeria", "text": "List of supermarket chains in Algeria\n\nThis is a list of supermarket chains in Algeria.\n\nThe Algerian chain Ardis (owned by Algerian group Arcofina) is currently operating one hypermarket in the country in Mohammedia just outside Algiers. In the future Ardis will open 19 hypermarkets in the country, the next hypermarket will open near Oran in Bir El Djir. Carrefour ended their partnership with the Algerian group Arcofina in February 19, 2009. \"The concept of mass distribution does not work in Algeria,\" added Carrefour. Before that, Carrefour had still only one store opened as of 2009, of 18 hypermarkets planned by 2012. The private group Arcofina explained that there was a delay because of difficulties in finding available land for hypermarkets. Arcofina is now focusing on opening hypermarkets in the future under the Ardis brand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6405292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6405292", "title": "Local-authority trading enterprise", "text": "Local-authority trading enterprise\n\nA local authority trading enterprise (LATE) was an organisation established in New Zealand under the Local Government Act 1974.\n\nThe 1989 legislation assigned regional councils planning and funding responsibilities, but not the transport supplier function. It required regional councils or other territorial authorities either to divest their transport assets to the private sector, or to establish a transport-related local authority trading enterprise.\n\nLocal authority trading enterprises were replaced by council-controlled organisations under the Local Government Act 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "195382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195382", "title": "Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award", "text": "Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award\n\nThe Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award recognizes U.S. organizations in the business, health care, education, and nonprofit sectors for performance excellence. The Baldrige Award is the only formal recognition of the performance excellence of both public and private U.S. organizations given by the President of the United States. It is administered by the Baldrige Performance Excellence Program, which is based at and managed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), an agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce. \n\nUp to 18 awards may be given annually across six eligibility categories—manufacturing, service, small business, education, health care, and nonprofit. As of 2016, 113 awards have been presented to 106 organizations (including seven repeat winners).\n\nThe Baldrige Performance Excellence Program and the associated award were established by the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Improvement Act of 1987 (Public Law 100–107). The program and award were named for Malcolm Baldrige, who served as United States Secretary of Commerce during the Reagan administration, from 1981 until Baldrige’s 1987 death in a rodeo accident. In 2010, the program's name was changed to the Baldrige Performance Excellence Program.\n\nThe award is not given for specific products or services.\n\nThe Baldrige Excellence Framework has three parts: (1) the criteria for performance excellence, (2) core values and concepts, and (3) scoring guidelines. The framework serves two main purposes: (1) to help organizations assess their improvement efforts, diagnose their overall performance management system, and identify their strengths and opportunities for improvement and (2) to identify Baldrige Award recipients that will serve as role models for other organizations.\n\nThe criteria for performance excellence are based on a set of core values:\n\nThe questions that make up the criteria represent seven aspects of organizational management and performance:\n\nThe three sector-specific versions of the Baldrige framework are revised every two years:\n\nIn the early and mid-1980s, many U.S. industry and government leaders saw that a renewed emphasis on quality was necessary for doing business in an expanding and competitive world market.\n\nThe Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Improvement Act of 1987, signed into law on August 20, 1987, was developed through the actions of the National Productivity Advisory Committee, chaired by Jack Grayson. The nonprofit research organization APQC, founded by Grayson, organized the first White House Conference on Productivity, spearheading the creation of the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award in 1987. The Baldrige Award was envisioned as a standard of excellence that would help U.S. organizations achieve competitive quality.\n\nIn the late summer and fall of 1987, Dr. Curt Reimann, the first director of the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Program, and his staff at the National Institute of Standards and Technology developed an award implementation framework, including an evaluation scheme, and advanced proposals for what is now the Baldrige Award. In its first three years, the Baldrige Award was jointly administered by APQC and the American Society for Quality, which continues to assist in administering the award program under contract to NIST.\n\nA study by Truven Health Analytics links hospitals that adopt and use the Baldrige Criteria to successful operations, management practices, and overall performance.\n\nThe Baldrige Award is supported by a public-private partnership. The following organizations and entities play a key role:\n\n"}
{"id": "559674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559674", "title": "Martin Connell", "text": "Martin Connell\n\nMartin Philip Connell, OC, O.Ont is a Canadian business man and philanthropist. He is the 1994 recipient of the Pearson Medal of Peace for his work in fighting poverty.\n\nMartin Connell and his wife Linda Haynes co-founded Calmeadow, an organization that traditionally supported the provision of credit and financial services to micro-entrepreneurs in developing countries who are unable to access traditional sources. Calmeadow is now operating out of San Jose Costa Rica under the direction of Alex Silva and the co-founders are no longer directly involved. In connection with his earlier association with Calmeadow, Martin is past chairChair of ProFund Internacional, S.A., former President of AfriCap MicroVentures Ltd., two regional investment funds with interests in local financial institutions providing credit and financial services to low-income self-employed people in Latin America and Africa. Profund has subsequently been wound up and its assets distributed to its investors.\nIn addition to his involvement with Micro credit and microfinance, he has an extensive involvement in various volunteer community activities. He was the founding chair of TIFF, the Toronto international film festival, past chair of the Salvation Army Advisory Board, past chair of IMAGINE, a national philanthropic organization that promotes giving and volunteering, Chair of the Skydome ( now the Rogers Stadium) during its construction phase\n\nMartin is immediate past Chair of the Board of Directors of the Toronto Community Foundation, a registered public charitable foundation that builds and manages individual funds that support local charitable organizations and whose mission is to connect philanthropy to community needs and opportunities. He is president and CEO of The Omega Foundation, which was established to promote financial self-sufficiency and financial literacy for low-income families. \nMartin holds honorary doctorate degrees from five Canadian universities. His other honours and awards include: International Association of Culinary Professionals (IACP) Humanitarian Award (2006), CESO Award for International Development (1997), Ontario Entrepreneur of the Year Award (1995), the Order of Ontario (1994), The Pearson Peace Medal from the United Nations Association in Canada (1994), and Officer of the Order of Canada (1998).\n\nHe is the co-founder, with his wife Linda Haynes, of ACE Bakery Limited, a Toronto, Ontario bakery serving wholesale and retail customers in Canada and the American east coast. He and his wife sold the company to a private equity firm in 2008. It is now owned and operated by George Weston Limited of Toronto. Martin was also the first headmaster of the Jesuit school in Dodoma St Peter Claver High School\nFrom 1965 until 1996 Martin occupied various executive positions at Conwest Exploration Company Limited. Conwest was founded by Martin's grandfather Frederick M. Connell in 1938 and was run as a successful mining company and subsequently oil and gas exploration and development company from the late 70s until the company was acquired in 1996 by Encana.\n\nHis daughter Devin Connell owns the popular Toronto eatery Delica. \n\n"}
{"id": "53540938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53540938", "title": "Morse Building", "text": "Morse Building\n\nThe Morse Building, also known as the Nassau-Beekman Building, is a high-rise building located in Manhattan, New York City. The Morse Building was one of the world's first prismatically shaped skyscrapers and, at 140 feet, one of the tallest buildings in New York when built. Its sheer walls and flat roof were a departure from designs of previous buildings topped by step-backs, mansard roofs, or towers. It was developed by G. Livingston and Sidney E. Morse, nephews of telegraph inventor Samuel F. B. Morse. The building was designated a New York City landmark in September, 2006.\n\nThe site of the Morse Building, at the northeast corner of Nassau and Beekman Streets, was the location where Christian newspaper \"The New-York Observer\" was published from 1840 to 1859. The architectural firm, Silliman & Farnsworth, filed for the construction of the eight-story building, including a raised basement and an attic. Construction began in June 1878 and was completed in March 1880. Upon its completion, the owners claimed that the Morse Building was “the tallest straight wall building in the world.\" Interior amenities included 175 offices, two hydraulic Otis elevators, steam heat, gas lighting, and fireplaces.\n\nThe base of the Morse Building was damaged in a January 1882 fire that destroyed the New York World Building. From 1896 to 1900, the Morse Building was the site of the office and rooftop studio of one of the earliest American motion picture companies, which became the Vitagraph Company of America founded by J. Stuart Blackton and Abert E. Smith.\n\nThe Morse Building's design was marked three periods of construction: the original (1878–80), as well as alterations in 1901-02 and c. 1965. Today, the structure’s 6-story midsection, with two articulated facades featuring round- and segmental-arched fenestration, is, in part, the earliest surviving tall “fireproof” New York office building of the period prior to the full development of the\nskyscraper.\n\nThe building was designed in with Victorian Gothic, Neo-Grec, and Rundbogenstil influences. It is an early example of the use of brick and terra cotta for the exterior cladding of office buildings constructed during that time period. The intricate polychrome brickwork was supplied by the Peerless Brick Company of Philadelphia. It features hues of deep red and glazed black, the latter employed ornamentally, largely to emphasize the outlines of the fenestration. The terra cotta was manufactured by the Boston Terra Cotta Co., one of\nthe first East Coast firms.\n\nThe building was significantly altered in 1901-02 to an Edwardian Neo-Classical style, designed by of architects Bannister & Schell. The renovations included remodeling the base; reconstructing the upper two stories, capped by a projecting balcony/cornice supported by large scroll brackets; and adding four steel-framed stories clad in cream-colored brick, bringing it to 14 stories. The building's base was altered again around 1965, removing the 10th-story balcony/cornice. The building was converted from commercial to residential use in 1980. One-over-one double-hung wood-framed windows (with transoms in the round arches) were replaced in 1986 with anodized aluminum windows (except for the 8th story, which are mostly wood).\n\n"}
{"id": "1775454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775454", "title": "New chemical entity", "text": "New chemical entity\n\nA new chemical entity (NCE) is, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, a drug that contains no active moiety that has been approved by the FDA in any other application submitted under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.\n\nA new molecular entity (NME) is a drug that contains an active moiety that has never been approved by the FDA or marketed in the US.\n\nAn active moiety is a molecule or ion, excluding those appended portions of the molecule that cause the drug to be an ester, salt (including a salt with hydrogen or coordination bonds), or other noncovalent derivative (such as a complex, chelate, or clathrate) of the molecule, responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance.\n\nAn NCE is a molecule developed by the innovator company in the early drug discovery stage, which after undergoing clinical trials could translate into a drug that could be a treatment for some disease. Synthesis of an NCE is the first step in the process of drug development. Once the synthesis of the NCE has been completed, companies have two options before them. They can either go for clinical trials on their own or license the NCE to another company. In the latter option, companies can avoid the expensive and lengthy process of clinical trials, as the licensee company would be conducting further clinical trials and subsequently launching the drug. Companies adopting this model of business would be able to generate high margins as they get a huge one-time payment for the NCE as well as entering into a revenue sharing agreement with the licensee company.\n\nUnder the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, all new chemical entities must first be reviewed by an advisory committee before the FDA can approve these products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15788402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15788402", "title": "Noël Devisch", "text": "Noël Devisch\n\nNoël Devisch (born 6 March 1943, in Bruges) is a Belgian businessman and former President of the Boerenbond (Belgian Catholic Farmers Union) in Leuven. He was succeeded by Piet Vanthemsche.\n\nHe obtained a degree in agricultural engineering from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL), and a Master of Science in agricultural management from the University of Reading (Reading, United Kingdom), and a PhD in agricultural economics from the University of Missouri, Missouri (United States).\n\nHe started his professional career in 1967 as a researcher at the \"Institut économique agricole\" in Brussels, where he would stay until 1972 and again from 1976 until 1978. From 1972 until 1975, ha was Assistant at the University of Missouri (United States). From 1979 until 1980, he was a member of the Cabinet of Belgian Agriculture Minister Albert Lavens. From 1981 until 1984 he was a European Commission official in Brussels. From 1985 until 1988, he was a member of the Cabinet Frans Andriessen, Vice-President of the European Commission. In 1989, he was a member of the Cabinet of the European Commissioner Ray Mac Sharry.\n\nIn 1989 he became a member of the Executive Committee of the Belgian \"Boerenbond\" and he became its Vice-President on 1 June 1992 until 31 October 1995. He became President of the organization on 1 November 1995. In addition he was Chairman of the Boerenbond, and of SBB Servicegroup (accountancy) and the \"Maatschappij voor Roerend Bezit van de Belgische Boerenbond cv \" (MRBB), the holding company of the \"Boerenbond\". He became Director of Almanij in 1998 and became a member of its Management Committee in 2004 until 2005 when Almanij ceased to exist as a separate entity when it merged with KBC to form the KBC Group. Noël Devisch is also Director of KBC Insurance and a former regent of the National Bank of Belgium.\n\n"}
{"id": "6130974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6130974", "title": "Optical Storage Technology Association", "text": "Optical Storage Technology Association\n\nThe Optical Storage Technology Association (OSTA) is an international trade association which promotes the use of recordable optical technologies and products, and most notably it is responsible for the creation and maintenance of the UDF specification. Representing more than 85 percent of worldwide writable optical product shipment's manufacturers and resellers, it was incorporated in 1992.\n\nIn the autumn of 2007, OSTA spearheaded a campaign to encourage families and photographers to back up their digital photographs on compact discs. Since it is estimated that one out of seven computer hard drives \"crash\" within the first year, OSTA believes it is dangerous to merely rely on storing irreplaceable pictures on a hard drive alone.\n\n"}
{"id": "12078260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12078260", "title": "Panagiotis Skagiopoulos", "text": "Panagiotis Skagiopoulos\n\nPanagiotis Skagiopoulos (Greek: Παναγιώτης Σκαγιόπουλος, 1864–1942) was a Greek merchant and was a grape trader of a large company, the largest part that he help the philanthropic sentinel, a transaction that he done as he loved in Patras. In 1926, he built an orphanage centre where it still exist today in the city. The neighbourhood of Skagiopouleio is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "50825526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50825526", "title": "Paul Bloomfield", "text": "Paul Bloomfield\n\nPaul Bloomfield (February 1946 – April 2016) was a British property investor known as \"Boom-boom\" Bloomfield.\n\nBloomfield was involved with a string of high-profile deals during the 1980s and was known as the man that sourced the deals that made Tony Clegg's Mountleigh a stock market favourite in 1986-87.\nIn 1989, it emerged that he was the joint owner of the Alton Towers theme park and a leisure venture at Battersea Power Station after he formed a joint venture, Alton International, with David Broome of Alton Group who was struggling to complete the Battersea project.\n\nHe became bankrupt during the 1990s property crash. He later moved to Russia where he made successful deals in the former Soviet states. He helped to raise the finance for the redevelopment of Wembley Stadium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24780537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24780537", "title": "Pedro Juan Rosaly", "text": "Pedro Juan Rosaly\n\nPedro Juan Rosaly (b. 21 April 1862 - ca. 1920) was Mayor of Ponce, Puerto Rico from 23 December 1900 until 28 February 1901.\n\nPedro Juan Rosaly is best remembered for having a magnificent residence (the Rosaly-Batiz House) built at the corner of Villa and Mendez Vigo streets by renowned architect Manuel V. Domenech and who, four years later, in 1904, himself became mayor of Ponce.\n\nRosaly became the president of Banco de Ponce in the 1940s.\n\nIn Ponce there is a public housing development named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "18463283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18463283", "title": "SIMA", "text": "SIMA\n\nServicios Industriales de la Marina S.A. (Shipyard Marine Industrial Services), well known as SIMA or SIMA PERU S.A., is a Peruvian shipyard that operates as a state owned company established under private law in 1950 pursuing the activities of the former Naval Factory founded in 1845, and continually extending its operational capacity, first to the shipbuilding which SIMA pioneered in South America and then to the greatest metalworking structures manufacture, contributing to the defense and socio-economic development of Peru. The SIMA principally serve the Navy of Peru as well as domestic and foreign private clients through a wide range of products.\n\nOn May 22, 1845 during the first government of President Ramón Castilla, the State Factory in the city of Callao was established. Then named Naval Factory, this facility would become a leading establishment of its kind in South America. Such decision to establish this factory was due to the fact that Peru had taken steps to acquire the steamship \"Rimac\", first steam warship of the national navy at that time in the year of 1844, making it necessary to have an establishment where maintenance and repair could be provided.\n\nOn August 7, 1861 by orders of the President of the Republic, General Juan Antonio Pezet, the Naval Factory was entirely taken over by the Navy, arranging the creation of the Naval Factory Superintendence, thus achieving performance optimization. Years later the Naval Factory made history participating in the construction of the first South American armored ship monitor \"Victoria\" and the conversion of steamship \"Loa\" into an armored vehicle; installing machinery, artillery and hull armor. Both ships were part of the national fleet that confronted the Spanish fleet during the naval Battle of Callao in 1866.\n\nDuring the Pacific War the Naval Factory was actively engaged in the national efforts to confront the military conflict meeting the requirements of both the Navy and the Army. Unfortunately, at the end of the war, its facilities were destroyed after heroic efforts of men to serve even under the most difficult circumstances, thereby constituting the oldest record of what SIMA is today.\n\nIn the post war years, few of the ships possessed by the Navy were repaired in the state-owned floating dock of the \"Compañía Peruana de Vapores y Dique del Callao\" until 1930, date on winch it sank, forcing the Navy to send its ships to the Panama Canal zone, among other foreign shipyards.\n\nIn a situation of dependence on foreign shipyards, the Navy of Peru took up again naval repair activities to serve their small-sized vessels, creating the Naval Station of San Lorenzo in 1921. In 1925, with the arrival of submarines Type \"R\", the Naval Station of San Lorenzo was modernized installing machinery at the workshops and a modern shipyard with capacity of 800 tns bollard pull, inaugurated with the entry of torpedo-boat destroyer \"Rodriguez\".\n\nOn February 14, 1950 during the government of Manuel A. Odría, Servicios Industriales de la Marina (Marine Industrial Services) known as SIMA was created over the base of the Industrial Department of the Navy Dockyard, assigning the dry dock administration and workshops in order to serve the Peruvian Navy, the National Merchant Marine and private entities successfully. With creation of SIMA under administration of the Navy, the decision to get into the shipbuilding activity was made. Preparation of the shipyard for that purpose began. Berth number one, mould-loft, shipbuilding workshop among others were constructed.\n\nOn March, 25th 1999 Law N° 27073 was enacted, regulating activities of the company within the scope of the defense sector and paying particular attention to the Navy of Peru as well as individuals customers in order to generate profits to self-finance its own development and fulfill its role in society.\n\nShips built at the SIMA yard include:\n\n\nIts SIMA-CEFAR (\"Servicios Industriales de la Marina-Centro de Fabricacion de Armas\") unit builds the MGP-84 submachine gun.\n\n"}
{"id": "13536743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13536743", "title": "Samih Darwazah", "text": "Samih Darwazah\n\nSamih Darwazah (, 1930 - 15 May 2015) was the founder of Hikma Pharmaceuticals, Jordan's largest pharmaceutical business, the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources from 1995 to 1996, and later a senator in the Jordanian parliament.\n\nSamih Darwazah was born in Nablus, the son of a tea merchant father.\n\nHe studied for a master's degree at the American University of Beirut, Darwazah received a master's degree from the St. Louis College of Pharmacy, Missouri.\n\nHe worked for Eli Lilly from 1964 to 1976, before establishing Hikma Pharmaceuticals in 1978. Between 1995 and 1996 he served as Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources to the Government of Jordan. He also founded the \"Jordan Trade Association\" and was a member of the Advisory Economic Council to His Majesty the King of Jordan. In 2007, Darwazah was named the Ernst & Young Middle East Entrepreneur Of The Year. Darwazah was chairman of Capital Bank.\n\nDarwazah founded Hikma in 1978 in Amman, Jordan. With the help of his children, who joined the business in its early days, Hikma grew from a small factory in Jordan into the largest regional supplier of pharmaceuticals in the Middle East and North Africa (“MENA”) region. The company also expanded outside the MENA region, establishing operations in Europe and the US. Today Hikma operates in around 50 countries, selling a broad range of branded generics, generic injectables, non-injectable generics and in-licensed patented products. In 2005, the company floated on the London Stock Exchange and in March 2015 it entered the FTSE 100 index.\n\nIn 2004, Darwazah published his business memoir, \"Building a Global Success\".\n\nHe was married to Samira Fadli and they had four children, sons Said and Mazen, and daughters May and Hana, all of whom survived him. His son, Said Darwazah, succeeded him as CEO in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "33370598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33370598", "title": "Social clause", "text": "Social clause\n\nWithin the context of international trade, a social clause is the integration of seven core ILO labour rights conventions into trade agreements.\n\nCore labour standards would be inserted into an article within the WTO Agreements which could be a more viable option than amendment of the Agreements themselves. If a member state violated the social clause, the breach could become subject to WTO scrutiny, through the usual WTO dispute settlement provisions (provided provision is made for this when inserting a social clause). As a result of dispute settlement proceedings, the DSB could, at the request of the complaining party, recommend that retaliatory trade measures be taken against the offending country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312647", "title": "Social partners", "text": "Social partners\n\nSocial partners are groups that cooperate in working relationships to achieve a mutually agreed upon goal, typically to the benefit of all involved groups. Examples of social partners include employers, employees, trade unions, government, etc.\n\nThe concept of social partners arose in Europe in part from the disorder following the Industrial Revolution. Article 152 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) states:\n\nThe Union recognizes and promotes the role of the social partners at its level, taking into account the diversity of national systems. It shall facilitate dialogue between the social partners, respecting their autonomy.\n\nThis article forms part of the Primary Law of the European Union (EU).\n\nSocial partners have a vital role to play in reaching out to workers and owners of enterprises and in particular those of SMEs and the informal economy, and in general, increasing the representation of their membership to ensure deeper and broader benefits of association, representation and leadership, including in the field of public policy advocacy, its formulation and implementation.\n\nWith the approaching of globalization, companies must bear more pressure from the competitive between countries, more issues coming up such as the environment issue, the society problem and the income distribution problem after the globalization.\n\nAt the same time, new technology had replaced the status of traditional industries that cause structural unemployment to amount of the Low-skill labors.\n\nAlso the relationship between employee and employer becomes more complicated as the atypical employment turns into mainstream in the employment market. Because of these circumstances, the relationship between labor and employer has become more like partners. And this new idea of social partners had taken shape through the International Labor Organization (ILO1) and Europe social partnership system.\n\nBut there are quite few research and example about social partners in the US，the reason is that noun ”social partner” come up after WW2, that made European understand the importance of peace in every way, this new concept helped Europe rebuild the economy after the damage of war.\n\nThere is an inextricable connection between social partners and social dialogue, but what makes a good social dialogue?\n\nThe Treaty of Lisbon (Article 152 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU) recognises the role of the social partners in labour relations and European social dialogue. They represent their members during consultations with the Commission and the negotiation of collective agreements. They also sit with the European Economic and Social Committee, alongside other organisations representing civil society. The social partners play a key role in implementing the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs, by launching projects and initiatives at European and national level.\n\nEuropean social partners have had a considerable influence on the preparation of the following Commission proposals:\n\nThe role of governments and social partners in keeping older workers in the labour market. In view of Poland’s ranking as lowest in the EU professional activity indicators for people aged 45+, the government and social partners see the need for actions boosting occupational development of this group. Poland has a universal plan called ‘Generations’ Solidarity: Actions for Increasing Occupational Activity of People Aged 50+’, developed within the social dialogue institutions. So far it has been implemented through legislation, most importantly with regard to the pension system, and specifically raising and equalising the statutory retirement age for men and women and restricting access to early retirement schemes. Very few actions revolve around improving the quality of work of older workers.\n\nLabor Foundation, which was founded in April 2007 under the tripartite consensus on the importance of social partners' autonomous contribution to a more stable and advanced labor relations, is one and the only public institution that is engaged in the programs and activities to promote the labor relations in Korea. The programs and activities of the Foundation, which are all designed to help and guide social partners to work together with responsibility and for their common benefits, include: financial assistance for social partnership education and joint programs; workplace innovation consulting to increase competitiveness at workplace; employment generation, by creating selective worktime jobs, improving the long work practice and promoting flexible work schemes; outplacement services for retirees in their 40s or older; counseling and education to prevent and remedy unreasonable discrimination in employment; and international exchanges in the field of labor relations.\n\n"}
{"id": "53775460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53775460", "title": "Sten Allan Olsson", "text": "Sten Allan Olsson\n\nSten Allan Olsson (28 October 1916 – 12 July 2013) was a Swedish billionaire businessman, the founder, CEO and owner of Stena Sphere.\n\nSten Allan Olsson was born on 28 October 1916, on Donso, in the Gothenburg archipelago, the son of a schooner owner and captain. He was educated at Ljungskile Folk High School, followed by a commercial college in Gothenburg.\n\nOlsson started a Gothenburg metals and rubber trading company in 1939, at the start of the Second World War, and moved into freight shipping. He founded the ferry company Stena Line in 1962initially on the Gothenburg-Skagen route.\n\nHe died on 12 July 2013.\n\nHe married Birgit Andersson in 1944, and they had three children.\n"}
{"id": "48566641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48566641", "title": "Stone industry", "text": "Stone industry\n\nStone industry refers to the part of the primary sector of the economy, similar to the mining industry, but concerned with excavations of stones, in particular granite, marble, slate and sandstone. Other products of the industry include crushed stone and dimension stone.\n\nStone industry is one of the oldest in the world. Creation of stone tools (microliths industry) in the region of South Africa has been dated to about 60,000-70,000 years ago. Granite and marble mining existing as far back as Ancient Egypt. Crushed stone was used extensively by the first great road building civilizations, such as Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "36561378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36561378", "title": "The Federation of Private Entrepreneurs of La Paz", "text": "The Federation of Private Entrepreneurs of La Paz\n\nThe Federation of Private Entrepreneurs of La Paz (Federación de Empresarios Privados de la Paz, FEPLP), is a civil association, independent and autonomous, that represents all the private business in the Department of La Paz, Bolivia. A non-profit organization, the Federation of Private Entrepreneurs of La Paz was founded on November 25, 1993, as a result of the necessity to protect and represent private entrepreneurs and their chambers in La Paz, as well as to promote economic and social development in La Paz.\n\nAs a membership organization, FEPLP's lobby and advocacy efforts are on behalf of private chambers and business associations. \nSince March 24, 2011, the President of the Federation of Private Entrepreneurs of La Paz has been Dr. Luis Urquizo Valdivia, and the current Executive Director is Soraya Fernández Jáurgeui. President Urquizo's priorities involve increasing private sector participation in the development of La Paz, as well as looking for public and private partnerships to achieve this goal.\n\nThe FEPLP's mission is to group and lead business organizations in the Department of La Paz, offer support, and represent their interests through the creation of initiatives that promote the environment for economic growth.\n\n2012 FEPLP affiliates include:\n\n2013 FEPLP affiliates include:\n\nIn 2011, the FEPLP was part of the jury panel for the Business Award \"La Paz - Leader\" 2011 \"Promoting productivity and business competitiveness.\"\n\nFrom 2011 to 2012, the FELPLP worked on the initiative Forum for the Development of the Department of La Paz, A partnership with government entities, foundations, and other organizations to undertake and design actions to articulate all different levels of government and public entities, and to prioritize actions that would lead to the development of La Paz. The main participants were: the Association of Organizations of Ecological Producers of Bolivia (la Asociación de Organizaciones de Productores Ecológicos de Bolivia, AOPEB), the Joint Committee of Campesino Economic Organizations (Coordinadora Integral de Organizaciones Económicas Campesinas, CIOEC), the Federation of Private Entrepreneurs of La Paz (FEPLP), the government of La Paz, the Jubilee Foundation, the University of San Andrés (Universidad de San Andrés), and the Autonomous Government of the Municipality of La Paz (Gobierno Autónomo Municipal de La Paz, GAMLP),). The FEPLP then coordinated roundtables to further discuss the topics concluded at the Forum. The priority areas taken into consideration were energy, tourism, textiles, water, organic food production, and the importance of improving productive supply chains.\n\nSome of the sponsors of the Forum were the Embassy of Denmark, PNUD Art Bolivia, Al Invest IV Region Andina, and National Chamber of Commerce, Bolivia.\n\n"}
{"id": "24319139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24319139", "title": "The Social Network", "text": "The Social Network\n\nThe Social Network is a 2010 American biographical drama film directed by David Fincher and written by Aaron Sorkin. Adapted from Ben Mezrich's 2009 book \"The Accidental Billionaires: The Founding of Facebook, a Tale of Sex, Money, Genius and Betrayal\", the film portrays the founding of social networking website Facebook and the resulting lawsuits. It stars Jesse Eisenberg as founder Mark Zuckerberg, along with Andrew Garfield as Eduardo Saverin, Justin Timberlake as Sean Parker, and Armie Hammer as Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss. Neither Zuckerberg nor any other Facebook staff were involved with the project, although Saverin was a consultant for Mezrich's book. The film was released in the United States by Columbia Pictures on October 1, 2010.\n\n\"The Social Network\" garnered considerable acclaim, with critics praising its direction, screenplay, acting, editing and score. The film appeared on 78 critics' Top 10 lists for 2010; of those, 22 had the film in their number-one spot, the most of any film in its year. The film was also chosen by the National Board of Review as the best film of 2010.\n\nAt the 83rd Academy Awards, the film received eight nominations, including for Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Actor for Eisenberg, and won three: Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Score, and Best Film Editing. The film also received awards for Best Motion Picture – Drama, Best Director, Best Screenplay, and Best Original Score at the 68th Golden Globe Awards. In 2016 it was voted 27th among 100 films considered the best of the 21st century by 117 film critics from around the world.\n\nIn October 2003, 19-year-old Harvard University student Mark Zuckerberg is dumped by his girlfriend Erica Albright. Returning to his dorm, Zuckerberg writes an insulting entry about Albright on his LiveJournal blog and then creates a campus website called Facemash by hacking into college databases to steal photos of female students, then allowing site visitors to rate their attractiveness. After traffic to the site crashes parts of Harvard's computer network, Zuckerberg is given six months of academic probation. However, Facemash's popularity attracts the attention of Harvard upperclassmen and twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and their business partner Divya Narendra. The trio invites Zuckerberg to work on Harvard Connection, a social network featuring the exclusive nature of Harvard students and aimed at dating.\n\nAfter agreeing to work on the Winklevoss twins' concept, Zuckerberg approaches his friend Eduardo Saverin with an idea for what he calls \"Thefacebook\", an online social networking website that would be exclusive to Ivy League students. Saverin provides $1,000 in seed funding, allowing Mark to build the website, which quickly becomes popular. When they learn of \"Thefacebook\", the Winklevoss twins and Narendra are incensed, believing that Zuckerberg stole their idea while keeping them deliberately in the dark by stalling on developing the Harvard Connection website. They raise their complaint with Harvard President Larry Summers, who is dismissive and sees no value in either disciplinary action or \"Thefacebook\" website itself.\n\nSaverin and Zuckerberg meet fellow student Christy Lee, who asks them to \"Facebook me\", a phrase which impresses both of them. As \"Thefacebook\" grows in popularity, Zuckerberg extends the network to Yale University, Columbia University and Stanford University. Lee arranges for Saverin and Zuckerberg to meet Napster co-founder Sean Parker, who presents a \"billion-dollar\" vision for the company that impresses Zuckerberg. He also suggests dropping \"The\" from \"Thefacebook\", just calling it \"Facebook\". At Parker's suggestion, the company moves to Palo Alto, with Saverin remaining in New York to work on business development. After Parker promises to expand Facebook to two continents, Zuckerberg invites him to live at the house he is using as company headquarters.\n\nWhile competing in the Henley Royal Regatta for Harvard against the Hollandia Roeiclub, the Winklevoss twins discover that Facebook has expanded to Oxford, Cambridge and LSE, and decide to sue the company for theft of intellectual property. Meanwhile, Saverin objects to Parker making business decisions for Facebook and freezes the company's bank account in the resulting dispute. He later relents when Zuckerberg reveals that they have secured $500,000 from angel investor Peter Thiel. However, Saverin becomes enraged when he discovers that the new investment deal allows his share of Facebook to be diluted from 34% to 0.03%, while maintaining the ownership percentage of all other parties. He confronts Zuckerberg and Parker, and Saverin vows to sue Zuckerberg for all the company's shares before being ejected from the building. Subsequently, Saverin's name is removed from the masthead as co-founder. Later, a cocaine possession incident involving Parker and his attempt to place the blame on Saverin finally convinces Zuckerberg to cut ties with him.\n\nThroughout the film, the narrative is intercut with scenes from depositions taken in the Winklevoss twins' and Saverin's respective lawsuits against Zuckerberg and Facebook. The Winklevoss twins claim that Zuckerberg stole their idea, while Saverin claims his shares of Facebook were unfairly diluted when the company was incorporated. At the end, Marylin Delpy, a junior lawyer for the defense, informs Zuckerberg that they will settle with Saverin, since the sordid details of Facebook's founding and Zuckerberg's own callous attitude will make him highly unsympathetic to a jury. After everyone leaves, Zuckerberg is shown sending a friend request to Albright on Facebook and then refreshing the webpage every few seconds as he waits for her response.\n\nThe epilogue states that Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss received a settlement of $65 million, signed a non-disclosure agreement, and rowed in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, placing sixth; Eduardo Saverin received a settlement of an unknown amount and his name was restored to the Facebook masthead as a co-founder; the website has over 500 million members in 207 countries and is valued at $25 billion; and Mark Zuckerberg is the world's youngest self-made billionaire.\n\nScreenwriter Aaron Sorkin said, \"What attracted me to [the film project] had nothing to do with Facebook. The invention itself is as modern as it gets, but the story is as old as storytelling; the themes of friendship, loyalty, jealousy, class and power. [...] I got a 14-page book proposal that Ben Mezrich had written for his publisher for a book he was going to call \"The Accidental Billionaires\". The publisher was simultaneously shopping it around for a film sale. That's how it wound up in my hands. I was reading it and somewhere on page three I said yes. It was the fastest I said yes to anything. But Ben hadn't written the book yet, and I assumed that Sony was going to want me to wait for Ben to write the book, and I would start a year from now. They wanted me to start right away. Ben and I were kind of doing our research at the same time, sort of along parallel lines.\"\n\nHowever, according to Sorkin, Mezrich did not send him material from his book as he wrote it: \"Two or three times we'd get together. I'd go to Boston, or we'd meet in New York and kind of compare notes and share information, but I didn't see the book until he was done with it. By the time I saw the book, I was probably 80 percent done with the screenplay.\" Sorkin elaborated:\nCasting began in the summer of 2009, with Jesse Eisenberg, Justin Timberlake and Andrew Garfield cast in the film. Jonah Hill was also in contention for Timberlake's role, but, director David Fincher passed on him. In October 2009, Brenda Song, Rooney Mara, Armie Hammer, Shelby Young, and Josh Pence were cast. Max Minghella and Dakota Johnson were also confirmed to star in the film. In a 2009 interview with \"The Baltimore Sun\", Eisenberg said, \"Even though I've gotten to be in some wonderful movies, this character seems so much more overtly insensitive in so many ways that seem more real to me in the best way. I don't often get cast as insensitive people, so it feels very comfortable: fresh and exciting, as if you never have to worry about the audience. Not that I worry about the audience anyway – it should be just the furthest thing from your mind. \"The Social Network\" is the biggest relief I've ever had in a movie\".\n\nPrincipal photography began in October 2009 in Cambridge, Massachusetts.<ref name=\"/Film-2009-10-20\">Fischer, Russ (October 20, 2009). \"Casting Notes: Selena Gomez in Teen Rom Com; The Social Network Gets New Kids; The Whistleblower Gets Proven Talent\". \"/Film\". Retrieved October 20, 2009.</ref> Scenes were filmed around the campuses of two Massachusetts prep schools, Phillips Academy and Milton Academy. Additional scenes were filmed on the campus of Wheelock College, which was set up to be Harvard's campus. (Harvard has turned down most requests for on-location filming ever since the filming of \"Love Story\" (1970), which caused significant physical damage to the campus.) Filming took place on the Keyser and Wyman quadrangles in the Homewood campus of Johns Hopkins University from November 2–4, which also doubled for Harvard in the film. The first scene in the film, where Zuckerberg is with his girlfriend, took 99 takes to finish. The film was shot on the Red One digital cinema camera. The rowing scenes with the Winklevoss brothers were filmed at Community Rowing Inc. in Newton, Massachusetts and at the Henley Royal Regatta. Although a significant portion of the latter half of the film is set in Silicon Valley, the filmmakers opted to shoot those scenes in Los Angeles and Pasadena. Miniature faking process was used in a sequence showing a rowing event at the Henley Royal Regatta.\n\nArmie Hammer, who portrayed the Winklevoss twins, acted alongside body double Josh Pence while his scenes were filmed. His face was later digitally grafted onto Pence's face during post-production, while other scenes used split-screen photography. Pence was concerned about having no face time during the role, but after consideration thought of the role as a \"no-brainer\". He also appears in a cameo role elsewhere in the film. Hammer states that director David Fincher \"likes to push himself and likes to push technology\" and is \"one of the most technologically minded guys I've ever seen.\" This included sending the actors to \"twin boot camp\" for 10 months to learn everything about the Winklevosses.\n\nCommunity Rowing Inc. held a casting call and a tryout for 20 rowing extras; some were graduates from Harvard, Northeastern University, Boston University, George Washington University, and Trinity College, as well as local club rowers from Union Boat Club and Riverside Boat Club. None of the cast rowing extras for the Henley Royal Regatta racing scene appeared in the film; filming for the race was originally planned to take place in Los Angeles, but Fincher decided to film in New England during production.\n\nDavid Fincher hired Loyola Marymount coach Dawn Reagan to help train Josh Pence and Armie Hammer. While Hammer was new to the sport, Pence rowed previously at Dartmouth College.\n\nThe indoor rowing scene was filmed at Boston University's indoor rowing tanks. All of BU's blue oars in the scene were repainted to Harvard's crimson color for filming. Dan Boyne was the official rowing consultant for the film both in the US and the UK.\n\nOn June 1, 2010, it was announced that Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross would score the film. The soundtrack was released September 28 in various formats under the Null Corporation label. Leading up to the release of the soundtrack, a free five-track EP was made available for download. The White Stripes' song \"Ball and Biscuit\" can be heard in the opening of the film and The Beatles' song \"Baby, You're a Rich Man\" concludes the film. Neither song appears on the soundtrack.\n\nReznor and Ross won the award for Best Original Score at the 2011 Golden Globe Awards, as well as the 2011 Academy Award for Best Original Score.\n\nThe first theatrical poster was released on June 18, 2010. The film's first teaser trailer was released on June 25, 2010. The second teaser was released on July 8. The full length theatrical trailer debuted on July 16, 2010, which plays an edited version of the song \"Creep\", originally by Radiohead, covered by the Belgian choir group Scala & Kolacny Brothers. The trailer was then shown in theaters, prior to the films \"Inception\", \"Dinner for Schmucks\", \"Salt\", \"Easy A\", \"The Virginity Hit\", and \"The Other Guys\". The theatrical trailer, put together by Mark Woollen & Associates, won the Grand Key Art award at the 2011 Key Art Awards, sponsored by The Hollywood Reporter, and was also featured on \"The Film Informant\"s Perfect 10 Trailers in 2010.\n\n\"The Social Network\" was released on DVD and Blu-ray January 11, 2011. In its first week of release, DVD sales totaled $13,470,305 and it was the number-one-sold DVD of the week. The DVD includes an audio commentary with director David Fincher, and a second commentary with writer Aaron Sorkin and the cast. The Blu-ray and two-disc DVD releases include the commentaries, along with a feature length documentary, \"How Did They Ever Make a Movie of Facebook?\", featurettes, \"Angus Wall, Kirk Baxter and Ren Klyce on Post\", \"Trent Reznor, Atticus Ross and David Fincher on the Score\", \"In the Hall of the Mountain King: Reznor's First Draft\", \"Swarmatron\", \"Jeff Cronenweth and David Fincher on the Visuals\", and a Ruby Skye VIP Room: Multi-Angle Scene Breakdown feature.\n\nDuring its opening weekend in the United States, the film debuted at No. 1, grossing $22.4 million in 2,771 theaters. The film retained the top spot in its second weekend, dropping only 31.2%, breaking \"Inception\"s 32.0% record as the smallest second weekend drop for any number-one film of 2010, while being the third-smallest overall behind \"Secretariat\"'s 25.1% drop and \"Tooth Fairy\"'s 28.6% drop. At the end of its theatrical run, the film grossed $97 million in the United States and $128 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $224.9 million.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 96% based on 300 reviews, with an average rating of 9/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Impeccably scripted, beautifully directed, and filled with fine performances, \"The Social Network\" is a riveting, ambitious example of modern filmmaking at its finest.\" On Metacritic, the film holds a score of 95 out of 100, based on 42 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\" and making it one of the site's highest-rated movies of all time. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", giving it four stars and naming it the best film of the year, wrote: \"David Fincher's film has the rare quality of being not only as smart as its brilliant hero, but in the same way. It is cocksure, impatient, cold, exciting and instinctively perceptive.\" Peter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" gave the film his first full four-star rating of the year and said: \"\"The Social Network\" is the movie of the year. But Fincher and Sorkin triumph by taking it further. Lacing their scathing wit with an aching sadness, they define the dark irony of the past decade.\" \"The Harvard Crimson\" review called it \"flawless\" and gave it five stars. Quentin Tarantino listed \"The Social Network\" as one of his favorite 20 movies of the year, second to \"Toy Story 3\".\n\nJoe Morgenstern in \"The Wall Street Journal\" praised the film as exhilarating but noted: \"The biographical part takes liberties with its subject. Aaron Sorkin based his screenplay on a contentious book, Ben Mezrich's \"The Accidental Billionaires\", so everything that's seen isn't necessarily to be believed.\"\n\nThe film won Best Picture from the National Board of Review, National Society of Film Critics, New York Film Critics Circle, and Los Angeles Film Critics Association, making it only the third film in history—after \"Schindler's List\" (1993) and \"L.A. Confidential\" (1997)—to sweep the \"Big Four\" critics awards. The film also won the \"Hollywood Ensemble Award\" from the Hollywood Film Awards. \"The Social Network\" appeared on 78 critics' top 10 lists for 2010; of those critics 22 had the film in their number one spot.\n\nIn August 2016, \"The Social Network\" was voted the 27th-best film of the 21st century by the BBC, as voted on by 177 film critics from around the world.\n\n\"The Social Network\" appeared on over 70 critics' top-ten lists of the best films of 2010. Over a dozen publications ranked the film first in their lists, including the British film magazine \"Sight & Sound\".\n\n\"The Social Network\" won the Best Motion Picture – Drama Golden Globe at the 68th Golden Globe Awards on January 16, 2011. The film also won the awards for Best Director, Best Screenplay, and Best Original Score, making it the film with the most wins of the night.\n\nThe film was nominated for seven British Academy Film Awards, including Best Film, Best Actor in a Leading Role (Jesse Eisenberg), Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Andrew Garfield), and Rising Star Award (Andrew Garfield). It won three for Best Editing, Adapted Screenplay, and Best Direction on February 13, 2011.\n\n\"The Social Network\" received nominations for eight Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Cinematography, Best Director, Best Film Editing, Best Original Score, Best Sound Mixing, and Best Adapted Screenplay. It won three for Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Score, and Best Film Editing at the 83rd Academy Awards on February 27, 2011.\n\nThe script was leaked online in July 2009. In November 2009, executive producer Kevin Spacey said, \"\"The Social Network\" is probably going to be a lot funnier than people might expect it to be.\" \"The Cardinal Courier\" stated that the film was about \"greed, obsession, unpredictability and sex\" and asked \"although there are over 500 million Facebook users, does this mean Facebook can become a profitable blockbuster movie?\"\n\nAt the D8 conference hosted by D: All Things Digital on June 2, 2010, host Kara Swisher told Zuckerberg she knew he was not happy with \"The Social Network\" being based on him, to which he replied, \"I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive.\" Zuckerberg stated to Oprah Winfrey that the drama and partying of the film is mostly fiction, explaining \"this is my life, so I know it's not so dramatic,\" and that he spent most of the past six years focusing, working hard, and coding Facebook. Speaking to an audience at Stanford University, Zuckerberg stated that the film portrayed his motivations for creating Facebook inaccurately; instead of an effort to \"get girls\", he says he created the site because he enjoys \"building things\". However, he added that the film accurately depicted his real-life wardrobe, saying, \"It's interesting the stuff that they focused on getting right—like every single shirt and fleece they had in that movie is actually a shirt or fleece that I own.\"\n\nFacebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz called the film a \"dramatization of history ... it is interesting to see my past rewritten in a way that emphasizes things that didn't matter, (like the Winklevosses, who I've still never even met and had no part in the work we did to create the site over the past 6 years) and leaves out things that really did (like the many other people in our lives at the time, who supported us in innumerable ways)\". According to Moskovitz:\nCo-founder Eduardo Saverin said of the film, \"[...] the movie was clearly intended to be entertainment and not a fact-based documentary.\"\n\nSorkin has stated that \"I don't want my fidelity to be to the truth; I want it to be to storytelling. What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy's sake, and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good?\"\n\nJournalist Jeff Jarvis acknowledged the film was \"well-crafted\" but called it \"the anti-social movie\", objecting to Sorkin's decision to change various events and characters for dramatic effect, and dismissing it as \"the story that those who resist the change society is undergoing want to see.\" Technology broadcaster Leo Laporte concurred, calling the film \"anti-geek and misogynistic\". Sorkin responded to these allegations by saying, \"I was writing about a very angry and deeply misogynistic group of people\".\n\nAndrew Clark of \"The Guardian\" wrote that \"there's something insidious about this genre of [docudrama] scriptwriting,\" wondering if \"a 26-year-old businessman really deserves to have his name dragged through the mud in a murky mixture of fact and imagination for the general entertainment of the movie-viewing public?\" Clark added, \"I'm not sure whether Mark Zuckerberg is a punk, a genius or both. But I won't be seeing \"The Social Network\" to find out.\"\n\nSeveral noteworthy tech journalists and bloggers voiced their opinions of how the film portrays its real-life characters. Mashable founder and CEO Pete Cashmore, blogging for CNN, said: \"If the Facebook founder [Zuckerberg] is concerned about being represented as anything but a genius with an industrious work ethic, he can breathe a sigh of relief.\" Jessi Hempel, a technology writer for \"Fortune\" who says she's known Zuckerberg \"for a long time\", wrote of the film:\nHarvard Law School professor Lawrence Lessig wrote in \"The New Republic\" that Sorkin's screenplay does not acknowledge the \"real villain\" of the story:\nIn an onstage discussion with \"The Huffington Post\" co-founder Arianna Huffington, during Advertising Week 2010 in New York, Facebook's Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said she had seen the film and it was \"very Hollywood\" and mainly \"fiction\". \"In real life, he [Zuckerberg] was just sitting around with his friends in front of his computer, ordering pizza,\" she declared. \"Who wants to go see that for two hours?\"\n\nDivya Narendra said that he was \"initially surprised\" to see himself portrayed by the non-Indian actor Max Minghella, but also admitted that the actor did a \"good job in pushing the dialogue forward and creating a sense of urgency in what was a very frustrating period.\"\nSince its release, \"The Social Network\" has been cited as inspiring involvement in start-ups and social media. Bob Lefsetz has stated that: \"watching this movie makes you want to run from the theatre, grab your laptop and build your own empire,\" noting that \"The Social Network\" has helped fuel an emerging perception that \"techies have become the new rock stars.\" This has led Dave Knox to comment that: \"fifteen years from now we might just look back and realize this movie inspired our next great generation of entrepreneurs.\" After seeing the movie, Zuckerberg was quoted as saying he is \"interested to see what effect \"The Social Network\" has on entrepreneurship\", noting that he gets \"lots of messages from people who claim that they have been very much inspired... to start their own company.\" Saverin echoed these sentiments, stating that the film may inspire \"countless others to create and take that leap to start a new business.\" In one such instance, the co-founders of Wall Street Magnate confirmed that they were inspired to create the fantasy trading community after watching \"The Social Network\".\n\nFollowing his success with the film, Sorkin became attached to another project about a technology company, writing the script for the 2015 biopic \"Steve Jobs\", which used a similar format. Another Facebook film may be produced, as the company's COO, Sheryl Sandberg, has signed a deal with Sony Pictures Entertainment to develop her new book \"Lean In: Women, Work and the Will to Lead\", into a movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "54099674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54099674", "title": "Vasily Anisimov", "text": "Vasily Anisimov\n\nVasily V. Anisimov (born 1951/52) is a Russian billionaire businessman. In the 1990s, he owned banks and aluminium plants, sold everything in 2000, and is now a property developer.\n\nGordeev has a bachelor's degree from the Alma-Ata Institute of National Economy.\n\nFrom 1986 to 1989, he served as general director of a Moscow-based hardware wholesaler, Roskhoztorg. In the 1990s, he owned banks and aluminium plants - Metalloinvest. In 2000, after being sued by fellow Russian billionaire Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Anisimv liquidated most of his assets. By 2004 Anismimov re-emerged as a co-owner of Metalloinvest with fellow billionaires Alisher Usmanov and Andrei Skoch. From here he switched form Russian mines to realeste. His wealth comes from investments in Metalloinvest and his real estate company Coalco.\n\nHe is a friend of Arkady Rotenberg, and is the head of the Russian Judo Federation.\n\nAnisimov was married to Galina Anisimova, and has four children. Their daughter, Galina, was murdered with her husband, Alexander Nalimov, both found \"bound and killed execution-style,\" in their Ekaterinburg home in 2000. Another daughter, Galina's half-sister, Anna Anisimova, is a socialite and ex-model who has been called the \"Russian-American Paris Hilton\".\n\nHe lives in Moscow, Russia, and sometimes in New York.\n"}
