{"id": "4451282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4451282", "title": "AP European History", "text": "AP European History\n\nAdvanced Placement European History (commonly known as AP Modern European History, AP Euro, AP European, APEH, or MEHAP), is a course and examination offered by the College Board through the Advanced Placement Program. This course is for high school students who are interested in a first year university level course in European history. The course surveys European history from between 1300-1450 CE to the present, focusing on religious, social, economic, and political themes. In the United States, the course is usually taken in sophomore year of high school.\n\nThe AP exam for European History is divided into two sections, comprising 55 multiple-choice questions (with four answer choices), three short-answer questions, and two essay responses (one thematic Long Essay Question (LEQ) and one Document Based Question (DBQ)). The multiple-choice and short-answer sections are to be completed in 55 minutes and 40 minutes respectively. The essay section is to be completed in 100 minutes (including the mandated 15-minute reading period). The DBQ is graded out of 7 points and the LEQ is graded out of 6 points. This new structure went into effect beginning Fall 2017.\nThe exam grade is weighted evenly between the multiple-choice and free-response sections. The DBQ is weighted at 25 percent while the FRQ/LEQ is weighted at 15 percent. The Short Answer is weighted 20 percent. Approximately half of the multiple-choice questions cover the period from 1450 to the French Revolution and Napoleonic era, and half cover the period from the French Revolution and Napoleonic era to the present, evenly divided between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. About one-third of the questions focus on cultural and intellectual themes, one-third on political and diplomatic themes, and one-third on social and economic themes. Many questions draw on knowledge of more than one chronological period or theme. Although this is the general trend based on past AP Exams, it is not mandated that the exam follow this format. In recent years and present, the multiple choice portion is Stimulus Based, meaning the students are given an excerpt of a speech or writing, photograph, or painting, to analyze and answer questions and/or give presentations on the given info.\n\nThe Free Response sections of the test offer some choice. \n\nAP European History Test Grade Distribution: \n"}
{"id": "3394874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3394874", "title": "A Proper Dialogue Between A Gentleman and a Husbandman", "text": "A Proper Dialogue Between A Gentleman and a Husbandman\n\nA proper dyaloge betwene a Gentilman and a Husbandman eche complaynynge to other their miserable calamite through the ambicion of the clergye was printed in two versions by \"Hans Luft\" (i.e., Johannes Hoochstraten) of Antwerp in 1529. This book appears in Robert Steele's list of books banned in Henry's reign; Steele refers to it as \"Dialogue between gentleman & plowman.\" While clearly in the Piers Plowman Tradition, Piers does not appear as a character. The first version has a 684 line acrostic poem opening and dialogue that was written in the sixteenth-century invention. Following this, there is an authentic, late fourteenth-century Lollard anti-clerical text, written ca. 1375-85. (It is included in Matthew, ed. \"The English Works of Wyclif\".) To all this, the second version adds another prose tract probably from the late fifteenth century, which argues in favor of vernacular Bible translations. \n\nThe dialogue begins with the gentleman lamenting how his class has fallen low and is unable to help the poor, because long ago they were fooled into giving their lands and wealth to the church. The husbandman then argues for confiscating the possessions of a corrupt clergy which preys upon the poor. Belief in purgatory and indulgences is singled out as the favorite swindle of the clergy, who are ultimately to blame for rising rents. The husbandman suggests taking the issue to parliament (the 1529 \"Reformation Parliament\"), but the gentleman demurs, alluding to Simon Fish's \"A Supplicacyon for the Beggers\" and Thomas More's rebuttal and defense of purgatory in \"The Supplycacyon of Soulys\" (1529). King John, Sir John Oldcastle, and Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester are listed as good men who came to bad ends for opposing the clergy. Then there is an allusion to the burning of William Tyndale's New Testament in 1526 and Henry V's persecution of Lollards. To defend Lutherans and opposition to clerical possessions from charges of \"newfangledness,\" the husbandman introduces what he takes to be a century-old treatise; i.e., a late-fourteenth-century Lollard text that supports disendowment of the clergy and barring them from secular offices. (The husbandman places it in the time of Richard II.)\n\nThe \"I\" of the husbandman at this point leads into the \"I\" of the Lollard treatise which is attached at the end with little done to make a transition; it is revised to function as contemporary anti-Roman polemic. \n\n"}
{"id": "23470871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23470871", "title": "Alexander Victorovich Fedorov", "text": "Alexander Victorovich Fedorov\n\nAlexander Victorovich Fedorov (; born November 4, 1954) is a Russian scientist, teacher, media education specialist, film critic. He completed his Ph.D. dissertation about media education (1993) at the Russian Academy of Education (Moscow).\nHe was the president of the Russian Association for Film and Media Education (2003-2014) and deputy director of the Anton Chekhov Taganrog Institute (Russia) (2005-2018) and main editor of journal \"Media Education\" (‘Mediaobrazovanie’). He is also a member of the Russian Academy of Film Arts and Science, Russian Union of Filmmakers, CIFEJ and FIPRESCI. Alexander Fedorov is the author of 20 books on media education and media literacy and more than 400 articles (in Russian, English, Canadian, French, German, and Norwegian media studies and media literacy journals).\n\nSince 1997 he has received scientific research grants on media culture and media education from the President of the Russian Federation, Russian Foundation for Humanities, Russian Ministry of Education, Kennan Institute (US), IREX (US), MacArthure Foundation (US), DAAD (Germany), and others.\nHe was a guest professor and research fellow in Norway Association for Media Education, Oslo (1995), Central European University (Budapest, 1998, 2006), Kassel University (2000), Maison des sciences de l'homme, Paris (2002, 2009), Kennan Institute, Washington D.C. (2003), Humboldt University, Berlin (2005), University of Mainz (2010), Johann Wolfgang Goethe Universität Frankfurt am Main (2014).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45294132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45294132", "title": "All India Bakchod Knockout", "text": "All India Bakchod Knockout\n\nAll India Bakchod Knockout (abbreviated as AIB Knockout) was a roast comedy show that was held in Mumbai by All India Bakchod starring Ranveer Singh and Arjun Kapoor as the roast and Karan Johar as the host (roast master). The show, uploaded on YouTube, went viral on the site.\n\nThe event was held at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium in Worli, Mumbai on December 20 2014 and was uploaded on YouTube on 28 January 2015. The episode, (popularly known as webisode) was made available in three parts; where at the beginning of the first part; viewers are warned about the nature of the video.\n\nOn 3 February 2015, AIB Knockout was removed from YouTube by AIB team due to the mounting controversies surrounding the show. While removing, AIB team tweeted, \"Have taken down AIB Knockout for now. We will speak soon.\"\n\n\nMumbai Police received several complaints about the usage of abusive language. FIR was then filed by Mumbai Police against the organisers for the show without acquiring any performance license. Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis warned about action if the show was found to be vulgar and in violation of law. FIR was filed against 14 persons, including filmmaker Karan Johar and actors Arjun Kapoor and Ranveer Singh in Pune as well. A Mumbai court also directed the police to file FIRs against the organisers and prominent participants mainly citing the violation of the Indian Penal code dealing with conspiracy and obscenity.\n\nAamir Khan criticized Karan Johar (despite having not seen the video) for participating in the show, adding especially when his mother was sitting in first row. Sanjay Leela Bhansali also expressed his disapproval to the video as he found it \"cheap\" and wanted the actors (participants) to behave themselves.\n\nWith the show containing several religious comments, AIB Team also offered an unconditional apology to the archdiocese and the Christian community for any offence caused to religious sentiments. The apology came after several Christian organisations filling complaints against the use of insulting jokes on Jesus Christ and Catholics.\n\nBollywood director producer Karan Johar on 9 January 2016, received summons from Mumbai Police to record his statement in connection with the event that took place in December 2014.\n\nMany came out in support of AIB and the notion of free speech. The makers of \"Qtiyapa\", The Viral Fever, in a video on YouTube aired their opinions on online democracy, freedom of expression and audiences' liberty to choose from variety of content online.\n\nRussell Peters, a Canadian comedian of Indian origin, panned Aamir Khan's criticism to the roast. In reply to Aamir Khan, Peters quoted, \"Seriously, who is he, the so-called artist, to say that he found it violent and that AIB and rest involved should have been responsible? He did not even see it! Someone please ask him to shut up and take care of his own business. He is an actor; not even a real artist. He goes in front of the camera and reads out lines that someone else has written. Then, he is giving his opinion about something that is honest!\"\n\nKhan further clarified his stand on this issue; he said, “I respect everyone’s opinion. For me freedom of speech and expression is an important right and should be protected at all costs. But I also feel that freedom comes with responsibility which should be self-exercised. It’s unfortunate that caught between the rightwing fascists and the ‘no-holdsbarred’ faction, the moderates are in danger of losing their voice. I’m aware that if you sign up for the Roast, you sign up to insult each other. But, in this case, even those who hadn’t signed up were being targeted, like Farida Jalal, Reema Lagoo and a beautiful, young girl I love dearly.\nThe young girl whom I’ve known since she was a kid, was the butt of racist and sexist jokes. She did not even know that a live audience was watching this and couldn’t protect herself. That is unfair! This is what I meant when I described the show as “violent”. Films which depict violence are fictional but this young girl is real. So my reaction was more emotional than moralistic.\nI wasn’t objecting to the use of expletives or adult jokes. If two consenting adults wish to insult each other, that’s their problem. But you can’t go around attacking anyone you feel like. That is no different from the physical violence we see around us and object to. And when someone uses the words “shut up”, it makes me believe that these people are certainly not a part of the group that is for freedom of speech.”\nIn response to Aamir Khan's statements, Anurag Kashyap posted a link on his Facebook page where Aamir had spoken in defence of the DK Bose song from the movie Delhi Belly (produced by Aamir Khan). Aamir had said, \"I have already informed my audiences that it is an adult film. Please do not go with your kids and those who have a problem with this kind of language shouldn't come either. I try my best to inform the audiences before-hand. Then they can decide themselves. If the audience is adult, they can decide themselves. So from my end I do all these things for my fans.\"\n\nShah Rukh Khan has stated that he would not like to take sides saying that humour has always been a tricky thing and it always generates different reactions.\n\nComedian-actor Vir Das along with the Comedy Nights With Kapil stars Sunil Grover (popularly known as Gutthi) and Kiku Sharda (known as Palak) have condemned the filing of an FIR against the celebs or makers involved in it. All three of them are of the opinion that the humour may be good or bad, but the freedom of expression should not be restricted.\n\nAs per a report on Bollywoodlife.com, Sanjay Leela Bhansali is not very happy about Ranveer Singh's involvement in the AIB Knockout roast. Ranveer, who was then shooting for Sanjay Leela Bhansali's Bajirao Mastani, got an earful from the director, the report stated. Further to the report, Bhansali also advised Ranveer to behave like Salman and Shah Rukh and not like a 'chichora'\n"}
{"id": "2482029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2482029", "title": "Artistic merit", "text": "Artistic merit\n\nArtistic merit is the perceived artistic quality or value of any given work of art, music, film, literature, sculpture or painting. The term can be applied to a classic or masterpiece which has stood the test of time and is part of the Western canon.\n\nIn Western Europe from around 1500 to 1870, artistic merit was closely related to faithfulness to nature—though not always as literal, precise transcription but certainly as an interest in some aspect of the physical world—and sometimes narrative coherence (in many cases history painting was considered the highest form of art) and obedience to classical precepts. Such criteria, however, waned with the rise of modernism and later postmodernism.\n\nThere is no correlation between literary merit and product sales. The erotic romance \"Fifty Shades of Grey\" has sold over 125 million copies worldwide despite being poorly written according to literary critics. In comparison, John Steinbeck's \"The Grapes of Wrath\" has been critically acclaimed for its symbolism, plot, and character development, and has sold only approximately 14 million copies. \n\nAt the trial of James Joyce's novel \"Ulysses\" in 1921, though not required to do so by law, Quinn the lawyer for the defence decided to produce three literary experts to attest to the literary merits of \"Ulysses\", as well as \"The Little Review\"’s broader reputation. The first expert witness was Philip Moeller, of the Theatre Guild, who interpreted \"Ulysses\" using the Freudian method of unveiling the subconscious mind, which prompted one of the judges to ask him to \"speak in a language that the court could understand\". The next witness was Scofield Thayer, editor of \"The Dial\", another literary magazine of the time, who \"was forced to admit that if he had had the desire to publish \"Ulysses\" he would have consulted a lawyer first—and not published it\". The final witness was English novelist, lecturer, and critic John Cowper Powys, who declared that \"Ulysses\" was a \"beautiful piece of work in no way capable of corrupting the minds of young girls\".\n\nThere was another important obscenity trial in 1960 Britain, when the full unexpurgated edition of D. H. Lawrence's \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\" was published by Penguin Books. The trial of Penguin under the Obscene Publications Act 1959 was a major public event and a test of the new obscenity law. The 1959 act (introduced by Roy Jenkins) had made it possible for publishers to escape conviction if they could show that a work was of literary merit. Several academic critics and experts of diverse kinds, including E. M. Forster, Helen Gardner, Richard Hoggart, Raymond Williams and Norman St John-Stevas, were called as witnesses, and the verdict, delivered on 2 November 1960, was \"not guilty\". This resulted in a far greater degree of freedom for publishing explicit sexual material in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "40790868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40790868", "title": "Breath of Life (language restoration workshops)", "text": "Breath of Life (language restoration workshops)\n\nIn Breath of Life workshops, linguists help members of Native American communities access and use archival material documenting their ancestral languages in the interest of language restoration and revitalization. \nThis is particularly important for the many communities that no longer have fluent speakers of their languages. They are held biannually in June at U.C. Berkeley and at the University of Oklahoma in Norman in even-numbered years, and at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC in odd-numbered years. The project was initiated in the early 1990s at the University of California Berkeley, in part by linguist Leanne Hinton.\n\nThe Oklahoma Breath of Life, Silent No More Workshop is held at the Sam Noble Oklahoma Museum of Natural History on the campus of the University of Oklahoma in Norman, Oklahoma. It has been funded by grants from the \"Documenting Endangered Languages\" (DEL) program, a joint project of the National Science Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities.\n\nThe purpose of the workshop is to teach participants how to:\n\n\nThe Breath of Life Institute has been supported by \"Documenting Endangered Languages\" (DEL), a joint program of the National Science Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Partners include the National Museum of Natural History, The National Museum of the American Indian, the Library of Congress, The Endangered Language Fund, and Yale University.\n"}
{"id": "4675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4675", "title": "British Museum", "text": "British Museum\n\nThe British Museum, located in the Bloomsbury area of London, in the United Kingdom, is a public institution dedicated to human history, art and culture. Its permanent collection numbers some 8 million works, and is among the largest and most comprehensive in existence having been widely sourced during the era of the British Empire, and documenting the story of human culture from its beginnings to the present. It is the first national public museum in the world. \n\nThe British Museum was established in 1753, largely based on the collections of the Irish physician and scientist Sir Hans Sloane. It first opened to the public on 15 January 1759, in Montagu House, on the site of the current building. Its expansion over the following two and a half centuries was largely a result of expanding British colonisation and has resulted in the creation of several branch institutions, the first being the British Museum (Natural History) – now the Natural History Museum – in 1881.\n\nIn 1973, the British Library Act 1972 detached the library department from the British Museum, but it continued to host the now separated British Library in the same Reading Room and building as the museum until 1997. The museum is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, and as with all other national museums in the United Kingdom it charges no admission fee, except for loan exhibitions.\n\nIts ownership of some of its most famous objects originating in other countries is disputed and remains the subject of international controversy, most notably in the case of the Parthenon Marbles.\n\nAlthough today principally a museum of cultural art objects and antiquities, the British Museum was founded as a \"universal museum\". Its foundations lie in the will of the Irish physician and naturalist Sir Hans Sloane (1660–1753), who was a London-based doctor and scientist from Ulster. During the course of his lifetime Sloane gathered an enviable collection of curiosities and, not wishing to see his collection broken up after death, he bequeathed it to King George II, for the nation, for a sum of £20,000.\n\nAt that time, Sloane's collection consisted of around 71,000 objects of all kinds including some 40,000 printed books, 7,000 manuscripts, extensive natural history specimens including 337 volumes of dried plants, prints and drawings including those by Albrecht Dürer and antiquities from Sudan, Egypt, Greece, Rome, the Ancient Near and Far East and the Americas.\n\nOn 7 June 1753, King George II gave his Royal Assent to the Act of Parliament which established the British Museum. The British Museum Act 1753 also added two other libraries to the Sloane collection, namely the Cottonian Library, assembled by Sir Robert Cotton, dating back to Elizabethan times, and the Harleian Library, the collection of the Earls of Oxford. They were joined in 1757 by the \"Old Royal Library\", now the Royal manuscripts, assembled by various British monarchs. Together these four \"foundation collections\" included many of the most treasured books now in the British Library including the Lindisfarne Gospels and the sole surviving manuscript of \"Beowulf\".\n\nThe British Museum was the first of a new kind of museum – national, belonging to neither church nor king, freely open to the public and aiming to collect everything. Sloane's collection, while including a vast miscellany of objects, tended to reflect his scientific interests. The addition of the Cotton and Harley manuscripts introduced a literary and antiquarian element and meant that the British Museum now became both National Museum and library.\n\nThe body of trustees decided on a converted 17th-century mansion, Montagu House, as a location for the museum, which it bought from the Montagu family for £20,000. The trustees rejected Buckingham House, on the site now occupied by Buckingham Palace, on the grounds of cost and the unsuitability of its location.\n\nWith the acquisition of Montagu House, the first exhibition galleries and reading room for scholars opened on 15 January 1759. At this time, the largest parts of collection were the library, which took up the majority of the rooms on the ground floor of Montagu House and the natural history objects, which took up an entire wing on the second state storey of the building. In 1763, the trustees of the British Museum, under the influence of Peter Collinson and William Watson, employed the former student of Carl Linnaeus, Daniel Solander to reclassify the natural history collection according to the Linnaean system, thereby making the Museum a public centre of learning accessible to the full range of European natural historians. In 1823, King George IV gave the King's Library assembled by George III, and Parliament gave the right to a copy of every book published in the country, thereby ensuring that the museum's library would expand indefinitely. During the few years after its foundation the British Museum received several further gifts, including the Thomason Collection of Civil War Tracts and David Garrick's library of 1,000 printed plays. The predominance of natural history, books and manuscripts began to lessen when in 1772 the museum acquired for £8,410 its first significant antiquities in Sir William Hamilton's \"first\" collection of Greek vases.\n\nFrom 1778, a display of objects from the South Seas brought back from the round-the-world voyages of Captain James Cook and the travels of other explorers fascinated visitors with a glimpse of previously unknown lands. The bequest of a collection of books, engraved gems, coins, prints and drawings by Clayton Mordaunt Cracherode in 1800 did much to raise the museum's reputation; but Montagu House became increasingly crowded and decrepit and it was apparent that it would be unable to cope with further expansion.\n\nThe museum's first notable addition towards its collection of antiquities, since its foundation, was by Sir William Hamilton (1730–1803), British Ambassador to Naples, who sold his collection of Greek and Roman artefacts to the museum in 1784 together with a number of other antiquities and natural history specimens. A list of donations to the museum, dated 31 January 1784, refers to the Hamilton bequest of a \"Colossal Foot of an Apollo in Marble\". It was one of two antiquities of Hamilton's collection drawn for him by Francesco Progenie, a pupil of Pietro Fabris, who also contributed a number of drawings of Mount Vesuvius sent by Hamilton to the Royal Society in London.\n\nIn the early 19th century the foundations for the extensive collection of sculpture began to be laid and Greek, Roman and Egyptian artefacts dominated the antiquities displays. After the defeat of the French campaign in the Battle of the Nile, in 1801, the British Museum acquired more Egyptian sculptures and in 1802 King George III presented the Rosetta Stone – key to the deciphering of hieroglyphs. Gifts and purchases from Henry Salt, British consul general in Egypt, beginning with the Colossal bust of Ramesses II in 1818, laid the foundations of the collection of Egyptian Monumental Sculpture. Many Greek sculptures followed, notably the first purpose-built exhibition space, the Charles Towneley collection, much of it Roman Sculpture, in 1805. In 1806, Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin, ambassador to the Ottoman Empire from 1799 to 1803 removed the large collection of marble sculptures from the Parthenon, on the Acropolis in Athens and transferred them to the UK. In 1816 these masterpieces of western art, were acquired by The British Museum by Act of Parliament and deposited in the museum thereafter. The collections were supplemented by the Bassae frieze from Phigaleia, Greece in 1815. The Ancient Near Eastern collection also had its beginnings in 1825 with the purchase of Assyrian and Babylonian antiquities from the widow of Claudius James Rich.\n\nIn 1802 a buildings committee was set up to plan for expansion of the museum, and further highlighted by the donation in 1822 of the King's Library, personal library of King George III's, comprising 65,000 volumes, 19,000 pamphlets, maps, charts and topographical drawings. The neoclassical architect, Sir Robert Smirke, was asked to draw up plans for an eastern extension to the museum \"... for the reception of the Royal Library, and a Picture Gallery over it ...\" and put forward plans for today's quadrangular building, much of which can be seen today. The dilapidated Old Montagu House was demolished and work on the King's Library Gallery began in 1823. The extension, the East Wing, was completed by 1831. However, following the founding of the National Gallery, London in 1824, the proposed Picture Gallery was no longer needed, and the space on the upper floor was given over to the Natural history collections.\n\nThe museum became a construction site as Sir Robert Smirke's grand neo-classical building gradually arose. The King's Library, on the ground floor of the East Wing, was handed over in 1827, and was described as one of the finest rooms in London. Although it was not fully open to the general public until 1857, special openings were arranged during The Great Exhibition of 1851. In spite of dirt and disruption the collections grew, outpacing the new building.\n\nIn 1840, the museum became involved in its first overseas excavations, Charles Fellows's expedition to Xanthos, in Asia Minor, whence came remains of the tombs of the rulers of ancient Lycia, among them the Nereid and Payava monuments. In 1857, Charles Newton was to discover the 4th-century BC Mausoleum of Halikarnassos, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. In the 1840s and 1850s the museum supported excavations in Assyria by A.H. Layard and others at sites such as Nimrud and Nineveh. Of particular interest to curators was the eventual discovery of Ashurbanipal's great library of cuneiform tablets, which helped to make the museum a focus for Assyrian studies.\n\nSir Thomas Grenville (1755–1846), a trustee of the British Museum from 1830, assembled a library of 20,240 volumes, which he left to the museum in his will. The books arrived in January 1847 in twenty-one horse-drawn vans. The only vacant space for this large library was a room originally intended for manuscripts, between the Front Entrance Hall and the Manuscript Saloon. The books remained here until the British Library moved to St Pancras in 1998.\n\nThe opening of the forecourt in 1852 marked the completion of Robert Smirke's 1823 plan, but already adjustments were having to be made to cope with the unforeseen growth of the collections. Infill galleries were constructed for Assyrian sculptures and Sydney Smirke's Round Reading Room, with space for a million books, opened in 1857. Because of continued pressure on space the decision was taken to move natural history to a new building in South Kensington, which would later become the British Museum of Natural History.\n\nRoughly contemporary with the construction of the new building was the career of a man sometimes called the \"second founder\" of the British Museum, the Italian librarian Anthony Panizzi. Under his supervision, the British Museum Library (now part of the British Library) quintupled in size and became a well-organised institution worthy of being called a national library, the largest library in the world after the National Library of Paris. The quadrangle at the centre of Smirke's design proved to be a waste of valuable space and was filled at Panizzi's request by a circular Reading Room of cast iron, designed by Smirke's brother, Sydney Smirke.\n\nUntil the mid-19th century, the museum's collections were relatively circumscribed but, in 1851, with the appointment to the staff of Augustus Wollaston Franks to curate the collections, the museum began for the first time to collect British and European medieval antiquities, prehistory, branching out into Asia and diversifying its holdings of ethnography. A real coup for the museum was the purchase in 1867, over French objections, of the Duke of Blacas's wide-ranging and valuable collection of antiquities. Overseas excavations continued and John Turtle Wood discovered the remains of the 4th century BC Temple of Artemis at Ephesos, another Wonder of the Ancient World.\n\nThe natural history collections were an integral part of the British Museum until their removal to the new British Museum of Natural History in 1887, nowadays the Natural History Museum. With the departure and the completion of the new White Wing (fronting Montague Street) in 1884, more space was available for antiquities and ethnography and the library could further expand. This was a time of innovation as electric lighting was introduced in the Reading Room and exhibition galleries.\n\nThe William Burges collection of armoury was bequeathed to the museum in 1881. In 1882, the museum was involved in the establishment of the independent Egypt Exploration Fund (now Society) the first British body to carry out research in Egypt. A bequest from Miss Emma Turner in 1892 financed excavations in Cyprus. In 1897 the death of the great collector and curator, A. W. Franks, was followed by an immense bequest of 3,300 finger rings, 153 drinking vessels, 512 pieces of continental porcelain, 1,500 netsuke, 850 inro, over 30,000 bookplates and miscellaneous items of jewellery and plate, among them the Oxus Treasure.\n\nIn 1898 Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild bequeathed the Waddesdon Bequest, the glittering contents from his New Smoking Room at Waddesdon Manor. This consisted of almost 300 pieces of \"objets d'art et de vertu\" which included exquisite examples of jewellery, plate, enamel, carvings, glass and maiolica, among them the Holy Thorn Reliquary, probably created in the 1390s in Paris for John, Duke of Berry. The collection was in the tradition of a schatzkammer or treasure house such as those formed by the Renaissance princes of Europe. Baron Ferdinand's will was most specific, and failure to observe the terms would make it void, the collection should be\n\nBy the last years of the 19th century, The British Museum's collections had increased to the extent that its building was no longer large enough. In 1895 the trustees purchased the 69 houses surrounding the museum with the intention of demolishing them and building around the west, north and east sides of the museum. The first stage was the construction of the northern wing beginning 1906.\n\nAll the while, the collections kept growing. Emil Torday collected in Central Africa, Aurel Stein in Central Asia, D.G. Hogarth, Leonard Woolley and T. E. Lawrence excavated at Carchemish. Around this time, the American collector and philanthropist J Pierpont Morgan donated a substantial number of objects to the museum, including William Greenwell's collection of prehistoric artefacts from across Europe which he had purchased for £10,000 in 1908. Morgan had also acquired a major part of Sir John Evans's coin collection, which was later sold to the museum by his son John Pierpont Morgan Junior in 1915. In 1918, because of the threat of wartime bombing, some objects were evacuated to a Postal Tube Railway at Holborn, the National Library of Wales (Aberystwyth) and a country house near Malvern. On the return of antiquities from wartime storage in 1919 some objects were found to have deteriorated. A conservation laboratory was set up in May 1920 and became a permanent department in 1931. It is today the oldest in continuous existence. In 1923, the British Museum welcomed over one million visitors.\n\nNew mezzanine floors were constructed and book stacks rebuilt in an attempt to cope with the flood of books. In 1931, the art dealer Sir Joseph Duveen offered funds to build a gallery for the Parthenon sculptures. Designed by the American architect John Russell Pope, it was completed in 1938. The appearance of the exhibition galleries began to change as dark Victorian reds gave way to modern pastel shades. However, in August 1939, due to the imminence of war and the likelihood of air-raids, the Parthenon Sculptures, along with the museum's most valued collections, were dispersed to secure basements, country houses, Aldwych Underground station, the National Library of Wales and a quarry. The evacuation was timely, for in 1940 the Duveen Gallery was severely damaged by bombing. Meanwhile, prior to the war, the Nazis had sent a researcher to the British Museum for several years with the aim of \"compiling an anti-Semitic history of Anglo-Jewry.\" After the war, the museum continued to collect from all countries and all centuries: among the most spectacular additions were the 2600 BC Mesopotamian treasure from Ur, discovered during Leonard Woolley's 1922–34 excavations. Gold, silver and garnet grave goods from the Anglo-Saxon ship burial at Sutton Hoo (1939) and late Roman silver tableware from Mildenhall, Suffolk (1946). The immediate post-war years were taken up with the return of the collections from protection and the restoration of the museum after the Blitz. Work also began on restoring the damaged Duveen Gallery.\n\nIn 1953, the museum celebrated its bicentenary. Many changes followed: the first full-time in house designer and publications officer were appointed in 1964, A Friends organisation was set up in 1968, an Education Service established in 1970 and publishing house in 1973. In 1963, a new Act of Parliament introduced administrative reforms. It became easier to lend objects, the constitution of the board of trustees changed and the Natural History Museum became fully independent. By 1959 the Coins and Medals office suite, completely destroyed during the war, was rebuilt and re-opened, attention turned towards the gallery work with new tastes in design leading to the remodelling of Robert Smirke's Classical and Near Eastern galleries. In 1962 the Duveen Gallery was finally restored and the Parthenon Sculptures were moved back into it, once again at the heart of the museum.\n\nBy the 1970s the museum was again expanding. More services for the public were introduced; visitor numbers soared, with the temporary exhibition \"Treasures of Tutankhamun\" in 1972, attracting 1,694,117 visitors, the most successful in British history. In the same year the Act of Parliament establishing the British Library was passed, separating the collection of manuscripts and printed books from the British Museum. This left the museum with antiquities; coins, medals and paper money; prints & drawings; and ethnography. A pressing problem was finding space for additions to the library which now required an extra 1 miles of shelving each year. The Government suggested a site at St Pancras for the new British Library but the books did not leave the museum until 1997.\n\nThe departure of the British Library to a new site at St Pancras, finally achieved in 1998, provided the space needed for the books. It also created the opportunity to redevelop the vacant space in Robert Smirke's 19th-century central quadrangle into the Queen Elizabeth II Great Court – the largest covered square in Europe – which opened in 2000. The ethnography collections, which had been housed in the short-lived Museum of Mankind at 6 Burlington Gardens from 1970, were returned to new purpose-built galleries in the museum in 2000.\n\nThe museum again readjusted its collecting policies as interest in \"modern\" objects: prints, drawings, medals and the decorative arts reawakened. Ethnographical fieldwork was carried out in places as diverse as New Guinea, Madagascar, Romania, Guatemala and Indonesia and there were excavations in the Near East, Egypt, Sudan and the UK. The Weston Gallery of Roman Britain, opened in 1997, displayed a number of recently discovered hoards which demonstrated the richness of what had been considered an unimportant part of the Roman Empire. The museum turned increasingly towards private funds for buildings, acquisitions and other purposes.\n\nToday the museum no longer houses collections of natural history, and the books and manuscripts it once held now form part of the independent British Library. The museum nevertheless preserves its universality in its collections of artefacts representing the cultures of the world, ancient and modern. The original 1753 collection has grown to over thirteen million objects at the British Museum, 70 million at the Natural History Museum and 150 million at the British Library.\n\nThe Round Reading Room, which was designed by the architect Sydney Smirke, opened in 1857. For almost 150 years researchers came here to consult the museum's vast library. The Reading Room closed in 1997 when the national library (the British Library) moved to a new building at St Pancras. Today it has been transformed into the Walter and Leonore Annenberg Centre.\n\nWith the bookstacks in the central courtyard of the museum empty, the demolition for Lord Foster's glass-roofed Great Court could begin. The Great Court, opened in 2000, while undoubtedly improving circulation around the museum, was criticised for having a lack of exhibition space at a time when the museum was in serious financial difficulties and many galleries were closed to the public. At the same time the African collections that had been temporarily housed in 6 Burlington Gardens were given a new gallery in the North Wing funded by the Sainsbury family – with the donation valued at £25 million.\n\nAs part of its very large website, the museum has the largest online database of objects in the collection of any museum in the world, with 2,000,000 individual object entries, 650,000 of them illustrated, online at the start of 2012. There is also a \"Highlights\" database with longer entries on over 4,000 objects, and several specialised online research catalogues and online journals (all free to access). In 2013 the museum's website received 19.5 millions visits, an increase of 47% from the previous year.\n\nIn 2013 the museum received a record 6.7 million visitors, an increase of 20% from the previous year. Popular exhibitions including \"Life and Death in Pompeii and Herculaneum\" and \"Ice Age Art\" are credited with helping fuel the increase in visitors. Plans were announced in September 2014 to recreate the entire building along with all exhibits in the video game \"Minecraft\" in conjunction with members of the public.\n\nThe British Museum is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport through a three-year funding agreement. Its head is the Director of the British Museum. The British Museum was run from its inception by a 'principal librarian' (when the book collections were still part of the museum), a role that was renamed 'director and principal librarian' in 1898, and 'director' in 1973 (on the separation of the British Library).\n\nA board of 25 trustees (with the director as their accounting officer for the purposes of reporting to Government) is responsible for the general management and control of the museum, in accordance with the British Museum Act 1963 and the Museums and Galleries Act 1992. Prior to the 1963 Act, it was chaired by the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Lord Chancellor and the Speaker of the House of Commons. The board was formed on the museum's inception to hold its collections in trust for the nation without actually owning them themselves, and now fulfil a mainly advisory role. Trustee appointments are governed by the regulatory framework set out in the code of practice on public appointments issued by the Office of the Commissioner for Public Appointments.\n\nThe Greek Revival façade facing Great Russell Street is a characteristic building of Sir Robert Smirke, with 44 columns in the Ionic order high, closely based on those of the temple of Athena Polias at Priene in Asia Minor. The pediment over the main entrance is decorated by sculptures by Sir Richard Westmacott depicting \"The Progress of Civilisation\", consisting of fifteen allegorical figures, installed in 1852.\n\nThe construction commenced around the courtyard with the East Wing (The King's Library) in 1823–1828, followed by the North Wing in 1833–1838, which originally housed among other galleries a reading room, now the Wellcome Gallery. Work was also progressing on the northern half of the West Wing (The Egyptian Sculpture Gallery) 1826–1831, with Montagu House demolished in 1842 to make room for the final part of the West Wing, completed in 1846, and the South Wing with its great colonnade, initiated in 1843 and completed in 1847, when the Front Hall and Great Staircase were opened to the public. The museum is faced with Portland stone, but the perimeter walls and other parts of the building were built using Haytor granite from Dartmoor in South Devon, transported via the unique Haytor Granite Tramway.\n\nIn 1846 Robert Smirke was replaced as the museum's architect by his brother Sydney Smirke, whose major addition was the Round Reading Room 1854–1857; at in diameter it was then the second widest dome in the world, the Pantheon in Rome being slightly wider.\n\nThe next major addition was the White Wing 1882–1884 added behind the eastern end of the South Front, the architect being Sir John Taylor.\n\nIn 1895, Parliament gave the museum trustees a loan of £200,000 to purchase from the Duke of Bedford all 69 houses which backed onto the museum building in the five surrounding streets – Great Russell Street, Montague Street, Montague Place, Bedford Square and Bloomsbury Street. The trustees planned to demolish these houses and to build around the west, north and east sides of the museum new galleries that would completely fill the block on which the museum stands. The architect Sir John James Burnet was petitioned to put forward ambitious long-term plans to extend the building on all three sides. Most of the houses in Montague Place were knocked down a few years after the sale. Of this grand plan only the Edward VII galleries in the centre of the North Front were ever constructed, these were built 1906–14 to the design by J.J. Burnet, and opened by King George V and Queen Mary in 1914. They now house the museum's collections of Prints and Drawings and Oriental Antiquities. There was not enough money to put up more new buildings, and so the houses in the other streets are nearly all still standing.\n\nThe Duveen Gallery, sited to the west of the Egyptian, Greek & Assyrian sculpture galleries, was designed to house the Elgin Marbles by the American Beaux-Arts architect John Russell Pope. Although completed in 1938, it was hit by a bomb in 1940 and remained semi-derelict for 22 years, before reopening in 1962. Other areas damaged during World War II bombing included: in September 1940 two unexploded bombs hit the Edward VII galleries, the King's Library received a direct hit from a high explosive bomb, incendiaries fell on the dome of the Round Reading Room but did little damage; on the night of 10 to 11 May 1941 several incendiaries fell on the south-west corner of the museum, destroying the book stack and 150,000 books in the courtyard and the galleries around the top of the Great Staircase – this damage was not fully repaired until the early 1960s.\n\nThe Queen Elizabeth II Great Court is a covered square at the centre of the British Museum designed by the engineers Buro Happold and the architects Foster and Partners. The Great Court opened in December 2000 and is the largest covered square in Europe. The roof is a glass and steel construction, built by an Austrian steelwork company, with 1,656 uniquely shaped panes of glass. At the centre of the Great Court is the Reading Room vacated by the British Library, its functions now moved to St Pancras. The Reading Room is open to any member of the public who wishes to read there.\n\nToday, the British Museum has grown to become one of the largest museums in the world, covering an area of over 92,000 m (990,000 sq. ft). In addition to 21,600 m (232,000 sq. ft) of on-site storage space, and 9,400 m (101,000 sq. ft) of external storage space. Altogether the British Museum showcases on public display less than 1% of its entire collection, approximately 50,000 items. There are nearly one hundred galleries open to the public, representing of exhibition space, although the less popular ones have restricted opening times. However, the lack of a large temporary exhibition space has led to the £135 million World Conservation and Exhibition Centre to provide one and to concentrate all the museum's conservation facilities into one Conservation Centre. This project was announced in July 2007, with the architects Rogers Stirk Harbour and Partners. It was granted planning permission in December 2009 and was completed in time for the Viking exhibition in March 2014.\n\nBlythe House in West Kensington is used by the museum for off-site storage of small and medium-sized artefacts, and Franks House in East London is used for storage and work on the \"Early Prehistory\" – Palaeolithic and Mesolithic – and some other collections.\n\nThe British Museum houses the world's largest and most comprehensive collection of Egyptian antiquities (with over 100,000 pieces) outside the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. A collection of immense importance for its range and quality, it includes objects of all periods from virtually every site of importance in Egypt and the Sudan. Together, they illustrate every aspect of the cultures of the Nile Valley (including Nubia), from the Predynastic Neolithic period (c. 10,000 BC) through to the Coptic (Christian) times (12th century AD), a time-span over 11,000 years.\n\nEgyptian antiquities have formed part of the British Museum collection ever since its foundation in 1753 after receiving 160 Egyptian objects from Sir Hans Sloane. After the defeat of the French forces under Napoleon at the Battle of the Nile in 1801, the Egyptian antiquities collected were confiscated by the British army and presented to the British Museum in 1803. These works, which included the famed Rosetta Stone, were the first important group of large sculptures to be acquired by the museum. Thereafter, the UK appointed Henry Salt as consul in Egypt who amassed a huge collection of antiquities, some of which were assembled and transported with great ingenuity by the famous Italian explorer Giovanni Belzoni. Most of the antiquities Salt collected were purchased by the British Museum and the Musée du Louvre.\n\nBy 1866 the collection consisted of some 10,000 objects. Antiquities from excavations started to come to the museum in the latter part of the 19th century as a result of the work of the Egypt Exploration Fund under the efforts of E.A. Wallis Budge. Over the years more than 11,000 objects came from this source, including pieces from Amarna, Bubastis and Deir el-Bahari. Other organisations and individuals also excavated and donated objects to the British Museum, including Flinders Petrie's Egypt Research Account and the British School of Archaeology in Egypt, as well as the Oxford University Expedition to Kawa and Faras in Sudan.\nActive support by the museum for excavations in Egypt continued to result in important acquisitions throughout the 20th century until changes in antiquities laws in Egypt led to the suspension of policies allowing finds to be exported, although divisions still continue in Sudan. The British Museum conducted its own excavations in Egypt where it received divisions of finds, including Asyut (1907), Mostagedda and Matmar (1920s), Ashmunein (1980s) and sites in Sudan such as Soba, Kawa and the Northern Dongola Reach (1990s). The size of the Egyptian collections now stand at over 110,000 objects.\n\nIn autumn 2001 the eight million objects forming the museum's permanent collection were further expanded by the addition of six million objects from the Wendorf Collection of Egyptian and Sudanese Prehistory. These were donated by Professor Fred Wendorf of Southern Methodist University in Texas, and comprise the entire collection of artefacts and environmental remains from his excavations at Prehistoric sites in the Sahara Desert between 1963 and 1997. Other fieldwork collections have recently come from Dietrich and Rosemarie Klemm (University of Munich) and William Adams (University of Kentucky).\n\nThe seven permanent Egyptian galleries at the British Museum, which include its largest exhibition space (Room 4, for monumental sculpture), can display only 4% of its Egyptian holdings. The second-floor galleries have a selection of the museum's collection of 140 mummies and coffins, the largest outside Cairo. A high proportion of the collection comes from tombs or contexts associated with the cult of the dead, and it is these pieces, in particular the mummies, that remain among the most eagerly sought-after exhibits by visitors to the museum.\n\nThough not a part of Ancient Egypt but rather part of the wider modern Egypt project, in May 2018, the British Museum added the boots of Egyptian footballer, Mo Salah. The boots were added to the Egypt collection because of his historical achievement of scoring 32 goals in a 38-game season.\n\nKey highlights of the collections include:\n\nPredynastic and Early Dynastic period (c. 6000 BC – c. 2690 BC)\n\nOld Kingdom (2690–2181 BC)\n\nMiddle Kingdom (2134–1690 BC)\n\nNew Kingdom (1549–1069 BC)\n\nThird Intermediate Period (1069–664 BC)\n\nLate Period (664–332 BC)\n\nPtolemaic dynasty (305–30 BC)\n\nRoman Period (30 BC-641 AD)\n\nThe British Museum has one of the world's largest and most comprehensive collections of antiquities from the Classical world, with over 100,000 objects. These mostly range in date from the beginning of the Greek Bronze Age (about 3200 BC) to the establishment of Christianity as the official religion of the Roman Empire, with the Edict of Milan under the reign of the Roman Emperor Constantine I in 313 AD. Archaeology was in its infancy during the nineteenth century and many pioneering individuals began excavating sites across the Classical world, chief among them for the museum were Charles Newton, John Turtle Wood, Robert Murdoch Smith and Charles Fellows.\n\nThe Greek objects originate from across the Ancient Greek world, from the mainland of Greece and the Aegean Islands, to neighbouring lands in Asia Minor and Egypt in the eastern Mediterranean and as far as the western lands of Magna Graecia that include Sicily and southern Italy. The Cycladic, Minoan and Mycenaean cultures are represented, and the Greek collection includes important sculpture from the Parthenon in Athens, as well as elements of two of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus and the Temple of Artemis at Ephesos.\n\nBeginning from the early Bronze Age, the department also houses one of the widest-ranging collections of Italic and Etruscan antiquities outside Italy, as well as extensive groups of material from Cyprus and non-Greek colonies in Lycia and Caria on Asia Minor. There is some material from the Roman Republic, but the collection's strength is in its comprehensive array of objects from across the Roman Empire, with the exception of Britain (which is the mainstay of the Department of Prehistory and Europe).\n\nThe collections of ancient jewellery and bronzes, Greek vases (many from graves in southern Italy that were once part of Sir William Hamilton's and Chevalier Durand's collections), Roman glass including the famous Cameo glass Portland Vase, Roman mosaics from Carthage and Utica in North Africa that were excavated by Nathan Davis, and silver hoards from Roman Gaul (some of which were bequeathed by the philanthropist and museum trustee Richard Payne Knight), are particularly important. Cypriot antiquities are strong too and have benefited from the purchase of Sir Robert Hamilton Lang's collection as well as the bequest of Emma Turner in 1892, which funded many excavations on the island. Roman sculptures (many of which are copies of Greek originals) are particularly well represented by the Townley collection as well as residual sculptures from the famous Farnese collection.\n\nObjects from the Department of Greece and Rome are located throughout the museum, although many of the architectural monuments are to be found on the ground floor, with connecting galleries from Gallery 5 to Gallery 23. On the upper floor, there are galleries devoted to smaller material from ancient Italy, Greece, Cyprus and the Roman Empire.\n\nKey highlights of the collections include:\n\nParthenon\n\nErechtheion\n\nTemple of Athena Nike\n\nTemple of Bassae\n\nMausoleum at Halicarnassus\n\nTemple of Artemis in Ephesus\n\nKnidos in Asia Minor\n\nXanthos in Asia Minor\n\nWider collection\n\nPrehistoric Greece and Italy (3300 BC – 8th century BC)\n\nEtruscan (8th century BC – 1st century BC)\n\nAncient Greece (8th century BC – 4th century AD)\n\nAncient Rome (1st century BC – 4th century AD)\n\nWith a collection numbering some 330,000 works, the British Museum possesses the world's largest and most important collection of Mesopotamian antiquities outside Iraq. A collection of immense importance, the holdings of Assyrian sculpture, Babylonian and Sumerian antiquities are among the most comprehensive in the world with entire suites of rooms panelled in alabaster Assyrian palace reliefs from Nimrud, Nineveh and Khorsabad.\n\nThe collections represent the civilisations of the ancient Near East and its adjacent areas. These cover Mesopotamia, Persia, the Arabian Peninsula, Anatolia, the Caucasus, parts of Central Asia, Syria, the Holy Land and Phoenician settlements in the western Mediterranean from the prehistoric period and include objects from the beginning of Islam in the 7th century.\n\nThe first significant addition of Mesopotamian objects was from the collection of Claudius James Rich in 1825. The collection was later dramatically enlarged by the excavations of A. H. Layard at the Assyrian sites of Nimrud and Nineveh between 1845 and 1851. At Nimrud, Layard discovered the North-West Palace of Ashurnasirpal II, as well as three other palaces and various temples. He later uncovered the Palace of Sennacherib at Nineveh with 'no less than seventy-one halls'. As a result, a large numbers of Lamassu's, palace reliefs, stelae, including the Black Obelisk of Shalmaneser III, were brought to the British Museum.\n\nLayard's work was continued by his assistant, Hormuzd Rassam and in 1852–1854 he went on to discover the North Palace of Ashurbanipal at Nineveh with many magnificent reliefs, including the famous \"Lion Hunt of Ashurbanipal\" and Lachish reliefs. He also discovered the Royal Library of Ashurbanipal, a large collection of cuneiform tablets of enormous importance that today number around 130,000 pieces. W. K. Loftus excavated in Nimrud between 1850 and 1855 and found a remarkable hoard of ivories in the Burnt Palace. Between 1878 and 1882 Rassam greatly improved the museum's holdings with exquisite objects including the Cyrus Cylinder from Babylon, the bronze gates from Balawat, important objects from Sippar, and a fine collection of Urartian bronzes from Toprakkale.\n\nIn the early 20th century excavations were carried out at Carchemish, Turkey by D. G. Hogarth and Leonard Woolley, the latter assisted by T. E. Lawrence. The Mesopotamian collections were greatly augmented by excavations in southern Iraq after the First World War. From Tell al-Ubaid came the bronze furnishings of a Sumerian temple, including life-sized lions and a panel featuring the lion-headed eagle Indugud found by H. R. Hall in 1919–24. Woolley went on to excavate Ur between 1922 and 1934, discovering the 'Royal Cemeteries' of the 3rd millennium BC. Some of the masterpieces include the 'Standard of Ur', the 'Ram in a Thicket', the 'Royal Game of Ur', and two bull-headed lyres. The department also has three diorite statues of the ruler Gudea from the ancient state of Lagash and a series of limestone kudurru or boundary stones from different locations across ancient Mesopotamia.\n\nAlthough the collections centre on Mesopotamia, most of the surrounding areas are well represented. The Achaemenid collection was enhanced with the addition of the Oxus Treasure in 1897 and objects excavated by the German scholar Ernst Herzfeld and the Hungarian-British explorer Sir Aurel Stein. Reliefs and sculptures from the site of Persepolis were donated by Sir Gore Ouseley in 1825 and the 5th Earl of Aberdeen in 1861. Moreover, the museum has been able to acquire one of the greatest assemblages of Achaemenid silverware in the world. The later Sasanian Empire is also well represented by ornate silver plates and cups, many representing ruling monarchs hunting lions and deer. Phoenician antiquities come from across the region, but the Tharros collection from Sardinia and the large number of Phoenician stelae from Carthage are outstanding. Another often overlooked highlight is Yemeni antiquities, the finest collection outside that country. Furthermore, the museum has a representative collection of Dilmun and Parthian material excavated from various burial mounds at the ancient sites of A'ali and Shakhura in Bahrain.\n\nFrom the modern state of Syria come almost forty funerary busts from Palmyra and a group of stone reliefs from the excavations of Max von Oppenheim at Tell Halaf that was purchased in 1920. More material followed from the excavations of Max Mallowan at Chagar Bazar and Tell Brak in 1935–1938 and from Woolley at Alalakh in the years just before and after the Second World War. Mallowan returned with his wife Agatha Christie to carry out further digs at Nimrud in the postwar period which secured many important artefacts for the museum. The collection of Palestinian material was strengthened by the work of Kathleen Kenyon at Jericho in the 1950s and the acquisition in 1980 of around 17,000 objects found at Lachish by the Wellcome-Marston expedition of 1932–1938. Archaeological digs are still taking place where permitted in the Middle East, and, depending on the country, the museum continues to receive a share of the finds from sites such as in Jordan.\n\nThe museum's collection of Islamic art, including archaeological material, numbers about 40,000 objects, one of the largest of its kind in the world. As such, it contains a broad range of pottery, paintings, tiles, metalwork, glass, seals, and inscriptions from across the Islamic world, from Spain in the west to India in the east. It is particularly famous for its collection of Iznik ceramics (the largest in the world), a highlight of which is the mosque lamp from the Dome of the Rock, mediaeval metalwork such as the Vaso Vescovali with its depictions of the Zodiac, a fine selection of astrolabes, and Mughal paintings and precious artwork including a large jade terrapin made for the Emperor Jahangir. Thousands of objects were excavated after the war by professional archaeologists at Iranian sites such as Siraf by David Whitehouse and Alamut Castle by Peter Willey. The collection was augmented in 1983 by the Godman bequest of Iznik, Hispano-Moresque and early Iranian pottery. Artefacts from the Islamic world are on display in Gallery 34 of the museum.\n\nA representative selection from the Department of Middle East, including the most important pieces, are on display in 13 galleries throughout the museum and total some 4,500 objects. A whole suite of rooms on the ground floor display the sculptured reliefs from the Assyrian palaces at Nineveh, Nimrud and Khorsabad, while 8 galleries on the upper floor hold smaller material from ancient sites across the Middle East. The remainder form the study collection which ranges in size from beads to large sculptures. They include approximately 130,000 cuneiform tablets from Mesopotamia.\n\nKey highlights of the collections include:\n\nNimrud:\nAssyrian palace reliefs from:\n\nSculptures:\n\nAssyrian palace reliefs and sculptures from:\n\nRoyal Library of Ashurbanipal:\n\n\n\n\nThe Department of Prints and Drawings holds the national collection of Western prints and drawings. It ranks as one of the largest and best print room collections in existence alongside the Albertina in Vienna, the Paris collections and the Hermitage. The holdings are easily accessible to the general public in the Study Room, unlike many such collections. The department also has its own exhibition gallery in Room 90, where the displays and exhibitions change several times a year.\n\nSince its foundation in 1808, the prints and drawings collection has grown to international renown as one of the richest and most representative collections in the world. There are approximately 50,000 drawings and over two million prints. The collection of drawings covers the period from the 14th century to the present, and includes many works of the highest quality by the leading artists of the European schools. The collection of prints covers the tradition of fine printmaking from its beginnings in the 15th century up to the present, with near complete holdings of most of the great names before the 19th century. Key benefactors to the department have been Clayton Mordaunt Cracherode, Richard Payne Knight, John Malcolm, Campbell Dodgson, César Mange de Hauke and Tomás Harris.\n\nThere are groups of drawings by Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, Michelangelo, (including his only surviving full-scale cartoon), Dürer (a collection of 138 drawings is one of the finest in existence), Peter Paul Rubens, Rembrandt, Claude and Watteau, and largely complete collections of the works of all the great printmakers including Dürer (99 engravings, 6 etchings and most of his 346 woodcuts), Rembrandt and Goya. More than 30,000 British drawings and watercolours include important examples of work by Hogarth, Sandby, Turner, Girtin, Constable, Cotman, Cox, Gillray, Rowlandson and Cruikshank, as well as all the great Victorians. There are about a million British prints including more than 20,000 satires and outstanding collections of works by William Blake and Thomas Bewick.. The great eleven volume Catalogue of Political and Personal Satires Preserved in the Department of Prints and Drawings in the British Museum compiled between 1870 and 1954 is the definitive reference work for the study of British Satirical prints. Over 500,000 objects from the department are now on the online collection database, many with high quality images. A 2011 donation of £1 million enabled the museum to acquire a complete set of Pablo Picasso's \"Vollard Suite\".\n\nThe Department of Britain, Europe and Prehistory is responsible for collections that cover a vast expanse of time and geography. It includes some of the earliest objects made by humans in east Africa over 2 million years ago, as well as Prehistoric and neolithic objects from other parts of the world; and the art and archaeology of Europe from the earliest times to the present day. Archeological excavation of prehistoric material took off and expanded considerably in the twentieth century and the department now has literally millions of objects from the Paleolithic and Mesolithic periods throughout the world, as well as from the Neolithic, Bronze Age and Iron age in Europe. Stone Age material from Africa has been donated by famous archaeologists such as Louis and Mary Leakey, and Gertrude Caton–Thompson. Paleolithic objects from the Sturge, Christy and Lartet collections include some of the earliest works of art from Europe. Many Bronze Age objects from across Europe were added during the nineteenth century, often from large collections built up by excavators and scholars such as Greenwell in Britain, Tobin and Cooke in Ireland, Lukis and de la Grancière in Brittany, Worsaae in Denmark, Siret at El Argar in Spain, and Klemm and Edelmann in Germany. A representative selection of Iron Age artefacts from Hallstatt were acquired as a result of the Evans/Lubbock excavations and from Giubiasco in Ticino through the Swiss National Museum.\n\nIn addition, the British Museum's collections covering the period AD 300 to 1100 are among the largest and most comprehensive in the world, extending from Spain to the Black Sea and from North Africa to Scandinavia; a representative selection of these has recently been redisplayed in a newly refurbished gallery. Important collections include Latvian, Norwegian, Gotlandic and Merovingian material from Johann Karl Bähr, Alfred Heneage Cocks, Sir James Curle and Philippe Delamain respectively. However, the undoubted highlight from the early mediaeval period are the magnificent items from the Sutton Hoo royal grave, generously donated to the nation by the landowner Edith Pretty. The department includes the national collection of horology with one of the most wide-ranging assemblage of clocks, watches and other timepieces in Europe, with masterpieces from every period in the development of time-keeping. Choice horological pieces came from the Morgan and Ilbert collections. The department is also responsible for the curation of Romano-British objects – the museum has by far the most extensive such collection in Britain and one of the most representative regional collections in Europe outside Italy. It is particularly famous for the large number of late Roman silver treasures, many of which were found in East Anglia, the most important of which is the Mildenhall Treasure. The museum purchased many Roman-British objects from the antiquarian Charles Roach Smith in 1856. These quickly formed the nucleus of the collection.\n\nObjects from the Department of Prehistory and Europe are mostly found on the upper floor of the museum, with a suite of galleries numbered from 38 to 51. Most of the collection is stored in its archive facilities, where it is available for research and study.\n\nKey highlights of the collections include:\n\nStone Age (c. 3.4 million years BC – c. 2000 BC)\n\nBronze Age (c. 3300 BC – c. 600 BC)\n\nIron Age (c. 600 BC – c. 1st century AD)\n\nRomano-British (43 AD – 410 AD)\n\nEarly Mediaeval (c. 4th century AD – c. 1000 AD)\n\nMediaeval (c. 1000 AD – c. 1500 AD)\n\nRenaissance to Modern (c. 1500 AD – present)\n\nThe many hoards of treasure include those of Mildenhall, Esquiline, Carthage, First Cyprus, Lampsacus, Water Newton, Hoxne, and Vale of York, (4th–10th centuries AD)\n\nThe scope of the Department of Asia is extremely broad; its collections of over 75,000 objects cover the material culture of the whole Asian continent (from East, South, Central and South-East Asia) and from the Neolithic up to the present day. Until recently, this department concentrated on collecting Oriental antiquities from urban or semi-urban societies across the Asian continent. Many of those objects were collected by colonial officers and explorers in former parts of the British Empire, especially the Indian subcontinent. Examples include the collections made by individuals such as Charles Stuart, James Prinsep, Charles Masson, Sir Alexander Cunningham, Sir Harold Deane and Sir John Marshall. A large number of Chinese antiquities were purchased from the Anglo-Greek banker George Eumorfopoulos in the 1930s. In the second half of the twentieth century, the museum greatly benefited from the bequest of the philanthropist PT Brooke Sewell, which allowed the department to purchase many objects and fill in gaps in the collection.\n\nIn 2004, the ethnographic collections from Asia were transferred to the department. These reflect the diverse environment of the largest continent in the world and range from India to China, the Middle East to Japan. Much of the ethnographic material comes from objects originally owned by tribal cultures and hunter-gatherers, many of whose way of life has disappeared in the last century. Particularly valuable collections are from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (much assembled by the British naval officer Maurice Portman), Sri Lanka (especially through the colonial administrator Hugh Nevill), Northern Thailand, south-west China, the Ainu of Hokaidu in Japan (chief among them the collection of the Scottish zoologist John Anderson), Siberia and the islands of South-East Asia, especially Borneo. The latter benefited from the purchase in 1905 of the Sarawak collection put together by Dr Charles Hose, as well as from other colonial officers such as Edward A Jeffreys. In addition, a unique and valuable group of objects from Java, including shadow puppets and a gamelan musical set, was assembled by Sir Stamford Raffles.\n\nThe principal gallery devoted to Asian art in the museum is Gallery 33 with its comprehensive display of Chinese, Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asian objects. An adjacent gallery showcases the Amaravati sculptures and monuments. Other galleries on the upper floors are devoted to its Japanese, Korean, painting and calligraphy, and Chinese ceramics collections.\n\nKey highlights of the collections include:\n\n\nEast Asia\n\nSouth Asia\n\nSouth-east Asia\n\nThe British Museum houses one of the world's most comprehensive collections of Ethnographic material from Africa, Oceania and the Americas, representing the cultures of indigenous peoples throughout the world. Over 350,000 objects spanning thousands of years tells the history of mankind from three major continents and many rich and diverse cultures; the collecting of modern artefacts is ongoing. Many individuals have added to the department's collection over the years but those assembled by Henry Christy, Harry Beasley and William Oldman are outstanding. Objects from this department are mostly on display in several galleries on the ground and lower floors. Gallery 24 displays ethnographic from every continent while adjacent galleries focus on North America and Mexico. A long suite of rooms (Gallery 25) on the lower floor display African art. There are plans in place to develop permanent galleries for showcasing art from Oceania and South America.\n\nAfrica\n\nThe Sainsbury African Galleries display 600 objects from the greatest permanent collection of African arts and culture in the world. The three permanent galleries provide a substantial exhibition space for the museum's African collection comprising over 200,000 objects. A curatorial scope that encompasses both archaeological and contemporary material, including both unique masterpieces of artistry and objects of everyday life. A great addition was material amassed by Sir Henry Wellcome, which was donated by the Wellcome Historical Medical Museum in 1954. Highlights of the African collection include objects found at megalithic circles in The Gambia, a dozen exquisite Afro-Portuguese ivories, a series of soapstone figures from the Kissi people in Sierra Leone and Liberia, Asante goldwork and regalia from Ghana including the Bowdich collection, the rare Akan Drum from the same region in west Africa, the Benin and Igbo-Ukwu bronze sculptures, the beautiful Bronze Head of Queen Idia, a magnificent brass head of a Yoruba ruler and quartz throne from Ife, a similar terracotta head from Iwinrin Grove near Ife, the Apapa Hoard from Lagos, southern Nigeria, an Ikom monolith from Cross River State, the Torday collection of central African sculpture, textiles and weaponry from the Kuba Kingdom including three royal figures, the unique Luzira Head from Uganda, processional crosses and other ecclesiastical and royal material from Gondar and Magdala, Ethiopia following the British Expedition to Abyssinia, excavated objects from Great Zimbabwe (that includes a unique soapstone, anthropomorphic figure) and satellite towns such as Mutare including a large hoard of Iron Age soapstone figures, a rare divining bowl from the Venda peoples and cave paintings and petroglyphs from South Africa.\n\nOceania\n\nThe British Museum's Oceanic collections originate from the vast area of the Pacific Ocean, stretching from Papua New Guinea to Easter Island, from New Zealand to Hawaii. The three main anthropological groups represented in the collection are Polynesia, Melanesia and Micronesia – Aboriginal art from Australia is considered separately in its own right. Metal working was not indigenous to Oceania before Europeans arrived, so many of the artefacts from the collection are made from stone, shell, bone and bamboo. Prehistoric objects from the region include a bird-shaped pestle and a group of stone mortars from Papua New Guinea. The British Museum is fortunate in having some of the earliest Oceanic and Pacific collections, many of which were put together by members of Cook's and Vancouver's expeditions or by colonial administrators such as Sir George Grey, Sir Frederick Broome and Arthur Gordon, before Western culture significantly impacted on indigenous cultures. The Wilson cabinet of curiosities from Palau is another example of pre-contact ware. The department has also benefited greatly from the legacy of pioneering anthropologists such as Bronisław Malinowski and Katherine Routledge. In addition, the Māori collection is the finest outside New Zealand with many intricately carved wooden and jade objects and the Aboriginal art collection is distinguished by its wide range of bark paintings, including two very early bark etchings collected by John Hunter Kerr. A poignant artefact is the wooden shield found near Botany Bay during Cook's first voyage in 1770. A particularly important group of objects was purchased from the London Missionary Society in 1911, that includes the unique statue of A'a from Rurutu Island, the rare idol from the isle of Mangareva and the Cook Islands deity figure. Other highlights include the huge Hawaiian statue of Kū-ka-ili-moku or god of war (one of three extant in the world) and the famous Easter Island statues Hoa Hakananai'a and Moai Hava.\n\nAmericas\nThe Americas collection mainly consists of 19th and 20th century items although the Paracas, Moche, Inca, Maya, Aztec, Taino and other early cultures are well represented. The Kayung totem pole, which was made in the late nineteenth century in the Queen Charlotte Islands, dominates the Great Court and provides a fitting introduction to this very wide-ranging collections that stretches from the very north of the North American continent where the Inuit population has lived for centuries, to the tip of South America where indigenous tribes have long thrived in Patagonia. Highlights of the collection include Aboriginal Canadian objects from Alaska and Canada collected by the 5th Earl of Lonsdale and the Marquis of Lorne, the Squier and Davis collection of prehistoric mound relics from North America, a selection of pottery vessels found in cliff-dwellings at Mesa Verde, a collection of turquoise Aztec mosaics from Mexico (the largest in Europe), important artefacts from Teotihuacan and Isla de Sacrificios, several rare pre-Columbian manuscripts including the Codex Zouche-Nuttall and Codex Waecker-Gotter, a spectacular series of Mayan lintels from Yaxchilan excavated by the British Mayanist Alfred Maudslay, a very high quality Mayan collection that includes sculptures from Copan, Tikal, Tulum, Pusilha, Naranjo and Nebaj (including the celebrated Fenton Vase), a group of Zemi Figures from Vere, Jamaica, a number of prestigious pre-Columbian gold and votive objects from Colombia, ethnographic objects from across the Amazon region including the Schomburgk collection, two rare Tiwanaku pottery vessels from Lake Titicaca and important items from Tierra del Fuego donated by Commander Phillip Parker King.\n\nThe British Museum is home to one of the world's finest numismatic collections, comprising about a million objects, including coins, medals, tokens and paper money. The collection spans the entire history of coinage from its origins in the 7th century BC to the present day and is representative of both the East and West. The Department of Coins and Medals was created in 1861 and celebrated its 150th anniversary in 2011.\n\nThis department was founded in 1920. Conservation has six specialist areas: ceramics & glass; metals; organic material (including textiles); stone, wall paintings and mosaics; Eastern pictorial art and Western pictorial art. The science department has and continues to develop techniques to date artefacts, analyse and identify the materials used in their manufacture, to identify the place an artefact originated and the techniques used in their creation. The department also publishes its findings and discoveries.\n\nThis department covers all levels of education, from casual visitors, schools, degree level and beyond. The museum's various libraries hold in excess of 350,000 books, journals and pamphlets covering all areas of the museum's collection. Also the general museum archives which date from its foundation in 1753 are overseen by this department; the individual departments have their own separate archives and libraries covering their various areas of responsibility, which can be consulted by the public on application. The Anthropology Library is especially large, with 120,000 volumes. However, the Paul Hamlyn Library, which had become the central reference library of the British Museum and the only library there freely open to the general public, closed permanently in August 2011. The website and online database of the collection also provide increasing amounts of information.\n\nThe British Museum Press (BMP) is the publishing business and a division of the British Museum Company Ltd., a company and a charity (established in 1973) wholly owned by the trustees of the British Museum.\n\nThe BMP publishes both popular and scholarly illustrated books to accompany the exhibition programme and explore aspects of the general collection. Profits from their sales goes to support the British Museum.\n\nScholarly titles are published in the Research Publications series, all of which are peer-reviewed. This series was started in 1978 and was originally called Occasional Papers. The series is designed to disseminate research on items in the collection. Between six and eight titles are published each year in this series.\n\nIt is a point of controversy whether museums should be allowed to possess artifacts taken from other countries, and the British Museum is a notable target for criticism. The Elgin Marbles, Benin Bronzes and the Rosetta Stone are among the most disputed objects in its collections, and organisations have been formed demanding the return of these artefacts to their native countries of Greece, Nigeria and Egypt respectively. Parthenon Marbles claimed by Greece were also claimed by UNESCO among others for restitution. From 1801 to 1812, Elgin's agents took about half of the surviving sculptures of the Parthenon, as well as sculptures from the Propylaea and Erechtheum.\n\nIn recent years, controversies pertaining to reparation of artefacts taken from the Old Summer Palace in Beijing during the Anglo-French invasion of China in 1860 have also begun to surface. The ransacking and destruction of the Chinese palaces has led to unhealed historical wounds in Chinese culture. Victor Hugo condemned the French and British for their plundering. The British Museum and the Victoria & Albert Museum, among others, have been asked since 2009 to open their archives for investigation by a team of Chinese investigators as a part of an international mission to document lost national treasures. However, there have been fears that the United Kingdom may be asked to return these treasures. , Neil MacGregor, the Director of the British Museum, said he hoped that both British and Chinese investigators would work together on the controversial collection, which continues to result in resentment in China.\n\nThe British Museum has refused to return these artefacts, stating that the \"restitutionist premise, that whatever was made in a country must return to an original geographical site, would empty both the British Museum and the other great museums of the world\". The museum has also argued that the British Museum Act of 1963 legally prevents any object from leaving its collection once it has entered it. Nevertheless, it has returned items such as the Tasmanian Ashes after a 20-year-long battle with Australia.\n\nThe British Museum continues to assert that it is an appropriate custodian and has an inalienable right to its disputed artefacts under British law.\n\nIn 2016, the British Museum moved its bag searches to marquees in the front courtyard and beside the rear entrance. This has been criticised by heritage groups as out-of-character with the historic building. The British Museum clarified that the change was purely logistical to save space in the main museum entrance and did not reflect any escalation in threat.\n\n\n\"Department of Ancient Egypt and Sudan\"\n\"Department of the Middle East\"\n\"Department of Greece and Rome\"\nThe museum has a collaboration with the Google Cultural Institute to bring the collection online.\n\n\"Exhibitions\"\n\n\"Forgotten Empire Exhibition (October 2005 – January 2006)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23518489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23518489", "title": "Center for Ethical Solutions", "text": "Center for Ethical Solutions\n\nThe Center for Ethical Solutions (CES), founded by Sigrid Fry-Revere, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit bioethics think tank based in Lovettsville, Virginia whose mission is to find practical solutions to controversial problems in the field of medical ethics. CES supports research and public education, seeking to achieve its goals through research and developing products including books and documentary films to educate the public. Lobbying and participation in political campaigns are specifically excluded from its activities.\n\n\n\n\nQuick Facts Sheet on Kidney Disease and the Organ Shortage\n\nQuick Facts Sheet on PTSD (Posttraumatic Stress Disorder) and TBI (Traumatic Brain Injury)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44853854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44853854", "title": "Certificate of public convenience and necessity", "text": "Certificate of public convenience and necessity\n\nA certificate of public convenience and necessity or certificate of public convenience is a type of regulatory compliance certification for public service industries. Private companies wishing to provide essential public services in certain countries must be granted a CPCN before constructing facilities and offering services.\n\nIn the Philippines, a certificate of public convenience (CPC) is required for private provision of public services for which no franchise, either municipal or legislative, is required by law, such as a common carrier.\n\nThe first U.S. state statutes for certificate of public convenience (CPCN) were issued in 1870, and the U.S. Congress included a certification provision in U.S. federal law in the Transportation Act of 1920. Examples of industries requiring a CPCN from a U.S. state include the provision of telecommunications in New York state, transportation of natural gas in Alaska, and a range of public services in Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "32426618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32426618", "title": "Christie Davies", "text": "Christie Davies\n\nJohn Christopher Hughes \"Christie\" Davies (25 December 1941 – 26 August 2017) was a British sociologist, professor emeritus of sociology at the University of Reading, England, the author of many articles and books on criminology, the sociology of morality, censorship, and humour. He was also a visiting professor in India, Poland, United States, and Australia.\n\nHe was born John Christopher Hughes Davies in Cheam, Surrey. His parents were Welsh, his father an inspector of schools and mother a teacher. He attended secondary school at Dynevor School in Swansea, Wales. He then studied at Emmanuel College, Cambridge and graduated with a double first in Economics. In later life, Davies received a PhD from the same university (Cambridge) based on his published works.\n\nIn 1964, Davies taught Economics at the University of Adelaide, South Australia. After coming back to the UK, he spent two years at the BBC as a radio producer. He then returned to the academia, lecturing at the University of Leeds for three years, followed by a stint as a visiting lecturer in India. In 1972 he joined the University of Reading as a lecturer in Sociology, receiving promotion to a Professor in 1984. In 2002 he retired and was appointed Professor Emeritus at the same university.\n\nIn addition to numerous works on humour, censorship and morality, Davies also published a collection of humorous fantasy stories titled \"Dewi the Dragon\".\n\nIn his 2002 book \"The Mirth of Nations\", Davies criticised the theories which derive humor from conflict and superiority, and argued instead that humor is a form of play – a play with aggression, superiority, and taboo-breaking. He also argued against the Freudian theory about Jewish jokes being mostly self-deprecating, claiming that instead they are based on the cultural tradition of analytical thinking and self-awareness. American folklorist Alan Dundes called the book \"the provocative critique of previous scholarship on the subject\".\n\nDavies was past president of the International Society for Humor Studies.\n\nIn 1983, Davies warned that when Britain handed Hong Kong back to China in 1997 there would be no future for its 5.5 million inhabitants. He jokingly suggested a new \"city state\" could be created near Magilligan Point in between Coleraine and Derry for resettling Hong Kong inhabitants. Files from The National Archives show that the idea triggered some debate among Whitehall mandarins. David Snoxell, a retired diplomat who took part in the debates revealed it was \"a spoof between colleagues who had a sense of humour\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33824552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33824552", "title": "Development of non-profit housing in the United States", "text": "Development of non-profit housing in the United States\n\nNon-profit housing developers build affordable housing for individuals under-served by the private market. The non-profit housing sector is composed of community development corporations (CDC) and national and regional non-profit housing organizations whose mission is to provide for the needy, the elderly, working households, and others that the private housing market does not adequately serve. Of the total 4.6 million units in the social housing sector, non-profit developers have produced approximately 1.547 million units, or roughly one-third of the total stock. Since non-profit developers seldom have the financial resources or access to capital that for-profit entities do, they often use multiple layers of financing, usually from a variety of sources for both development and operation of these affordable housing units.\n\nBoth the non-profit sector and for-profit sector build affordable housing, although missions, operations and financial and technical abilities differ. The core difference between a for-profit and a non-profit organization is that for-profit entities operate to produce returns to owners or shareholders, whereas non-profits either reinvest profits into the organization and/or donate money to serve their mission. This inherent difference of organizational objective dictates the operational strategy of their projects; for-profits are likely to create affordable housing that maximizes profits, where non-profits aim to serve the most vulnerable populations. Examples of strategies that for-profit entities use to maximize profits include locating their projects in neighborhoods with strong rental markets, mixing market-rate units into their buildings to increase operating income, and developing an exit strategy to maximize sale proceeds from their building. Conversely, non-profits are more likely to develop in distressed neighborhoods, dedicate all of their units to low-income tenants and operate projects for the long-term in order to fulfill the mission of affordability.\n\nAs a result of their business strategy, non-profits lack the financial and technical resources of for-profits, thus, forcing them to rely on multiple funding sources such as public and private grants and subsidies in order to cover development costs. Using multiple funding sources is risky because it creates complex financing which can be both timely and expensive. Most of these public and private sources exist exclusively for non-profit entities and although this provides an advantage for the non-profit industry, for-profits would often refrain from spending the uncompensated time and effort for such complicated deals.\n\nPre-development efforts such as acquiring land, forming partnerships, performing due diligence and gaining entitlements is the important first steps developers make before a project is launched. A major problem for non-profit developers is that their deals are thinly capitalized and funding pre-development costs is difficult; these costs include architecture, engineering, site control and feasibility analysis. Non-profits also confront marketability, feasibility and financing problems that usually deter for-profit developers. Pre-development is essential for packaging a project proposal, and funding is necessary to work through any issues during this time. Lack of pre-development funding can lead to weak project proposals and failure to seize opportunities to acquire land. Also, lack of funds increases development risks and decreases the likelihood of attracting capital investors or securing loans from private banks.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, national, state and local intermediaries formed to improve the financial and technical plight of non-profit housing developers. These organizations improved the mobilization of capital including project and operating support, pre-development finance, and provided technical assistance for finance packaging. As a result, non-profit developers began to increase their technical competence and reduce the risk to potential public and private sector investors.\n\nNational intermediaries include organizations such as the Local Initiatives Support Coalition (LISC), the Enterprise Foundation, Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (NRC) and the Housing Assistance Council (HAC). These organizations help non-profit housing developers access tax credits, corporate equity investment, secondary mortgage markets and lender commitments as well as offering training courses on real estate development and finance and community organizing and social service provision. Furthermore, these groups help non-profits form partnerships with each other and public and private parties, helping to foster support and funding for non-profit housing development.\n\nNon-profits generally form partnerships to develop and own affordable housing projects. Some considerations that non-profits evaluate before creating an ownership entity include the ease and speed with which decisions can be made, efficient provision of property management operations, and the number of investors required to meet equity needs and investment objectives of the investors relative to project cash flow, appreciation, and attitudes towards personal liability. Furthermore, impacts of tax considerations for the ownership entity itself as well as individual investors are also evaluated; this includes apportioning ordinary income liability and capital gains liability.\n\nForms of legal ownership structures that non-profits create include general partnerships, limited partnerships and limited liability companies (LLC). In a general partnership, two or more entities come together to form a new business entity where each partner is jointly and severally liable for all legal and financial obligations. Also,each member has a right to participate in all partnership decisions unless specified otherwise in the partnership agreement. Partnerships are not tax entities, so all tax consequences are passed directly to individual partners; partners agree to shares of tax consequences, as well as cash flow and appreciation of the project. Limited partnerships are similar to a general partnership except that one or more partners act as a general partner, and the rest of the partners are limited partners. Limited partners are treated differently than general partners in that they are only liable for the capital invested and cannot participate in routine operations or decisions of the partnership without losing their limited liability protection. The partnership agreement defines the responsibility of each partner and how the share profits and tax consequences. An LLC combines the advantages of a corporation for personal liability purposes (liability is limited to the amount of capital invested) and those of a partnership for tax purposes (the entity is not taxed).\n\nSince non-profits lack the funds to develop and operate their buildings they seek funding from external sources such as local, state and federal governments and private entities. Projects often have layered subsidies in the form of equity, debt, grants and tax concessions (non-profits are tax-exempt entities per section 501(c)(3) of the IRS tax code).\n\nThrough LIHTC, investors receive a tax shelter of one dollar ($1) for every tax credit received over a 10-year period. The price of individual tax credits may vary and does not necessarily have to be a 1:1 exchange. The dollar amount of tax credits available to a state is determined by that state's population. Developers apply to state agencies, such as a state Housing Finance Agency, for allocation of tax credits. After receiving the tax credits, the developer then sells the credits to investors. No less than 10% of a state's tax credit allocations must be allocated towards housing development by non-profit organizations.\n\nWhen selling LIHTCs, developers typically enter into a limited partnership (LP or LLC) with an investor (see discussion above regarding ownership) where the investor becomes 99% partner. While LIHTC can be used to entice investors to a project, they seldom cover total development costs and developers must find additional sources of \"gap financing\".\n\nCurrently, the Housing Choice Voucher program (through Section 8) provides funds to Public Housing Authorities (PHAs) which pay single and multi-family homeowners the difference between 30% of a tenants’ income and “fair market rent” for providing affordable housing. There are two methods of distributing Section 8 funds: through project-based assistance and through tenant-based assistance. Non-profit organizations are not directly allocated project-based assistance; therefore, a partnership with a PHA is required to take advantage of this program. PHAs may use up to 20% of their voucher allocation towards project-based vouchers.\n\nFor non-profit developers that own the land where their housing development is located, Section 8 generally affects a project's income since rental subsidies are being provided. Project-based vouchers allow owners to dedicate a portion or all of their property for affordable rental housing and receive subsidies for doing so. In the event a tenant decides to move out of a subsidized unit, that unit remains affordable. In contrast, with tenant-based vouchers, the subsidy is tied to the tenant, thus the tenant may move from one household to another and still be eligible for housing assistance.\n\nSection 202 and 811 are HUD programs that provide capital grants for non-profits to finance the construction, rehabilitation or acquisition of supportive housing for the elderly (Section 202) and the disabled (Section 811). These programs ensure that non-profit owners of elderly and disabled housing under these programs will not have to pay for long-term financing, by eliminating the need for debt and rental subsidies in order to support very low-income tenants.\n\nThe following funding programs described are provided by HUD, but allocated to states and local jurisdictions for distribution to projects. Housing developers apply for funds through the states and local jurisdictions; however, the subsidy funding actually comes from federal monies.\n\nThe CDBG program was established by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and replaced eight federal programs which granted funds to states and local communities based on project-specific proposals and had strict regulations on how the money could be allocated. In contrast, the CDBG program allows states and municipalities to budget CDBG funds based on their consolidated plan (a mandatory plan which outlines the community’s housing needs, its 5-year strategy, and a 1-year plan focused on resources and implementation). Community participation is required when creating a consolidated plan. HUD then determines how the funds are distributed to the various applicant communities using a couple formulas which measure the extent of the poverty, population, housing overcrowding, age of housing, and population growth lag compared to metropolitan areas.\n\nNo less than 70% of CDBG funds granted to a community must benefit low- and moderate-income people (up to 80% AMI, or Area Median Income). The remaining amount may be used to prevent or eliminate slums or blight or for community needs caused by natural disaster. Funds may be used for the acquisition, disposition, or retention of real property; the remodeling of existing residential and non-residential buildings; social services; and economic development.\n\nLocal governments are prohibited from utilizing CDBG funds for new residential development (except for “last resort housing”, or when comparable replacement housing for a CDBG project can only be accomplished by new construction). However, non-profit and other organizations that are part of a neighborhood revitalization, community economic development or energy conservation project are permitted to use the funds for housing.\n\nIn early 2011, President Barack Obama had proposed a budget for the 2012 fiscal year which included cutting the CDBG program by 7.5%, or $300 million.\n\nThe HOME Investment Partnerships Program, another community block grant program, was created by Congress in 1990 and authorized as Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act. Similar to CDBGs, a consolidated plan is required prior to distribution of HOME funds. Unlike CDBGs, HOME funds are granted to states and local jurisdictions specifically for the provision of affordable owned and rental housing for low- and moderate-income households by. States receive 40% of funds and cities and other local governments receive 60%. Allocation of funds is based on a needs based formula (similar to the CDBG program). States are eligible for the higher amount of the formula allotment or $3 million; and local jurisdictions are eligible for at least $500,000. Of the money allocated to a state or local jurisdiction, at least 15% must be distributed to community-based non-profit organizations (Community Housing Development Organizations, or CHDOs).\n\nHOME funds may be used to assist people in buying a home, to develop owner-occupied and rental housing (including acquisition of land and demolition of existing real property to allow for a HOME-funded project; and payment relocation expenses),to rehabilitate existing homes, and to provide “tenant-based rental assistance” (or TBRA). Development projects must be aimed towards households with no more than 80% AMI, and for rental projects, at least 90% of the benefiting families must have an income less than 60% AMI. For rental projects with five or more units being assisted, at least 20% of the households must have incomes less than 50% AMI.\n\nOther requirements for HOME funds include the match of funds from other sources, minimum affordability terms for projects, limits on TBRA, and a time limit on when the funds must be allocated and spent by. For every dollar of HOME funds received, jurisdictions must provide a 25 cents match in non-federal sources. Newly constructed rental housing must remain affordable for at least 20 years. For owner-occupied housing (newly constructed and remodeled), acquired rental housing, and remodeled rental housing, the minimum affordability term ranges from 5 to 15 years depending on the amount of funds received in relation to the number of assisted units. Unlike Section 8 vouchers, TBRA is limited to two years and may not be used for project-based rental assistance. Finally, HOME funds must be committed (including reserving funds for CHDOs) within two years and be spent within five years.\n\nOftentimes, HOME funds is not enough to bring rents down to the maximum allowed based on AMI; therefore additional funding must be acquired and used in conjunction with HOME funds, such as the LIHTC. Both HOME and CDBG funds have been criticized for being unable to provide subsidies large enough to provide housing for households with incomes equal to or less than 30% AMI.\n\nThe purpose of tax-exempt bonds, or private activity bonds, is to promote job creation and increase economic development in local areas; therefore, they are not limited to housing creation. These bonds are issued by state Housing Finance Agencies (similar to LIHTCs) or by local government development agencies. Since the interest on the bonds is exempt from state and local taxes, lenders who purchase the bonds pass on this savings onto borrowers through lower interest rates. Tax-exempt bonds are similar to conventional loans in that the borrower must pay back the principle plus interest to the lender; however, tax-exempt bonds typically have longer financing periods compared to conventional loans. In general, this type of bonding is utilized for projects over one million dollars.\n\nThere are bonds which exist exclusively for use by non-profit organizations to provide residential rental housing. When used for such purposes, the IRS code places use limitations on at least 95% of the bond proceeds. Among the uses permitted, one places minimum affordable occupancy levels. Similar to LIHTCs, at least 40% of the units must be occupied by households with incomes 60% AMI or less, or at least 20% of the units must be occupied households with no more than 50% AMI.\n\nThe federal government limits the amount of tax-exempt bonds a state can issue within a given year. Due to the late-2000s financial crisis, state housing finance agencies became “virtually frozen… out of the Housing Bond market” causing many agencies to either suspend or significantly decrease the amount of bonds issued.\n\nHousing trust funds (HTFs) are established at all levels of government (national, state, county and local). These funds are created specifically for the provision of affordable housing to low- and moderate-income households and are based on collected revenue sources. HTFs generally have far fewer restrictions than other forms of public financing and may be used for a wide range of development activities. For example, eligible activities under the National Housing Trust Fund include but are not limited to: property acquisition, development/rehabilitation costs, construction costs, and some operating expenses.\n\nMost trust funds have a minimum requirement of affordability ranging from 5 to 30 years. A majority of the HTFs target those at and below 80% AMI; however, approximately a quarter of HTFs target the homeless or those with incomes at 50% AMI or below.\n\nSimilar to Section 8 funds, since trust funds are generally administered by governmental or quasi-governmental agencies, to utilize the funds, non-profit development projects much be completed in partnership with housing authorities, community development departments or corporations, redevelopment agencies, or a number of other possible governing agencies. \"(For more information regarding governing agencies, see Housing trust fund – Administration or governance\")\n\nPrivate assistance in the form of grants and low-interest loans for affordable housing is usually funded by local community foundations and national non-profits. Local community foundations focus primarily on improving specific neighborhoods, whereas national non-profits have broader objectives. For-profit corporations also offer funding opportunities through related non-profit foundations or partnerships such as Living Cities, a housing fund created by the partnership of financial institutions, insurance companies and HUD. Also, if a private company conducts a large share of their business in a particular area they may also contribute land, money and expertise to non-profit developers.\n\nIn the final phase of development the non-profit sponsor establishes the long-term viability of the project. This includes securing permanent financing for the project and planning for future building operations and management. Non-profits will either manage the building themselves or contract a management company to oversee operations. Property management requires marketing, tenant selection, rent collection, maintenance, finance, rule enforcement, strategic planning, etc.\n\nA critical component of operating affordable housing is managing a project’s financing. Developers create an operating model to determine a property’s financial viability through projected future cash flows. An operating model computes annual cash flow or operating income by subtracting operating expenses (maintenance, water, sewer, electricity, insurance, etc.) from income generated by rents and other income such as laundry, vending and parking services. Positive operating income is necessary to cover the mortgage payments on the property and if income is not enough to cover debt than the bank can foreclose on the property. Lenders measure the ability of a project’s operating income to make mortgage payments by using a debt-service-coverage ratio, which is a calculation of annual operating income divided by annual mortgage payments; the higher the ratio the lower the risk of project foreclosure.\n\nMaintaining stable revenue throughout the lifetime is challenging for a non-profit. Often, affordable housing exists in weak housing markets and in neighborhoods characterized by high crime rates, vacant and abandoned properties and low rent prices. Housing in these markets is generally unattractive and thus difficult to rent, therefore buildings lose money due to high vacancy. Projects in poor markets can also experience high costs associated with increased screening of renters and preparation of units due to high tenant turnover. Also, affordable projects frequently rely on government subsidies to cover the portion of rent that low-income tenants cannot afford (usually the difference between 30% of tenant income and market rents); projects are exposed to risk of losing future cash flows if governments cut tenant assistance programs. Furthermore, inadequate property management can affect operating income through the ineffectiveness of collecting rents or managing costs.\n\nRisks associated with loss of operating income are the physical deterioration of the building and inability to meet debt obligations. Lack of revenue inhibits the property manager’s ability to make repairs or capital improvements to the building, causing the property to fall into disrepair. To mitigate this risk, non-profit owners often establish a reserve account to cover capital expenditures in the event that a property does not generate enough income to cover maintenance costs. Furthermore, in the event that debt service cannot be covered, the lender can foreclose on the property, taking the affordable units off of the market and hurting the mission of the non-profit. Non-profits can reduce the risk of foreclosure by securing long-term debt with public entities because public entities share similar missions as the non-profit and will be more inclined to restructure the financing, rather than foreclosing. Also, if the non-profit owns multiple buildings, diversifying the location of the buildings, type of tenants and source of project funding can diminish the risk of the entire organization failing if subsidies run dry or markets collapse.\n\n"}
{"id": "36859663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36859663", "title": "Discrimination against non-binary gender people", "text": "Discrimination against non-binary gender people\n\nDiscrimination or prejudice against non-binary people, people who do not identify as exclusively masculine or feminine, is a form of sexism, as well as a specific type of transphobia. Both cisgender and binary transgender people (men and women), including members of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) communities, can display such prejudice.\n\nIn the binary gender system, genderqueerness is unintelligible and abjected. Individuals who identify as a gender that does not fit the traditional binary system tend to experience higher levels of social discrimination. A 2012 study from the \"National LGBTQ Task Force\" showed that genderqueer and other non-binary individuals were more likely to suffer physical assaults (32% vs. 25%), experience police harassment (25% vs. 19%), and suffer sexual assaulted (15% vs. 19%) compared to transgender individuals who identified within the gender binary (i.e., trans men and trans women). Genderqueer individuals also reported higher rates of harassment in K-12 school (83% vs. 77%), and sexual assault in K-12 schools (16% vs. 11%). This study reported that genderqueer and other non-binary individuals were more likely to be people of color (30% vs. 23%) and younger (under 45) than binary transgender people (89% vs. 68%). Responders who identified as neither male nor female were less likely to be white and more likely to be multi racial, Black, or Asian, but less likely to be Latin-American/Spanish in origin compared to those who identified as male or female. The study showed that despite genderqueer and other non-nonbinary individuals having received significantly higher education than those who identified within the gender binary, they were more likely to be living in extreme poverty (under $10,000 yearly) than those who identified within the gender binary (21% vs. 14%). They were more likely to be involved in underground economies for income (20% vs. 15%) than those who identified within the gender binary. Respondents disclosed brutal effects of discrimination, which had grave impacts, as 43% of genderqueer participants reported attempting suicide compared to 40% of transgender individuals that identified within the gender binary.\n\nSocial discrimination in the context of discrimination against non-binary and gender non-conforming people includes hate-motivated violence and excusing of such. According to a 2016 study from \"The Journal of Sex Research,\" one of the most common themes of discrimination for genderqueer people is binarism. Also the incorrect use of preferred gender pronouns, which the study labeled ‘nonaffirmation’ occurs when others do not affirm one’s sense of gender identity. Participants within this study also reported experiencing gender policing. An article from the book \"Violence and Gender\", states that this experienced violence and discrimination leads to high levels of stress. This article stated that non-binary participants are less likely to experience hate speech (24.4% vs. 50%) compared to trans men and equally as likely (24.4% vs. 24.4%) as trans women, yet genderqueer/nonbinary participants, along with trans women are more likely than trans men individuals to be concerned about the safety of themselves and others.\n\nIn the United States of America, unemployment rates for transgender people are approximately twice as high as those for cisgender people. In the National Transgender Discrimination Survey conducted by the LGBTQ+ Task Force, it was found that almost all non-binary persons had experienced discrimination in the workplace. Their findings show that being out as a non-binary person negatively affects that person's employment outcomes. Though non-binary persons have higher unemployment rates than those who identify with a specified gender, masculine non-binary persons who still appear male, or are not \"passing as female\" generally have a harder time in the work environment.\n\nIn a 2012 study by the Center for American Progress, 42% of gay employees said they have experienced discrimination of some form in the workplace; 50% of participants reported being harassed at work and 47% reported an adverse job outcome. That includes being fired or denied a promotion. In addition, 32% felt forced to act “traditionally gendered” to keep their jobs and 22% were denied access to bathrooms of choice based in gender identity.\n\n19% of non-binary trans persons reported job loss due to anti-transgender bias, and 90% reported experiencing anti-transgender bias on the job. 78% of those who had transitioned during their time at the workplace were happy with their choice to do so, and reported feeling more comfortable at work, although they experienced more discrimination. \n\nNot only does discrimination against transgender people in the workplace affect transgender employees, but it also affects the entire workplace team, distracting the victim and the perpetrator from the job itself. In 2001 study by the West Lothian Transgender Support Group, it was found that around 50 percent of transgender people do not survive beyond their thirtieth birthday, with most taking their own lives due to discrimination and others losing their lives from violence of cisgender individuals. The study’s statistic is also known as “the 50 percent rule” . With that being said, transgender individuals in the U.S. often face workplace discrimination like conflicts related to their bathroom usage, backlash over transitioning genders and being “misgendered” by coworkers. The Center of American Progress in 2012 also found that there is also a substantial amount of public ignorance towards transgender communities, in comparison to LGB community peers. Because of that, negative psychological consequences occur as a result like mental health disparities, higher rates in attempted suicide, and paranoid thinking in public spaces . Columbia University’s study in 2003 found that ideas of perceived discrimination are consistent with models of minority stress. It was also found that sexual minorities, such as the transgender community, are vulnerable to physical and mental health difficulties due to an exposure to chronic life stressors. The study finds that the transgender community in the U.S. possesses pre-conceived notions of rejection, hostility and discrimination from gender identities outside their groups .\n\nTransgender & non-binary peoples generally seek greater care because of the stigma and the lack of knowledge about their experience on the behalf of rural physicians. With that being said, non-binary individuals, and members of the LGBTQ community are very tentative when sharing their sexual identities to health care providers in fear of receiving inadequate/unfair treatment. In the 2001 Journal of the Gay and Lesbian Medical Association, the study explores factors associated with disclosure. 88 individuals (76% non-binary) gave responses to a questionnaire asking about their most recent interaction with health care, and how their overall experience was. Of this group, more respondents answered that they avoided answering questions about their sexuality (38%) than honestly disclosing it to their health care provider (37%). The respondents who avoided the questions were in agreement that if they gave out their sexual identity, they would be treated differently or poorly. The overall rates of disclosure to health care providers are low because of the perception that health care settings/providers are threatening and unjust. \n\nIn the 2015 International Journal of Transgenderism, a big portion of non-binary individuals reported to have experienced discrimination from different types of medical services, including: doctors, emergency rooms, and ambulances. From the study, it was discovered that 20.4% of non-binary individuals experienced discrimination when trying to access doctors and hospitals, 11.9% faced discrimination when attempting to access emergency rooms, and 4.6% when attempting to access the service of an ambulance. Based on these statistics, there is a needed change in how health services treat non-binary patients to minimize the discrimination on these individuals. \n\nIn the UK, non-binary individuals also experience health discrimination. Under the law of the United Kingdom, individuals are considered by the state to be either male or female, the gender that is stated on their birth certificate. This means that non-binary gender is not recognized in UK law. In a 2015 survey conducted by the Scottish Trans Alliance, three main areas were focused on including, non-binary individuals' experiences of medical services. When asked if they had ever experienced problems getting the help that was needed because of their non-binary identity, 56% said that they had. Some examples of this discrimination included refusal of surgery, withholding of treatment, discharging from clinics for being \"untreatable,\" and no treatment due to not having protocol for non-binary individuals. In addition, more than half of the respondents answered that they experienced a delay in their treatment after being honest and open about their non-binary gender identities. \n\nSimilarly to the UK, a 2013 survey was designed to examine the healthcare experiences of non binary individuals, and all other members of the LGBTQ community. The survey asked participants to rate their mental and physical health, and how their experiences with psychiatrists, general practitioners, and surgeons were. They rated their experience in terms of comfort, discrimination, and information provided. 10 people given the gender male at birth and 78 given female at birth, yet all identifying as gender diverse or non-binary individuals, completed two separate surveys. 70% of the participants accessed a psychiatrist, and on average rated their experience as just below positive. The individuals assigned female at birth rated their experience worse than those assigned male at birth. After this data was recorded, an analysis of the responses suggested that the positive experiences were due to professional, helpful, knowledgeable, and caring practitioners. Negative experiences were due to the amount of ridiculous or offensive questions asked, and for little to no knowledge on their sexual identity. Overall, these findings indicated that medical professionals are falling short of adequately meeting the needs of non binary individuals. \n\nDespite being more likely to achieve higher levels of education when compared to the general public, 90% of non-binary individuals face discrimination, often in the form of harassment in the workplace. Nineteen percent of genderqueer individuals report job loss as a result of their identities. Anti-discrimination laws that prohibit discrimination specifically against non-binary individuals do not exist. However, Title VII and the current proposed version of the federal Employment Non-Discrimination Act use such terms as \"gender identity\" and \"gender expression\", categories under which non-binary individuals fall due to the fact that their gender expression cannot be defined as male or female.\n\nIn 2004, Jimmie Smith was terminated from the fire department in Salem, Ohio after revealing their diagnosis with Gender Identity Disorder and intentions to undergo a male to female transition. The district court determined the reason for termination was because of their \"transexuality\" and not their gender non-conformity. The case was appealed to the Sixth Circuit, which overturned that decision and clarified to courts that under Title VII, sex discrimination was to be considered broader than only the traditional assumptions of sex.\n\nTwelve states currently have legislation which bars discrimination based on gender identity. Despite these efforts, non-binary individuals are subject to higher rates of physical and sexual assault and police harassment than those who identify as men or women, likely due to their gender expression or presentation.\n\nAccording to the Transgender Law Center, 70% of transgender people are not able to update their identity documents and one-third of have been harassed, assaulted or turned away when seeking basic services,\nand one third are not able to update their documents post-transition.\nIn 2016, the U.S. State Department was sued for denying a passport to Dana Zzyym, who is a veteran and an intersex and non-binary person. Zzyym wrote \"intersex\" on their passport form instead of male or female, which were the only two available gender fields on the form. Zzyym was denied the passport, which led to LGBTQ advocacy organizations filing a lawsuit against the U.S. State Department on Zzyym's behalf. The advocacy group Lambda Legal argued for gender-neutral terms and a third option on U.S. passports, arguing that the existing passport fields violated the Due Process Clause and Equal Protection Clause of the U.S. Constitution. The State Department argued that adding additional gender fields to the passport form would prevent the agency's efforts to combat identity theft and passport fraud. The Tenth Circuit Court ruled in favor of Zzyym, the first time in U.S. history that the federal government recognized non-binary people.\n\nCalifornia, the District of Columbia, New York City, New York State, Iowa, Vermont, Oregon and Washington State have currently removed the surgical requirement to complete a change on a birth certificate. In these states, to change the gender on a birth certificate, one must fill out a standardized form but legal or medical approvals are not required. In Washington D.C., the applicant fills out the top half of the form and a health or social service professional must fill out the bottom half. A person may face obstacles obtaining a court order in order to make a change to documents in other states. Tennessee is the only state that has a specific statute that forbids altering the gender designation on a birth certificate due to gender surgery, while Idaho and Ohio have the same prohibition, but via court decision rather than by statute; and in Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory, a court ruled that gender markers could not be changed on identity documents under any circumstances.\n\nIn California, the Gender Recognition Act of 2017 was introduced in the State Senate in Sacramento in January 2017, and signed into law by governor Jerry Brown on October 19. The law recognizes a third gender option known as \"non-binary\" which may be used on state-issued documents such as driver's licenses to more accurately reflect a person's gender. Senate bill SB179 was originally drafted by State Senators Toni Atkins and Scott Wiener. The law also makes it easier for existing documents to be changed, by removing requirements for sworn statements by physicians and replacing it with a sworn attestation by the person seeking to make the change to their documents. The Executive Director of Equality California commented, \"It is up to an individual—not a judge or even a doctor—to define a person's gender identity.\"\n\nThe first two US citizens to receive a court decreed gender of non-binary were in Oregon and California. In Oregon, Jamie Shupe was able to declare their sex as non-binary in June 2016 after a brief legal battle. Following in Shupe's footsteps, California resident Sarah Kelly Keenan was also able to legally change their gender marker to non-binary in September 2016. After both Shupe and Keenan had success with their cases, more people have been inspired to take on the legal battle of changing their gender to a non-binary marker. With the help of organizations such as Intersex & Genderqueer Recognition Project dozens of these petitions have been granted and additional states have changed regulations to provide a third gender option on state ID, birth certificates, and/or court orders.\n\nNon-binary is not recognized as a legal gender in the United Kingdom. The Gender Recognition Act 2004 allowed people to apply to the Gender Recognition Panel for a change of gender after living as the gender they wished to show on all their legal documents and being given a diagnosis of gender dysphoria by at least two health professionals. However, this change of gender only allowed for a change from male to female or vice versa.\n\nIn 2006 the Identity Cards Act 2006 was introduced, which issued documents to UK residents and linked them back to the National Identity Register database. When the issue of transgender people and their assigned vs. actual gender came up, it was said that transgender people would be issued two cards, each with a separate male and female gender marker. It was also said that eventually the hope for some was that the identity cards would get rid of the gender markers altogether. The Identity Documents Act 2010 made all these cards invalid and called for their immediate destruction.\n\nIn 2002, the Northwest Territories was the first of Canada’s provinces to explicitly include gender identity as a protected group from discrimination under the law, followed by Manitoba in 2012. By 2015, every Canadian province and territory had included similar changes to their discrimination laws.\n\nIn 2017, Canada passed Bill C-16 which formally recognized non-binary gender people and granted them protection under the law towards discrimination on the grounds of “gender identity” and “gender expression.”\n\nThe Sex Discrimination Act of 1984 did not explicitly protect non-binary persons from discrimination until the Sex Discrimination Amendment (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Intersex Status) Act of 2013, which prohibited any discrimination on the grounds of “gender identity” and “intersex status.” This amendment also removed the use of “other” and “opposite sex” in exchange for broader terms like “different sex.”\n\nIn 2014, the Australian High Court legally recognized non-binary as a category for people to identify with on legal documents. After a citizen named Norrie made a request for a third gender identity on legal documents and was eventually denied, Norrie chose to take the matter up with Australia's Human Rights Commission and their Court of Appeal. After a four-year long legal battle beginning in 2010, Norrie finally won the case. From this and the legalizing of the matter in New South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory made the decision to pass a law which recognized non-binary identities. Though this is a step in a positive direction for non-binary identifying Australians, the law currently lacks concise policies on marriage licenses and recognition of partnership for non-binary people. Because of this, Australians registered as non-binary may not be able to legally marry.\n\nIn addition to marriage issues, the non-binary marker for Australian citizens requires proof of gender confirmation surgery. Because non-binary people live outside of the gender binary, they may not wish to obtain gender confirmation surgery. The people not wishing to do so ultimately will not be able to register as non-binary until this portion of the law is amended.\n\nWith much of existing Australian legislature being crafted around a binary interpretation of sex, this “third-sex” approach has lead to complications with how laws interact with this new classification. In response, steps towards the de-emphasis of sex within legislation are being taken by removing sexual identification from legal areas that do not have a necessity for it.\n\n"}
{"id": "52766226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52766226", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Iraq", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Iraq\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Iraq () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Iraq. It is located in Baghdad.\n\n"}
{"id": "10011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10011", "title": "Epistolary novel", "text": "Epistolary novel\n\nAn epistolary novel is a novel written as a series of documents. The usual form is letters, although diary entries, newspaper clippings and other documents are sometimes used. Recently, electronic \"documents\" such as recordings and radio, blogs, and e-mails have also come into use. The word \"epistolary\" is derived from Latin from the Greek word ἐπιστολή \"epistolē\", meaning a letter (see epistle).\n\nThe epistolary form can add greater realism to a story, because it mimics the workings of real life. It is thus able to demonstrate differing points of view without recourse to the device of an omniscient narrator.\n\nThere are two theories on the genesis of the epistolary novel. The first claims that the genre originated from novels with inserted letters, in which the portion containing the third person narrative in between the letters was gradually reduced. The other theory claims that the epistolary novel arose from miscellanies of letters and poetry: some of the letters were tied together into a (mostly amorous) plot. Both claims have some validity. The first truly epistolary novel, the Spanish \"Prison of Love\" (\"Cárcel de amor\") (c.1485) by Diego de San Pedro, belongs to a tradition of novels in which a large number of inserted letters already dominated the narrative. Other well-known examples of early epistolary novels are closely related to the tradition of letter-books and miscellanies of letters. Within the successive editions of Edmé Boursault's \"Letters of Respect, Gratitude and Love\" (\"Lettres de respect, d'obligation et d'amour\") (1669), a group of letters written to a girl named Babet were expanded and became more and more distinct from the other letters, until it formed a small epistolary novel entitled \"Letters to Babet\" (\"Lettres à Babet\"). The immensely famous \"Letters of a Portuguese Nun\" (\"Lettres portugaises\") (1669) generally attributed to Gabriel-Joseph de La Vergne, comte de Guilleragues, though a small minority still regard Marianna Alcoforado as the author, is claimed to be intended to be part of a miscellany of Guilleragues prose and poetry.\nThe founder of the epistolary novel in English is said by many to be James Howell (1594–1666) with \"Familiar Letters\" (1645–50), who writes of prison, foreign adventure, and the love of women.\n\nThe first novel to expose the complex play that the genre allows was Aphra Behn's \"Love-Letters Between a Nobleman and His Sister\", which appeared in three volumes in 1684, 1685, and 1687. The novel shows the genre's results of changing perspectives: individual points were presented by the individual characters, and the central voice of the author and moral evaluation disappeared (at least in the first volume; her further volumes introduced a narrator). Behn furthermore explored a realm of intrigue with letters that fall into the wrong hands, faked letters, letters withheld by protagonists, and even more complex interaction.\n\nThe epistolary novel as a genre became popular in the 18th century in the works of such authors as Samuel Richardson, with his immensely successful novels \"Pamela\" (1740) and \"Clarissa\" (1749). In France, there was \"Lettres persanes\" (1721) by Montesquieu, followed by \"Julie, ou la nouvelle Héloïse\" (1761) by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and Laclos' \"Les Liaisons dangereuses\" (1782), which used the epistolary form to great dramatic effect, because the sequence of events was not always related directly or explicitly. In Germany, there was Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's \"Die Leiden des jungen Werthers\" (1774) (\"The Sorrows of Young Werther\") and Friedrich Hölderlin's \"Hyperion\". The first North American novel, \"The History of Emily Montague\" (1769) by Frances Brooke was written in epistolary form.\n\nStarting in the 18th century, the epistolary form was subject to much ridicule, resulting in a number of savage burlesques. The most notable example of these was Henry Fielding's \"Shamela\" (1741), written as a parody of \"Pamela\". In it, the female narrator can be found wielding a pen and scribbling her diary entries under the most dramatic and unlikely of circumstances. Oliver Goldsmith used the form to satirical effect in \"The Citizen of the World\", subtitled \"Letters from a Chinese Philosopher Residing in London to his Friends in the East\" (1760–61). So did the diarist Fanny Burney in a successful comic first novel, \"Evelina\" (1788).\n\nThe epistolary novel slowly fell out of use in the late 18th century. Although Jane Austen tried her hand at the epistolary in juvenile writings and her novella \"Lady Susan\" (1794), she abandoned this structure for her later work. It is thought that her lost novel \"First Impressions\", which was redrafted to become \"Pride and Prejudice\", may have been epistolary: \"Pride and Prejudice\" contains an unusual number of letters quoted in full and some play a critical role in the plot.\n\nThe epistolary form nonetheless saw continued use, surviving in exceptions or in fragments in nineteenth-century novels. In Honoré de Balzac's novel \"Letters of Two Brides\", two women who became friends during their education at a convent correspond over a 17-year period, exchanging letters describing their lives. Mary Shelley employs the epistolary form in her novel \"Frankenstein\" (1818). Shelley uses the letters as one of a variety of framing devices, as the story is presented through the letters of a sea captain and scientific explorer attempting to reach the north pole who encounters Victor Frankenstein and records the dying man's narrative and confessions. Published in 1848, Anne Brontë's novel \"The Tenant of Wildfell Hall\" is framed as a retrospective letter from one of the main heroes to his friend and brother-in-law with the diary of the eponymous tenant inside it. In the late 19th century, Bram Stoker released one of the most widely recognized and successful novels in the epistolary form to date, \"Dracula\". Printed in 1897, the novel is compiled entirely of letters, diary entries, newspaper clippings, telegrams, doctor's notes, ship's logs, and the like.\n\nThere are three types of epistolary novels: monologic (giving the letters of only one character, like \"Letters of a Portuguese Nun\" and \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\"), dialogic (giving the letters of two characters, like Mme Marie Jeanne Riccoboni's \"Letters of Fanni Butlerd\" (1757), and polylogic (with three or more letter-writing characters, such as in Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\"). In addition, a crucial element in polylogic epistolary novels like \"Clarissa\", and \"Dangerous Liaisons\" is the dramatic device of 'discrepant awareness': the simultaneous but separate correspondences of the heroines and the villains creating dramatic tension.\n\nAn important strategic device in the epistolary novel for creating the impression of authenticity of the letters is the fictional editor.\n\nEpistolary novels have made several memorable appearances in more recent literature:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39379431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39379431", "title": "Feminism in the Netherlands", "text": "Feminism in the Netherlands\n\nFeminism in the Netherlands began as part of the first-wave feminism movement during the 19th century. Later, the struggles of second-wave feminism in the Netherlands mirrored developments in the women's rights movement in other Western countries. Women in the Netherlands still have an open discussion about how to improve remaining imbalances and injustices they face as women.\n\nThe Republic of the Seven United Provinces, known as the Netherlands, was created through the Dutch War of Independence, which began in 1568 and ended with the Treaty of Westphalia. Women had a limited number of rights, including the right to enter contracts and the right to control their own dowries. Though they were still legally subordinate to men, widows such as Volcxken Diericx, an Antwerp publisher, and Aletta Hannemans, a Haarlem brewer, were allowed to continue their husband's business. Girls had no right to an education, and before widowhood, women were not allowed to own property or to participate in government.\n\nIndustrialization in the Netherlands brought jobs to both men and women. Labour unions began organizing by the mid-19th century. In 1841, Barbera van Meerten-Schilperoort founded \"Hulpbetoon aan Eerlijke en Vlijtige Armoede,\" the first women's organization in the Netherlands. Middle class women began to find paid employment, first in nursing. The first department store in the Netherlands opened in 1860, and women began finding jobs as retail clerks. Kindergartens, which had been pioneered in Germany, spread quickly in the Netherlands and needed a workforce of trained young women to staff them. To train young women to teach primary school, middle schools for girls were established in 1867. Young women with academic promise could petition for the right to be admitted to an all-male secondary school. Universities were closed to women until 1871, when Aletta Jacobs gained admittance to study medicine. She graduated as Europe's first modern woman physician. Jacobs also became prominent in the women's suffrage movement in the Netherlands. She opened the first women's birth control clinic in Amsterdam in 1882.\n\nIn the 1883 Dutch parliamentary elections, Aletta Jacobs petitioned for the right to vote, pointing out that she met all the legal criteria, but she was rejected from voting. This event triggered the women's suffrage movement in the Netherlands. The immediate result was an amendment to the voting rights of the Constitution in 1887, to specify \"male\" inhabitants of the Netherlands had the vote, adding another barrier to the women's suffrage.\n\nIn 1888, the \"Vrije Vrouwenvereeniging\" (Free Women's Movement, or VVV) was founded. This was soon followed in 1894 by the creation of a sub-group within the organization, the \"Vereeniging vor Vrouwenkiesrecht\" (Organization of Women's Suffrage).\n\nWilhelmina Drucker was less concerned about women winning emancipation—which she saw as easily attainable—than women winning equal opportunity in the workplace, a struggle she saw as facing much more resistance from men. Yet, where other feminists in the country pressed for labour laws addressing the specific needs of women workers, Drucker was opposed. In Drucker's view, \"The state should not interfere with men or with women, nor invent a fictive competition between men and women. It should solely recognize people; members of society.\"\n\nDrucker was firmly on the radical edge of feminism in the Netherlands, but she gave speaking tours and published a popular feminist journal, \"Evolutie\" (Evolution). In 1899, she spearheaded a campaign to stop legislation that would ban women under 40 from jobs as teachers or civil servants; after a decade-long campaign, the bill was \"crushed\". Aletta Jacobs co-founded the International Women's Suffrage Alliance in 1902.\n\nWomen won the right to stand for an election as a candidate in 1917. They gained full suffrage in 1919. This was relatively early compared to most other European nations; only Finland and Sweden had given women the vote earlier. Women had in part gained the vote to a political compromise \"package deal\" between socialists, liberals, and \"confessionalist\" parties. The confessionalists supported state funding for private schools, typically belonging to a religious denomination. This compromise system in Dutch politics was known as Pillarisation. In the years after women's emancipation, the confessionalists came to dominate moral discourse in the Netherlands, and legislation in support of confessionalist moral views was enacted (prostitution banned, 1912; abortion prohibited, 1911; advertising for contraception criminalized).\n\nA healthy economy and a rising standard of living characterizes life in the Netherlands during the 1920s. Women, however, faced a backlash against women's rights which reached into the workplace. Women's rights groups multiplied. The international feminist organizations gained larger memberships as women worldwide continued to struggle for emancipation. Dutch women were active in such international organizations as:\n\nWomen were praised for their resilience throughout the Hunger Winter of 1944-5 when food and fuel were blocked by the Nazi military. A period of conservatism followed for several years, but two notable legal milestones were achieved during the 1950s: in 1955, the law changed so that women could no longer be forced from civil service jobs after marrying, and in 1956, married women became legally competent. The marriage bar was removed in 1957.\n\nA 1967 essay by Joke Kool-Smits, \"The Discontent of Women\", was published in \"De Gids\" and is credited with launching second-wave feminism in the Netherlands. The next year, a group of feminist men and women banded together to create the activist group \"Man-Vrouw-Maatschappij\" (Man-Woman society, or MVM). Its dual-gender composition made it rare among Western Second-wave feminist organizations, but it was similar to others in that its membership was predominantly middle or upper class and well-educated. Dissatisfied with the lobbying efforts of the MVM, a more radical group was inspired. The all-female Dolle Mina society was founded in 1969, naming itself \"Mad Mina\" after pioneering Dutch feminist Wilhelmina Drucker. Dolle Mina had success as a consciousness-raising force during the 1970s, mainly through its use of imaginative protests, such as an outdoor \"Discrimination Fair\" to draw attention to the issue of equal pay for equal work.\n\nThe 1976 publication of Anja Meulenbelt's novel \"De Schaamte Voorbij\" (\"The Shame is Over\") was another important piece of second-wave feminist writing in the Netherlands. The novel was confessional in tone, and made the connection between the body and language politics overt. In the late 1970s, the fight for access to abortion, rape crisis centres, and women's shelters became a dominant focus of the feminist movement. In 1980, the government was financially supporting 30 rape crisis centres in the Netherlands. During the 1970s, feminist periodicals multiplied, such as \"Dolle Mina\", \"Vrouwen\", \"Opzij\", \"Serpentine\", \"Vrouwenkrant\", and \"Lover\", and there were several feminist publishing houses in Amsterdam, the best known being De Bonte Was (1972) and Sara (1976). In 1982, an estimated 160 feminist groups were active in the Netherlands, covering 25% of Dutch towns. The 1980s saw many victories for the feminist movement, including the disintegration of the male breadwinner logic as the Netherlands began to prioritize re-gearing the welfare state in favor of incorporating women into the workforce. The Abortion Bill was passed in 1981, and came into force in 1984. In 1984 married women also obtained full legal equality in family law - prior to 1984 the law stipulated that the husband's opinion prevailed over the wife's regarding issues such as decisions on children's education and the domicile of the family. In 1991, the Netherlands removed the marital exemption form its rape law. In 2000, in a move which remains controversial, the Netherlands overhauled its legislation on prostitution, liberalizing the laws and legalizing regulated brothels (although prostitution in brothels had been \"de facto\" tolerated throughout the second part of the 20th century).\n\nDespite having won many legal and social battles over the course of the 20th century, Dutch feminists are not ready to claim victory. Feminist activity continues in the Netherlands, and gender equality continues to be a topic of discussion in organizations, and in the media. Areas of concern remain the low participation of women in full-time employment and their low presence in top executive positions, violence against women, and discrimination against ethnic minority women.\n\nFrom the 1970s onwards, the Netherlands has started promoting policies based on gender equality;\nand has once been described as having \"the most extensive and comprehensive [sex equality apparatus] in Europe\"; this is largely due to the appointment of a State Secretary to oversee an Emancipation Council launched in 1977, and its implementation of policies at the local level with help from feminist activists recruited into government positions. Women of colour have seen the need to create new organizations to advance gaps in meeting their needs: a Moroccan women's group was formed in 1992, and a Surinamese women's group was formed in 1996.\n\nDespite the Netherlands having an image as progressive on gender issues, women in the Netherlands work less in paid employment than women in other comparable Western countries. In the early 1980s, the Commission of the European Communities report \"Women in the European Community\" fount that \"it is in the Netherlands (17.6%) and in Ireland (13.6%) that we see the smallest numbers of married women working and the least acceptance of this phenomenon by the general public\". (pg 14).\nIn the following years the numbers of women entering the workplace have increased, but with most of the women working part time.\n\nThere is currently a great deal of debate in the Netherlands over whether women simply prefer to care for their children themselves and work reduced hours, or if higher costs are holding women back from seeking further employment. Economist, lawyer and journalist Helen Mees wrote a book exploring the issue of women's low employment rate, called \"Weg met het deeltijdfeminisme\" (\"Away with Part-time Feminism\") in 2005. She identified differences between Dutch and American culture that partially explain the discrepancy in working hours between women in the two nations. In her book, Mees discusses the American \"marketization\" of much of women's former household duties, such as using businesses for laundry, eating out, having groceries delivered, and other services, which are rarely available in the Netherlands. Childcare is the largest expense for two-income families in the Netherlands, and since it is customarily paid by the hour, this may provide an incentive for families to reduce childcare costs by having the mother do more child-minding and less paid employment.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", fewer men had to fight in the World Wars of the 20th century, and so Dutch women did not experience working for pay at rates women in other countries did. The wealth of the country, coupled with the fact that \"[Dutch] politics was dominated by Christian values until the 1980s\" meant that Dutch women were slower to enter into the workforce. In 2011, the Netherlands, together with Germany and Austria, were identified by the European Commission as countries with a poor integration of women in the workforce; Jose Manuel Barroso stated \"Germany, but also Austria and the Netherlands, should look at the example of the northern countries.\" As of 2014, the Netherlands had the highest percentage of part-time women workers in the OECD.\n\nThere has been criticism that the Netherlands has constructed a policy focused on emphasizing the alleged difference between 'liberated' ethnic Dutch women and 'oppressed' immigrant women, creating a discriminatory dichotomy of \"us \"vs\". them\". The CEDAW committee stated that \"[t]he Committee remains concerned about the persistence of gender-role stereotypes, in particular about immigrant and migrant \nwomen and men, both of which are portrayed as being backward and having traditional views about women, denying their right to full development.\"\n\nViolence against women remains a problem in the Netherlands: according to a 2014 study published by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, the Netherlands had the fourth highest prevalence rate of physical and sexual violence against women in Europe, with 45% of women having experienced such violence, which is well above the European average of 33%.\nThe Netherlands was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights in 1985 in the case of \"X and Y v. the Netherlands\", for inadequate prosecution of sexual violence. In 2015, the Netherlands ratified the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (Istanbul Convention).\n\nAn important (and controversial) contemporary activist is Ayaan Hirsi Ali a Somali-born Dutch-American dual citizen activist, author, and politician. She is critical of female genital mutilation and Islam, and supportive of women's rights and atheism.\n\n"}
{"id": "42412671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42412671", "title": "Feminist metaphysics", "text": "Feminist metaphysics\n\nWhere metaphysics tries to explain what is the universe and what it is like, feminist metaphysics questions how metaphysical answers have supported sexism. Are ideas we have about fundamental subjects like: the self, mind and body, nature, essence, and identity formed with gendered bias? For instance, feminist metaphysics would ask if Cartesian dualism—the concept of humans having minds separate from our bodies—privileges men or masculinity.\n\nThe famous quote “One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman,” coined by Simone de Beauvoir, can be considered feminist metaphysical critique. De Beauvoir does not deny that some people are born with female body parts, but that those body parts need not imply how one is socially situated. Yet for many societies being in possession of those body parts prescribes social roles, norms, and activities, and the differences are said to be necessary, because they are natural.\n\nSince de Beauvoir many feminists have presented the view that social hierarchies are perpetuated by the fallacy that they are metaphysically \"natural\". In fact, the power that comes from naturalising myths about universal categories, has made feminists wary of accepting that any category at all is \"natural\". And subsequently a response is that any such supposedly \"natural\" category, should not be a basis for how we organize ourselves socially.\n\nIf being a woman is not due to \"situation\", like biology, de Beauvoir claims that it is due to \"instrumentality\" of women's freedom. Critic Judith Butler finds this problematic because de Beauvoir's reasoning, now plots \"situation\" against \"instrumentality\", plays into Cartesian body-freedom dualism.\n\n"}
{"id": "39481862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39481862", "title": "Forte (typeface)", "text": "Forte (typeface)\n\nForte is a script typeface designed by Austrian commercial artist Carl Reissberger in 1962 for the Monotype Corporation.\nThe idea for the script face came from the study of plants, individual letterforms being inspired by the long stems and furry heads of the reed. It is intended to give a contrast to sans-serif and classical modern types. Adobe suggests the optimal viewing size to 18.0 points.\nForte has characters in the following Unicode ranges:\n\n"}
{"id": "17907789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17907789", "title": "Giusto Traina", "text": "Giusto Traina\n\nGiusto Traina (born 1959) is an Italian historian and professor of Roman history at the Paris-Sorbonne University, senior member of the Institut Universitaire de France.\nHe is the author of several books and articles . Formerly interested in ancient landscapes and techniques, he is currently involved in a long-term research about ancient Armenia.\n\nHe was awarded the Prize \"Cherasco Storia\" (2011), for his book \"La resa di Roma. Battaglia a Carre, 9 giugno 53 a.C.\"(Laterza 2010).\n\nHe was recently Fellow of the Berliner Antike-Kolleg (Summer 2014), of the Bogliasco Foundation (February 2016), and of the Topoi Excellence Cluster at Berlin (Spring 2016; Summer 2017).\n\nHe was Dumanian Visiting Professor at the University of Chicago (Spring term 2017)\n"}
{"id": "12827691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12827691", "title": "Grateful dead (folklore)", "text": "Grateful dead (folklore)\n\nGrateful dead (or grateful ghost) is a folktale present in many cultures throughout the world. The most common story involves a traveler who encounters a corpse of someone who never received a proper burial, typically stemming from an unpaid debt. The traveler then either pays off the dead person's debt or pays for burial. The traveler is later rewarded or has their life saved by a person or animal who is actually the soul of the dead person; the grateful dead is a form of the donor.\n\nThe \"grateful dead\" story is Aarne–Thompson–Uther type 505.\n\nAn ancient Egyptian text explains the principle of reciprocity in which the deceased calls for a blessing on the person who remembers his name and helps him into a happy afterlife:\nBut if there be a man, any one whomsoever, who beholdeth this writing and causeth my soul and my name to become established among those who are blessed, let it be done for him likewise after his final arriving (at the end of life's voyage) in recompense for what was done by him for me, Osiris.\n\nOne variant is the Book of Tobit. The chivalric romance \"Amadas\" has the title knight pay his last coins for such a burial. It appears in various fairy tales, such as the Italian \"Fair Brow\", the Swedish \"The Bird 'Grip'\" and H. C. Andersen's \"The Traveling Companion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4286678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4286678", "title": "Hooray for Diffendoofer Day!", "text": "Hooray for Diffendoofer Day!\n\nHooray for Diffendoofer Day! is a children's book credited to Dr. Seuss \"with some help from Jack Prelutsky and Lane Smith\". The book is based on verses and sketches created by Seuss before his death in 1991, and was expanded to book length and completed by writer Prelutsky and illustrator Smith for publication in 1998.\n\nThe story surrounds a school that is well liked by its students notably because of its many eccentric teachers. However, the students must make a good grade on a standardized test (which turns out in the end to be a revising test on multiple subjects they regularly learn) lest they be sent to an adjacent school, which requires uniforms to be worn and is incredibly dull.\n"}
{"id": "23599948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23599948", "title": "In Theory Only", "text": "In Theory Only\n\nIn Theory Only () was a peer-reviewed academic journal specializing in music theory and analysis. It began publication in 1975, under the auspices of graduate students in music theory at the University of Michigan School of Music, Theatre & Dance, making it the first of the graduate-student produced theory journals to debut in the U.S. (followed two years later by \"Indiana Theory Review\"). The journal initially employed the subtitle \"Newsletter of the Michigan Music Theory Society\" (later dropped). The journal is no longer published.\n"}
{"id": "33208161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33208161", "title": "Israelite Tower", "text": "Israelite Tower\n\nThe Israelite Tower () is an archaeological site in Jerusalem's Jewish Quarter. The site features remains of the city's Iron Age fortifications which were later incorporated into the Hasmonean city walls. It was excavated by Israeli archaeologist Nahman Avigad during the 1970s. Finds unearthed at the site attest to the Babylonian destruction of Jerusalem in 586 BCE.\n\nBetween 1969 and 1982 Nahman Avigad conducted extensive excavations in the Jewish Quarter, situated on Jerusalem's southwestern hill. These excavations, covering an area of some 5 acres, proved crucial for the understanding of the history of settlement in this section of the old city. In the northern part of the quarter, Avigad and his team uncovered three well-preserved segments of late Iron Age (First Temple Period) fortifications. One of these was the Israelite Tower, described as \"one of the most impressive fortification remains from biblical times to have been found in the land of Israel\".\n\nSlightly north of the Broad Wall, excavations revealed two perpendicular walls about wide and surviving to a maximal height of . One is long, running from east to west, and the other long and runs from north to south. Standing on bedrock 45 feet below modern ground level, the walls were built of rough-hewn field stones placed in courses along both faces, with the spaces in-between filled with small stones. A surface of beaten earth tightly bonded to the tower, covered by ashes, produced Late Iron Age II sherds characteristic of the 8th and 7th centuries BCE. Avigad identified the tower as the corner of a four-chambered gatehouse in Jerusalem's northern wall, perhaps the \"Middle Gate\" mentioned in . It had been built to protect the city's vulnerable northern perimeter, probably during the 8th century BCE but perhaps during the reign of Menasseh in the 7th century BCE. It is physically close to the Broad Wall, built during the reign of king Hezekiah, but appears to have come into use after the Broad Wall had already fallen into disuse.\n\nFinds at the tower attest to a battle. On the last day of the 1975 excavation season, Avigad's team unearthed four arrowheads buried in the layer of soot and ashes at the base of the tower. One was made of iron and the other three of bronze, including one distinguished from the others by three triangular fins and a hollow socket for the shaft. This was identified as a Scytho-Iranian type in widespread use by Babylonian archers after 600 BCE. As the pottery found within the conflagration layer is dated earlier than 586 BCE, the range of dates for the possible battle at the site is reduced significantly. The four arrowheads are therefore likely remnants of the Babylonian siege and destruction of Jerusalem in 586 BCE. They are thought to be the first remains ever recovered of the Babylonian siege, having come to rest in the ashes of the burning city, as described in .\n\nAvigad's discoveries also provided an answer to a contemporary debate about the extent of Iron Age Jerusalem. Before the excavation of the Jewish quarter, scholars had been divided between those that believed the city had been confined to its eastern ridge, including the Temple Mount and the City of David, and those who believed the biblical city has already expanded to encompass the southwestern hill. Avigad's discoveries, since augmented by additional finds, had proven that by the end of the First Temple period, Jerusalem's city walls had expanded to the Hinnom Valley in the west and had encompassed the entire southwestern hill.\n\nAbutting and incorporating the Israelite Tower are the remains of another tower and city wall. Shaped like the Greek letter , the tower extends north from the wall. Constructed of medium-size, well-cut, close-fitting rectangular ashlars, the tower walls are long and between 2.5m and 3m thick. The masonry is characteristic of the 1st or 2nd centuries BCE, as is the pottery found on and below another surface bonded to the wall, 1.3 meters above the earlier 6th century floor. These have linked the later defences to the Hasmonean \"First Wall\", described in detail in Josephus' \"The Jewish War\". Although Josephus erroneously attributes it to David, Solomon and the kings of Judah, construction of the wall was initiated by Jonathan Maccabeus and completed by his brother Simon during the 2nd century BCE. A nearby gap between fragments of the wall hints that another city gate stood at the site, possibly the Gennath gate also mentioned by Josephus.\n\nThe Israelite Tower is located at the modern junction of Plugot HaKotel and Shonei HaLakhot streets, preserved underneath a school. Access is limited and requires reservation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16789225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16789225", "title": "Kvetera Church", "text": "Kvetera Church\n\nKvetera Church () is a Georgian Orthodox church in a historic fortified town of Kvetera in Kakheti.\n\nKvetera Church was built in the early part of the 10th century. It is a relatively small church and resembles the Georgian cross-dome style of architecture. The dome rests on a round tympanum and rises over the central square pace. The Projections end in an apse, which have niches between them. The facade of the church is not designed with a lot of ornaments which is typical for Kakhetian churches. Most of the facade is decorated with symmetrical arches. \n\nTown of Kvetera used to one of the center of the Principality of Kakheti. According to Vakhushti Bagrationi, Kvetera dates back at least to 8th century AD. It is also mentioned in the written document from the 11th century.\n"}
{"id": "23292269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23292269", "title": "Mobile shelving", "text": "Mobile shelving\n\nMobile shelving, mobile aisle shelving, roller racking, or rolling stack, are terms applied to shelving or storage units fitted with wheeled traction systems. Units can be closely packed when access is not required, but can be readily moved to open up an aisle to allow access. By eliminating the need for a permanently open aisle between every unit, a smaller proportion of floor space can be allocated to storage than in the case of conventional fixed shelving, or a higher capacity of storage can be met using the same footprint as fixed shelving.\n\nEach shelving unit is normally mounted on a level trackway (to eliminate gradients in the supporting floor), making it possible to move heavy units with minimal effort. Mobile shelving can be moved manually or by the use of electrical motors. The track/flooring can either sit on top of an existing floor or be integrated into raised access flooring allowing for a smooth transition between unit and surrounding floor levels.\n\nMobile storage systems are usually constructed with a rotary handle on the exterior accessible face. When rotated, the handle operates the mechanism which winds the single, connected, filing unit either left or right, depending on a clockwise or counter-clockwise rotation of the handle. In an office, for example, several stacks of movable filing cabinets may be accommodated in a limited space.\n\nDrive mechanisms vary; traditionally systems were offered with chain drive but modern technology allows belt drive systems which provides smooth, quiet operation.\n\nAlthough the \"bays of shelving\" that sit on the mobile chassis come in many standard sizes, they can be mixed to create run lengths of shelving to maximise the room length.\n\nThe tracks can be installed onto many different types of floor and on different levels. The tracks themselves can either have a false floor running in between so that the tracks do not become trip hazards, or they can be put into the floor (usually concrete floor) or have small ramps on either side of the tracks. Either option creates a hazard-free floor and track system.\n\nPowered shelving is electrically powered. Units normally have a small AC or DC motor hidden in the base that automatically moves the units when a single button is pressed. High-end versions connect into archiving databases, and using RFID allows the easy retrieval of archived items with auto-open and close functions.\n\nMobile aisle shelving is typically used for academic or commercial applications where a significant volume of physical archive material, filing or books is to be stored. These include medical or government records, file-intensive offices such as the legal or accountancy professions, and public and academic libraries and similar archives. \n\nAnother common use is in retail stockrooms to maximise the stock capacity, or to reduce the back of house storage space required so that a greater proportion of the overall shop space can be used for customer retail purposes.\n\nA typical bank of mobile office shelving units offers close to a 50% reduction of floor space, or a 50% to 100% increase in storage space, compared to traditional filing cabinets. The ability to concertina individual units until touching means space is only required between units when they are being accessed by users. Applications with a greater number of simultaneous users may require more access spaces (aisles), thus not approaching this 50% target so closely.\n\nWhen the bank of units is closed, the contents are protected from light and dust, and the whole bank of units can be secured by locking the end unit(s) in place. This makes mobile shelving ideal for holding museum and archive collections.\n\n"}
{"id": "928080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=928080", "title": "Mountain white", "text": "Mountain white\n\nMountain whites were usually poor whites living in the Southern United States in Pre-Civil War America. They inhabited the valleys of the Appalachian range from western Virginia to northern Georgia and Alabama.\n\nThey were often isolated from the rest of Southern society and civilization. Because of this, they did not own slaves and were likelier to be critical of slavery. As independent small farmers living on the harsh frontier, their interests were starkly different from those of white Southerners that lived on commercial plantations or in large cities. They were also able to retain many of their customs they brought over from Europe that had long since died out in Europe. \n\nDuring the Civil War, some communities of mountain whites were deeply split by those who identified with the Union and those who identified with the Confederacy. Pro-Union attitudes were likelier to prevail among mountain whites in a few states like Virginia, where this sentiment was seen as one of the leading causes of the West Virginia's secession from the rest of the state.\n\nMountain whites also developed their own styles of music which borrowed from Scottish and Irish tradition as many were of Scots-Irish descent. The music of mountain whites contributed heavily to the formation of bluegrass music.\n\n"}
{"id": "6592001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6592001", "title": "Musaeum Tradescantianum", "text": "Musaeum Tradescantianum\n\nThe Musaeum Tradescantianum was the first museum open to the public to be established in England. Located in Vauxhall in south London, it comprised a collection of curiosities assembled by John Tradescant the elder and his son in a building called The Ark, and a botanical collection in the grounds of the building. Turret House, the family home, was demolished in 1881 and the estate has been redeveloped; the house stood on the site of the present Tradescant Road and Walberswick Street, off South Lambeth Road.\n\nTradescant divided the exhibits into natural objects (\"naturalia\") and manmade objects (\"artificialia\"). The first account of the collection, by Peter Mundy, is from 1634. After the death of the younger Tradescant and his wife, the collection passed into the hands of the wealthy collector Elias Ashmole, who in 1691 gave it to Oxford University as the nucleus of the newly founded Ashmolean Museum.\n\nThe Tradescant collection is the earliest major English cabinet of curiosities. Other famous collections in Europe preceded it, for example Emperor Rudolf II's Kunst- und Wunderkammer was well established at Prague by the end of the 16th century. The Garden Museum has recently received a £3.5 million Heritage Lottery grant to recreate a part of the original Ark with loans from the Ashmolean Museum\n\n"}
{"id": "21309716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21309716", "title": "Orangism (Luxembourg)", "text": "Orangism (Luxembourg)\n\nOrangism was a movement in the 19th century Grand Duchy of Luxembourg favouring the personal union of the Netherlands and Luxembourg under the House of Orange-Nassau. Made up of many notable figures, mainly nobles and Roman Catholic clergy, they were moderate liberals or conservative-liberals and slightly anti-clerical. At first they favoured maintaining the Grand Duchy's autonomous status and, especially during the Belgian Revolution, opposed it being merged into Belgium. In the end the western part of the Grand Duchy (the present province of Luxembourg) passed to Belgium, whilst the eastern part and the Orange grand duchy continued as an independent state. In 1890 the heads of the House of Orange were grand dukes of Luxembourg, but on the death of king and grand duke William III in 1890 he was succeeded by his relation Adolphe as grand duke since Luxembourg's constitution did not allow a woman (Princess Wilhelmina) to hold the throne. The movement's newsletter was the \"Journal de la Ville et du Pays Luxembourg\".\n\nThe movement was led by Gaspard-Théodore-Ignace de la Fontaine (1787–1871) and other notable members included:\n"}
{"id": "377819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377819", "title": "Pagliacci", "text": "Pagliacci\n\nPagliacci (; literal translation, \"Clowns\") is an Italian opera in a prologue and two acts, with music and libretto by Ruggero Leoncavallo. It is the only Leoncavallo opera that is still widely performed. Opera companies have frequently staged \"Pagliacci\" with \"Cavalleria rusticana\" by Mascagni, a double bill known colloquially as 'Cav and Pag'.\n\n\"Pagliacci\" premiered at the Teatro Dal Verme in Milan on 21 May 1892, conducted by Arturo Toscanini, with Adelina Stehle as Nedda, Fiorello Giraud as Canio, Victor Maurel as Tonio, and Mario Ancona as Silvio. Nellie Melba played Nedda in London in 1893, soon after the Italian premiere, and it was given in New York on 15 June 1893, with Agostino Montegriffo as Canio.\n\nAround 1890, when Pietro Mascagni's \"Cavalleria rusticana\" premiered, Leoncavallo was a little-known composer. After seeing Mascagni's success, he decided to write an opera in response: one act composed in the verismo style. Leoncavallo wrote that he based the story of \"Pagliacci\" on an incident from his childhood: a murder in 1865, the victim of which was a Leoncavallo family servant, Gaetano Scavello. The murderer was Gaetano D'Alessandro, with his brother Luigi an accomplice to the crime. The incident resulted from a series of perceived romantic entanglements involving Scavello, Luigi D'Alessandro, and a village girl with whom both men were infatuated. Leoncavallo's father, a judge, was the presiding magistrate over the criminal investigation.\n\nUpon learning of the plot of Leoncavallo's libretto in an 1894 French translation, the French author Catulle Mendès thought it resembled his 1887 play \"La Femme de Tabarin\", such as the play-within-the-play and the clown murdering his wife. Mendès sued Leoncavallo for plagiarism. The composer pleaded ignorance of Mendès' play. Later there were counter-accusations that Mendès' play resembled that of Don Manuel Tamayo y Baus' \"Un Drama Nuevo\" (1867). Mendès dropped his lawsuit. However, the scholar Matteo Sansone has suggested that, as Leoncavallo was a notable student of French culture, and lived in Paris from 1882 to 1888, he had ample opportunity to be exposed to new French art and musical works. These would potentially have included Mendès' play, another version of \"La femme de Tabarin\" by Paul Ferrier, and \"Tabarin\", an opera composed by Émile Pessard that was based on Ferrier's play. Sansone has elaborated on the many parallels among the Mendès, Ferrier, and Pessard versions of the Tabarin story and \"Pagliacci\", noting that Leoncavallo deliberately minimised any sort of connection between his opera and those earlier French works.\n\nLeoncavallo originally titled his story \"Il pagliaccio\" (\"The Clown\"). The baritone Victor Maurel, who was cast as the first Tonio, requested that Leoncavallo change the title from the singular \"Il pagliaccio\" to the plural \"Pagliacci\", to broaden dramatic interest from Canio alone to include Tonio (his own role).\n\n\"Pagliacci\" received mixed critical reviews upon its world premiere, but was instantly successful with the public and has remained so ever since. The UK premiere of \"Pagliacci\" took place at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, in London on 19 May 1893. The US premiere followed a month later at Grand Opera House in New York on 15 June, with American born tenor Agostino Montegriffo as Canio. The Metropolitan Opera first staged the work on 11 December as a double-bill with \"Orfeo ed Euridice\", with Nellie Melba in the role of Nedda.\n\nThe Met again staged \"Pagliacci\" as a double-bill, this time followed by \"Cavalleria rusticana\" on 22 December 1893. The two operas have since been frequently performed as a double-bill, a pairing referred to in the operatic world colloquially as 'Cav and Pag'. \"Pagliacci\" was produced alone in Washington National Opera's November 1997 production by Franco Zeffirelli. The re-organised New York City Opera presented \"Pagliacci\" in 2016 on a double bill with Rachmaninoff's \"Aleko\".\n\nDuring the overture, the curtain rises. From behind a second curtain, Tonio, dressed as his commedia character Taddeo, addresses the audience (\"Si può?... Si può?... Signore! Signori! ... Un nido di memorie\"). He reminds the audience that actors have feelings too, and that the show is about real people.\n\nAt three o'clock in the afternoon, the commedia troupe enters the village to the cheering of the villagers. Canio describes the night's performance: the troubles of Pagliaccio. He says the play will begin at \"ventitré ore\", an agricultural method of time-keeping that means the play will begin an hour before sunset. As Nedda steps down from the cart, Tonio offers his hand, but Canio pushes him aside and helps her down himself.\n\nThe villagers suggest drinking at the tavern. Canio and Beppe accept, but Tonio stays behind. The villagers tease Canio that Tonio is planning an affair with Nedda. Canio warns everyone that while he may act the foolish husband in the play, in real life he will not tolerate other men making advances to Nedda. Shocked, a villager asks if Canio really suspects her. He says no, and sweetly kisses her on the forehead. As the church bells ring vespers, he and Beppe leave for the tavern, leaving Nedda alone.\n\nNedda is frightened by Canio's vehemence (\"Qual fiamma avea nel guardo\"), but the birdsong comforts her (\"Stridono lassù\"). Tonio returns and confesses his love for her, but she laughs. Enraged, Tonio grabs Nedda, but she takes a whip, strikes him and drives him off. Silvio, who is Nedda's lover, comes from the tavern, where he has left Canio and Beppe drinking. He asks Nedda to elope with him after the performance and, though she is afraid, she agrees. Tonio, who has been eavesdropping, leaves to inform Canio so that he might catch Silvio and Nedda together. Canio and Tonio return and, as Silvio escapes, Nedda calls after him, \"I will always be yours!\"\n\nCanio chases Silvio, but does not catch him and does not see his face. He demands that Nedda tell him the name of her lover, but she refuses. He threatens her with a knife, but Beppe disarms him. Beppe insists that they prepare for the performance. Tonio tells Canio that her lover will give himself away at the play. Canio is left alone to put on his costume and prepares to laugh (\"Vesti la giubba\" – \"Put on the costume\").\n\nAs the crowd arrives, Nedda, costumed as Colombina, collects their money. She whispers a warning to Silvio, and the crowd cheers as the play begins.\n\nColombina's husband Pagliaccio has gone away until morning, and Taddeo is at the market. She anxiously awaits her lover Arlecchino, who comes to serenade her (\"\") from beneath her window. Taddeo returns and confesses his love, but she mocks him. She lets Arlecchino in through the window. He boxes Taddeo's ears and kicks him out of the room, and the audience laughs.\n\nArlecchino and Colombina dine, and he gives her a sleeping potion to use later. When Pagliaccio returns, Colombina will drug him and elope with Arlecchino. Taddeo bursts in, warning that Pagliaccio is suspicious of his wife and is about to return. As Arlecchino escapes through the window, Colombina tells him, \"I will always be yours!\"\n\nAs Canio (as Pagliaccio) enters, he hears Nedda (as Colombina) and exclaims \"Name of God! Those same words!\" He tries to continue the play, but loses control and demands to know her lover's name. Nedda, hoping to keep to the performance, calls Canio by his stage name \"Pagliaccio,\" to remind him of the audience's presence. He answers with his arietta: \"\" He sings that if his face is pale, it is not from the stage makeup but from the shame she has brought him. The crowd, impressed by his emotional performance, which they do not realize is real, cheers him.\n\nNedda, trying to continue the play, admits that she has been visited by the innocent Arlecchino. Canio, furious and forgetting the play, demands the name of her lover. Nedda swears she will never tell him, and it becomes apparent that they are not acting. Beppe asks Tonio to intervene, but Tonio refrains and prevents Beppe from halting the action. Silvio begins to fight his way toward the stage. Canio, grabbing a knife from the table, stabs Nedda. As she dies, she calls: \"Help! Silvio!\" Silvio attacks Canio, but Canio kills Silvio also. The horrified audience then hears the celebrated final line:\n\nIn the original manuscript, Tonio sang the opera's final line, \"\", paralleling the prologue, also sung by Tonio. The appropriation of this final line by Canio dates back to 1895. John Wright has analysed the dramaturgy of the opera in the context of assignment of the final line, and concluded that the original assignment of the final line to Tonio is the most consistent and appropriate assignment. Wright says that Tonio shows more deliberate control in his manipulation of the other characters in order to obtain his revenge upon Nedda, after she has rejected him, and is more aware of the demarcation between life and art. By contrast, Canio is unaware of the behind-the-scenes manipulations and surrenders control of his perception of the difference between life and art as the opera proceeds.\n\nIn the present day, the assignment of the final line to Canio has continued to be standard. Several exceptions, where Tonio delivers the final line, include:\n\nThe orchestra consists of 2 flutes, 1 piccolo, 2 oboes, 1 cor anglais, 2 clarinets, 1 bass clarinet, 3 bassoons, 4 horns, 3 trumpets, 3 trombones, 1 tuba, 2 harps, timpani, tubular bells, percussion (triangle, cymbals, bass drum, glockenspiel) and strings. Additionally, there is an onstage violin, oboe, trumpet, and bass drum. Also included in the final pages of the score is a part in the percussion section marked \"T.T.\" (not assigned in the instrumentation page at the beginning.) Performers have taken this to be a tam-tam (partly because Mascagni used one, although to much greater effect, on the final moments of \"Cavalleria rusticana\"). It is given three strokes right after the announcement that \"The comedy is over\".\n\nIn 1907, \"Pagliacci\" became the first opera to be recorded in its entirety, with the Puerto Rican tenor Antonio Paoli as Canio and under Leoncavallo's personal supervision. In 1931, it became the first complete opera to be filmed with sound, in a now-obscure version starring the tenor Fernando Bertini as Canio, in his only film, with the San Carlo Opera Company. Franco Zeffirelli directed his 1981 La Scala production with Plácido Domingo and Teresa Stratas for a 1982 television airing, which has since been released on DVD. The movie's soundtrack received a Grammy nomination for Best Opera Recording. \"Pagliacci\" was also recorded in English in 1997, and released commercially in 1998, for the Chandos \"Opera in English\" label with Dennis O'Neill as Canio, Alan Opie as Tonio, and Rosa Mannion as Nedda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2878176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2878176", "title": "Penult", "text": "Penult\n\nPenult is a linguistics term for the second to last syllable of a word. It is an abbreviation of \"penultimate\", which describes the next-to-last item in a series. The penult follows the antepenult and precedes the ultima. For example, the main stress falls on the penult in such English words as \"banána\", and \"Mississíppi\". Occasionally, \"penult\" refers to the last word but one of a sentence.\n\nThe terms are often used in reference to languages like Latin and Ancient Greek, where the position of the pitch accent or stress of a word only falls on one of the last three syllables, and sometimes in discussing poetic meter.\n\nIn certain languages, such as Welsh, stress is always on the penult.\n\n"}
{"id": "3397531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3397531", "title": "Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy", "text": "Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy\n\nThe Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy (\"PRIA\") is the journal of the Royal Irish Academy, founded in 1785 to promote the study of science, polite literature, and antiquities. It was known as several titles over the years:\n\nIn 1902, the journal split into three sections \"Section A: Mathematical and Physical Sciences\", \"Section B: Biological, Geological, and Chemical Science\" and \"Section C: Archaeology, Culture, History, Literature\". \"Section A\" is now published as \"Mathematical Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy\" since 1998, and \"Section B\" is now published as \"Biology and Environment: Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy\". \"Section C\" is now \"Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy: Archaeology, Culture, History, Literature\".\n"}
{"id": "45665142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45665142", "title": "Public opinion about U.S. drone attacks", "text": "Public opinion about U.S. drone attacks\n\nDrones are used by the military in situations where manned flight is considered too risky or difficult. The United States Air Force has drones that range from small intelligence drones to surveillance drones and large spy planes. The drones are unmanned, but they have a pilot. Trained crew steer the craft through cameras that send back what they see.\n\nThe military began using these crafts to strike suspected militants in Pakistan’s tribal areas under President George W Bush, but the use of drones has almost doubled since the Obama administration took office.\n\nThe year before the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, drone funding stood at around $284 million. By the fiscal year 2016, the Pentagon spent close to $3 billion on drones. Since their start 3,900 people have been killed in 422 strikes in Pakistan, where the drones are controlled by the Central Intelligence Agency. The controversy of drones stems from the American people’s concern of using advanced technologies to kill an enemy in foreign countries.\n\nSince drone strikes had been first used in Pakistan in 2008, members of the military have had differing views on the tactic. Supporters of drone strikes believe that this use of unmanned attacks coerce the civilian population to support the counterinsurgent force. Members of the military also believe that the non-human nature of drones and the distance from the civilians when their attack make them dangerous.\n\nMonmouth University Poll on July 25–30, 2013 asked 1,012 adults nationwide the question \"How much have you read or heard about the use of unmanned surveillance aircraft, sometimes called drones, by the U.S. military overseas: a great deal, some, just a little, or nothing at all?\" 29% replied a great deal, 31% some, 25% just a little and 15% said nothing at all (margin of error of 3.1) The same group of people were asked the question \"How confident are you that FEDERAL law enforcement agencies will use drones appropriately: very, somewhat, not too, or not at all confident?\" 11% said very confident, 36% somewhat confident, 18% not too confident, 31% not confident at all and 4% unsure (margin of error of 3.1).\n\nIn a poll was taken by Fox News in February 2013 with a margin of error of 3, the majority of Democrats, Republicans and Independents approve of the use of drones to kill a suspected foreign terrorist on US soil. They also collectively disapprove of killing a suspected terrorist who is a US citizen on US soil using drones.\n\nThe same group of people were asked the question \"Do you think the president of the United States, on his own, should be able to authorize the use of deadly force, such as a drone strike, to kill a suspected terrorist who is a U.S. citizen on U.S. soil?\" This question was asked while Barack Obama was in office. The public answered by 32% of people saying yes, 63% of people saying no, and 5% of people saying they were unsure (margin of error of 3).\n\nIn February 2013, Fairleigh Dickinson University's PublicMind poll conducted a study to measure U.S. public opinion on the use of drones. The study was conducted nationwide, and it asked registered voters whether they \"approve or disapprove of the U.S. Military using drones to carry out attacks abroad on people and other targets deemed a threat to the U.S.?\" The results showed that three in every four (75%) of voters approved of the U.S. military using drones to carry out attacks, while (13%) disapproved.\n\nAnother poll in February 2013 conducted by the Huffington Post was more equivocal: 56% of Americans support using drones to kill \"high-level terrorists\", 13% support using drones to kill \"anyone associated with terrorists\", 16% thought no one should be killed with drones, and 15% were not sure.\n\nOutside America, support for drones is far lower. A Pew Research study of 20 countries in 2012 found widespread international opposition to US drone killings. One reason for this is that there is a shortage of media coverage for drone strikes and the procedure involved with them. This can cause a sense of unease pertaining to the use of drones. The web aggregator blog \"3 Quarks Daily\" in partnership with the Netherlands-based \"Dialogue Advisory Group\" hosted a symposium on drone attacks in 2013.\n\nA 2015 poll conducted by Jacquelyn Schneider and Julia Macdonald for Center for New American Security qualified some of this perceived support for drone strikes by giving respondents a chance to choose between drones, manned, neither platform, or both to conduct air strikes. They found that, while the American public was more likely to support unmanned than manned air strikes by approximately 10-15 percentage points, this support for unmanned was much less pronounced than previous polls suggested. In many cases the U.S. public supported air strikes from both manned and unmanned at similar rates.\n"}
{"id": "33541929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33541929", "title": "Racial achievement gap in the United States", "text": "Racial achievement gap in the United States\n\nThe racial achievement gap in the United States refers to the educational disparities between various ethnic groups. It manifests itself in a variety of ways: among students, blacks and Hispanics are more likely to receive lower grades, score lower on standardized tests, drop out of high school, and they are less likely to enter and complete college than whites, who similarly score lower than East Asians who originate from the rich industrialized developed countries of Taiwan, Japan, Singapore, South Korea and China.\n\nOver the past 45 years, students in the United States have made notable gains in academic achievement. However, the racial achievement gap remains because not all groups of students are advancing at the same rates. Evidence of the racial achievement gap has been manifested through standardized test scores, high school dropout rates, high school completion rates, college acceptance and retention rates, as well as through longitudinal trends. While efforts to close the racial achievement gap have increased over the years with varying success, studies have shown that disparities still exist between achievement levels of minorities compared to their White counterparts.\n\nThe racial achievement gap has been found to exist before students enter kindergarten for their first year of schooling. At the start of kindergarten, Hispanic and black students have math and reading scores substantially lower than those of white students. While both Hispanics and blacks scores have significantly lower test scores than their white counterparts, Hispanic and black have scores that are roughly equal to each other. In a study published in 2009, Reardon and Galindo (2009) specifically examine test scores by race and ethnicity. The data Reardon and Galindo (2009) use comes from the ECLS-K, sponsored by the National Center for Education Statistics. The ECLS-K contains data on a nationally representative sample of approximately 21,400 students from the kindergarten class of 1998–1999. Students in the sample were assessed in reading and mathematics skills six times from 1998 to 2004. The content areas of the tests are based on the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) fourth-grade content areas, adapted to be age appropriate at each grade level. The assessments were scored using a three-parameter Item Response Theory (IRT) model. Reardon and Galindo (2009) found that average Hispanic and black students begin kindergarten with math scores three quarters of a standard deviation lower than those of white students and with reading scores a half standard deviation lower than those of white students. Six years later, Hispanic-white gaps narrow by roughly a third, whereas black-white gaps widen by about a third. More specifically, the Hispanic-white gap is a half standard deviation in math, and three-eighths in reading at the end of fifth grade. The trends in the Hispanic-white gaps are especially interesting because of the rapid narrowing that occurs between kindergarten and first grade. Specifically, the estimated math gap declines from 0.77 to 0.56 standard deviations, and the estimated reading gap from 0.52 to 0.29 in the roughly 18 months between the fall of kindergarten and the spring of first grade. In the four years from the spring of first grade through the spring of fifth grade, the Hispanic-white gaps narrow slightly to 0.50 standard deviations in math and widening slightly to 0.38 deviations in reading.\n\nIn a 2009 study Clotfelter et al. examine test scores of elementary and middle school students by race. The data used in the study comes from administrative records created by North Carolina's Department of Public Instruction and maintained by the North Carolina Education Research Data Center and are not nationally representative. North Carolina requires all students to take standardized achievement tests in both math and reading at the end of every grade between grades 3 and 8. In order to make comparisons across years, Clotfelter et al. (2009) normalized the scaled scores for each test in every year over all students in the state who took the test so that each test would have a mean score of 0 and a standard deviation of 1. On this normalized scale, positive scores denote above-average performances relative to the statewide average, and negative scores denote below-average performance. Analysis by Clotfelter et al. (2009) found gaps between four different racial groups: whites, Asians, Hispanics, and blacks. Essentially, while the black-white gaps are substantial, both Hispanic and Asian students tend to gain on whites as they progress in school. The white-black achievement gap in math scores is about half a standard deviation, and the white-black achievement gap in reading is a little less than half a standard deviation. By fifth grade, Hispanic and white students have roughly the same math and reading scores. By eighth grade, scores for Hispanic students in North Carolina surpassed those of observationally equivalent whites by roughly a tenth of a standard deviation. Asian students surpass whites on math and reading tests in all years except third and fourth grade reading.\n\nIn a 2006 study, LoGerfo, Nichols, and Reardon (2006) found that, starting in the eighth grade, white students have an initial advantage in reading achievement over black and Hispanic students but not Asian students. Using nationally representative data from by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES)—the Early Childhood Longitudinal Study (ECLS-K) and the National Education Longitudinal Study (NELS:88), LoGerfo, Nichols, and Reardon (2006) claim that black students score 5.49 points lower than white students and Hispanic students score 4.83 points lower than white students on reading tests. These differences in initial status are compounded by differences in reading gains made during high school. Specifically, between ninth and tenth grades, white students gain slightly more than black students and Hispanic students, but white students gain less than Asian students. Between tenth and twelfth grades, white students gain at a slightly faster rate than black students, but white students gain at a slower rate than Hispanic students and Asian students.\n\nIn eighth grade, white students also have an initial advantage over black and Hispanic students in math tests. However, Asian students have an initial 2.71 point advantage over white students and keep pace with white students throughout high school. Between eighth and tenth grade, black students and Hispanic students make slower gains in math than white students, and black students fall farthest behind. Asian students gain 2.71 points more than white students between eight and tenth grade. Some of these differences in gains persist later in high school. For example, between tenth and twelfth grades, white students gain more than black students, and Asian students gain more than white students. There are no significant differences in math gains between white students and Hispanic students. By the end of high school, gaps between groups increase slightly. Specifically, the initial 9-point advantage of white students over black students increases by about a point, and the initial advantage of Asian students over white students also increases by about a point. Essentially, by the end of high school, Asian students are beginning to learn intermediate-level math concepts, whereas black and Hispanic students are far behind, learning fractions and decimals, which are math concepts that the white and Asian students learned in the eighth grade. Black and Hispanic students end twelfth grade with scores 11 and 7 points behind those of white students, while the male-female difference in math scores is only around 2 points.\n\nThe racial group differences across admissions tests, such as the SAT, ACT, GRE, GMAT, MCAT, LSAT, Advanced Placement Program examinations and other measures of educational achievement, have been fairly consistent. Since the 1960s, the population of students taking these assessments has become increasingly diverse. Consequently, the examination of ethnic score differences have been more rigorous. Specifically, the largest gaps exist between white and African American students. On average, they score about .82 to 1.18 standard deviations lower than white students in composite test scores. Following closely behind is the gap between white and Hispanic students. Asian American students overall performance were higher than those of White students except Asian American students performed one quarter standard deviation unit lower on the SAT verbal section, and about one half a standard deviation unit higher in the GRE Quantitative test.\nHowever, in the new current version of the SAT, Asian-American students of Taiwanese, Korean, Japanese, Indian and Han Chinese descent have scored higher on both the verbal and math sections of the new SAT test than whites and all other student racial groups.\n\nThe National Assessment of Educational Progress reports the national Black-White gap and the Hispanic-White Gap in math and reading assessments, measured at the 4th and 8th grade level. The trends show both gaps widen in mathematics as students grow older, but tend to stay the same in reading. Furthermore, the NAEP measures the widening and narrowing of achievement gaps on a state level. From 2007 to 2009, the achievement gaps for the majority of states stayed the same, although more fluctuations were seen at the 8th grade level than the 4th grade level.\n\nThe Black-White Gap demonstrates:\n\nThe Hispanic White Gap demonstrates:\n\nThe National Educational Longitudinal Survey (NELS, 1988) demonstrates similar findings in their evaluation of assessments administered to 12th graders in reading and math.\n\nResults of the mathematics achievement test:\n\nResults of the reading achievement test:\n\nAccording to the US Department of Education, event dropout rate is the percentage of high school students who dropped out of high school between the beginning of one school year and the beginning of the next school year. Five out of every 100 students enrolled in high school in October 2000 left school before October 2001 without successfully completing a high school program. The percentage of students who were event dropouts decreased from 1972 through 1987. However, despite some year-to-year fluctuations, the percentage of students dropping out of school each year has stayed relatively the same since 1987. Data from the October 2001 Current Population Survey (CPS) show that black and Hispanic students were more likely to have dropped out of high school between October 2000 and October 2001 than were white or Asians/Pacific Islander students. During this period, 6.3% of black and 8.8% of Hispanic high school students dropped out compared to 4.1% of white and 2.3% of Asian/Pacific Islander high school students.\n\nAccording to the US Department of Education, status dropout rates measure the percentage of individuals who are not enrolled in high school and who lack a high school credential, independent of when they dropped out. Status rates are higher than event rates because they include all dropouts in this age range, regardless of when they last attended school or whether or not they ever entered the US education system. In October 2001, about 3.8 million 16- through 24-year-olds were not enrolled in a high school program and had not completed high school. These individuals accounted for 10.7% of the 35.2 million 16- through 24-year-olds in the United States in 2001. In 1972, the white status dropout rate was 40% and the black status dropout rate was 49%. Because the black rate declined more steeply than the white rate, there has been a narrowing of the gap between the dropout rates for blacks and whites. However, this narrowing occurred in the 1980s, and the gap between whites and blacks has remained fairly constant since 1990. The percentage of Hispanics who were status dropouts has remained higher than that of blacks and whites in every year since 1970. Even though Hispanics represented approximately the same percentage of the young adult population as did blacks, Hispanics were disproportionately represented among status dropouts in 2001. Also in 2001, the status dropout rate for Asians/Pacific Islanders ages 16–24 was lower than for any other 16- through 24-year-olds. Specifically, the status rate for Asians/Pacific Islanders was 3.6%, compared with 27.0% for Hispanics, 20.9% for blacks, and 7.3% for whites.\n\nStatus completion rates measure the percentage of a given population that has a high school credential, regardless of when the credential was earned. In 2001, 86.5% of 18- through 24-year-olds not enrolled in elementary or secondary school had completed high school. Status completion rates increased from 82.8% in 1972 to 85.6% in 1990. Since 1991, the rate has shown no consistent trend and has fluctuated between 84.8% and 86.5%. High school status completion rates for white and black young adults increased between the early 1970s and 1990 but has remained relatively the same since 1990. Specifically, status completion rates for white students increased from 86.0% in 1972 to 89.6% in 1990. Since 1990, white completion rates have remained in the range of 89.4–91.8%. In 2001, 91.0% of white and 85.6% of black 18- through 24-year-olds had completed high school. The percentage of black students completing high school rose from 72.1% in 1972 to 85.6% in 2001. The gap between black and white completion rates narrowed between 1972 and 2001. In 2001, 65.7% of all Hispanic 18- through 24-year- olds completed high school. This percentage compares to 91.0% of whites, 85.6% of blacks, and 96.1% of Asians/Pacific Islanders. Essentially, in 2001, whites and Asians/Pacific Islanders were more likely than their black and Hispanic peers to have completed high school. Also, whites completed high school at a higher rate than both blacks and Hispanic students. Black students completed high school at a higher rate than Hispanics.\n\nThe four-year completion rate is the percentage of 9th-grade students who left school over a subsequent 4-year period while also completing a high school credential. Data for the 4-year completion rate calculations are taken from the Common Core of Data (CCD). The 4-year completion rate calculation is dependent on the availability of dropout estimates over a 4-year span, and current counts of completers. Because dropout rate information was missing for many states during the 4-year period considered by the US Department of Education, 4- year completion rate estimates for the 2000-01 school year are only available for 39 states. Since data were not available from all states, an overall national rate could not be calculated. However, among reporting states, the high school 4-year completion rates for public school students ranged from a high of 90.1% in North Dakota to a low of 65.0% in Louisiana.\n\nRacial and ethnic variations in SAT scores follow a similar pattern to other racial achievement gaps. In 1990, the average SAT was 528 for Asian-Americans, 491 for whites, , 429 for Mexican Americans and 385 for blacks. 34% of Asians compared with 20% of whites, 3% of blacks, 7% of Mexican Americans, and 9% of Native Americans scored above a 600 on the SAT math section. On the SAT verbal section in 1990, whites scored an average of 442, compared with 410 for Asians, 352 for blacks, 380 for Mexican Americans, and 388 for Native Americans. \nIn 2015, the average SAT scores on the math section were 598 for Asian-Americans, 534 for whites, 457 for Hispanic Latinos and 428 for blacks. \nAdditionally, 10% of Asian-Americans, 8% of whites, 3% of Mexican Americans, 3% of Native Americans and 2% of blacks scored above 600 on the SAT verbal section in 1990.\nRace gaps on the SATs are especially pronounced at the tails of the distribution. In a perfectly equal distribution, the racial breakdown of scores at every point in the distribution should ideally mirror the demographic composition of test-takers as whole i.e. 51% whites, 21% Hispanic Latinos, 14% blacks, and 14% Asian-Americans. But ironically, among the highest top scorers, those scoring between a 750 and 800 (perfect scores) over 60% are East Asians of Taiwanese, Japanese, Korean and Han Chinese descent, while only 33% are white, compared to 5% Hispanic Latinos and 2% blacks.\n\nThere are some limitations to the data which may mean that, if anything, the race gap is being understated. The ceiling on the SAT score may, for example, understate the achievement and full potential of East Asians of Taiwanese, Japanese, Korean and Han Chinese descent. If the exam was redesigned to increase score variance (add harder and easier questions than it currently has), the achievement gap across racial groups could be even more wider and pronounced. In other words, if the math section was scored between 0 and 1000, we might see more complete tails on both the right and the left. More East Asians score between 750 and 800 than score between 700 and 750, suggesting that many East Asians of Taiwanese, Japanese, Korean and Han Chinese descent could be scoring high above 800 if the test allowed them to.\n\nThe US Department in Education demonstrates performance of different ethnic groups in colleges and universities. Specifically, they found that about 72% of White students who have completed high school enrolled in college the same year, compared to 44% for Black students, and 50% for Hispanic students. Furthermore, trends in undergraduate and graduate enrollment have shown increases in all ethnicity groups, but the largest gap still exists for Black student enrollment. Hispanic and Asian/Pacific Islanders student enrollment have experienced the most growth since 1976. The 6-year national college graduation rate is 59% for White students, 51% for Hispanic students, 46% for Black females, and 35% for Black males. Furthermore, even at prestigious institutions, the graduation rate of white students is higher than that of black student.\n\nThe National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) has been testing seventeen-year-olds since 1971. From 1971 to 1996, the black-white reading gap shrank by almost one half and the math gap by almost one third. Specifically, blacks scored an average of 239 points, and whites scored an average of 291 points on the NAEP reading tests in 1971. In 1990, blacks scored an average of 267, and whites scored an average of 297 points. On NAEP math tests in 1973, blacks scored an average of 270, and whites scored 310. In 1990, black average score was 289 and whites scored an average of 310 points. For Hispanics, the average NAEP math score for seventeen-year-olds in 1973 was 277 and 310 for whites. In 1990, the average score among Hispanics was 284 compared with 310 for whites.\n\nBecause of small population size in the 1970s, similar trend data are not available for Asian Americans. Data from the 1990 NAEP Mathematics Assessment Tests show that among twelfth graders, Asians scored an average of 315 points compared with 301 points for whites, 270 for blacks, 278 for Hispanics, and 290 for Native Americans. Racial and ethnic differentiation is most apparent at the highest achievement levels. Specifically, 13% of Asians performed at level of 350 points or higher, 6% of whites, less than 1% of blacks, and 1% of Hispanics did so.\n\nThe NAEP has since collected and analyzed data through 2008. Overall, the White-Hispanic and the White-Black gap for NAEP scores have significantly decreased since the 1970s.\nThe Black-White Gap demonstrates:\nThe Hispanic-White Gap demonstrates:\n\nFurthermore, subgroups showed predominant gains in 4th grade at all achievement levels. In terms of achieving proficiency, gaps between subgroups in most states have narrowed across grade levels, yet had widened in 23% of instances. The progress made in elementary and middle schools was greater than that in high schools, which demonstrates the importance of early childhood education. Greater gains were seen in lower-performing subgroups rather than in higher-performing subgroups. Similarly, greater gains were seen in Latino and African American subgroups than for low-income and Native American subgroups.\n\nResearch that was conducted shows that income is a factor that affects the racial achievement gap. Black and Hispanic students tend to come from low-income communities and they also tend to be behind white students in terms of math and reading scores. Another piece of evidence is that when you compare the gap between white and minority students with similar family economic backgrounds, the achievement gap results are different.Katherine Paschall is a researcher who believes that family income plays more of a factor in the academic achievement gap than race/ethnicity. This is due to the fact that even within racial groups, there are differences in economic statuses. Family income was able to explain most of the evidence that was shown. Katherine Paschall conducted research to see if the achievement gap is due to a combination of race/ethnicity and income rather than just race/ethnicity by itself. Paschall discuses how important it is to look at both race/ethnicity and poverty status together. Since there is already research on both factors separately, it is important to look at the intersection between them in order to further understand the achievement gap. Paschall believes that these findings are important in the development of educational policies that try to reduce the achievement gaps.\n\nThe achievement gap between low-income minority students and middle-income White students has been a popular research topic among sociologists since the publication of the report, \"Equality of Educational Opportunity\" (more widely known as the Coleman Report). This report was commissioned by the U.S. Department of Education in 1966 to investigate whether the performance of African-American students was caused by their attending schools of a lesser quality than white students. The report suggested that both in-school factors and home/community factors affect the academic achievement of students and contribute to the achievement gap that exists between races.\n\nThe study of the achievement gap can be addressed from two standpoints—from a supply-side and a demand-side viewpoint of education. In Poor Economics, Banerjee and Duflo explain the two families of arguments surrounding education of underserved populations. Demand-side arguments focus on aspects of minority populations that influence education achievement. These include family background and culture, which shape perceptions and expectations surrounding education. A large body of research has been dedicated to studying these factors contributing to the achievement gap. Supply-side arguments focus on the provision of education and resources and the systemic structures in place that perpetuate the achievement gap. These include neighborhoods, funding, and policy. In 2006, Ladson-Billings called on education researchers to move the spotlight of education research from family background to take into account the rest of the factors that affect educational achievement, as explained by the Coleman Report. The concept of opportunity gaps—rather than achievement gaps—has changed the paradigm of education research to assess education from a top-down approach.\n\nA person’s sense of social belonging is one non-cognitive factor that plays a part in the racial achievement gap. Some of the processes that threaten a person’s sense of belonging in schools include social stigma, negative intellectual stereotypes, and numeric under-representation.\n\nWalton and Cohen describe three ways in which a sense of social belonging boosts motivation, the first being positive self-image. By adopting similar interests as those who a person considers to be socially significant, it may help to increase or affirm a person’s sense of his or her personal worth. People have a basic need to belong, which is why people may feel a sense of distress when social rejection occurs. Students in minority groups have to battle other factors as well, such as peer and friend groups being separated by race. Homogeneous friend groups can segregate people out of important networking connections, thus limiting important future opportunities that non-minority groups have because they have access to these networking connections.\n\nStudents who do not fall into the majority or dominant group in their schools often worry about whether or not they will belong and find a valued place in their school. Their thoughts are often centered around whether they will be accepted and valued for who they are around their peers. Social rejection can cause reductions in IQ test performance, self-regulation, and also can prompt aggression. People can do more together than they can alone. Social life is a form of collaborative activity, and an important feature of human life. When goals and objectives become shared, they offer a person and the social units he or she is a part of major advantages over if he or she was working alone.\n\nUnder performing groups in schools often report that they feel like they do not belong and that they are unhappy a majority of the time. Steele offers an example, explaining an observation done by his colleague, Treisman. It was observed that African American students at Berkeley did their work independently in their rooms with nobody to converse with. They spent most of their time checking answers to their arithmetic in the back of their textbook, weakening their grasp of the concepts themselves. This ultimately caused these students to do worse on tests and assessments than their white peers, creating a frustrating experience and also contributing to the racial achievement gap.\n\nWhen students feel that what they are doing has purpose, they are more likely to succeed academically. Students who identify and actively work towards their individual, purposeful, life goals have a better chance at eliminating disengagement that commonly occurs in middle school and continues into later adolescence. These life goals give students a chance to believe that their school work is done in hopes of achieving larger, more long-term goals that matter to the world. This also gives students the opportunity to feel that their lives have meaning by working towards these goals.\n\nPurposeful life goals, such as work goals, may also increase students motivation to learn. Adolescents may make connections between what they are learning in school and how they will use those skills and knowledge will help them make an impact in the future. This idea ultimately will lead students to create their own goals related to mastering the material they are learning in school.\n\nAdolescents who have goals, and believe that their opinions and voices can impact the world positively, they may become more motivated. They become more committed to mastering concepts and being accountable for their own learning, rather than focusing on getting the highest grade in the class. Students will study more intently and deeply, as well as persist longer, seeking out more challenges. They will like learning more because the tasks they are doing have purpose, creating a personal meaning to them and in turn leading to satisfaction.\n\nStudents’ mindsets (how they perceive their abilities) play a large role in their achievement and also their motivation. An adolescent's level of self-efficacy is a great predictor of their level of academic performance, going above and beyond a student's measured level of ability and also their prior performance in school. Students having a growth mindset believe that their intelligence can be developed over time. Those with a fixed mindset believe that their intelligence is fixed and cannot grow and develop. Students with growth mindsets tend to outperform their peers who have fixed mindsets.\n\nStudents are highly influenced by their teachers in which kind of mindset they develop in school. When people are taught with a growth mindset, the ideas of challenging themselves and putting in more effort follow. People believe that each mindset is better than the other, which causes students to feel that they are not as good as other students in school. A big question that is asked in schooling is when does someone feel smart: when they are flawless or when they are learning? With a fixed mindset, you must be flawless, and not just smart in the classroom. With this mindset, there is even more pressure on students to not only succeed, but to be flawless in front of their peers.\n\nStudents who have a fixed mindset, have come to change the idea of failure as an action to an identity. They come to think of the idea of failing something as being that they are a failure and that they cannot achieve something. This links back into how they think of themselves as a person and decreases their motivation in school. This sense of \"failure\" is especially prominent during adolescence. If one thing goes wrong, one with a fixed mindset will feel that they cannot overcome this small failure, and thus their mindset motivation will decrease.\n\nEducation debt is a theory developed by Gloria Ladson-Billings, a pedagogical theorist.  In her theory of education debt, she likens the focus of the achievement gap to the United States current focus on the national deficit. She argues that instead the true issue is debt rather than deficit: an education debt to African Americans, Native Americans, and Latino/as.  As defined by a colleague of Ladson-Billings, Professor Emeritus Robert Haveman, education debt is the “foregone schooling resources that we could have (should have) been investing in (primarily) low income kids, which deficit leads to a variety of social problems (e.g. crime, low productivity, low wages, low labor force participation) that require on-going public investment”. The education debt has historical, economic, sociopolitical and moral components; the structure of the education debt theory makes is a logical cause of the racial achievement gap.    \n\nHistorical debt is the concept of inequality throughout history that has prevented equal education of minorities.  Inequities surrounding education throughout history have been designed to prevent people based on their race, class, and gender from receiving quality education.  Disparity in achievement is a result of legislation that has prevented education of minorities, specifically African Americans.  After the abolishment of slavery, African Americans were subject to follow the laws of their bitter oppressors.  This left African Americans with little to no representation.  It was prohibited by law in many places across the United States, specifically the south, for African Americans to attend school. This is an early example in history of education being denied to African Americans.  Similarly, the Native American population was prevented from obtaining a quality education.  After forced labor and genocides, the remaining population was funneled into boarding schools focused on religious teachings and assimilation into European culture. Native Americans had little to no representation. Latino/as were also denied equal education.  In the case Mendez vs. West Minister, Latino fathers challenged the courts as their children, and thousands of others, were victims of racial segregation. Historically, much of the inequalities embedded within legislation was perpetuated by leaders of the country.  The falsity that African Americans were unable to be educated was endorsed by Thomas Jefferson, even though he supported the idea of education for all American people.  Historic events and legislation are both related to economic debt, in the fact that they both affected the education opportunities of minorities. \n\nEconomic debt has greatly accumulated from the disparities in school funding.  Even after it was deemed unconstitutional for education to be withheld on the basis of race, legislation regarding the allocation of money for public schools was passed regardless of the fact that it left minority school districts with significantly less money than districts of White counterparts.  The concept of separate but equal, made constitutional by Plessy vs. Ferguson, allowed a significant of amount of funding disparity to be perpetuated.  Although, Plessy vs. Ferguson was overturned, the segregation it caused can still be observed today.  Statistics show that Chicago public school spend spend roughly $8,000 a year per child; the population of Chicago public school students is 87% African American and Latino/a. Highland Park school district spends more than double the amount of the Chicago public school district; Highland Park (a neighboring town) public schools has a population of 91% White students.  It is important to consider an affect of economic debt; earning ratios. Gloria Ladson-Billings points to the relation of level of schoolings and earning ratios. Higher level of income is related to a higher level of education data suggests.    \n\nSociopolitical debt “is the degree to which communities of color are excluded from the civic process” (Landson-Billings 2006). The civic process includes refers to the engagement of conversation or activity that addresses issues or concerns within society. Disenfranchisement of voting rights contributed to and continues to contribute to sociopolitical debt.  With little to no access to franchise, African American, Latino/a, and Native American communities received no representation or legislation that reflected their issues and concerns.  These groups were often excluded from legislation and conversation concerning education which did not allow them to advocate for the equal education. An example of the mitigation of sociopolitical debt is the Voting Rights Act of 1965.  This piece of legislation ensured a voice to minorities within the political sphere.  No such legislation has been passed that focuses on diminishing education inequalities. Affirmative action is the closest legislation that has had a strong impact.  Although affirmative action benefited White women the most, observations show that the emergence of the Black middle class was aided by the policy (Bowen and Bok 1999). Members of the Black middle class  and other minority groups continue to fight for change in education despite being silenced.  The sociopolitical debt has limited access to resources such as policy makers and law experts; disadvantages as these do not allow for the gain of political capital needed to enact change. \n\nMoral debt is the final component of the education debt and “reflects disparity between what we know is right and what we actually do” (Ladson-Billings). Moral debt is expressed as the lack of honor given when honor is due.  There is no hesitation in giving honor to Martin Luther King Jr. or Rosa Parks. Another example of repaying moral debt are the reparations placed on Germany after WWII. Debate is happening on the basis of moral debt, reparations and success but much of the debate focuses on the individual and the responsibility of the individual to ensure success.  “No nation can enslave a race of people for hundreds of years, set them free bedraggled and penniless, pit them, without assistance in a hostile environment, against privileged victimizers, and then reasonably expect the gap between the heirs of the two groups to narrow. Lines, begun parallel and left alone, can never touch.” Randall Robinson states.  Individual responsibility becomes an unrealistic expectation when a group has been exploited, disenfranchised and oppressed for centuries.  \n\nChildren can differ in their readiness to learn before they enter school. Research has shown that parental involvement in a child's development has a significant effect on the educational achievement of minority children. According to sociologist Annette Lareau, differences in parenting styles can affect a child's future achievement. In her book \"Unequal Childhoods\", she argues that there are two main types of parenting: concerted cultivation and the achievement of natural growth.\n\n\nThe parenting practices that a child is raised with influences their future educational achievement. However, parenting styles are heavily influenced by the parents' and family's social, economic, and physical circumstances. In particular, immigration status (if applicable), education level, incomes, and occupations influence the degree of parental involvement their children's academic achievement. These factors directly determine the access of the parents to time and resources to dedicate to their children's development. These factors also indirectly determine the home environment and parents' educational expectations of their children. For example, children from poor families have lower academic performance in kindergarten than children from middle to upper-class backgrounds, but children from poor families who had cognitively stimulating materials in the home demonstrated higher rates of academic achievement in kindergarten. Additionally, parents of children living in poverty are less likely to have cognitively stimulating materials in the home for their children and are less likely to be involved in their child's school. The quality of language that the student uses is affected by family’s socioeconomic backgrounds, which is another factor in the academic achievement gap. \n\nIn the United States, most minority groups are more likely to live in poverty than White Americans. Unemployment rate and mortgages for African and Latin Americans are usually higher than White Americans'. And although Asian American families earn, on average, more income than White American families do, there are usually more family members working in the Asian American family than the White American family. These disparities in socioeconomic status between minority groups and White Americans help explain differences in parenting styles, family structure, and the resultant educational achievement of minority children. However, the racial gaps persists when comparing families with similar income. Whites from families with incomes below $10,000 had a mean SAT test score that was 61 points higher than blacks whose families had incomes of between $80,000 and $100,000.\n\nIn 2010, 72% of Black babies were born to unwed mothers.\n\nThere is consensus in the literature about the negative consequences of growing up in single-parent homes on educational attainment and success. Children growing up in single-parent homes are more likely to not finish school and generally obtain less years of schooling than those in two-parent homes. Specifically, boys growing in homes with only their mothers are more likely to receive poorer grades and display behavioral problems.\n\nFor black high school students, the African American family structure does affect their educational goals and expectations also. Studies on the topic have indicated that children growing up in single-parent homes faces disturbances in young childhood, adolescence and young adulthood as well. Although these effects are sometimes minimal and contradictory, it is generally agreed that the family structure a child grows up in is important for their success in the educational sphere.\n\nThe black family structure is seen as a source of low student achievement because it is seen as a family structure that creates a “culture of poverty”.Research has found that student’s that come from “culture of poverty” tend to be low achievers due to them already being at a disadvantage, making it hard for them to be high achievers. \n\nSome experts believe that cultural factors contribute to the racial achievement gap. Students from minority cultures face language barriers, differences in cultural norms in interactions, learning styles, varying levels of receptiveness of their culture to White American culture, and varying levels of acceptance of the White American culture by the students. In particular, it has been found that minority students from cultures with views that generally do not align with the mainstream cultural views have a harder time in school. Furthermore, views of the value of education differ by minority groups as well as members within each group. Both Hispanic and African-American youths often receive mixed messages about the importance of education, and often end up performing below their academic potential.\n\nMany Hispanic parents who immigrate to The United States see a high school diploma as being a sufficient amount of schooling and may not stress the importance of continuing on to college. Parental discouragement from pursuing higher education tends to be based on the notion of \"we made it without formal schooling, so you can too\". Additionally, depending on the immigration generation and economic status of the student, some students prioritize their obligations to assisting their family over their educational aspirations. Poor economic circumstances place greater pressure on the students to sacrifice time spent working towards educational attainment in order to dedicate more time to help support the family. Surveys have shown that while Latino American families would like their children to have a formal education, they also place high value on getting jobs, marrying, and having children as early as possible, all of which conflict with the goal of educational achievement. However, counselors and teachers usually promote continuing on to college. This message conflicts with the one being sent to Hispanic students by their families and can negatively affect the motivation of Hispanic students, as evidenced by the fact that Latinos have the lowest college attendance rates of any racial/ethnic group. Overall, Latino American students face barriers such as financial stability and insufficient support for higher education within their families. Reading to children when they are younger increases literacy comprehension, which is a fundamental concept in the education system; however, it is less likely to occur within Latino American families because many parents do not have any formal education. Currently, Latino Americans over the age of 25 have the lowest percentage in obtaining a bachelor's degree or higher amongst all other racial groups; while only having 11 percent.\n\nAfrican American students are also likely to receive different messages about the importance of education from their peer group and from their parents. Many young African-Americans are told by their parents to concentrate on school and do well academically, which is similar to the message that many middle-class white students receive. However, the peers of African-American students are more likely to place less emphasis on education, sometimes accusing studious African-American students of \"acting white.\" This causes problems for black students who want to pursue higher levels of education, forcing some to hide their study or homework habits from their peers and perform below their academic potential.\n\nAsian American students are more likely to view education as a means to social mobility, as they believe it provides a means to overcome language barriers as well as discrimination. This notion comes from parental expectations of their children, which are rooted in the cultural belief that hard work is the key to educational and eventually occupational attainment. Many Asian Americans immigrated to the United States voluntarily, in search for better opportunities. This immigration status comes into play when assessing the cultural views of Asian Americans since attitudes of more recent immigration are associated with optimistic views about the correlation between hard work and success. Obstacles such as language barriers and acceptance of White American culture are more easily overcome by voluntary immigrants since their expectations of attaining better opportunities in the United States influence their interactions and experiences.\n\nThe quality of school that a student attends and the socioeconomic status of the student's residential neighborhood are two factors that can affect a student's academic performance.\n\nIn the United States, the financing of most public schools is based on local property taxes This system means that schools located in areas with lower real estate values have proportionately less money to spend per pupil than schools located in areas with higher real estate values. This system has also maintained a \"funding segregation:\" because minority students are much more likely to live in a neighborhood with lower property values, they are much more likely to attend a school that receives significantly lower funding. \n\nData from research shows that when the quality of the school is better and students are given more resources, it affects the racial achievement gap by reducing it. When white and black schools were given the equal amount of resources, it shows that black students started improving while white students stayed the same because they didn’t need the resources. This showed that lack of resources is a factor in the racial achievement gap. The research that was conducted shows that predominantly white schools have more resources than black schools. However, lack of resources is only a small effect on academic achievement in comparison to students’ family backgrounds. \n\nUsing property taxes to fund public schools contributes to school inequality. Lower-funded schools are more likely to have (1) lower-paid teachers; (2) higher student-teacher ratios, meaning less individual attention for each student; (3) older books; (4) fewer extracurricular activities, which have been shown to increase academic achievement; (5) poorly maintained school buildings and grounds; and (6) less access to services like school nursing and social workers. All of these factors can affect student performance and perpetuate inequalities between students of different races.\n\nLiving in a high-poverty or disadvantaged neighborhood have been shown to negatively influence educational aspirations and consequently attainment. The Moving to Opportunity experiment showed that moving to a low-poverty neighborhood had a positive effect on the educational attainment of minority adolescents. The school characteristics associated with the low-poverty neighborhoods proved to be effective mediators, since low-poverty neighborhoods tended to have more favorable school composition, safety, and quality. Additionally, living in a neighborhood with economic and social inequalities leads to negative attitudes and more problematic behavior due to and social tensions. Greater college aspirations have been correlated with more social cohesiveness among neighborhood youth, since community support from both youth and adults in the neighborhood tends to have a positive influence on educational aspirations. Some researchers believe that vouchers should be given to low income students so they can go to school in other places. However, other researchers believe that the idea of vouchers promotes equality and doesn’t eliminate it. \n\nRacial and ethnic residential segregation in the United States still persists, with African Americans experiencing the highest degree of residential segregation, followed by Latino Americans and Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. This isolation from White American communities is highly correlated with low property values and high-poverty neighborhoods. This issue is propagated by issues of home ownership facing minorities, especially African Americans and Latino Americans, since residential areas predominantly populated by these minority groups are perceived as less attractive in the housing market. Home ownership by minority groups is further undermined by institutionalized discriminatory practices, such as differential treatment of African Americans and Latino Americans in the housing market compared with White Americans. Higher mortgages charged to African American or Latino American buyers make it more difficult for members of these minority groups to attain full home ownership and accumulate wealth. As a result, African American and Latino American groups continue to live in racially segregated neighborhoods and face the socioeconomic consequences of residential segregation.\n\nDifferences in the academic performance of African-American and White students exist even in schools that are desegregated and diverse, and studies have shown that a school's racial mix does not seem to have much effect on changes in reading scores after sixth grade, or on math scores at any age. In fact, minority students in segregated-minority schools have more optimism and greater educational aspirations as well as achievements than minority students in segregated-white schools. This can be attributed to various factors, including the attitudes of faculty and staff at segregated-white schools and the effect of stereotype threat.\n\nThe minority status of a student plays a major role in the minority experience of schooling. Non-White minority groups are classified into voluntary and involuntary minority groups, which are differentiated by the reasons that brought the groups to the United States. Voluntary minorities are immigrants who came to the United States for better social, economic, and political opportunities, such as the Chinese and Punjabi Indians. Optimism regarding educational and occupational prospects are reflected in parents' expectations of their children. It should be noted, however, that earlier generations of students from voluntary minority groups tend to perform better and place a higher value on education than native-born and later-generation students of the same group. Involuntary minorities are those from groups who came to the United States or integrated into the United States against their will, such as Native Americans or African Americans. Involuntary minority groups face both external and internal tensions; institutionalized socioeconomic factors prevent social mobility for these groups, in addition to the identity-related conflicts within a minority culture. These ethnic histories thus define the social status of minority groups and thereby influence the schooling experience of minority students.\n\nAn argument has been put that the disparity in income that exists between African Americans and Whites directly contributes to the racial achievement gap. This school of thought argues that the origin of this \"wealth gap\" is the slavery and racism that made it extremely difficult for African-Americans to accumulate wealth for almost 100 years. A comparable history of discrimination created a similar gap between Hispanics and whites. This results in many minority children being born into low socioeconomic backgrounds, which in turn affects educational opportunities.\n\nResearch has shown time and again that the wealth and income of parents is a primary factor influencing student achievement . A low socioeconomic background can have negative effects on a child's educational achievement before even starting school; indeed, research has shown that the achievement gap is present between races before starting formal education. On average, when entering kindergarten, African-American students are one year behind White students in terms of vocabulary and basic math skills, and this gap continues to grow as a child's education continues.\n\nPart of the racial achievement gap can be attributed to the experience of the refugee population in the United States. Refugee groups in particular face obstacles such as cultural and language barriers and discrimination, in addition to premigration stresses. These factors affect how successfully refugee children can assimilate to and succeed in the United States. Furthermore, it has been shown that immigrant children from politically unstable countries do not perform as well as immigrant children from politically stable countries.\n\nJ. Philippe Rushton and Arthur Jensen suggested that the results of intelligence testing demonstrate that genetic differences can explain some or all of the racial achievement gap in American education.\n\nRobert Sternberg later published a reply to Rushton and Jensen in which he wrote critically of their approach to the subject and of some of their specific claims and rhetoric. Sternberg states his belief that science should be conducted with values in mind. He then argues that Rushton and Jensen were wrong to suggest any policy implications of their research because international variation in social norms and definitions of success may affect the influence IQ has on the attainment of success. While Sternberg acknowledges that there is a genetic factor affecting individual intelligence, he asserts that intelligence is changeable, and at the group level, subjective.\n\nThe racial achievement gap has consequences on the life outcomes of minority students. However, this gap also has the potential for negative implications for American society as a whole, especially in terms of workforce quality and the competitiveness of the American economy. As the economy has become more globalized and the United States' economy has shifted away from manufacturing and towards a knowledge-based economy; education has become an increasingly important determinate of economic success and prosperity. A strong education is now essential for preparing and training the future workforce that is able to compete in the global economy. Education is also important for attaining jobs and a stable career, which is critical for breaking the cycle of poverty and securing a sound economic future, both individually and as a nation. Students with lower achievement are more likely to drop out of high school, entering the workforce with minimal training and skills, and subsequently earning substantially less than those with more education. Therefore, eliminating the racial achievement gap and improving the achievement of minority students will help eliminate economic disparities and ensure that America's future workforce is well prepared to be productive and competitive citizens.\n\nReducing the racial achievement gap is especially important because the United States is becoming an increasingly diverse country. The percentage of African-American and Hispanic students in school is increasing: in 1970, African-Americans and Hispanics made up 15% of the school-age population, and that number had increased to 30% by 2000. It is expected that minority students will represent the majority of school enrollments by 2015. Minorities make up a growing share of America's future workforce; therefore, the United States' economic competitiveness depends heavily on closing the racial achievement gap.\n\nThe racial achievement gap affects the volume and quality of human capital, which is also reflected through calculations of GDP. The cost of racial achievement gap accounts for 2–4 percent of the 2008 GDP. This percentage is likely to increase as blacks and Hispanics continue to account for a higher proportion of the population and workforce. Furthermore, it was estimated that $310 billion would be added to the US economy by 2020 if minority students graduated at the same rate as white students. Even more substantial is the narrowing of educational achievement levels in the US compared to those of higher-achieving nations, such as Finland and Korea. McKinsey & Company estimate a $1.3 trillion to $2.3 trillion, or a 9 to 16 percent difference in GDP. \nFurthermore, if high school dropouts were to cut in half, over $45 billion would be added in savings and additional revenue. In a single high school class, halving the dropout rate would be able to support over 54,000 new jobs, and increase GDP by as much as $9.6 billion. Overall, the cost of high school drop outs on the US economy is roughly $355 billion.\n\n$3.7 billion would be saved on community college remediation costs and lost earnings if all high school students were ready for college. Furthermore, if high school graduation rates for males raised by 5 percent, cutting back on crime spending and increasing earnings each year would lead to an $8 billion increase the US economy.\n\nAs the United States' economy has moved towards a globalized knowledge-based economy, education has become even more important for attaining jobs and a stable career, which is critical for breaking the cycle of poverty and securing a sound economic future. The racial achievement gap can hinder job attainment and social mobility for minority students. The United States Census Bureau reported $62,545 as the median income of White families, $38,409 of Black families, and $39,730 for Hispanic families. And while the median income of Asian families is $75,027, the number of people working in these households is usually greater than that in White American families. The difference in income levels relate highly to educational opportunities between various groups. Students who drop out of high school as a result of the racial achievement gap demonstrate difficulty in the job market. The median income of young adults who do not finish high school is about $21,000, compared to the $30,000 of those who have at least earned a high school credential. This translates into a difference of $630,000 in the course of a lifetime. Students who are not accepted or decide not to attend college as a result of the racial achievement gap may forgo over $450,000 in lifetime earnings had they earned a Bachelor of Arts degree. In 2009, $36,000 was the median income for those with an associate degree was, $45,000 for those with a bachelor's degree, $60,000 for those with a master's degree or higher.\n\nBeyond differences in earnings, minority students also experience stereotype threat that negatively affects performance through activation of salient racial stereotypes. The stereotype threat both perpetuates and is caused by the achievement gap. Furthermore, students of low academic performance demonstrate low expectations for themselves and self-handicapping tendencies. Psychologists Claude Steele, Joshua Aronson, and Steven Spencer, have found that Microaggression such as passing reminders that someone belongs to one group or another (i.e.: a group stereotyped as inferior in academics) can affect test performance.\n\nSteele, Aronson and Spencer, have examined and performed experiments to see how stereotypes can threaten how students evaluate themselves, which then alters academic identity and intellectual performance. Steele tested the stereotype threat theory by giving Black and White college students a half-hour test using difficult questions from the verbal Graduate Record Examination (GRE). In the stereotype-threat condition, they told students the test diagnosed intellectual ability. In saying that the test diagnoses intellectual ability it can potentially elicit the stereotype that Blacks are less intelligent than Whites. In the no-stereotype-threat condition, they told students that the test was a problem-solving lab task that said nothing about ability. This made stereotypes irrelevant. In the stereotype threat condition, Blacks who were evenly matched with Whites in their group by SAT scores, performed worse compared to their White counterparts. In the experiments with no stereotype threat, Blacks performed slightly better than in those with a stereotype threat, though still significantly worse than whites. Aronson believes the study of stereotype threat offers some \"exciting and encouraging answers to these old questions [of achievement gaps] by looking at the psychology of stigma -- the way human beings respond to negative stereotypes about their racial or gender group\". When pressed, Steele, Aronson, and Spenser, acknowledge that their experiments on stereotype threat only explain a modest portion of test-score gaps. However, their findings have consistently been erroneously attributed to explaining the entirety of the test score gap. The American Psychological Association is one such institution that misuses the study to posit that stereotype threat undercuts the tendency of evolutionary psychologists to lay the blame on genetic and cultural factors, such as whether African Americans \"value\" education. Researchers from Heterodox Academy, a think tank dedicated to pursuing intellectual diversity in academia, posit that the tendency of some social scientists to over emphasise the potency of stereotype threat, has to do with their loyalty to politically correct clean slate ideology, rather than objective reasoning. Adherence to such dogma therefore permits these individuals to dismiss the possibility of less palatable explanations for racial group disparities, such as genetics and culture.\n\nAnother consequence of the racial achievement gap can be seen in the lack of representation of minority groups in public office. Studies have shown that higher socioeconomic status—in terms of income, occupation, and/or educational attainment—is correlated with higher participation in politics. This participation is defined as \"individual or collective action at the national or local level that supports or opposes state structures, authorities, and/or decisions regarding allocation of public goods\"; this action ranges from engaging in activities such as voting in elections to running for public office.\n\nSince median income per capita for minority groups(Except Asians) is lower than that of White Americans, and since minority groups(Except Asians) are more likely to occupy less gainful employment and achieve lower education levels, there is a lowered likelihood of political participation among minority groups. Education attainment is highly correlated with earnings and occupation. And there is a proven disparity between educational attainment of White Americans and minority groups, with only 30% of bachelor's degrees awarded in 2009 to minority groups. Thus socioeconomic status—and therefore political participation—is correlated with race. Research has shown that African Americans, Latino Americans, and Asian Americans are less politically active, by varying degrees, than White Americans.\n\nA consequence of underrepresentation of minority groups in leadership is incongruence between policy and community needs. A study conducted by Kenneth J. Meier and Robert E. England of 82 of the largest urban school districts in the United States showed that African American membership on the school board of these districts led to more policies encouraging more African American inclusion in policy considerations. It has been shown that both passive and active representation of minority groups serves to align constituent policy preference and representation of these opinions, and thereby facilitate political empowerment of these groups.\n\nAchievement gaps among students may also manifest themselves in the racial and ethnic composition of special education and gifted education programs. Typically, African American and Hispanic students are enrolled in greater numbers in special education programs than their numbers would indicate in most populations, while these groups are underrepresented in gifted programs. Research shows that these disproportionate enrollment trends may be a consequence of the differences in educational achievement among groups.\n\nThe United States has seen a variety of different attempts to narrow the racial achievement gap. These attempts include focusing on the importance of early childhood education, using federal standards based reforms, and implementing institutional changes.\n\nThere are large cognitive and emotional gaps that form at early ages. They persist throughout childhood and strongly influence adult outcomes. The gaps originate before formal schooling begins and persists through childhood and into adulthood. Remediating the problems created by the gaps is not as cost effective as preventing them at the outset. Eight psychologists performed an experiment of infant children born in Quebec in 1997/1998 and followed annually until 7 years of age. Children receiving formal childcare were distinguished from those receiving informal childcare. Children of mothers with low levels of education showed a consistent pattern of lower scores on academic readiness and achievement tests at 6 and 7 years than those of highly educated mothers, unless they received formal childcare. The findings provide further evidence suggesting that formal childcare could represent a preventative means of attenuating effects of disadvantage on children's early academic trajectory. Economic research shows that investment at this stage is both more effective and cost effective than interventions later in a child's life. An evaluation of Chicago Public Schools' federally funded Child Parent Centers find that for every $1 invested in the preschool program, nearly $11 is projected to return to society over the participants' lifetimes. This amount is equivalent to an 18% annual return.\n\nHead Start Program, Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), and various state-funded pre-kindergarten programs target students from low-income families in an attempt to equal the playing field for these children before school begins. The evidence in favor of investing in early childhood education as a means of closing the achievement gap is strong: various studies have a positive and long-lasting effect on academic achievement of low-income and minority students. Evaluations of Head Start have reported positive results. However, fade-out effects were found in Head Start\n\nCritics question whether an emphasis on early childhood education will benefit long-term kindergarten through 12th grade learning. Critics point to fade-out effects found in Head Start. Adam Schaeffer, a policy analyst with the Cato Institute highlights research shows that students make some gains in the first two years after preschool but it fades out after. Recent literature also reveals positive, short-term effects of early childhood education on children's development that weaken over time. Even more substantial is the narrowing of educational achievement levels in the US compared to those of higher-achieving nations, such as Finland and Korea. McKinsey & Company estimate a $1.3 trillion to $2.3 trillion, or a 9 to 16 percent difference in GDP. However, Mary Ellen McGuire, an education policy director at think tank New America Foundations, pointed out that early childhood education isn't intended to be a silver-bullet fix to the educational system. It is merely one aspect. In order for those effects to last high-quality early childhood education needs to be connected to high-quality elementary schools.\n\nStandards-based reform has been a popular strategy used to try to eliminate the achievement gap in recent years. The goal of this reform strategy is to raise the educational achievement of all students, not just minorities. Many states have adopted higher standards for student achievement. This type of reform focuses on scores on standardized tests, and these scores show that a disproportionate share of the students who are not meeting state achievement standards are Hispanic and African-American. Therefore, it is not enough for minorities to improve just as much as Whites do—they must make greater educational gains in order to close the gap.\n\nOne example of standards-based reform was Goals 2000, also known as the Educate America Act. Goals 2000 was enacted in 1994 by President Clinton and allowed the federal government a new role in its support for education. It aimed to \"provide a framework for meeting the National Education Goals\". It was designed to provide resources to states and communities to make sure that all students achieved their full potential by the year 2000. This program set forth eight goals for American students, including all children in America will start school ready to learn, increasing the high school graduation rate to at least 90%, and increasing the standing of American students to first in the world in achievement in math and science. Goals 2000 also placed an emphasis on the importance of technology, promising that all teachers would have modern computers in their classroom and that effective software would be an integral part of the curriculum in every school. President George Bush's No Child Left Behind Act essentially replaced the Goals 2000 program.\n\nThe No Child Left Behind Act(NCLB) legislation was signed by President Bush in January 2002 and dramatically expanded federal influence over the nation's more than 90,000 public schools. The main implications of this legislation was states had to conduct annual student assessments linked to state standards to identify schools failing to make \"adequate yearly progress\" (AYP) toward the stated goal of having all students achieve proficiency in reading and math by 2013–2014 and to institute sanctions and rewards based on each school's AYP status. One of the motivations for this reform is that publicizing detailed information on school-specific performance and linking that \"high-stakes\" test performance to the possibility of sanctions will improve the focus and productivity of public schools. However, critics charge that test-based school accountability has several negative consequences for the broad cognitive development of children.\n\nCritics argue that NCLB and other test-based accountability policies cause educators to shift resources away from important but non-tested subjects and to focus instruction in math and reading on the relatively narrow set of topics that are most heavily represented on the high-stakes tests. Some even suggest that high-stakes testing may lead school personnel to intentionally manipulate student test scores.\n\nNCLB has shown mixed success in eliminating the racial achievement gap. Although test scores are improving, they are improving equally for all races, which means that minority students are still behind whites. There has also been some criticism as to whether an increase in test scores actually corresponds to improvements in education, since test standards vary from state to state and from year to year.\n\nResearch has shown that making certain changes within schools can improve the performance of minority students. These include lowering class size in schools with a large population of minority students; expanding access to high-quality preschool programs to minority families; and focus on teaching the critical thinking and problem-solving skills that are necessary to retain high-level information.\n\nIn the United States there are now 5,042 charter schools serving 1.5 million students in 39 states and Washington, D.C. Although they serve only a fraction of the nation's public school students, charter schools have seized a prominent role in education today. The question of whether charters or traditional public schools do a better job of educating students is still open to debate. The research is highly mixed due the complexities of comparison and wide performance differences among charters.\n\nCharter schools are by definition independent public schools. Although funded with taxpayer dollars, they operate free from many of the laws and regulations that govern traditional public schools. In exchange for that freedom, they are bound to the terms of a contract, or \"charter,\" that lays out a school's mission, academic goals, and accountability procedures. The average charter school enrollment is 372, compared with about 478 in all public schools. Researchers have linked small schools with higher achievement, more individualized instruction, greater safety, and increased student involvement. With their relative autonomy, charter schools are also seen as a way to provide greater educational choice and innovation within the public school system. Another attraction of charter schools is that they often have specialized educational programs. Charters frequently take alternative curricular approaches, emphasize particular fields of study or serve special populations of students. That growth of charter schools has been particularly strong in cities. More than 55 percent of public charter schools were in urban settings. \n\nHowever, there are some criticisms of charter schools. There is a high variability in the quality and success of charter schools across the nation. A high-profile report from the American Federation of Teachers (2002), for example, argued that many charter school authorizers have failed to hold the administrators and teachers accountable, leaving some students to languish in low-performing schools. Another concern of critics is that charters are more racially segregated than traditional public schools, thus denying students the educational \"benefits associated with attending diverse schools\". Skeptics also worry that charter schools unfairly divert resources and policy attention from regular public schools.\n\nTaken together, studies about charter schools are inconclusive and have mixed results. Studies by the Goldwater Institute and California State University-Los Angeles found that students in charter schools show higher growth in achievement than their counterparts in traditional public schools. However, another study by the Institute of Race and Poverty at the University of Minnesota Law show that after two decades of experience, most charter schools in the Twin Cities still underperform comparable traditional public schools and are highly segregated by race and income.\n\nTo evade a shift to English, some Native American tribes have initiated language immersion schools for children, where a native Indian language is the medium of instruction. For example, the Cherokee Nation instigated a 10-year language preservation plan that involved growing new fluent speakers of the Cherokee language from childhood on up through school immersion programs as well as a collaborative community effort to continue to use the language at home. This plan was part of an ambitious goal that in 50 years, 80% or more of the Cherokee people will be fluent in the language. The Cherokee Preservation Foundation has invested $3 million into opening schools, training teachers, and developing curricula for language education, as well as initiating community gatherings where the language can be actively used. Formed in 2006, the Kituwah Preservation & Education Program (KPEP) on the Qualla Boundary focuses on language immersion programs for children from birth to fifth grade, developing cultural resources for the general public and community language programs to foster the Cherokee language among adults.\n\nThere is also a Cherokee language immersion school in Tahlequah, Oklahoma that educates students from pre-school through eighth grade. Because Oklahoma's official language is English, Cherokee immersion students are hindered when taking state-mandated tests because they have little competence in English. The Department of Education of Oklahoma said that in 2012 state tests: 11% of the school's sixth-graders showed proficiency in math, and 25% showed proficiency in reading; 31% of the seventh-graders showed proficiency in math, and 87% showed proficiency in reading; 50% of the eighth-graders showed proficiency in math, and 78% showed proficiency in reading. The Oklahoma Department of Education listed the charter school as a Targeted Intervention school, meaning the school was identified as a low-performing school but has not so that it was a Priority School. Ultimately, the school made a C, or a 2.33 grade point average on the state's A-F report card system. The report card shows the school getting an F in mathematics achievement and mathematics growth, a C in social studies achievement, a D in reading achievement, and an A in reading growth and student attendance. \"The C we made is tremendous,\" said school principal Holly Davis, \"[t]here is no English instruction in our school's younger grades, and we gave them this test in English.\" She said she had anticipated the low grade because it was the school's first year as a state-funded charter school, and many students had difficulty with English. Eighth graders who graduate from the Tahlequah immersion school are fluent speakers of the language, and they usually go on to attend Sequoyah High School where classes are taught in both English and Cherokee.\n\nPrivate schools are another institution used in attempt to narrow the racial achievement gap. \nA disparity between achievement gaps in private and public schools can be seen using a U.S. Department of Education database to compute the average National Assessment of Educational Progress test score differences between black students and white students in both public and private schools.\n\nThe table on White/Black NAEP Achievement Differences for Public and Private Schools above, shows a sizeable achievement gap between black and white fourth-graders in both public and private schools. However, the private-sector achievement gap is narrower in the 12th grade than the fourth grade for all of the core NAEP subjects. Public schools, on the other hand, see a larger gap in both writing and mathematics at the 12th-grade level than at the fourth. Averaged across subjects, the public school racial achievement gap is virtually unchanged between fourth and 12th grades, while the gap in private schools is an average of 27.5 percentage points smaller in the 12th grade than the fourth.\n\nThe achievement gap closes faster in private schools not because white private school students lose ground with respect to white public school students as they move to higher grades, but because black private school students learn at a substantially higher rate than black public school students. Economist Derek Neal has found that black students attending urban private schools are far more likely to complete high school, gain admission to college, and complete college than similar students in urban public schools. Similarly, in a study comparing graduation rates of all Milwaukee public school students (of all income levels) with those of the low-income participants in the city's private school voucher program, Manhattan Institute Senior Fellow Jay Greene found the voucher students were more than one-and-a-half-times as likely to graduate as public school students.\n\nHowever, others argue that private schools actually perpetuate and exacerbate the achievement gap. Without controlling for student background differences, private schools scored higher than public schools. However, a study showed that demographic differences between students in public and private schools more than account for the relatively high scores of private schools. In fact, after controlling for these differences, the advantageous \"private school effect\" disappears and even reverses in most cases. Private schools have selective acceptance and a different demographic. Another criticism is that private schools only serve a small percent of the population and therefore cannot make a huge effect on closing the achievement gap. \n\nGreg Wiggan believes that although there is a lot of research on the topic of the racial achievement gap, there is a gap in the research. Wiggan believes that the gap that is missing is the research of the perspective of the students, specifically high-achieving Black students in private schools.\n\nTeach for America (TFA) recruits and selects graduates from some of the top colleges and universities across the country to teach in the nation's most challenging K-12 schools throughout the nation. It began in 1990 with 500 teachers and has since expanded to over 4,000 teacher placements in 2010. In the Journal of Policy Analysis and Management they use individual-level student data linked to teacher data in North Carolina to estimate the effects of having a TFA teacher compared to a traditional teacher. According to studies about the effect of different teacher-preparation programs in Louisiana, North Carolina, and Tennessee, TFA is among the most effective sources of new teachers in low-income communities. Each of these statewide studies, conducted between 2009 and 2012, found that corps members often help their students achieve academic gains at rates equal to or larger than those for students of more veteran teachers. The findings show that TFA teachers are in general more effective, according to student exam scores, than traditional teachers that would be in the classroom in their stead. These estimates demonstrate that, compared with traditional teachers with similar levels of experience, TFA teachers have strong positive effects on student test scores. And despite the limitations of TFA teachers, they are no worse than average traditional teachers in teaching math subjects and much more effective in teaching science subjects.\n\nAlthough TFA teachers tend to have stronger academic credentials, they have not been taught in traditional training programs, are more likely to teach for a few years, and are assigned to some of the most challenging schools in the country. Given these differences, the TFA program has been controversial. Critics of Teach For America point out two of the major problems. The first is that most TFA teachers have not received traditional teacher training. TFA corps members participate in an intensive five-week summer national institute and a two-week local orientation and induction program prior to their first teaching assignment, and therefore some argued they are not as prepared for the demands of the classroom as traditionally trained teachers. The second criticism is that TFA requires only a two-year teaching commitment, and the majority of corps members leave at the end of that commitment. The short tenure of TFA teachers is troubling because research shows that new teachers are generally less effective than more experienced teachers.\n\nMany different types of interventions can be done to help students who are a part of a negative stereotype, but a self-affirmation intervention would be the most helpful for students academic performance. This intervention was expected to help improve a group of students who are at risk to intervene with the group’s academic performance. This intervention was tested in two different double-blind field experiences, and then compared. One of the things seen was that African American students who were a part of the control condition, who saw their performance declining early in the term, their performance did not improve as the term went on, and in fact it got worse. One thing that could lead to a slight improvement is having a small reduction in the psychological threats. Small interventions were seen to have a greater effect when they were carried out in multiple trials, different times. Having just one intervention one time does not have a positive effect on a student, rather if there are multiple smaller interventions carried out different times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40299130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40299130", "title": "Ramon Sainero", "text": "Ramon Sainero\n\nRamon Sainero (born May 25, 1944) is the director of the Institute of Celtic Studies (IEC) of Spain and Associate Professor and Professor at during the last 37 years.\n\nRamon Sainero has a degree in Philology from the Universidad Complutense of Madrid. He attended PhD and M.A. studies in Irish literature in the New University of Ulster (Coleraine) and obtained his PhD in the Universidad Complutense of Madrid. He has attended intensive courses in Celtic languages and literature for over ten years in Ireland, at the Universities of Galway (Cararoe), Trinity College (Dublin), The University of Ulster (Coleraine) and Oideas Gael (Donegald). His university teaching has been given at the University of Ulster (Lector) and the Universidad Complutense (Lecturer).\n\nHis field of research for many years has been focused on Celtic Studies and the influence of early Indo-European culture in the Iberian Peninsula and the British Isles. The commonly maintained theory is that the Celts, or at least Celtic Civilization, originated in central Europe, with Halstatt (Austria) and La Tene (Switzerland) as the principal sources of information on these origins. Although it appears evident that Central Europe was a key settlement site, from which the Celtic culture spread outwards, this does not mean the Celts, or the Celtic culture, originated from that part of Europe. The Danube, the Mediterranean Sea and Spain could also have constituted the site from which this invasive wave made its way into the interior of Europe, and this is a possibility that we should not discard. Nowadays a new theory has been developed with historical, archaeological, linguistic and cultural proofs, a theory that during centuries was considered only as mythology.\n\nConcerning this new theory, the following is a list of published studies he has authored:\n\n\nHe offers in his studies a series of surprising data according with the Irish manuscript Leabhar Gabhala (Book of Invasions) on that perhaps may demonstrate how many of the historical events described in this manuscript were not pure invention and that, moreover, provide a historical and literary interpretation much more truthful than has so far been thought to be the case.\n\nAt the estuary of the River Danube (Thrace), around the Black Sea and the eastern end of the Mediterranean, artistic, cultural and archaeological remains exist, some of which predate the 7th century BC, which point to the existence of a people, or series of people, with a shared religion and culture. The nearest inhabitants to them at that time, the Greeks, referred to them as Scythians, and many hypotheses exist that indicate that the Celtic culture was influenced by them in its origins, despite the fact that more complex forms were subsequently to develop.\n\nIt was these Scythians who, according to the Leabhar Gabhála (Book of Invasions), on their journey across the Mediterranean would sometimes, but not always, make their settlements first in Greece, then in Egypt, subsequently in Spain and finally in Ireland. It was their descendants who were to go on to create the early Celtic kingdoms of Spain and Ireland. Up to this point, the aforementioned book has been considered by many specialists to be a fabulous story full of fantasy.\n\nOne important and fundamental consideration in these books is that, when we refer to the Scythians (Scolots) and the Celto-Scythians (Thracian and/or Caucasian people?), we are in fact referring to Indo-European peoples who emanated out from the plains bordering on the Black Sea in a series of waves towards Central Europe, the Atlantic and the Mediterranean. According to him, It would perhaps be more accurate to speak of tribes, clans or waves of Indo-European migrants, but it is the Celtic manuscripts that speak of the Scythians and Scots (¿Scits or Scolots?) as the primitive origin of Celtic people.\n\nIt is important to point out that the Scythians did not leave behind any written documentation. Presumably, they did not have a written language in this sense, but their Greek, Persian, Assyrian and Phoenician neighbours did, and indeed left us clear information on their history and culture. Their migrations were sometimes rapidly undertaken and took them long distances from their previous site, on which basis it is not surprising that the primitive documents, acceptable or not, make references to the Scots in Ireland (people connected in their pilgrimage with Thracians, Greeks, Spaniards and other people). Sainero also credits them with possessing a significant army, capable of defeating, at certain times in history, the most fearsome armies of the era, such as the Medes, Persians and Assyrians.\n\nHis comparison, following the above example is this: Approximately one thousand two hundred years previously, the peoples settled on the plains on the shores of Thracia and/or the Caucasus Sea, the Scythians and other nearby communities with settlements in Greece or Asia Minor, nomadic and skilled warriors and horsemen, were able, our evidence shows, to conquer some territories in Europe and, assimilating the culture of those they conquered, to go on to create a new civilization: the Celtic civilization.\n\n\nRamon Sainero is going to publish with Ediciones Akal the following titles:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21193109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21193109", "title": "Repetek Biosphere State Reserve", "text": "Repetek Biosphere State Reserve\n\nRepetek Biosphere State Reserve, often referred to as Repetek Nature or Desert Reserve, (, \"Репетек горагханасы\") is a desert nature reserve (\"zapovednik\") of Turkmenistan, located in Lebap Province, East Karakum Desert, near Amu Darya. It is located approximately south from Türkmenabat and is known for its \"zemzen\" (desert monitor which is Varanus griseus). Established in 1928 for the study and preservation of a sand-desert ecosystem, it covers an area of .\n\nThe landscape of the reserve is arid, with extensive ridged sand dunes some in height and in length in many areas, large areas of sand dune and valley-like depressions. Black saxaul (\"Haloxylon aphyllum\"), rare to most part of Central Asia covers more than , approximately 4.5% of the territory of the reserve. The soils have sandy subsoils, but some \"21 trees, 104 grasses, 8 mushrooms, 1 moss, 68 soil algae and 197 fungi\" grow within the reserve.\n\nThe Repetek sandy desert scientific station was organized in 1912 by the decision of the Russian Geographical Society, and the reserve was established in 1928 on the base of the scientific station. During the Soviet period the reserve belongs to the Institute of Deserts of the Turkmen SSR Academy of Sciences. The list of scientific publications concerning with the Repetek sandy desert station and the biosphere reserve since 1982 to 1991 consists of about 250 papers (30% on landscape structure and geography, 20% on botany and 50% on zoology).\n\nThe Institute of Deserts, Flora and Fauna of the Academy of Sciences of Turkmenistan was established in 1962 to study ways of reclaiming desert land for economic use in the reserve.\n\nThe Repetek Biosphere State Reserve is part of an Important Bird Area (IBA) and since 1979 has been an under the monitoring of UNESCO but \"the site is under the administration of the Ministry of Nature Protection of Turkmenistan\". The reserve \"supports the most complete assemblage of bird species typical of the sand desert of the Karakum\" and \"has an important population of Goitered Gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa) which is listed as Vulnerable (VU) in the IUCN Red List\".\n\nRepetek Biosphere State Reserve has a desert climate (Köppen climate classification \"BWk\"), with cool winters and very hot summers. Rainfall is generally light and erratic, and occurs mainly in the winter and autumn months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11675243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11675243", "title": "Retail design", "text": "Retail design\n\nRetail design is a creative and commercial discipline that combines several different areas of expertise\ntogether in the design and construction of retail space. Retail design is primarily a specialized practice of architecture and interior design, however it also incorporates elements of interior decoration, industrial design, graphic design, ergonomics, and advertising.\n\nRetail design is a very specialized discipline due to the heavy demands placed on retail space. Because the primary purpose of retail space is to stock and sell product to consumers, the spaces must be designed in a way that promotes an enjoyable and hassle-free shopping experience for the consumer.\nFor example, research shows that male and female shoppers who were accidentally touched from behind by other shoppers left a store earlier than people who had not been touched and evaluated brands more negatively. The space must be specially-tailored to the kind of product being sold in that space; for example, a bookstore requires many large shelving units to accommodate small products that can be arranged categorically while a clothing store requires more open space to fully display product.\n\nRetail spaces, especially when they form part of a retail chain, must also be designed to draw people into the space to shop. The storefront must act as a billboard for the store, often employing large display windows that allow shoppers to see into the space and the product inside. In the case of a retail chain, the individual spaces must be unified in their design.\n\nRetail design first began to grow in the middle of the 19th century, with stores such as Bon Marche and Printemps in Paris, \"followed by Marshall Fields in Chicago, Selfridges in London and Macy's in New York.\" These early retail design stores were swiftly continued with an innovation called the chain store. \n\nThe first known chain department stores were established in Belgium in 1875, when Isidore, Benjamin and Modeste Dewachter incorporated \"Dewachter frères\" (Dewachter Brothers) selling ready-to-wear clothing for men and children and specialty clothing such as riding apparel and beachwear. The firm opened with four locations and, by 1904, \"Maison Dewachter\" (House of Dewachter) had stores in 20 cities and towns in Belgium and France, with multiple stores in some cities. Isidore's eldest son, Louis Dewachter, managed the chain at its peak and also became an internationally known landscape artist, painting under the pseudonym Louis Dewis.\n\nThe first retail chain store in the United States was opened in the early 20th century by Frank Winfield Woolworth, which quickly became a franchise across the US. Other chain stores began growing in places like the UK a decade or so later, with stores like Boots. After World War II, a new type of retail design building known as the shopping centre came into being. This type of building took two different paths in comparison between the US and Europe. Shopping centres began being built out of town within the United States to benefit the suburban family, while Europe began putting shopping centres in the middle of town. The first shopping centre in the Netherlands was built in the 1950s, as retail design ideas began spreading east.\n\nThe next evolution of retail design was the creation of the boutique in the 1960s, which emphasized retail design run by individuals. Some of the earliest examples of boutiques are the Biba boutique created by Barbara Hulanicki and the Habitat line of stores made by Terence Conran. The rise of the boutique was followed, in the next two decades, with an overall increase in consumer spending across the developed world. This rise made retail design shift to compensate for increased customers and alternative focuses. Many retail design stores redesigned themselves over the period to keep up with changing consumer tastes. These changes resulted on one side with the creation of multiple \"expensive, one-off designer shops\" catering to specific fashion designers and retailers.\n\nThe rise of the internet and internet retailing in the latter part of the 20th century and into the 21st century saw another change in retail design to compensate. Many different sectors not related to the internet reached out to retail design and its practices to lure online shoppers back to physical shops, where retail design can be properly utilized.\n\nA retail designer must create a thematic experience for the consumer, by using spatial cues to entertain as well as entice the consumer to purchase goods and interact with the space. The success of their designs are not measured by design critics but rather the records of the store which compare amount of foot traffic against the overall productivity. Retail designers have an acute awareness that the store and their designs are the background to the merchandise and are only there to represent and create the best possible environment in which to reflect the merchandise to the target consumer group.\n\nSince the evolution of retail design and its impact on productivity have become clear, a series of standardisations in the techniques and design qualities has been determined. These standardisations range from alterations to the perspective of the structure of the space, entrances, circulation systems, atmospheric qualities (light and sound) and materiality. By exploring these standardisations in retail design the consumer will be given a thematic experience that entices them to purchase the merchandise. It is also important to acknowledge that a retail space must combine both permanent and non permanent features, that allow it to change as the needs of the consumer and merchandise change (e.g. per season).\n\nThe structure of retail space creates the constraints of the overall design; often the spaces already exist, and have had many prior uses. It is at this stage that logistics must be determined, structural features like columns, stairways, ceiling height, windows and emergency exists all must be factored into the final design. In retail one hundred percent of the space must be utilised and have a purpose. The floor plan creates the circulation which then directly controls the direction of the traffic flow based on the studied psychology of consumer movement pattern within a retail space. Circulation is important because it ensures that the consumer moves through the store from front to back, guiding them to important displays and in the end to the cashier. There are six basic store layouts and circulation plans that all provide a different experience:\n\n\nOnce the overall structure and circulation of the space has been determined, the atmosphere and thematics of the space must be created through lighting, sound, materials and visual branding. These design elements will cohesively have the greatest impact on the consumer and thus the level of productivity that could be achieved.\n\nLighting can have a dramatic impact on the space. It needs to be functional but also complement the merchandise as well as emphasize key points throughout the store. The lighting should be layered and of a variety of intensities and fixtures. Firstly, examine the natural light and what impact it has in the space. Natural light adds interest and clarity to the space; also consumers also prefer to examine the quality of merchandise in natural light. If no natural light exists, a sky light can be used to introduce it to the retail space. The lighting of the ceiling and roof is the next thing to consider. This lighting should wash the structural features while creating vectors that direct the consumer to key merchandise selling areas. The next layer should emphasize the selling areas. These lights should be direct but not too bright and harsh. Poor lighting can cause eye strain and an uncomfortable experience for the consumer. To minimize the possibility of eye strain, the ratio of luminance should decrease between merchandise selling areas. The next layer will complement and bring focus onto the merchandise; this lighting should be flattering for the merchandise and consumer. The final layer is to install functional lighting such as clear exit signs.\n\nAmbiance can then be developed within the atmosphere through sound and audio, the music played within the store should reflect what your target market would be drawn to, this would also be developed through the merchandise that is being marketed. In a lingerie store the music should be soft, feminine and romanticized; where in a technology department the music would be more upbeat and more masculine.\n\nMateriality is another key selling tool, the choices made must not only be aesthetically pleasing and persuasive but also functional with a minimal need for maintenance. Retail spaces are high traffic area and are thus exposed to a lot of wear this means that possible finishes of the materials should be durable. The warmth of a material will make the space more inviting, a floor that is firm and somewhat buoyant will be more comfortable for that consumer to walk on and thus this will allow them to take longer when exploring the store. By switching materials throughout the store zones/ areas can be defined, for example by making the path one material and contrast it against another for the selling areas this help to guide the consumer through the store. Colour is also important to consider it must not over power or clash against the merchandise but rather create a complementary background for the merchandise. As merchandise will change seasonally the interior colours should not be trend based but rather have timeless appeal like neutral based colours.\n\nVisual branding of the store will ensure a memorable experience for the consumer to take with them once they leave the store ensuring that they will want to return. The key factor is consistency exterior branding and signage should continue into the interior, they should attract, stimulate and dramatise the store. To ensure consistency the font should be consistent with the font size altering. The interior branding should allow the consumer to easily self direct themselves through the store, proper placement of sales signs that will draw consumer in and show exactly where the cashier is located. The branding should reflect what the merchandise is and what the target market would be drawn to.\n\nThe final element of a well-executed retail space is the staging of the consumer's perspective. It is the role of retail design to have total control of the view that the consumer will have of the retail space. From the exterior of a retail store the consumer should have a clear unobstructed view into the interior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "88600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88600", "title": "Rock opera", "text": "Rock opera\n\nA rock opera is a collection of rock music songs with lyrics that relate to a common story. Rock operas are typically released as concept albums and are not scripted for acting, which distinguishes them from operas, although several have been adapted as rock musicals. The use of various character roles within the song lyrics is a common storytelling device. The success of the rock opera genre has inspired similar works in other musical styles, such as rap opera.\nIn an early use of the term, the July 4, 1966, edition of \"RPM Magazine\" (published in Toronto) reported that \"Bruce Cockburn and Mr [William] Hawkins are working on a Rock Opera, operating on the premise that to write you need only 'something to say'.\"\n\nColin Fleming of \"The Atlantic\" has identified \"The Story of Simon Simopath\" (1967) by British psychedelic band Nirvana as the first recorded rock opera. Later in 1967, Montreal's Influence recorded a long suite titled \"Mad Birds of Prey (A Mini-Opera)\", which closed out their sole album, which was released in January 1968. Perhaps unaware of these earlier efforts, Neil Strauss of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"S.F. Sorrow\" (1968) by The Pretty Things is \"generally acknowledged as the first rock opera\". Although Pete Townshend denied taking any influence from \"S.F. Sorrow\", critics have compared The Who's \"Tommy\" to it. Scott Mervis of the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" wrote that, although \"Tommy\" was not the first rock opera, it was the first album to be billed as such. \"Tommy\" would go on to influence \"On and On\", a rap opera by The Fat Boys and \"American Idiot\", a punk rock opera by Green Day. In an effort to appeal to more modern audiences, opera companies have welcomed more pop and rock influences. The resulting rock operas have met varying degrees of success as the worlds of high art and low art mix.\n\nIn Russian music, the term \"zong-opera\" (Зонг-опера) is sometimes used, since the first Soviet-Russian rock-opera \"Orpheus and Eurydice\" was described with this term, though the term \"rock-opera\" was already known in the Soviet rock music circles.\n\nA rock opera that experienced commercial recording and Broadway success is \"Jesus Christ Superstar\", written by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice, and in respect of which Lloyd Webber said \"the piece was written as a rock album from the outset and set out from the start to tell the story through the music itself.\" \n\nAccording to Fleming, rock operas are more akin to a cantata or suite, as they are not usually acted out. Similarly, Andrew Clements of \"The Guardian\" called \"Tommy\" a subversively-labeled musical. Clements states that lyrics drive rock operas, which makes them not a true form of opera. Responding to accusations that rock operas are pretentious and overblown, Pete Townshend wrote that pop music by its very nature deflates such attitudes and is simplistic. Townshend said that the only goal of pop music is to reach audiences, and rock operas are merely one more way to do so. Peter Kiesewalter, on the other hand, said that rock music and opera are \"both overblown, massive spectacles\" that cover the same themes. Kiesewalter, who was originally not a fan of opera, did not think the two styles would mix well together, but his modernized operas with rock music surprised him with their popularity at the East Village Opera Company.\n\nRock operas are usually recorded and performed on albums by the artists themselves, but they can also be performed on the stage, such as \"Rent\", which played on Broadway. This usage has also courted controversy; Anne Midgette of \"The New York Times\" called them musicals with \"no more than the addition of a keyboard and a drum set\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24109454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24109454", "title": "Semantic structure analysis", "text": "Semantic structure analysis\n\nSemantic structure analysis (or SSA) is a methodology for systematic description of the intended meaning of natural language, developed by the Summer Institute of Linguistics. The name is also used for Eugene Nida's technique for mapping lexical items from a source language to a receptor language in translation theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20293298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20293298", "title": "Southern Dispersal", "text": "Southern Dispersal\n\nIn the context of the recent African origin of modern humans, the Southern Dispersal scenario (also the coastal migration hypothesis) refers to the early migration along the southern coast of Asia, from the Arabian peninsula via Persia and India to Southeast Asia and Oceania. Alternative names include the \"southern coastal route\" or \"rapid coastal settlement\". \n\nThe coastal route theory is primarily used to describe the initial peopling of the Arabian peninsula, India, Southeast Asia, New Guinea, Australia, Near Oceania, coastal China, and Japan between roughly 70,000 to 60,000 years ago.\n\nIt is linked with the presence and dispersal of mtDNA haplogroup M and haplogroup N, as well as the specific distribution patterns of Y-DNA haplogroup C and haplogroup D, in these regions.\n\nThe theory proposes that early \"Homo sapiens\", some of the bearers of mitochondrial haplogroup L3 arrived in the Arabian peninsula about 70,000 years ago, crossing from East Africa via the Bab-el-Mandeb straits. It has been estimated that from a population of 2,000 to 5,000 individuals in Africa, only a small group, possibly as few as 150 to 1,000 people, crossed the Red Sea. The group would have travelled along the coastal route around Arabia and Persia to India relatively rapidly, within a few thousand years. From India, they would have spread to Southeast Asia (\"Sundaland\") and Oceania (\"Sahul\").\n"}
{"id": "66252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66252", "title": "Spin (propaganda)", "text": "Spin (propaganda)\n\nIn public relations and politics, spin is a form of propaganda, achieved through providing a biased interpretation of an event or campaigning to persuade public opinion in favor or against some organization or public figure. While traditional public relations and advertising may also rely on altering the presentation of the facts, \"spin\" often implies the use of , deceptive, and highly manipulative tactics. \n\nBecause of the frequent association between spin and press conferences (especially government press conferences), the room in which these conferences take place is sometimes described as a \"spin room\". Public relations advisors, pollsters and media consultants who develop deceptive or misleading messages may be referred to as \"spin doctors\" or \"spinmeisters\".\n\nAs such, a standard tactic used in \"spinning\" is to reframe, reposition, or otherwise modify the perception of an issue or event, to reduce any negative impact it might have on public opinion. For example, a company whose top-selling product is found to have a significant safety problem may \"reframe\" the issue by criticizing the safety of its main competitor's products or indeed by highlighting the risk associated with the entire product category. This might be done using a \"catchy\" slogan or sound bite that can help to persuade the public of the company's biased point of view. This tactic could enable the company to defocus the public's attention on the negative aspects of its product. \n\nAs it takes experience and training to \"spin\" an issue, spinning is typically a service provided by paid media advisors and media consultants. The largest and most powerful companies may have in-house employees and sophisticated units with expertise in spinning issues. While spin is often considered to be a private sector tactic, in the 1990s and 2000s, some politicians and political staff have been accused by their opponents of using deceptive \"spin\" tactics to manipulate public opinion or deceive the public. Spin approaches used by some political teams include \"burying\" potentially negative new information by releasing it at the end of the workday on the last day before a long weekend; selectively cherry-picking quotes from previous speeches made by their employer or an opposing politician to give the impression that they advocate a certain position; and purposely leaking misinformation about an opposing politician or candidate that casts them in a negative light.\nEdward Bernays has been called the \"Father of Public Relations\". As Larry Tye describes in his book \"The Father of Spin: Edward L. Bernays and The Birth of Public Relations\", Bernays was able to help tobacco and alcohol companies use techniques to make certain behaviors more socially acceptable in 20th-century United States. Tye claims that Bernays was proud of his work as a propagandist. As information technology has increased dramatically since the end of the 20th century, commentators like Joe Trippi have advanced the theory that modern Internet activism spells the end for political spin. By providing immediate counterpoint to every point a \"spin doctor\" can come up with, this theory suggests, the omnipresence of the Internet in some societies will inevitably lead to a reduction in the effectiveness of spin.\n\nThe techniques of spin include:\n\nFor years, businesses have used fake or misleading customer testimonials by editing/spinning customers to reflect a much more satisfied experience than was actually the case. In 2009, the Federal Trade Commission updated their laws to include measures to prohibit this type of \"spinning\" and have been enforcing these laws as of late. \n\nSeveral companies that verify the authenticity of the testimonials businesses present on the marketing materials in an effort to convince one to become a customer have arisen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35525230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35525230", "title": "Structural priming", "text": "Structural priming\n\nStructural priming is a form of positive priming, in that it induces a tendency to repeat or more easily process a current sentence that is similar in structure to a previously presented prime. It is a phenomenon studied in the field of psycholinguistics. J. Kathryn Bock introduced it in 1986. Several paradigms exist to elicit structural priming. Structural priming persists cross-linguistically. One specific form of structural priming is syntactic priming.\n\n\nBock introduced a picture description task to investigate this phenomenon. In the study phase, at their own pace, participants read a list of sentences and observe a set of pictures. All these pictures describe events including an agent, patient, and theme. Half of the agents pictured are humans and the other half inanimate objects. This phase of the experiment was performed in an attempt to establish a \"recognition memory\" cover story. In the test phase, participants are asked to read a sentence expressing one of four conditions:\nAfter reading a sentence, the participant repeats it. Following this repetition, the participant describes the picture.\n\n\nConsider a trial wherein the participant is reading a dative double-object construction, \"George gave the boy the ball\". The subject is then significantly more likely to describe the a picture as \"X gave Y the Z\" instead of \"X gave the Z to Y\". This persistence in sentential form is structural priming.\n\nAt least four theories exist to explain structural priming: syntactic repetition; thematic congruency, derivation of subjects, and error-based learning.\nIn the Bock study, the sentences presented match their primes in syntactic structure. This is trivially true for any type-type prime. However, other structural priming patterns exist that complicate this explanation.\nA structure known as the unaccusative, which is unmarked morphologically in English, is capable of priming passive transitive sentences. The two constructions differ in syntax, but in both cases the subject takes a thematic, or at least non-agentive, thematic role.\nBecause the two constructions have this property in common, it has been suggested that such a thematic relational mapping is what allows structural priming.\nA second possibility for describing the presence of unaccusative-passive priming is their shared characteristic of having a derived subject. For instance, the passive subject is said by some scholars of syntax to be derived via movement, or \"smuggling,\" from the same position where it is generated in the active, to wit, the complement of the transitive verb. Though the derivation of the unaccusative does not seem to be an identical process, it is nevertheless assumed to be derived.\n\nError-based learning\n\nAnother explanation is that syntactic priming is a form of implicit learning supported by a prediction error-based learning mechanism. \n"}
{"id": "29253302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29253302", "title": "Suchilquitongo (archaeological site)", "text": "Suchilquitongo (archaeological site)\n\nSuchilquitongo is a Mesoamerican archaeological site located in Santiago Suchilquitongo municipality of San Pablo Huitzo in the Etla District of the Valles Centrales region of Oaxaca state in south-western Mexico, some 30 kilometers north of the Oaxaca City on Federal Highway 190.\n\nAccording to INAH, this archaeological site is locally called Cerro de la Campana, due to the popular belief that in one of its buildings or mounds a gold bell lies buried. Geographical charts assign the locality Cerro la Cantera since even today pink stone is extracted from quarry deposits. This quarry is of high quality and very useful to construct modern buildings.\n\nThe site is also known by \"Huijazoo\", which means \"war fortress\" in the Zapotec Language.\n\nAccording to the Municipalities Encyclopedia, Suchilquitongo name is a contraction of the Nahuatl word Xochiliquitonco, consisting of Xochitl, \"flower\", Quilitl (Sp), quelitón, quelite, and Tontli, \"diminutive\" of Co, \"in\"; means: \"in the flowered quelites\".\n\nAccording to studies conducted by archaeologist Enrique Mendez, this human settlement presumably developed approximately 1000 BCE., becoming part of a social nucleus already properly structured, with a correct social formation, territory and proper government forms, by the year 300 or 400 CE., thus forming the main seat of which was the high guijazoo lordship, with chosen buildings where guijazoo powers sat, forming a horseshoe figure, between the towns of San Pablo Huitzo in the north and Santiago Suchilquitongo to the south.\n\nThe latter, where on the “cerro de la campana” is located the famous Tomb number 5, which has been described as the Zapotec art “Sistine Chapel” which in 1985, was a source of controversy among authorities and people of Santiago Suchilquitongo and San Pablo Huitzo, who claimed ownership of the territory where this archaeological jewel is located, rather this dispute arises from a misunderstanding, when it was mentioned that Tomb 5 was found in cerro de la campana. Both Huitzo and Suchilquitongo, by coincidence, each have such a named hill within their respective territories. Suchilquitecos also call their own hill, “El Mogote”, or the Mound of the Old Lady. On the mound a fortress was discovered, decorated with serpents and a figure representing Quetzalcoatl, who was worshiped by Mesoamerican cultures.\n\nHowever, according to the Municipalities Encyclopedia for San Pablo Huitzo the name in Spanish means “Espinazo” (Ridge). Also Huexolotitlan means place where there are Guajolotes (Turkey). Huexolotl, Turkey; titlan place of. The Zapotec called this town Huijazoo, which means: Atalaya place of warriors.\n\nThe historical research of San Pablo Huitzo notes that the town has a history dating back to 1200 BCE. Approximately, history tells us that by the year 1400 CE., the place was known with the Huijazoo name and years later, when it was conquered by the Aztecs, the town was then named Gueixolotitlan and by the 1700s its name was again changed to what is known today.\n\nAs a result of archaeological explorations, constructive evidence, and human occupation evidence suggest that the oldest remains, within the Huitzo municipality, are those of Barrio del Rosario and the latest or more recent evidence is located within the territorial limits of the municipality of Santiago Suchilquitongo. The “Cueva de la Vieja” complex has not yet been explored. It is believed that the settlement evolution dates back to the earliest times of human development in the Oaxaca valleys, since ancient human evidence have been found from 2799 years ago in the known Barrio del Rosario, in Huitzo.\n\nLocal historians and some scholars link this site with the mythical Huijazo or Atalaya War where Zapotec defended their country against Mixtec invaders, fact that remains to be documented by the archaeological record.\n\nSo far it is not known the year in which this ceremonial center was abandoned.\n\nThe architectural complex is located on the summit of a hill, at a height of 150 meters above the floor of the Valley of Oaxaca, provides an exceptional viewing position, which on a clear day provides a view of up to forty kilometers, with clear air and accurate view.\n\nThe site is on a small artificially leveled crest, which allows foundation for eight buildings more than four meters high and with foundation bases of up to 25 m per side. At its apogee, the hill slopes were contained by rough walls which were coated with flattened stucco lime, giving the complex a fortress aspect. During the ascent to the Summit the remains of platforms and smaller buildings as well as steps are notorious; all of them are coated with lime stucco so it is considered that access should have been restricted to common people. Three of the partially restored buildings show simple walls superimposed with recessed stairways against its façade. One is highlighted by lateral stairways main access. Each of the eight buildings has on top, a single room with a short hallway in front. Due to recovered evidence, possibly priests, sorcerers and nobles used them to perform ceremonies, astronomical observations, and human sacrifices. It is deduced by the decorations that some of these buildings had on their facades that such acts perhaps were dedicated to the rain god Cocijo cult.\n\nFuture archaeological excavations may verify the hypothesis that each of the eight existing buildings contains internal tombs; this sector may be a necropolis.\n\nThe complex longitudinal axis was drawn from east to east, leaving the floors of the three existing plazas at different levels in relation to the sunken patio sunk or ballgame court. The level difference is evident between building 1 platform and the sunken patio floor, 6.50 meters, while the difference between building 3 patio and the floor of the Main Plaza is just 4.6 meters.\n\nAn important finding was made in 1985 with the discovery of tomb 5, located in building 1. Together with the Monte Alban 105 tomb, both contemporary, these could be considered as the most beautiful archaeology funeral samples in the Oaxaca region. This tomb is below the building at a depth of about six and a half meters, same elevation of the sunken patio floor in the Center of the complex.\n\nThe Tomb was built during the Zapotec culture classical period (650-900 CE)., hence it is about 1240 years old; some scholars believe that it was used at least twice after the Great Lord who originally ordered its construction for his own burial ceremony, known as “Señor 12 Monos (12 monkey) who probably ruled this land. Entrance is down nine steps leading to a hall, that at the time of its discovery was sealed with a large stone block. Two stones carved in bas-relief with the representation of richly dressed priests form the entry, on top is a large monolithic lintel holding a feline head with open jaws, a precious bird head sticks out the mouth.\n\nThis realistic representation is framed with abstract God Cocijo elements such as the headdress on the feline as ornament, and symbols of defended mountains, water and force winds to the sides of the head. Is noteworthy that the entire composition is embedded inside of a double scapular panel, which except in exceptional cases, only was used as a decorative element of the facades of monumental buildings of the classic period in the valleys of Oaxaca.\n\nPast the portico is the antechamber, which resembles a courtyard flanked by two niches with east and west lintels, communicating the main burial chamber by three short steps which are inserted on a pair of double scapular boards. Each of the existing room spaces has finely bas-reliefs carved jambs painted red, representing governing couples preceding the rule of “12 mono”. The antechamber walls are painted with frescos from the ceremony of burial of the original Tomb; ceremony attended by warriors, priests, whiners (plañideras), musicians, sorcerers and fantastic characters, as well as ballgame players, all of this with a polychromy handling never seen in similar funerary representation.\n\nThe access lintel to the main chamber is richly decorated with a character who wearing a helmet with God Cocijo attributes and the symbol of “bundle of years” that some wish to identify with the intertwined triangles that prehispanic astronomers used in their measurements. Both described lintels decorations were made in fine stone masonry coated with lime plaster. Red dominates all antechamber space, as representing death for the Zapotec.\n\nThe burial chamber is a masonry decorated rectangle with frescos from the Lords of the villages under the domination of “12 mono” at the time of his death and at least sixteen individuals dressed as ballgame players, some with the helmet in hand and preceded by a couple of warriors.\n\nAt the back of the camera is a fine bas-relief carved stonework piece, painted red representing the transmission charge from “12 Mono” parents; “11 movimiento” and lady “4 turquesa”, made in favor of his son and his wife then, lady “10 Mono”. The magnificent carving of face details of the represented characters is striking, as well as their clothing and furnishings used to sit, particularly those used by the main character, located in the far right of the top box of the tombstone.\n\nThe archaeological site of the Cerro de la Campana lacks public services at the time. In the Centre of the village of Santiago Suchilquitongo, visitors can visit the Community Museum that has a replica of 5 Tomb, as well as some of the pieces found in the interior.\n\nTomb 5 is closed to the public due to the fragile nature of the paintings contained within. It can be entered only enter with INAH permission.\n\nThe archaeological site lacks public services. In the Centre of the village of Santiago Suchilquitongo, is a Community Museum that has a replica of Tomb 5, as well as some of the pieces found in its interior. In San Pablo Huitzo, is another small museum with prehispanic items and colonial religious art.\n\nGeorge DeLange is an astronomer and has been one for over thirty five years. He noticed one unusual alignment, the entire plan of this city seems to be on a very different alignment than most of the cities in Mesoamerica. It seems to be aligned on a SE to NW alignment. He suspects that alignment may have been to the solstices rather than to equinox, as most of the Mesoamerican cities show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92494", "title": "The King in Yellow", "text": "The King in Yellow\n\nThe King in Yellow is a book of short stories by American writer Robert W. Chambers, first published by F. Tennyson Neely in 1895. The book is named after a play with the same title which recurs as a motif through some of the stories. The first half of the book features highly esteemed weird stories, and the book has been described by critics such as E. F. Bleiler, S. T. Joshi and T. E. D. Klein as a classic in the field of the supernatural. There are ten stories, the first four of which (\"The Repairer of Reputations\", \"The Mask\", \"In the Court of the Dragon\", and \"The Yellow Sign\") mention \"The King in Yellow\", a forbidden play which induces despair or madness in those who read it. \"The Yellow Sign\" inspired a film of the same name released in 2001.\n\nThe British first edition was published by Chatto & Windus in 1895 (316 pages).\n\nThe first four stories are loosely connected by three main devices:\n\n\nThese stories are macabre in tone, centering, in keeping with the other tales, on characters that are often artists or decadents, inhabitants of the \"demi-monde\".\n\nThe first and fourth stories, \"The Repairer of Reputations\" and \"The Yellow Sign\", are set in an imagined future 1920s America, whereas the second and third stories, \"The Mask\" and \"In the Court of the Dragon\", are set in Paris. These stories are haunted by the theme: \"Have you found the Yellow Sign?\"\n\nThe weird and macabre character gradually fades away during the remaining stories, and the last three are written in the romantic fiction style common to Chambers' later work. They are all linked to the preceding stories by their Parisian setting and their artistic protagonists.\n\nThe stories in the book are:\n\n\nThe fictional play \"The King in Yellow,\" has at least two acts and at least three characters: Cassilda, Camilla and \"The Stranger\", who may or may not be the title character.\n\nChambers' story collection excerpts some sections from the play to introduce the book as a whole, or individual stories. For example, \"Cassilda's Song\" comes from Act 1, Scene 2 of the play:\n\nThe short story \"The Mask\" is introduced by an excerpt from Act 1, Scene 2d:\n\nIt is also stated, in \"The Repairer of Reputations\", that the final moment of the first act involves the character of Cassilda on the streets, screaming in a horrified fashion, \"Not upon us, oh, king! Not upon us!\"\n\nAll of the excerpts come from Act I. The stories describe Act I as quite ordinary, but reading Act II drives the reader mad with the \"irresistible\" revealed truths. \"The very banality and innocence of the first act only allowed the blow to fall afterward with more awful effect.\" Even seeing the first page of the second act is enough to draw the reader in: \"If I had not caught a glimpse of the opening words in the second act I should never have finished it [...]\" (\"The Repairer of Reputations\").\n\nChambers usually gives only scattered hints of the contents of the full play, as in this extract from \"The Repairer of Reputations\":\nHe mentioned the establishment of the Dynasty in Carcosa, the lakes which connected Hastur, Aldebaran and the mystery of the Hyades. He spoke of Cassilda and Camilla, and sounded the cloudy depths of Demhe, and the Lake of Hali. \"The scolloped tatters of the King in Yellow must hide Yhtill forever,\" he muttered, but I do not believe Vance heard him. Then by degrees he led Vance along the ramifications of the Imperial family, to Uoht and Thale, from Naotalba and Phantom of Truth, to Aldones, and then tossing aside his manuscript and notes, he began the wonderful story of the Last King.\nA similar passage occurs in \"The Yellow Sign\", in which two protagonists have read \"The King in Yellow\":\nNight fell and the hours dragged on, but still we murmured to each other of the King and the Pallid Mask, and midnight sounded from the misty spires in the fog-wrapped city. We spoke of Hastur and of Cassilda, while outside the fog rolled against the blank window-panes as the cloud waves roll and break on the shores of Hali.\nChambers borrowed the names Carcosa, Hali and Hastur from Ambrose Bierce: specifically, his short stories \"An Inhabitant of Carcosa\" and \"Haïta the Shepherd\". There is no strong indication that Chambers was influenced beyond liking the names. For example, Hastur is a god of shepherds in \"Haïta the Shepherd\", but is implicitly a location in \"The Repairer of Reputations\", listed alongside the Hyades and Aldebaran.\n\nBrian Stableford pointed out that the story \"The Demoiselle d'Ys\" was influenced by the stories of Théophile Gautier, such as \"Arria Marcella\" (1852); both Gautier and Chambers' stories feature a love affair enabled by a supernatural time slip. The name Jeanne d'Ys is also a homophone for the word jaundice and continues the symbolism of The King in Yellow.\n\nIn Raymond Chandler's 1938 detective story, also titled \"The King in Yellow\", the protagonist says \"The King in Yellow. I read a book by that title once.\"\n\nThe first season of HBO's \"True Detective\" television series revolves around a string of crimes committed by the elusive \"Yellow King\" with Carcosa also being mentioned on numerous occasions. Black stars are also prominent in reference and imagery during the series.\n\nSCP Foundation entry SCP-701, The Hanged King, is possibly a reference to this. The titular play being one that causes violence and insanity among both the cast and audience members.\n\nH. P. Lovecraft read \"The King in Yellow\" in early 1927\nand included passing references to various things and places from the book—such as the Lake of Hali and the Yellow Sign — in \"The Whisperer in Darkness\" (1931),\none of his main Cthulhu Mythos stories. Lovecraft borrowed Chambers' method of only vaguely referring to supernatural events, entities, and places, thereby allowing his readers to imagine the horror for themselves. The play \"The King in Yellow\" effectively became another piece of occult literature in the Cthulhu Mythos alongside the \"Necronomicon\" and others.\n\nIn the story, Lovecraft linked the Yellow Sign to Hastur, but from his brief (and only) mention it is not clear what Lovecraft meant Hastur to be. August Derleth developed Hastur into a Great Old One in his controversial reworking of Lovecraft's universe, elaborating on this connection in his own mythos stories. In the writings of Derleth and a few other latter-day Cthulhu Mythos authors, the King in Yellow is an Avatar of Hastur, so named because of his appearance as a thin, floating man covered in tattered yellow robes.\n\nIn Lovecraft's cycle of horror sonnets, \"Fungi from Yuggoth\", sonnet XXVII \"The Elder Pharos\" mentions the last Elder One who lives alone talking to chaos via drums: \"The Thing, they whisper, wears a silken mask of yellow, whose queer folds appear to hide a face not of this earth...\". This thing with a silken mask of yellow also features in \"The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath\". \n\nIn the \"Call of Cthulhu\" roleplaying game published by Chaosium, the King in Yellow is an avatar of Hastur who uses his eponymous play to spread insanity among humans. He is described as a hunched figure clad in tattered, yellow rags, who wears a smooth and featureless \"Pallid Mask\". Removing the mask is a sanity-shattering experience; the King's face is described as \"inhuman eyes in a suppurating sea of stubby maggot-like mouths; liquescent flesh, tumorous and gelid, floating and reforming\".\n\nAlthough none of the characters in Chambers' book describe the plot of the play, Kevin Ross fabricated a plot for the play within the \"Call of Cthulhu\" mythos.\n\n\"The Secret World\", a Lovecraft-inspired massively multiplayer online role-playing game, quotes Cassilda's Song and other elements from \"The King in Yellow\" during a quest.\n\nThe theft of a supposed manuscript of the play \"The King in Yellow\" from the British Library forms a major plot element of Charles Stross's Lovecraft-inspired book \"The Annihilation Score\".\n\nIn Alan Moore's comic series \"Providence\", as well as its sequel \"Neonomicon\", Moore re-imagines the Lovecraftian mythos while referencing and borrowing heavily from \"The King in Yellow\". The book is referenced by name throughout \"Providence\", as well as referencing a fictional variation \"Sous Le Monde\", French for \"Under the World.\" In both \"Providence\" and its sequel, a recurring character named Johnny Carcosa appears as an avatar/speaker for a Lovecraftian entity, possibly Nyarlathotep or Azathoth.\n\nGame designer Robin D. Laws, having written a collection of Chamber-inspired stories entitled \"New Tales of the Yellow Sign\", has converted the story \"Repairer of Reputations\" for \"Trail of Cthulhu\". He is currently writing a Yellow King Roleplaying Game, including crossover content for the Cthulhu Mythos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46218143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46218143", "title": "Time Paradox", "text": "Time Paradox\n\nTime Paradox (not to be confused with the Sharp X1 title \"Timeparadox\") is a point-and-click adventure game developed and released by Flair Software for the PC DOS in 1996 only in Europe.\n\nA futuristic agent named Kay is sent on a mission to stop the evil Morgana Le Fay. She first travels back in time to \"the time of dinosaurs and cavemen\" (sic), and then jumps to the medieval era in order to find and rescue the wizard Merlin from Morgana's castle and eventually defeat the sorceress.\n\n\"Time Paradox\" has been in development for several years, having been in first publicly shown in 1993. The game was originally supposed to be released as \"Genesis\" already in the first half of 1994 and to be a FMV based, featuring digitized graphics. Besides the PC version, the developers also planned to create the Amiga computer and CD32 versions.\n\nThe game was poorly received by gaming press upon its release, including receiving one star out of five in Germany's \"PC Player\". It also got low review scores in Polish magazines \"Gambler\" (48%) and \"Secret Service\" (2/10). Retrospectively, Adventure-Archiv rated it a 57% in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228204", "title": "Town Musicians of Bremen", "text": "Town Musicians of Bremen\n\nThe \"Town Musicians of Bremen\" () is a popular fairy tale retrieved and recorded by the Brothers Grimm. It was first published in Grimms' Fairy Tales in 1819. It tells the story of four aging domestic animals, who after a lifetime of hard work are neglected and mistreated by their former masters. Eventually, they decide to run away and become town musicians in the city of Bremen. Contrary to the story's title the characters never arrive in Bremen, as they succeed in tricking and scaring off a band of robbers, capturing their spoils, and moving into their house. According to the Aarne–Thompson classification system, the story qualifies as a \"Type 130\" folktale (\"Outcast animals find a new home\").\n\nIn the story, a donkey, a dog, a cat, and a rooster (or hen), all past their prime years in life and usefulness on their respective farms, were soon to be discarded or mistreated by their masters. One by one, they leave their homes and set out together. They decide to go to Bremen, known for its freedom, to live without owners and become musicians there (\"Something better than death we can find anywhere\").\n\nOn the way to Bremen, they see a lighted cottage; they look inside and see four robbers enjoying their ill-gotten gains. Standing on each other's backs, they decide to scare the robbers away by making a din; the men run for their lives, not knowing what the strange sound is. The animals take possession of the house, eat a good meal, and settle in for the evening.\n\nLater that night, the robbers return and send one of their members in to investigate. He sees the Cat's eyes shining in the darkness and the robber thinks he is seeing the coals of the fire. He reaches over to light his candle. Things happen in quick succession; the Cat scratches his face with her claws, the Dog bites him on the leg, the Donkey kicks him with his hooves, and the Rooster crows and chases him out the door, screaming. He tells his companions that he was beset by a horrible witch who scratched him with her long fingernails (the Cat), an man with a knife (the Dog), a black monster who had hit him with a club (the Donkey), and worst of all, the judge who screamed from the rooftop (the Rooster). The robbers abandon the cottage to the strange creatures who have taken it, where the animals live happily for the rest of their days.\n\nIn the original version of this story, which dates from the twelfth century, the robbers are a bear, lion, and wolf, all animals featured in heraldric devices. When the donkey and his friends arrive in Bremen, the townsfolk applaud them for having rid the district of the terrible beasts. An alternate version involves the animals' master(s) being deprived of his livelihood (because the thieves stole his money and/or destroyed his farm or mill) and having to send his animals away, unable to take care of them any further. After the animals dispatch the thieves, they take the ill-gotten gains back to their master so he can rebuild. Other versions involve at least one wild, non-livestock animal, such as a lizard, helping the domestic animals out in dispatching the thieves.\n\nThe tale has been retold through animated pictures, motion pictures (often musicals), theatre plays and operas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome of the best known adaptations are:\n"}
{"id": "9233394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9233394", "title": "UFO sightings in the United States", "text": "UFO sightings in the United States\n\nThis is a list of alleged UFO sightings in the United States.\n\n\n22. ^ Donnelly, Grace. “Pilots from American Airlines and Learjet Spotted a UFO over Arizona in February.” Pilots from American Airlines and Learjet Spotted a UFO over Arizona in February, Fortune, 29 Mar. 2018, fortune.com/2018/03/29/american-airlines-pilots-ufo/.\n"}
{"id": "1985629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985629", "title": "Vartan Gregorian", "text": "Vartan Gregorian\n\nVartan Gregorian (; , born April 8, 1934) is an Iranian-born Armenian-American academic, serving as the president of Carnegie Corporation of New York.\n\nGregorian came to the United States in 1956 as a freshman, attending Stanford University, where he completed his B.A., with honors, in two years. After receiving his dual doctorates in history and humanities from Stanford in 1964, Gregorian served on the faculties of several American universities. He taught European and Middle Eastern history at San Francisco State College, the University of California at Los Angeles, and the University of Texas at Austin. In 1972 he joined the University of Pennsylvania faculty and was appointed Tarzian Professor of History and professor of South Asian history. He was founding dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania in 1974 and four years later became its twenty-third provost until 1981. From 1981 to 1989, Gregorian served as president of The New York Public Library, a post he would hold for eight years.\n\nIn 1988, he was chosen to become president of Brown University, where he served for the next nine years. In 1997, he was appointed president of Carnegie Corporation of New York, the philanthropic foundation created by Andrew Carnegie in 1911. He currently serves as a trustee of the Aga Khan Museum, the Library of Alexandria, The Hunter Foundation, the National September 11 Memorial and Museum at the World Trade Center, The American Academy in Berlin, and the Patti and Everett B. Biurch Foundation.\n\nIn 1986, Gregorian was awarded the Ellis Island Medal of Honor and in 1989 the American Academy of Arts and Letters Award for Distinguished Service to the Arts. In 1998, President Clinton awarded him the National Humanities Medal. In 2004, President George W. Bush awarded him the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civil award. In 2009, President Barack Obama appointed him to serve on the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. In addition, Gregorian has received the Council on Foundations Distinguished Service Award, 2013; the Aspen Institute's Henry Crown Leadership Award, 2010; the Africa-America Institute Award for Leadership in Higher Education Philanthropy, 2009; and has been honored by various other cultural and professional associations, including the Armenian Cultural Foundation, the Urban League, the League of Women Voters, the Players Club, PEN-American Center, Literacy Volunteers of New York, the American Institute of Architects, the Charles A. Dana Foundation, and the Elysium Between Two Continents. He has been honored by the city and state of New York, the states of Massachusetts, Texas, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island, and the cities of Fresno, Austin, Providence and San Francisco and was named a Living Landmark of the City of New York, where he currently resides.\n\nIn March 2015, Vartan Gregorian, together with two other philanthropists of Armenian descent, Noubar Afeyan and Ruben Vardanyan, launched a new humanitarian effort called 100 Lives.\n\nGregorian was born in an Armenian-Christian community in Tabriz, Iran, to Samuel Gregorian and Shooshanik Mirzaian. When Gregorian was 6 years old, his mother, then 26, died of pneumonia. His father, who worked for the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company in Abadan, was away from home much of the time, and hence Gregorian and his younger sister Ojik were raised by Voski Mirzaian, his maternal grandmother.\n\nGregorian attended elementary school in Iran. In his autobiography, in discussing the events that led to his attending high school in Lebanon, Gregorian refers to several \"generous strangers\" who helped to make this transformative change in his life possible along with his subsequent move to the United States. First, in 1948, Edgar Maloyan, the French Armenian vice-consul in Tabriz at the time, suggested to Gregorian that he ought to go to Beirut, Lebanon to continue his education and provided him with three letters of introduction: one to the head of the Lebanese Internal Security Agency, one to the Collège Arménien, the lycée that admitted him as a student, and one to a hotel where he could stay. Gregorian also did chores for another individual in Tabriz, an optometrist named Hrayr Stepanian, who eventually helped Gregorian obtain his passport to get to Lebanon:\n\nWhat Gregorian and his benefactors had not thoroughly planned for was his daily expenses, so after arriving in Beirut, he was confronted with the problem of how to provide for his meals and long-term housing. Once again, he received help: the Armenian Red Cross Society arranged to provide Gregorian with some of his meals for a monthly cost of U.S. $6.15 and another helpful patron arranged for his lodging. With his circumstances eased somewhat, Gregorian learned French and completed his secondary education at the Collège Arménien in Beirut, where, while a student, he became the assistant to Simon Vratzian, the last prime minister of the pre-Soviet Republic of Armenia and then director of the Collège. Vratzian served as Gregorian's mentor and protector, providing him with the advice and assistance that helped Gregorian make arrangements to attend a university in the United States. In 1955, Gregorian, with the assistance of his English teacher, applied to only two universities (the University of California, Berkeley, and Stanford University) and was admitted by both. Stanford's acceptance arrived by airmail months before Berkeley's did by surface mail, at which point Gregorian had already enrolled at Stanford.\n\nGregorian was twenty-two when he began his undergraduate education at Stanford in 1956. There, Wayne S. Vucinich, who taught the history of the Balkans, Eastern Europe, Byzantium and the Ottoman Empire, became his mentor and advised Gregorian to study history. He completed his B.A. with honors in two years and finished the Humanities Honors program with distinction. His senior thesis for the Humanities Honors Program was on \"Toynbee and Islam.\" In 1958 he was accepted as a Ph.D. candidate in history as well as in the graduate Humanities Program and became a research and teaching assistant to Professor Vucinich. The department awarded him its Wilbur Fellowship. While a student at Stanford, he again received hospitality from members of the Armenian community who were strangers to him. He explains how this consistent benevolence reaffirmed his faith in the Armenian diaspora community and diaspora communities in general:\n\nHe received his PhD in history and humanities from Stanford in 1964, writing a dissertation entitled \"Traditionalism and Modernism in Islam.\" The topic of his dissertation was related to an ongoing research project that he began in 1961, after receiving a Ford Foundation Foreign Area Training Fellowship, which took him to England, France, Lebanon, Pakistan, Afghanistan and India. These experiences and his related research refocused his thesis on Afghanistan and formed the basis for his first book, \"The Emergence of Modern Afghanistan: Politics of Reform and Modernization, 1840–1946\" (1969, 2013, Stanford University Press).\n\nIn 1962, Gregorian began teaching European and Middle Eastern history at San Francisco State College (now San Francisco State University). He left San Francisco State in 1968 and for a brief stint served as an associate professor at UCLA. That same year he joined the faculty of the University of Texas at Austin, where he remained until 1972. He was promoted to full professorship in the Department of History and served as the Director of Special Programs in the College of Arts and Sciences from 1969 to 1971. Gregorian resigned in protest the Board of Trustees decision to increase student enrollment and expand the university.\n\nIn 1972, he accepted the position of Tarzian Professor of Armenian and Caucasian History and Professor of South Asian history at the University of Pennsylvania, an endowed professorship that allowed him to teach Armenian, South Asian, and European intellectual history. In 1974, Gregorian was named Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania, the first person to hold this position. In 1978, he became Provost, chief academic officer of the university.\n\nIn 1980, Gregorian was offered the chancellorship at UC Berkeley, but declined because he had been Provost at Penn for only two years and did not feel it was an appropriate time to leave his post. In 1981, Gregorian resigned as Provost. Three years later, the Penn Board of Trustees endowed a professorship and several fellowships in Gregorian's name and awarded him an honorary degree in recognition of his roles as the university's founding Dean of Arts and Sciences and Provost.\n\nFollowing his stay at Penn, Gregorian found work outside the university walls. The New York Public Library had suffered budget cuts in the 1970s and, facing a vacancy in its presidency, needed a candidate who could raise money and revitalize the library. After a period of unsuccessful searching, Gregorian was approached. Then library board chairman Andrew Heiskell said of Gregorian: \"Out of nowhere, a new candidate appeared. Instinctively I knew he was it.\"\n\nGregorian arrived in 1981, facing deficits and a deteriorating architecture. Eight years later, the operation budget had doubled, four hundred new employees were hired, the buildings were cleaned and restored, and $327 million had been raised, including some $70 million in gifts-in-kind from individual collectors and benefactors. Local philanthropists and city leaders agreed that Gregorian restored the NYPL into a cultural landmark. He left the library in 1989, \"eager to return to the academic world.\"\n\nVartan Gregorian became president of Brown in 1989. During his tenure, he instituted the President's Lecture Series, which brought prominent scholars, leaders, and authors to campus. He presided over the building of a residence quadrangle that now bears his name, and taught senior seminars. His last seminar centered on Alexis de Tocqueville's \"Democracy in America\". Each year, he also served as the adviser for nine students. Gregorian led a five-year capital campaign called the Campaign for the Rising Generation, which at the time was the most ambitious capital campaign, not only in Brown's history, but of the state of Rhode Island, as well. The campaign raised some $534 million. By the end of his presidency, Brown's endowment had grown by about 260 percent, passing the $1 billion mark from just under $400 million. Also during his tenure, some 250 general studies courses were established. He received the Graduate Student Council's first endowed Wilson-Deblois Award and the faculty's Rosenberger Medal.\n\nPresident Gregorian's tenure was marked by increased international prominence for Brown and a significant rise in demand for admission. Equally, the student body grew more diverse than ever. Gregorian informed the Brown community of his resignation on January 7, 1997, and he left Brown in September of that year to assume leadership of Carnegie Corporation of New York. He made and kept a promise to attend the commencement ceremony and shake hands with all undergraduate students who had matriculated during his presidency.\n\nVartan Gregorian became the twelfth president of Carnegie Corporation of New York in 1997. Notably, Gregorian is the only naturalized American to head the Corporation and the first chief executive since 1923 to be appointed from outside. When he joined the Corporation, taking on the challenge of heading a philanthropic institution, Gregorian said, \"As I had led institutions that were dependent on philanthropy, it was intriguing to enter the field 'from the other side,' especially at a time when interest in philanthropy was blossoming. The challenge of philanthropy is how to contribute to the public good while at the same time assist both the American public and policymakers in understanding the power of philanthropy to effect positive change both in our nation and abroad.\"\n\nCarnegie Corporation is a grantmaking foundation, created by Andrew Carnegie in 1911 with a mandate to support efforts dedicated to \"the advancement and diffusion of knowledge and understanding.\" Towards that end, in over a century of work, Carnegie Corporation of New York has made grants totaling over $2 billion—more than $1 billion alone in the ten years ended September 30, 2013. Today, under Gregorian's leadership, the foundation's work incorporates Andrew Carnegie's mandate through an affirmation of its historic role as an education foundation but also honors Andrew Carnegie's passion for international peace and the health of American democracy. While Mr. Carnegie's primary aim was to benefit the people of the United States, he later determined to use a portion of the funds for members of the British overseas Commonwealth. Currently, this area of Corporation grantmaking focuses on selected countries in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\n\nPresident George H. W. Bush appointed Gregorian to the Fulbright Commission. President Bill Clinton awarded Dr. Gregorian the National Humanities Medal. President George W. Bush later awarded Dr. Gregorian the Presidential Medal of Freedom. On June 17, 2009, The White House announced that President Barack Obama had appointed Gregorian to the President's Commission on White House Fellowships.\nGregorian has also been decorated by the French, Italian, Austrian and Portuguese governments.\n\nGregorian is also the recipient of the Ellis Island Medal of Honor and ,in 1989. the American Academy of Arts and Letters Award for Distinguished Service to the Arts. In 2010, he received the Aspen Institute's Henry Crown Leadership Award. Further, Gregorian has received the Council on Foundations Distinguished Service Award, 2013 and the Africa-America Institute Award for Leadership in Higher Education Philanthropy, 2009. He has been honored by various cultural and professional associations, including the Urban League, the League of Women Voters, the Players Club, PEN-American Center, Literacy Volunteers of New York, the American Institute of Architects and the Charles A. Dana Foundation. He has been honored by the states of New York, Massachusetts, Texas, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island, and the cities of Fresno, Austin, New York, Providence and San Francisco.\n\nHe is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society. In 1969, he received the Danforth Foundation's E.H. Harbison Distinguished Teaching Award, and in 1971 received the University of Texas' Cactus Teaching Excellence Award.\n\nIn 2005, Gregorian received the S. Roger Horchow Award for Greatest Public Service by a Private Citizen, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards Foundation.\n\nThe Vartan Gregorian Elementary School in the Fox Point neighborhood of Providence, Rhode Island, is named for Gregorian.\n\nVartan Gregorian has received more than 70 honorary degrees. Below is a partial list.\nGregorian has three sons, Vahé, Raffi, and Dareh. He was married to Clare Russell Gregorian from 1960 until her death in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1671913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1671913", "title": "Yankee ingenuity", "text": "Yankee ingenuity\n\nYankee ingenuity is a stereotype of inventiveness, technical solutions to practical problems, \"know-how,\" self-reliance and individual enterprise associated with the Yankees, who originated in New England and developed much of the industrial revolution in the United States after 1800. The stereotype first appeared in the 19th century. As Mitchell Wilson notes, \"Yankee ingenuity and Yankee git-up-and-go did not exist in colonial days.\"\n\nYankee ingenuity characterizes an attitude of make-do with materials on hand. It is inventive improvisation, adaptation and overcoming of shortages of materials.\n\nThe term 'Yankee ingenuity' originated from the construction of the Erie Canal across rural upstate New York. Work began in 1817. The canal opened October 26, 1825.\n\nThe term was common worldwide in the wake of World War II, as American forces employed engineering solutions to military problems. Doug Stewart notes of the jeep: \"the spartan, cramped, and unstintingly functional jeep became the ubiquitous World War II four-wheeled personification of Yankee ingenuity and cocky, can-do determination.\" Today it refers broadly to a typically American pragmatic approach to problem solving instead of traditional methods.\n\nIn the original plan for cutting the canal, owners of the land to be crossed were required to be involved in a complicated process involving cooperation with individuals who didn't know the lay of the land and who were often not present. In this wild, undeveloped place, legal responsibilities for construction were imposed upon involved property owners. Citified strangers enforced the contract. Fines were frequently levied. There was a timetable that seemed unbelievably inadequate. In the first year of construction came the realization: The contractors had a total mess on their hands. Very little had been accomplished. The land was far more rugged than had been realized. Work stopped for the winter.\n\nAs soon as work could begin in the spring the property owners took matters into their own hands. Funding had been appropriated. Instead of waiting for the engineers and work crews to arrive from Albany, the farmers put their animals and sons to work. If there was an unmovable object, they plowed around it. They went around, not through, hills and precipices, always returning to the general routing. Changing the course of the canal was a good idea to the pragmatists who knew the land. The work was done with zeal, for all citizens realized the canal would bring great prosperity to the area. Neighbors whose land was not crossed came to help. Hardscrabble land would become valuable. Opportunities to make money would be unlimited.\n\nIt was not unusual for a government work crew to arrive, tired from the journey, to find a completed section filling with water from the spring runoff. Of course, as work progressed many reports were filed by many people. In one report one individual described the work of the maverick farmers as \"Yankee ingenuity\". The coinage went into immediate, widespread use as it captured so well the reality of life in the rural areas. The farmers were admired; elevated as fine examples of how Americans would cooperate with each other but brook no interference from each other either.\n\n"}
{"id": "15081436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15081436", "title": "Édouard Dulaurier", "text": "Édouard Dulaurier\n\nJean Paul Louis François Édouard Leuge-Dulaurier (29 January 1807 – 21 December 1881) was a French Orientalist, Armenian studies scholar and Egyptologist.\n\nDulaurier was born in Toulouse. He succeeded Paul Émile Levaillant de Florival, on the former's death in 1862, as professor of the Armenian language at the Ecole spéciale des Langues orientales. He also established the chair for the Malay language. He was also a member of the Institut de France (Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres). He died in Meudon.\n\nDulaurier was a major contributor to the \"Recueil des historiens des croisades\", for the part related to Armenian sources which he edited and translated into French. This work is still considered a major source of the period and is available online.\n\n\n"}
