{"id": "53360473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53360473", "title": "Adah Jenkins", "text": "Adah Jenkins\n\nAdah Louise Killion Jenkins (April 23, 1901 – May 8, 1973) was a Civil rights activist, musician, and a music critic for the Afro-American newspaper. Born and raised in Baltimore, Maryland, Jenkins attended the Teachers Training College, now Coppin State University. Initially teaching in Baltimore City Public Schools, where she became the first Black supervisor of music, Jenkins became a professor of music at Morgan State University. During the Civil Rights Movement, Jenkins was involved with many activists groups; she helped to organize the Baltimore Interracial Fellowship and she was a charter member of the Baltimore chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality. She was also a key organizer and picketer in the organized protests to integrate Ford's Theater in Baltimore. Jenkins served as music critic for the Afro-American for 23 years until her death at the age of 72 on May 8, 1973.\n"}
{"id": "45456184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45456184", "title": "Alsager Hay Hill", "text": "Alsager Hay Hill\n\nAlsager Hay Hill (1 October 1839 – 2 August 1906) was an English social reformer active during the late 19th century, influential on poor law reform and employment issues. He founded one of the first labour exchanges and a newspaper, \"Labour News\" that is still published today, albeit under a new title: \"Construction News\".\n\nHill was born at Gressenhall Hall in Norfolk, the second son in a family of five sons and six daughters of John David Hay Hill, lord of the manor of Gressenhall, and Margaret (second daughter of the hop merchant and former MP for Cashel, Ebenezer John Collett).\n\nHill was educated at Brighton College (1850–54) and at Cheltenham College (1854–57). In 1857 he obtained an exhibition at Caius College, Cambridge, migrating as scholar to Trinity Hall, where he graduated LLB in 1862. Becoming a student of the Inner Temple in October 1860, he was called to the bar in January 1864.\n\nHe joined the south-eastern circuit, but soon devoted his energies to journalism and to literature, interesting himself especially in poor law and labour questions, and working as almoner to the Society for the Relief of Distress in the East of London. In letters to the press during 1868 Hill called attention to weaknesses in the poor laws, and urged a more scientific classification of paupers (\"The Times\", 9 January 1868). His pamphlet on \"Our Unemployed,\" prepared for the National Association for the Promotion of Social Science, and published in 1867, was one of the first to call public attention to the problem of unemployment, and to suggest a national system of labour registration.\n\nOther pamphlets followed: \"Lancashire Labour and the London Poor\" (1871), \"Impediments to the Circulation of Labour, with a Few Suggestions for their Removal\" (1873), \"The Unemployed in Great Cities, with Suggestions for the Better Organisation of Labourers\" (1877), and \"Vagrancy\" in 1881.\n\nHill was also a supporter of the role of women in public life, supporting campaigns to elect prominent women such as Maria Grey and Elizabeth Garrett Anderson to the London School Board in 1870, recognising the potential benefits of education on relieving poverty.\n\nHill was a pioneer of the system of labour exchanges in England, and in 1871 established in Greek Street, Soho, 'The Employment Inquiry Office and Labour Registry,' which was subsequently transferred to 15 Russell Street, Covent Garden, as the 'Central Labour Exchange, Employment, Emigration, and Industrial Intelligence Office.' There as director Hill advised applicants for assistance, and founded and edited \"Labour News\" to improve communication between masters and men seeking work. Hill had agents and correspondents in the chief industrial centres, who sent notes on the condition of the local labour markets (Hill's venture, which was not profitable, impaired his health; on his retirement a committee of working men managed the paper, and contributed from the profits to Hill's maintenance). The publication, founded in 1871, survived to become \"Construction and Labour News\" (1963) and then, in April 1964, \"Construction News\".\n\nFrom 1877 onwards Hill also edited \"The Industrial Handbook\" and superintended the publication in 1881 of \"The Industrial Index to London,\" by H. Llewelyn Williams, as well as \"Business Aspects of Ladies' Work\". He also edited (1870–71) a series of penny \"Statutes for the People\", intended to give the labouring class cheap legal advice (legal aid). He was prominent, from its foundation in 1869, in the work of the Charity Organisation Society, as a 1914 history of the Society made clear:\n\nMr. Alsager Hay Hill joined the Society in its first year. He was one of its first Hon. Secretaries, and the life and soul of Council meetings in the early days of struggle. A man of rare natural wit, something of a poet, and the brightest of companions, he threw himself eagerly into the Society's work, and more particularly devoted his time and energy to an attempt to deal with the problems of unemployment. His 'Labour News' of thirty years ago anticipated the Labour Exchanges of today.\n\nHill was honorary secretary of the council until July 1870, and remained an active member of the council until 1880. Hill also supported the Working Men's Club and Institute Union.\n\nA published writer of poetry and verse throughout his life, Hill was praised in \"The Spectator\":\n\nFor besides writing poetry, Mr. Alsager Hill is a well-known philanthropist, and [when] his experience and his sympathies meet, he produces some telling verses. Of these, \"Lilies in the City,\" \"Mrs. Grundy's Sunday,\" and \"The Great God Gin,\" are good examples. ...\n\nAmong flowers and books also Mr. Hill can take his ease, and forgets, as his preface tells us, that there are newspapers to edit and philanthropy to organise.\n\nHill suffered from ill health and poverty in his later years, living in retirement at Boston, Lincolnshire. He died there unmarried on 2 August 1906, and was buried at Gressenhall.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "11143887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11143887", "title": "Athalie Richardson Irvine Clarke Prize", "text": "Athalie Richardson Irvine Clarke Prize\n\nThe Athalie Richardson Irvine Clarke Prize, or “Clarke Prize”, is awarded annually by the National Water Research Institute (NWRI) of Fountain Valley, California. It consists of a medallion and $50,000 award for demonstrated excellence in the fields of water science and technology. It recognizes the highest contributions by an individual engaged in the discovery, development, improvement, or understanding of the issues associated with water quality, quantity, technology, or public policy.\n\nThe Clarke Prize was established by NWRI in 1993 in honor of the late Athalie Richardson Irvine Clarke, co-founder of NWRI. The Prize was established in collaboration with Joan Irvine Smith, co-founder of NWRI and the daughter of Mrs. Clarke.\nClarke Prize Laureates are active researchers and/or practitioners who demonstrate excellence through their continuous contributions to the body of knowledge related to protecting, maintaining, treating, and reclaiming water resources. The Clarke Prize is one of only a dozen water prizes awarded worldwide and has been distinguished by the International Congress of Distinguished Awards as one of the most prestigious awards in the world.\n\nNominations for the Clarke Prize, as well as related credentials and letters of recommendation, must be received by April 1 of each year. The Clarke Prize recipient is selected by the Clarke Prize Executive Committee.\nThe Clarke Prize is awarded annually at the Clarke Prize Lecture and Award Ceremony. The black tie dinner includes a presentation of the medallion and the award of the $50,000 prize by members of the Joan Irvine Smith and Athalie R. Clarke Foundation. As part of the award ceremony, the recipient presents the annual Clarke Prize Lecture, which gives the recipient an opportunity to promote his or her area of expertise and to educate the audience on its importance and impact in the field of water research and technology.\nThe National Water Research Institute (NWRI), a 501c3 nonprofit, was founded by a group of Southern California water agencies in collaboration with the Joan Irvine Smith and Athalie R. Clarke Foundation. Since 1991, NWRI has served as an independent industry expert in water science, technology, and public policy. NWRI’s many leading-edge projects and activities have advanced the worldwide understanding in areas such as treatment technologies, potable reuse, salinity and nutrient management, and other factors that influence the quality and availability of water supplies and resources.\n\nMajor activities include:\n\n\"Nothing is more important than the careful stewardship and development of our water resources\", said Athalie Richardson Irvine Clarke, co-founder of NWRI.\n\nClarke (1903 - 1993) married James Irvine, Jr., in 1929, and along with her daughter, Joan Irvine Smith, ran the Irvine Ranch, one of California’s most diverse and productive farms. Both Clarke and her daughter encouraged The Irvine Company to adopt a master plan for what would become the city of Irvine. She also encouraged The Irvine Company and the University of California system to establish the University of California, Irvine, on a portion of the vast Irvine Ranch. She and her daughter also founded the Irvine Museum, which is dedicated to California Impressionism. Clarke knew several of the \"plein-air\" painters of her generation personally, and the museum's exhibits reflect the California landscape she cherished.\n\nClarke recognized the vital importance of water and strongly promoted better water science and technology. In 1991, Clarke co-founded NWRI along with her daughter Joan Irvine Smith. In honor of Clarke's vision, NWRI established the Clarke Prize in 1993 to recognize outstanding individuals who have implemented better water science research and technology.\n\nThe great-granddaughter of James Irvine (an immigrant who assembled about of what is now Orange County to form the Irvine Ranch), Joan Irvine Smith is well known for her philanthropy.\nSmith’s reverence for California’s native plants and animals inspired her to become a leading environmental activist, speaking out about the urgent need to protect the state’s precious natural resources and to balance environmental preservation with economic growth. She was also responsible for donating land to what became the University of California at Irvine.\nAs a leading philanthropist through the Joan Irvine Smith and Athalie R. Clarke Foundation, Smith continues to champion the University of California at Irvine, funding important medical causes, including the Reeve-Irvine Research Center. She also supports NWRI, which was founded by her vision and financial support, as well as numerous other environmental, cultural, and historical endeavors.\n"}
{"id": "33235286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33235286", "title": "Australian settlement", "text": "Australian settlement\n\nThe Australian settlement is a term that has been used to describe a set of nation-building policies adopted in Australia at the beginning of the twentieth century. Those policies profoundly influenced the way Australia developed over the coming decades and were only dismantled towards the end of the century. They were: the 'White Australia' Policy of immigration restriction; protective tariffs on imports of manufactured goods; a system of compulsory conciliation and arbitration for industrial disputes; and early social welfare policies. The term 'settlement' refers to the way this constellation of policies emerged as a compromise between major interests in Australian society at that time, namely workers and employers.\n\nBritain's Australian colonies had developed rapidly and successfully in the 19th century to become a major exporter of certain commodities, notably wool. By the 1880s they had become among the wealthiest societies in the world and had also developed unusually strong labour movements. Some manufacturing for local consumption had also become established. This was supported and promoted in the Colony of Victoria by a protective tariff that had been introduced in 1866 to help generate local employment for migrants initially attracted to the gold fields.\n\nOver the course of the economically difficult and industrially conflictual 1890s, the six colonies agreed to federate as the Commonwealth of Australia. The establishment of a national government spanning the continent and the transfer of certain key functions to that government entailed the establishment of new national policies in regard to a range of important economic and social matters. Customs tariffs, for instance, immediately became an exclusive concern of the Commonwealth government and the Commonwealth assumed primacy in a number of other areas such as immigration.\n\nThere was obviously a lot of business for the new parliament in those first years after Federation took effect on 1 January 1901. The decision-making was complicated, though, by the fact that no single party enjoyed a majority until Labor took office in 1910. The three-cornered contest between Protectionist Liberals, Free Trade Liberals and the Australian Labor Party (ALP), saw the Protectionists introduce the key 'Australian settlement' policies with Labor support. This began with the \"Immigration Restriction Act\", which had support from all sides of politics, and continued through the \"Customs Tariff Act\", the \"Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904\" and the \"Old Age Pension Act\". In addition, the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration brought down its 'living wage' determination requiring employers to pay their workers enough to support a man and his wife and three children.\n\nFor theorist Francis Castles, implementation of these policies constituted an economic development strategy of 'domestic defence' -- using Australia's natural wealth to support an otherwise uncompetitive manufacturing sector, providing a good living to workers and pensions for later life.\n\nDismantling the domestic defence framework began with the ending of the White Australia Policy between the mid-1960s and the mid-1970s. Australia persisted, however, with other components such as tariff protectionism while other advanced economies were moving toward more open trade in the post-war years through the GATT process. Weaknesses in Australia's commodity exporting economy combined with steadily increasing competition in world manufacturing thanks to the 'NICs' (newly industrialized countries) put that strategy under great pressure in the 1980s. Under the Hawke-Keating Labor governments (1983–96), both tariff protectionism and centralised wage fixing were wound back. As part of the campaign to liberalise the Australian economy in this period, journalist Paul Kelly coined the phrase 'Australian Settlement' and blamed those early policy decisions for Australia's economic difficulties of the 1970s and 1980s. A closer examination makes that interpretation difficult to sustain, but does not alter the reality that by the late twentieth century the strategy of domestic defence had become an encumbrance.\n"}
{"id": "17105844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17105844", "title": "Azerbaijanis in Armenia", "text": "Azerbaijanis in Armenia\n\nAzerbaijanis in Armenia () were once the largest ethnic minority in the country, but have been virtually non-existent since 1988–1991 when most either fled the country or were pushed out as a result of the Nagorno-Karabakh War and the ongoing conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. UNHCR estimates the current population of Azeris in Armenia to be somewhere between 30 and a few hundred people, with majority of them living in rural areas and being members of mixed couples (mostly mixed marriages), as well as elderly or sick. Most of them are reported to have changed their names to maintain low profiles to avoid discrimination.\n\nUpon Seljuk conquests in the tenth century, the mass of the Oghuz Turkic tribes crossed the Amu Darya towards the west left the Iranian plateau, which remained Persian, and established themselves further west, in Armenia, the Caucasus, and Anatolia. Here they divided into the Ottomans, who were Sunni and created settlements, and the Turcomans, who were nomads and in part Shiite (or, rather, Alevi), gradually becoming sedentary and assimilating with the local population.\n\nUntil the mid-fourteenth century, Armenians had constituted a majority in Eastern Armenia. At the close of the fourteenth century, after Timur's campaigns of extermination of local population, Islam had become the dominant faith, and Armenians became a minority in Eastern Armenia. After centuries of constant warfare on the Armenian Plateau, many Armenians chose to emigrate and settle elsewhere. Following Shah Abbas I's massive relocation of Armenians and Muslims in 1604-05, their numbers dwindled even further.\n\nSome 80% of the population of Iranian Armenia were Muslims (Persians, Turkics, and Kurds) whereas Christian Armenians constituted a minority of about 20%. As a result of the Treaty of Gulistan (1813) and the Treaty of Turkmenchay (1828), Iran was forced to cede Iranian Armenia (which also constituted the present-day Republic of Armenia), to the Russians.\n\nAfter the Russian administration took hold of Iranian Armenia, the ethnic make-up shifted, and thus for the first time in more than four centuries, ethnic Armenians started to form a majority once again in one part of historic Armenia. The new Russian administration encouraged the settling of ethnic Armenians from Iran proper and Ottoman Turkey. As a result, by 1832, the number of ethnic Armenians had matched that of the Muslims. Anyhow, it would be only after the Crimean War and the Russo-Turkish War of 1877–1878, which brought another influx of Turkish Armenians, that ethnic Armenians once again established a solid majority in Eastern Armenia. Nevertheless, the city of Erivan (present-day Yerevan) remained having a Muslim majority up to the twentieth century. According to the traveler H. F. B. Lynch, the city was about 50% Armenian and 50% Muslim (Azerbaijanis and Persians) in the early 1890s.\n\nAccording to the \"Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary\", by the beginning of the twentieth century a significant population of Azeris still lived in Russian Armenia. They numbered about 300,000 persons or 37.5% in Russia's Erivan Governorate (roughly corresponding to most of present-day central Armenia, the Iğdır Province of Turkey, and Azerbaijan's Nakhchivan exclave).\n\nMost lived in rural areas and were engaged in farming and carpet-weaving. They formed the majority in four of the governorate's seven districts, including the city of Erivan itself, where they constituted 49% of the population (compared to 48% constituted by Armenians). Azeris also constituted a majority in what later became the regions of Sisian, Kafan and Meghri in the Armenian SSR (present-day Syunik Province, Armenia, at the time part of the Elisabethpol Governorate). Traditionally Azeris in Armenia were almost entirely Shia Muslim, with the exception of the Talin region, as well as small pockets in Shorayal and around Vedi where they mainly adhered to Sunni Islam. Traveller Luigi Villari reported in 1905 that in Erivan the Azeris (to whom he referred as \"Tartars\") were generally wealthier than the Armenians, and owned nearly all of the land.\n\nFor Azeris of Armenia, the twentieth century was the period of marginalization, discrimination, mass and often forcible migrations resulting in significant changes in the country's ethnic composition, even though they had managed to stay its largest ethnic minority until the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. In 1905–1907 Erivan Governorate became an arena of clashes between Armenians and Azeris believed to have been instigated by the Russian government in order to draw public attention away from the Russian Revolution of 1905.\n\nTensions rose again after both Armenia and Azerbaijan became briefly independent from the Russian Empire in 1918. Both quarreled over where their common borders lay. Warfare coupled with the influx of Armenian refugees resulted in widespread massacres of Muslims in Armenia causing virtually all of them to flee to Azerbaijan. Andranik Ozanian and Rouben Ter Minassian were particularly prominent in the destruction of Muslim settlements and in the planned ethnic homogenisation of regions with once mixed population through populating them with Armenian refugees from Turkey. Ter Minassian, displeased with the fact that Azeris in Armenia lived on fertile lands, waged at least three campaigns aimed at cleansing Azeris from 20 villages outside Erivan, as well as in the south of the country. According to French historian (and Ter Minassian's daughter-in-law) Anahide Ter Minassian, to achieve his goals, he used intimidation and negotiations, but above all, \"fire and steel\" and \"the most violent methods to 'encourage' Muslims in Armenia\" to leave.\n\nThough Azeris were represented by three delegates in an 80-seat Armenian parliament (much more modestly than Armenians in the Azerbaijani parliament), they were universally targeted as \"Turkish fifth columnists\". In his June 1919 report, Anastas Mikoyan stated that \"the organised extermination of the Muslim population in Armenia threatened to result in Azerbaijan declaring a war [against Armenia] any minute\". According to British reports, some 250 Muslim villages had been burnt in the eastern Caucasus as a result of a killing spree initiated by Armenian units led by Andranik Ozanian.\n\nRelatively few of the evicted Azeris returned, as according to the 1926 All-Soviet population census there were only 84,705 Azeris living in Armenia, comprising 9.6% of the population. By 1939 their numbers had increased to 131,896.\n\nIn 1947, Grigory Arutyunov, then First Secretary of the Communist Party of Armenia, managed to persuade the Council of Ministers of the USSR to issue a decree entitled \"Planned measures for the resettlement of collective farm workers and other Azerbaijanis from the Armenian SSR to the Kura-Arax lowlands of the Azerbaijani SSR\". According to the decree, between 1948 and 1951, the Azeri community in Armenia became partly subject to a \"voluntary resettlement\" (called by some sources a deportation) to central Azerbaijan to make way for Armenian immigrants from the Armenian diaspora. In those four years some 100,000 Azeris were deported from Armenia. This reduced the number of those in Armenia down to 107,748 in 1959. By 1979, Azeris numbered 160,841 and constituted 5.3% of Armenia's population. The Azeri population of Yerevan, that once formed the majority, dropped to 0.7% by 1959 and further to 0.1% by 1989.\n\nSoviet education policy ensured the availability of schools with Azeri as the language of instruction in Armenia. In 1979, among the 160,841 Azeris living in Armenia, Armenian was spoken as a second language by 16,164 (10%) and Russian by 15,879 (9.9%) (compared to Armenians in Azerbaijan, of whom 8% knew Azeri and 43% knew Russian).\n\nIn 1934–1944, prior to rising to fame in Azerbaijan, prominent singer Rashid Behbudov was a soloist of the Yerevan Philharmonic and of the Armenian State Jazz Orchestra. Around the same time, he performed at the Armenian National Academic Theater of Opera and Ballet. Theatre and film critic Sabir Rzayev, an ethnic Azeri native of Yerevan, was the founder of Armenian film studies and the author of the first and only film-related monograph in Soviet Armenia.\n\nWhen the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict broke out, as the order of the Soviet Union was falling apart, Armenia had a large population of Azeri minorities. Civil unrest in Nagorno-Karabakh in 1987 led to harassment of Azerbaijanis, some of whom were forced to leave Armenia. What started off as peaceful demonstrations in support of the Nagorno-Karabakh Armenians, in the absence of a favorable solution, soon turned into a nationalist movement, manifesting in violence in Azerbaijan, Armenian, and Karabakh against the minority population.\n\nOn 25 January 1988 the first wave of Azeri refugees from Armenia settled in the city of Sumgait. On 23 March, the presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union – that is the highest institution in the Union – rejected the demands of the Nagorno-Karabakh Council of People's Deputies to join Armenia without any possibility of appeal. Troops were deployed in Yerevan to prevent protests to the decision. In the following months, Azeris in Armenia were subject to further harassment and forced to flee. In the district of Ararat, four villages were burned on 25 March. On 11 May, intimidation by violence forced many Azeris to migrate in Azerbaijan from Ararat in large numbers. On 7 June, Azeris were evicted from the town of Masis near the Armenian–Turkish border, and on the 20 June of the same month five more Azeri villages were cleansed in the Ararat region. Another major wave occurred in November 1988 as Azeris were either expelled by the nationalists and local or state authorities, or fled fearing for their lives. Many died in the process, either due to isolated Armenian attacks or adverse conditions. Due to violence that flared up in November 1988, 25 Azeris were killed, according to Armenian sources (of those 20 in the town of Gugark); and 217 (including those who died of extreme weather conditions while fleeing), according to Azerbaijani sources.\n\nIn 1988–91, the remaining Azeris were forced to flee primarily to Azerbaijan. It is impossible to determine the exact population numbers for Azeris in Armenia at the time of the conflict's escalation, since during the 1989 census forced Azeri migration from Armenia was already in progress. UNHCR's estimate is 200,000 persons.\n\nWith the departure of Azeris, not only did the Azeri cultural life in Armenia cease to exist, but its traces were being written out of history, according to journalist Thomas de Waal. In 1990 a mosque located on Vardanants Street was demolished by a bulldozer. Another Islamic site, the Blue Mosque (where most of the worshippers had been Azeri since the 1760s) has since been often referred to as the \"Persian mosque\" intending to rid Armenia of the Azeri trace by a \"linguistic sleight of hand,\" according to de Waal. Geographical names of Turkic origin were changed en masse into Armenian-sounding ones (in addition to those continuously changed from the 1930s on), a measure seen by some as a method to erase from popular memory the fact that Muslims had once formed a substantial portion of the local population.\n\nIn 2001, historian Suren Hobosyan of the Armenian Institute of Archeology and Ethnography estimated that there were 300 to 500 people of Azeri origin living in Armenia, mostly descendants of mixed marriages, with only 60 to 100 being of full Azeri ancestry. In an anonymous case study of 15 people of Azeri origin (13 of mixed Armenian–Azeri and 2 of full Azeri ancestry) carried out in 2001 by the International Organization for Migration with the help of the non-governmental Armenian Sociological Association in Yerevan, Meghri, Sotq (formerly Zod) and Avazan (formerly Göysu), 12 respondents said they concealed their Azeri roots from the public as much as possible, and only 3 said they identified as Azeri. 13 out of 15 respondents reported being Christian and none reported being Muslim.\n\nSome Azeris continue to live in Armenia to this day. Official statistics suggests there are 29 Azeris in Armenia as of 2001. Hranush Kharatyan, the then head of the Department on National Minorities and Religion Matters of Armenia, stated in February 2007: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4615758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4615758", "title": "Aztec society", "text": "Aztec society\n\nPre-Columbian Aztec society was a highly complex and stratified society that developed among the Aztecs of central Mexico in the centuries prior to the Spanish conquest of Mexico, and which was built on the cultural foundations of the larger region of Mesoamerica. Politically, the society was organized into independent city-states, called altepetls, composed of smaller divisions (calpulli), which were again usually composed of one or more extended kinship groups. Socially, the society depended on a rather strict division between nobles and free commoners, both of which were themselves divided into elaborate hierarchies of social status, responsibilities, and power. Economically the society was dependent on agriculture, and also to a large extent on warfare. Other economically important factors were commerce, long distance and local, and a high degree of trade specialization.\n\nAztec society can trace its roots to Mesoamerican Origins. Their language, lifestyle, and technology were all impacted by contact with neighboring cultures. But, while they were impacted by various sources, they developed their own distinct social groupings, political structures, traditions, and leisure activities. \n\nIn the middle of the first millennium CE, the first waves of tribes speaking the forefather language of the Nahuan languages migrated south into Mesoamerica. They were nomadic hunter-gatherers and arrived in a region that was already populated by complex societies at a highly advanced technological level. Under the influence of classic Mesoamerican civilizations such as the Teotihuacanos, the Maya, the Totonacs and the Huastecs the proto-Aztecs became sedentary agriculturalists and achieved the same levels of technology as their neighbouring peoples. They held on to their language, many of their religious systems, and probably aspects of their previous social customs. Resultingly the foundations of \"Aztec society\" were developed as a synthesis between Mesoamerican societies and Aztec traditions, although today it cannot easily be discerned which parts come from where. Aztec society was not isolated from the larger Mesoamerican context, and in fact, most aspects of it were similar in structure to what existed in the surrounding societies. ...\n\nThe definition of the term \"Aztec\" which will be applied here is that of Michael E. Smith. He defines \"Aztec\" as including all the Nahuatl speaking peoples of central Mexico, that is in opposition to a definition restricting the term \"Aztec\" to cover the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan or the parties in the Aztec Triple Alliance. This definition is referring to specific circumstances of one particular Aztec group it will be done with the ethnonym referring specifically to that group e.g. Mexica for the inhabitants of Mexico-Tenochtitlan, Tlaxcaltecs for those from Tlaxcallan and so on.\n\nThe most basic social division in Aztec society was that between nobles (Nahuatl \"pīpiltin\") and commoners (Nahuatl \"mācehualtin\"). Nobles held a large number of privileges not shared by the commoners, most importantly the right to receive tribute from commoners on their land. Commoners on the other hand were free to own and cultivate land and to manage their own possessions, while still completing the services required by their lords and their calpulli, such as tribute payment and military service. Mobility between the two social layers was difficult, but in practice both the commoner and noble groups were structured into finer hierarchies and a high degree of social mobility was possible within a given layer. For example, the pochteca, long distance traders, were considered commoners yet at the same time held a number of privileges comparable to those of the lesser nobility.\n\nThe calpulli (from Nahuatl \"calpulli\" meaning \"big house\") was a political unit composed of several interrelated family groups. The exact nature of the calpulli is not completely understood and it has been variously described as a kind of clan, a town, a ward, a parish or an agriculture based cooperative. In Nahuatl another word for calpulli was \"tlaxilacalli\" – \"a partition of houses\".\n\nThe calpulli was ruled by a local chief (\"calpuleh\"), to whom its members were normally related. He provided the calpulli members with lands for cultivation (\"calpullālli\") or with access to non-agricultural occupations in exchange for tribute and loyalty.\n\nThe calpulli ran a temple for adoration of the calpulli's deity and also a school called the Telpochcalli where young men were trained, predominantly in martial arts. In some Aztec citystates calpullis practiced a specialized or specific trade, and these calpullis functioned something like a medieval trade guild. This was the case in Otompan and in Texcoco and Tlatelolco. Other calpullis were composed of immigrant groups from other areas of Mesoamerica who settled together. There is evidence that Tenochtitlan had calpullis composed of Otomis, Mixtecs and Tlapanecs.\n\nThe altepetl (from Nahuatl \"āltepētl\" \"water-mountain\") was a city-state composed of several calpullis and ruled by a tlatoani. The altepetl was the unit that held sway over a given territory and defended and possibly expanded it by military might. The tlatoani was the head of the most influential calpulli, often because of having the most prestigious lineage. The word altepetl, however, did not only refer to the area but also to its population, and altepetl affiliation is thought to have been the primary criterion for ethnic divisions in Mesoamerica – rather than linguistic affinities.\n\nFamily and lineage were the basic units of Aztec society. One's lineage determined social standing, and noble traced their lineage back to the mythical past, as they were said to be descended from the god Quetzalcoatl. Prestigious lineages also traced their kin back through ruling dynasties, preferably ones with a Toltec heritage. The extended family group was also the basic social unit and living patterns were largely determined by family ties, because networks of family groups settled together to form calpollis. Lineage was traced through both the maternal and paternal lines, although with a preference for paternal lineage.\n\nAztec marriage practices were similar to those of other Mesoamerican civilizations such as the Mayans. Aztecs married at a later age, during their late teens and early twenties, whereas in Mayan culture it was not unusual for marriages to be arranged by parents for a son and daughter who were still children. Aztec marriages were initiated by the parents of the potential groom. After consulting with the extended kinship group, the parents would approach a professional matchmaker (\"ah atanzah\"), who would approach the potential bride's family. The parents of the young woman would advise the matchmaker whether or not they accepted the proposal. Brides were expected to be virgins before marriage, although young people of both sex were advised to be celibate.\n\nJames Lockhart, who specializes in the historical description of the Nahua, said Aztec society was characterized by a \"tendency to create larger wholes by the aggregation of parts that remain relatively separate and self-contained brought together by their common function and similarity\". This understanding entails a social stratification that is built from the bottom – up, rather than from the top – down. Aztec hierarchy by this understanding was not of the type \"where a unit of one type – the capital – controls subordinate units of another type\" but instead a type where the main unit is composed out of several constituent parts.\n\nAltepetl states would normally strive to dominate neighboring altepetl through warfare. Weak altepetl would be subjugated by stronger ones and made to pay tribute. Often subordinate altepetl would form alliances in order to overthrow a dominant altepetl. Some alliances were short-lived and others were long term relationships wherein a group of altepetl would converge to form what could almost be considered a single political entity. One example of a long term alliance between independent city-states would be that between the four altepetl of Tlaxcallan, Ocotelolco, Tizatlan, Quiyahuiztlan and Tepeticpac, which is normally thought of as a single entity even though it had four independent rulers and a certain level of internal competition. Another is the so-called Aztec Triple Alliance between Tlacopan, Texcoco and Tenochtitlan which was originally formed to end the dominance of the altepetl Azcapotzalco. The Aztec Triple Alliance eventually achieved political hegemony and control over the greater part of Mesoamerica, becoming known to posterity as the Aztec empire. Recent studies have countered the claim that the Aztec Empire ran the triple alliance by suggesting that Tenochtitlan was actually the dominant altepetl all along. \n\nThe economic practices of the Aztec relied upon both trade and military conquest. Furthermore, each Altepetl usually produced some form of unique trade good, meaning there were significant merchant and artisan classes. While the Aztec traded with each other and others for goods and services, agricultural trade was less common, leading to a large class of agricultural laborers. \n\nThe pre-conquest Aztecs were an empire that prospered agriculturally, and they did so without the wheel or domestic beasts of burden. They primarily practiced four methods of agriculture: rainfall cultivation, terrace agriculture, irrigation, and Chinampa. \n\nThe earliest, and most basic, form of agriculture implemented by the Aztecs is known as “ rainfall cultivation.” \n\nThe Aztecs implemented terrace agriculture in hilly areas, typically in the highlands of the Aztec empire. Terracing allowed for an increased soil depth and impeded soil erosion. Terraces were built by piling a wall of stones parallel to the contour of the hillside. Dirt was then filled in, creating viable, flat farmland. There were three distinct types of terrace, each used for specific circumstances: hillslope contour terraces (steeper slopes), semi-terraces (gentle slopes, walls were made with Maguey plants rather than stones), and cross-channel terraces. \n\nIn the valleys of the empire, irrigation farming was used. Dams diverted water from natural springs to the fields. This allowed for more regular harvests because the prosperity of an irrigated field was not dependent upon the rain. Irrigation systems had been in place long before the Aztecs. However, they built canal systems that were longer and more elaborate than any previous irrigation systems. They even managed to divert a large portion of the Cuauhtitlan River to provide irrigation to large areas. The network of canals was very complex and intricate.\n\nIn the swampy regions along Lake Xochimilco, the Aztecs implemented a unique method of crop cultivation, \"chinampas.\" Chinampas, areas of raised land in a body of water, were created from alternating layers of mud from the bottom of the lake and plant matter/other vegetation. These “raised beds” were between 2 and 4 meters wide, and 20 to 40 meters long. They rose approximately 1 meter above the surface of the water, and were separated by narrow canals, which allowed farmers to move between them by canoe. The chinampas were extremely fertile pieces of land, and yielded, on average, seven crops annually. In order to plant on them, farmers first created “seedbeds,” or reed rafts, where they planted seeds and\nallowed them to germinate. Once they had germinated, they were re-planted on the chinampas. This cut the growing time down considerably.\n\nAztec farmers could be divided into general laborers and specialists. General laborers could be slaves, menial workers, or farm hands, while specialists were responsible for things like choosing the most successful seeds and crop rotations.\n\nThe Aztecs are credited with domestication of the subspecies of wild turkey, \"Meleagris gallopavo\", which is native to this region.\n\nAztec armed forces were typically composed of large numbers of commoners with basic military training, who were stiffened by smaller numbers of professional warriors belonging to the nobility. The professional warriors were organized into warrior societies and often ranked according to their achievements. \nAs the Aztec state was centered on expansion, dominance, and exaction of tribute from other city-states, warfare became the basic dynamic force in Aztec politics, economy, and religion.\n\nPrior to the fall of the Aztec, the Aztec people had a stable economy driven by a successful trade market. The markets, which were located in the center of many communities, were well organized and diverse in goods, as noted by the Spanish conquistadors upon their arrival. The regional merchants, known as tlacuilo, would barter utilitarian items and food, which included gold, silver, and other precious stones, cloth and cotton, animal skins, both agriculture and wild game, and woodwork. The trade market of the Aztec people was not only important to commerce, but also to the socialization, as the markets provided a place for the people to exchange information within their regions. This type of trade market was used primarily for locally produced goods, as there was not much traveling needed to exchange goods at the market. With no domestic animals as an effective way to transport goods, the local markets were an essential part of Aztec commerce. However, the Aztec nobility obtained much of their merchandise from neighboring highland basins, distant places within the empire, and from land beyond the empire therefore creating the need for a long distance trade organization.\nThe long distance trade was carried out by merchants called pochteca, who were defined by their positions within the system. These professional merchants occupied a high status in Aztec society, below the noble class. The pochteca were responsible for providing the materials that the noble class used to display their wealth. These materials were often obtained from foreign sources. Due to the success of the pochteca, many of the merchants became as wealthy as the noble class, but were obligated to hide this wealth from the public. The pochteca were an advanced group who reported to 12 locations throughout the Empire, where the high officials were located.\n\nThe highest officials of the pochteca were the pochteca tlatoque. The pochteca tlatoque were the elder of the pochteca, and were no longer travelers, but rather acted as administrators, overseeing young pochteca and administering the marketplace. The second group of pochteca was the slave traders, known as the tlatoani. These people were often referred to as the richest of merchants, as they played a central role in capturing the slaves used for sacrificial victims.\n\nThe third group of long distance traders was the tencunenenque, who worked for the rulers by carrying out personal trade.\n\nA group of trader spies, known as the natural oztomeca, made up the last group of pochteca. The natural oztomeca were forced to disguise themselves as they traveled, as they sought after rare goods. The natural oztomeca were also used for gathering information at the markets and reporting the information to the higher levels of pochteca.\n\nAll trade throughout the Aztec Empire was regulated by officers who patrolled the markets to ensure that the buyers were not being cheated by the merchants. Because markets were so numerous, in large cities reaching upwards of 20,000 people, the organization was crucial, and the Aztecs were able to create a successful market due to the success of enforcing the laws of the empire.\n\nThe Mexica, the founders and dominant group of the Aztec Empire, were one of the first people in the world to have mandatory education for nearly all children, regardless of gender, rank, or station. \n\nUntil the age of fourteen, the education of children was in the hands of their parents, but supervised by the authorities of their \"calpulli\". Periodically they attended their local temples, to test their progress.\n\nPart of this education involved learning a collection of sayings, called \"huehuetlatolli\" (\"The sayings of the old\"), that embodied the Aztecs' ideals. It included speeches and sayings for every occasion, the words to salute the birth of children, and to say farewell at death. Fathers admonished their daughters to be respectful and very clean, but not to use makeup, because they would look like \"ahuianis\". Mothers admonished their daughters to support their husbands, even if they turned out to be humble peasants. Boys were admonished to be humble, obedient and hard workers. Judging by their language, most of the \"huehuetlatolli\" seemed to have evolved over several centuries, predating the Aztecs and most likely adopted from other Nahua cultures.\n\nChildren were taught at home until about 15 years of age, but all Aztec children, boys and girls, were expected to attend school for some time when they were between 10 and 20 years old. Boys and girls went to school at age 15.\n\nThere were two types of schools: the \"telpochcalli\", for practical and military studies, and the \"calmecac\", for advanced learning in writing, astronomy, statesmanship, theology, and other areas. The two institutions seem to be common to the Nahua people, leading some experts to suggest that they are older than the Aztec culture.\n\n\nEach \"calpulli\" specialized in some handicrafts, and this was an important part of the income of the city. The teaching of handicraft was highly valued.\n\nThe healers (\"tizitl\") had several specialities. Some were trained to just inspect and classify medicinal plants, others were trained in the preparation of medicines that were sold in special places (\"tlapalli\"). More than a hundred preparations are known, including deodorants, remedies for smelly feet, dentifric paste etc. Also there were \"tizitl\" specialized in surgery, digestive diseases, teeth and nose, skin diseases, etc.\n\nAztec teachers (\"tlamatimine\") propounded a spartan regime of education – cold baths in the morning, hard work, physical punishment, bleeding with maguey thorns and endurance tests – with the purpose of forming a stoical people.\n\nThere is contradictory information about whether \"calmecac\" was reserved for the sons and daughters of the \"pillis\"; some accounts said they could choose where to study. It is possible that the common people preferred the \"telpochcalli\", because a warrior could advance more readily by his military abilities; becoming a priest or a \"tlacuilo\" was not a way to rise rapidly from a low station.\n\nGirls were educated in the crafts of home and child raising. They were not taught to read or write. Some of them were educated as midwives and received the full training of a healer; they were also called \"tizitl\". Female tizitl would treat women throughout their reproductive life. They would admonish young wives, and after the second month of pregnancy, they began to watch for any problems. They preferred to save the woman's life over that of a fetus, resorting to embryotomy. Because of this, their work, called \"temiuxiuliztli\", has sometimes been translated as \"obstetrics\" (Medicine in Mexico, before the Discovery. Dr. Manuel Valdez 1992). All women were taught to be involved \"in the things of god\"; there are paintings of women presiding over religious ceremonies, but there are no references to female priests.\n\nThere were also two other opportunities for those few who had talent. Some were chosen for the house of song and dance, and others were chosen for the ball game. Both occupations had high status.\nRecreation came in different forms in Aztec society. Ullamaliztli, the ball game, was a large part of the indigenous society and had ritual aspects. Dance, however could be used in many different ways such as entertainment, religion or politics. \n\nIn Aztec society, dance could be used for entertainment, religious and sacrificial purposes, or for politics. When the intent was entertainment, it was performed in either a temple, temple or secluded areas for nobles. These performances often included songs, instrumental music and sometimes comic sketches. When used for religion or sacrifice, it followed the sacred Aztec calendar and its ritual cycle. Dance could also be used in politics to show imperial power and to impress the gods for successful wars and conquest.\n\nThe sources for information about Aztec society are primarily documents written in the Spanish language in the first century after the Spanish conquest. Important among these are the Florentine Codex, a 12 volume ethnographic description of precolumbian Aztec society compiled by Bernardino de Sahagún, the chronicle of Diego Durán, and the descriptions of the first conquistadors such as those of Hernán Cortés himself and of Bernal Díaz del Castillo. In recent decades the archaeological study of precolumbian Aztec civilization has also unearthed important information about Aztec society which has led to a deeper understanding particularly of social structures and trade.\n\n(search return) specifically: \"Kathleen Kuiper - Pre-Columbian America: Empires of the New World The Rosen Publishing Group, 2010\" \n"}
{"id": "27598128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27598128", "title": "Basa-Benue language", "text": "Basa-Benue language\n\nBasa, disambiguated as Basa-Benue, and also called \"Abacha, Abatsa, Bassa-Komo, Bassa-Kwomu, Rubasa, Rubassa\", is a Kainji language spoken in central Nigeria, in the vicinity of Bassa, Ankpa, Nasarawa, and Kwali Local Government Areas and of the city of Makurdi. Blench (2008) notes that Basa-Makurdi, Basa-Gurara, and Basa-Kwali are separate varieties from Bassa of Bassa LGA.\n\nBasa speakers also often speak Igala or Nupe.\n"}
{"id": "36699419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36699419", "title": "Chicago Commission on Race Relations", "text": "Chicago Commission on Race Relations\n\nThe Chicago Commission on Race Relations was a non-partisan, interracial investigative committee, appointed by Illinois governor Frank Lowden. The commission was set up after the Chicago riots of July and August 1919 in \"which thirty-eight lives were lost, twenty-three Negros and fifteen whites, and 537 persons were injured\". The purpose of the commission was to investigate the causes of the Riot and make recommendations to prevent a tragedy like this from reoccurring. The research was the first extensive research on interracial Black-white relations conducted in Chicago funded by a government agency.\n\nThe sociological study was published in 1922 by the University of Chicago Press as \"The Negro in Chicago: A Study of Race Relations and a Race Riot\". The study included a substantial review of the background of the riots, the riots themselves, and their aftermath, together with original work and investigation into the relations between and perceptions of the black and white communities in Chicago. \"The Negro in Chicago\" ran to 672 pages with a number of plates, plans and other additional matter.\n\nThe Chicago Commission on Race Relations was composed of eighty-one citizens, representing forty-eight social, civic, commercial, and professional organizations of Chicago. Before conducting the research, the commission felt that a strong emphasis should be placed on understanding the life of the Negro in Chicago, in particular the relations between the two races. The following six subcommittees were created: Committee on Racial Clashes, Committee on Housing, Committee on Industry, Committee on Crime, Committee on Racial Contracts, Committee on Public Opinion.\n\nChicago at this time experienced a drastic increase of Black migration from the South. World War I brought industrial jobs to cities in the North but many of these jobs were only available to whites. The arrival of black people in northern cities led to an increase in rent in underdeveloped neighborhoods and white flight. Expansion of the ghetto caused friction among white residents \"that bombs were thrown at black owned homes\". \nThe research was conducted by a series of \"conferences or informal hearings, and through research and fieldwork carried on by staff or trained investigator\". Chicago neighborhoods were classified into four groups: (1) mixed, unadjusted neighborhoods; (2) mixed, adjusted neighborhoods; (3) contested areas; and (4) neighborhoods that are entirely white or negro.\n\nThe study concluded that there were no immediate solutions to remedy the tensions between the racial groups and suggested that \"through mutual understanding and sympathy between the races will be followed by harmony and co-operation\".\n\nThe records of the commission are stored in the Illinois State Archives.\n"}
{"id": "43702384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43702384", "title": "Chīmalli", "text": "Chīmalli\n\nThe Chimalli (from Nahuatl:Shield, ) was the traditional defensive armament of the indigenous states of Mesoamerica. These shields varied in design and purpose. The Chimali was also used while wearing special headgear.\n\nOtlachimalli consisted of maize cane with the individual strands double-twisted with interwoven cotton or maguey fibers. On the front ornaments were attached in the form of faces, legendary figures and other illustrations which were meant to convey heraldry and status of the user. These representations were worked with colorful feathers in the form of a mosaic. In addition, materials such as beaten copper and gold would be used for decoration. The Otlachimalli was used as a battle shield. The reverse was reinforced by horizontal and vertical wooden struts. A leather cover was used to protect the carrying arm. In some shields tortoise shell was used to manufacture decorations. \nThe Cuauhchimalli was made of wood and decorated in the same manner as the Otlachimalli. On the cuauhchimalli also mosaics from stone chips were sometimes applied. The reverse was equipped with two leather straps which were used for carrying the shield. In both types a leather pad was attached to the front as the basis for the ornaments, and they had a curtain of leather \"straps\" attached to the bottom portion of the shield which served as extra protection from arrows.\n\nThe size of the shields varied. Some had normal(circular design) dimensions, others covered the whole body. There are reports of versions that could be folded. There were also ceremonial shields called māhuizzoh chimalli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4241004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4241004", "title": "Communicative action", "text": "Communicative action\n\nIn sociology, communicative action is cooperative action undertaken by individuals based upon mutual deliberation and argumentation. The term was developed by German philosopher-sociologist Jürgen Habermas in his work \"The Theory of Communicative Action\".\n\nCommunicative action for Habermas is possible given human capacity for rationality. This rationality, however, is \"no longer tied to, and limited by, the subjectivistic and individualistic premises of modern philosophy and social theory.\" Instead, Habermas situates rationality as a capacity inherent within language, especially in the form of argumentation. \"We use the term argumentation for that type of speech in which participants thematize contested validity claims and attempt to vindicate or criticize them through argumentation.\" The structures of argumentative speech, which Habermas identifies as the absence of coercive force, the mutual search for understanding, and the compelling power of the better argument, form the \nkey features from which intersubjective rationality can make communication possible. Action undertaken by participants through a process of such argumentative communication can be assessed as to their rationality to the extent which they fulfill those criteria.\n\nCommunicative rationality is distinct from instrumental, normative, and dramaturgic rationality by its ability to concern all three \"worlds\" as he terms them, following Karl Popper—the subjective, objective, and intersubjective or social. Communicative rationality is self-reflexive and open to a dialogue in which participants in an argument can learn from others and from themselves by reflecting upon their premises and thematizing aspects of their cultural background knowledge to question suppositions that typically go without question.\n\nCommunicative action is action based upon this deliberative process, where two or more individuals interact and coordinate their action based upon agreed interpretations of the situation. Communicative action is distinguished by Habermas from other forms of action, such as instrumental action, which is pure goal-oriented behavior, dealt with primarily in economics, by taking all functions of language into consideration. That is, communicative action has the ability to reflect upon language used to express propositional truth, normative value, or subjective self-expression.\n\nMuch of Habermas' work has been in response to his predecessors in the Frankfurt School. Communicative rationality, for instance, can be seen as a response to the critique of enlightenment reason expressed in Max Horkheimer and T.W. Adorno's \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\". Horkheimer and Adorno had argued that the Enlightenment saw a particular kind of rationality enshrined as dominant in western culture, instrumental reason, which had only made possible the more effective and ruthless manipulation of nature and human beings themselves. Habermas' form of critical theory is designed to rediscover through the analysis of positive potentials for human rationality in the medium of language, the possibility of a critical form of reason that can lead to reflection and examination of not only objective questions, but also those of social norms, human values, and even aesthetic expression of subjectivity.\n\nHabermas' earlier work, \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\", anticipates his concern for argumentation and can be read retrospectively as a historical case study of Western European societies institutionalizing aspects of communicative action in the political and social spheres. Habermas notes the rise of institutions of public debate in late seventeenth and eighteenth century Britain and France especially. In these nations, information exchange and communication methods pioneered by capitalist merchants became adapted to novel purposes and were employed as an outlet for the public use of reason. The notion of communicative rationality in the public sphere is therefore heavily indebted to Immanuel Kant's formulation of the public use of reason in \"What is Enlightenment?\" Habermas argues that the bourgeoisie who participated in this incipient public sphere universalized those aspects of their class that enabled them to present the public sphere as inclusive—he even goes so far as to say that a public sphere that operates upon principles of exclusivity is not a public sphere at all. The focus on foundations of democracy established in this work carried over to his later examination in \"The Theory of Communicative Action\" that greater democratization and the reduction to barriers to participation in public discourse (some of which he identified in the first public sphere of the Enlightenment) could open the door to a more open \nform of social action. The shift from a more Marxist focus on the economic bases of discourse in Structural Transformation to a more \"super-structural\" emphasis on language and communication in \"Theory of Communicative Action\" signals Habermas' transition to a post-Marxist framework.\n\nHabermas views communication and debate in the public sphere as argumentatively meritocratic. Critics have argued that Habermas' notion of communicative rationality, upon which communicative action must be based, is illusory. The formal prerequisites of equality among argument participants, for instance, may mask the reality of unequal social capital. \"There is no guarantee that a formally symmetrical distribution of opportunities to select and employ speech acts will result in anything more than an expression of the status quo.\" Historian Ian McNeeley, for instance, contrasts Habermas' view with Michel Foucault's notion of communication as embodying pre-existing power relationships: \"Jürgen Habermas subscribes to an unrealistic ideal of power-free communication…Michel Foucault remedies this idealism by treating knowledge as power; his work is in fact suffused with applications of knowledge for the control of human bodies.\" In a like manner, the discursive fiction of consensus achieved through rational argumentation might be used as a legitimating prop for social action to the detriment of marginalized members-this is the basis of much feminist critique of Habermas' notions.\n\nAnother radical critique is that of Nikolas Kompridis, a former student of Habermas, who views Habermas' theory as another attempt to arrive at a \"view from nowhere\", this time by locating rationality in procedures of reaching agreement independent of any particular participants' perspective or background. In response, he proposes a \"possibility-disclosing\" role of reason to correct the problems with Habermas' work.\n\n"}
{"id": "29321601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29321601", "title": "Crime in Glendale, California", "text": "Crime in Glendale, California\n\nCrime in Glendale, California:\n\nGlendale police officers took on bootleggers and airmen in the 1920s, a decade when the department had both a \"liquor detail\" and an \"air policeman\" charged with citing pilots for flying violations committed over the city. In 1944, the Glendale city manager took on Police Chief V.B. Browne over suspected officer corruption, and Browne was asked to resign for failing to control his staff. But Browne asked to stay on as a patrolman, and he walked a beat until his retirement in 1948.\n\nGlendale lost four police officers in the line of duty. The first officer in the area killed in the line of duty was Charles Whitney Smith, marshal for the city of Tropico, later annexed by Glendale. Smith had already been told he was fired, but he wanted to finish his day. So on his last day, Jan. 9, 1915, he was shot to death when he tried to stop a robbery suspect on a street car.\n\nGlendale police officer Leslie O. Clem was killed in a motorcycle accident in 1926 while pursuing a suspect's car. During the course of the pursuit his motorcycle struck streetcar tracks, causing Officer Clem to be thrown from the bike. He succumbed to his injuries the next day.\n\nIn 1946, California Highway Patrolman Loren C. Roosevelt stopped a speeding vehicle on Los Feliz Boulevard when he was shot nine times by Erwin Walker, an Army veteran and former Glendale Police Department employee. Officer Roosevelt later died of his wounds.\n\nIn 1972, Glendale police officer John Isaacson was killed in an automobile accident while on duty.\n\nIn 1997, Charles Lazzaretto became the first Glendale police officer in 25 years to die in the line of duty when an attempted-murder suspect, holed up in a Chatsworth warehouse, shot Lazzaretto in the head. In the ensuing gunfight two Los Angeles police officers were wounded, and the suspect, Israel Gonzalez, committed suicide.\n\nIn 1985, \"Night Stalker\" Richard Ramirez terrorized the Los Angeles area, including Glendale. He was linked to the death of Max Kneiding and his wife, Lela Ellen, who were shot to death in their Glendale home. Ramirez also was later linked to a slaying just south of Glendale's Forest Lawn Memorial Park. In an earlier case, Angelo Buono, a Glendale auto upholsterer, was convicted of sexually torturing and murdering nine women whose bodies were dumped on Los Angeles-area hillsides in 1977 and 1978.\n\nIn June 1990, an arson fire damaged or destroyed 64 homes in Glendale's San Rafael Hills and caused $40 million in damage. Evening rush-hour traffic was brought to a halt at the height of the fire as flames burned on both sides of the Glendale Freeway. The fire, one of the worst in the city's history, resulted in flames leapfrogging from house to house, destroying some, leaving others untouched. After the devastating fire, the Glendale City Council passed a brush-clearing ordinance that called for more frequent inspection of private property by fire officials, and it allowed firefighters to cut back overgrown brush on private property and charge owners for the work.\n\nOn February 6, 1996, seven people were killed in the worst arson-murder in the city's history. The fire killed a Glendale mother, Turan Avanesian, and her six children, from ages 4 to 17. Jorjik Avanesian, who was convicted of dousing his family's one-bedroom apartment in Glendale with gasoline and setting it on fire, later killed himself in jail.\n\nIn 2005, 11 people died and about 180 were injured in a Metrolink (Southern California) train accident when a man who later claimed he was suicidal parked his sport utility vehicle on the tracks in Glendale. The driver was convicted of murder.\n\nGlendale was once home to more than 30 different gangs. Gang violence peaked in the '90s. Over time, the numbers have dropped significantly, and now there are only five documented gangs in the city. Gang activity is primarily located in the low-income, Hispanic area of South Glendale, bordering the Northeast Los Angeles neighborhoods of Atwater Village, and Glassell Park. Historically, South Glendale is claimed by the Mexican gang Tooner Ville Rifa. The gang's ongoing attempt to control this area has led to turf wars between it and rival gangs from the bordering cities. Even the arrest and conviction of one of the gang's leaders has done little to stop gang activity. The problem has pushed Glendale and Los Angeles city officials to seek an injunction against the gang, covering . This area is bordered by the Los Angeles River, the Glendale Freeway, and the streets of Broadway and Verdugo Road. In 2009, TVR was listed as one of LAPD's top 14 targeted street gangs.\n\nAnother primary source of Glendale's gang problem is the Avenues gang, which has also been listed as one of the LAPD's top 14 targeted street gangs. On June 25, 2008, over 500 officers, including SWAT teams, participated in a take-down of the gang. A clique leader was arrested in the 900 block of East Windsor in South Glendale.\n"}
{"id": "1997407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997407", "title": "Criminalization", "text": "Criminalization\n\nCriminalization or criminalisation, in criminology, is \"the process by which behaviors and individuals are transformed into crime and criminals\". Previously legal acts may be transformed into crimes by legislation or judicial decision. However, there is usually a formal presumption in the rules of statutory interpretation against the retrospective application of laws and only the use of express words by the legislature may rebut this presumption. The power of judges to make new law and retrospectively criminalise behaviour is also discouraged. In a less overt way, where laws have not been strictly enforced, the acts prohibited by those laws may also undergo \"de facto\" criminalization through more effective or committed legal enforcement.\n\nThere has been some uncertainty as to the nature and extent of the contribution to be made by the victims of crime. But, as Garkawe (2001) indicates, the relationship between victimology and criminology has become problematic. The concern is that, within the dialectic of Right Realism and Left Realism, a focus on the victim promotes rights selectively for certain victims, and advocates the assumption that some victim rights are more important than competing rights or values in society. For example, an Islamic feminist might seek consistency of treatment for women as victims and, therefore, demand the decriminalization of abortion, adultery, and seduction (Zina is a Hudud offense in sharia law), and the criminalization of domestic violence and sexual harassment.\n\nIn formal academically published theory, the real ruling class of a society reaches a temporary view on whether certain acts or behavior are harmful or criminal. Historically this one theory will be modified by scientific, medical evidence, by political change, and the criminal justice system may or may not treat those matters as crimes.\n\nConversely, when local politics determines that it is no longer a crime, they may be decriminalized. For example, Recommendation No. R (95) 12 adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the management of criminal justice, advocates that crime policies such as decriminalization, depenalisation or diversion, and mediation should be adopted wherever possible. But the law and order debate between right and left politicians is often superficial and unscientific, formulating policies based on their appeal to an uniformed electorate rather than properly conducted research.\n\nSeveral principles may underpin decisions about criminalization. These include the \"de minimis\" principle, that of the minimum criminalization. Under this principle, the general harm principle fails to consider the possibility of other sanctions and the effectiveness of criminalization as a chosen option. Those other sanctions include civil courts, laws of tort and regulation. Having criminal remedies in place is seen as a \"last resort\" since such actions often infringe personal liberties – incarceration, for example, prevents the freedom of movement. In this sense, law making that places a greater emphasis on human rights. Most crimes of direct actions (murder, rape, assault, for example) are generally not affected by such a stance, but it does require greater justification in less clear cases.\n\nThe policy of \"social defense\" can be seen as an opposing view. It argues that criminalization is used against \"any form of activity which threatens good order or is thought reprehensible\". The minimization principle may unwittingly prevent the adaptation of the law to new situations. In general, worldwide policy makers have created a myriad of smaller offences, in contradiction to the minimization principle and more in keeping with the social defence.\n\nLeading criminal law philosophers, such as Dennis Baker and Joel Feinberg have argued that conduct should only be criminalized when it is fair to do so. In particular, such theorists assert that objective reasons are needed to demonstrate that it is fair to criminalize conduct in any given case. The commonly cited objective justification for invoking the criminal law is harm to others, but it cannot deal with all situations. For example, people are not necessarily harmed by public nudity. Feinberg suggests that offence to others also provides an objective reason for invoking the criminal law, but it clearly does not as offence is determined according to conventional morality. Prostitution is another grey area, as some countries allow it in different forms, and it is hard to say whether or not it specifically harms the public in general. One argument may be that prostitution perpetuates the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS, and therefore harms the public which partakes in the act of prostitution. However, the legalization of prostitution would change the way it is regulated, and law enforcement could find a way to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted disease, thus eliminating the health issue and the question of the morality of the profession would be weakened.\n\nPeople experience a range of physical and social injuries in different contexts which will vary according to the level of economic and political development of their country. Some will be injured out of poverty and malnutrition, others by violence which might stem from a major conflict such as war or from the personal violence in a robbery. The environment may be damaged by pollution, there may be hazards at work. Many of these sources of injury will be ignored while the state may delegate powers of control to a number of different agencies within an international framework where supranational agencies and human rights organisations may offer assistance in responding to the causes of those injuries.\n\nThe extent to which behaviours considered morally wrong in a given jurisdiction should be criminalized is controversial. Lying or breaking promises are not in general criminalised, for example. Patrick Devlin believed that moral behaviour was essential in maintaining the cohesion of a state, and so lawmakers should be entitled to criminalise immoral behaviour. However, opponents of this approach typically suggest use of a harm principle only and that immorality is not a reason in itself since outcomes of such activity can be used to come to a conclusion alone. Devlin's argument uses the disgust of the general public as a definition of morality; however, issues involving prejudice have shown this to be flawed and opponents push for a much stricter definition if this approach is to be used. Devlin suggested a jury to give an indication of immoral behaviour. As well as prejudice, views were likely to vary widely on issues such as homosexuality, contraception and other matters, particularly those influenced by religion. Agreement would be hard to find. Other opposition has been from liberal groups which favour approaches which maximise individual rights. A moral basis for criminalization would be paternalistic, thereby contrasting with personal autonomy. The European Convention of Human Rights, in the most part supporting individual rights from government interferences, still includes a provision for interference \"for the protection of health and morals\" such as legally requiring seat belts to be worn (in some jurisdictions) are hard to justify if an individualistic approach is taken, since, if public health provision is ignored, little harm is caused to others.\n\nJoseph Raz argues that the state cannot and should not enforce morality; rather, any attempt to limit individual autonomy should be done only to limit harm. Certain moral ideals may be justifiable if they extend autonomy. If the immoral conduct of others impinges on someone else's autonomy, then that can be legislated against. There are some groups for whom the principle of autonomy is weakened: those under an age of majority and those people who are impaired by, for example, a mental disorder. In general, these people are protected from activities with significant consequences, if they are not in a position to make reasoned decisions themselves. This may involve the criminalization of under-age drinking, smoking, gambling and sexual activities. Such criminalization is rarely challenged.\n\nIn British law, a distinction between public and private acts was made in the Wolfenden report, which examined sexual activities (particularly homosexuality and prostitution). Some acts would effectively become legal within private settings, but illegal in public settings. The justification for this was the concept of shock or offensive to the public. Such a line was favoured by Joel Feinberg, who argued that it was a good reason in support of legislation if it effectively prevented \"serious offence\" to persons other than the actor. Philosophers such as Feinberg struggle to quantify the ideology behind the illegality of acts which in another setting would be acceptable (that acts themselves not causing harm, for example), for example nudity. Since such acts publicly are made illegal on the basis of shock, then whether to criminalise depends on a shifting body of public opinion, which varies from place to place and from time to time. The concept of \"insult\" rather than \"offensive\" may be more specific.\n\nCommon law does not often find an actor liable for omission – failing to do something required by the law. Where this has applied it has typically been in industrial regulation, in matters of social security or some personal regulated activity such as driving (for example, in the case of a hit and run). These form conditions placed upon operating in a particular manner and are thus understood in that context. There are few general duties in common law jurisdictions, although these do include the responsibility of a parent to safeguard their children, to a landowner to prevent offences being carried out there, and to someone creating a dangerous situation to attempt to limit that danger. Proponents of limited liability for omissions suggest that the wording for such a law would be vague, possibly involving \"reasonable\" care or action, and so would be hard to enforce. This would give prosecutors wide discretion, which may be opposed to justice. Morally, omission is viewed by many as a far lesser problem than act; compared to murder, allowing someone to die is seen as much smaller. A requirement to spend one's time and energy helping others would seem to contradict the autonomy many other laws aim to provide the individual with.\n\nOpponents point out these arguments fail to consider the harm that such omissions may cause, in contradiction to the harm principle many legal systems start out with. Life and physical integrity are often the highest priorities of a legal system. Difficulties in definition are in common with many other areas, theorists such as Feinburg point out. A non-burdensome rescue is likely to be less valuable than freedom of action. Limited liability is considered as article 223 of the French Penal Code, which criminalises: \"(1) a person who voluntarily neglects to prevent a serious crime of offense against that person, if that crime could be prevented without personal risk or risk to others; and (2) a person who voluntarily neglects to give, to a person in peril, assistance which could be rendered without personal risk or risk to others.\" This is common with several other European jurisdictions. Whilst open to the criticisms of vagueness and prosecutor discretion, it has not been seen as overly oppressive.\n\nWhen a state debates whether to respond to a source of injury by criminalising the behaviour that produces it, there are no pre-set criteria to apply in formulating social policy. There is no ontological reality to crime. The criminal justice system responds to a substantial number of events that do not produce significant hardship to individual citizens. Moreover, events which do cause serious injuries and perhaps should be dealt with as crimes, e.g. situations of corporate manslaughter, are either ignored or dealt with as civil matters.\n\nThe criminalization process defines and classifies behaviour. It broadcasts the laws so that no-one may have the excuse of ignorance, and disposes of those who will not obey. There are now more criminal laws and they are penetrating deeper into the social structures of modern societies. Crime control has become an industry, yet it remains ineffective in providing protection to all its citizens from harm. Such as it is, the process is made up of three components:\n\nPut in the most simple terms, ontology deals with or establishes the clear grounds for being. (Heidegger, Martin, Being and Time, introduction, referencing Plato's Parmenides.) In some of the traditional schools, such as those of the post-1688 English or Americans (many of the writings of the American Founding Fathers, but especially The Federalist) and their Dutch predecessors (see Kossmann, E. H. Political Thought in the Dutch Republic, 2004) ontology proper is deemed beyond the scope of legal thought, in accord with the modern distinction between society and state (which some consider based in the distinction the Romans made between themselves and their Italian allies, the socii, but not given the theoretical articulation we recognize today until emphasized by Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan. See state.) However, some classical theorists, such as Aristotle, in his Politics and Metaphysics, and to a lesser degree in his Topics, suggest that the distinction is at least problematic. One need consider no further than the claim that man is a political animal to see this is so.\n\nAs a political animal, man has come to see himself as possessed of rights, whether these are the Rights of Englishmen of old, or the universal human rights advocated vigorously toward establishment today through the matrix of commercialism. At least in the today dominant American model, deprivation of right amounts to injury (consider especially Justice Stevens dissenting opinion in Castle Rock v. Gonzales), and injury—so goes the prevailing theory—amounts, when coupled with requisite intent, in most cases, to crime, when it does not admit of civil redress. Thus, again in simple terms, and to the extent that human beings are indeed political beings, crime does seem to have an ontological basis. (For one approach to the question of criminal ontology, see \"Understanding Crime and Social Control in Market Economies: Looking Back and Moving Forward\" by Robert Bohm in Jeffrey Ian Ross, ed. Cutting the Edge: Current Perspectives in Radical/Critical Criminology and Criminal Justice. Westport, Conn: Praeger, 1998.) This, further, seems to hold if ontology itself is divided into political and trans- or supra- or meta- political ontology—i.e., what once was the realm of Christian theology. Of course, it does not matter whether that theology is Christian or belonging to some other apolitical belief. The point is that one may, with some justice, argue persuasively that being is divided. This need not, however, force the question of meta-political crimes. Our purposes here, in this article, are limited to the political. For the question in general see Ontology.\n\nBaker argues that only objective harms and other objective bad consequences (or actions in the case of inchoate and endangerment offenses) are prima facie criminalizable. By other bad consequences Baker means privacy violations and conduct that does not necessarily result in tangible harm, but does result in unwanted consequences. Baker argues that the privacy violations that result from being forced to receive unwanted obscene information in public places (exhibitionism) would amount to a sufficient bad consequence for the purposes of invoking the criminal law, but argues that proportionate punishment means that such conduct should only be punished with fines rather than jail terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45155414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45155414", "title": "Embodied bilingual language", "text": "Embodied bilingual language\n\nEmbodied bilingual language, also known as L2 embodiment, is the idea that people mentally simulate their actions, perceptions, and emotions when speaking and understanding a second language (L2) as with their first language (L1). It is closely related to embodied cognition and embodied language processing, both of which only refer to native language thinking and speaking. An example of embodied bilingual language would be situation in which a L1 English speaker learning Spanish as a second language hears the word \"rápido\" (\"fast\") in Spanish while taking notes and then proceeds to take notes more quickly.\n\nEmbodied bilingual language refers to the role second language learning plays in embodied cognition, which proposes that the way the body interacts with its environment influences the way a person thinks or creates mental images.\n\nEmbodied cognition theory assumes that embodiment occurs automatically and in a person’s native tongue. Embodied theories of language posit that word meaning is grounded in mental representations of action, perception, and emotion. Thus, L2 embodiment presupposes that embodied cognition takes place in a language that was learned later in life, outside of a child’s critical period of learning a language. In embodied bilingual language, a second language as well as the first language connects cognition with physical body movements.\n\nFor example, in first language (L1) embodiment, research shows that participants are quicker to comprehend sentences if they are simultaneously presented with pictures describing the actions in the sentence. Embodied language assumes that comprehension of language requires mental simulation, or imagination, of the subject and action of a sentence that is being processed and understood. Following L1 embodiment, L2 embodiment supposes that the understanding of sentences in L2 also require the same mental processes that underlie first language comprehension.\n\nResearch shows that embodiment is present in native language processing, and if embodiment occurs in first language processing, then embodiment might also occur in second language processing. How second language is embodied compared to first language is still a topic of debate. Currently, there are no known theories or models that address the presence or absence of embodiment in second language processing, but there are bilingual processing models that can lead to multiple hypotheses of embodiment effects in second language learning.\n\nThe revised hierarchical model (RHM) hypothesizes that lexical connections are stronger from L2 to L1 than from L1 to L2. In other words, translating a word from second language to first language occurs faster than vice versa. However, while translating from native language to second language might be delayed, the semantics, or word meanings of the information being conveyed, are maintained and understood by the translator.\n\nWhat this means in terms of embodied bilingual language is that there should be no difference in embodiment effects between first language processing and second language processing. Because the RHM model posits that semantic representations are shared across languages, meanings found in first language action, perception, and emotion will transfer equally into second language processing\n\nAccording to the BIA+ model of bilingual lexical processing, the brain activates both languages when recognizing a word in either language. Rather than selecting a single language, lexical access, or the sound-meaning connections of a language, is non-selective across languages. The BIA+ model suggests that orthographic representations activate first, followed by their associated phonological and semantic representations. The speeds of these activations depend on frequency of use of the language. Given this proposition, if second language is used less often than first language, second language activation occurs more slowly than first language activation. However, the BIA+ model argues that these differences in activation time are minuscule.\n\nSimilar to the RHM, the BIA+ model says that while there are slight differences in time when accessing word meanings in both first and second languages, the semantic representations are maintained. Thus, in terms of embodiment, the BIA+ model would suggest that embodiment effects, too, are maintained across native and second language processing.\n\nThe sense model takes a different position from the previously stated models. The sense model supposes that native language words are associated with a greater number of semantic senses than second language words and argues for partially overlapping distributed semantic representations for L1 and L2 words. As a result, the sense model argues that semantic representations in second language are \"less rich\" than in those in the native language. If this is the case in embodied bilingual language, then embodiment in second language processing may be minimal or even completely lacking.\n\nEmbodied bilingual processing is rooted in motor processing because research shows that the motor cortex activates during language processing. In first language processing, for example, leg-related words like \"kick\" and \"run\" stimulate the part of the motor cortex that controls leg motions. This illustrates that language describing motor actions activates motor systems in the brain, but only when the words provide literal meaning as opposed to figurative meaning. Following L1 embodiment, L2 embodiment assumes that the words \"punch\" and \"throw\" in a second language will also stimulate the same parts of the motor cortex as does first language words. In essence, language that describes motor actions activates motor systems in the brain. If this holds true for all languages, then the processing that occurs when understanding and using a second language must also activate motor regions of the brain, just as native language processing does.\n\nResearch shows that both first and second language action words rely on the motor cortex for language processing, strengthening the claim that the motor cortex is necessary for action language processing. This research suggests that action language processing has direct access to semantic motor representations in both languages. This results from second language motor systems calling on and activating information from first language motor systems. Initially, the semantic representations stimulated by the first language are stronger than that of the second language. But with more experience and exposure to the second language, sensorimotor involvement and second language comprehension becomes stronger. The more often a second language is used, the stronger the neural networks and associations become, and thus some researchers argue that semantic representations in second language become just as prominent as for first language.\n\nGrounded or embodied cognition is a theoretical view that assumes knowledge is represented in the mind as modal representations, which are memories of perceptual, motor, and affective experiences. Perceptual features include orientation, location, visibility conditions, motion, movement direction, and action direction. All of these perceptual features are necessary for comprehending language. If this is true for first language processing, then this must also be true for second language processing.\n\nThese perceptual features occur when imagining an action, recalling an action, and observing various sensory information. In addition to motor brain areas, somatosensory areas, which deal with touch and physical awareness, are also activated. This sensory information contributes to formulating the mental simulation, or imagination of the action being described, that necessitates language comprehension\n\nFinally, research shows that embodied bilingual language processing not only activates the perceptual simulation of first and second language meanings, but this activation is automatic. Second language users automatically stimulate word meanings in a detailed perceptual fashion. Rather than consciously using strategies for language comprehension, bilinguals automatically perceive and construct meaning.\n\nEmbodied bilingual language also assumes that comprehension of language activates parts of the brain that correspond with emotion. Research provides evidence that emotion words are embedded in a rich semantic network. Given this information, emotion is better perceived in a first language because linguistic development coincides with conceptual development and development of emotional regulation systems. Linguistic conditioning spreads to phonologically and semantically related words of the same language, but not to translation equivalents of another language.\n\nSome researchers have argued for disembodied cognition when it comes to processing emotion. The idea of disembodied cognition comes from research, which shows that less emotion is shown by a bilingual person when using a second language. This may illustrate that less emotionality is attached to second language, which then leads to the reduction of biases such as decision bias or framing bias. One study examining the anxiety effects of L2 words such as \"death\" found that those with lower levels of proficiency in L2 were more likely than L1 speakers to experience feelings of anxiety. Because the emotion is less interpreted during second language processing, speakers will be more likely to ignore or fail to comprehend the emotion of a situation when making decisions or analyzing situations. However, others have found that such and similar results may be due not so much to an emotions-based explanation, as the fact that speaking in a second/foreign language seems to release the speaker from the social norms, limitations and political correctness imposed by their mother tongue.\n\nThe theory of disembodied cognition posits that because emotions are not as clearly recognized in a second language versus a first language, emotions will not affect and bias a person who is using a second language as much as using a first language. This lack of comprehension of emotion provides evidence for the sense model, which hypothesizes that embodied cognition fails to be present in second language processing.\n"}
{"id": "31768142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31768142", "title": "Enxet language", "text": "Enxet language\n\nEnxet, also known as \"Lengua Ser,\" \"Lengua,\" \"Vowak,\" and \"Enhlit\" is one of twenty languages spoken by the Gran Chaco people of South America. Enxet is isolated to Amerindians of Paraguay and belongs to the Mascoian (Demonym \"Mascoian\") language family. Once a dialect of the broader language lengua, Enxet (Southern Lengua) and Enhlet (Northern Lengua) diverged as extensive differences between the two were realized.\n\nEnxet belongs to the Mascoian language family, spoken primarily by Native Americans in the Paraguayan region of the South American Gran Chaco. The South Amerindians living in this region are referred to as Guaycuru.\n\nEnxet and Enhlet were once considered dialects of Lengua. They were dubbed \"Southern Lengua\" and \"Northern Lengua,\" respectively.\n\nThe Enxet language was first documented in the late 19th century by explorers from Spain.\n\nEnxet contains only three phonemic vowel qualities /e,a,o/, each requiring a certain length such to maximize distinction. Bilingual speakers of Spanish and Enxet purportedly utilize shorter spacing between vowels when speaking the latter compared to the former.\n\nThe region occupied by the Enxet people is the subject of an ongoing legal dispute with the state of Paraguay.\n\nThe Enxet language and people are of interest to Anglican missionaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "607519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607519", "title": "Evolutionary anthropology", "text": "Evolutionary anthropology\n\nEvolutionary anthropology is the interdisciplinary study of the evolution of human physiology and human behaviour and the relation between hominids and non-hominid primates. Evolutionary anthropology is based in natural science and social science. Various fields and disciplines of evolutionary anthropology are:\n\n\nEvolutionary anthropology is concerned with both biological and cultural evolution of humans, past and present. It is based on a scientific approach, and brings together fields such as archaeology, behavioral ecology, psychology, primatology, and genetics. It is a dynamic and interdisciplinary field, drawing on many lines of evidence to understand the human experience, past and present.\n\nStudies of biological evolution generally concern the evolution of the human form. Cultural evolution involves the study of cultural change over time and space and frequently incorporate cultural transmission models. Note that cultural evolution is not the same as biological evolution, and that human culture involves the transmission of cultural information, which behaves in ways quite distinct from human biology and genetics. The study of cultural change is increasingly performed through cladistics and genetic models.\n\n"}
{"id": "46433121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46433121", "title": "French Guatemalan", "text": "French Guatemalan\n\nA French Guatemalan is a citizen of Guatemala who has French ancestry. Guatemalans of French descent make up the third largest European descended group in Guatemala, after the German Guatemalans and Spanish Guatemalans. According to the French embassy, as of 31 December 2010, there are 803 French citizens in Guatemala.\n\nThe history of the French in Guatemala is divided into three periods of migratory waves.\n\nAfter the French Revolution, capitalists and entrepreneurs came to create coffee plantations in several countries of America, in Guatemala spanned throughout the altiplano. Between 1789 and 1917, European policies fought for or against of the principles of 1789. In this regard France bring to the vocabulary programs, and liberal parties, the radical democratic most of the world and also in Guatemala. France brought influence to the next revolutionary movements in Hispanic America.\n\nFrench former soldiers of the Napoleonic War and South American independence wars (Nicolas Raoul, Isidoro Saget, Henri Terralonge, Aluard, Courbal, Duplessis, Gibourdel and Goudot) offered their services during the independence wars. Initial diplomatic contact between France and Central America began in 1827; full diplomatic relations were established in 1830. Later some French politicians moved to Guatemala City during the wars between liberals and conservatives. When the Federal Republic of Central America was divided, some French migrated to Costa Rica and Nicaragua although the majority remained in Guatemala. Since then began to arrive politicians, scientists, artists, builders, traders, doctors, and singers plus some families, many of them was married with Guatemalan women, which caused an increase of Guatemalan people of French descent (both direct and mixed).\n\nTowards a census in 1900, there were 8,000 French people in Mesoamerica, Three quarters parts in Mexico and nearly a fifth in Guatemala. With the arrival of the Guatemalan presidency of General José María Reina Barrios, who was educated in Paris, began a revival of diplomatic relations between France and Central America. In 1920, after the triumph of the Unionist movement, is founded in Guatemala City the Alliance Francaise, for initiative of several Guatemalan families of French origin.\n\nMany Guatemalans of French descent still preserve the French language and contumbres and traditions of France. A agran majority belongs to the Catholic religion, there are minorities Protestant, Jews and muslims. Over 800 French people are estimated to live in Guatemala, making it the third largest French community in Central America, behind Panama and Costa Rica.\n\n\nThe French Alliance (in French \"alliance française\") and the French Lycée Jules Verne are dedicated to the promotion of French culture and Francophone in Guatemala in its various expressions: Performing arts (music, theater, dance), visual arts (exhibitions, performances, film), lectures, discussions (literature, debates) and training (workshops residences).\n\nThe French Embassy in Guatemala is responsible for maintaining both cultural and diplomatic relations between France and Guatemala. The French Embassy in Guatemala provides bursaries and scholarships for France, also report information of Guatemala ain France and in Guatemala report information of France. The current French ambassador to Guatemala is Philippe Franc.\n\nThere are several associations:\n\nLycée Français Jules Verne, a French international school, is located in Fraijanes, Guatemala.\n\n"}
{"id": "17338276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17338276", "title": "Greeks in Austria", "text": "Greeks in Austria\n\nThe Greek community in Austria numbers between 5,000 and 18,000 people. They are located all around the country but the main community is located in Vienna.\n\nContacts between the Greeks and the Austrians can be led back in the aristocracy of the Middle Ages. Great economic importance and social acknowledgment attained the Greeks in Austria in the 19th Century.\n\nThe Greek Johannes Theodat opened on January, 17th 1685 Vienna's first coffee house. In 1700 four Greeks had the privilege to serve coffee in public.\n\nIn the 18th century, Vienna was the centre of Greek diaspora where persons like Rigas Feraios, Anthimos Gazis, Neophytos Doukas and the Ypsilantis family prepared the Greek revolution. The first Greek newspaper was printed there and the Hellenic National School in Vienna is today the oldest such in the world that has remained continuously in operation. In 20th century Austria (and especially Graz and Linz) was a popular destination for Greek students.\n\nThe Greek-Austrian magnate Georgios Sinas (father of Simon Sinas) invited the Danish architect Theophil Hansen who worked in Athens (and had designed there major public buildings like the Zappeion and the Academy of Athens) to design for him some new buildings for his companies in Austria. Other Greek Austrians like Nikolaus Dumba and Ignaz von Ephrussi also gave Hansen contracts for buildings in the \"Classical Greek style\" and the \"Gräzisierter-Neorennaissance-Stil\". After Works like the Palais Ephrussi and the Palais Dumba Hansen was famous and build many other public buildings in Austria like the Parliament of Austria and the Musikverein.\n\nIn the former Greek Quarter of Vienna at the \"Fleischmarkt\" there are the two historical Greek-Orthodox parishes (St George and Holy Trinity). A traditional Austrian Restaurant there is called Griechenbeisl (\"Greek Tavern\", because of its Greek visitors since the 18th century) and a street \"Griechengasse\" (Greek Lane\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1619668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619668", "title": "Gurage people", "text": "Gurage people\n\nThe Guraghe people () are an Ethiopian Semitic-speaking ethnic group inhabiting Ethiopia. According to the 2007 national census, its population is 3,567,377 people, of whom 256,737 are urban dwellers. This is 2.5% of the total population of Ethiopia, or 18.33% of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region (SNNPR). The Gurage people traditionally inhabit a fertile, semi-mountainous region in southwest Ethiopia, about 125 kilometers southwest of Addis Ababa, bordering the Awash River in the north, the Gibe River (a tributary of the Omo River) to the southwest, and Lake Zway in the east. In addition, according to the 2007 Ethiopian national census the Gurage can also be found in large numbers in Addis Ababa, Oromia Region, Dire Dawa, Harari Region, Somali Region, Amhara Region, Gambela Region, Benishangul-Gumuz Region, and Tigray Region.\n\nThe languages spoken by the Guraghe are known as the Gurage languages. The variations among these languages are used to group the Guraghe people into three dialectically varied subgroups: Northern, Eastern and Western. However, the largest group within the Eastern subgroup, known as the Silt'e, identify foremost as Muslims. In 2000, the Silt'e, refusing to identify as Gurage, voted overwhelmingly for the establishment of a separate special administrative unit within SNNPR by the EPRDF government.\n\nAccording to the historian Paul B. Henze, their origins are explained by traditions of a military expedition to the south during the last years of the Kingdom of Aksum, which left military colonies that eventually became isolated from both northern Ethiopia and each other. However other historians have raised the issue of the complexity of Gurage Peoples if viewed as a singular group, for example Ulrich Braukhamper states that the Gurage East people may have been an extension of the ancient Harla people. Indeed, there is evidence that Harla architecture may have influenced old buildings (pre-16th c.) found near Harar (eastern Ethiopia), and the Gurage East group often cite kinship with Harare (Hararghe) peoples in the distant past. Braukhamper also states King Amda Seyon ordered Eritrean troops to be sent to mountainous regions in Gurage (named Gerege), which eventually became a permanent settlement. In addition to Amda Seyon's military settlement there, the permanence of Abyssinian presence in Gurage is documented during his descendants Zara Yacob and Dawit II's reigns. Braukhamper also notes that some Amhara troops and their families likely fled areas in modern-day Gondar and Gojjam into the Gurage region during the Ethiopian-Adal War of the 1530s, since Abyssinia was drastically outgunned by the Adal troops which received supplies and arms from the Ottoman Empire. Thus, historically, Gurage peoples may be a complex mixture of Abyssinian, Harla, and other groups which migrated and settled in that region for differing reasons.\n\nThe majority of the inhabitants of the Gurage Zone were reported as Muslim, with 51.02% of the population reporting that belief, while 41.91% practiced Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity, 5.79% were Protestants, and 1.12% Catholic.\nAccording to the 1994 Ethiopian census, self-identifying Gurage comprise about 4.3% of Ethiopia's population, or about 3 million people. The populations of Gurage people are not exactly known because approximately half of the population live outside of the Gurage zone and many believe that the Gurage people may have the third largest populations, next to the Oromo's and the Amhara's.\n\nThe Gurage live a sedentary life based on agriculture, involving a complex system of crop rotation and transplanting. Gurage people are known as hard workers and as a model of good work culture in the whole Ethiopia.Ensete is the main staple food, but other cash crops are grown, which include coffee and khat, both traditional stimulants. Animal husbandry is practiced, but mainly for milk supply and dung. Other foods consumed include green cabbage, cheese, butter, and roasted grains, with meat consumption being very limited (also used in rituals or ceremonies).\n\nThe Gurage, the writer Nega Mezlekia notes, \"have earned a reputation as skilled traders\". One example of an enterprising Gurage is Tekke, who Nathaniel T. Kenney described as \"an Ethiopian Horatio Alger, Jr.\": \"He began his career selling old bottles and tin cans; the Emperor [Haile Selassie] recently rewarded his achievement in creating his plantation by calling him to Addis Ababa and decorating him.\"\n\nThe principal crop of the Gurage is ensete (also enset, ensete edulis, äsät or \"false banana plant\"). This has a massive stem that grows underground and is involved in every aspect of Gurage life. It has a place in everyday interactions among community members as well as specific roles in rituals. For example: the ritual uses of Ensete include wrapping a corpse after death with the fronds and tying off the umbilical cord after birth with an ensete fiber; the practical uses include wrapping goods and fireproofing thatch. Ensete is also exchanged as part of a variety of social interactions, and used as a recompense for services rendered.\n\nEnsete can be prepared in a variety of ways. A normal Gurage diet consists primarily of kocho, a thick bread made from ensete, and is supplemented by cabbage, cheese, butter and grains. Meat is not consumed on a regular basis, but usually eaten when an animal is sacrificed during a ritual or ceremonial event. The Gurage pound the root of the Ensete to extract the edible substance, then place it in deep pits between the rows of ensete plants in the field. It ferments in the pit, which makes it more palatable. It can be stored for up to several years in this fashion, and the Gurage typically retain large surpluses of ensete as a protection against famine. The resulting paste is used to make porridge and bread. The only way to eat ensete is to make into a paste.\n\nIn addition to ensete, a few cash crops are maintained (notably coffee and khat) and livestock is raised (mainly for milk and fertilizer). Some Gurage also plant teff and eat injera (which the Gurage also call injera).\n\nThe Gurage raise zebu. These cattle are primarily kept for their butter, and a typical Gurage household has a large quantity of spiced butter aging in clay pots hung from the walls of their huts. Butter is believed to be medicinal, and the Gurage often take it internally or use it a lotion or poultice. A Gurage proverb states that \"A sickness that has the upper hand over butter is destined for death.\" Different species of ensete are also eaten to alleviate illness.\n\nThe Gurage regard overeating as coarse and vulgar, and regard it as poor etiquette to eat all of the ensete that a host passes around to guests. It is considered polite to leave at least some ensete bread even after a very small portion is passed around.\n\nIt is typically expected that a Gurage will extend hospitality to their neighbors and kinfolk in dispensing ensete freely to them. However, Gurage often hoard extra food and eat it secretly to avoid having to share it.\n\nThe Gurage in rural highland areas centre their lives on the cultivation of their staple crop Ensete. Kocho is made by shaping the ensete paste to a thick circle and wrapping it in a thin layer of ensete leaves. Its baked in a small pit with coals. Sometimes the paste is just cooked over a griddle. Kitfo a minced raw beef mixed with butter and spicy pepper is commonly attributed to the Gurage.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47646", "title": "Hippie", "text": "Hippie\n\nA hippie (sometimes spelled hippy) is a member of the counterculture of the 1960s, originally a youth movement that began in the United States during the mid-1960s and spread to other countries around the world. The word \"hippie\" came from \"hipster\" and used to describe beatniks who moved into New York City's Greenwich Village and San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury district. The term \"hippie\" first found popularity in San Francisco with Herb Caen, who was a journalist for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\".\n\nThe origins of the terms \"hip\" and \"hep\" are uncertain. By the 1940s, both had become part of African American jive slang and meant \"sophisticated; currently fashionable; fully up-to-date\". The Beats adopted the term \"hip\", and early hippies inherited the language and countercultural values of the Beat Generation. Hippies created their own communities, listened to psychedelic music, embraced the sexual revolution, and many used drugs such as marijuana, LSD, peyote and psilocybin mushrooms to explore altered states of consciousness.\n\nIn 1967, the Human Be-In in Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, popularized hippie culture, leading to the Summer of Love on the West Coast of the United States, and the 1969 Woodstock Festival on the East Coast. Hippies in Mexico, known as \"jipitecas\", formed \"La Onda\" and gathered at Avándaro, while in New Zealand, nomadic housetruckers practiced alternative lifestyles and promoted sustainable energy at Nambassa. In the United Kingdom in 1970, many gathered at the gigantic Isle of Wight Festival with a crowd of around 400,000 people. In later years, mobile \"peace convoys\" of New Age travelers made summer pilgrimages to free music festivals at Stonehenge and elsewhere. In Australia, hippies gathered at Nimbin for the 1973 Aquarius Festival and the annual Cannabis Law Reform Rally or MardiGrass. \"\"Piedra Roja\" Festival\", a major hippie event in Chile, was held in 1970. Hippie and psychedelic culture influenced 1960s and early 1970s young culture in Iron Curtain countries in Eastern Europe (see \"Mánička\").\n\nHippie fashion and values had a major effect on culture, influencing popular music, television, film, literature, and the arts. Since the 1960s, mainstream society has assimilated many aspects of hippie culture. The religious and cultural diversity the hippies espoused has gained widespread acceptance, and Eastern philosophy and spiritual concepts have reached a larger audience.\n\nLexicographer Jesse Sheidlower, the principal American editor of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", argues that the terms \"hipster\" and \"hippie\" derive from the word \"hip\", whose origins are unknown. The word \"hip\" in the sense of \"aware, in the know\" is first attested in a 1902 cartoon by Tad Dorgan, and first appeared in prose in a 1904 novel by George Vere Hobart (1867–1926), \"Jim Hickey: A Story of the One-Night Stands\", where an African-American character uses the slang phrase \"Are you hip?\"\n\nThe term \"hipster\" was coined by Harry Gibson in 1944. By the 1940s, the terms \"hip\", \"hep\" and \"hepcat\" were popular in Harlem jazz slang, although \"hep\" eventually came to denote an inferior status to \"hip\".\nIn Greenwich Village in the early 1960s, New York City, young counterculture advocates were named \"hips\" because they were considered \"in the know\" or \"cool\", as opposed to being \"square\". In the April 27, 1961 issue of The Village Voice, \"An open letter to JFK & Fidel Castro\", Norman Mailer utilizes the term hippies, in questioning JFK's behavior. In a 1961 essay, Kenneth Rexroth used both the terms \"hipster\" and \"hippies\" to refer to young people participating in black American or Beatnik nightlife. According to Malcolm X's 1964 autobiography, the word \"hippie\" in 1940s Harlem had been used to describe a specific type of white man who \"acted more Negro than Negroes\". Andrew Loog Oldham refers to \"all the Chicago hippies,\" seemingly in reference to black blues/R&B musicians, in his rear sleeve notes to the 1965 LP \"The Rolling Stones, Now!\"\n\nThe word hippie was also used in reference to Philadelphia in at least two popular songs in 1963: South Street by The Orlons, and You Can't Sit Down by The Dovells. In both songs, the term is applied to residents of Philadelphia's South Street.\n\nAlthough the word \"hippies\" made other isolated appearances in print during the early 1960s, the first use of the term on the West Coast appeared in the article \"A New Paradise for Beatniks\" (in the \"San Francisco Examiner\", issue of September 5, 1965) by San Francisco journalist Michael Fallon. In that article, Fallon wrote about the Blue Unicorn Cafe (coffeehouse) (located at 1927 Hayes Street in the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco), using the term \"hippie\" to refer to the new generation of beatniks who had moved from North Beach into the Haight-Ashbury district. \"New York Times\" editor and usage writer Theodore M. Bernstein said the paper changed the spelling from \"hippy\" to \"hippie\" to avoid the ambiguous description of clothing as \"hippy fashions\".\n\nA July 1968 \"Time\" magazine study on hippie philosophy credited the foundation of the hippie movement with historical precedent as far back as the sadhu of India, the spiritual seekers who had renounced the world by taking \"Sannyas\". Even the counterculture of the Ancient Greeks, espoused by philosophers like Diogenes of Sinope and the cynics were also early forms of hippie culture. It also named as notable influences the religious and spiritual teachings of Henry David Thoreau, Hillel the Elder, Jesus, Buddha, St. Francis of Assisi, Gandhi, and J.R.R. Tolkien.\n\nThe first signs of modern \"proto-hippies\" emerged in fin de siècle Europe. Between 1896 and 1908, a German youth movement arose as a countercultural reaction to the organized social and cultural clubs that centered around German folk music. Known as \"Der Wandervogel\" (\"wandering bird\"), the hippie movement opposed the formality of traditional German clubs, instead emphasizing amateur music and singing, creative dress, and communal outings involving hiking and camping. Inspired by the works of Friedrich Nietzsche, Goethe, Hermann Hesse, and Eduard Baltzer, Wandervogel attracted thousands of young Germans who rejected the rapid trend toward urbanization and yearned for the pagan, back-to-nature spiritual life of their ancestors. During the first several decades of the 20th century, Germans settled around the United States, bringing the values of the Wandervogel with them. Some opened the first health food stores, and many moved to southern California where they could practice an alternative lifestyle in a warm climate. Over time, young Americans adopted the beliefs and practices of the new immigrants. One group, called the \"Nature Boys\", took to the California desert and raised organic food, espousing a back-to-nature lifestyle like the Wandervogel. Songwriter eden ahbez wrote a hit song called \"Nature Boy\" inspired by Robert Bootzin (Gypsy Boots), who helped popularize health-consciousness, yoga, and organic food in the United States.\nLike Wandervogel, the hippie movement in the United States began as a youth movement. Composed mostly of white teenagers and young adults between 15 and 25 years old, hippies inherited a tradition of cultural dissent from bohemians and beatniks of the Beat Generation in the late 1950s. Beats like Allen Ginsberg crossed over from the beat movement and became fixtures of the burgeoning hippie and anti-war movements. By 1965, hippies had become an established social group in the U.S., and the movement eventually expanded to other countries, extending as far as the United Kingdom and Europe, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Japan, Mexico, and Brazil. The hippie ethos influenced The Beatles and others in the United Kingdom and other parts of Europe, and they in turn influenced their American counterparts. Hippie culture spread worldwide through a fusion of rock music, folk, blues, and psychedelic rock; it also found expression in literature, the dramatic arts, fashion, and the visual arts, including film, posters advertising rock concerts, and album covers. In 1968, self-described hippies represented just under 0.2% of the U.S. population and dwindled away by mid-1970s.\n\nAlong with the New Left and the Civil Rights Movement, the hippie movement was one of three dissenting groups of the 1960s counterculture. Hippies rejected established institutions, criticized middle class values, opposed nuclear weapons and the Vietnam War, embraced aspects of Eastern philosophy, championed sexual liberation, were often vegetarian and eco-friendly, promoted the use of psychedelic drugs which they believed expanded one's consciousness, and created intentional communities or communes. They used alternative arts, street theatre, folk music, and psychedelic rock as a part of their lifestyle and as a way of expressing their feelings, their protests and their vision of the world and life. Hippies opposed political and social orthodoxy, choosing a gentle and nondoctrinaire ideology that favored peace, love and personal freedom, expressed for example in The Beatles' song \"All You Need is Love\". Hippies perceived the dominant culture as a corrupt, monolithic entity that exercised undue power over their lives, calling this culture \"The Establishment\", \"Big Brother\", or \"The Man\". Noting that they were \"seekers of meaning and value\", scholars like Timothy Miller have described hippies as a new religious movement.\n\nDuring the late 1950s and early 1960s, novelist Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters lived communally in California. Members included Beat Generation hero Neal Cassady, Ken Babbs, Carolyn Adams (aka Mountain Girl/Carolyn Garcia), Stewart Brand, Del Close, Paul Foster, George Walker, Sandy Lehmann-Haupt and others. Their early escapades were documented in Tom Wolfe's book \"The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test\". With Cassady at the wheel of a school bus named Further, the Merry Pranksters traveled across the United States to celebrate the publication of Kesey's novel \"Sometimes a Great Notion\" and to visit the 1964 World's Fair in New York City. The Merry Pranksters were known for using cannabis, amphetamine, and LSD, and during their journey they \"turned on\" many people to these drugs. The Merry Pranksters filmed and audio taped their bus trips, creating an immersive multimedia experience that would later be presented to the public in the form of festivals and concerts. The Grateful Dead wrote a song about the Merry Pranksters' bus trips called \"That's It for the Other One\". In 1961, Vito Paulekas and his wife Szou established in Hollywood a clothing boutique which was credited with being one of the first to introduce \"hippie\" fashions.\n\nDuring this period Greenwich Village in New York City and Berkeley, California anchored the American folk music circuit. Berkeley's two coffee houses, the Cabale Creamery and the Jabberwock, sponsored performances by folk music artists in a beat setting. In April 1963, Chandler A. Laughlin III, co-founder of the Cabale Creamery, established a kind of tribal, family identity among approximately fifty people who attended a traditional, all-night Native American peyote ceremony in a rural setting. This ceremony combined a psychedelic experience with traditional Native American spiritual values; these people went on to sponsor a unique genre of musical expression and performance at the Red Dog Saloon in the isolated, old-time mining town of Virginia City, Nevada.\n\nDuring the summer of 1965, Laughlin recruited much of the original talent that led to a unique amalgam of traditional folk music and the developing psychedelic rock scene. He and his cohorts created what became known as \"The Red Dog Experience\", featuring previously unknown musical acts—Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane, Big Brother and the Holding Company, Quicksilver Messenger Service, The Charlatans, and others—who played in the completely refurbished, intimate setting of Virginia City's Red Dog Saloon. There was no clear delineation between \"performers\" and \"audience\" in \"The Red Dog Experience\", during which music, psychedelic experimentation, a unique sense of personal style and Bill Ham's first primitive light shows combined to create a new sense of community. Laughlin and George Hunter of the Charlatans were true \"proto-hippies\", with their long hair, boots and outrageous clothing of 19th-century American (and Native American) heritage. LSD manufacturer Owsley Stanley lived in Berkeley during 1965 and provided much of the LSD that became a seminal part of the \"Red Dog Experience\", the early evolution of psychedelic rock and budding hippie culture. At the Red Dog Saloon, The Charlatans were the first psychedelic rock band to play live (albeit unintentionally) loaded on LSD.\n\nWhen they returned to San Francisco, Red Dog participants Luria Castell, Ellen Harman and Alton Kelley created a collective called \"The Family Dog.\" Modeled on their Red Dog experiences, on October 16, 1965, the Family Dog hosted \"A Tribute to Dr. Strange\" at Longshoreman's Hall. Attended by approximately 1,000 of the Bay Area's original \"hippies\", this was San Francisco's first psychedelic rock performance, costumed dance and light show, featuring Jefferson Airplane, The Great Society and The Marbles. Two other events followed before year's end, one at California Hall and one at the Matrix. After the first three Family Dog events, a much larger psychedelic event occurred at San Francisco's Longshoreman's Hall. Called \"The Trips Festival\", it took place on January 21 – 23, 1966, and was organized by Stewart Brand, Ken Kesey, Owsley Stanley and others. Ten thousand people attended this sold-out event, with a thousand more turned away each night. On Saturday January 22, the Grateful Dead and Big Brother and the Holding Company came on stage, and 6,000 people arrived to imbibe punch spiked with LSD and to witness one of the first fully developed light shows of the era.\n\nBy February 1966, the Family Dog became Family Dog Productions under organizer Chet Helms, promoting happenings at the Avalon Ballroom and the Fillmore Auditorium in initial cooperation with Bill Graham. The Avalon Ballroom, the Fillmore Auditorium and other venues provided settings where participants could partake of the full psychedelic music experience. Bill Ham, who had pioneered the original Red Dog light shows, perfected his art of liquid light projection, which combined light shows and film projection and became synonymous with the San Francisco ballroom experience. The sense of style and costume that began at the Red Dog Saloon flourished when San Francisco's Fox Theater went out of business and hippies bought up its costume stock, reveling in the freedom to dress up for weekly musical performances at their favorite ballrooms. As \"San Francisco Chronicle\" music columnist Ralph J. Gleason put it, \"They danced all night long, orgiastic, spontaneous and completely free form.\"\n\nSome of the earliest San Francisco hippies were former students at San Francisco State College who became intrigued by the developing psychedelic hippie music scene. These students joined the bands they loved, living communally in the large, inexpensive Victorian apartments in the Haight-Ashbury. Young Americans around the country began moving to San Francisco, and by June 1966, around 15,000 hippies had moved into the Haight. The Charlatans, Jefferson Airplane, Big Brother and the Holding Company, and the Grateful Dead all moved to San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury neighborhood during this period. Activity centered around the Diggers, a guerrilla street theatre group that combined spontaneous street theatre, anarchistic action, and art happenings in their agenda to create a \"free city\". By late 1966, the Diggers opened free stores which simply gave away their stock, provided free food, distributed free drugs, gave away money, organized free music concerts, and performed works of political art.\n\nOn October 6, 1966, the state of California declared LSD a controlled substance, which made the drug illegal. In response to the criminalization of psychedelics, San Francisco hippies staged a gathering in the Golden Gate Park panhandle, called the Love Pageant Rally, attracting an estimated 700–800 people. As explained by Allan Cohen, co-founder of the \"San Francisco Oracle\", the purpose of the rally was twofold: to draw attention to the fact that LSD had just been made illegal—and to demonstrate that people who used LSD were not criminals, nor were they mentally ill. The Grateful Dead played, and some sources claim that LSD was consumed at the rally. According to Cohen, those who took LSD \"were not guilty of using illegal substances...We were celebrating transcendental consciousness, the beauty of the universe, the beauty of being.\"\n\nThe Sunset Strip curfew riots, also known as the \"hippie riots\", were a series of early counterculture-era clashes that took place between police and young people on the Sunset Strip in Hollywood, California, in 1966 and continuing on and off through the early 1970s. In 1966, annoyed residents and business owners in the district had encouraged the passage of strict (10:00 p.m.) curfew and loitering laws to reduce the traffic congestion resulting from crowds of young club patrons. This was perceived by young, local rock music fans as an infringement on their civil rights, and on Saturday, November 12, 1966, fliers were distributed along the Strip inviting people to demonstrate later that day. Hours before the protest one of L.A's rock 'n' roll radio stations announced there would be a rally at Pandora's Box, a club at the corner of Sunset Boulevard and Crescent Heights, and cautioned people to tread carefully. The \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that as many as 1,000 youthful demonstrators, including such celebrities as Jack Nicholson and Peter Fonda (who was afterward handcuffed by police), erupted in protest against the perceived repressive enforcement of these recently invoked curfew laws. This incident provided the basis for the 1967 low-budget teen exploitation film \"Riot on Sunset Strip\", and inspired multiple songs including the famous Buffalo Springfield song \"For What It's Worth\".\n\nOn January 14, 1967, the outdoor Human Be-In organized by Michael Bowen helped to popularize hippie culture across the United States, with 20,000 hippies gathering in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park. On March 26, Lou Reed, Edie Sedgwick and 10,000 hippies came together in Manhattan for the Central Park Be-In on Easter Sunday. The Monterey Pop Festival from June 16 to June 18 introduced the rock music of the counterculture to a wide audience and marked the start of the \"Summer of Love\". Scott McKenzie's rendition of John Phillips' song, \"San Francisco\", became a hit in the United States and Europe. The lyrics, \"If you're going to San Francisco, be sure to wear some flowers in your hair\", inspired thousands of young people from all over the world to travel to San Francisco, sometimes wearing flowers in their hair and distributing flowers to passersby, earning them the name, \"Flower Children\". Bands like the Grateful Dead, Big Brother and the Holding Company (with Janis Joplin), and Jefferson Airplane lived in the Haight.\n\nIn June 1967, Herb Caen was approached by \"a distinguished magazine\" to write about why hippies were attracted to San Francisco. He declined the assignment but interviewed hippies in the Haight for his own newspaper column in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". Caen determined that, \"Except in their music, they couldn't care less about the approval of the straight world.\" Caen himself felt that the city of San Francisco was so straight that it provided a visible contrast with hippie culture. On July 7, \"Time\" magazine featured a cover story entitled, \"The Hippies: The Philosophy of a Subculture.\" The article described the guidelines of the hippie code: \"Do your own thing, wherever you have to do it and whenever you want. Drop out. Leave society as you have known it. Leave it utterly. Blow the mind of every straight person you can reach. Turn them on, if not to drugs, then to beauty, love, honesty, fun.\" It is estimated that around 100,000 people traveled to San Francisco in the summer of 1967. The media was right behind them, casting a spotlight on the Haight-Ashbury district and popularizing the \"hippie\" label. With this increased attention, hippies found support for their ideals of love and peace but were also criticized for their anti-work, pro-drug, and permissive ethos.\n\nAt this point, The Beatles had released their groundbreaking album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" which was quickly embraced by the hippie movement with its colorful psychedelic sonic imagery.\n\nBy the end of the summer, the Haight-Ashbury scene had deteriorated. The incessant media coverage led the Diggers to declare the \"death\" of the hippie with a parade. According to poet Susan 'Stormi' Chambless, the hippies buried an effigy of a hippie in the Panhandle to demonstrate the end of his/her reign. Haight-Ashbury could not accommodate the influx of crowds (mostly naive youngsters) with no place to live. Many took to living on the street, panhandling and drug-dealing. There were problems with malnourishment, disease, and drug addiction. Crime and violence skyrocketed. None of these trends reflected what the hippies had envisioned. By the end of 1967, many of the hippies and musicians who initiated the Summer of Love had moved on. Beatle George Harrison had once visited Haight-Ashbury and found it to be just a haven for dropouts, inspiring him to give up LSD. Misgivings about the hippie culture, particularly with regard to drug abuse and lenient morality, fueled the moral panics of the late 1960s.\n\nBy 1968, hippie-influenced fashions were beginning to take off in the mainstream, especially for youths and younger adults of the populous \"Baby Boomer\" generation, many of whom may have aspired to emulate the hardcore movements now living in tribalistic communes, but had no overt connections to them. This was noticed not only in terms of clothes and also longer hair for men, but also in music, film, art, and literature, and not just in the US, but around the world. Eugene McCarthy's brief presidential campaign successfully persuaded a significant minority of young adults to \"get clean for Gene\" by shaving their beards or wearing longer skirts; however the \"Clean Genes\" had little impact on the popular image in the media spotlight, of the hirsute hippy adorned in beads, feathers, flowers and bells.\n\nA sign of this was the visibility that the hippie subculture gained in various mainstream and underground media. Hippie exploitation films are 1960s exploitation films about the hippie counterculture with stereotypical situations associated with the movement such as cannabis and LSD use, sex and wild psychedelic parties. Examples include \"The Love-ins\", \"Psych-Out\", \"The Trip\", and \"Wild in the Streets\". Other more serious and more critically acclaimed films about the hippie counterculture also appeared such as \"Easy Rider\" and \"Alice's Restaurant\". (See also: List of films related to the hippie subculture.) Documentaries and television programs have also been produced until today as well as fiction and nonfiction books. The popular Broadway musical \"Hair\" was presented in 1967.\n\nPeople commonly label other cultural movements of that period as hippie, however there are differences. For example, hippies were often not directly engaged in politics, as contrasted with \"Yippies\" (Youth International Party), an activist organization. The Yippies came to national attention during their celebration of the 1968 spring equinox, when some 3,000 of them took over Grand Central Terminal in New York—eventually resulting in 61 arrests. The Yippies, especially their leaders Abbie Hoffman and Jerry Rubin, became notorious for their theatrics, such as trying to levitate the Pentagon at the October 1967 war protest, and such slogans as \"Rise up and abandon the creeping meatball!\" Their stated intention to protest the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago in August, including nominating their own candidate, \"Lyndon Pigasus Pig\" (an actual pig), was also widely publicized in the media at this time.\n\nIn Cambridge, hippies congregated each Sunday for a large \"be-in\" at Cambridge Park with swarms of drummers and those beginning the Women's Movement. In the US the Hippie movement started to be seen as part of the \"New Left\" which was associated with anti-war college campus protest movements. The New Left was a term used mainly in the United Kingdom and United States in reference to activists, educators, agitators and others in the 1960s and 1970s who sought to implement a broad range of reforms on issues such as gay rights, abortion, gender roles and drugs in contrast to earlier leftist or Marxist movements that had taken a more vanguardist approach to social justice and focused mostly on labor unionization and questions of social class.\n\nIn April 1969, the building of People's Park in Berkeley, California received international attention. The University of California, Berkeley had demolished all the buildings on a parcel near campus, intending to use the land to build playing fields and a parking lot. After a long delay, during which the site became a dangerous eyesore, thousands of ordinary Berkeley citizens, merchants, students, and hippies took matters into their own hands, planting trees, shrubs, flowers and grass to convert the land into a park. A major confrontation ensued on May 15, 1969, when Governor Ronald Reagan ordered the park destroyed, which led to a two-week occupation of the city of Berkeley by the California National Guard. Flower power came into its own during this occupation as hippies engaged in acts of civil disobedience to plant flowers in empty lots all over Berkeley under the slogan \"Let a Thousand Parks Bloom\".\n\nIn August 1969, the Woodstock Music and Art Fair took place in Bethel, New York, which for many, exemplified the best of hippie counterculture. Over 500,000 people arrived to hear some of the most notable musicians and bands of the era, among them Canned Heat, Richie Havens, Joan Baez, Janis Joplin, The Grateful Dead, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, Carlos Santana, Sly & The Family Stone, The Who, Jefferson Airplane, and Jimi Hendrix. Wavy Gravy's Hog Farm provided security and attended to practical needs, and the hippie ideals of love and human fellowship seemed to have gained real-world expression. Similar rock festivals occurred in other parts of the country, which played a significant role in spreading hippie ideals throughout America.\n\nIn December 1969, a rock festival took place in Altamont, California, about 45 km (30 miles ) east of San Francisco. Initially billed as \"Woodstock West\", its official name was The Altamont Free Concert. About 300,000 people gathered to hear The Rolling Stones; Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young; Jefferson Airplane and other bands. The Hells Angels provided security that proved far less benevolent than the security provided at the Woodstock event: 18-year-old Meredith Hunter was stabbed and killed by one of the Hells Angels during The Rolling Stones' performance after he brandished a gun and waved it toward the stage.\n\nBy the 1970s, the 1960s zeitgeist that had spawned hippie culture seemed to be on the wane. The events at Altamont Free Concert shocked many Americans, including those who had strongly identified with hippie culture. Another shock came in the form of the Sharon Tate and Leno and Rosemary LaBianca murders committed in August 1969 by Charles Manson and his \"family\" of followers. Nevertheless, the turbulent political atmosphere that featured the bombing of Cambodia and shootings by National Guardsmen at Jackson State University and Kent State University still brought people together. These shootings inspired the May 1970 song by Quicksilver Messenger Service \"What About Me?\", where they sang, \"You keep adding to my numbers as you shoot my people down\", as well as Neil Young's \"Ohio\", a song that protested the US's expansion of the Vietnam War into Cambodia, recorded by Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young.\n\nMuch of hippie style had been integrated into mainstream American society by the early 1970s. Large rock concerts that originated with the 1967 KFRC Fantasy Fair and Magic Mountain Music Festival and Monterey Pop Festival and the British Isle of Wight Festival in 1968 became the norm, evolving into stadium rock in the process. The anti-war movement reached its peak at the 1971 May Day Protests as over 12,000 protesters were arrested in Washington DC. President Nixon himself actually ventured out of the White House and chatted with a group of the 'hippie' protesters. The draft was ended soon thereafter, in 1973. During the mid 1970s, with the end of the draft and the Vietnam War, a renewal of patriotic sentiment associated with the approach of the United States Bicentennial and the emergence of punk in London, Manchester, New York and Los Angeles, the mainstream media lost interest in the hippie counterculture. At the same time there was a revival of the Mod subculture, skinheads, teddy boys and the emergence of new youth cultures, like the goths (an arty offshoot of punk) and football casuals. Acid rock gave way to prog rock, heavy metal, disco, and punk rock.\n\nStarting in the late 1960s, hippies began to come under attack by skinheads. Hippies were also vilified and sometimes attacked by punks, revivalist mods, greasers, football casuals, Teddy boys, metalheads, rockers, rednecks, rude boys, gangsters, and members of other youth subcultures of the 1970s and 1980s in both North America and Europe. The countercultural movement was also under covert assault by J. Edgar Hoover's infamous \"Counter Intelligence Program\" (COINTELPRO), but in some countries it was other youth groups that were a threat. Hippie ideals had a marked influence on anarcho-punk and some post-punk youth subcultures, especially during the Second Summer of Love.\n\nHippie communes, where members tried to live the ideals of the hippie movement, continued to flourish. On the west coast, Oregon had quite a few. Some faded away. Some are still around.\n\nWhile many hippies made a long-term commitment to the lifestyle, some people argue that hippies \"sold out\" during the 1980s and became part of the materialist, consumer culture. Although not as visible as it once was, hippie culture has never died out completely: hippies and neo-hippies can still be found on college campuses, on communes, and at gatherings and festivals. Many embrace the hippie values of peace, love, and community, and hippies may still be found in bohemian enclaves around the world.\n\nThe bohemian predecessor of the hippie culture in San Francisco was the \"Beat Generation\" style of coffee houses and bars, whose clientele appreciated literature, a game of chess, music (in the forms of jazz and folk style), modern dance, and traditional crafts and arts like pottery and painting.\" The entire tone of the \"new\" subculture was different. \"Jon McIntire, manager of the Grateful Dead from the late sixties to the mid-eighties, points out that the great contribution of the hippie culture was this projection of joy. The beatnik thing was black, cynical, and cold.\" Hippies sought to free themselves from societal restrictions, choose their own way, and find new meaning in life. One expression of hippie independence from societal norms was found in their standard of dress and grooming, which made hippies instantly recognizable to one another, and served as a visual symbol of their respect for individual rights. Through their appearance, hippies declared their willingness to question authority, and distanced themselves from the \"straight\" and \"square\" (i.e., conformist) segments of society. Personality traits and values that hippies tend to be associated with are \"altruism and mysticism, honesty, joy and nonviolence\".\n\nAt the same time, many thoughtful hippies distanced themselves from the very idea that the way a person dresses could be a reliable signal of who he or she was—especially after outright criminals such as Charles Manson began to adopt superficial hippie characteristics, and also after plainclothes policemen started to \"dress like hippies\" to divide and conquer legitimate members of the counterculture. Frank Zappa, known for lampooning hippie ethos, particularly with songs like \"Who Needs the Peace Corps?\" (1968), admonished his audience that \"we all wear a uniform\". The San Francisco clown/hippie Wavy Gravy said in 1987 that he could still see fellow-feeling in the eyes of Market Street businessmen who had dressed conventionally to survive.\n\nLeading proponents of the 1960s Psychedelic Art movement were San Francisco poster artists such as: Rick Griffin, Victor Moscoso, Bonnie MacLean, Stanley Mouse & Alton Kelley, and Wes Wilson. Their Psychedelic Rock concert posters were inspired by Art Nouveau, Victoriana, Dada, and Pop Art. Posters for concerts in the Fillmore West, a concert auditorium in San Francisco, popular with Hippie audiences, were among the most notable of the time. Richly saturated colors in glaring contrast, elaborately ornate lettering, strongly symmetrical composition, collage elements, rubber-like distortions, and bizarre iconography are all hallmarks of the San Francisco psychedelic poster art style. The style flourished from roughly the years 1966 to 1972. Their work was immediately influential to album cover art, and indeed all of the aforementioned artists also created album covers. Psychedelic light-shows were a new art-form developed for rock concerts. Using oil and dye in an emulsion that was set between large convex lenses upon overhead projectors, the lightshow artists created bubbling liquid visuals that pulsed in rhythm to the music. This was mixed with slide shows and film loops to create an improvisational motion picture art form, and to give visual representation to the improvisational jams of the rock bands and create a completely \"trippy\" atmosphere for the audience.\n\nThe Brotherhood of Light were responsible for many of the light-shows in San Francisco psychedelic rock concerts.\n\nOut of the psychedelic counterculture there also arose a new genre of comic books: underground comix. \"Zap Comix\" was among the original underground comics, and featured the work of Robert Crumb, S. Clay Wilson, Victor Moscoso, Rick Griffin, and Robert Williams among others. Underground comix were ribald, intensely satirical, and seemed to pursue weirdness for the sake of weirdness. Gilbert Shelton created perhaps the most enduring of underground cartoon characters, \"The Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers\", whose drugged-out exploits held a mirror up to the hippie lifestyle of the 1960s.\n\nAs in the beat movement preceding them, and the punk movement that followed soon after, hippie symbols and iconography were purposely borrowed from either \"low\" or \"primitive\" cultures, with hippie fashion reflecting a disorderly, often vagrant style. As with other adolescent, white middle-class movements, deviant behavior of the hippies involved challenging the prevailing gender differences of their time: both men and women in the hippie movement wore jeans and maintained long hair, and both genders wore sandals, moccasins or went barefoot. Men often wore beards, while women wore little or no makeup, with many going braless. Hippies often chose brightly colored clothing and wore unusual styles, such as bell-bottom pants, vests, tie-dyed garments, dashikis, peasant blouses, and long, full skirts; non-Western inspired clothing with Native American, Asian, African and Latin American motifs were also popular. Much hippie clothing was self-made in defiance of corporate culture, and hippies often purchased their clothes from flea markets and second-hand shops. Favored accessories for both men and women included Native American jewelry, head scarves, headbands and long beaded necklaces. Hippie homes, vehicles and other possessions were often decorated with psychedelic art. The bold colors, hand-made clothing and loose fitting clothes opposed the tight and uniform clothing of the 1940s and 1950s. It also rejected consumerism in that the hand-production of clothing called for self-efficiency and individuality.\n\nThe common stereotype on the issues of love and sex had it that the hippies were \"promiscuous, having wild sex orgies, seducing innocent teenagers and every manner of sexual perversion.\" The hippie movement appeared concurrently in the midst of a rising sexual revolution, in which many views of the \"status quo\" on this subject were being challenged.\n\nThe clinical study \"Human Sexual Response\" was published by Masters and Johnson in 1966, and the topic suddenly became more commonplace in America. The 1969 book \"Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (But Were Afraid to Ask)\" by psychiatrist David Reuben was a more popular attempt at answering the public's curiosity regarding such matters. Then in 1972 appeared \"The Joy of Sex\" by Alex Comfort, reflecting an even more candid perception of love-making. By this time, the recreational or 'fun' aspects of sexual behavior were being discussed more openly than ever before, and this more 'enlightened' outlook resulted not just from the publication of such new books as these, but from a more pervasive sexual revolution that had already been well underway for some time.\n\nThe hippies inherited various countercultural views and practices regarding sex and love from the Beat Generation; \"their writings influenced the hippies to open up when it came to sex, and to experiment without guilt or jealousy.\" One popular hippie slogan that appeared was \"If it feels good, do it!\" which for many \"meant you were free to love whomever you pleased, whenever you pleased, however you pleased\". This encouraged spontaneous sexual activity and experimentation. Group sex, public sex, homosexuality under the influence of drugs, all the taboos went out the window. This doesn't mean that straight sex or monogamy were unknown, quite the contrary. Nevertheless, the open relationship became an accepted part of the hippy lifestyle. This meant that you might have a primary relationship with one person, but if another attracted you, you could explore that relationship without rancor or jealousy.\"\n\nHippies embraced the old slogan of free love of the radical social reformers of other eras; it was accordingly observed that \"Free love made the whole love, marriage, sex, baby package obsolete. Love was no longer limited to one person, you could love anyone you chose. In fact love was something you shared with everyone, not just your sex partners. Love exists to be shared freely. We also discovered the more you share, the more you get! So why reserve your love for a select few? This profound truth was one of the great hippie revelations.\" Sexual experimentation alongside psychedelics also occurred, due to the perception of their being uninhibitors. Others explored the spiritual aspects of sex.\n\nHippies tended to travel light, and could pick up and go wherever the action was at any time. Whether at a \"love-in\" on Mount Tamalpais near San Francisco, a demonstration against the Vietnam War in Berkeley, or one of Ken Kesey's \"Acid Tests\", if the \"vibe\" wasn't right and a change of scene was desired, hippies were mobile at a moment's notice. Planning was eschewed, as hippies were happy to put a few clothes in a backpack, stick out their thumbs and hitchhike anywhere. Hippies seldom worried whether they had money, hotel reservations or any of the other standard accoutrements of travel. Hippie households welcomed overnight guests on an \"impromptu\" basis, and the reciprocal nature of the lifestyle permitted greater freedom of movement. People generally cooperated to meet each other's needs in ways that became less common after the early 1970s. This way of life is still seen among Rainbow Family groups, new age travellers and New Zealand's housetruckers.\nA derivative of this free-flow style of travel were the hippie trucks and buses, hand-crafted mobile houses built on a truck or bus chassis to facilitate a nomadic lifestyle, as documented in the 1974 book \"Roll Your Own\". Some of these mobile gypsy houses were quite elaborate, with beds, toilets, showers and cooking facilities.\n\nOn the West Coast, a unique lifestyle developed around the Renaissance Faires that Phyllis and Ron Patterson first organized in 1963. During the summer and fall months, entire families traveled together in their trucks and buses, parked at Renaissance Pleasure Faire sites in Southern and Northern California, worked their crafts during the week, and donned Elizabethan costume for weekend performances, and attended booths where handmade goods were sold to the public. The sheer number of young people living at the time made for unprecedented travel opportunities to special happenings. The peak experience of this type was the Woodstock Festival near Bethel, New York, from August 15 to 18, 1969, which drew between 400,000 and 500,000 people.\n\nOne travel experience, undertaken by hundreds of thousands of hippies between 1969 and 1971, was the Hippie trail overland route to India. Carrying little or no luggage, and with small amounts of cash, almost all followed the same route, hitch-hiking across Europe to Athens and on to Istanbul, then by train through central Turkey via Erzurum, continuing by bus into Iran, via Tabriz and Tehran to Mashhad, across the Afghan border into Herat, through southern Afghanistan via Kandahar to Kabul, over the Khyber Pass into Pakistan, via Rawalpindi and Lahore to the Indian frontier. Once in India, hippies went to many different destinations, but gathered in large numbers on the beaches of Goa and Kovalam in Trivandrum (Kerala), or crossed the border into Nepal to spend months in Kathmandu. In Kathmandu, most of the hippies hung out in the tranquil surroundings of a place called Freak Street, (Nepal Bhasa: Jhoo Chhen) which still exists near Kathmandu Durbar Square.\n\nMany hippies rejected mainstream organized religion in favor of a more personal spiritual experience. Buddhism, Hinduism, Sufism often resonated with hippies, as they were seen as less rule-bound, and less likely to be associated with existing baggage. Some hippies embraced neo-paganism, especially Wicca. Others were involved with the occult, with people like Timothy Leary citing Aleister Crowley as influences. By the 1960s, western interest in Hindu spirituality and yoga reached its peak, giving rise to a great number of Neo-Hindu schools specifically advocated to a western public.\n\nIn his 1991 book, \"Hippies and American Values\", Timothy Miller described the hippie ethos as essentially a \"religious movement\" whose goal was to transcend the limitations of mainstream religious institutions. \"Like many dissenting religions, the hippies were enormously hostile to the religious institutions of the dominant culture, and they tried to find new and adequate ways to do the tasks the dominant religions failed to perform.\" In his seminal, contemporaneous work, \"The Hippie Trip\", author Lewis Yablonsky notes that those who were most respected in hippie settings were the spiritual leaders, the so-called \"high priests\" who emerged during that era.\n\nOne such hippie \"high priest\" was San Francisco State University Professor Stephen Gaskin. Beginning in 1966, Gaskin's \"Monday Night Class\" eventually outgrew the lecture hall, and attracted 1,500 hippie followers in an open discussion of spiritual values, drawing from Christian, Buddhist, and Hindu teachings. In 1970 Gaskin founded a Tennessee community called The Farm, and he still lists his religion as \"Hippie.\"\n\nTimothy Leary was an American psychologist and writer, known for his advocacy of psychedelic drugs. On September 19, 1966, Leary founded the League for Spiritual Discovery, a religion declaring LSD as its holy sacrament, in part as an unsuccessful attempt to maintain legal status for the use of LSD and other psychedelics for the religion's adherents based on a \"freedom of religion\" argument. \"The Psychedelic Experience\" was the inspiration for John Lennon's song \"Tomorrow Never Knows\" in The Beatles' album \"Revolver\". He published a pamphlet in 1967 called \"Start Your Own Religion\" to encourage just that and was invited to attend the January 14, 1967 Human Be-In a gathering of 30,000 hippies in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park In speaking to the group, he coined the famous phrase \"Turn on, tune in, drop out\". The English magician Aleister Crowley became an influential icon to the new alternative spiritual movements of the decade as well as for rock musicians. The Beatles included him as one of the many figures on the cover sleeve of their 1967 album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" while Jimmy Page, the guitarist of The Yardbirds and co-founder of 1970s rock band Led Zeppelin was fascinated by Crowley, and owned some of his clothing, manuscripts and ritual objects, and during the 1970s bought Boleskine House, which also appears in the band's movie \"The Song Remains the Same\". On the back cover of the Doors compilation album \"13\", Jim Morrison and the other members of the Doors are shown posing with a bust of Aleister Crowley. Timothy Leary also openly acknowledged Crowley's inspiration.\n\nAfter the hippie era, the Dudeist philosophy and lifestyle developed. Inspired by \"The Dude\", the neo-hippie protagonist of the Coen Brothers' 1998 film \"The Big Lebowski\", Dudeism's stated primary objective is to promote a modern form of Chinese Taoism, outlined in \"Tao Te Ching\" by Laozi (6th century BC), blended with concepts by the Ancient Greek philosopher Epicurus (341-270 BC), and presented in a style as personified by the character of Jeffrey \"The Dude\" Lebowski, a fictional hippie character portrayed by Jeff Bridges in the film. Dudeism has sometimes been regarded as a mock religion, though its founder and many adherents regard it seriously.\n\nFor the historian of the anarchist movement Ronald Creagh, the hippie movement could be considered as the last spectacular resurgence of utopian socialism. For Creagh, a characteristic of this is the desire for the transformation of society not through political revolution, or through reformist action pushed forward by the state, but through the creation of a counter-society of a socialist character in the midst of the current system, which will be made up of ideal communities of a more or less libertarian social form.\n\nThe peace symbol was developed in the UK as a logo for the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, and was embraced by U.S. anti-war protesters during the 1960s.\nHippies were often pacifists, and participated in non-violent political demonstrations, such as Civil Rights Movement, the marches on Washington D.C., and anti–Vietnam War demonstrations, including draft-card burnings and the 1968 Democratic National Convention protests. The degree of political involvement varied widely among hippies, from those who were active in peace demonstrations, to the more anti-authority street theater and demonstrations of the Yippies, the most politically active hippie sub-group. Bobby Seale discussed the differences between Yippies and hippies with Jerry Rubin, who told him that Yippies were the political wing of the hippie movement, as hippies have not \"necessarily become political yet\". Regarding the political activity of hippies, Rubin said, \"They mostly prefer to be stoned, but most of them want peace, and they want an end to this stuff.\"\n\nIn addition to non-violent political demonstrations, hippie opposition to the Vietnam War included organizing political action groups to oppose the war, refusal to serve in the military and conducting \"teach-ins\" on college campuses that covered Vietnamese history and the larger political context of the war.\n\nScott McKenzie's 1967 rendition of John Phillips' song \"San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear Flowers in Your Hair)\", which helped to inspire the hippie Summer of Love, became a homecoming song for all Vietnam veterans arriving in San Francisco from 1967 onward. McKenzie has dedicated every American performance of \"San Francisco\" to Vietnam veterans, and he sang in 2002 at the 20th anniversary of the dedication of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Hippie political expression often took the form of \"dropping out\" of society to implement the changes they sought.\nPolitically motivated movements aided by hippies include the back to the land movement of the 1960s, cooperative business enterprises, alternative energy, the free press movement, and organic farming. The San Francisco group known as the Diggers articulated an influential radical criticism of contemporary mass consumer society, and so they opened free stores which simply gave away their stock, provided free food, distributed free drugs, gave away money, organized free music concerts, and performed works of political art. The Diggers took their name from the original English Diggers (1649–50) led by Gerrard Winstanley, and they sought to create a mini-society free of money and capitalism.\n\nSuch activism was ideally carried through anti-authoritarian and non-violent means; thus it was observed that \"The way of the hippie is antithetical to all repressive hierarchical power structures since they are adverse to the hippie goals of peace, love and freedom... Hippies don't impose their beliefs on others. Instead, hippies seek to change the world through reason and by living what they believe.\"\n\nThe political ideals of hippies influenced other movements, such as anarcho-punk, rave culture, green politics, stoner culture and the New Age movement. Penny Rimbaud of the English anarcho-punk band Crass said in interviews, and in an essay called \"The Last Of The Hippies\", that Crass was formed in memory of his friend, Wally Hope. Crass had its roots in Dial House, which was established in 1967 as a commune. Some punks were often critical of Crass for their involvement in the hippie movement. Like Crass, Jello Biafra was influenced by the hippie movement, and cited the yippies as a key influence on his political activism and thinking, though he also wrote songs critical of hippies.\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of the Beats, many hippies used cannabis (marijuana), considering it pleasurable and benign. They enlarged their spiritual pharmacopeia to include hallucinogens such as peyote, LSD, psilocybin mushrooms and DMT, while often renouncing the use of alcohol. On the East Coast of the United States, Harvard University professors Timothy Leary, Ralph Metzner and Richard Alpert (Ram Dass) advocated psychotropic drugs for psychotherapy, self-exploration, religious and spiritual use. Regarding LSD, Leary said, \"Expand your consciousness and find ecstasy and revelation within.\"\n\nOn the West Coast of the United States, Ken Kesey was an important figure in promoting the recreational use of psychotropic drugs, especially LSD, also known as \"acid.\" By holding what he called \"Acid Tests\", and touring the country with his band of Merry Pranksters, Kesey became a magnet for media attention that drew many young people to the fledgling movement. The Grateful Dead (originally billed as \"The Warlocks\") played some of their first shows at the Acid Tests, often as high on LSD as their audiences. Kesey and the Pranksters had a \"vision of turning on the world.\" Harder drugs, such as cocaine, amphetamines and heroin, were also sometimes used in hippie settings; however, these drugs were often disdained, even among those who used them, because they were recognized as harmful and addictive.\n\nThe stereotypical belief that in the 1960s, the hippies' heyday, drugs were running rampant and little was done to enforce drug laws, is not supported by the facts; by 1969 only 4% of Americans had tried marijuana.\n\nThe legacy of the hippie movement continues to permeate Western society. In general, unmarried couples of all ages feel free to travel and live together without societal disapproval. Frankness regarding sexual matters has become more common, and the rights of homosexual, bisexual and transgender people, as well as people who choose not to categorize themselves at all, have expanded. Religious and cultural diversity has gained greater acceptance.\n\nCo-operative business enterprises and creative community living arrangements are more accepted than before. Some of the little hippie health food stores of the 1960s and 1970s are now large-scale, profitable businesses, due to greater interest in natural foods, herbal remedies, vitamins and other nutritional supplements.\nIt has been suggested that 1960s and 1970s counterculture embraced certain types of \"groovy\" science and technology. Examples include surfboard design, renewable energy, aquaculture and client-centered approaches to midwifery, childbirth, and women's health.\nAuthors Stewart Brand and John Markoff argue that the development and popularization of personal computers and the Internet find one of their primary roots in the anti-authoritarian ethos promoted by hippie culture.\n\nDistinct appearance and clothing was one of the immediate legacies of hippies worldwide. During the 1960s and 1970s, mustaches, beards and long hair became more commonplace and colorful, while multi-ethnic clothing dominated the fashion world. Since that time, a wide range of personal appearance options and clothing styles, including nudity, have become more widely acceptable, all of which was uncommon before the hippie era. Hippies also inspired the decline in popularity of the necktie and other \"business\" clothing, which had been unavoidable for men during the 1950s and early 1960s. Additionally, hippie fashion itself has been commonplace in the years since the 1960s in clothing and accessories, particularly the peace symbol. [[Astrology]], including everything from serious study to whimsical amusement regarding personal traits, was integral to hippie culture. The generation of the 1970s became influenced by the hippie and the 60s countercultural legacy. As such in [[New York City]] musicians and audiences from the female, homosexual, black, and Latino communities adopted several traits from the hippies and [[psychedelia]]. They included overwhelming sound, free-form dancing, weird lighting, colorful costumes, and [[hallucinogens]]. [[Psychedelic soul]] groups like the [[Chambers Brothers]] and especially [[Sly and The Family Stone]] influenced proto-disco acts such as [[Isaac Hayes]], [[Willie Hutch]] and the [[Philadelphia soul|Philadelphia Sound]]. In addition, the perceived positivity, lack of irony, and earnestness of the [[hippies]] informed proto-disco music like [[M.F.S.B.]]'s album \"[[Love Is the Message (album)|Love Is the Message]]\".\n\nThe hippie legacy in literature includes the lasting popularity of books reflecting the hippie experience, such as \"[[The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test]]\". In music, the [[folk rock]] and [[psychedelic rock]] popular among hippies evolved into genres such as [[acid rock]], [[World music|world beat]] and [[heavy metal music]]. [[Psychedelic trance]] (also known as psytrance) is a type of [[electronic music]] influenced by 1960s psychedelic rock. The tradition of hippie music festivals began in the United States in 1965 with Ken Kesey's [[Acid Tests]], where the [[Grateful Dead]] played tripping on [[LSD]] and initiated psychedelic jamming. For the next several decades, many hippies and neo-hippies became part of the [[Deadhead]] community, attending music and art festivals held around the country. The [[Grateful Dead]] toured continuously, with few interruptions between 1965 and 1995. [[Phish]] and their fans (called \"Phish Heads\") operated in the same manner, with the band touring continuously between 1983 and 2004. Many contemporary bands performing at hippie festivals and their derivatives are called [[jam band]]s, since they play songs that contain long instrumentals similar to the original hippie bands of the 1960s.\n\nWith the demise of Grateful Dead and Phish, nomadic touring hippies attend a growing series of summer festivals, the largest of which is called the [[Bonnaroo Music Festival|Bonnaroo Music & Arts Festival]], which premiered in 2002. The [[Oregon Country Fair]] is a three-day festival featuring handmade crafts, educational displays and costumed entertainment. The annual [[Starwood Festival]], founded in 1981, is a seven-day event indicative of the spiritual quest of hippies through an exploration of non-mainstream religions and world-views, and has offered performances and classes by a variety of hippie and counter-culture icons.\n\nThe [[Burning Man]] festival began in 1986 at a San Francisco beach party and is now held in the [[Black Rock Desert]] northeast of [[Reno, Nevada|Reno]], Nevada. Although few participants would accept the \"hippie\" label, Burning Man is a contemporary expression of alternative community in the same spirit as early hippie events. The gathering becomes a temporary city (36,500 occupants in 2005, 50,000+ in 2011), with elaborate encampments, displays, and many [[art cars]]. Other events that enjoy a large attendance include the [[Rainbow Family Gatherings]], The [[Gathering of the Vibes]], Community Peace Festivals, and the [[Woodstock Festival]]s.\n\nIn the UK, there are many [[new age travellers]] who are known as hippies to outsiders, but prefer to call themselves the [[Peace Convoy]]. They started the [[Stonehenge Free Festival]] in 1974, but [[English Heritage]] later banned the festival in 1985, resulting in the [[Battle of the Beanfield]]. With Stonehenge banned as a festival site, new age travellers gather at the annual [[Glastonbury Festival]]. Today, hippies in the UK can be found in parts of [[South West England]], such as [[Bristol]] (particularly the neighborhoods of [[Montpelier, Bristol|Montpelier]], [[Stokes Croft]], [[St Werburghs]], [[Bishopston, Bristol|Bishopston]], [[Easton, Bristol|Easton]] and [[Totterdown]]), [[Glastonbury]] in [[Somerset]], [[Totnes]] in [[Devon]], and [[Stroud]] in [[Gloucestershire]], as well as in [[Hebden Bridge]] in [[West Yorkshire]], and in areas of [[London]] and [[Brighton]]. In the summer, many hippies and those of similar subcultures gather at numerous outdoor festivals in the countryside.\n\nIn New Zealand between 1976 and 1981 tens of thousands of hippies gathered from around the world on large farms around [[Waihi]] and [[Waikino]] for music and alternatives festivals. Named \"[[Nambassa]]\", the festivals focused on peace, love, and a balanced lifestyle. The events featured practical [[workshops]] and displays advocating [[alternative lifestyles]], [[self sufficiency]], clean and [[sustainable energy]] and [[sustainable living]].\n\nIn the UK and Europe, the years 1987 to 1989 were marked by a large-scale revival of many characteristics of the hippie movement. This later movement, composed mostly of people aged 18 to 25, adopted much of the original hippie philosophy of love, peace and freedom. The summer of 1988 became known as the [[Second Summer of Love]]. Although the music favored by this movement was modern [[electronic music]], especially [[house music]] and [[acid house]], one could often hear songs from the original hippie era in the \"chill out rooms\" at [[rave]]s. Also, there was a trend towards psychedelic indie rock in the form of [[Shoegaze]], [[Dream Pop]], [[Madchester]] and [[Neo-Psychedelic]] bands like [[Jesus And Mary Chain]], [[The Sundays]], [[Spacemen 3]], [[Loop (band)|Loop]], [[Stone Roses]], [[Happy Mondays]], [[Inspiral Carpets]] and [[Ride (band)|Ride]]. This was effectively a parallel soundtrack to the rave scene that was rooted as much in 1960s psychedelic rock as it was in [[post-punk]], though [[Madchester]] was more directly influenced by Acid House, funk and northern soul. Interestingly, many ravers were originally [[soul boys]] and [[football casuals]], and [[football hooliganism]] declined after the Second Summer of Love.\n\nIn the UK, many of the well-known figures of this movement first lived communally in [[Stroud Green, London|Stroud Green]], an area of north London located in [[Finsbury Park]]. In 1995, [[The Sekhmet Hypothesis]] attempted to link both hippie and rave culture together in relation to transactional analysis, suggesting that rave culture was a social archetype based on the mood of friendly strength, compared to the gentle hippie archetype, based on friendly weakness. The later electronic dance genres known as [[goa trance]] and [[psychedelic trance]] and its related events and culture have important hippie legacies and neo hippie elements. The popular DJ of the genre [[Goa Gil]], like other hippies from the 1960s, decided to leave the US and Western Europe to travel on the [[hippie trail]] and later developing psychedelic parties and music in the Indian island of [[Goa]] in which the goa and psytrance genres were born and exported around the world in the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nPopular films depicting the hippie ethos and lifestyle include \"[[Woodstock (film)|Woodstock]]\", \"[[Easy Rider]]\", \"[[Hair (film)|Hair]]\", \"[[The Doors (film)|The Doors]]\", \"[[Across the Universe (film)|Across the Universe]]\", \"[[Taking Woodstock]]\", and \"[[Crumb (film)|Crumb]]\".\n\nIn 2002, photojournalist John Bassett McCleary published a 650-page, 6,000-entry unabridged [[slang dictionary]] devoted to the language of the hippies titled \"The Hippie Dictionary: A Cultural Encyclopedia of the 1960s and 1970s\". The book was revised and expanded to 700 pages in 2004. McCleary believes that the hippie counterculture added a significant number of words to the English language by borrowing from the lexicon of the [[Beat Generation]], through the hippies' shortening of beatnik words and then popularizing their usage. \n\n\n\n\n[[Category:Hippie movement| ]]\n[[Category:1960s fashion]]\n[[Category:1960s in music]]\n[[Category:1970s fashion]]\n[[Category:1970s in music]]\n[[Category:Articles containing video clips]]\n[[Category:California culture]]\n[[Category:Counterculture of the 1960s]]\n[[Category:Free love advocates]]\n[[Category:Sexual revolution]]\n[[Category:Subcultures]]"}
{"id": "45717933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45717933", "title": "Hong v. Facebook, Inc.", "text": "Hong v. Facebook, Inc.\n\nHong v. Facebook Inc., Anil Wilson, et. al. was a gender discrimination and race discrimination lawsuit filed in 2015 by Hong against her former employer, Facebook, her supervisor, and 50 others. The lawsuit was filed in San Mateo County Superior Court by attorneys Lawless & Lawless.\n\nChia Hong worked for Facebook over three years as a product manager and technology partner in finance. She was fired in October 2013. On March 16, 2015, she filed a suit against the company, alleging sexual discrimination, sexual harassment, race discrimination and intentional infliction of emotional distress among other charges. She claimed Facebook was a \"hostile work environment,\" and that she was belittled, and ordered to organize social functions and serve drinks to male colleagues. She also claimed to have been asked why she didn't take care of her child. Hong, a Taiwanese American, alleged that she was excluded by coworkers because she was the only team member of Chinese descent. A Facebook spokesperson released a statement in response to the filing: \"We work extremely hard on issues related to diversity, gender and equality, and we believe we've made progress. (...) In this case we have substantive disagreements on the facts, and we believe the record shows the employee was treated fairly.\" \n\nThe parties stipulated to voluntary mediation before a court-related mediator. The mediation session was scheduled for August 31, 2015. After the mediation, the case was voluntarily dismissed by plaintiff Hong on October 2, 2015. Attorneys for Hong stated that the matter had been \"resolved,\" and it is not known whether there was a settlement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26502531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26502531", "title": "Human trafficking in Ireland", "text": "Human trafficking in Ireland\n\nIreland is one of many destination countries for women, men, and children trafficked for the purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor.\n\nThe US Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA), as amended, requires the US Secretary of State to submit an Annual Report to the US Congress assessing the actions of various countries across the world in the fight against trafficking in persons.\n\nThe US State Department on Thursday released a report showing a 73 per cent increase in the number of detected cases of human trafficking in Ireland since 2014\nIreland still retains Tier 1 Status in US State Department Annual Human Trafficking Report as of 2015. Ireland having a Tier 1 status means they meet the minimum standard for the elimination of severe forms of trafficking.\n\nAs the Republic of Ireland has been assessed by the State Department as meeting the minimum standard for the elimination of severe forms of trafficking as set out in the US Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA), (as amended) it has retained its top Tier 1 rating in 2015. Ireland has been classified as Tier 1 for the past six years.\n\nAs is the norm for all countries, including Tier 1 countries, the Report on Ireland contains a number of recommendations to be implemented going forward. These recommendations are addressed within the context of the development of the Second National Action Plan to Prevent and Tackle Human Trafficking across the world.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 1\" in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "8224435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8224435", "title": "Immigration to Bolivia", "text": "Immigration to Bolivia\n\nBolivia comparatively has experienced far less immigration than its South American neighbors. Nevertheless, small groups of Germans, Spaniards, Italians, a small Yugoslavian community, and others live in the country. The Basques were a large source of Spanish and European immigration from the late 16th to early 20th centuries, most came as shepherds and ranchers to Bolivia's vast livestock industry. \n\nSimilar to other Latin American nations, Bolivia has experienced a small Japanese migration. Beginning in 1899 a small migration of Japanese began that continued until the 1970s. Small Japanese communities were formed in the Bolivian department of Santa Cruz. Other east Asians (Taiwanese and Chinese, and Middle Easterners (Lebanese and Syrians) developed their own communities in Bolivia in the late 20th century. During the 20th century Bolivia received a small number of Jews, mainly Ashkenazi.\n\nAccording to the 2001 Census 87,338 of the Bolivian resident population were born outside Bolivia, representing 1.06% of the total Bolivian resident population.\n\n"}
{"id": "78966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78966", "title": "Indo-Aryan languages", "text": "Indo-Aryan languages\n\nThe Indo-Aryan or Indic languages is the dominant language family of the Indian subcontinent. They constitute a branch of the Indo-Iranian languages, itself a branch of the Indo-European language family. In the early 21st century, Indo-Aryan languages were spoken by more than 800 million people, primarily in India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.\n\nThe largest in terms of speakers are Hindustani (Hindi-Urdu, about 329 million), Bengali (242 million), Punjabi (about 100 million), and other languages, with a 2005 estimate placing the total number of native speakers at nearly 900 million.\n\nProto-Indo-Aryan, or sometimes Proto-Indic, is the reconstructed proto-language of the Indo-Aryan languages. It is intended to reconstruct the language of the pre-Vedic Indo-Aryans. Proto-Indo-Aryan is meant to be the predecessor of Old Indo-Aryan (1500–300 BCE) which is directly attested as Vedic and Mitanni-Aryan. Despite the great archaicity of Vedic, however, the other Indo-Aryan languages preserve a small number of archaic features lost in Vedic.\n\n\nThe earliest evidence of the group is from Mitanni Indo-Aryan. The only evidence of it is a few proper names and specialized loanwords. \n\nRigvedic Indo-Aryan has been used in the ancient preserved religious hymns of the Rigveda, the earliest Vedic literature.\n\nFrom the Rigvedic language, \"Sanskrit\" (literally \"put together\", meaning perfected or elaborated) developed as the prestige language of culture, science and religion, as well as the court, theatre, etc. Sanskrit is, by convention, referred to by modern scholars as 'Classical Sanskrit' in contradistinction to the so-called 'Rigvedic Sanskrit', which is largely intelligible to Sanskrit speakers.\n\nOutside the learned sphere of Sanskrit, vernacular dialects (Prakrits) continued to evolve. The oldest attested Prakrits are the Buddhist and Jain canonical languages Pali and Ardhamagadhi Prakrit, respectively. By medieval times, the Prakrits had diversified into various Middle Indo-Aryan languages. \"Apabhraṃśa\" is the conventional cover term for transitional dialects connecting late Middle Indo-Aryan with early Modern Indo-Aryan, spanning roughly the 6th to 13th centuries. Some of these dialects showed considerable literary production; the \"Śravakacāra\" of Devasena (dated to the 930s) is now considered to be the first Hindi book.\n\nThe next major milestone occurred with the Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent in the 13th–16th centuries. Under the flourishing Turco-Mongol Mughal Empire, Persian became very influential as the language of prestige of the Islamic courts due to adoptation of the foreign language by the Mughal emperors. However, Persian was soon displaced by Hindustani. This Indo-Aryan language is a combination with Persian, Arabic, and Turkic elements in its vocabulary, with the grammar of the local dialects.\n\nThe two largest languages that formed from Apabhraṃśa were Bengali and Hindustani; others include Sindhi, Gujarati, Odia, Marathi, and Punjabi.\n\nThe Indo-Aryan languages of North India and Pakistan form a dialect continuum. What is called \"Hindi\" in India is frequently Standard Hindi, the Sanskritized version of the colloquial Hindustani spoken in the Delhi area since the Mughals. However, the term Hindi is also used for most of the central Indic dialects from Bihar to Rajasthan. The spoken New Indo-Aryan dialects from Assam in the east to the borders of Afghanistan in the west form a linguistic continuum across the plains of North India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.\n\nIn the Central Zone Hindi-speaking areas, for a long time the prestige dialect was Braj Bhasha, but this was replaced in the 19th century by the Khariboli-based Hindustani. Hindustani was strongly influenced by Sanskrit and Persian, with these influences leading to the emergence of Modern Standard Hindi and Modern Standard Urdu as registers of the Hindustani language. This state of affairs continued until the division of the British Indian Empire in 1947, when Hindi became the official language in India and Urdu became official in Pakistan. Despite the different script the fundamental grammar remains identical, the difference is more sociolinguistic than purely linguistic. Today it is widely understood/spoken as a second or third language throughout South Asia and one of the most widely known languages in the world in terms of number of speakers.\n\nSome theonyms, proper names and other terminology of the Mitanni exhibit an Indo-Aryan superstrate, suggest that a Indo-Aryan elite imposed itself over the Hurrians in the course of the Indo-Aryan expansion. In a treaty between the Hittites and the Mitanni, the deities Mitra, Varuna, Indra, and the Ashvins (Nasatya) are invoked. Kikkuli's horse training text includes technical terms such as \"aika\" (\"eka\", one), \"tera\" (\"tri\", three), \"panza\" (\"pancha\", five), \"satta\" (\"sapta\", seven), \"na\" (\"nava\", nine), \"vartana\" (\"vartana\", turn, round in the horse race). The numeral aika \"one\" is of particular importance because it places the superstrate in the vicinity of Indo-Aryan proper as opposed to Indo-Iranian or early Iranian (which has \"aiva\") in general\n\nAnother text has \"babru\" (\"babhru\", brown), \"parita\" (\"palita\", grey), and \"pinkara\" (\"pingala\", red). Their chief festival was the celebration of the solstice (\"vishuva\") which was common in most cultures in the ancient world. The Mitanni warriors were called \"marya\", the term for warrior in Sanskrit as well; note mišta-nnu (= miẓḍha, ≈ Sanskrit mīḍha) \"payment (for catching a fugitive)\" (M. Mayrhofer, \"Etymologisches Wörterbuch des Altindoarischen\", Heidelberg, 1986–2000; Vol. II:358).\n\nSanskritic interpretations of Mitanni royal names render Artashumara (\"artaššumara\") as \"Ṛtasmara\" \"who thinks of Ṛta\" (Mayrhofer II 780), Biridashva (biridašṷa, biriiašṷa) as \"Prītāśva\" \"Whose Horse is Dear\" (Mayrhofer II 182), Priyamazda (priiamazda) as \"Priyamedha\" \"whose wisdom is dear\" (Mayrhofer II 189, II378), Citrarata as \"Citraratha\" \"Whose Chariot is Shining\" (Mayrhofer I 553), Indaruda/Endaruta as \"Indrota\" \"helped by Indra\" (Mayrhofer I 134), Shativaza (šattiṷaza) as \"Sātivāja\" \"Winning the Race Price\" (Mayrhofer II 540, 696), Šubandhu as \"Subandhu\" \"Having Good Relatives\" (a name in Palestine, Mayrhofer II 209, 735), Tushratta (tṷišeratta, tušratta, etc.) as *tṷaiašaratha, Vedic Tvastar \"Whose Chariot is Vehement\" (Mayrhofer, Etym. Wb., I 686, I 736).\n\nDomari is an Indo-Aryan language spoken by older Dom people scattered across the MENA. The language is reported to be spoken as far north as Azerbaijan and as far south as central Sudan, in Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Iraq, Palestine, Israel, Jordan, Egypt, Sudan, Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Syria and Lebanon. Based on the systematicity of sound changes, we know with a fair degree of certainty that the names \"Domari\" and \"Romani\" derive from the Indo-Aryan word \"ḍom\".\n\nLomavren is a nearly extinct mixed language, spoken by the Lom people, that arose from language contact between a language related to Romani and Domari and the Armenian language.\n\nThe Romani language is usually included in the Western Indo-Aryan languages. Romani — spoken mainly in various parts of Europe — is conservative in maintaining almost intact the Middle Indo-Aryan present-tense person concord markers, and in maintaining consonantal endings for nominal case – both features that have been eroded in most other modern languages of Central India. It shares an innovative pattern of past-tense person concord with the languages of the Northwest, such as Kashmiri and Shina. This is believed to be further proof that Romani originated in the Central region, then migrated to the Northwest.\n\nThere are no known historical documents about the early phases of the Romani language.\n\nLinguistic evaluation carried out in the nineteenth century by Pott (1845) and Miklosich (1882–1888) showed that the Romani language is to be classed as a New Indo-Aryan language (NIA), not Middle Indo-Aryan (MIA), establishing that the ancestors of the Romani could not have left India significantly earlier than AD 1000.\n\nThe principal argument favouring a migration during or after the transition period to NIA is the loss of the old system of nominal case, and its reduction to just a two-way case system, nominative vs. oblique. A secondary argument concerns the system of gender differentiation. Romani has only two genders (masculine and feminine). Middle Indo-Aryan languages (named MIA) generally had three genders (masculine, feminine and neuter), and some modern Indo-Aryan languages retain this old system even today.\n\nIt is argued that loss of the neuter gender did not occur until the transition to NIA. Most of the neuter nouns became masculine while a few feminine, like the neuter अग्नि (agni) in the Prakrit became the feminine आग (āg) in Hindi and jag in Romani. The parallels in grammatical gender evolution between Romani and other NIA languages have been cited as evidence that the forerunner of Romani remained on the Indian subcontinent until a later period, perhaps even as late as the tenth century.\n\nThere can be no definitive enumeration of Indic languages because their dialects merge into one another. The major ones are illustrated here; for the details, see the dedicated articles.\n\nThe classification follows Masica (1991) and Kausen (2006). \n\n\n\n\n\n\nEthnologue lists the following languages under the Western Zone that are not already covered in other subgroups:\n\nParya - 4,000 speakers\n\nParya historically belonged to the Central Zone but lost intelligibility with other languages of the group due to geographic distance and numerous grammatical and lexical innovations.\n\nThese languages derive from Magadhan Apabhraṃśa Prakrit.\n\n\nThis group of languages developed from Maharashtri Prakrit.\nIt is not clear if Dakhini (Deccani, Southern Urdu) is part of Hindustani along with Standard Urdu, or a separate Persian-influenced development from Marathi.\n\nThe Insular Indic languages share several characteristics that set them apart significantly from the continental languages.\n\nThe following languages are related to each other, but otherwise unclassified within Indo-Aryan:\n\nKuswaric\n\nChinali–Lahul Lohar\n\nThe following other poorly attested languages are listed as unclassified within the Indo-Aryan family by \"Ethnologue\" 17:\n\n\nAlso Degaru, Mina, Bhalay and Gowlan are all names for the Gowli caste, rather than a language.\n\nKholosi \n\nThe normative system of New Indo-Aryan stops consists of five points of articulation: labial, dental, \"retroflex\", palatal, and velar, which is the same as that of Sanskrit. The \"retroflex\" position may involve retroflexion, or curling the tongue to make the contact with the underside of the tip, or merely retraction. The point of contact may be alveolar or postalveolar, and the distinctive quality may arise more from the shaping than from the position of the tongue. Palatals stops have affricated release and are traditionally included as involving a distinctive tongue position (blade in contact with hard palate). Widely transcribed as , claims to be a more accurate rendering.\n\nMoving away from the normative system, some languages and dialects have alveolar affricates instead of palatal, though some among them retain in certain positions: before front vowels (esp. ), before , or when geminated. Alveolar as an \"additional\" point of articulation occurs in Marathi and Konkani where dialect mixture and others factors upset the aforementioned complementation to produce minimal environments, in some West Pahari dialects through internal developments (, > ), and in Kashmiri. The addition of a retroflex affricate to this in some Dardic languages maxes out the number of stop positions at seven (barring borrowed ), while a reduction to the inventory involves *ts > , which has happened in Assamese, Chittagonian, Sinhala (though there have been other sources of a secondary ), and Southern Mewari.\n\nFurther reductions in the number of stop articulations are in Assamese and Romany, which have lost the characteristic dental/retroflex contrast, and in Chittagonian, which may lose its labial and velar articulations through spirantization in many positions (> ).\n\nSanskrit was noted as having five nasal-stop articulations corresponding to its oral stops, and among modern languages and dialects Dogri, Kacchi, Kalasha, Rudhari, Shina, Saurasthtri, and Sindhi have been analyzed as having this full complement of phonemic nasals , with the last two generally as the result of the loss of the stop from a homorganic nasal + stop cluster ( > and > ), though there are other sources as well.\n\nThe following are consonant systems of major and representative New Indo-Aryan languages, as presented in , though here they are in IPA. Parentheses indicate those consonants found only in loanwords: square brackets indicate those with \"very low functional load\". The arrangement is roughly geographical.\n\nIn the context of South Asia, the choice between the appellations \"language\" and \"dialect\" is a difficult one, and any distinction made using these terms is obscured by their ambiguity. In one general colloquial sense, a language is a \"developed\" dialect: one that is standardised, has a written tradition and enjoys social prestige. As there are degrees of development, the boundary between a language and a dialect thus defined is not clear-cut, and there is a large middle ground where assignment is contestable.\nThere is a second meaning of these terms, in which the distinction is drawn on the basis of linguistic similarity. Though seemingly a \"proper\" linguistics sense of the terms, it is still problematic: methods that have been proposed for quantifying difference (for example, based on mutual intelligibility) have not been seriously applied in practice; and any relationship established in this framework is relative.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19539130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19539130", "title": "Iranians in Germany", "text": "Iranians in Germany\n\nIranians in Germany include immigrants from Iran to Germany as well as their descendants of Iranian heritage or background. There are 100,000 to 120,000 ethnic Iranians living in Germany. With around 25,000 people of Iranian descent, Hamburg is the main center of the Iranian diaspora.\nIranians in Germany are referred to by hyphenated terms such as German-Iranians, Iranian-German, German-Persian, or Persian-German. Similar terms \"Iranisch Deutsch\" and \"Persisches Deutsch\", may be found in German-language media.\n\nAs Iran almost never frees its citizens from their Iranian citizenship (see Article 989 Iran. Civil Code ), which is inherited through the father (or descent), there are many German-Iranian (multiple nationality). The still existing German-Iranian agreement of 1929 regulates in no. II of the Final Protocol that government approval is required prior to the naturalization of nationals of the other State.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27173838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27173838", "title": "James K. Bredar", "text": "James K. Bredar\n\nJames Kelleher Bredar (born February 6, 1957) is a United States District Judge in the District of Maryland, a position he has held since 2010. He became Chief Judge in 2017. He previously served for 12 years as a United States Magistrate Judge in the same district.\n\nBredar was born in Omaha, Nebraska in 1957, and he was raised in Denver, Colorado where he attended parochial and public schools. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1979 from Harvard College and a Juris Doctor degree in 1982 from the Georgetown University Law Center. From 1981 until 1982 he was a Visiting Student at the Yale Law School.\n\nBredar clerked for Judge Richard P. Matsch of the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. He next served as a Deputy District Attorney in Moffat County, Colorado (1984–1985), and as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Colorado (1985–1989). He later served as an Assistant Federal Public Defender in the District of Colorado (1989–1991). During 1991 and 1992, Bredar served as a project director for the Vera Institute of Justice, a research organization based in New York. Bredar served in London, England. Bredar served as the Federal Public Defender for the District of Maryland (1992–1998).\n\nBredar served as a United States Magistrate Judge from 1998 until 2010. On April 21, 2010, President Barack Obama nominated Bredar to become United States District Judge for the District of Maryland. His nomination was approved by the full Senate of the 111th United States Congress on December 16, 2010. He received his commission on December 17, 2010 and was sworn in on December 22, 2010. He has served as Chief Judge since October 6, 2017.\n\nIn April 2017, Judge Bredar approved a consent decree signed by the Mayor of Baltimore; the Baltimore Police Department; and Vanita Gupta, former acting Assistant Attorney General with the Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division. The consent decree called for major reforms within the police department. Negotiation of the decree had followed an investigation by the Department of Justice of the police department, as requested by the city in 2015. Judge Bredar denied a request by then-recently appointed Attorney General Jeff Sessions to postpone signing for thirty days in order to give the new administration time to review the decree; Judge Bredar said the Court was satisfied with the decree and that it was time to get the changes underway.\n\nAs of 2018, Judge Bredar is one of three judges assigned to a case captioned \"Benisek v. Lamone\", No. 1:13-cv-03233-JKB (D. Md.). The case challenges Maryland's 2011 congressional redistricting map, and specifically Maryland's 6th congressional district, as an unconstitutional partisan gerrymander. The \"Benisek\" case has a fascinating procedural history in that the United States Supreme Court has twice heard argument on aspects of the case. The Supreme Court first considered the case in Shapiro v. McManus, a 2015 decision overruling a precedent of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit that had addressed those circumstances in which a single district judge can dismiss a case that otherwise falls within the ambit of 28 U.S.C. § 2284 (the three-judge court statute). Following the \"Shapiro\" decision, the case was remanded, and Judge Bredar—along with Circuit Judge Paul V. Niemeyer and District Judge George Levi Russell III--presided over the further litigation. Judge Bredar dissented primarily on jurisdictional grounds from an August 2016 decision by the three-judge court denying the State's motion to dismiss, but he commanded a 2–1 majority denying plaintiffs' subsequent motion for a preliminary injunction. Plaintiffs sought appellate review of that decision, and the Supreme Court in 2018 affirmed the district court in Benisek v. Lamone. Following that second ruling by the Supreme Court, the case returned to the district court for proceedings on cross-motions for summary judgment. On November 7, 2018, one day after the midterm elections, the court ordered Maryland to draw up a new congressional redistricting plan for use in the 2020 congressional election, with Bredar writing, \"Partisan gerrymandering is noxious, a cancer on our democracy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20408615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20408615", "title": "Jetta Klijnsma", "text": "Jetta Klijnsma\n\nJellejetta \"Jetta\" Klijnsma (; born 18 March 1957) is a Dutch politician of the Labour Party serving as the King's Commissioner of Drenthe since 1 December 2017. Elected to the House of Representatives from 2010 to 2012, she focused on matters of culture, senior citizens, disabled people and medical ethics. Previously she was State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment in the Fourth Balkenende cabinet (2008–2010) and an alderwoman of the municipality of The Hague (1998–2008). From 2012 to 2017 she was appointed again as State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment, dealing with unemployment insurances, pay equality, long-term unemployment, poverty, and health and safety at work in the Second Rutte cabinet.\n\nKlijnsma was born 18 March 1957 in Hoogeveen. She studied history at the University of Groningen, with a specialization in social history and economic history. After graduating she began to work for the Labour Party's parliamentary group. She was assistant to MPs André van der Louw, Marcel van Dam and Thijs Wöltgens.\n\nKlijnsma has a physical handicap. She was born with spastic legs and only learned how to walk at age thirteen. She has a Reformed background but turned non-religious and became a member of the Dutch Humanist League.\n\nIn 1990 she was elected to the municipal council of The Hague. In 1998 she became alderwoman for welfare, health and emancipation. After the 2006 municipal elections she became responsible for culture and finance and also became vice-mayor. After Wim Deetman stepped down, she was mayor \"ad interim\" of The Hague and so became the first woman in that function.\n\nIn December 2008 she succeeded fellow Labour Party politician Ahmed Aboutaleb as State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment in the Fourth Balkenende cabinet. She was State Secretary until February 2010, when the Labour Party withdrew its support for Balkenende's government. An MP from 2010 to 2012, she was appointed again as Social Affairs State Secretary in the Second Rutte cabinet in November 2012, serving until the inauguration on 26 October 2017 of the Third Rutte cabinet which the PvdA does not support. On 1 November 2017 she was appointed King's Commissioner of the province of Drenthe after former The Hague Mayor Jozias van Aartsen was appointed in March 2017 as interim Commissioner; she took office on 1 December.\n"}
{"id": "38517245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38517245", "title": "Kajaman language", "text": "Kajaman language\n\nKajaman (Kayaman) is a Kajang language of Sarawak.\n"}
{"id": "35469963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35469963", "title": "Kerinci language", "text": "Kerinci language\n\nKerinci (Karinchi or Kincai) is a Malayan language spoken in Jambi Province, Sumatra especially in Kerinci Regency and Sungai Penuh city. It has a high dialectical diversity, with dialects consists of Ulu, Mamaq, Akit, Talang and Sakei.\n\nLempur Malay and Rantau Panjang Malay, two recently described divergent Malay varieties spoken in the western part of Jambi province, share features with both Kerinci and Jambi Malay.\n\nVan Reijn (1974) notes that Kerinci shares many phonological similarities with Austroasiatic languages, such as sesquisyllabic word structure and vowel inventory.\n\nErnanda. (2011). On the loss of the phrasal alternation in Pondok Tinggi dialect of Kerinci: A Stochastic Optimality Theory Approach (Master thesis). Faculty of *Arts. Radboud University Nijmegen.\n"}
{"id": "456700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456700", "title": "Kochi people", "text": "Kochi people\n\nKochis or Kuchis (from the Persian word: \"koch\"; meaning \"migration\") are Afghan nomads primarily from the Ghilji tribal confederacy. Some of the most notable Ghilji Kochi tribes include the Kharoti, Andar AkaKhel and nasar Ahmadzai. Sometimes Durrani tribes can be found among the Kochi, and occasionally there may also be some Baloch people among them that live a pastoral nomadic lifestyle. In the Pashto language, the terms are Kochai (singular) and Kochian (plural). In the Persian language, \"Kochi\" and \"Kochiha\" are the singular and plural forms (respectively).\n\nThe National Multi-sectoral Assessment of Kochi in 2004, estimated that there are about 2.4 million Kochis in Afghanistan, with around 1.5 million (60%) remaining fully nomadic, and over 100,000 have been displaced due to natural disasters such as flood and drought in the past few years.\n\n\"The nomads and semi-nomads, generally called \"Kuchi\" in Afghanistan, mostly keep sheep and goats. The produce of the animals (meat, dairy products, hair and wool) is exchanged or sold in order to purchase grain, vegetables, fruit and other products of settled life. In this way an extensive network of exchange has developed along the main routes annually followed by the nomads. The merchant \"Powindah\" (Ghilji) [or Ghilzai] Pashtuns used to move annually from the Afghanistan mountains to the valley of the Indus. These long-distance migrations were stopped in the early 1960s when the border with Afghanistan and Pakistan were closed, but many Kuchis are still allowed to cross as border officials recognize the Kuchi migrations which occur seasonally and allow them to pass even in times of political turmoil. In recent decades, migrations inside Afghanistan continue, although trucks are now often being used to transport livestock and family from one place to another.\"\n\nKochis historically abstained from politics, because they are nomadic, but under Afghanistan's constitution, they were given ten seats in parliament. Provisions are written into the Afghanistan Constitution (Article 14) aimed at improving the welfare of Kochis, including provisions for housing, representation, and education. According to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, before the 30 years of war, Kochis owned 30 per cent of the country's goats and sheep and most of the camels for years, and they were largely responsible for the supply of slaughter animals, wool, ghee and quroot to the national economy. \n\nKochis were also favored by the Kings of Afghanistan, who were themselves ethnic Pashtuns, since the late 1880s. They were awarded \"firman,\" or royal proclamations, granting them use of summer pastures all over Afghanistan including the northern parts of the country. During the Taliban era, Kochis were a main factor and supporter of the Taliban and their leader Mohammed Omar As a result, the northern ethnic groups (Hazara, Tajiks, Uzbeks and Turkmens) have a long-standing distrust of the Kochi. This political dispute has been deepened over the decades of Kochi transhumance, whereby some Kochis became absentee landlords in their summer areas in the north through customary seizure procedures to attach debtors' land. However, the Kochis themselves see the northern minority groups as a non-Afghan race, and claims the Kochis were natives of northern Afghan region, and that during many years of invasion such as Genghis Khan and Timur, they escaped south.\n\nThe Kochis have been identified by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan as one of the largest vulnerable populations in the country. As Afghanistan's population grows, competing claims over summer pastures, both for rainfed cultivation and for grazing of the settled communities' livestock, have created conflict over land across central and northern Afghanistan. Paying head-count fees for each animal crossing someone else's property is exacting a harsh economic toll on the Kochi way of life, one that is already having to contend with recurrent droughts that are now occurring with increasing frequency. There are communities of Pashtun Kochi origin in other parts of the world as well, including in the Caribbean, Africa and Europe. In Pakistan, some Kochis are found in Karachi in Sindh.\n\nAccording to a classified cable sent by U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl Eikenberry—revealed by WikiLeaks—Abdul Wahab Sulemankheil, Director General (DG) of the Independent Directorate of Kochis, declared that more than half of the Taliban are Kochis, a figure doubted by Eikenberry:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33548699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33548699", "title": "Lenduic languages", "text": "Lenduic languages\n\nThe Lenduic languages of the Central Sudanic language family are a cluster of closely related languages spoken in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and slightly over the border into Uganda.\n\nThe languages are Lendu (Balendru), with over a million speakers, and the smaller Ngiti and Ndrulo, as well as perhaps an additional language or two among the 'dialects' o Balendru.\n\n"}
{"id": "5072353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5072353", "title": "List of Chinese American associations", "text": "List of Chinese American associations\n\n\"Some of these Chinese Associations may also exist outside the USA.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61963", "title": "List of Greek mythological figures", "text": "List of Greek mythological figures\n\nThe following is a list of gods, goddesses and many other divine and semi-divine figures from Ancient Greek mythology and Ancient Greek religion. (The list does not include creatures; for these, see List of Greek mythological creatures.)\n\nThe Greeks created images of their deities for many purposes. A temple would house the statue of a god or goddess, or multiple deities, and might be decorated with relief scenes depicting myths. Divine images were common on coins. Drinking cups and other vessels were painted with scenes from Greek myths.\n\nThe Titans and Titanesses are depicted in Greek art less commonly than the Olympians.\n\nThe Gigantes were the offspring of Gaia (Earth), born from the blood that fell when Uranus (Sky) was castrated by their Titan son Cronus, who fought the Gigantomachy, their war with the Olympian gods for supremecy of the cosmos, they include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22665637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22665637", "title": "Macedonian Bulgarians", "text": "Macedonian Bulgarians\n\nMacedonians or Macedonian Bulgarians (), sometimes also referred to as Macedono-Bulgarians or Macedo-Bulgarians are a regional, ethnographic group of ethnic Bulgarians, inhabiting or originating from the region of Macedonia. Today, the larger part of this population is concentrated in Blagoevgrad Province but much is spread across the whole of Bulgaria and the diaspora.\n\nThe Slavic population in the region of Macedonia had been referred to both (by themselves and outsiders) as Bulgarians, and that is how they were predominantly seen since 10th, up until the early 20th century. According to Encyclopædia Britannica, at the beginning of the 20th century the Macedonian Bulgarians constituted the majority of the population in the whole region of Macedonia, then part of the Ottoman Empire. The functioning of the Bulgarian Exarchate then aimed specifically at differentiating the Bulgarian from the Greek and Serbian populations on an ethnic and linguistic basis, providing the open assertion of a Bulgarian national identity. However one basic distinction between the political agendas of local intelligentsias was clear. The Macedonian Greeks and Serbs followed, in general, the directives coming from their respective centers of national agitation, while by the Bulgarians the term \"Macedonian\" was acquiring the significance of a certain political loyalty, that progressively constructed a particular spirit of \"regional\" identity. The Balkan Wars (1912–1913) and World War I (1914–1918) left Ottoman Macedonia divided between Greece, Serbia and Bulgaria and resulted in significant changes in its ethnic composition. The immediate effect of the partition of Ottoman Macedonia were the nationalistic campaigns in areas under Greek and Serbian administration, which expelled Bulgarian churchmen and teachers and closed Bulgarian schools and churches. As a consequence a sizable part of the Slavic population of Greek and Serbian (later Yugoslav Macedonia), fled to Bulgaria or was resettled there by virtue of a population exchange agreements. Within Greece, the Macedonian Slavs were designated \"Slavophone Greeks\", while within Serbia (later within Yugoslavia) they were officially treated as \"South Serbs\". In both countries, schools and the media were used to disseminate the national ideologies and identities, and also the languages, of the new ruling nations, the Greeks and the Serbs. These cultural measures were reinforced by steps to alter the composition of the population: Serb colonists were implanted in Yugoslav Macedonia, while in Greek Macedonia, the mass settlement of Greek refugees from Anatolia definitively reduced the Slav population to minority status.\n\nHowever most researchers agree that the bulk of the Slavic population in the region had a Bulgarian national identity until the early 1940s, when the Bulgarian troops, occupying most of the area, were greeted as liberators. Pro-Bulgarian feelings among the local Slavic population prevailed, including Greece and Yugoslavia. After the Second World War and Bulgarian withdrawal, on the base of the strong Macedonian \"regional\" identity a process of ethnogenesis started and distinct \"national\" Macedonian identity was formed. As a whole an appreciable Macedonian national consciousness prior to the 1940s did not exist. At that time even the political organization by the Slavic immigrants from the region of Macedonia, the Macedonian Patriotic Organization has also promoted the idea of Macedonian Slavs being Bulgarians. The nation-building process was politically motivated and later reinforced by strong \"Bulgarophobia\" and Yugoslavism. The new authorities began a policy of removing of any Bulgarian influence and creating a distinct Slavic consciousness that would inspire identification with Yugoslavia. With the proclamation of the new Socialist Republic of Macedonia, there were started measures that would overcome the pro-Bulgarian feeling among the population. It has been claimed that from 1944 till the end of the 1940s people espousing a Bulgarian ethnic identity had been oppressed. According to Bulgarian sources more than 100,000 men were imprisoned and some 1,200 prominent Bulgarians were sentenced to death. In addition, the inconsistent policy towards the Macedonian Bulgarians followed by Communist Bulgaria at that time has thrown most independent observers ever since into a state of confusion, as to the real ethnicity of the population even in Bulgarian Macedonia. Practically as a consequence the rest of this people, with exception of Bulgaria proper, were eventually Macedonized or Hellenized.\n\nNevertheless, people with Bulgarian consciousness or Bulgarophile sentiments still live in the Republic of Macedonia and Greece. During the last years the EU membership of Bulgaria has seen more than 50,000 Macedonians applying for Bulgarian citizenship. In order to obtain it they must sign a statement declaring they are \"Bulgarians by origin\". More than 70,000 Macedonian nationals have already received Bulgarian citizenship. However, this phenomenon can not give precise information about how many Macedonian nationals consider themselves Bulgarians in ethnic sense, because it is widely believed that this phenomenon is caused primarily for economic reasons.\n\nMacedonian Bulgarians have been influential in every field in Bulgarian society, including culture, science, literature, architecture, industry, sports, entertainment, government, and the military.\n\nMany Macedonian Bulgarians have played a prominent role in Bulgaria's independence struggle, such freedom fighters include Ilyo Voyvoda, Hristo Makedonski, Georgi Izmirliev, Ivan Apostolov, Trayko Kitanchev, Dine Abduramanov, Pere Toshev, Andon Dimitrov, Petar Poparsov, Hristo Tatarchev, Gotse Delchev, Ivan Hadzhinikolov, Apostol Petkov, Dame Gruev, Boris Sarafov, Kiryak Shkurtov, Aleksandar Turundzhev, Yane Sandanski, Vasil Chekalarov, Cyril Parlichev, Metody Patchev, Dimo Hadzhidimov, Nikola Karev, Slaveyko Arsov, Kosta Tsipushev, Mile Pop Yordanov, Lazar Poptraykov, Hristo Batandzhiev, Hristo Uzunov, Vasil Adzhalarski, Manush Georgiev, Georgi Sugarev, Todor Aleksandrov, Dimche Sarvanov, Petar Chaulev, Pavel Shatev, Panko Brashnarov, Andon Kyoseto, Ivan Naumov, Hristo Andonov, Ivan Mihailov, Dimitar Gyuzelov, Mara Buneva, etc.\n\nBulgarian generals and military officers Dimitar Popgeorgiev, Kliment Boyadzhiev, Konstantin Zhostov, Aleksandar Protogerov, Boris Drangov, Petar Darvingov and Kiril Yanchulev served in the Bulgarian Army in the Serbo-Bulgarian War, First Balkan War, Second Balkan War, World War I and World War II, respectively.\n\nPoliticians, government ministers and diplomats include Andrey Lyapchev, Dimitar Rizov, Nikola Stoyanov, Simeon Radev, Nikola Milev, Georgi Traykov, Metodi Shatorov, Anton Yugov, Georgi Pirinski, Sergey Stanishev, Rosen Plevneliev etc.\n\nMacedonian Bulgarians have also contributed to development of Bulgarian culture, art, literature and music, such as Paisius of Hilendar, Kiril Peychinovich, Neofit Rilski, Parteniy Zografski, Nathanael Ohridski, Daskal Kamche, Miladinov brothers, Marko Cepenkov, Grigor Parlichev, Lyubomir Miletich, Kuzman Shapkarev, Yordan Hadzhikonstantinov-Dzhinot, Hristo Silyanov, Dimitar Talev, Hristo Smirnenski, Atanas Dalchev, Nikola Vaptsarov, Voydan Chernodrinski, Atanas Badev, Rayko Aleksiev, Katya Paskaleva etc.\n\nSome, such as Central Sofia Market Hall architect Naum Torbov, left behind visible landmarks.\n\nOthers, including Baba Vanga and Mikhael Aivanhov, set intellectual landmarks.\n\nStill others, such as Dimitar Berbatov, Dimitar Yakimov, Aleksandar Tomov, Irina Nikulchina, Stoycho Mladenov, Georgi Slavkov, Ivan Lebanov, Vasil Metodiev, Nikola Kovachev, Boris Gaganelov, Spiro Debarski, Krasimir Bezinski, Petar Mihtarski, Ivaylo Andonov, Serafim Barzakov, Dimcho Belyakov, Stoycho Stoilov, Georgi Bachev, Kiril Georgiev and Nina Klenovska are prominent athletes and sports people.\n\n"}
{"id": "29245689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29245689", "title": "Maltese in Belgium", "text": "Maltese in Belgium\n\nMaltese in Belgium are people from Malta resident in Belgium, whether permanently or temporarily. They include Maltese who have acquired Belgian citizenship, students and workers with International organizations.\n\nBefore 2003, the Maltese in Belgium were mostly people married to Belgians who had emigrated to the country or Maltese diplomats. In 2003 the employment of Maltese nationals with the European Union (EU) started in earnest in view of Malta's membership of the organisation.\n\nBelgian national statistics show that the number of Maltese in Belgium stood at 252 as of 1 January 2008. Of these, 159 lived in Brussels, 70 in Flanders and 23 in Wallonia. This represents a significant increase over previous years: in 2005 the number of Maltese in Belgium stood at 133 and at 192 in 2006. \n\nA more recent estimate quotes the figure of 400 Maltese in Belgium in 2010.\n\nThe number of Maltese working with the EU institutions and consultative bodies is of 378 in 2016 (an increase over the 365 in 2013 and 324 in 2010). Of these 291 are permanent. As regards EU agencies, they employ 45 Maltese (increase on 33 in 2013), only one of which is permanent.\n\nMost of the Maltese are in Belgium because of their employment with the EU. It is in fact estimated that of the 324 Maltese employed with the EU in 2010, around 250 worked in Belgium. This is why they consider themselves to expatriates rather than emigrants as was the case with the Maltese Diaspora in the demographic movements of previous generations.\n\nThis also explains why most Maltese in Belgium either live in the Brussels-Capital Region or the municipalities bordering this region, in the area in and around the Brussels Ring.\n\nThe 2008 statistics indicate a community that's more or less evenly balanced between the sexes and whose members are predominantly in the 25-40 age groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "10679966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10679966", "title": "Moderna University", "text": "Moderna University\n\nModerna University (\"Universidade Moderna\") was a Portuguese private university headquartered in Lisbon, with departments in Setúbal, Porto and Beja. The institution was authorized by the Portuguese Ministry of Education to provide university higher education services in 1994 (Decree law: \"DL 313/94 de 23 de Setembro\"). It was shut down by the Portuguese Ministry for Science, Technology and Higher Education on 30 July 2008.\n\nIn 2007, the university was on the brink of being closed by the Portuguese ministry responsible for higher education in Portugal, after reports of several irregularities arise during a state-managed investigation on private higher education in the country. It was closed in the summer of 2008 by lack of economic and financial capacity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14016070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14016070", "title": "Murad Abro", "text": "Murad Abro\n\nMir Murad Abro () was a minister of the Balochistan Government. And a member of the Jamote Qaumi Movement. He was the son of Mir Abdul Malik Abro and brother of Mir Murtaza Abro. He died in a road accident in October 2008. He was a great politician of his time. He remained minister in the caretaker government of 2007-2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12768067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12768067", "title": "National Women's History Project", "text": "National Women's History Project\n\nThe National Women's History Project is an American non-profit organization dedicated to honoring and preserving women's history. Based out of Santa Rosa, California since 1980, it was started by women's history activists Molly Murphy MacGregor, Mary Ruthsdotter, Maria Cuevas, Paula Hammett and Bette Morgan.\n\nThe NWHP started by leading a coalition that successfully lobbied Congress to designate March as Women's History Month, now celebrated across the country. Today, the NWHP is known nationally as the only clearinghouse providing information and training in multicultural women’s history for educators, community organizations, and parents-for anyone wanting to expand their understanding of women contributions to U. S. history.\n\nFrom a Grassroots Organization into a National Institution \n• In 1980, the NWHP was a group of women who noticed that women were absent from textbooks. No more than 3% of the content was devoted to women. \n• Girls had few role models. Girls and boys and many adults assumed women did nothing important. The founders thought this perception needed to be addressed. \n• The NWHP convinced Congress and the White House of the need for our nation to celebrate and recognize women’s role in history on an annual basis. As a result of their efforts, the week of March 8 (International Women’s Day) was officially designated as Women’s History Week. In 1987, the NWHP led the successful campaign to have the entire month of March declared Women's History Month. \n• The NWHP mobilizes the national celebrations of Women's History Month in March each year by choosing an annual theme. \n• They promote a multicultural women’s history perspective by honoring women of diverse cultural, ethnic, occupational, racial, class, and regional backgrounds. \n• Every year the NWHP sends out 100,000 catalogs and distribute tens of thousands of women's history posters, celebratory materials, books, videos, and curriculum resources. \n• The NWHP website has over 1,000,000 visitors a year. Additionally, the staff answers over 2,500 e-mails and letters each year from students, teachers, reporters, and other interested individuals requesting information. \n• The staff has conducted women's history training sessions and women's historic site tours in 42 states, and has trained over 30,000 teachers and federal program managers and has delivered over 2,500 speeches. \n• The NWHP created a national clearinghouse to provide multicultural women's history information, materials, referrals, and strategies. This service also provides easy access to women's history performers, organizations, museums, and historic sites. \n• They have designed, developed, and produced more than 200 multicultural women’s history resource materials, such as videos, speeches, posters, celebratory items, guides, program kits, and curriculum units. \n• In 1995 and 1998, the NWHP led national campaigns to celebrate and recognize the work of women in expanding and enriching democracy. In 1995, they celebrated the 75th anniversary of women in the United States winning the right to vote and in 1998 the 150th anniversary of the Women's Rights Movement. In 2005, they celebrated the 85th anniversary of the ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment and the 25th anniversary of the women's history movement. In 2010 they marked the 90th anniversary of U.S. women gaining the right to vote. \n• In 1997 the NWHP launched a website to serve as the digital clearinghouse for multicultural women's history information. Today, this award-winning website is the first women's history choice on all website search engines. \n• The NWHP has worked with the President’s Commission on the Celebration of Women in American History. Executive director Molly Murphy MacGregor was appointed by the White House to serve on the Congressional Commission on Women's Historic Landmarks. \n• The NWHP believes that \"'Our History Is Our Strength\"'\n\nThe National Women’s History Project has been recognized for its groundbreaking work in education and its many nationally recognized programs and services by organizations throughout the country, including: \n• The National Association for Multicultural Education Award. \n• The Jessie Bernard Wise Women Award from the Center for Women Policy Studies. \n• The National Education Association’s prestigious Mary Hatwood Furtrell Award. \n• The Myra Sadker Equity Award for their work in achievement in gender equity.\n\nThe National Women’s History Project is an educational nonprofit organization whose mission is to recognize and celebrate the diverse and historic accomplishments of women by providing information and educational materials and programs.\n\nThey explain their mission this way: \"The impact of women’s history might seem abstract to some, and less pressing than the immediate struggles of working women today. But to ignore the vital role that women’s dreams and accomplishments play in our own lives would be a great mistake. We draw strength and inspiration from those who came before us – and those remarkable women working among us today. They are part of our story, and a truly balanced and inclusive history recognizes how important women have always been in American society.\" \n\nThe NWHP promotes women's history because, \"By walking history’s pathways, we learn to step forward with confidence. The legacy of how others shaped society sparks our own longings to contribute. Everyone needs role models — footsteps enough like our own to inspire us.\nHistory must tell the whole story. For girls, knowing women’s achievements expands their sense of what is possible. For all of us, knowledge of women’s strengths and contributions builds respect and nourishes self esteem — crucial to all children and adults now, and in the years to come.\" \nThe enduring goal of the NWHP is to \"“make history”\" accurate by continuing to recognize and celebrate women’s authentic contributions through current and future projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "35041820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35041820", "title": "Normanton incident", "text": "Normanton incident\n\nThe was a set of events surrounding the sinking of a British merchant vessel named \"Normanton\" off the coast of what is now Wakayama Prefecture on October 24, 1886. The vessel was registered to the Madamson & Bell Steamship Company when it ran aground and sank, drowning all the Japanese passengers aboard. The event sparked a major uproar in the Japanese population when the subsequent court case in the British Court for Japan highlighted the unjustness of the unequal treaties that were levied on Japan at the time by the leading countries of the West.\n\nOn the evening of October 24, 1886, the 240-ton British cargo ship \"Normanton\", laden with both goods and 25 Japanese passengers, left Yokohama Harbor and set sail for the port of Kobe around 8:00pm. However, en route to her destination she was caught in heavy wind and rains all the way from Yokkaichi in Mie Prefecture to the Cape of Kashinozaki in Wakayama Prefecture, where the vessel was wrecked. She ran aground on an offshore reef and was lost. The ship’s captain John William Drake and all European (ethnic British and German) crewmen escaped the sinking ship in lifeboats, leaving the non-European crewmen (twelve Indians and Chinese) and the 25 Japanese passengers aboard to fend for themselves. The Europeans were picked up by coastal fishermen who took them in. Three of the survivors of the shipwreck died of hypothermia and were buried once the crew reached the shore. None of the 25 Japanese passengers aboard the \"Normanton\" survived.\nOn October 28, Inoue Kaoru, Minister for Foreign Affairs for Prime Minister Itō Hirobumi's first cabinet, received a telegram from Matsumoto Kanae, Governor of Wakayama Prefecture, briefly outlining the events surrounding the shipwreck. He was alarmed by the fact that all the Japanese passengers were lost, and ordered an investigation of the situation on the spot. However, Japanese officials were hindered in their efforts to verify the facts of the incident by the wall imposed by the Unequal Treaties. Reportedly, they were never able to reach a satisfactory end to their investigation.\nAt a Marine Accident hearing at the British consulate in Kobe the following month, Captain Drake was declared innocent of any wrongdoing. James Troup, British Consul approved the following official statement on November 5. \"The crew urged the Japanese passengers to get to the lifeboats as quickly as possible, but the Japanese failed to understand the English instructions. In turn, they did not comply with the crew's wishes, but instead holed themselves up inside the ship and didn't even try to come out. The crew had no choice but to the leave the Japanese and take to the lifeboats. (Since the \"Normanton\" was a cargo ship, there was no staff in place to handle Japanese speaking passengers.)\" The captain and the crew were found not guilty by the investigation.\n\nPublic opinion in Japan was outraged over what was perceived to be a case of racial prejudice. A good example of public sentiment at the time can be found in the \"Tokyo Nichi Nichi Shimbun\" (forerunner of the \"Mainichi Shimbun,\" founded in 1872.) The paper reported in an outrage that, \"If the Captain and the more than 20 seamen under him were able to be rescued, it makes sense that at least one or two Japanese passengers would have been saved along with them. However, the ugly truth is all of them were lost.\" In another article, they claimed that, \"If the passengers had been Westerners, they would have been rescued immediately. These men were left to die because they were Japanese\".\n\nThe Japanese public was outraged on hearing the verdict. The following ran in the \"Tokyo Nichi Nichi Shinbun\", a paper that publicly protested the event in print. \"No matter how ignorant you may think the Japanese are, to claim that they could stare into the face of danger and fail to recognize the gravity of the situation is absurd. The idea that these people were too stupid to know how to save themselves or even get help from others is a grave fallacy.\" Donations poured in from all over the country to support the families of the victims who lost their lives. Entire newspapers covered nothing but stories about the incident for days on end, supported by mournful editorials and articles calling for the removal of the officials in question. Even well-known legal scholars openly accused Captain Drake. Fringe politicians across the land held open meetings in which they publicly condemned Britain's violence and record of violating human rights while they rallied for the return of political power to the Japanese people.\n\nSome English language newspapers were also shocked by the verdict. The North China Herald in Shanghai called the decision of the Board of Enquiry a \"farce\", a \"miscarriage of justice\" and a \"complete whitewash\"\n\nThe Japanese government had gone great lengths in trying to re-negotiate the Unequal Treaties. Foreign Minister Inoue had been a staunch supporter of the country's Europeanization by hosting elaborate balls at the \"Rokumeikan,\" however he could do nothing to silence the storm of domestic controversy rising across the land.\n\nOn November 13, he ordered the Governor of Hyogo Prefecture Utsumi Tadakatsu to prevent Captain Drake and crew from leaving Kobe's port, and brought charges of murder against the Captain and his men under the governor's name in the British Court for Japan in Yokohama (upper consular court). The prosecution took place the following day on 14th. The British held a preliminary hearing in Kobe, and then moved the case to Yokohama. On December 8, Judge Hannen of the British Court for Japan in Yokohama found Drake guilty of criminal negligence, and sentenced him to three months imprisonment. However, the British consular court rejected any compensation for the families of the victims. In sentencing Drake, Judge Hannen told him: \"We have been accustomed to expect from the merchant service of England heroism and devotion to the interests of the crew and passengers that I am afraid in this case were wanting.\"\n\nThe Normanton Incident fanned an increase in anti-British and anti-foreign sentiment in Japan, and was upheld as an example of the urgent need to revise the Unequal Treaties which Japan had signed with various foreign powers, especially with regards to clauses pertaining to extraterritoriality. The incident was picked up by the Solidarity Movement Party, then in its infant stages. They raised the issue all across the land, criticizing Inoue's handling of the situation as \"coquettish\" and \"cowardly\" diplomacy. As a result of this incident, the movement, which demanded foreign policy reform as well as the abolishment of the Unequal Treaties, was significantly strengthened.\n\nAfter the incident, there were some who hoped to turn the incident into a drama for the theater, but the government, fearing another flare up of civil unrest, effectively shut down the operation.\n\nAt the same time, a book entitled \"A Complete Guide to the Trial of the Events Surrounding the Sinking of the British Ship `Normanton`\" was published immediately after the incident occurred. \"The Court Records of the British Steamship \"Normanton\"\" were also published the following year in 1887.\n\nImmediately following the incident a song entitled \"The Normanton Sinks Beneath the Waves\" (Normanton-go chimbotsu no uta) was written anonymously and quickly caught on with people across the country. There were originally only 36 stanzas to the song, but by the time the incident had come to a close the number had ballooned to 59. The tune is set to the old military standard \"With Swords Drawn\" (original Japanese version: , \"battōtai\".)\n\nThe song begins with an ominous opening:\n\nThe roar of the waves pounding against the shore \nAwoken from a dream by a storm in the dead of night \nStaring out at the great blue expanse \nWondering where the hell my fellow countrymen are \n\nTry to call out, try to shout, but I have no voice \nI seek and search but find not even a shadow \nIf the rumors are true, the passing moon \nand twenty-five of our dearest brethren set sail\n\nGodspeed your journey as the crow flies \nWe know a little bit about foreign ships \nAnd we know those built by Brits \nAre famed for their nautical prowess\n\nLike lambs, we were led aboard the vessel \nwe passed all too quickly the 300 kilometers \nof distant wake and water to old Totomi \nonly to reach Kumano Inlet in Kishuu\n\nand then in the middle takes a surprising turn:\n\nO, the inhumanity of this foreign ship \nThe cruel and merciless captain \nWhose very name reeks of cowardice \nWatched their sorrowful plight from afar\n\nForgetting all of his responsibility \nHey made fast for a cowardly retreat \nDragging his men along with him \nThey jumped aboard the lifeboats\n\nThey see each others shadows off \nTears of regret cutting quick and deep \nThey wipe them down and fight them off \nYou're a hateful bastard, Drake\n\nNo matter how different your race may be \nNo matter how little you know of mercy \nYou just stood by and watched \nYou left us there to die, you coward\nThese are but a few lines; the song itself goes on to say many things.\n\nInfluenced by the events surrounding the Normanton Incident, a volunteer-based marine rescue group known at the time as the \"Great Empire of Japan Marine Rescue Group\" was formed in 1889. It is today known as \"Marine Rescue Japan\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33181647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33181647", "title": "Nyangbo-Tafi language", "text": "Nyangbo-Tafi language\n\nThe Nyangbo-Tafi language is spoken in the Volta Region of Ghana. It is considered one of the Ghana–Togo Mountain languages of the Kwa family.\n\nIt consists of two distinct varieties which \"Ethnologue\" treats as separate languages, Nyangbo (\"Tutrugbu\") and Tafi (\"Tegbo\"). The differences are reported to be only phonological.\n"}
{"id": "44534027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44534027", "title": "Perahan tunban", "text": "Perahan tunban\n\nPerahan tunban (Persian/, \"pērāhan wa tunbān\"), a form of shalwar kameez, is a male clothing worn by men in northwestern Pakistan and eastern Afghanistan.\n\nThe \"perahan\" (the top) is wide and loose with the sleeves also worn loose and pendent from the arms. The traditional \"perahan\" varies according to the region of Afghanistan with some ending at the knees and others midway between the calf and the feet (in which case small slits are created). The traditional \"perahan\" also buttons on either shoulder, is collarless and is meant to be loose. Further, the traditional \"perahan\" is wide but fits closer to the body down to the waist and then is loose and full down to the knees (thereby flaring out).\n\nThe \"tunban\" (lower garment) is worn loose and hanging. Some versions of the \"tunban\" have the ample folds gathered into plaits at the lower part of the legs, below the knees to the ankles and the loose part above overhangs in loops. The \"tunban\" therefore uses a lot of material so that it gathers around the waist and folds around the legs.\nThe modern \"Perahan tunban\" retains some of the loose features of the traditional \"Perahan tunban\" but is similar to the straight cut shalwar kameez. Some styles also have the buttons open at the front.\n\nThe modern \"Perahan\" uses side slits. However, unlike the straight cut kameez, the sides of the \"perahan\" are cut like an arch. The \"tunban\" can be a yard wide.\nA version of \"Perahan tunban\" known as the \"Kabuli suit\" or the \"Pathani suit\", has become very popular in recent years. The Pathani suit has collars and cuffed sleeves.\n\nThe popular embroidered \"perahan tunban\" for men is the type worn in Kandahar. The \"perahan\" is embroidered in traditional design and the \"tunban\" is left plain. This style is believed the most stylish for modern fashion. The men's \"perahan\" is finely embroidered in varied geometric patterns.\n"}
{"id": "6188931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6188931", "title": "Robert A. Gordon", "text": "Robert A. Gordon\n\nRobert A. Gordon (born August 10, 1932) is an American sociologist best known for his work on intelligence, criminality, and race.\n\nBorn in New York City, he served in the United States Army from 1955-1957. Gordon earned his B.A. from the College of the City of New York in 1957, then attended the University of Chicago, earning his M.A. in 1961 and his Ph.D. in 1963. That year, he began teaching at Johns Hopkins University, until retiring in 2005.\n\nHe was the second husband of Linda Gottfredson, and one of 52 signatories on \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence,\" a public statement written by Gottfredson, published in response to popular criticism of the conclusions presented in the controversial book \"The Bell Curve\". He has also criticized a 1994 ABC news report on the Pioneer Fund in an extensive commentary. Gordon and Gottfredson have both received money from the controversial fund. \nIn an interview Gordon stated in response to the question \"Do you think that people with low IQs should be paid to be sterilized?\" replied:\n"}
{"id": "31116228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31116228", "title": "Royal Noble Consort of Korean Kings", "text": "Royal Noble Consort of Korean Kings\n\nRoyal Noble Consort was the title of royal concubines of Korean kings (including the Three Kingdoms, Unified Silla, Goryeo and Joseon Dynasty periods). During the Joseon Dynasty (not including the Korean Empire at the end of Joseon), they were part of the \"naegung\" (내궁) and ranked beneath the queen, but above low-ranked concubines and court ladies (rank 5a and below). This meant that Royal Noble Consorts from rank 1 to 4 were considered part of the Royal Family.\n\nThus, the Queen Consort (jungjeon 중전) was followed by 4 categories of high-ranked royal consorts, with 2 levels each. Level a (jeong, 정) ranked above level b (jong, 종):\n\n1a. Bin 빈 (嬪): Royal Noble Consort rank 1<br>\n1b. Gwiin 귀인 (貴人)<br>\n2a. Soeui 소의 (昭儀): Royal Noble Consort rank 2<br>\n2b. Sukeui 숙의 (淑儀)<br>\n3a. Soyong 소용 (昭容): Royal Noble Consort rank 3<br>\n3b. Sukyong 숙용 (淑容)<br>\n4a. Sowon 소원 (昭媛): Royal Noble Consort rank 4<br>\n4b. Sukwon 숙원 (淑媛)<br> \n\nFor the rank of Bin, the King or Queen consort would attach a prefix in association with the character/personality of the Royal Consort, such as Huibin (Hui = Radiant), Sukbin (Suk = Clarity/Purity), Euibin (Eui = Appropriate/Fitting), and so forth. However, they are all of the same rank \"Bin\" so they are all of equal rank.\n\n5a. \"sanggung\" (상궁 or 尙宮) and \"sangeui\" (상의 or 尙儀)\nCourt Ladies who served directly under the royal family members, and the head manager of their assigned department. Depending on their role and department, there would be internal ranking within the sanggung. For example, a sanggung who served the Queen has higher authority and ranking than a sanggung who serves a prince, princess, and/or concubine. A sanggung could also become a \"Royal Concubine\" if the King showed favor. They would be called \"favored sanggung\" and would be considered the highest rank of the 5a. However, since they are still in the rank of 5, the \"favored sanggung\" would not be considered a member of the royal family, part of the naegung, and considered a Royal Noble Consort. Instead, they would just be known as a concubine of the rank of sanggung. However, the favored sanggung would have a sanggung of her own to serve her.\n\n5b to 9b. Rankings of the lower class palace ladies and girls. Palace ladies are usually admitted into the palace from a young age. Therefore, the palace becomes their primary residence. They are not allowed to leave the palace except on special occasions with the permission of the higher ranking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5866760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5866760", "title": "Snatch theft", "text": "Snatch theft\n\nSnatch theft is a criminal act, common in Southeast Asia, South America, and Southern Europe, of forcefully stealing a pedestrian's personal property by employing rob-and-run tactics. \n\nIt is typical for two thieves to work together and ride a motorcycle, moped, or other type of motorbike to make theft and escape easier. One person steers the vehicle while another, the snatcher, does the act of theft itself. However, some snatch thieves work alone or do not use a vehicle to escape.\n\nIn Argentina this form of robbery increased by 118% between the years 2008 and 2009, possibly because motorbikes have become a lot cheaper and more accessible to the public. In that country, the perpetrators are called \"motochorros\", a neologism from the words \"moto\" (motorcycle) and \"chorro\" (a vulgar term for \"thief\").\n\nA growing problem in Malaysia, some instances of snatch theft have caused fatalities, when the person holding onto the handbag has been dragged by the motorbike, or through subsequent acts of violence. This, combined with the apparent lack of police control over crime, has prompted outrage among its citizens enough to take justice into their own hands in apprehending thieves.\n\nIn the Philippines, a crime including snatch theft that is committed by two persons or more is called \"riding in tandem\". The term normally applies to two men riding on a motorcycle in tandem. The phrase \"riding in tandem\" was suggested as a 2014 \"Filipino word of the year\". \n\nIn Mandaluyong City, an ordinance was passed to counter the crimes committed by persons riding in tandem. For easy identification, Dagupan City, Cotabato City, Dumaguete City and Batac, Ilocos Norte have local laws prohibiting motorcycle riders from wearing helmets. In Quezon City, the local police considered a measure that would require riders of motorcycles to wear vests displaying the license plate numbers of their vehicles. \n\nDue to the rise of riding in tandem crimes, Philippine Senator Tito Sotto proposed a bill that would allow motorcycles to be ridden only by one person, with some exceptions. According to the Philippine National Police, there were more than 3,000 cases involving crimes related to \"riding in tandem\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24524288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24524288", "title": "St Ninian's Isle Treasure", "text": "St Ninian's Isle Treasure\n\nThe St Ninian's Isle Treasure found on St Ninian's Isle, Shetland, Scotland, is the best survival of Scottish silver metalwork from the Early Medieval period, some pieces gilded. There are pieces for secular use such as a series of different penannular brooches (some of them probably as unfinished half-ware) and different chapes from sword scabbards, pieces which might have been used for religious ceremonies and rituals like the bowls, spoons, and \"thimbles\" and all of those joined with some pieces of unsure meanings like the heavy ring chains or collars which are referred to as \"power symbols of Pictish chieftains\" by some scholars. The brooches show a variety of typical Pictish forms, with both animal-head and lobed geometrical forms of terminal. Two of the scabbard chapes and a sword pommel appear to be Anglo-Saxon pieces, probably made in Mercia in the late 8th century; one has an inscription with a prayer in Old English. One of the mounts has a triple spiral design. We know of exchanges of gifts between Anglo-Saxon and Pictish rulers, and generally \"weapons are among the objects which travelled most widely in the early medieval period\".\n\nThe treasure was discovered under a cross-marked slab in the floor of the early St. Ninian's church, on 4 July 1958 by a local schoolboy, Douglas Coutts. Coutts was helping visiting archaeologists led by Professor A. C. O'Dell of Aberdeen University at a dig on the isle. The silver bowls, jewellery and other pieces are believed to date from approx. 800 AD.\n\nThe treasure was donated to the National Museum of Antiquities of Scotland (NMAS) in 1965-6 and is now in the successor Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh, whilst replicas are held by the Shetland Museum.\n\nProfessor Andrew Charles O'Dell, writing in December 1959 in \"Antiquity\" magazine, recounts that:<br>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24087019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24087019", "title": "Sulgrave Club", "text": "Sulgrave Club\n\nThe Sulgrave Club is a private club located at 1801 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., on Embassy Row in the Dupont Circle neighborhood of Washington D.C., United States.\n\nBuilt in 1900 for Herbert and Martha Blow Wadsworth as a winter residence, the building was completed under the name of Wadsworth House. Herbert Wadsworth was the grandson of James Wadsworth (of Geneseo). Martha Blow Wadsworth was from St. Louis, Missouri and a descendant of Henry Taylor Blow. In 1918 the Wadsworths donated the mansion to the Red Cross, who sold it to Mabel Thorp Boardman and a group of women in 1932, for $125,000. The women renamed it the Sulgrave Club, a club intended for music, art and social gatherings. The new club's name came from Sulgrave, the civil parish in Northamptonshire, England that had been the ancestral family home of George Washington.\n\nThe Sulgrave Club was designed by Frederick H. Brooke in a Beaux-Arts design from the 18th century. It is one of Washington's first mansions to follow this style of architecture. The house was built of yellow Roman brick and cream terra cotta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2676014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2676014", "title": "Sultanate of Lahej", "text": "Sultanate of Lahej\n\nLahej ( '), the Sultanate of Lahej ( '), or, sometimes, the Abdali Sultanate ( \")\", was a Sheikdom based in Lahej in Southern Arabia. The Sultanate became self-ruled in 1728 and gained independence in 1740. In 1839, the Sultanate became Aden Protectorate of the British Empire, though nominally the 'Abdali Sultan retained his status. The Aden Protectorate was briefly ruled again by the Ottomans during World War I, but regained by the British and absorbed into Federation of South Arabia in 1963. The 'Abdali dynasty was officially abolished in 1967, with the proclamation of South Yemen.\n\nLahej was sultanate of the 'Abdali dynasty. In 1740 the 'Abdali sultan became independent. The Sultanate of Lahej became an independent entity, from 1728 to 1839.\n\nThe Sultanate of Lahej lost its independence to the British, after the Royal Navy Aden Expedition attack in 1839. The Sultan signed several treaties with the British. The 1863 opening of the Suez Canal caused the formation of the Aden Protectorate\n\nThe sultanate was one of the original \"Nine Cantons\" that signed individual British protectorate agreements with Great Britain, that in 1869 were joined together to become the Aden Protectorate. The Suez Canal also opened in 1869.\n\nDuring World War I, the Ottoman Empire subjugated the Sultanate area. In 1918 Lahej was captured from Ottoman Empire suzerainty and restored as a British protectorate.\n\nLahej typically enjoyed good relations with the British, despite the accidental killing of Sultan Fadhl ibn Ali al Abdali by British troops in 1918 who mistook him for an enemy Ottoman Turk soldier. In 1948, the Subayhi tribal area was absorbed into their sultanate.\n\nHowever, by 1958, Britain was worried that the sultan at the time, \"Ali bin Abd al Karim al Abdali\", an Arab nationalist, would refuse to join the British-sponsored Federation of Arab Emirates of the South, and had him deposed. Lahej ended up joining the Federation and later the Federation of South Arabia in 1963.\n\nIn 1967 the new Communist regime expelled the Abdali Sultan. The dynasty of the Sultanate of Lahej was abolished with the founding of the Socialist state of People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (1967–1990).\n\nThe former territory of the Sultanate has been within the Republic of Yemen since its unification in 1990.\n\nThe Sultans of Lahej had the title of \"Sultan Lahj\".\n\n\nThe Sultanate of Lahej and others surrounding the Port of Aden had economic influence by supporting the important trade economy of the British Empire from South Asia. Early 19th century industrial Britain, with its rapidly expanding economy, needed improved and reliable communication with British India and the East India Company operations.\n\nThe 1863 opening of the Suez Canal initiated further British trade protection strategies, securing the port of Adan and surroundings to serve the Red Sea shipping routes using its new canal. The Sultanate was part of an effort of the British Empire to protect the East India Route, the sea route between the Mediterranean and India, in and through the southern coasts of the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nAs of 1920, the Lahej region was producing salt, from salt mines owned by the Ottoman government, that passed through the Sultanate for shipping.\n\n"}
{"id": "13855101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13855101", "title": "Tswa–Ronga languages", "text": "Tswa–Ronga languages\n\nThe Tswa–Ronga languages are a group of closely related Southern Bantu languages spoken in Southern Africa chiefly in southern Mozambique, northeastern South Africa and southeastern Zimbabwe.\n\nThe group is divided into three main languages:\n\n\"Tsonga\" is used to refer to all three languages, although often used interchangeably with Changana, the most prestigious of the three. All are recognized as languages, although inherently intelligible. The group also contains a variety of other minority languages and dialects which are undocumented and exist in an unwritten form.\n\nThe \"sintu\" writing system, \"Ditema tsa Dinoko\" (also known in Zulu as \"Isibheqe Sohlamvu\"), for Southern Bantu languages, is used to represent all Tswa-Ronga languages consistently under one orthography. This includes those marginal languages that have never been standardised in the Latin alphabet, such as the \"East Sotho\" varieties (Pulana, Khutswe and Pai). For example, it contains a specific grapheme indicating retroflex or \"cerebral\" consonants, such as the retroflex ejective affricate occurring here in Pai:\n"}
{"id": "20348953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20348953", "title": "Vietnam War POW/MIA issue", "text": "Vietnam War POW/MIA issue\n\nThe Vietnam War POW/MIA issue concerns the fate of United States servicemen who were reported as missing in action (MIA) during the Vietnam War and associated theaters of operation in Southeast Asia. The term also refers to issues related to the treatment of affected family members by the governments involved in these conflicts. Following the Paris Peace Accords of 1973, 591 American prisoners of war (POWs) were returned during Operation Homecoming. The U.S. listed about 2,500 Americans as prisoners of war or missing in action but only 1,200 Americans were reported to have been killed in action with no body recovered. Many of these were Airmen who were shot down over North Vietnam or Laos. Investigations of these incidents have involved determining whether the men involved survived being shot down. If they did not survive, then the U.S. government considered efforts to recover its soldiers' remains. POW/MIA activists played a role in pushing the U.S. government to improve its efforts in resolving the fates of these missing soldiers. Progress in doing so was slow until the mid-1980s, when relations between the U.S. and Vietnam began to improve and more cooperative efforts were undertaken. Normalization of U.S. relations with Vietnam in the mid-1990s was a culmination of this process.\n\nConsiderable speculation and investigation has contributed to a hypothesis that a significant number of missing U.S. soldiers from the Vietnam Conflict were captured as prisoners of war by Communist forces and kept as live prisoners after U.S. involvement in the war concluded in 1973. A vocal group of POW/MIA activists maintains that there has been a concerted conspiracy by the Vietnamese and American governments since then to hide the existence of these prisoners. The U.S. government has steadfastly denied that prisoners were left behind or that any effort has been made to cover up their existence. Popular culture has reflected the \"live prisoners\" theory, most notably in the 1985 film \"\". Several congressional investigations have looked into the issue, culminating with the largest and most thorough, the United States Senate Select Committee on POW/MIA Affairs of 1991–1993 led by Senators John Kerry, Bob Smith, and John McCain. It found \"no compelling evidence that proves that any American remains alive in captivity in Southeast Asia.\"\n\nThe issue has been a highly emotional one to those involved, and is often considered the last depressing, divisive aftereffect of the Vietnam War for the United States.\n\nThe origins of the POW/MIA issue date back to during the war itself. Suffering from a lack of accurate intelligence sources inside North Vietnam, the U.S. never had solid knowledge for how many American prisoners of war were held. Indeed, the U.S. often relied upon possibly inaccurate North Vietnamese newspapers and radio broadcasts to find out who had been captured, as well as memorized lists of names brought out by the few American POWs given early release. As the Department of Defense built up lists of those in the categories of killed in action, killed in action/body not recovered, prisoner of war, and missing in action, its tentative numbers fluctuated, but most of the time, the number of expected returnees upon war's end was around 600. However, the Nixon administration had made return of the POWs one of its central arguments to the American public for prolonging the war and bringing North Vietnam to terms. In doing so, the administration exaggerated the number of POWs at issue, at one point stating that there were \"fifteen hundred American servicemen\" held throughout Southeast Asia. These higher numbers would be the focus of much of the controversy in the issue to come.\n\nFollowing the Paris Peace Accords of January 1973, U.S. prisoners of war were returned during Operation Homecoming during February through April 1973. During this, 591 POWs were released to U.S. authorities; this included a few captured in Laos and released in North Vietnam. U.S. President Richard Nixon announced that all U.S. servicemen taken prisoner had been accounted for. At that time, the U.S. listed 2,646 Americans as unaccounted for, including about 1,350 prisoners of war or missing in action and roughly 1,200 reported killed in action and body not recovered. The low numbers of returnees from Laos caused some immediate concern, as previous Pentagon estimates were as high as 41 for prisoners held there, although only a few had been known to be captured for certain.\n\nInvestigation of the fate of all the missing service personnel would end up residing with the Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office. The Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command also played a major role in subsequent investigations. In 1973, the Defense Department established the Central Identification Laboratory–Thailand to coordinate POW/MIA recovery efforts in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe U.S. conducted some limited operations in South Vietnam in 1974 to find the remains of those missing, and pursuant to the Paris Accords, the North Vietnamese returned some remains too. These efforts halted following the collapse of the Accords and the fall of South Vietnam in 1975, and over the next ten years, little progress was made in recovering remains.\n\nDuring the late 1970s and 1980s, the friends and relatives of unaccounted-for American personnel became politically active, requesting the United States government reveal what steps were taken to follow up on intelligence regarding last-known-alive MIAs and POWs. When initial inquiries revealed important information had not been pursued, many families and their supporters asked for the public release of POW/MIA records and called for an investigation.\n\nIn 1979, the re-emergence of U.S. Private First Class Bobby Garwood constituted the only POW to surface following the end of the war and release of prisoners. Garwood is considered by the Department of Defense to have acted as a collaborator with the enemy after he was taken prisoner, while it is claimed by proponents of the \"live prisoners\" belief, and by Garwood himself, that he was an American POW abandoned by the military.\n\nThe National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia was created by Sybil Stockdale, Evelyn Grubb and Mary Crowe as an originally small group of POW/MIA wives in Coronado, California and Hampton Roads, Virginia in 1967. Sybil Stockdale's husband, Navy Commander James Stockdale, was shot down in 1965 and she was determined to make the American people aware of the mistreatment of U.S. POWs. This publicity resulted in better treatment of U.S. POWs from fall 1969 on.\n\nAfter the war, the National League of Families became the leading group requesting information about those still listed as missing in action. It was led by Ann Mills Griffiths. Its stated mission was and is \"to obtain the release of all prisoners, the fullest possible accounting for the missing and repatriation of all recoverable remains of those who died serving our nation during the Vietnam War in Southeast Asia.\" The League's most prominent symbol is its POW/MIA flag. Newt Heisley designed this flag to represent America's missing men. This group was more established, less radical, and more connected to the government.\n\nThe National Alliance of Families For the Return of America's Missing Servicemen was founded in 1990. Its goal was and is to resolve the fates of any unreturned U.S. prisoners of war or missing in action from World War II on forward, not just Southeast Asia, and to gain the return of any live prisoners. It is a 1980s-origined splinter from the National League of Families, created by members who were dissatisfied with Ann Mills Griffiths' leadership. Compared to the older group, the National Alliance took a more activist, radical stance, especially towards belief in the existence of live prisoners in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe chair and co-founder of the group is Dolores Apodaca Alfond, whose brother Major Victor Joe Apodaca, Jr. was shot down in 1967 during the Vietnam War. The group was visible during the Kerry Committee hearings of the early 1990s, but disagreed with the committee's findings that there was no compelling evidence of any live prisoners in Southeast Asia.\n\nBusinessman and POW/MIA advocate Ross Perot, who had done much to help POW families during the war, was also very active on this issue.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, the U.S. and Vietnam increased the frequency of high-level policy and technical meetings to help resolve the POW/MIA issue. The U.S. government viewed this work as a humanitarian obligation. The Vietnamese slowly began to return American remains that they had previously collected and stored; eventually they permitted the U.S. to excavate a few crash sites. The Lao government, with whom the USG maintained diplomatic relations, also agreed to several crash-site excavations in the mid-1980s. This resulted in the return and identification of the remains of a few dozen Americans. In Cambodia, political turmoil prevented such efforts.\n\nA number of individuals were not satisfied with or did not trust U.S. government actions in this area and took their own initiative. Retired Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Jack Bailey created Operation Rescue, which featured a former smuggling boat named \"Akuna III\" and solicited funds from POW/MIA groups. Bailey never produced any prisoners and the boat spent years never leaving its dock in Songkhla in Thailand, but the effort proved adept at bringing in money through the Virginia-based Eberle Associates direct mail marketing firm. It was later revealed that Bailey had greatly exaggerated his military record.\n\nDuring the 1980s, former United States Army Special Forces member Bo Gritz undertook a series of private trips into Southeast Asia, purportedly to locate American POWs whom some believed were still being held by Laos and Vietnam, for example at location Nhommarath. These missions were heavily publicized, controversial and widely decried as haphazard — for instance, as some commentators stated, few successful secret missions involve bringing to the border towns women openly marketing commemorative POW-rescue T-shirts.\n\nOne such mission in 1982 was to free POWs reported to be in Laos; Gritz led 15 Laotians and 3 Americans, but they were ambushed shortly after crossing the border from Vietnam to Laos and the mission failed. Command Sergeant Major Eric L. Haney, a former Delta Force operator and a holder of the \"live prisoners\" belief, later wrote that beginning in 1981 his unit was twice told to prepare for a mission involving the rescue of American POWs from Vietnam, but both times the missions were scrubbed, according to Haney, when Gritz suddenly appeared in the spotlight, drawing too much attention to the issue and making the missions too difficult to accomplish. The U.S. National Security Council would eventually say of him: \"Throughout his years of involvement, Mr. Gritz contributed nothing of value to the POW/MIA issue. In fact, his activities have been counter-productive.\"\n\nAnother figure of the 1980s was Scott Barnes, who claimed he had both been in a secret operation in Cambodia and had seen an American POW. His actions caused significant dissension among POW/MIA activists, especially once he claimed that he had seen more American POWs in Laos but had been ordered by the Central Intelligence Agency to assassinate them. He published the 1987 book \"BOHICA\" that related this story. The National League of Families ended up accusing him of exploiting the MIA issue for personal gain, as one wife had mortgaged her house to fund him. Barnes, who had concocted much of his purported military background, would subsequently become a controversial figure within Ross Perot's 1992 presidential campaign.\n\nA former American POW, Eugene \"Red\" McDaniel, also became convinced that American prisoners had been left behind, and became active in the issue during the 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nIn the words of one analysis, \"The notion that the United States may have left men behind was hard to fathom, and Americans chose to partly solve this complex problem through fictional characters.\"\n\nThis was especially true in American films. The first was Chuck Norris's 1978 \"Good Guys Wear Black\", which postulated a cynical U.S. government writing off MIAs with a bogus mission. 1983's \"Uncommon Valor\", starring Gene Hackman, followed suit, as did Norris again in 1984 with \"Missing in Action\".\n\nBy far the most visible film in this theme was Sylvester Stallone's \"\" in 1985, which did the most to popularize the idea that American POWs had been left behind after the war and that the government had no real interest in their rescue. The Rambo character, who in this film may have been partly modeled after Bo Gritz, was a Vietnam veteran commando still haunted by the multiple failures of the war. The pivotal moment of the film occurs when Rambo, realizing he was betrayed by the U.S. government and under torture from the Vietnamese and their Soviet allies, is put into radio communication with the officer who ordered the mission and tells him, \"Murdoch. I'm coming to get \"you\"!\" Rambo and the Norris films were commercially successful in both the United States and in Thailand and other parts of Southeast Asia, and did much to perpetuate the stock image of American prisoners held in bamboo cages.\n\n\"Rambo\" was followed by Norris's 1985 prequel \"\", as well as other films such as \"P.O.W. The Escape\" (1986) and \"Dog Tags\" (1990) that shared similar conceits. The Vietnam war POW/MIA issue was also explored in some U.S. television series. The long-running series \"Magnum, P.I.\" included multiple episodes in the mid-late-1980s whose central theme was the possibility of American POWs remaining in Vietnam. The 1997 \"The X-Files\" episode \"Unrequited\" also dealt with this notion. The POW/MIA issue was also part of a key story-line in the series \"JAG\" in the late 1990s where the father of central character Harmon Rabb had been an MIA in Vietnam. During the second, third and fourth seasons, evidence gradually mounted that Harm Sr. had been relocated to the Soviet Union where he had later escaped and been killed by Soviet soldiers in Siberia.\n\nMany Vietnam War songs released in the United States dealt with the POW/MIA issue, but most were quite obscure and never achieved an audience. In the early-to-mid-1970s they largely looked at welcoming the prisoners home, and the impact of the war on veterans and their families. The only one to become a hit was Merle Haggard's 1972 number one country single \"I Wonder If They Ever Think of Me\". In the 1980s, some POW/MIA songs took a similar approach to American Vietnam War films, which suggested that many hundreds of U.S. prisoners remained in Vietnam and that the U.S. government had abandoned them.\n\nSeveral committee investigations within the U.S. Congress took place over the years. Some members of Congress were quite active on the issue.\n\nFor Vietnam veteran Bob Smith, Representative and later Senator from New Hampshire, the fate of possible missing or captured Americans in Vietnam had been Smith's major issue since his arrival in Congress in 1985. His interest was partly motivated by his own experience growing up without knowing how his own father died in World War II.\n\nNorth Carolina Congressman Bill Hendon, who served two terms in the early-mid-1980s, was also quite active on the issue. He and Smith met with President Ronald Reagan in January 1986 to discuss their belief that Vietnam was still holding American prisoners, and that U.S. intelligence agencies knew this but that the bureaucracy within the agencies was covering it up from even the Secretary of Defense. Reagan termed Hendon \"way out yonder\" on the issue, and after Vice President George H. W. Bush reported that even Smith would not agree with Hendon on some of these claims, Reagan concluded that \"Bill is off his rocker\".\n\nNew York Congressman John LeBoutillier, who served one term in the early 1980s, became interested in politics due to POW matters. After leaving Congress, he continued to be active in POW/MIA affairs. He founded the Sky Hook II Project, dedicated to recovering living American POWs in Southeast Asia. He has made frequent trips to Laos and Vietnam and also met with Laotian and Vietnamese leaders in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Jakarta, Vientiane, and western cities.\n\nAnother political figure active in the POW/MIA issue was Tom Walsh, who became mayor of Casper, Wyoming, and a three-term member of the Wyoming House of Representatives. Walsh made fourteen trips, at his own expense, to search for information on POWs and MIAs.\n\nThe POW/MIA issue heated up in the early 1990s. Serious charges were leveled at the Bush administration (1989 to 1993) regarding the POW/MIA issue. The United States Department of Defense, headed by Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney, was accused of covering up information and failing to properly pursue intelligence about American POW/MIAs.\n\nRanking minority member on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, became interested in the matter. In October 1990 his chief staff aide, James P. Lucier, prepared a report stating that it was probable there were live POWs still being held and that the Bush administration was complicit in hiding the facts. The report also alleged that the Soviet Union had held American prisoners after the end of World War II and more may have been transferred there during the Korean War and the Vietnam War. Helms stated that the \"deeper story\" was a possible \"deliberate effort by certain people in the government to disregard all information or reports about living MIA-POWs.\" This allegation was followed in May 1991 by Helms' release of a minority report of the Foreign Relations Committee, entitled \"An Examination of US Policy Toward POW/MIAs\", which made similar claims and concluded that \"any evidence that suggested an MIA might be alive was uniformly and arbitrarily rejected...\" The issuance of the report angered other Republicans on the committee, and after charges were made that the report contained errors, innuendo, and unsubstantiated rumors, Helms distanced himself from the POW/MIA issue. (This and other personnel matters led to Helms firing Lucier in January 1992.)\n\nA July 1991 \"Newsweek\" cover photograph purported to show three American POWs still being held against their will, which increased general public interest in the issue. However, the photograph turned out to be a hoax. Polls showed that a majority of Americans believed live POWs were indeed still being held captive; a July 1991 \"Wall Street Journal\" poll showed 70 percent of Americans believing this, and that three-fourths of them believed the U.S. government was not doing what needed to be done to gain their release.\n\nInterest in the matter intensified in June 1992 when President of the Russian Federation Boris Yeltsin told NBC News in an interview that some Americans captured during the Vietnam War may have been transferred from Hanoi to the Soviet Union: \"Our archives have shown that it is true, some of them were transferred to the territory of the former U.S.S.R. and were kept in labor camps. We don't have complete data and can only surmise that some of them may still be alive.\"\n\nRoss Perot stated that he believed that hundreds of American servicemen were left behind in Southeast Asia at the end of the U.S. involvement in the war, and that government officials were covering up POW/MIA investigations in order to not reveal a drug smuggling operation used to finance a secret war in Laos.\n\nRetired United States Army General, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and current head of the American POW/MIA delegation in Hanoi, John Vessey, defended administrations' and the military's role in trying to get the Vietnamese to improve their efforts in ascertaining the fate of missing U.S. personnel. Vessey had succeeded in 1988 in convincing the Vietnamese to permit U.S. search teams to operate throughout the country. Vessey categorically rejected the notion of a government conspiracy, saying that he had never seen evidence of one at any time in his military career, and adding that, \"American soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines are not conspirators.\" United States Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney said that Vietnamese cooperation was improved but still needed much more improvement.\n\nFor critics and skeptics, the allegations fail to convincingly answer the question as to what reason the Vietnamese (and other neighboring countries) would have to hang on to living prisoners. They could have been returned post-war, or being inconvenient witnesses to abuse more easily simply murdered. Proponents of the theory often claimed that the prisoners were initially held back as part of a scheme to gain war reparations from the U.S., as cheap labor, or both, and then were continued to be held so that the Vietnamese would not have to admit to what they had done.\n\nSenator Bob Smith introduced a 1991 resolution to create a Senate Select POW/MIA Committee. Senator and fellow Vietnam War veteran John Kerry was the chair of the committee, and its third key member was Senator and former Vietnam War POW John McCain. Compared to earlier congressional investigations into the POW/MIA issue, this one had a mandate to be more skeptical and ask harder questions of government officials than before. The committee's work included more visits to Vietnam and getting the Department of Defense to declassify over a million pages of relevant documents. Kerry and McCain said that they had gotten the Vietnamese to give them full access to their records, and that they had spent thousands of hours trying to find real, not fabricated, evidence of surviving Americans.\n\nSome of the most publicized testimony before the committee came in September 1992, when former Nixon Defense Secretaries Melvin Laird and James Schlesinger said that the U.S. government had believed in 1973 that some American servicemen had not been returned from Laos, despite Nixon's public statements to the contrary. Schlesinger said, \"As of now, I can come to no other conclusion. [But] that does not mean there are any alive today.\" Laird said in retrospect of Nixon's assurances that all POWs were coming home, \"I think it was unfortunate to be that positive. You can't be that positive when we had the kind of intelligence we had.\" In reaction to the testimony, Kerry said, \"I think it's quite extraordinary when two former secretaries of defense both give evidence documenting that they had information, or they believed personally, that people were alive and not accounted for in Operation Homecoming.\"\n\nThe committee issued its unanimous findings on January 13, 1993. In response to the central question of whether any American POWs were still in captivity, it stated:\nWith specific regard to the \"some evidence\", the committee said this: \"But neither live-sighting reports nor other sources of intelligence have provided grounds for encouragement,[12] particularly over the past decade. The live-sighting reports that have been resolved have not checked out; alleged pictures of POWs have proven false; purported leads have come up empty; and photographic intelligence has been inconclusive, at best.\" Two senators, Smith and Grassley, dissented at note 12, with the report saying \"they believe that live-sighting reports and other sources of intelligence are evidence that POWs may have survived to the present.\"\n\nWith regard to the possibility that American POWs survived in Southeast Asia after Operation Homecoming, the committee said this: \"We acknowledge that there is no proof that U.S. POWs survived, but neither is there proof that all of those who did not return had died. There is evidence, moreover, that indicates the possibility of survival, at least for a small number, after Operation Homecoming.\"\n\nCommittee vice-chairman Smith seemed to back away from the committee's findings within months of their being issued, appearing in April 1993 on \"Larry King Live\" with POW/MIA activist Bill Hendon, stressing his partial dissent from the majority report and touting new evidence of North Vietnam having held back prisoners in 1973, and then in the Senate in September 1993, saying he had \"very compelling\" new evidence of live prisoners. He also asked the Justice Department to investigate ten federal officials for perjury and other crimes in conjunction with a cover-up of POW/MIA investigations, In what he dubbed \"Operation Clean Sweep\", Smith said the targeted officials had a \"mind-set to debunk\". Kerry and McCain both denounced Smith's actions, with McCain saying \"In my dealings with these people, it is clear that mistakes may have been made in a very complex set of issues. But at no time was there any indication that they were giving anything but their most dedicated efforts. I frankly don't feel it's appropriate to publicly make these charges without public substantiation.\" Defense Secretary Les Aspin said the charges were unwarranted.\n\nIn 1994, journalist Sydney Schanberg, who had won a Pulitzer Prize in the 1970s for his \"New York Times\" reporting in Cambodia, wrote a long article for \"Penthouse\" magazine in which he said the committee had been dominated by a faction led by Kerry that \"wanted to appear to be probing the prisoner issue energetically, but in fact, they never rocked official Washington's boat, nor did they lay open the 20 years of secrecy and untruths.\" Schanberg stated that key committee staff had had too close a relationship with the Department of Defense, and that while other committee investigators were able to get evidence of men left behind into the full body of the report, the report's conclusions \"were watered down and muddied to the point of meaninglessness.\" Kerry denied that the committee had engaged in any cover-up.\n\nThe Kerry committee did little to soften the attitudes of those directly involved in the issue. To skeptics, \"live prisoners\" remained a conspiracy theory unsupported by motivation or evidence, and the foundation for a cottage industry of charlatans who preyed upon the hopes of the families of the missing. As two skeptics wrote in 1995, \"The conspiracy myth surrounding the Americans who remained missing after Operation Homecoming in 1973 had evolved to baroque intricacy. By 1992, there were thousands of zealots—who believed with cultlike fervor that hundreds of American POWs had been deliberately and callously abandoned in Indochina after the war, that there was a vast conspiracy within the armed forces and the executive branch—spanning five administrations—to cover up all evidence of this betrayal, and that the governments of Communist Vietnam and Laos continued to hold an unspecified number of living American POWs, despite their adamant denials of this charge.\" Believers continued to strongly reject such notions; as one wrote in 1994, \"It is not conspiracy theory, not paranoid myth, not Rambo fantasy. It is only hard evidence of a national disgrace: American prisoners were left behind at the end of the Vietnam War. They were abandoned because six presidents and official Washington could not admit their guilty secret. They were forgotten because the press and most Americans turned away from all things that reminded them of Vietnam.\"\n\nThe actions of the committee were designed to allow for improved ties between the U.S. and Vietnam, for which the unresolved fate of American MIAs had long been a sticking point. The belief by Americans from a few years earlier that live prisoners still existed had mostly passed; in the words of \"Time\" magazine, \"most people seemed resigned to the idea that the fortunes of war are bound to leave a few mysteries.\" In 1994 the Senate passed a resolution, sponsored by Kerry and McCain, that called for an end to the existing trade embargo against Vietnam; it was intended to pave the way for normalization.\n\nWhen President Bill Clinton lifted the trade embargo on February 3, 1994, he stated:\nIn response, columnist Dan Rather wrote the following:\nIn 1995, President Bill Clinton normalized diplomatic relations with the country of Vietnam, with McCain's and Kerry's visible support during the announcement giving Clinton, who came of age during Vietnam but did not serve in the military, some political cover.\n\nDuring his time on the committee and afterward, McCain was vilified as a fraud, traitor, or \"Manchurian Candidate\" by many of the POW/MIA activists who believed in live prisoners. McCain's high-profile on the Vietnam issue also cost him the friendship of some fellow former POWs; In return, McCain continued to attack those he saw as profiteers exploiting the families of those missing in action.\n\nIn the 1990s, the Joint Task Force–Full Accounting in conjunction with the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command was established to focus on achieving the fullest possible accounting of Americans missing from the Vietnam War. It has interviewed thousands of witnesses regarding the fate of missing Americans, and conducts ten missions per year in Southeast Asia to search for remains of those still listed as missing.\n\nIn a 2002 interview, the Cambodia politician Pen Sovan reported hearing about American POWs from his guards, during his imprisonment in Vietnam, and believed that some had been taken by the Soviet Union. He said he had spoken to American MIA officials about this.\n\nSchanberg returned to the POW/MIA subject during John Kerry's 2004 presidential campaign in a series of articles for \"The Village Voice\"; he claimed that Kerry had shredded documents, suppressed testimony, and sanitized findings during his time as chairman of the committee. Kerry denied these allegations and responded overall by saying, \"In the end, I think what we can take pride in is that we put together the most significant, most thorough, most exhaustive accounting for missing and former POWs in the history of human warfare.\"\n\nIn 2007, the former Congressman Bill Hendon published his book \"An Enormous Crime\", which chronicled his view of the history of American soldiers abandoned in Southeast Asia following the war and the circumstances that left them there. A companion website allows readers to examine actual intelligence reports and decide if the Defense Intelligence Agency acted properly in dismissing each case. The book ranked to #34 on the New York Times Best Seller list.\n\nA year later, Schanberg again published articles, this time for \"The Nation\" and The Nation Institute, during John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign, in which he recapped his previous arguments and additionally claimed that McCain had helped cover up the long suppression of evidence concerning live prisoners. Former Congressman LeBoutillier was also vocal in his opposition to McCain, in part due to McCain's failure to acknowledge what he saw as evidence of live American POWs left behind. However, while the group of activists on the topic still felt very strongly about it, the matter had largely faded from the American public, and McCain's actions with regard to the POW/MIA issue never were a factor in his eventually losing campaign.\n\nBy the late 2000s, the remains of over 700 Americans killed in Southeast Asia had been returned and identified.\n\nThe controversy continued to pop up on occasion in the second decade of the twenty-first century. The 2013 Canadian documentary \"Unclaimed\" told the story of an elderly man in Vietnam claiming to be a U.S. soldier thought killed in action in 1968. However, Defense Department officials said the man was an imposter with a history of impersonating American POWs. The case of Baron 52, the call sign of a U.S. Air Force EC-47 carrying eight crew members that was shot down over Laos in 1973, was reopened for examination by the Air Force and the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency in 2016, after decades of pressure from family members who believe that four of the crewmen might have escaped the crash.\n\nEfforts continued to recover Americans who remained unaccounted for, who numbered 1,621 as of March 23, 2016. Working jointly, American and Vietnamese experts focus on \"Last Known Alive\" cases, which involve missing Americans whom the U.S. believed might have survived their initial loss incident. Outcomes of these investigations helps resolve the live prisoners question.\n\nThe U.S. has identified 296 individuals as Last Known Alive cases in all of Southeast Asia, and following full investigations, the Defense Department confirmed the wartime death of 245 of these individuals by March 2012.\n\nAs of June 20, 2018 according to the U.S. Department of Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office, US Military and Civilian personnel still unaccounted for number 1,597\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5390576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5390576", "title": "Young fogey", "text": "Young fogey\n\n\"Young fogey\" is a term humorously applied, in British context, to some younger-generation, rather buttoned-down writers and journalists, such as Simon Heffer, Charles Moore and, for a while, A. N. Wilson. The term is attributed to Alan Watkins writing in 1984 in \"The Spectator\".\n\n\"Young fogey\" is still used to describe conservative young men (aged approximately between 15 and 40) who dress in a vintage style (usually that of the 1920s-1930s, also known as the \"Brideshead\" look (after the influence of the Evelyn Waugh novel \"Brideshead Revisited\"). Young-fogeys tend towards erudite, conservative cultural pursuits, especically art and traditional architecture, rather than sports. The young-fogey style of dress also has some surface similarity with the American preppy style, but is endogenous to the United Kingdom and anglo-centric areas of the British Commonwealth such as Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe movement reached its peak in the 1980s with champions such as A.N. Wilson, Gavin Stamp and John Martin Robinson and a relatively widespread following, but has declined since. Though generally a middle class phenomenon, it had a wider influence on fashions in the 1980s. Young-fogeys are rarely rich or upper class and sometimes make a style virtue of genteel poverty, especially when rescuing old houses. They often combine a conservative cultural outlook with a distate of Conservative political activity. They find feminism perpexing but are often open to bisexuality with men; even firmly heterosexual youg-fogeys have homosocial tendencies. Often religious, their conservative outlook extends to refuting progressive theology.\n\nToday committed young-fogeys may found amongst students at Oxford, Cambridge, Durham, Edinburgh and St Andrews universities; and at some universities in the Commonwealth, notably the University of Melbourne and Sydney. Adherents tend to concentrate in some professions: in particular the antiques and art dealing, residential estate agency, conservative classical architecture practices and certain strata of the Roman Catholic and Anglican churches. Strongholds of young fogeys include the Oxford University Conservative Association and Trinity College, Cambridge, but they are also seen elsewhere.\n\nIrish broadcaster Ryan Tubridy, who hosts \"The Late Late Show\", has described himself as a \"young fogey\".\n\nBritish Member of Parliament Jacob Rees-Mogg was described as a \"young fogey\" after his 2010 election to Westminster.\n\nBritish writer, editor, and broadcaster Anthony Lejeune was described by \"The Times\" as: \"always out of period, a misfit in the modern world for whom the term 'young fogey' might have been invented\".\n\n\n\n"}
