{"id": "5535379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5535379", "title": "Account stated", "text": "Account stated\n\nUnder United States law, account stated is a statement between a creditor (the person to whom money is owed) and a debtor (the person who owes) based upon a series of prior transactions that a particular amount is owed to the creditor as of a certain date. Often the account stated is a bill, invoice or a summary of invoices, signed by the customer or sent to the customer who pays part or all of it without protest.\n\nAn account stated may also be established when the debtor retains the statement of account (for example the bill or invoice) without objecting, for a reasonable length of time. \"Reasonable\" is determined by looking at the surrounding circumstances. An account stated is in the nature of a kind of settlement between the parties, such as when a person receives a bank statement, is capable and even obligated to check the math within a specified period of time, otherwise the account as between the parties is thus \"stated.\" The key element is either the express agreement or an agreement implied by law under all the facts and circumstances.\n\nArthur Corbin's influential treatise on Contracts explains the purpose and historic context of \"account stated\" as follows: \nThe elements of account stated are: (1) prior transactions between the parties which establish a debtor-creditor relationship; (2)an express or implied agreement between the parties as to the amount due; and (3) an express or implied promise from the debtor to pay the amount due. When a creditor sues for account stated, this sets both the debtor's liability and the exact amount the debtor must pay, which on its surface is less complicated than claiming a debt is due and payable. An account stated may carry a longer statute of limitations (time to file suit) than some other forms of debt, depending on the state.\n\nIn other states, such as Washington state, \"account stated\" is generally asserted as a defense in a contract action. Courts in those states characterize \"account stated\" as being merely a defense or a \"doctrine\" that prevents parties from raising issues that have already been dealt with, compromised and/or settled by the parties.\n\n“An account stated has been defined as an agreement between parties who have had previous transactions that the account representing those transactions is true and that the balance stated is correct, together with a promise, express or implied, for the payment of such balance.\" \"An account stated is merely a form of proving damages for the breach of a promise to pay on a contract.\"\n\nNevertheless, even where account stated is recognized as a cause of action in and of itself, defenses such as fraud or mistake may still be asserted to the \"account stated,\" as with any settlement of parties to complex transactions. In situations where no account has been proven as stated, or where the existence of an agreement between the parties on a particular amount as being correct is effectively denied, all of the defenses or counterclaims that may exist with respect to the underlying transaction are preserved, and therefore may still be litigated.\n\nBoth the basic agreement and rendition of account must be proved. “[T]he rule that an account rendered and not objected to within a reasonable time is to be regarded as correct assumes that there was an original indebtedness, but there can be no liability on an account stated if no liability in fact exists, and the mere presentation of a claim, although not objected to, cannot of itself create liability. . . . In other words, an account stated cannot create original liability where none exists; it is merely a final determination of the amount of an existing debt.”\n\nSignificant litigation occurs on \"account stated\" issues where professional legal or medical services are involved, and the recipient of the services happens not to object in writing to bills allegedly sent and received. Professional services are required to be \"reasonable and necessary\" in amount by both law and ethical rules, yet these professional creditors often assert that non-objection constitutes agreement to whatever figure was billed. Especially where legal or medical relations are or may be ongoing, arguing that silence constitutes agreement to what might otherwise be an overcharge can be hotly contested by parties. At least in the case of attorney fees, voluminous litigation exists regarding what's reasonable and necessary given the professional services rendered in a particular context, and accounts are rarely \"stated\" in professional services cases absent facts such as where there has been payment by the alleged debtor without objection, or a final and unappealed court order for the payment of those professional fees.\n"}
{"id": "44028007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44028007", "title": "Allied Finance and Investments v Haddow &amp; Co", "text": "Allied Finance and Investments v Haddow &amp; Co\n\nAllied Finance and Investments v Haddow & Co [1983] NZLR 22 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding negligence by a solicitor.\n\nAllied Finance, a finance company was lending Roger Hill $25,000 to personally purchase a yacht called \"Sagittarius\", with the yacht being used as security for the loan.\n\nIn order to process the loan, Hill's solicitors, Haddow & Co certified to Allied Finance \"that the instrument by way of security is fully binding on Roger Kenneth Hill\" as well as \"on behalf of our client, that there are no other charges whatsoever of the yacht \"Sagittarius\"\".\n\nHaddow issued this certificate despite the fact that Roger was not purchasing the yacht himself, but by his company Equity Dealers Ltd instead, which resulted in Allied having arguably a legally unenforceable security over the yacht.\n\nUltimately, Hill used the $25,000 for other purposes than pay for the yacht, resulting in the seller, Mr Johnson repossessing the yacht and selling it for $25,000.\n\nAllied claimed from Johnson that they were legally owed the sale proceeds, and they settled on a payment of $16,000, leaving a shortfall remaining of $7095.\n\nWith Hill now bankrupt, Allied sued his solicitors for the shortfall.\n\nHaddow argued that they only owed a duty of care to their client, and not to any other parties.\n\nThe court of Appeal ruled that Haddow owed a duty of care to Allied, and thus were liable to reimburse them for their loss.\n"}
{"id": "1291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1291", "title": "Antarctic Treaty System", "text": "Antarctic Treaty System\n\nThe Antarctic Treaty and related agreements, collectively known as the Antarctic Treaty System (ATS), regulate international relations with respect to Antarctica, Earth's only continent without a native human population. For the purposes of the treaty system, Antarctica is defined as all of the land and ice shelves south of 60°S latitude. The treaty entered into force in 1961 and currently has 53 parties. The treaty sets aside Antarctica as a scientific preserve, establishes freedom of scientific investigation, and bans military activity on the continent. The treaty was the first arms control agreement established during the Cold War. Since September 2004, the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat headquarters has been located in Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nThe main treaty was opened for signature on December 1, 1959, and officially entered into force on June 23, 1961. The original signatories were the 12 countries active in Antarctica during the International Geophysical Year (IGY) of 1957–58. The twelve countries that had significant interests in Antarctica at the time were: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Chile, France, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States. These countries had established over 55 Antarctic stations for the IGY. The treaty was a diplomatic expression of the operational and scientific co-operation that had been achieved \"on the ice\".\n\n\nThe main objective of the ATS is to ensure in the interests of all humankind that Antarctica shall continue forever to be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and shall not become the scene or object of international discord. Pursuant to Article 1, the treaty forbids any measures of a military nature, but not the presence of military personnel or equipment for the purposes of scientific research.\n\nOther agreements — some 200 recommendations adopted at treaty consultative meetings and ratified by governments — include:\n\n\nThe Antarctic Treaty System's yearly \"Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meetings (ATCM)\" are the international forum for the administration and management of the region. Only 29 of the 53 parties to the agreements have the right to participate in decision-making at these meetings, though the other 24 are still allowed to attend. The decision-making participants are the \"Consultative Parties\" and, in addition to the 12 original signatories, include 17 countries that have demonstrated their interest in Antarctica by carrying out substantial scientific activity there.\n\nAs of 2015, there are 53 states party to the treaty, 29 of which, including all 12 original signatories to the treaty, have consultative (voting) status. Consultative members include the seven nations that claim portions of Antarctica as national territory. The 46 non-claimant nations either do not recognize the claims of others, or have not stated their positions.\nNote: The table can be sorted alphabetically or chronologically using the icon.\n\nThe \"Antarctic Treaty Secretariat\" was established in Buenos Aires, Argentina in September 2004 by the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting (ATCM). Jan Huber (Netherlands) served as the first Executive Secretary for five years until August 31, 2009. He was succeeded on September 1, 2009, by Manfred Reinke (Germany).\n\nThe tasks of the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat can be divided into the following areas:\n\nAntarctica currently has no permanent population and therefore it has no citizenship nor government. All personnel present on Antarctica at any time are citizens or nationals of some sovereignty outside Antarctica, as there is no Antarctic sovereignty. The majority of Antarctica is claimed by one or more countries, but most countries do not explicitly recognize those claims. The area on the mainland between 90 degrees west and 150 degrees west is the only major land on Earth not claimed by any country. Until 2015 the interior of the Norwegian Sector, the extent of which had never been officially defined, was considered to be unclaimed. That year, Norway formally laid claim to the area between its Queen Maud Land and the South Pole.\n\nGovernments that are party to the Antarctic Treaty and its Protocol on Environmental Protection implement the articles of these agreements, and decisions taken under them, through national laws. These laws generally apply only to their own citizens, wherever they are in Antarctica, and serve to enforce the consensus decisions of the consultative parties: about which activities are acceptable, which areas require permits to enter, what processes of environmental impact assessment must precede activities, and so on. The Antarctic Treaty is often considered to represent an example of the common heritage of mankind principle.\n\nSince the designation of the Australian Antarctic Territory pre-dated the signing of the Antarctic Treaty, Australian laws that relate to Antarctica date from more than two decades before the Antarctic Treaty era. In terms of criminal law, the laws that apply to the Jervis Bay Territory (which follows the laws of the Australian Capital Territory) apply to the Australian Antarctic Territory. Key Australian legislation applying Antarctic Treaty System decisions include the \"Antarctic Treaty Act 1960\", the \"Antarctic Treaty (Environment Protection) Act 1980\" and the \"Antarctic Marine Living Resources Conservation Act 1981\".\n\nThe law of the United States, including certain criminal offences by or against U.S. nationals, such as murder, may apply to areas not under jurisdiction of other countries. To this end, the United States now stations special deputy U.S. Marshals in Antarctica to provide a law enforcement presence.\n\nSome U.S. laws directly apply to Antarctica. For example, the Antarctic Conservation Act, Public Law 95-541, \"et seq.\", provides civil and criminal penalties for the following activities, unless authorized by regulation or statute:\n\nViolation of the Antarctic Conservation Act carries penalties of up to US$10,000 in fines and one year in prison. The Departments of the Treasury, Commerce, Transportation, and the Interior share enforcement responsibilities. The Act requires expeditions from the U.S. to Antarctica to notify, in advance, the Office of Oceans and Polar Affairs of the State Department, which reports such plans to other nations as required by the Antarctic Treaty. Further information is provided by the Office of Polar Programs of the National Science Foundation.\n\nIn 2006, the New Zealand police reported that jurisdictional issues prevented them issuing warrants for potential American witnesses who were reluctant to testify during the Christchurch Coroner's investigation into the death by poisoning of Australian astrophysicist Rodney Marks at the South Pole base in May 2000. Dr. Marks died while wintering over at the United States' Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station located at the geographic South Pole. Prior to autopsy, the death was attributed to natural causes by the National Science Foundation and the contractor administering the base. However, an autopsy in New Zealand revealed that Dr. Marks died from methanol poisoning. The New Zealand Police launched an investigation. In 2006, frustrated by lack of progress, the Christchurch Coroner said that it was unlikely that Dr. Marks ingested the methanol knowingly, although there is no certainty that he died as the direct result of the act of another person. During media interviews, the police detective in charge of the investigation criticized the National Science Foundation and contractor Raytheon for failing to co-operate with the investigation.\n\nSouth African law applies to all South African citizens in Antarctica, and they are subject to the jurisdiction of the magistrate's court in Cape Town. In regard to violations of the Antarctic Treaty and related agreements, South Africa also asserts jurisdiction over South African residents and members of expeditions organised in South Africa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4150569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4150569", "title": "Arusha Agreement", "text": "Arusha Agreement\n\n\"See Arusha (disambiguation).\"\n\nThe Arusha Agreement was a treaty signed on 24 September 1969 in Arusha, Tanzania, between the European Community and the three East African states of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. The agreement entered into force on 1 January 1971, concomitant with the second Yaoundé Convention, with the aim of establishing better economic relations between the EC and the African states. At the end of their validity time, the Lomé Convention was signed which substituted the previous agreements and enlarged them to 46 ACP countries.\n\nIn 1967, three East African countries (Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda) that were not members of the Associated African and Malagasy States (AAMS), but were instead member states of the Commonwealth of Nations combined to establish the East African Community (EAC). On 26 July 1968 the EEC signed an initial Association Agreement with the EAC. That Agreement did not enter into force because it was not ratified by all the countries involved. On 24 September 1969 in Arusha, a second Agreement was signed between the EEC and the EAC. That Agreement was signed at the same time as the Convention of Association between the EEC and the AAMS (Yaoundé II); both the Arusha Agreement and the Yaoundé II Convention entered into force on 1 January 1971 for a period of five years.\n\nThe Arusha Agreement established a trade association (partial free-trade areas and joint institutions) but, unlike the Yaoundé II Convention, without financial and technical cooperation. Accordingly, the Agreement covered trade (Title I), the right of establishment and the provision of services (Title II), payments and capital (Title III), institutional provisions (Title IV), and general and final provisions (Title V).\n\n"}
{"id": "58536320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58536320", "title": "Backnang – Schwäbisch Gmünd", "text": "Backnang – Schwäbisch Gmünd\n\nBacknang – Schwäbisch Gmünd is one of the 299 single member constituencies used for the German parliament, the Bundestag. \n"}
{"id": "23565482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23565482", "title": "Bijela Tabija", "text": "Bijela Tabija\n\nThe White Fortress (Bosnian-Croatian-Serbian: / ) is an old fort overlooking the historic core of Sarajevo. It is a national monument of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bijela Tabija is above sea level.\nBijela Tabija is a protruding part of the wall of what was historically known as the old Vratnik City, and dominates the Eastern, the natural entrance to Sarajevo. It is built of stone and it used to house a gun-crew and an ammunition storage. Its thick walls have openings for cannons.\n\nAs far as the precise year of construction goes, differing opinions have been put forward. One of them proposes that Bijela Tabija was built around 1550 (this opinion is founded on the information given by the travel writer Katarino Zeno) and was destroyed during the time of Vratnik City's construction when a new fort was erected in its place.\n\nAccording to another opinion, a fortress existed in the place of Bijela Tabija during the Middle Ages and it was not bigger than the usual medieval defence fortresses that protected open settlements in their vicinity. Since it is confirmed that there was a medieval settlement (trg) Tornik on the site of today's Sarajevo, it is safe to presume that this settlement must have had a fort which protected it.\n\nBijela Tabija's location which overlooks the entire Sarajevo valley is ideal for situating a mediaeval fortress. It was a fortress with a rectangular base, accompanied with four square-based towers at each of its corners and a fifth above the entrance gate. This shape classifies it as a building from the late 14th or early 15th century, which is exactly the time when the medieval settlement on the site of today's Sarajevo is first mentioned in written documents.\n\nPrior to the Bosnian War of the 1990s, devastation inside the Bijela Tabija complex were the result of poor maintenance which caused the decaying and destruction. Furthermore, the site was endangered by stealing of its construction material (stone) and illegal housing in the contact zone caused the additional demolition of ramparts and surrounding area. During the several years of war Bijela Tabija was exposed to direct shelling of heavy weaponry.\n\nPlans for a project of structural repairs, preservation, restoration and revitalization of Bijela Tabija to active use of this area are under way. Their goal is to establish Tabija as the permanent destination of Sarajevo's art scene and to include it as a tourist attraction which includes exhibition halls, shops, inns and various tourist businesses.\n\nBijela Tabija has been placed under legal protection as an object of cultural and historical heritage and listed under the Protected Monuments Register by Act of Municipal Court in Sarajevo on 9 September 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "160793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160793", "title": "Civil service", "text": "Civil service\n\nThe civil service is independent of government and composed mainly of career bureaucrats hired on professional merit rather than appointed or elected, whose institutional tenure typically survives transitions of political leadership. A civil servant or public servant is a person employed in the public sector on behalf of a government department or agency. The extent of civil servants of a state as part of the \"civil service\" varies from country to country. In the United Kingdom, for instance, only Crown (national government) employees are referred to as civil servants whereas county or city employees are not.\n\nMany consider the study of service to be a part of the field of public administration. Workers in \"non-departmental public bodies\" (sometimes called \"Quangos\") may also be classed as civil servants for the purpose of statistics and possibly for their terms and conditions. Collectively a state's civil servants form its civil service or public service.\n\nAn international civil servant or international staff member is a civilian employee who is employed by an intergovernmental organization. These international civil servants do not resort under any national legislation (from which they have immunity of jurisdiction) but are governed by internal staff regulations. All disputes related to international civil service are brought before special tribunals created by these international organizations such as, for instance, the Administrative Tribunal of the ILO.\n\nSpecific referral can be made to the International Civil Service Commission (ICSC) of the United Nations, an independent expert body established by the United Nations General Assembly. Its mandate is to regulate and coordinate the conditions of service of staff in the United Nations common system, while promoting and maintaining high standards in the international civil service.\n\nThe origin of the modern meritocratic civil service can be traced back to Imperial examination founded in Imperial China. The Imperial exam based on merit was designed to select the best administrative officials for the state's bureaucracy. This system had a huge influence on both society and culture in Imperial China and was directly responsible for the creation of a class of scholar-bureaucrats irrespective of their family pedigree.\n\nOriginally appointments to the bureaucracy were based on the patronage of aristocrats; During Han dynasty, Emperor Wu of Han established the xiaolian system of recommendation by superiors for appointments to office. In the areas of administration, especially the military, appointments were based solely on merit. This was an early form of the imperial examinations, transitioning from inheritance and patronage to merit, in which local officials would select candidates to take part in an examination of the Confucian classics. After the fall of the Han dynasty, the Chinese bureaucracy regressed into a semi-merit system known as the nine-rank system.\n\nThis system was reversed during the short-lived Sui dynasty (581–618), which initiated a civil service bureaucracy recruited through written examinations and recommendation. The first civil service examination system was established by Emperor Wen of Sui. Emperor Yang of Sui established a new category of recommended candidates for the mandarinate in AD 605. The following Tang dynasty (618–907) adopted the same measures for drafting officials, and decreasingly relied on aristocratic recommendations and more and more on promotion based on the results of written examinations.The structure of the examination system was extensively expanded during the reign of Wu Zetian\nThe system reached its apogee during the Song dynasty.\n\nIn theory, the Chinese civil service system provided one of the major outlets for social mobility in Chinese society, although in practice, due to the time-consuming nature of the study, the examination was generally only taken by sons of the landed gentry. The examination tested the candidate's memorization of the Nine Classics of Confucianism and his ability to compose poetry using fixed and traditional forms and calligraphy. In the late 19th century the system came under increasing internal dissatisfaction, and it was criticized as not reflecting the candidate's ability to govern well, and for giving precedence to style over content and originality of thought. The system was finally abolished by the Qing government in 1905 as part of the New Policies reform package.\n\nThe Chinese system was often admired by European commentators from the 16th century onward.\n\nIn the 18th century, in response to economic changes and the growth of the British Empire, the bureaucracy of institutions such as the Office of Works and the Navy Board greatly expanded. Each had its own system, but in general, staff were appointed through patronage or outright purchase. By the 19th century, it became increasingly clear that these arrangements were falling short. \"The origins of the British civil service are better known. During the eighteenth century a number of Englishmen wrote in praise of the Chinese examination system, some of them going so far as to urge the adoption for England of something similar. The first concrete step in this direction was taken by the British East India Company in 1806.\" In that year, the Honourable East India Company established a college, the East India Company College, near London to train and examine administrators of the Company's territories in India. \"The proposal for establishing this college came, significantly, from members of the East India Company's trading post in Canton, China.\" Examinations for the Indian \"civil service\"—a term coined by the Company—were introduced in 1829.\n\nBritish efforts at reform were influenced by the imperial examinations system and meritocratic system of China. Thomas Taylor Meadows, Britain's consul in Guangzhou, China argued in his \"Desultory Notes on the Government and People of China\", published in 1847, that \"the long duration of the Chinese empire is solely and altogether owing to the good government which consists in the advancement of men of talent and merit only,\" and that the British must reform their civil service by making the institution meritocratic.\nIn 1853 the Chancellor of the Exchequer William Gladstone, commissioned Sir Stafford Northcote and Charles Trevelyan to look into the operation and organisation of the Civil Service. Influenced by the Chinese imperial examinations, the Northcote–Trevelyan Report of 1854 made four principal recommendations: that recruitment should be on the basis of merit determined through competitive examination, that candidates should have a solid general education to enable inter-departmental transfers, that recruits should be graded into a hierarchy and that promotion should be through achievement, rather than \"preferment, patronage or purchase\". It also recommended a clear division between staff responsible for routine (\"mechanical\") work, and those engaged in policy formulation and implementation in an \"administrative\" class.\n\nThe report was well-timed, because bureaucratic chaos during the Crimean War was causing a clamour for the change. The report's conclusions were immediately implemented, and a permanent, unified and politically neutral civil service was introduced as Her Majesty's Civil Service. A Civil Service Commission was also set up in 1855 to oversee open recruitment and end patronage, and most of the other Northcote–Trevelyan recommendations were implemented over some years.\n\nThe same model, the Imperial Civil Service, was implemented in British India from 1858, after the demise of the East India Company's rule in India through the Indian Rebellion of 1857 which came close to toppling British rule in the country.\n\nThe Northcote–Trevelyan model remained essentially stable for a hundred years. This was a tribute to its success in removing corruption, delivering public services (even under the stress of two world wars), and responding effectively to political change. It also had a great international influence and was adapted by members of the Commonwealth. The Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act established a modern civil service in the United States, and by the turn of the 20th century almost all Western governments had implemented similar reforms.\n\nCivil servants in Brazil () are those working in the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the federal, state, or municipal government and the government of Brasília, including congressmen, senators, mayors, ministers, the president of the republic, and workers in government-owned corporations.\n\nCareer civil servants (not temporary workers or politicians) are hired only externally on the basis of entrance examinations (). It usually consists of a written test; some posts may require physical tests (such as policemen), or oral tests (such as professors, judges, prosecutors and attorneys). The rank according to the examination score is used for filling the vacancies.\n\nEntrance examinations are conducted by several institutions with a government mandate, such as CESPE (which belongs to the University of Brasília) and the Cesgranrio Foundation (which is part of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro).\n\nThe labor laws and social insurance for civil servants are different from private workers; even between government branches (like different states or cities), the law and insurance differ.\n\nThe posts usually are ranked by titles, the most common are \"technician\" for high school literates and \"analyst\" for undergraduates. There's also higher post ranks like auditor, fiscal, chief of police, prosecutor, judge, attorney, etc.\n\nThe law does not allow servants to upgrade or downgrade posts internally; they need to be selected in separate external entrance examinations.\n\nHistorians have explored the powerful role of civil service since the 1840s.\n\nIn Canada, the civil service at the federal level is known as the Public Service of Canada, with each of the ten provincial governments as well as the three territorial governments also having their own separate civil services. The federal civil service consists of all employees of the crown except for ministers' exempt staff, members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and members of the Canadian Armed Forces as they are not civil servants. There are approximately 257,000 federal civil servants (2015), and more than 350,000 employees at the provincial and territorial levels.\n\nOne of the oldest examples of a civil service based on meritocracy is the Imperial bureaucracy of China, which can be traced as far back as the Qin dynasty (221–207 BC).\nHowever, the civil service examinations were practiced on a much smaller scale in comparison to the stronger, centralized bureaucracy of the Song dynasty (960–1279). In response to the regional military rule of jiedushi and the loss of civil authority during the late Tang period and Five Dynasties (907–960), the Song emperors were eager to implement a system where civil officials would owe their social prestige to the central court and gain their salaries strictly from the central government. This ideal was not fully achieved since many scholar officials were affluent landowners and were engaged in many anonymous business affairs in an age of economic revolution in China. Nonetheless, gaining a degree through three levels of examination—prefectural exams, provincial exams, and the prestigious palace exams—was a far more desirable goal in society than becoming a merchant. This was because the mercantile class was traditionally regarded with some disdain by the scholar-official class.\n\nThis class of state bureaucrats in the Song period were far less aristocratic than their Tang predecessors. The examinations were carefully structured in order to ensure that people of lesser means than what was available to candidates born into wealthy, landowning families were given a greater chance to pass the exams and obtain an official degree. This included the employment of a bureau of copyists who would rewrite all of the candidates' exams in order to mask their handwriting and thus prevent favoritism by graders of the exams who might otherwise recognize a candidate's handwriting. The advent of widespread printing in the Song period allowed many more examination candidates access to the Confucian texts whose mastery was required for passing the exams.\n\nHong Kong and Macau have separate civil service systems:\n\nThe civil service in France (\"fonction publique\") is often incorrectly considered to include all government employees including employees of public corporations, such as SNCF.\n\nPublic sector employment is classified into three services; State service, Local service and Hospital service. According to government statistics there were 5.5 million public sector employees in 2011.\n\nThe Public Service in Germany (\"\") employed 4.6 million persons . Public servants are organized into hired salaried employees (\"Beschäftigte\") and appointed civil servants (\"Beamte\"). They are employed by public bodies (\"Körperschaften des öffentlichen Rechts\"), such as counties (\"Kreise\"), states, the federal government, etc. In addition to employees directly employed by the state another 1.6 million persons are employed by state owned enterprises\n\n\"Beamte\" has been a title for government employees for several centuries in German states, but became a standardized group in 1794. Soldiers other than conscripted soldiers are not Beamte but have similar rights. Judges are not Beamte but have similar rights too. Public attorneys are all Beamte, while most (but not all) professors are Beamte. The group of Beamte have the most secure employment, and the amount they are paid is set by national pay regulations (\"Besoldungsordnungen\"). Beamte are prohibited from striking.\n\n\"Beschäftigte\" work with individual contracts, while \"Beamte\" are appointed, employed, and removed by the Public Sector Service and Loyalty law (\"öffentlich-rechtliches Dienst- und Treueverhältnis\"). Most tasks can be either done by \"Beschäftigte\" or \"Beamte\", however some specific tasks of official nature are supposed to be handled by \"Beamte\" since they are subject to a special loyalty obligation.\n\n\"Beamte\" are divided into four levels:\n\n\"Gehobener Dienst\" and \"Höherer Dienst\" both require a university education or equivalent, at the very least a bachelor's or master's degree, respectively.\n\nControversies about the institution of the Civil Service in Greece are widespread. Typically, they concern the allegedly large numbers of public employees, the lack of adequate meritocracy in their employment, the strong ties that significant portions of public employees maintain with political parties and the clientelism that this relationship incubates, internal inequalities of wages among public employees, and inequalities of the high income of public employees relevant to that of private sector workers. The Civil Service payscale is also controversial given the conditions before the financial crisis that made being a civil servant a dream-job.\n\nIn India, the Civil Service is defined as \"appointive positions by the Government in connection with the affairs of the Union and includes a civilian in a Defence Service, except positions in the Indian Armed Forces.\" The members of civil service serve at the pleasure of the President of India and Article 311 of the constitution protects them from politically motivated or vindictive action.\n\nThe Civil Services of India can be classified into three types—the All India Services, the Central Civil Services (Group A and B) and State/Provincial Civil Services. The recruits are university graduates (or above) selected through a rigorous system of examinations, called the Civil Services Examination (CSE) and its technical counterpart known as the Engineering Services Examination (ESE) both conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The entry into the State Civil Services is through a competitive examination conducted by every state public service commission.\n\nSenior positions in civil service are listed and named in the Order of Precedence of India.\n\nThe civil service of Ireland includes the employees of the Department of State (excluded are government ministers and a small number of paid political advisors) as well as a small number of core state agencies such as the Office of the Revenue Commissioners, the Office of Public Works, and the Public Appointments Service. The organisation of the Irish Civil Service is very similar to the traditional organization of the British Home Civil Service, and indeed the grading system in the Irish Civil Service is nearly identical to the traditional grading system of its British counterpart. In Ireland, public sector employees such as teachers or members of the country's police force, \"An Garda Síochána\" are not considered to be civil servants, but are rather described as \"public servants\" (and form the public service of the Republic of Ireland).\n\nIn Pakistan the FPSC (Federal Public Service Commission) conducts a competitive examination for the Central Superior Services of Pakistan and other civil-service posts; Pakistan inherited this system from the British Raj-era Indian Civil Service.\n\nPakistan has federal civil servants serving in federal government offices, with staff selected through the Federal Public Service Commission. Similarly, Pakistani provinces select their own public servants through provincial Public Service Commissions. The federal services have some quota against provincial posts, while provincial services have some quota in federal services.\n\nThe civil service in Spain (\"función pública\") is usually considered to include all the employees at the different levels of the Spanish public administration: central government, autonomous communities, as well as municipalities. There are three main categories of Spanish public positions: temporary political posts (\"personal funcionario eventual\"), which require a simple procedure for hiring and dismissal and is associated to top level executives and advisors, statutory permanent posts (\"funcionarios de carrera\"), which require a formal procedure for access that usually involves a competition among candidates and whose tenants are subject to a special statutory relationship of work with their employers, and non statutory permanent posts (\"personal laboral\"), which also require a formal procedure for entry similar to the procedure required for the \"funcionarios de carrera\", but whose tenants are subject to normal working conditions and laws. Competitions differ notably among the state, the 17 autonomous communities and the city councils, and the \"funcionarios de carrera\" and \"personal laboral\" examinations vary in difficulty from one location to another.\n\nAs of 2013, there were 2.6 million public employees in Spain, of which 571,000 were civil servants and 2 million were non-civil servants.\nIn December 2011, the government of Rajoy announced that civil servants have to serve a minimum 37.5 working hours per week regardless of their place or kind of service.\n\nThe ROC constitution specifies that public servant cannot be employed without examination. The employment is usually lifelong (that is, until age about retirement).\n\nThe civil service in the United Kingdom only includes Crown (i.e. central government) employees, not parliamentary employees or local government employees. Public sector employees such as those in education and the NHS are not considered to be civil servants. Police officers and staff are also not civil servants. Total employment in the public sector in the UK was 6.04 million in 2012 according to the UK's Office for National Statistics.\n\nCivil servants in the devolved government in Northern Ireland are not part of the Home Civil Service, but constitute the separate Northern Ireland Civil Service. Some employees of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office are members of HM Diplomatic Service, which is associated with but separate from the Civil Service.\n\nIn the United States, the federal civil service was established in 1871. The Federal Civil Service is defined as \"all appointive positions in the executive, judicial, and legislative branches of the Government of the United States, except positions in the uniformed services.\" (). In the early 19th century, government jobs were held at the pleasure of the president — a person could be fired at any time. The spoils system meant that jobs were used to support the political parties. This was changed in slow stages by the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act of 1883 and subsequent laws. By 1909, almost two thirds of the U.S. federal work force was appointed based on merit, that is, qualifications measured by tests. Certain senior civil service positions, including some heads of diplomatic missions and executive agencies are filled by political appointees. Under the Hatch Act of 1939, civil servants are not allowed to engage in political activities while performing their duties.\n\nThe U.S. civil service includes the competitive service and the excepted service. The majority of civil service appointments in the U.S. are made under the competitive service, but the Foreign Service, the FBI, and other National Security positions are made under the excepted service. (U.S. Code Title V)\n\nU.S. state and local government entities often have competitive civil service systems that are modeled on the national system, in varying degrees.\n\nAs of January 2007, the federal government, excluding the Postal Service, employed about 1.8 million civilian workers. The federal government is the nation's single largest employer, although it employs only about 12% of all government employees, compared to 24% at the state level and 63% at the local level. Although most federal agencies are based in the Washington, D.C. region, only about 16% (or about 284,000) of the federal government workforce is employed in this region.\n\nAs of 2014, there are currently 15 federal executive branch agencies and hundreds of subagencies.\n\nThe European Civil Service administers the institutions of the European Union, of which the largest employer is the European Commission.\n\nCivil servants are recruited directly into the institutions after being selected by competitions set by EPSO, the official selection office. They are allocated to departments, known as Directorates-General (DGs), each covering one or more related policy areas.\n\nAutocratic systems of government (such as monarchies) can favour appointments to administrative positions on the basis of nepotism, patronage and favoritism, with close relationships between political and administrative figures. Early Roman emperors, for example, set their household slaves and freedmen much of the task of administering the Empire,\nsidelining the elected officials who continued the traditions of the Roman Republic. But the political appointment of bureaucrats can run the risk of tolerating inefficiency and corruption, with officials feeling secure in the protection of their political masters and possibly immune from prosecution for bribe-taking. Song-dynasty China (960–1279) standardised competitive examinations as a basis for civil-service recruitment and promotion, and in the 19th century administrations in France and Britain followed suit. Agitation against the spoils system in the United States of America resulted in increasing the independence of the civil service – seen as an important principle in modern times.\nIn Germany, the Gesetz zur Wiederherstellung des Berufsbeamtentums of April 1933 re-affirmed the principle of an independent civil service by insisting on training (along with political and racial credentials).\n\nSome governmental structures include a\ncivil service commission (or equivalent) whose functions include maintaining the work and rights of civil servants at arm's length from potential politicisation or political interference.\nCompare the governance-administrative integration of Stalin's Orgburo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15165589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15165589", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979 was the fifth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. 39 countries attended the meeting. It was held in Lusaka, Zambia, between 1 August 1979 and 7 August 1979, and was hosted by that country's President, Kenneth Kaunda.\n\nIssues discussed at the conference included the situation in Rhodesia, the armed conflicts in Indo-China, the global growth of the refugee problem, the situation in Cyprus and Southern Africa. Mr Shridath Ramphal was re-appointed as Commonwealth Secretary-General during the meeting. The Lusaka Declaration of the Commonwealth on Racism and Racial Prejudice was issued at the end of the CHOGM, including a special declaration condemning apartheid. \n"}
{"id": "2065994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2065994", "title": "Cover (law)", "text": "Cover (law)\n\nCover is a term used in the law of contracts to describe a remedy available to a buyer who has received an anticipatory repudiation of a contract for the receipt of goods. Under the Uniform Commercial Code, the buyer is permitted (but not required) to find another source of the same type of goods. The buyer may then file a lawsuit against the breaching seller to recover the difference, if any, between the cost of the goods offered and the cost of the goods actually purchased.\n\nThe possibility of cover will prevent a party from being able to sue for specific performance, which is an equitable remedy that requires the buyer have no adequate remedy at law. If the buyer is able to buy elsewhere and sue for the difference, that provides an adequate remedy. This prohibition does not apply, however, to the sale of unique goods such as original works of art, collectibles, real estate, and exclusive rights.\n\nJudge Richard Posner has suggested that the availability of cover allows for efficient breach - that is, that it encourages the most efficient allocation of resources by allowing a seller to breach a contract to sell goods to one buyer when another, more lucrative opportunity comes along. The seller may thus be able to realize a sufficiently increased profit to make more money even after repaying the difference to the original buyer. Therefore, no value is lost in the transaction because the original buyer is in the same position he would have been in but for the breach, and the seller is in a better position.\n"}
{"id": "7438610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7438610", "title": "Dr Pepper", "text": "Dr Pepper\n\nDr Pepper is a carbonated soft drink marketed as having a unique flavor. The drink was created in the 1880s by pharmacist Charles Alderton in Waco, Texas and first served around 1885. Dr Pepper was first nationally marketed in the United States in 1904, and is now also sold in Europe, Asia, North and South America, and Australia, as well as New Zealand and South Africa as an imported good. Variants include a version without high fructose corn syrup, Diet Dr Pepper, as well as a line of additional flavors, first introduced in the 2000s.\n\nThe name \"Dr. Pepper\" was first used commercially in 1885. It was introduced nationally in the United States at the 1904 Louisiana Purchase Exposition as a new kind of soda pop, made with 23 flavors. Its introduction in 1885 preceded the introduction of Coca-Cola by one year.\n\nIt was formulated by Brooklyn-born pharmacist Charles Alderton in Morrison's Old Corner Drug Store in Waco, Texas. To test his new drink, he first offered it to store owner Wade Morrison, who also found it to his liking. Patrons at Morrison's soda fountain soon learned of Alderton's new drink and began ordering a \"Waco\". Alderton gave the formula to Morrison, who named it Dr. Pepper (later stylized as \"Dr Pepper\").\n\nAs with Coca-Cola, the formula for Dr Pepper is a trade secret, and allegedly the recipe is kept as two halves in safe deposit boxes in two separate Dallas banks. A persistent rumor since the 1930s is that the drink contains prune juice, but the official Dr Pepper FAQ refutes this with \"Dr Pepper is a unique blend of natural and artificial flavors; it does not contain prune juice.\" The origin of the rumor is unknown; some believe it was started by a deliveryman for a competitor trying to cast aspersions based on prune juice's laxative effects, but it may simply be because many people feel that Dr Pepper tastes similar to prune juice.\n\nIn 2009, an old ledger book filled with formulas and recipes was discovered by Bill Waters while shopping at antiques stores in the Texas Panhandle. Several sheets and letterheads hinted it had come from the W.B. Morrison & Co. Old Corner Drug Store (the same store where Dr Pepper was first served in 1885) and faded letters on the book's cover spelled out \"Castles Formulas\". John Castles was a partner of Morrison's for a time and worked at that location as early as 1880. One recipe in the book titled \"D Peppers Pepsin Bitters\" was of particular interest, and some speculated it could be an early recipe for Dr Pepper. However, Keurig Dr Pepper insists it is not the formula for Dr Pepper, but is instead a medicinal recipe for a digestive aid. The book was put up for auction in May 2009, but no one purchased it.\n\nTheories about the origins of the soft drink's name abound. One possible reason why the name was chosen was the practice, common at the time of the drink’s creation, of including \"Dr.\" in the names of products to convey the impression that they were healthful.\n\nA theory often cited is that the drink was named after an actual doctor, one Charles T. Pepper of Rural Retreat, Virginia. Morrison may have named the drink after the doctor in gratitude for Pepper having given Morrison his first job. However, Milly Walker, Collections Manager / Curator for the Dublin (Texas) Dr Pepper Bottling Co. Museum, has stated that U.S. Census records show that a young Morrison lived in Christiansburg, Virginia, 40 miles away from Rural Retreat, and that \"there is not one piece of evidence that Morrison ever worked for Charles T. Pepper in Rural Retreat\". Another story tells of Morrison naming the drink after Charles T. Pepper because the doctor granted Morrison permission to marry Pepper's daughter, but the girl in question was only eight years old at the time that Morrison moved to Waco.\n\nA Dr. Pepper of Christiansburg is another possible inspiration for the soft drink's name. In the census that shows Morrison living in Christiansburg and working as a pharmacy clerk, a Dr. Pepper is recorded on a subsequent page. Since census takers at this time were walking from door to door, and these census entries are close to each other in the record, it appears that Morrison and this Dr. Pepper lived close to each other. Furthermore, Pepper is recorded as having a 16-year-old daughter, named Malinda or Malissa.\nThe period (full stop) after \"Dr\" was used intermittently in Dr Pepper logos until the 1950s, when, after some debate, it was discarded permanently, for stylistic and legibility reasons. A logo that debuted at that time had slanted text, in which \"Dr.\" resembled \"Di:\".\n\nIn 1951, Dr Pepper sued the Coca-Cola company for US$750,000, asserting that nickel Coca-Colas were sold below cost and were a restraint of trade.\n\nIn 1972, Dr Pepper sued the Coca-Cola company for trademark infringement based on a soft drink marketed by Coca-Cola called \"Peppo\". Coca-Cola renamed their beverage Dr. Pibb, which was also determined to violate the trademark. The soft drink was later renamed Mr Pibb.\n\nDr Pepper became insolvent in the early 1980s, prompting an investment group to take the company private. Several years later, Coca-Cola attempted to acquire Dr Pepper, but was blocked from doing so by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). Around the same time, Seven Up was acquired from Phillip Morris by the same investment company that bailed out Dr Pepper. Upon the failure of the Coca-Cola merger, Dr Pepper and Seven Up merged (creating Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc., or DPSU), giving up international branding rights in the process. After the DPSU merger, Coca-Cola obtained most non-US rights to the Dr Pepper name (with PepsiCo taking the Seven Up rights).\n\nDr Pepper was a frequent player in the 1990s antitrust history of the United States. As part of these activities, economists and the courts have weighed in with the opinion that Dr Pepper is a \"pepper\" flavored drink and not a \"cola\". In 1995, the FTC blocked a merger between The Coca-Cola Company and Dr Pepper on grounds that included concerns about a monopoly of the \"pepper\" flavor category of soft drinks. In 1996, Dr Pepper was involved in an antitrust case involving Jerry Jones, the Dallas Cowboys, NFL Properties, Nike, and other commercial interests active at Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. Jones had made deals with Dr Pepper and the other companies that, the league said, violated their exclusive marketing contracts with Coca-Cola and other businesses. The NFL agreed to allow Jones and other teams to pursue their own agreements.\n\nIn 1998, the \"pepper\" flavor soda category was a major part of the analysis supporting an antitrust case between Coca-Cola and Pepsi.\n\n\n\nMuch of the soft drink industry in the United States stopped using sugar in the 1980s, in response to a series of price supports and import quotas introduced beginning in 1982 that increased the price of sugar above the global market price. As a result, most US soft drinks, including Dr Pepper, now use high fructose corn syrup instead of sugar.\n\nA handful of United States bottling plants still use sugar to sweeten Dr Pepper. The Dr Pepper bottling plant in Dublin, Texas used to produce such a beverage, known as Dublin Dr Pepper. In the 1980s, plant owner W.P. \"Bill\" Kloster (June 7, 1918 September 27, 1999) refused to convert the plant to high fructose corn syrup. Other bottlers still using sugar include Temple Bottling Company, in Temple, Texas, Ab-Tex in Abilene, and West Jefferson Dr Pepper (WJDP) of West Jefferson, NC.\n\nOn March 25, 2007, Coca-Cola bottlers in the Dr Pepper Heartland commenced sales of 16 ounce cans of Dr Pepper made with cane sugar and featuring a logo with 'Old Doc' on them. This product was scheduled to be a limited time release.\n\nIn January 2009, \"Heritage Dr Pepper\" became available in select markets in cans and 16 oz bottles with the distinction \"Made with Real Sugar.\"\n\nBeginning in July 2010, Dr Pepper's 125th Anniversary edition in some markets was made with sugar as opposed to other sweeteners. Since Dr Pepper Corporate has no control over whether the bottlers will use sugar, there is no guarantee the soda will have sugar.\n\nAs of January 2012, the bottling plant in Dublin, Texas, is no longer bottling Dr Pepper.\n\nThe soft drink industry in some other countries never stopped using sugar as a sweetener. For instance in the European Union, high fructose corn syrup is subject to a production quota. In 2005, this quota was set at 303,000 tons; in comparison, the EU produced an average of 18.6 million tons of sugar annually between 1999 and 2001. Therefore, most European soft drink producers, including most Dr Pepper bottling plants, still use sugar to sweeten their products. However, the bottlers of Dr Pepper in Germany and the United Kingdom use instead a combination of sugar and artificial sweeteners.\n\nIn the United States, Keurig Dr Pepper does not have a complete network of bottlers and distributors, so the drink is sometimes bottled under contract by Coca-Cola or Pepsi bottlers. Prior to the initial Cadbury Schweppes investment-turned-buyout, 30% of Dr Pepper/Seven Up products were produced and distributed by Pepsi bottlers, and another 30% by Coca-Cola bottlers. The remaining 40% were produced and distributed by independent bottlers (mainly consisting of Dr Pepper/Seven Up premerger regional bottlers) and the Dr Pepper/Seven Up Bottling Group. Currently, the majority of Pepsi and Coke bottlers bottling Dr Pepper are owned by PepsiCo and The Coca-Cola Company after their buyouts of their major bottlers.\n\nPresently, Dr Pepper Snapple relies on its own bottling group to bottle and distribute its products in more than 30 states. Coca-Cola and Pepsi have essentially stopped bottling and distributing Cadbury-Schweppes products in favor of in-house alternatives, although regional exceptions can be found.\n\nIn Canada and Poland, Cadbury-Schweppes has licensed distribution rights to PepsiCo. In Mexico, Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Finland, Austria, the Czech Republic, Belgium, and Norway, Cadbury-Schweppes owns the trademark and distributes the product. In Romania, it can be found only in larger cities, imported from Belgium. In Portugal, Spain, France, Turkey, and Greece, it is almost impossible to find, as it is usually imported from the United Kingdom in particular supermarkets. In almost all of the other countries of the world, the Coca-Cola Company purchased the trademark from Cadbury-Schweppes and distributes the product. This mixed worldwide ownership of the trademark is due to antitrust regulations which prevented Coca-Cola from purchasing the rights everywhere. Dr Pepper is also available in Russia (though imported, generally from Poland — there's no local bottling despite numerous talks), South Korea and Ukraine. Although no longer locally bottled in Australia or New Zealand, Dr Pepper is imported and sold by United States Foods, and many other small retailers in Australia, with the UK (sugar) version sold in the British sections of Coles and Woolworths supermarkets. Dr Pepper is not available in Thailand, North Korea and Serbia. It is rarely sold in the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, as it is imported from the United States. \n\nDr Pepper has been sold in Japan since 1973 and is widely available in greater Tokyo, Okinawa and parts of the Tōkai region, where it is distributed by local Coca-Cola bottlers. It is not actively marketed in other regions of Japan; Coca-Cola's Osaka bottler began selling Dr Pepper in 1983, but pulled the product two years later due to low sales.\n\n\n\"Dr Pepper Time\", according to one promotion, was at 10, 2 and 4 o'clock. During World War II, a syndicated radio program, \"The 10–2–4 Ranch\" (later titled \"10–2–4 Time\"), aired in the South and other areas where Dr Pepper was distributed. The show featured the Sons of the Pioneers and Dick Foran. In the 1960s, the tune of the chorus of \"The Glow-Worm\" was used in ads, with lyrics which ended, \"It's Dr Pepper Time!\"\n\nIn the 1960s, Dr Pepper released the \"Charge\" ad:\nThe \"Be a Pepper\" series referred to fans of Dr Pepper as \"Peppers\", and often featured large, sequential, crowd dance scenes, intricately choreographed by Tony Stevens and led onscreen by actor David Naughton. A recurring jingle was:\nThis became grist for a number of pop culture references and parodies. One of the first was a July 1981 sketch on the program \"SCTV\", in which an overly-excited injured man (Eugene Levy) extols the work of a \"Dr Shekter\" (Rick Moranis) who has been treating him. Levy and a group of patients wearing casts and crutches engage in their own elaborate dancing and singing (\"Wouldn't you like to see my doctor, too?\"), which Shekter first uses as an opportunity to explain his work, and then grows alarmed (\"These people should not be dancing!\"). In the 1982 sex farce \"Beach Girls\", the slogan became \"I'm a popper, he's a popper...\" Wreck-Gar parodied the slogan in \"The Return of Optimus Prime\".\n\nAfter appearing in a series of commercials, David Naughton had his breakthrough film role as the main character in the John Landis film \"An American Werewolf in London\". Another famous \"I'm a Pepper\" dancer was Ray Bolger, the actor who played the Scarecrow in the film \"The Wizard of Oz\".\n\nIn the early 1960s, Dr Pepper promoted the idea of serving the drink hot with lemon slices in winter. This idea appeared in the film \"Blast from the Past\" initially set in the early 1960s.\nIn 1978, Jake Holmes wrote the lyrics to \"Be a Pepper\". Earlier in the 1970s, Randy Newman wrote another jingle entitled \"The Most Original Soft Drink Ever\". Barry Manilow performed Holmes's jingle in concerts and on albums under the inclusion of \"VSM – Very Strange Medley\". A TV commercial was also created using the jingle and ran from 1977 to 1985. The song noted \"It's not a cola, it's something much much more. It's not a root beer, you get root beer by the score.\" (W.W. Clements, former CEO and president of the Dr Pepper/7-Up Company, similarly described the taste of Dr Pepper as one-of-a-kind, saying, \"I've always maintained you cannot tell anyone what Dr Pepper tastes like because it's so different. It's not an apple, it's not an orange, it's not a strawberry, it's not a root beer, it's not even a cola. It's a different kind of drink with a unique taste all its own.\")\n\nDr Pepper has also been featured outside the \"I'm a Pepper\" motif. An example is in the video game \"Pikmin 2\", where one of the collectible treasures is a Dr Pepper bottle cap (it is labeled as the \"Drought Ender\"). Also, an empty Dr Pepper bottle is featured in the book \"Ragweed\" by Newbery Medal-winning author Avi; the book’s illustrator, Brian Floca, is the son of a Dr Pepper bottler. Several of the classic non-\"I'm a Pepper\" commercials featured prominent movie stars, one being a television advertisement with Chris Rock as a child enjoying a Dr Pepper.\n\nThe 1980s \"Out of the Ordinary\" advertising campaign involved a series of postapocalyptic commercials featuring a space cowboy and an alien sidekick seeking \"something different\" from a simple generic cola. The campaign also produced commercials featuring the movie creature Godzilla, where citizens of a Japanese town offered Dr Pepper as a libation. The commercials were prominently featured during the 1986 syndication of \"The Canned Film Festival\", which was sponsored by the Dr Pepper Company.\n\nOutside the United States, Squeeze's Glenn Tilbrook and Chris Difford played for a Dr Pepper advert in the UK with the slogan, \"Hold out for the out of the ordinary.\"\n\nDr Pepper's \"Be You\" advertising campaign centered on commercials featuring pairs of popular musicians, including LeAnn Rimes with Reba McEntire, Paulina Rubio with Celia Cruz, Thalía with Tito Puente, B2K with Smokey Robinson, Anastacia with Cyndi Lauper, Patricia Manterola with Ana Gabriel, and LL Cool J with Run-D.M.C. The campaign also featured individual musicians, notably Garth Brooks.\n\nDr Pepper made several appearances in the 1994 Robert Zemeckis major motion picture \"Forrest Gump\", as it was the beverage of choice for the movie's namesake lead character, played by Tom Hanks. In one of the film's Dr Pepper scenes, Forrest's narrative suggests, \"The best part about goin' to the White House was, they had all the food and drink that you wanted ... I must have had me 15 Dr Peppers.\" When subsequently asked by the President how he felt, Forrest gave an honest answer of \"I gotta pee.\" Although, arguably the film's largest product placement installation, the depiction of Dr Pepper was perhaps not always accurate as, in another scene during the 1972 New Year's Eve celebration which Forrest attends, he drinks a Dr Pepper with a logo that was inconsistent with the timeline of the film.\n\nIn Australia, a report on the soft drink industry by IBIS accused Cadbury Schweppes of failing in their marketing of the brand, given its global appeal. One potential problem with the marketing campaign was in advertising it as \"American\". The use of the Statue of Liberty moving to Australia and passing cans of Dr Pepper on to two Australian males made its imported (i.e. \"non-Australian\") status clear.\n\nAfter withdrawing from the Australian market, Dr Pepper arrived without fanfare in New Zealand. Cans imported from the US are available in some specialty stores in New Zealand and Australia.\n\nOn the December 20, 2000, episode of the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", Letterman jokingly referred to Dr Pepper as \"liquid manure\". After a representative of Dr Pepper complained, CBS agreed not to rerun that episode. Letterman repeatedly made assurances on the show that he was joking.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2003, Diet Dr Pepper aired ads that promise authentic Dr Pepper taste, using the slogan \"Diet Dr Pepper tastes more like regular Dr Pepper\", parodying new ideas inferior to the originals, including XGA (not PGA) Extreme Golf, \"Green Bay Watch\" (spoof of \"Baywatch\") and a TV show \"CHimPs\" (rather than \"CHiPs\"). These ads were produced by They Might Be Giants.\n\nSeveral ads for Diet Cherry Vanilla Dr Pepper appeared on television in 2005. In one, a young woman on a blind date at a restaurant, who sips into the beverage, suddenly makes her date, restaurant patrons, and even a waitress all part of a musical sequence involving The Muppets version of the song \"Mah Nà Mah Nà\".\n\nOne campaign features the Queen song \"I Want It All\".\n\nOn January 1, 2008, the company unveiled a new TV ad campaign featuring the \"Cheers\" theme song (\"Where Everybody Knows Your Name\") performed by Gary Portnoy.\n\nIn a 2008 ad, a student in a college lecture takes a sip of Dr Pepper. When he stops drinking, the Dr Pepper can sings variations of \"Flava Licious\" (Flavor Flav), and other people in the room start dancing.\nIn 2008, Dr Pepper in the UK restarted launching its old adverts and slogan, \"What's the worst that can happen?\" They also started an on-pack promotion for free ringtones with up to 20 to collect. A commercial for this included Jesse Eisenberg being forced to be on live TV without his clothes on.\n\nAs of 2009, the slogan of the product was \"Drink it slow. Doctor's orders\". Advertising supporting the slogan has celebrities with famous relations to the word \"doctor\" (Dr. Dre, Julius \"Dr. J\" Erving, Gene Simmons (writer of the Kiss song \"Calling Dr. Love\"), et al.) or who played fictional doctors (such as Neil Patrick Harris or Kelsey Grammer) endorsing the beverage. The ads culminate with the celebrity stating, \"Trust me. I'm a doctor\", followed by the new slogan appearing onscreen with a glass of Dr Pepper.\n\nIn 2010, Dr Pepper was part of a marketing and promotional campaign with Marvel Studios to promote the summer blockbuster \"Iron Man 2\"; characters from the film adorned cans of Dr Pepper, Diet Dr Pepper, and Dr Pepper Cherry.\n\nIn 2011, rapper Pitbull appeared in a commercial with the slogan \"Let's have a real good time.\"\n\nAlso in 2011, Dr Pepper was featured in the anime \"Steins;Gate\" as Dk Pepper for copyright issues.\n\n\nIn 1963, singer Donna Loren became a spokesperson for the company when she was selected in a nationwide search to be the “Dr Pepper Girl”. National exposure followed for Loren as she promoted the drink via radio, print, television, calendars, billboards, and personal appearances. One of her first appearances for the company was as co-host with Dick Clark (whom she worked with regularly) of an ABC television special, \"Dr Pepper Celebrity Party\". She subsequently made hundreds of singing and personal appearances for Dr Pepper. In \"Dr Pepper—King of Beverages\", Dr Pepper historian Harry E. Ellis wrote, “Sparkly, vivacious and gifted with a wonderful voice, Donna was an immediate success. She became widely known in a short period as \"The Dr Pepper Girl,\" appearing at special events and on programs sponsored by the Company. Miss Loren would figure prominently in Dr Pepper’s plans for some five years, not only as an entertainer but doing commercials for radio and TV and appearing in many forms of advertising. She appeared on 24-sheet poster boards, point-of-sale and on Dr Pepper calendars.”\n\nDonna Loren’s role as Dr Pepper spokesperson led to her first appearance in the American International Pictures’ Beach Party film \"Muscle Beach Party\". Loren later explained: “Dr Pepper was involved in that [the Beach Party movies] and actually placed me as product placement. And because I could sing, they gave me a duet with Dick Dale, and then it just went on from there.” From this, she went on to appear in three more Beach Party films. Away from the company, Loren was a familiar presence in the 1960s due to her many performances on television, films, and her records for Capitol, Reprise and other labels. She represented Dr Pepper until 1968.\n\nFrom 1961 until 1981, Dr Pepper was also the sponsor of the Miss Teenage America beauty pageant.\n\nOn March 26, 2008, various media outlets reported that Dr Pepper would offer \"a free can of Dr Pepper to everyone in America\" – excluding former Guns N' Roses guitarists Buckethead and Slash – if the band released the long-awaited \"Chinese Democracy\" in 2008. Later in the day, lead vocalist Axl Rose replied to Dr Pepper on Guns N' Roses' official website and spoke of his surprise at Dr Pepper's support. Rose also said he would share his Dr Pepper with Buckethead as \"some of Buckethead's performances are on \"Chinese Democracy\"\". After it was announced that the album would be released in 2008, Dr Pepper stated that it would uphold its pledge. \n\nDr Pepper's online distribution of free coupons upon the album's release November 23, 2008, proved inadequate. Lawyers for the band threatened Dr Pepper's parent company with a lawsuit two days after the album's release. In a letter to Dr Pepper, Rose's lawyer Alan Gutman said, \"The redemption scheme your company clumsily implemented for this offer was an unmitigated disaster which defrauded consumers and, in the eyes of vocal fans, ruined \"Chinese Democracy\"'s release.\" Rose's lawyer also demanded that the company make a full-page apology that would appear in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"USA Today\", \"The New York Times\" and \"The Los Angeles Times\". In a later interview, Rose claimed he told his lawyers it was a non-issue and was surprised by their actions.\n\nThe Dr Pepper Museum, located in the Artesian Manufacturing and Bottling Company building at 300 South Fifth Street in downtown Waco, Texas, opened to the public in 1991. The building was the first building to be built specifically to bottle Dr Pepper. It was completed in 1906, and Dr Pepper was bottled there until the 1960s. The museum has three floors of exhibits, a working old-fashioned soda fountain, and a gift store of Dr Pepper memorabilia.\n\nThe museum founder, Wilton Lanning, died in January 2018.\n\nThe company sells more Dr Pepper in the Roanoke Valley area of Virginia than any other metropolitan area east of the Mississippi River. Roanoke is approximately 90 miles east of the hometown of Dr. Charles T. Pepper, which is Rural Retreat, Virginia, and 30 miles east of Christiansburg, Virginia, home of Dr. Pepper and Morrison referred to in the census information above. John William \"Bill\" Davis opened the first Dr. Pepper plant east of the Mississippi in Roanoke in 1936; subsequently the city was named the \"Dr Pepper Capital of the World\" and broke world records for its mass consumption of Dr Pepper in the late 1950s. Dr Pepper donated a portion of its sales revenue in the Roanoke area to finance restoration of a circa-1950s neon Dr Pepper sign, which has the company's \"10–2–4\" logo from the time, in downtown Roanoke. In October 2015, the city of Roanoke declared October 24 (10-2-4) to be its official Dr. Pepper Day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54372938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54372938", "title": "Falsified Medicines Directive", "text": "Falsified Medicines Directive\n\nThe Falsified Medicines Directive is a legal framework introduced by the European Commission, to improve the protection of public health within the European Union. The directive applies since 2 January 2013. The European Commission Delegated Regulation, (EU) 2016/161, supplements Directive 2001/83/EC with rules regarding safety features for the packaging of medicinal products for human use. The regulation was adopted in October 2015. Measures to counteract to fake medicines include stricter record-keeping of wholesale distributors, tougher inspections of pharmaceutical producers, an EU-wide quality mark to identify online pharmacies and obligatory safety features on packages.\n\nIt requires that a unique identifier must be encoded in a two-dimensional barcode printed on each unit of sale package which is to contain:\n\nThere must be a Tamper Evident Device.\n\n2,291 pharmaceutical companies with marketing authorisations to supply prescription medicines to the European Economic Area are required to connect to the EU Hub established by the European Medicines Verification Organisation and upload the unique identifier for each pack of medicine they manufacture or repackage before February 2019. By August 2018 only 841 companies had completed the first stage of connection, which may take up to six months.\n\n"}
{"id": "10729823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10729823", "title": "Fare evasion", "text": "Fare evasion\n\nFare evasion or ticket evasion, as distinct from \"fare avoidance\" or \"ticket avoidance\", is the act of travelling on public transport in disregard of the law and/or regulation, having deliberately not purchased the required ticket to travel (having had the chance to do so). It is a problem in many parts of the world, and revenue protection officers operate on many systems. Often ticket barriers, manned or automatic, are in place at stations etc., to ensure only those with valid tickets may access the transport.\n\nFare evasion and fare fraud is generally a crime in most jurisdictions. The fare not paid, compared to potential penalties and hassle, is generally considered “not worth it”.\n\nFare evasion can be a chronic problem in transit systems, especially large cities like New York or Paris. From classic turnstile “vaulting” and “slugs” instead of legitimate tokens to elaborate schemes involving stolen faregate keys, fraudulent electronic fare media, “forgetting” proof-of-payment (POP) receipts, or “two card monte” that takes advantage of fare system features, many ways exist to avoid paying fares. Indeed, industry standard revenue ‘leakage’ is reportedly 3%~6%. Evasion is so rampant in some cities that conversion from POP to turnstiles is being proposed or seriously considered.\n\nIn the transit world, fare abuse studies are sometimes shrouded in utmost secrecy and treated like classified information, but it is widely discussed in popular press, local television news, criminal justice literature, economics research, and internet blogs; in New York, New Jersey, Boston, Chicago, Atlanta, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle, Vancouver, Edmonton, London, and Paris. Four agencies (TransLink, King County Metro, Edmonton, New York) made evasion audit findings public, San Francisco (Muni) and Atlanta (MARTA) presented papers, while Toronto addressed evasion in a fare collection study, at least one confidential international benchmarking study was published, and Federal Transit Administration has even requested special studies of non-farebox passengers within the context of National Transit Database ridership reporting.\n\nOne method of fare evasion is jumping or clinging over the turnstiles which mark the entryway into a subway system; hence the term, “turnstile jumping”. Fare-dodgers also can walk right behind a passenger with a valid ticket before closing of ticket barrier gates. Other methods include adults traveling on children’s tickets, or using discounted tickets or free passes that the passenger is not entitled to.\n\nHowever, ticket barriers are often watched by ticket inspectors and guards, and in that case fare-dodgers can climb over fences of a station or simply walk alongside railway tracks or use passes for railway staff to enter or exit the station without passing through ticket barriers. In some cases fare-dodgers can break and destroy fences around a train station to make a passage.\n\nOn a vehicles fare-dodgers usually try to avoid meeting with ticket inspectors or conductors. \n\nOn a commuter trains with a sufficient number of passenger coaches one of the most common methods is walking away from ticket inspectors to other coaches and running on the platform in the opposite direction to the coaches that ticket inspectors already passed. On short commuter trains or especially intercity and long-distance passenger trains fare-dodgers can try to hide from ticket inspectors in toilets, luggage compartments, staff rooms and other utility chambers inside the train. \n\nAnother issue occurs on the bus or tram; passengers could either bypass the bus driver or simply enter through the rear door of the vehicle. This is commonly found under the New York City Bus system which causes its operators to lose millions of dollars a year. If a bus or tram has a turnstile installed in it, fare-dodgers can jump over or crawl under the turnstile. In most countries passengers board a bus from any door, validate their tickets at machines and have no contact with the driver, thus increasing the potential for fare evasion.\n\nPassengers can also arrange for ticket inspectors to allow them to travel by offering bribes.\n\nThe most extreme method of fare evasion is a riding on exterior parts of a vehicle (on a rooftops, rear parts, between cars or underneath a vehicle), also known as a vehicle surfing (train surfing, car surfing). Another method is hiding inside the utility cells under a railway car. Fare dodgers can practice this type of travelling unless it is very hard or impossible to hide from ticket inspectors inside a vehicle. \n\nTurnstiles are used to obstruct invalid access. Since most fare-dodgers know how to pass a gate without paying, turnstiles may be replaced with ticket barriers in a less easily transversed form, or may be integrated more closely with an electronic ticket system. Ticket barriers can also require the travellers to show their tickets upon exiting. Typically turnstiles are used at train stations, however some city transit systems install turnstiles inside city street vehicles, for example buses and trams.\nPanic bars on emergency exit doors, which sound an alarm when the door is opened, are in all stations of the New York City Subway.\n\nPanic bars were also installed\non Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) in Boston and on Chicago Transit\nAuthority (CTA). This provided an impetus for renewed interests in evasion, because\nevaders could enter through gates when already opened by exiting passengers.\n\nClosed-circuit television (CCTV) monitoring is used by many public transport companies to combat vandalism and other public order crimes. Using CCTV to apprehend fare-dodgers in the act requires full-time human monitoring of the cameras. \nSophisticated CCTV systems discriminate the scenes to detect and segregate suspicious behaviour from numerous screens and to enable automatic alerting. However, the attentiveness of the surveillance personnel may be threatened by false reliance on automatics.\n\nWith manual fare collection, fare evasion can become more difficult and stigmatizing for the fare-dodging traveller, especially usage of discounted tickets (for example child, student or pensioner tickets) by passengers who are not allowed to use it. Ticket inspectors can verify tickets of passengers during the trip or during a boarding on vehicle (the last form of fare control is a common practice on long-distance rail transport). In some cases ticket inspectors are assigned to a certain vehicle during its trip on entire route (usually on long-distance or some commuter transport) and often, in another cases they randomly check multiple vehicles (usually city public transport and some commuter transport). Transit systems which use honor systems under normal circumstances may employ staff to collect fares at times and places where heavy use can be expected - for example, at stations serving a stadium after the conclusion of a major sporting event.\n\nTicket inspectors can also watch for turnstiles at train stations to avoid unauthorized passing without a valid ticket and using discounted tickets. Ticket inspectors may or may not be allowed to use force to prevent or apprehend fare-dodgers.\n\nThe presence of uniformed guards can act as a deterrent to fare evasion, especially unauthorized passing through turnstiles. Guards may or may not be allowed to use force to prevent or apprehend fare-dodgers.\n\nPolice officers can watch for turnstiles and escort ticket inspectors in vehicles, and unlike ticket inspectors and guards they always allowed to use force to prevent or apprehend fare-dodgers. It is sometimes common for police officers dressed in plain clothes to patrol subway stations. As such, they have all the jurisdiction that normal officer have when policing the transit system. New South Wales trains in Australia use a combination of ticket inspectors and police patrols to enforce compliance with fare requirements. These police are part of NSW Police Force’s transport command and are equipt with smart card readers to inspect tickets, NSW trains having eliminated paper tickets completely from 2016.\n\nA \"penalty fare\" is a special fare charged at a higher than normal price because the purchaser did not comply with the normal ticket purchasing rules. Typically penalty fares are incurred by passengers failing to purchase a ticket before travelling or by purchasing an incorrect ticket which does not cover their whole journey. \n\nPenalty fares are not fines, and are used when no legal basis for prosecuting fare evasion exists, prosecution is deemed too drastic and costly, or is unlikely to result in conviction.\n\nOn some systems, fare evasion is considered a misdemeanor. In such cases, police officers and in some cases transit employees are authorized to issue tickets which usually carry a heavy fine. Then, charged persons can then be tried in court. Repeat violators and severe cases, such as ticket forgery, are punished more severely and sometimes involve incarceration. Wealthy offenders face stiffer penalties than poorer offenders.\n\nEvasion fines vary. On Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority\n(MARTA), evasion fines range from $85 to $235, whereas they “start at $50” on the San Francisco Municipal Railway. In Boston, prior to CharlieCard AFC implementation and conversion of booth clerks to\nroving agents, MBTA quietly asked Massachusetts State Legislature to make evasions a civil offense punishable by progressive fines ($15 first offense; $100 second; $250 third or subsequent). On the Newark Light Rail, which uses a proof-of-payment system, the fine was initially $75, but increased to $100 in 2008. \n\nIn the US, the MBTA, CTA, and Port Authority Trans-Hudson (PATH) also use sophisticated camera equipment. The MBTA even apprehended vandals damaging AFC equipment while evading, and published the video footage.\n"}
{"id": "38843336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38843336", "title": "Filial responsibility laws", "text": "Filial responsibility laws\n\nFilial responsibility laws (filial support laws, filial piety laws) are laws in the United States that impose a duty upon third parties, usually (but not always) adult children for the support of their impoverished parents or other relatives. In some cases the duty is extended to other relatives. Such laws may be enforced by governmental or private entities and may be at the state or national level. While most filial responsibility laws contemplate civil enforcement, some include criminal penalties for adult children or close relatives who fail to provide for family members when challenged to do so. The key concept is \"impoverished\", as there is no requirement that the parent be aged. For non-Western societies, the term \"filial piety\" has been applied to family responsibilities toward elders.\nA “filial responsibility law” is not the same thing as the provision in United States federal law which requires a “lookback” of five years in the financial records of anyone applying for Medicaid to ensure that the person did not give away assets in order to qualify for Medicaid.\n\nFilial support laws were an outgrowth of the Elizabethan Poor Law of 1601.\n\nAt one time, as many as 45 U.S. states had statutes obligating an adult child to care for his or her parents. Some states repealed their filial support laws after Medicaid took a greater role in providing relief to elderly patients without means. Other states did not, and a large number of filial support laws remain dormant on the books.\nGenerally, the media has not covered filial responsibility laws much, and there has not been the political will to see that they are enforced. As of 2012, twenty-nine states have such laws on the books, and a few states require the potential support of grandparents or even siblings.\n\nTypically, these laws obligate adult children (or depending on the state, other family members) to pay for their indigent parents’/relatives' food, clothing, shelter and medical needs. Should the children fail to provide adequately, they allow nursing homes and government agencies to bring legal action to recover the cost of caring for the parents. Adult children can even go to jail in some states if they fail to provide filial support.\n\nAlaska,\nArkansas,\nCalifornia,\nConnecticut,\nDelaware,\nGeorgia,\nIndiana,\nIowa,\nKentucky,\nLouisiana,\nMassachusetts,\nMississippi,\nMontana,\nNevada (Nevada law only addresses support of children and not support of parents. NRS Chapter 125B),\nNew Hampshire,\nNew Jersey,\nNorth Carolina,\nNorth Dakota,\nOhio,\nOregon,\nPennsylvania,\nRhode Island,\nSouth Dakota,\nTennessee,\nUtah,\nVermont,\nVirginia,\nWest Virginia.\n\nSource: \"Filial Responsibility: Can the Legal Duty to Support Our Parents Be Effectively Enforced\"? by Shannon Frank Edelstone, appearing in the Fall 2002 issue of the American Bar Association's Family Law Quarterly, 36 Fam. L.Q. 501 (2002). Lexic.com.\n\nIn addition, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico also has filial responsibility laws.\n\nIn 2012, the media reported the case of John Pittas, whose mother had received care in a skilled nursing facility in Pennsylvania after an accident and then moved to Greece. The nursing home sued her son directly, before even trying to collect from Medicaid. A court in Pennsylvania ruled that the son must pay, according to the Pennsylvania filial responsibility law.\nPersons who are related in a \"direct line\" (grandparents, parents, children, grandchildren) are required to support each other, this includes children with impoverished parents (\"\", \"support to parents\").\nClose relatives (such as children, parents and spouses) are required to support each other in case of need (\", \"duty to support\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12193157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12193157", "title": "Foundation (United States law)", "text": "Foundation (United States law)\n\nA foundation in the United States is a type of charitable organization. However, the Internal Revenue Code distinguishes between private foundations (usually funded by an individual, family, or corporation) and public charities (community foundations and other nonprofit groups that raise money from the general public). Private foundations have more restrictions and fewer tax benefits than public charities like community foundations.\n\nThe two most famous philanthropists of the Gilded Age pioneered the sort of large-scale private philanthropy of which foundations are a modern pillar: John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie. The businessmen each accumulated private wealth at a scale previously unknown outside of royalty, and each in their later years decided to give much of it away. Carnegie gave away the bulk of his fortune in the form of one-time gifts to build libraries and museums before divesting almost the entirety of his remaining fortune in the Carnegie Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation of New York. Rockefeller followed suit (notably building the University of Chicago) and gave nearly half of his fortune to create the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1914, Frederick Goff, a well-known banker at the Cleveland Trust Company, sought to eliminate the \"dead hand\" of organized philanthropy and so created the first community foundation in Cleveland. He created a corporately structured foundation that could utilize community gifts in a responsive and need-appropriate manner. Scrutiny and control resided in the \"live hand\" of the public as opposed to the \"dead hand\" of the founders of private foundations.\n\nStarting at the end of World War II, the United States's high top income tax rates spurred a burst of new foundations and trusts, many of which were simply tax shelters. President Harry S. Truman publicly raised this issue in 1950, resulting in a federal law later that year that brought new rigor and definition to the practice. The law did not go very far in regulating tax-exempt foundations, however—a fact made obvious throughout the rest of that decade as financial advisers continued to push the foundation-as-tax-refuge model to wealthy families and individuals. Several attempts at passing a more complete reform during the 1960s culminated in the Tax Reform Act of 1969, which remains the controlling legislation in the United States. For more details on that legislative history, see .\n\nIn the United States, an entity with \"foundation\" in its name is generally expected, in most cases, to be a charitable foundation. Nonetheless, an organization may have the word \"foundation\" in its name and not be a charitable foundation—though state law may impose restrictions. For example, Michigan permits its use only for nonprofits with \"the purpose of receiving and administering funds for perpetuation of the memory of persons, preservation of objects of historical or natural interest, educational, charitable, or religious purposes, or public welfare.\" The distinction between charitable organizations and non-profit organizations elaborates on this point.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Code defines many kinds of non-profit organizations that do not pay income tax. However, only charitable organizations can receive tax-deductible contributions and avoid paying property and sales tax. For instance, a donor would receive a tax deduction for money given to a local soup kitchen if the organization was classified as a 501(c)(3) organization, but not for giving money to the National Football League, even though the NFL is a 501(c)(6) non-profit association. Neither a public charity nor a foundation can pay for or participate in partisan political activity, unless they surrender tax-exempt status including voiding the deductibility of any tax deductions for donors after the surrender or revocation date.\n\nTax-exempt charitable organizations fall into two categories: public charities and private foundations. A community foundation is a public charity. The US Tax Code in 26 USCA 509 governs private foundations. Meanwhile, 26 USCA 501(c)(3) governs public charities.\n\nCommunity foundations are instruments of civil society designed to pool donations into a coordinated investment and grant-making facility dedicated primarily to the social improvement of a given place. In other words, a community foundation is like a public foundation. This type of foundation requires community representation in the governing board and grants made to improve the community. Often, a city has a community foundation with a governing board composed of many leaders of the business, religious, and local interests. Grants that the community foundation makes must benefit the people of that city.\n\nExpress public involvement and oversight in community foundations allow their classification as public charities rather than private foundations.\n\nPrivate foundations typically have a single major source of funding (usually gifts from one family or corporation rather than funding from many sources) and most have as their primary activity the making of grants to other charitable organizations and to individuals, rather than the direct operation of charitable programs. When a person or a corporation founds a private foundation frequently family members of that person or agents of the corporation are members of the governing board. This limits public scrutiny over the private foundation, which entails unfavorable treatment compared to community foundations.\n\nThe differing treatment of private foundations compared to public charities including community foundations is as follows:\n\nFor tax purposes, there are a few variants of private foundation. The material difference is between \"operating\" foundations and \"grant-making\" foundations. Operating foundations use their endowment to achieve their goals directly. Grant-making foundations use their endowment to make grants to other organizations, which indirectly carry out the goals of the foundation. Operating foundations have preferential tax treatment in a few areas, including allowing individual donors to contribute more of their income and allowing grant-making foundation contributions to count towards the 5% minimum distribution requirement.\n\nThe Tax Reform Act of 1969 defined the fundamental social contract offered to private foundations. In exchange for exemption from paying most taxes and for limited tax benefits being offered to donors, a private foundation must (a) pay out at least 5% of the value of its endowment each year, none of which may be to the private benefit of any individual; (b) not own or operate significant for-profit businesses; (c) file detailed public annual reports and conduct annual audits in the same manner as a for-profit corporation; (d) meet a suite of additional accounting requirements unique to nonprofits.\n\nAdministrative and operating expenses count towards the 5% requirement; they range from trivial at small unstaffed foundations, to more than half a percent of the endowment value at larger staffed ones. Congressional proposals to exclude those costs from the payout requirement typically receive much attention during boom periods when foundation endowments are earning investment returns much greater than 5% (such as the late 1990s); the idea typically fades when foundation endowments are shrinking in a down market (such as 2001-2003).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20091356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20091356", "title": "Government contract proposal", "text": "Government contract proposal\n\nA government contract proposal, often called a government proposal in business, is a response to written requirements issued by a government entity that wants to buy something. All areas of government (national, state/provincial, and local) use written requirements to buy products or services to make purchasing fair and reduce costs. Outside of business circles, \"government proposal\" is commonly used to mean a legislative or other proposal by a government, in other words a legislative motion.\n\nGovernments request competitive contract proposals when they believe there are more issues than initial cost in buying a needed product or service. In addition to cost, governments often consider issues such as risk (i.e., Will the product or service meet the government need?), schedule (i.e., Will the product or service be delivered or finished in time?), quality (i.e., Will the product or service meet the need each time it is delivered or needed?), long-term cost (i.e., What is the total cost of a product or service over its lifetime?). Most governments use proposals to buy any product that is not a commodity or to buy services that are not routine.\n\nIn the United States, federal proposals are governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation, commonly referred to as the FAR. Most countries have at least some form of purchasing regulations that govern proposals. Regional and local governments have similar laws, although enforcement varies greatly.\n\nGovernment proposals are written in response to specific requests for proposals (RFPs). The RFPs specify the government's requirements for the product or service it intends to buy. In the United States, federal RFPs also specify, in accordance with the FAR, how the proposal should be prepared (Section L in the RFP) and what criteria will be used to evaluate proposals (Section M) Federal Acquisition Regulations. Other countries, states and local governments may also provide requirements for proposal preparation and evaluation criteria, although this is not always the case.\n\nMost government proposals contain the following sections:\n\nMost government proposals require a quality assurance plan, usually synonymous with AS9100.\n\nBecause government proposals are always produced in response to written requirements, the proposals are lengthy in order to address adequately each requirement and, in the case of competitive proposals, the vendor's need to differentiate its product or service from other vendors. Short government proposals, including cost data, are at least 10 pages. Large proposals can range up to thousands of pages.\n\nGovernment proposals are expensive to produce because of detailed requirements and necessary cost and scheduling information. Experts estimate the cost of producing a successful government proposal to be in the range of 0.5% to 2% of the initial contract value. \n\n\nProposal Theme Statements\n\nProposal (business)\n"}
{"id": "9663177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9663177", "title": "Gun law in the United States", "text": "Gun law in the United States\n\nGun laws in the United States are found in a number of state and federal statutes. These laws regulate the manufacture, trade, possession, transfer, record keeping, transport, and destruction of firearms, ammunition, and firearms accessories. They are enforced by state agencies and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF).\n\nIn addition to federal and state gun laws some local governments have their own laws that regulate firearms. The right to keep and bear arms is protected by the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution. However, mass shootings in the U.S. have led to public debate about gun control laws in the U.S., since nearly all school shootings have been carried out using pistols and shotguns.\n\nMost federal gun laws are found in the following acts:\n\n\nFugitives, those convicted of a felony with a sentence exceeding 2 years, or 2 year for a misdemeanor, past or present, and those who were involuntarily admitted to a mental facility are prohibited from purchasing a firearm. Forty-four states have a provision in their state constitutions similar to the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution, which protects the right to keep and bear arms. The exceptions are California, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, and New York. In New York, however, the statutory civil rights laws contain a provision virtually identical to the Second Amendment. Additionally, the U.S. Supreme Court held in \"McDonald v. Chicago\" that the protections of the Second Amendment to keep and bear arms for self-defense in one's home apply against state governments and their political subdivisions.\n\nThe right to keep and bear arms in the United States is protected by the Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. While there have been contentious debates on the nature of this right, there was a lack of clear federal court rulings defining the right until the two U.S. Supreme Court cases of \"District of Columbia v. Heller\" (2008) and \"McDonald v. City of Chicago\" (2010).\n\nAn individual right to own a gun for personal use was affirmed in the landmark \"District of Columbia v. Heller\" decision in 2008, which overturned a handgun ban in the Federal District of Columbia. In the \"Heller\" decision, the court's majority opinion said that the Second Amendment protects \"the right of law-abiding, responsible citizens to use arms in defense of hearth and home.\"\n\nHowever, in delivering the majority opinion, Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia wrote on the Second Amendment not being an unlimited right:\n\nThe four dissenting justices argued that the majority had broken prior precedent on the Second Amendment, and took the position that the amendment refers to an individual right, but in the context of militia service.\n\nIn the \"McDonald v. City of Chicago\" decision in 2010, the Supreme Court ruled that, because of the incorporation of the Bill of Rights, the guarantee of an individual right to bear arms applies to state and local gun control laws and not just federal laws.\n\nThe Supreme Court has not ruled on whether the Second Amendment protects the right to carry guns in public for self-defense. Federal appeals courts have issued conflicting rulings on this point. For example, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit ruled in 2012 that it does, saying, \"The Supreme Court has decided that the amendment confers a right to bear arms for self-defense, which is as important outside the home as inside.\" However, the Tenth Circuit Court ruled in 2013 that it does not, saying, \"In light of our nation's extensive practice of restricting citizen's freedom to carry firearms in a concealed manner, we hold that this activity does not fall within the scope of the Second Amendment's protections.\" More recently, the Ninth Circuit Court ruled in its 2016 decision \"Peruta v. San Diego County\" that the Second Amendment does not guarantee the right of gun owners to carry concealed firearms in public.\n\nThe following persons are eligible to possess and own firearms within the United States, though further restrictions apply:\n\nEach state has its own laws regarding who is allowed to own or possess firearms, and there are various state and federal permitting and background check requirements. Controversy continues over which classes of people, such as convicted felons, people with severe or violent mental illness, and people on the federal no-fly list, should be excluded. Laws in these areas vary considerably, and enforcement is in flux.\n\nGun Control Act (codified at 18 U.S.C. § 922(g),(n),(d)) makes it unlawful for certain categories of people to ship, transport, receive, or possess firearms or ammunition, to include any person:\n\nThe above categories are addressed on the ATF Firearms Transaction Record 4473 background check form. According to the US Sentencing Commission, approximately 5,000 to 6,000 people a year are convicted of receiving or possessing a firearm against one of the prohibitions above.\n\nUnder United States law, any company or gunsmith which in the course of its business manufactures guns or gun parts, or modifies guns for resale, must be licensed as a manufacturer of firearms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56602770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56602770", "title": "Houston's First Sit-in March 4, 1960", "text": "Houston's First Sit-in March 4, 1960\n\nHouston's first sit-in was held Friday, March 4, 1960 at the Weingarten's grocery store lunch counter located at 4110 Almeda Road, Houston, Texas. This sit-in was a nonviolent, direct action protest led by more than a dozen Texas Southern University students. The sit-in was organized to protest Houston's legal segregation laws. The students met on Texas Southern University's campus and the YMCA located on Wheeler Street to organize the sit-in. They called their meetings 'war room' sessions. In these sessions, the students strategized like a military unit on how they would dismantle Houston's disenfranchisement laws. They believed that their peaceful approach was a tactic that would break Houston's discriminatory practices. It worked. The students called themselves the Progressive Youth Association (PYA). PYA was formed to address the social, political and economic issues that African-Americans faced in Houston. The Houston collegians were inspired by students at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University, who held a sit-in in Greensboro, North Carolina on February 1, 1960.\n\nOn the day of the Houston sit-in, the students met at a flag pole located at Hannah Hall on TSU's campus. They said a prayer; lined up in pairs, and begin to march to the Weingarten's lunch counter. As they marched down Wheeler Street, they sang black spirituals. Others joined in the rally as the students marched down Wheeler Street. Upon arriving at Weingarten's, the students went into the store and sat at the lunch counter. Customers and employees hurled insults at them. They were never served. However, this did not deter the students from holding sit-ins at other segregated businesses in Houston. \n\nAs a result of the students' actions, Houston leaders, black and white, met to discuss how to peacefully desegregate Houston. The students were unaware of the meetings. Media blackouts were held by white owned media about the students' initiatives to end racial segregation in Houston. However, not long after the students held the March 1 sit-in, Houston businesses quietly desegregated. The revolutionary actions of TSU students and others at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) played a role in the U.S. ultimately signing the Civil Rights Act of 1964 into law.\n\nFifty years later, Serbino Sandifer-Walker, a journalism professor at the same university, organized a march with the original students, current students, city leaders, state leaders, and many others to commemorate this historic day. A U.S. post office now sits at the location. However, a Texas Historical Marker sits in the front of the facility to commemorate the courageous Texas Southern University students who led that first sit-in, which played a major role in the desegregation of Houston, Texas. \n"}
{"id": "43933497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43933497", "title": "Hunter v. City of Pittsburgh", "text": "Hunter v. City of Pittsburgh\n\nHunter v. Pittsburgh, 207 U.S. 161 (1907), is a landmark case in establishing the supreme sovereignty of a state over its municipalities.\n\nIn 1906, Pennsylvania passed a law permitting the joining of adjacent municipalities if, during an election regarding the issue, the majority of all votes passed approve the union. Subsequently, the City of Pittsburgh filed in state court to begin the process of an election regarding joining with the City of Allegheny, Pennsylvania. Allegheny pushed back but was turned down in court. The election was allowed to continue, and a majority of all voters within the two cities combined voted for joining. However, a vast majority of voters in Allegheny voted in opposition; thus, most of the votes in favor came from Pittsburgh. But because the majority of the total votes were in favor, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania ruled the union constitutional under Pennsylvania law. Plaintiffs appealed under the United States Constitution Article 1 section 10 paragraph 1 (contract clause) and Amendment 14 (due process clause).\n\nThe United States Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the Pennsylvania law violated neither Article 1 nor Amendment 14 of the United States Constitution. Some important lines from the opinion concerning the supremacy of states over the municipalities include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34852260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34852260", "title": "Imperial Diet (Austria)", "text": "Imperial Diet (Austria)\n\nThe Austrian Reichstag (\"National Diet\" or \"Imperial Diet\" in the German language) was the first elected parliament in the Austrian Empire. It lasted for only a short time between 1848 and 1849, but had an important effect on Austrian history.\n\nFormed after the March Revolution of 1848, the Diet consisted of 383 deputies from the German-speaking and Slavic crown lands of the Habsburg Austria, that is, without a representative of the Kingdom of Hungary. It met for the first time on 22 July 1848 and was opened by Archduke Johann. On 22 October 1848, in the wake of the Vienna Uprising, it relocated to Kremsier and was finally dissolved on 7 March 1849. Its most important work was the abolition of the feudal system.\n\nThe concept of a Reichstag as representative body of the Austrian people turned up again in the October Diploma of 1860, but this would have required ratification by the various state legislatures of the Austrian Empire, which was not forthcoming.\n\nAfter the adoption of the February Patent in 1861, another attempt was made to elect a general representative body for the people, mainly from Prime Minister Anton von Schmerling. This, too, failed due to opposition from the Hungarian and Italian, and subsequently, Czech lands of the empire. A rump parliament did serve in a temporary wooden building in the Schmerling Theater in Vienna. This Parliament was named the Reichsrat (\"Imperial Council\" in German), because Emperor Francis Joseph I wanted it to serve in only a consultative role. Finally a formalized Reichsrat was created in 1867 and associated with the new constitution of Austria-Hungary on an institutional basis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1712142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1712142", "title": "Implied warranty", "text": "Implied warranty\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, an implied warranty is a contract law term for certain assurances that are presumed to be made in the sale of products or real property, due to the circumstances of the sale. These assurances are characterized as warranties irrespective of whether the seller has expressly promised them orally or in writing. They include an implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, an implied warranty of merchantability for products, implied warranty of workmanlike quality for services, and an implied warranty of habitability for a home.\n\nThe warranty of merchantability is implied, unless expressly disclaimed by name, or the sale is identified with the phrase \"as is\" or \"with all faults.\" To be \"merchantable\", the goods must reasonably conform to an ordinary buyer's expectations, i.e., they are what they say they are. For example, a fruit that looks and smells good but has hidden defects would violate the implied warranty of merchantability if its quality does not meet the standards for such fruit \"as passes ordinarily in the trade\". In Massachusetts consumer protection law, it is illegal to disclaim this warranty on household goods sold to consumers.\n\nThe warranty of fitness for a particular purpose is implied when a buyer relies upon the seller to select the goods to fit a specific request. For example, this warranty is violated when a buyer asks a mechanic to provide snow tires and receives tires that are unsafe to use in snow. This implied warranty can also be expressly disclaimed by name, thereby shifting the risk of unfitness back to the buyer.\n\nAnother implied warranty is the warranty of title, which implies that the seller of goods has the right to sell them (e.g., they are not stolen, or patent infringements, or already sold to someone else). Theoretically, this saves a buyer from having to \"pay twice\" for a product, if it is confiscated by the rightful owner, but only if the seller can be found and makes restitution.\n\nAn implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose is a warranty implied by law that \"if\" a seller knows or has reason to know of a \"particular purpose\" for which some item is being purchased by the buyer, the seller is guaranteeing that the item is fit for that particular purpose.\n\nIn international sales law, the obligation is found in Article 35(2)(b) of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.\n\nIn Australia, the obligation is in section 55 of Schedule 2 (\"The Australian Consumer Law\") of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).\n\nIn the United States, the obligation is in Article 2, Section 315 of the Uniform Commercial Code. The warranty of fitness applies to all sellers, unlike warranty of merchantability which applies only to professional merchants. In the United States, this warranty is sometimes referred to simply as a warranty of fitness.\n\nAn implied warranty of merchantability is a warranty implied by law that goods are reasonably fit for the general purpose for which they are sold.\n\nIn international sales law, merchantability forms part of the ordinary purpose of the goods. According to Article 35(2)(a) of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, a seller must provide goods fit for their ordinary purpose.\n\nIn Australia, the obligation is in section 54 of Schedule 2 (\"The Australian Consumer Law\") of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth). Each State and Territory now applies the Australian Consumer Law (ACL) as the law of the state. This has created a uniform consumer protection law across the entire country.\n\nThe Sale of Goods Act 1979 states that in a contract for the sale of goods it is an implied condition that the goods supplied are of merchantable quality. The implied condition is excluded if any defects are drawn to the buyer's attention before the contract is concluded or if the buyer examines the goods before the contract is concluded and finds, or ought to have found, a defect.\n\nIn the United States, the obligation is in Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC). This warranty will apply to a merchant (that is, a person who makes an occupation of selling things) who regularly deals in the type of merchandise sold.\n\nUnder US law, goods are 'merchantable' if they meet the following conditions:\n\nIf the merchandise is sold with an express \"guarantee\", the terms of the implied warranty of merchantability will fill the gaps left by that guarantee. If the terms of the express guarantee are not specified, they will be considered to be the terms of the implied warranty of merchantability. The UCC allows sellers to disclaim the implied warranty of merchantability, provided the disclaimer is made conspicuously and the disclaimer explicitly uses the term \"merchantability\" in the disclaimer. Some states, however, have implemented the UCC such that this can not be disclaimed.\n\nAn implied warranty of habitability, generally, is a warranty implied by law that by leasing or buying a residential property, the lessor or seller is promising that the property is suitable to be lived in. The warranty of habitability can be breached if there is no heat, hot water, or other essential services. Also, safety issues like no smoke alarm or other fire code issues can be considered to make a dwelling uninhabitable. Also, if the municipality in which the property is located prohibits habitation without a certificate of occupancy but has not issued such a certificate with respect to the property, the unlawfulness of that habitation renders the property uninhabitable as a matter of law. The breach of the implied warranty of habitability can be used to legally break a lease. If the factors have been created or are controllable by the landlord and he or she has not fixed them despite ample written notification, this situation can also be considered constructive eviction, which allows the tenant to break the lease, but also may allow the tenant to sue for damages in some jurisdictions.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, an implied warranty in a sales contract can be expressly disclaimed by the use of specific language, such as the words, \"as is\" or \"with all faults\". The term is used in the antiquarian and second-hand book trades to describe a volume in less than ideal condition.\n\nIn the United States, a disclaimer must be conspicuous in the contract, e.g., in a different kind of print or font that makes it stand out. On the other hand, express warranty, that is, any affirmation of fact or promise to the buyer, or description of the good, oral or written, can be negated or limited only if such disclaimers are not unreasonable. (Uniform Commercial Code, Section 2-316 (1)).\n\nSome jurisdictions, however, limit the ability of sellers or manufacturers to disclaim the implied warranty of merchantability or fitness, such as Massachusetts. (Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 106: Section 2-316A). Furthermore, the warranty of habitability is generally not able to be disclaimed.\n\nContractual language can also limit the remedies available for breach of an implied warranty - for example, capping recoverable damages or limiting the remedy to a replacement of a defective item. However, such a term can be found to be unconscionable. For example, if a defective product causes a personal injury, a contractual provision limiting recovery in such a case will be deemed \"prima facie\" unconscionable. (Uniform Commercial Code, §2-719(3).)\n\n"}
{"id": "52282571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52282571", "title": "Jacobsen Holdings Ltd v Drexel", "text": "Jacobsen Holdings Ltd v Drexel\n\nJacobsen Holdings Ltd v Drexel [1986] NZCA 75; [1986] 1 NZLR 324 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding property law.\n"}
{"id": "2622299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2622299", "title": "Judge Advocate General's Corps, United States Army", "text": "Judge Advocate General's Corps, United States Army\n\nThe Judge Advocate General's Corps of the United States Army, also known as the \"U.S. Army JAG Corps,\" is the legal arm of the United States Army, founded on July 29, 1775 by General George Washington. The Corps is composed of Army officers who are also lawyers and who provide legal services to the Army at all levels of command, and also includes legal administrator warrant officers, paralegal noncommissioned officers and junior enlisted personnel, and civilian employees. \n\nThe Judge Advocate General of the United States Army (TJAG)—the commanding general of the Army JAG Corps—is a lieutenant general. All military officers are appointed by the U.S. President subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, but the Judge Advocate General is one of the few positions in the Army explicitly provided for by law in Title 10 of the United States Code, and which requires a distinct appointment. Officers who have already been appointed to another branch of the Army are administratively dismissed and simultaneously recommissioned anew as judge advocates, rather than merely transferring branches.\n\nGeneral George Washington founded the U.S. Army JAG Corps on 29 July 1775, with the appointment of William Tudor as the Judge Advocate General. The Army Judge Advocate General's Corps is the oldest of the judge advocate communities in the U.S. armed forces – as well as the oldest law firm in the United States. The Judge Advocate General, who is referred to as TJAG (pronounced \"tea-jag\"), serves a term of four years. Lieutenant General Charles Pede, appointed July 26, 2017, is the fortieth Judge Advocate General. The appointment of then-Major General Scott C. Black, to the grade of lieutenant general on 11 December 2008 brought the billet into parity with the Army's Surgeon General and Chief of Engineers.\n\nJudge advocates occupying the position of staff judge advocate (SJA) serve on the special and personal staff of general officers in command and who are general court-martial convening authorities (in other words, who have the authority to convene a general court-martial). Staff judge advocates advise commanders on the full range of legal matters encountered in government legal practice and provide advice on courts-martial as required by the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Subordinate judge advocates prosecute courts-martial, and others, assigned to the independent United States Army Trial Defense Service and United States Army Trial Judiciary, serve as defense counsel and judges. The almost 2,000 full-time judge advocates and civilian attorneys who serve The Judge Advocate General's Corps comprise the largest group of attorneys who serve the U.S. Army. Several hundred other attorneys practice under the Chief Counsel of the United States Army Corps of Engineers and the Command Counsel of the United States Army Materiel Command.\n\nJudge advocates, legal administrators and military paralegals are deployed throughout the United States and around the world, including Japan, South Korea, Germany, Kosovo, Iraq, Afghanistan, Kuwait, and Qatar. They provide legal assistance to soldiers, adjudicate claims against the Army, advise commands on targeting decisions and other aspects of operational law, and assist the command in administering military justice by preparing non-judicial punishment actions, administrative separation actions, and trying criminal cases at court-martial.\n\nIn addition to the active component judge advocates, there are approximately 5,000 attorneys who serve in the US Army Reserve and the Army National Guard. Several hundred Reserve and National Guard attorneys were called to active duty to serve in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.\n\nThe Judge Advocate General's School began in World War II at the University of Michigan to train new judge advocates as the Judge Advocate General's Department rapidly expanded. It was disestablished for a time after the war but, after a short stay at Fort Myer in Arlington, Virginia, was reestablished at the University of Virginia in 1951.\n\nThe Judge Advocate General's Legal Center and School (TJAGLCS) is located on the North Grounds at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia, adjoining, but distinct from, the University of Virginia School of Law. The Commandant of the Judge Advocate General's School is authorized by Congress to award a Master of Laws degree. The school is the only federal institution to have American Bar Association accreditation as one of America's law schools. Judge advocates from all five armed forces of the United States and international students attend the annual Judge Advocate Officer Graduate Course in which the master's degree is awarded.\n\nThe Legal Center and School also trains the Army's new judge advocates, provides continuing legal education for judge advocates and lawyers from throughout the United States government. In addition to lawyers, TJAGLCS also trains newly selected legal administrator warrant officers, paralegal noncommissioned officers and court reporters (new judge advocate enlisted soldiers attend AIT at Fort Lee, Virginia). The school also trains those officers appointed as military judges, irresepective of service.\n\nTJAGLCS is not a member of the Association of American Law Schools (AALS), but has paid a fee to receive AALS services.\n\nPrior to entry into the JAG Corps, all Army judge advocates must have graduated from an ABA-accredited law school and be admitted to practice law by the highest court of a state or federal district. While some judge advocates have prior enlisted or commissioned experience, most are direct commissioned and have no prior military training or experience.\n\nInitial entry training into the JAG Corps is composed of two phases:\n\nAs of the summer of 2013, JAOBC Phase I, formerly conducted at Fort Lee, Virginia is no longer a requirement for JAOBC students. Students now report directly to DCC in Fort Benning, and upon completion of DCC travel to Charlottesville for JAOBC.\n\nFrom 2006 until the end of 2009, students attended the JAOBC Phase I at Fort Lee, Virginia, followed by the JAOBC in Charlottesville. Students then attended a 4-week DCC at Fort Benning, Georgia or Fort Sill, Oklahoma, followed immediately by the 6 1/2 week Basic Officer Leaders Course, or BOLC II. BOLC II was discontinued at the end of 2009.\n\nJAG Corps warrant officer legal administrators are accessed from the enlisted population through a competitive accession board of officers. That board of officers make a recommendation to The Judge Advocate General using an order of merit list of recommended selections, The Judge Advocate General has final authority on the process. To be considered by the board, they must have at least an associate degree; five years experience as a paralegal (MOS 27D); recommendations from their staff judge advocate, legal administrator and their senior/chief paralegal; and completion of several correspondence courses. Once accessed, the warrant officer candidate will complete 4–6 weeks of warrant officer candidate school at the Warrant Officer Career College located at Fort Rucker, Alabama. Their follow-on schooling will be at The Judge Advocate General's Legal Center and School, Charlottesville, VA for 6 weeks.\n\nJAG Corps enlisted paralegals must earn qualifying scores on the ASVAB, and be able to maintain a SECRET security clearance.\n\nThe branch insignia consists of a gold pen crossed above a gold sword, superimposed over a laurel wreath. The pen signifies the recording of testimony, the sword represents the military character of the JAG Corps, and the wreath indicates honor. The insignia was created in May 1890 in silver and changed to gold in 1899.\n\nThe regimental distinctive insignia (commonly but erroneously referred to as a \"crest\") contains the branch insignia on a shield of azure (dark blue), bordered argent (silver), the regimental colors. The \"1775\" on the ribbon below the shields refers to the year of the Corps' establishment.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24875820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24875820", "title": "Knight v. Jewett", "text": "Knight v. Jewett\n\nKnight v. Jewett, 3 Cal. 4th 296 (1992), was a case decided by the California Supreme Court, ruling that the comparative negligence scheme adopted in \"Li v. Yellow Cab Co. of California\" did not completely eliminate the defense of assumption of risk in an action for negligence.\n\nThe plaintiff sued for personal injuries after the defendant stepped on her hand during a touch football game.\n\nThe court recognized two categories of assumption of risk. One was primary assumption of risk in which the defendant owes no duty of care to protect the plaintiff from the risk that caused the injury. The other is secondary assumption of risk in which the defendant owes a duty of care to the plaintiff, who knowingly encounters the risk created by the defendant's breach of that duty.\n\nThe court held that secondary assumption of risk had been merged into the comparative negligence scheme adopted in \"Li v. Yellow Cab Co. of California\" but that primary assumption of risk could still serve as a defense to negligence. The court determined that in a touch football game, the only duty owed by the defendant to the plaintiff is to not be reckless and wanton. Because the plaintiff was injured in the normal course of the touch football game, the injury fell under primary assumption of risk, and she was barred from recovery.\n"}
{"id": "12842405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12842405", "title": "Labor Relations Reference Manual", "text": "Labor Relations Reference Manual\n\nLabor Relations Reference Manual (LRRM) is an American case reporter devoted exclusively to labor law published by the Bureau of National Affairs (BNA). It is published 3 times a year and includes decisions of federal and some state courts, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), state agencies, and other material of reference value. It is one part of the Labor Relations Reporter service (weekly/biweekly) and has been published since 1937.\n\nExample of legal citation:\n\n"}
{"id": "29802408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29802408", "title": "Legal profession in Puerto Rico", "text": "Legal profession in Puerto Rico\n\nThe Legal profession in Puerto Rico it is practiced in both the state level and the federal level.\n\nThus the legal professionals in Puerto Rico must study both Law of Puerto Rico and the Law of the United States.\n\nThere are presently four law schools in the island:\n\n\nAfter completing a Juris Doctor Degree lawyers have to pass the Puerto Rico General Bar Exam in order to practice law. Lawyers that graduated from ABA accredited schools may also practice in Puerto Rico, but they must also take the bar exam.\n\nUntil 2010 all lawyers had to be associated to the Puerto Rico Bar Association in order to practice law.\n\n"}
{"id": "34374864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34374864", "title": "List of US law firms by profits per partner", "text": "List of US law firms by profits per partner\n\nThis is a list of American law firms by profits per partner (PPP) in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "23039032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23039032", "title": "MBA Oath", "text": "MBA Oath\n\nMBA Oath is a voluntary student-led pledge that asks graduating MBAs to commit towards the creation of value \"responsibly and ethically\". As of January 2010, the initiative is driven by a coalition of MBA students, graduates and advisors, including nearly 2,000 student and alumni signers from over 500 MBA programs around the world. By formalizing a written oath and creating forums for individuals to personally commit to an ethical standard, the initiative hopes to accomplish three goals:\n\n\nAs a manager, my purpose is to serve the greater good by bringing people and resources together to create value that no single individual can create alone. Therefore, I will seek a course that enhances the value my enterprise can create for society over the long term. I recognize my decisions can have far-reaching consequences that affect the well-being of individuals inside and outside my enterprise, today and in the future. As I reconcile the interests of different constituencies, I will face choices that are not easy for me and others.\n\nTherefore, I promise:\nThis oath I make freely, and upon my honor.\n\nAlthough the MBA Oath has formalized a written version of an ethical code of conduct for managers, the concept behind ethics in business can be traced back to the initial formation of management education in the early 20th century. Rakesh Khurana, a professor at HBS, traces the evolution of the management degree in his book \"From Higher Aims to Hired Hands: The Social Transformation of American Business Schools and the Unfulfilled Promise of Management as a Profession\" (Princeton University Press, 2007). According to Khurana, the original intent of instituting a management degree was to educate a managerial class that would run America’s corporations in a way that would serve the broader interests of society rather than the narrowly defined interests of capital or labor.\n\nDespite the fact that initial business schools were established with an eye towards serving the public good, Khurana notes that business schools have strayed away from their initial intent. As Khurana stated in a December 2007 interview, “The university-based business school of today is a troubled institution, one that has become unmoored from its original purpose and whose contemporary state is in many ways antithetical to the goals of professional education itself.”\n\nThe impetus for the MBA Oath arose following two separate events. First, HBS’s Centennial celebrations on April 8, 2008, which marked the 100th anniversary of its founding as the world’s first two-year masters program in management education in 1908. As a part of the Centennial celebration, HBS faculty led students in case discussions regarding the “future of the MBA.” During these sessions, HBS students reflected on the first 100 years of management education and how it might change in the coming 100 years.\n\nSecond, the global financial crisis of 2008 has prompted many in the public and in the press to question whether business schools are successfully executing their missions of educating leaders for society. In particular, a number of articles placed the blame on MBAs that constructed a financial system without adequate controls. In addition to connections between HBS and the global financial crisis, the release of Philip Delves Broughton's book \"Ahead of the Curve\" challenged HBS's curriculum and argued that business schools needed to become more pragmatic and less idealistic. As Broughton (HBS MBA Class of 2006) states, \"Business needs to relearn its limits, and if the Harvard Business School let some air out of its own balloon, business would listen.”\n\nThe MBA Oath is not the first to be implemented at a business school. The Thunderbird Oath of Honor taken by most graduates of the Thunderbird School of Global Management is believed to be the first of its kind at a business school. The Oath of Honor has been in place since June 2006, when the Thunderbird Board of Trustees officially approved the oath as a part of “the application process, the curriculum and at graduation,” when students are asked to sign it.\n\nThe Thunderbird Oath of Honor reads, \n“As a Thunderbird and a global citizen, I promise:\nI will strive to act with honesty and integrity,\nI will respect the rights and dignity of all people,\nI will strive to create sustainable prosperity worldwide,\nI will oppose all forms of corruption and exploitation, and\nI will take responsibility for my actions.\nAs I hold true to these principles, it is my hope that I may enjoy an honorable reputation and peace of conscience.\nThis pledge I make freely and upon my honor.”\n\nSimilarly, all graduates of Columbia Business School must pledge to uphold a Columbia Business School Honor Code, which reads as follows: “As a lifelong member of the Columbia Business School community, I adhere to the principles of truth, integrity, and respect. I will not lie, cheat, steal, or tolerate those who do.”\n\nIn October 2009, the University of Ottawa’s Telfer School of Management created an oath of professional conduct and is asking graduates to take the oath as part of their graduation proceedings. One of the creators of the student-led effort expressed interest in pushing for a long-term goal of creating a central regulatory board that would oversee business conduct.\n\nIn a larger context, the MBA Oath represents a small step towards professionalizing the management field in ways similar to the medical and law professions. The MBA Oath is the management equivalent of the Hippocratic Oath taken by doctors. HBS Professors Rakesh Khurana and Nitin Nohria are working with the World Economic Forum and the Aspen Institute to create an MBA Oath that might be used globally. In an \"Harvard Business Review\" piece published in October 2008, Khurana and Nohria linked the connection between professionalism of a profession and the profession's ability to deliver value to society:\nTrue professions bear a code of conduct, and the meaning and consequences of those codes are taught as part of the formal education of their members. A governing body, composed of respected members of the profession, oversees members’ compliance. Through these codes, professional institutions forge an implicit social contract with other members of society: Trust us to control and exercise jurisdiction over this important occupational category. In return, the profession promises, we will ensure that our members are worthy of your trust—that they will not only be competent to perform the tasks they have been entrusted with, but they will conduct themselves with high standards and integrity. On balance we believe that a profession, with well-functioning institutions of discipline, will curb misconduct because moral behavior is an integral part of the identity of professionals: a self-image most are motivated to maintain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2077890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2077890", "title": "Management contract", "text": "Management contract\n\nA management contract is an arrangement under which operational control of an enterprise is vested by contract in a separate enterprise that performs the necessary managerial functions in return for a fee. Management contracts involve not just selling a method of doing things (as with franchising or licensing) but involve actually doing them. A management contract can involve a wide range of functions, such as technical operation and of a production facility, management of personnel, accounting, marketing services and training.\n\nIn Asia, many hotels operate under management contract arrangements, as they can more easily obtain economies of scale, a global reservation systems, brand recognition etc. It is not unusual for contracts to be signed for 30 years, and having a fee as high as 3.5% of total revenues and 6-10% of gross operating profit. \nManagement contracts have been used to a wide extent in the airline industry, and when foreign government action restricts other entry methods. Management contracts are often formed where there is a lack of local skills to run a project. It is an alternative to foreign direct investment as it does not involve as high risk and can yield higher returns for the company.\nThe first recorded management contract was initiated by Qantas and Duncan Upton in 1978.\n\nIn business management, franchising is a contractual relationship between franchiser (owner of the company) and franchisee (buyer of a brand name). The franchiser allows the franchisee to use its trademark along with certain business systems and processes in exchange for a fee.\n\nBusiness students usually get confused between the concepts of management contracts and franchising. Although they have much in common, such as they both earn by selling intangibles and are both affiliated with another company, but where a management contract acts as a framework and provides formation and structure to the company and its members, franchisee remains an independent businessman.\n\nA businessman who owns several companies, cannot distribute his attention amongst every minute detail of his companies. He needs some expert assistance with his work so he can concentrate on more broader aspects. This assistance can be provided by the contract management companies. On hiring such companies, the owner will have more time to concentrate on the expansion of the business rather than day-to-day working of the companies. The businessman can distribute some of his basic responsibilities to these management companies such as recruitment, deployment and retention.\n\nThere are several companies who cannot reach the peak of success due to lack of expertise in one field or another. Such companies should hire contract management teams. This way they would not just be hiring an experienced employee but an entire team of efficient and experienced employees in technical fields of management, accountancy, marketing etc.\n\nManagement contracts gives businessman an assurance of the continuity of his business. This can be illustrated through an example. A manager or any employee may terminate his job, leaving the business a hole in its team for the smooth functioning of the operations. A contract management company can easily change few employees without stirring the constancy of the business model.\n\nThrough management contracts, a businessman can venture international business opportunities without taking a huge risk of putting his own physical assets at stake. For example, the Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited of Britain retains general airport management skills. In the EEUU Heathrow serves the Indianapolis Airport under a 10 years management contract. It also provides retail management at the air mall in the Pittsburgh Airport.\n\nGovernment uses management contracts for the progress and development of the skill of the local managers and workers. They also accolade management contract companies to upgrade and operate public utilities.\n\nEntering into a management contracts might lead to difficulties and problems for the business owners. By entering into such agreements businesses are risking their privacy. When a businessman handover his company’s management to a third party, he may enter into confidential disputes. These contracts makes the business expose to ethical breaches, fraud and public exposer. The information of the other contracts made by the business is also available to the management contract companies. Since there responsibilities ranges from price negotiation to stock control they have full information about the vendors. Management responsibilities includes record of all employees, their personal information and payments procedures. Management contract companies have the information of the business finance also. This puts the business in a vulnerable position.\n\nHiring an outside contractor makes it difficult for the business to foresee the number of conflicts that can occur. For example, businessman hires a contract management company for the operations of the company. The management company may in turn take on the management of the supplier’s company too. This can lead to several compromises in the discounts, price negotiations and suppliers way of working. There can be even more conflicts even the same management company handles the management of several competitors at same time.\n\nInternational management can be very risky for the management companies. If a country is going through a political or social turmoil, the manager’s life is put at risk to carry on the business in such a situation.\n\nHotel management contract is a written agreement between the owner and the operator of the hotel. The base of this relationship is that the operator handles the day-to-day working of the hotel and takes up all the additional responsibilities such as maintenance, front office, housekeeping, handling food and beverages and sale. The management contract company has the power to recruit and fire the employees. The owner will authorize and pay for the capital project of the hotel but the responsibility of it is assigned to the operator.\nThe hotel management contracts can be lengthy and complicated. The negotiation of this agreement focusing the power of the owner and the rights of the operator. The initial draft is offered by the prospective operator. It usually is in favor of the operator so that operator can seek a long term contract. It doesn't want any interference from the owner but at the same time wants continuous supply of investment for the expansion and growth of the project.\n\nThe main purpose of this agreement is that the investors of some hotels lack the skill and knowledge of operating them. They are mere businessman with good financial status. They lack experience or expertise in such field. Therefore, they need the assistance of such management companies who can get the output of their investment.\n\n- Terms and conditions of the agreement\n\n- Length and durability of the agreement\n\n- Procedure for early termination by either party of the contract\n\n- Insurance policies of the hotel and its fixed assets\n\n- Management company ownership or investment required\n- Contract terms in the event of sale of the hotel\n\n- Incentive fees earned or penalties assessed related to operating performance\n\n- The exclusivity of the management company\n\n- Status of the employees\n\nConstruction management contract is between the investor and the builder. This is for use on construction projects. This contract is usually appointed by the client (investor) in the early stage. The relationship between the client and the management contractor usually covers both the work of pre-construction and construction activities.\nThe management contractor is responsible for all the administrative and operational work of the construction project. The investor is usually comes in the picture to hire the management contractor and then when the building of the project is complete. The entire work in between these two event is done by the management contractor.\n<br>\nThe Managing Contractor is responsible for sub-contract claims arising from its own inadequate performance. It the elements to be included in a project, and the design of those elements, with the management expertise of a contractor organization to assist and advise in developing the design, coordinating the interface between design and construction, undertaking the construction and planning for and remaining within a target cost and target time for delivery of the project. \nAdvantages of construction agreements are:\n\nDisadvantages of construction agreements are:\n\n"}
{"id": "35158829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35158829", "title": "Misselling", "text": "Misselling\n\nMisselling is the deliberate, reckless, or negligent sale of products or services in circumstances where the contract is either misrepresented, or the product or service is unsuitable for the customer's needs. For example, selling life insurance to someone who has no dependents is regarded as misselling.It is important to note that, at least in the UK, there is no legal definition of \"misselling\".\n\nVarious common types of misselling may occur. More recently, banks have been at the center of misselling with products such as ISAs and investments.\n\nThis may include misrepresentation of the commercial situation.\n\nThe sale of unsuitable products, such as invalid insurance, is misselling, and has led to substantial compensation orders.\n\nFinancial misselling refers to deliberate false statement made by individual, usually a financial organization representative to sell off their financial products or services usually not profound to the customer. For example, HomeServe an emergency home repair insurance company based in United Kingdom was fined for £30m for misselling to its customers by Financial Conduct Authority in February, 2014 as they failed to explain actual price and its coverage of their financial products. According to a news in The Telegraph, Britain's financial services industry has PPI (payment protection insurance, (sold with credit cards) claims worth around £13bn from 2008 to early 2014. Another on going misselling scandal relates to interest rate swaps sold to small and medium enterprises by UK banks.\n"}
{"id": "28820170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28820170", "title": "New Zealand Law Students' Association", "text": "New Zealand Law Students' Association\n\nThe New Zealand Law Students' Association / Te Roopu Tauira Ture o Aotearoa (NZLSA) is the overarching representative body for law students in New Zealand. The members of the NZLSA are the Law Students' Societies (LSSs) of each New Zealand law school, along with individual New Zealand law students (as student members). \n\nThe NZLSA also has two representatives on the New Zealand Council of Legal Education, which is an independent statutory body whose general activities concern public interest and regulatory matters and centre on the Council's responsibilities for the quality and provision of legal training within New Zealand. The Council of Legal Education oversees the LLB curriculum at all NZ universities and regulates professional studies providers. The NZLSA representatives promote student views and are \"ex officio\" officers of the NZLSA Council.\n\nThe Current Members of the NZLSA are:\n\nAt the September 2010 Council meeting of the NZLSA in Dunedin, the AUT University Law Students' Society (AUTLSS) confirmed its intention to affiliate to the NZLSA and become a Member in January 2011.\n\nEach year the NZLSA holds its annual conference at a different New Zealand law school. The right to host the conference is rotated equally amongst the law schools, with the host LSS taking responsibility for the conference.\n\nWhile the majority of conference delegates are competitors in the National Championships of the NZLSA competitions, the conference also hosts Council members, incoming Presidents of the LSSs and general delegates. The 2010 conference, hosted by SOULS and the University of Otago, was the first NZLSA conference to welcome general delegates from Australia and from the AUT Law Students' Society (AUTLAWSS).\n\nOne of the core functions of the NZLSA is to facilitate the regular legal skills competitions that are offered to students in each law school (with the LSS winners representing their university at the National Championships). The current competitions are the NZLSA Bell Gully Mooting Competition, the NZLSA Minter Ellison Rudd Watts Witness Examination Competition, the Russell McVeagh Client Interviewing Competition, and the Buddle Findlay Negotiation Competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1406651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406651", "title": "Norberto Bobbio", "text": "Norberto Bobbio\n\nNorberto Bobbio (; 18 October 1909 – 9 January 2004) was an Italian philosopher of law and political sciences and a historian of political thought. He also wrote regularly for the Turin-based daily \"La Stampa\".\nBobbio was a liberal socialist in the tradition of Piero Gobetti, Carlo Rosselli, , and Aldo Capitini. He was also strongly influenced by Hans Kelsen and Vilfredo Pareto.\n\nBobbio was born into what his \"Guardian\" obituary described as \"a relatively wealthy, middle-class Turin family\" whose sympathies Bobbio would later characterize as \"philo-fascist, regarding fascism as a necessary evil against the supposedly greater danger of Bolshevism\". In high school he met Vittorio Foa, Leone Ginzburg and Cesare Pavese, and at the university he became a friend of .\n\nIn 1942, under the Fascist regime of Benito Mussolini and during World War II, Bobbio joined the then illegal radical liberal socialist party Partito d'Azione (\"Party of Action\") and was briefly imprisoned in 1943 and 1944. He ran unsuccessfully in the 1946 Constituent Assembly of Italy elections. With the party's failure in a post-war Italy dominated by the Christian Democrats, Bobbio left electoral politics and returned his focus to academia.\n\nHe was one of the major exponents of left-right political distinctions, arguing that the Left believes in attempting to eradicate social inequality, while the Right regards most social inequality as the result of ineradicable natural inequalities, and sees attempts to enforce social equality as utopian or authoritarian.\n\nA strong advocate of the rule of law, the separation of powers, and the limitation of powers, he was a socialist, but opposed to what he perceived as the anti-democratic, authoritarian elements in most of Marxism. He was a strong partisan of the \"Historic Compromise\" between the Italian Communist Party and the Christian Democrats, and a fierce critic of Silvio Berlusconi. Bobbio died in Turin, the same city in which he was born and lived most of his life.\n\nBobbio studied philosophy of law with ; he later taught this subject in Camerino, Siena, Padua, and ultimately back in Turin as Solari's successor in 1948; from 1972 to 1984, he had a chair in the newly created faculty of political science in Turin.\n\nHe was a National Associate of the Lincean Academy and longtime director (together with Nicola Abbagnano) of the \"Rivista di Filosofia\". He became a Corresponding Associate of the British Academy in 1966; in 1979 he was nominated as Senator-for-life by Italian President Sandro Pertini. Bobbio received, among others, the Balzan Prize in 1994 (for Law and Political Science: governments and democracy) and doctorates \"honoris causa\" from the Universities of Paris (Nanterre), Madrid (Complutense), Bologna, Chambéry, Madrid (Carlos III), Sassari, Camerino, Madrid (Autónoma), and Buenos Aires.\n\nTo celebrate the centenary of Norberto Bobbio's birth, a committee was established, constituted by more than a hundred Italian and international public institutions and intellectual figures, which formulated a wide-ranging programme of activities to promote dialogue and reflection on the thought and figure of Bobbio, and on the future of democracy, culture and civilisation. Celebrations were officially opened on 10 January 2009 at the University of Turin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35624388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35624388", "title": "Offences at Sea Act 1536", "text": "Offences at Sea Act 1536\n\nThe Offences at Sea Act 1536 (28 Hen 8 c 15) was an Act of the Parliament of England.\n\nThe whole Act was repealed by section 10(2) of, and Part I of Schedule 3 to, the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27178362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27178362", "title": "Plea bargaining in the United States", "text": "Plea bargaining in the United States\n\nPlea bargaining in the United States is very common; the vast majority of criminal cases in the United States are settled by plea bargain rather than by a jury trial. They have also been increasing in frequency—they rose from 84% of federal cases in 1984 to 94% by 2001. Plea bargains are subject to the approval of the court, and different States and jurisdictions have different rules. Game theory has been used to analyze the plea bargaining decision.\n\nThe constitutionality of plea bargaining was established by \"Brady v. United States\" in 1970, although the Supreme Court warned that plea incentives which were sufficiently large or coercive as to over-rule defendants' abilities to act freely, or used in a manner giving rise to a significant number of innocent people pleading guilty, might be prohibited or lead to concerns over constitutionality. \"Santobello v. New York\" added that when plea bargains are broken, legal remedies exist.\n\nSeveral features of the American justice system tend to promote plea bargaining. The adversarial nature of the system puts judges in a passive role, in which they are completely dependent upon the parties to develop the factual record and cannot independently discover information with which to assess the strength of the case against the defendant. The parties thus can control the outcome of the case by exercising their rights or bargaining them away. The lack of compulsory prosecution also gives prosecutors greater discretion. And the inability of crime victims to mount a private prosecution and their limited ability to influence plea agreements also tends to encourage plea bargaining. Prosecutors have been described as monopsonists.\n\nPlea bargaining has existed for centuries; in older legal systems convictions were at times routinely procured by confession, and laws existed covering such criminal confessions, although by the 18th century inducements had been forbidden in English Law to prevent miscarriage of justice. Accordingly, early US plea bargain history led to courts' permitting withdrawal of pleas and rejection of plea bargains, although such arrangements continued to happen behind the scenes. A rise in the scale and scope of criminal law led to plea bargaining's gaining new acceptance in the early 20th century, as courts and prosecutors sought to address an overwhelming influx of cases:\n\n[F]ederal prosecutions under the Prohibition Act terminated in 1930 had become nearly eight times as many as the total number of all pending federal prosecutions in 1914. In a number of urban districts the enforcement agencies maintain that the only practicable way of meeting this situation with the existing machinery of the federal courts ... is for the United States Attorneys to make bargains with defendants or their counsel whereby defendants plead guilty to minor offenses and escape with light penalties.\n\nHowever, even though over 90% of convictions were based upon plea bargaining by 1930, courts remained reluctant for some time to endorse these when appealed.\n\nThe constitutionality of plea bargaining and its legal footing were established by \"Brady v. United States\" (1970). The U.S. Supreme Court warned, in the same decision, that this was conditional only and required appropriate safeguards and usage—namely that plea incentives so large or coercive as to overrule defendants' abilities to act freely, or used in a manner giving rise to a significant number of innocent people pleading guilty, might be prohibited or lead to concerns over constitutionality. Previously, the Court had held in \"United States v. Jackson\" that a law was unconstitutional that had the effect of imposing undue fear in a defendant (in that case, the fear of death) to the point it discouraged the exercise of a constitutional right (the 6th Amendment covering the right to a jury trial), and also forced the defendant to act as an unwilling witness against himself in violation of the 5th amendment. The Court stated that:\n\n[T]he plea is more than an admission of past conduct; it is the defendant's consent that judgment of conviction may be entered without a trial—a waiver of his right to trial before a jury or a judge. Waivers of constitutional rights not only must be voluntary but must be knowing, intelligent acts done with sufficient awareness of the relevant circumstances and likely consequences.\n\nThe ruling distinguished \"Brady\" from other prior cases emphasizing improper confessions, concluding: \"we cannot hold that it is unconstitutional for the State to extend a benefit to a defendant who in turn extends a substantial benefit to the State and who demonstrates by his plea that he is ready and willing to admit his crime and to enter the correctional system in a frame of mind that affords hope for success in rehabilitation over a shorter period of time than might otherwise be necessary.\" It laid down the following conditions for a plea to be valid:\n\n\n\"Santobello v. New York\" added that when plea bargains are broken, remedies exist; and it has been argued that given the prevalence of plea agreements, the most important rights of the accused may be found in the law of contracts rather than the law of trial procedure.\n\nLitigation is pending that could determine whether alleged victims of federal crime have a right to be informed by a U.S. Attorney before plea bargains are entered with a defendant.\n\nThe Federal Sentencing Guidelines are followed in federal cases and have been created to ensure a standard of uniformity in all cases decided in the federal courts. A two- or three-level offense level reduction is usually available for those who accept responsibility by not holding the prosecution to the burden of proving its case.\n\nThe Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure provide for two main types of plea agreements. An 11(c)(1)(B) agreement does not bind the court; the prosecutor's recommendation is merely advisory, and the defendant cannot withdraw his plea if the court decides to impose a sentence other than what was stipulated in the agreement. An 11(c)(1)(C) agreement does bind the court once the court accepts the agreement. When such an agreement is proposed, the court can reject it if it disagrees with the proposed sentence, in which case the defendant has an opportunity to withdraw his plea.\n\nPlea bargains are so common in the Superior Courts of California that the Judicial Council of California has published an optional seven-page form (containing all mandatory advisements required by federal and state law) to help prosecutors and defense attorneys reduce such bargains into written plea agreements.\n\nIn California, plea bargaining is sometimes used in proceedings for involuntary commitment for mental disorder. Some individuals alleged to be dangerous to self and/or dangerous to others bargain to be classified instead as merely \"gravely disabled.\"\n\nThe use of plea bargaining has inspired some controversy over issues such as its potentially coercive effect on incarcerated defendants, defendants who have been charged with more serious offenses than the facts warrant, and innocent defendants, all of whom might feel pressured to enter into a plea bargain to avoid the more serious consequences that would result from conviction.\n\nPlea bargaining is also criticized, particularly outside the United States, on the grounds that its close relationship with rewards, threats and coercion potentially endangers the correct legal outcome.\n\nIn the book \"Presumed Guilty: When Innocent People Are Wrongly Convicted\" (1991), author Martin Yant discusses the use of coercion in plea bargaining.\n\nThe theoretical work based on the prisoner's dilemma is one reason why, in many countries, plea bargaining is forbidden. Often, precisely the prisoner's dilemma scenario applies: it is in the interest of both suspects to confess and testify against the other suspect, irrespective of the innocence of the accused. Arguably, the worst case is when only one party is guilty—here, the innocent one is unlikely to confess, while the guilty one is likely to confess and testify against the innocent.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has recognized plea bargaining as both an essential and desirable part of the criminal justice system. The benefits of plea-bargaining are said to be obvious: the relief of court congestion, alleviation of the risks and uncertainties of trial, and its information gathering value.\n\nHowever, in 1975 the Attorney-General of Alaska, Avrum Gross, ordered an end to all plea-bargaining; subsequent attorneys-general continued the practice. Similar consequences were observed in New Orleans, Ventura County, California, and in Oakland County, Michigan, where plea bargaining has been terminated. Bidinotto found:\n\n...ending plea bargaining has put responsibility back into every level of our system: police did better investigating; prosecutors and lawyers began preparing their cases better; lazy judges were compelled to spend more time in court and control their calendars more efficiently. Most importantly, justice was served—and criminals began to realize that they could not continue their arrogant manipulation of a paper-tiger court system.\n\nAnother argument against plea bargaining is that it may not actually reduce the costs of administering justice. For example, if a prosecutor has only a 25% chance of winning his case and sending the defendant away to prison for 10 years, he may make a plea agreement for a one-year sentence; but if plea bargaining is unavailable, he may drop the case completely.\n\nPlea bargaining may allow prosecutors to allocate their resources more efficiently, such that they may direct more time and resources to the trial of suspects charged with serious offenses.\n\nThe shadow-of-trial argument asserts that in the aggregate, plea agreements merely reflect the outcome that would have transpired had the case gone to trial. For example, if the accused faces 10 years and has a 50% chance of losing in court, then an agreement will result in a five-year sentence, less some amount deducted for saving the government the cost of trial. Theoretically, the shadow-of-trial should work even better in criminal cases than in civil cases, because civil judgments are discretionary, while criminal judgments are often regulated by mandatory minima and sentencing guidelines, making sentences more predictable.\n\nA counter-argument is that criminal sentencing laws are \"lumpy\", in that the sentencing ranges are not as precise as the dollars-and-cents calibration that can be achieved in civil case settlements. Furthermore, because some defendants facing small amounts of prison time are jailed pending trial, they may find it in their interests to plead guilty so as to be sentenced to time served, or in any event to end up serving less time than they would serve waiting for trial. Outcomes in criminal cases are also made less predictable by the fact that, while a plaintiff in a civil case has a financial incentive to seek the largest judgment possible, a prosecutor does not necessarily have an incentive to pursue the most severe sentence possible.\n\nSome legal scholars argue that plea bargaining is unconstitutional because it takes away a person's right to a trial by jury. Justice Hugo Black once noted that, in America, the defendant \"has an absolute, unqualified right to compel the State to investigate its own case, find its own witnesses, prove its own facts, and convince the jury through its own resources. Throughout the process, the defendant has a fundamental right to remain silent, in effect challenging the State at every point to 'Prove it!'\" It is argued that plea bargaining is inconsistent with limits imposed on the powers of the police and prosecutors by the Bill of Rights. This position has been rejected by the nation's courts.\n"}
{"id": "39327843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39327843", "title": "Political opportunism", "text": "Political opportunism\n\nPolitical opportunism refers to the attempt to maintain political support, or increase political influence, in a way which disregards relevant ethical or political principles.\n\nThe political philosophy of Niccolò Machiavelli as described in \"The Prince\" is often regarded as a classic manual of opportunist scheming, and indeed a \"Machiavellian\" is nowadays defined as \"a cunning, amoral, and opportunist person, especially a politician\".\n\nPolitical opportunism is interpreted in different ways, but usually refers to one or more of the following:\n\n\nTypically, opportunist political behavior is criticized for being short-sighted or narrow-minded. That is, in the urge to make short-term political gains or preserve them, the appropriate relationship between the means being used and the overall goals being aimed for is overlooked. The result might well be, that \"short term gain\" leads to \"long term pain\". Thus, after opportunist mistakes have been made and recognized, a lot of soul searching may occur, or \"a return to principles\" may be advocated, so that the proper relationship between people's principles and their actions is restored.\n\nMost politicians are \"opportunists\" to some extent at least (they aim to utilize political opportunities creatively to their advantage, and have to try new initiatives), but the controversies surrounding the concept concern the exact relationship between \"seizing a political opportunity\" and the \"political principles\" being espoused. In other words, the question is \"how far you can go\" without compromising principles or abandoning an agreed-on code of ethics. There may be no quick and easy answer to that, because whether a transgression has occurred cannot be verified, is known only later, or is in dispute. This happens particularly in a new situation where it is uncertain how principles should be applied, or how people should respond to it.\n\n\nThe term \"political opportunism\" is often used in a pejorative sense, mainly because it connotes the \"abandonment\" of principles or compromising political goals. In that case, the original relationship between means and ends is lost. It may indeed be the case that means become ends in themselves, or that the ends become the means to achieve goals quite different from what was originally intended. Political principles can also be \"diluted\", reinterpreted or ignored, purely for the sake of promoting a contrived political unity. In consequence, a coherent rationale for being in the same organization is gradually lost; members may then drift away or the organization may decline, split or disintegrate.\n\nIn politics, it is sometimes necessary to insist on political principles, while at other times it is necessary to insist on political unity among people who \"differ\" in their beliefs or principles. Some compromises usually have to be made. If political principles were typically defined or imposed in a completely inflexible, non-negotiable way, a likely result would be sectarianism or factionalism, since few people beyond \"true believers\" could support a political practice based on such rigid positions.\n\n\nHow political principles are to be implemented is therefore usually open to some interpretation, and in part a personal responsibility. This creates the possibility that the same action is justifiable with reference to different principles, or that how a principle should be put into practice is interpreted in different ways. Just how \"principled\" an action is may therefore be open to dispute. Hence there is potential for deception in the way that principled behaviour, and deviation from it, is understood and justified. This becomes critically important in understanding opportunism insofar as it is a departure from principled behaviour.\n\nPolitical integrity typically demands an appropriate combination of principled positions and political flexibility that produces a morally consistent behavior in specific circumstances. Thus, whereas it may be necessary to seize a political opportunity when it presents itself, it should ideally be seized also with an \"appropriate motivation\", and on a \"principled\" basis—which is basically what a leader of an increasingly large group aims to accomplish: to ensure that the right things are done for the right reasons.\n\nThis ideal may be difficult to honor in practice, with the result that opportunistic mistakes are made. In his famous book \"Rules for Radicals\", community organizer Saul Alinsky for instance comments that in political organizations, quite often the right things are done for the wrong reasons, and conversely that the wrong things are done for perfectly \"correct\" reasons – presumably because of differentials in the existing understandings about \"why\" something is actually being done, and what the real \"effect\" of it will be. If power is wielded by means of special knowledge others don't have access to, such differentials are obviously likely to persist. This is likely to be the case, insofar as confidentiality and secrecy are necessary in politics – if the wrong people get hold of vital information, this could have unfavourable political effects. Thus, people may know \"part of the story\" but not the \"full story\" because, for political reasons, it cannot be told. The corollary is that people \"imagine\" reasons for political action that differ from the real reasons. This can get in the way of a truly principled approach to politics. In fact, Alinsky claimed that:\nIf \"there is no such thing as an honest politician\", this need not mean that all politicians are liars, but just that they are often not in a position to know or reveal the \"complete picture\" and thus express \"selected\" truths relevant to their actions, rather than all possible truths that could be told. In that sense, it is quite possible to be a \"principled\" politician – if that was not so, then (arguably) \"all\" politicians are opportunists. Yet if all politicians are opportunists—as many cynics believe—it becomes difficult to explain a politician's professional \"motivations\" . Namely, if their purpose is based \"only\" or \"primarily\" on self-interest—disregarding higher principles, which is the hallmark of opportunism—then politics is \"the least likely vocation\", since it requires that politicians serve a collective interest or cause bigger than themselves. They would then be better off in a line of business where they can just pursue their own interest to the full. If they are able to be politicians, they could easily do so. The question is then why they don't, if indeed only out to serve themselves.\n\nThe counter-argument to this interpretation is that politicians may \"start out\" in their career as hopeful idealists aiming to serve the community, but as soon as they become deeply entangled in political processes, they abandon their high ideals because they must reconcile many contradictory situations, and in the process begin to compromise themselves. Their political position, originally a means to a higher end, \"becomes an end in itself\": a lifestyle.\n\nThis counter-argument may have some validity, but has not proved that the suggested political evolution is inevitable in all cases. Namely, the politician owes power only to an ability to serve a greater cause, and the ability to \"represent\" people based on popular perceptions and trust. Therefore, the ability to serve exclusively according to self-interest is limited. At best, the counter-argument indicates that only the strongest characters can withstand the temptations of opportunist behaviour in politics, and maintain personal and political integrity. It may be not so much the politicians \"themselves\" who are opportunist, but rather their entourage: those who \"climb on the political bandwagon\" to profit from it for themselves. In this sense, John Keegan writes:\n\nFew actions are \"intrinsically\" opportunist; they are opportunist in a specific context, or from a specific point of view about means-ends relationships involved. This may make an objective approach to assessing the presence of opportunism quite difficult, because it may require a lot of \"inside knowledge\" about the relevant circumstances and about the motives involved.\n\nAn objective, rational evaluation of whether a course of action is opportunist or not can only be stated in terms of whether the action and its motivation really did, or did not represent relevant principles (a consistency of means and ends); or whether it was motivated by self-interest or sectional interests rather than the common interest of the party (or parties) represented. Yet insofar as allegations of opportunism reflect a moral judgment, they may also contain a subjective interpretation, emotional preference or partisan viewpoint.\n\nThere are four main sources of political opportunism:\n\n\nTo some extent, politics unavoidably involves dilemmas about whether to insist on one's own principles (and risk being isolated) or to adapt to a more widely held opinion for the sake of working together. People may be very unwilling to take risks and respond to opportunities, or they may take risks and opportunities without much regard for their overall significance. Accordingly, most political situations involve at least some \"potential\" for opportunism.\n\nThus, there may not be any generally applicable rule or technique (a \"philosopher's stone\") that could be invoked in advance to prevent opportunism. At best, one could be aware of the possibility that opportunism could become a real problem, and take steps to minimize the risk. Generally, that risk is minimized if people ensure that they can always explain clearly the relationship between chosen means and ends vis-a-vis the basic principles that guide them, i.e. to understand exactly \"why\" they are doing things and what motivates them.\n\nSometimes it is argued that opportunist errors are preferable to sectarian or factional errors. Whatever his \"sins\" may be interpreted to be, it is argued, the political opportunist prioritizes gaining or maintaining \"influence among people\", and therefore at least remains among majority opinion or \"among the masses\". In contrast, the sectarian or factionalist is likely to uphold his principles or beliefs \"regardless\" of any experience that might contradict them, and regardless of how many people support them; he attaches supreme importance to espousing his principles with an exaggerated belief in the power of ideas, no matter what others believe. This leads to political isolation and permits little experiential verification of the validity of political ideas. Sectarianism and opportunism might however also combine, to the extent that a sect believes that almost any trick is permissible to attract more members to the sect.\n\nSince the majority could be quite wrong in regard to particular issues, however, adapting to that majority opinion on those issues might, in a specific context, be an even bigger error than \"keeping one's principles pure\". This is acknowledged in democratic theory to the extent that democracy is normally thought to involve the civil right of dissent from majority opinion, and consequently also the civil right of a minority viewpoint to exist. It implies that \"the majority could be wrong\", and that the minority could be right, something that could never be corrected efficiently, if minority viewpoints were simply silenced. Because in that case, the minority might not be able to become a majority, even if experience proved the minority correct. That is why it is especially important to evaluate criticisms of \"opportunism\" in context.\n\nThe tragedy of opportunist politics is often that, by forsaking principles to make political gains, it becomes difficult or impossible to distinguish and evaluate political \"success\" and \"failure\" appropriately, and draw appropriate conclusions. Because for such an evaluation, it must be possible to specify clearly to what extent it has been possible to \"realize the agreed principles\" being advocated (how far a political movement has progressed toward realizing its aims). If it is not even clear anymore what those principles are, a failure may be hailed as a success, or a success decried as a failure, giving rise to intense disputes about their real significance. It may create disorientation and confusion that, in turn, opportunists use to further their aims.\n\nIf opportunist politics, in its urge for success, confuses what a political movement really stands for, or continually changes its story to suit the moment, any profound evaluation of its experiential record becomes impossible, and the past can be re-interpreted in any number of ways to suit the political purposes of the present or those of the future. In turn, that undermines the possibility of cumulative and collective learning from political experience in a truthful way. In that case, the errors and problems of the past are more likely to be repeated. Normally one would say that \"if a course of action doesn't work, try something else\", but if it is no longer even clear what worked and what didn't in the past, or they are mixed up with each other, current political activity may keep reproducing the problematic patterns and traditions, the essence of which the political actors are only dimly aware of.\n\nIt becomes difficult or impossible to explain why a political policy was really opted for and followed, or what can justify it, or \"why\" what was done, was done. Political appraisals begin to look arbitrary, relativistic and subjective. And that promotes a growing discrepancy between the motives political actors \"said\" they had, and their \"real\" motives—which breeds cynicism, loss of purpose, lack of accountability, and the loss of the aspiration to work for political ideals.\n\nAccording to a popular saying, \"there is no such thing as an honest politician\" (politicians will accentuate certain truths at the expense of other truths), but there is such a thing as a \"principled\" politician working within clearly defined moral boundaries, which rule out doing \"just anything\". A politician may be a \"clever talker\" who can justify anything, but if there is a big discrepancy between the talk and what is actually being done, people are usually unlikely to believe it for very long. They know that things \"do not match up\", even if they do not know exactly why, and may become indifferent to whatever is being said.\n\nContinual political opportunism ultimately reduces the scope of politics to a visionless realpolitik or a barren pragmatism that may only function to maintain the status quo, and in which people deceive themselves about their own motivations and those of others. This makes life even more difficult for politicians, in their attempt to persuade people to work together for common goals. According to journalist Adam Nagourney, \"Many Americans are more likely to assume that anyone they read or see on \ntelevision has a political bias.\" Yet what that bias is, might not be obvious anymore. In 2009, a Pew Research Center survey found that only 29% of Americans believe that the media \"gets the facts straight\" and only 18% thought that media stories \"deal fairly with all sides\".\n"}
{"id": "3043798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3043798", "title": "Proper law", "text": "Proper law\n\nThe doctrine of the proper law is applied in the choice of law stage of a lawsuit involving the conflict of laws.\n\nWhen the jurisdiction is in dispute, one or more state laws will be relevant to the decision-making process. If the laws are the same, this will cause no problems, but if there are substantive differences, the choice of which law to apply will produce a different judgment. Each state therefore produces a set of rules to guide the choice of law, and one of the most significant rules is that the law to be applied in any given situation will be the \"proper law\". This is the law which seems to have the closest and most real connection to the facts of the case, and so has the best claim to be applied. The term \"proper\" refers back to the older English sense as being \"proper to\". In other words, the law proper to the contract or the contractual term or issue involved.\n\nAll laws, to a greater or lesser extent, are reflections of the public policies of the state that enacted them. The more important the policy to the society, the greater the claim of the relevant law to be applied. Thus, if laws exist to protect citizens, the law of the place where loss or damage is sustained might have a strong claim to apply: e.g. in a traffic accident, two cars collide because of faulty maintenance and both drivers are injuredthe local laws exist to provide some degree of protection for all those who use the roads in that state, setting minimum standards for the design and maintenance of vehicles, specifying what levels of insurance should be carried, setting the minimum age and qualifications for the right to drive, etc.\n\nBut the problem with accepting the claim of any one state to have its law apply is that the result may be somewhat arbitrary. So, in the example given, if neither driver had a residence in the state, and the cars were both maintained outside the state, the laws of other states may have an equal or better claim to apply. The advantage of the \"proper law\" approach is that it builds in flexibility rather than offering a mechanical rule. Suppose that there is a contract between an Italian company and an English partnership for the sale of goods made in Greece to be shipped from Belgium on a ship flying the flag of Panama to a Swedish port. Adopting a rule such as the \"lex loci contractus\", i.e. apply the law of the place where the contract was made, might actually select a law having no other connection with the substance of the bargain made by the parties. Similarly, picking the \"lex loci solutionis\", i.e. the law of the place where the contract is to be performed, may prove to be equally irrelevant, assuming that there is only one place where performance is to occur: in the example, there is manufacture in Greece, delivery to Belgium, loading in Belgium, carriage on the high seas, and unloading in Sweden. So, if the contract does not make an express selection of the law to apply (see choice of law clause), the parties are deemed to have chosen to be bound by the law with which the contract has the closest and most real connection.\n\nThe general rule is that the \"proper law\" is the primary system of law which governs most aspects of the factual situation giving rise to the dispute. This does not imply that all the aspects of the factual circumstances are necessarily governed by the same system of law, but there is a strong presumption that this will be the case (see characterisation). So, the process of legal analysis undertaken by the courts in each case identifies all the facts that have a specific geographical connection, e.g. where the parties reside or their businesses operate, where any agreement was made, where relevant actions were performed, etc. Once all the relevant connecting factors have been identified, the law of the state that has the greatest number of connections will be the proper law. In the event of a tie, the connecting factors which relate to performance will be given a greater weight than the connecting factors affect form. In most cases, this weighting will produce a clear winner.\n"}
{"id": "1153927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1153927", "title": "R v Glad Day Bookshops Inc", "text": "R v Glad Day Bookshops Inc\n\nR v Glad Day Bookshops Inc, (2004) is a leading Ontario Superior Court of Justice decision on pornography and homosexuality. The court found that a statutory scheme requiring the approval of the Ontario Film Review Board before films can be distributed or shown in Ontario violated the guarantee of freedom of expression in section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\n\n\"Bad Attitude\" is a lesbian magazine featuring stories of mild sado-masochism; it is published in the United States. In 1993 the magazine was the first publication to fall foul of feminist-inspired pornography laws in Canada.\n\nAccording to the court's description, the magazine\n\nA story in the magazine featuring a lesbian stalking, ambushing and pleasuring another woman was found to be obscene, and the Glad Day Bookshop, which sold the investigating officer her copy, was fined C$200.\n\nThe case was symbolic for pornography advocates, who at the time were trying to demonstrate that the arguments of anti-porn feminists Catharine MacKinnon and Andrea Dworkin were antithetical to women's interests. MacKinnon and Dworkin had provided arguments for new obscenity law in Canada; in this case the law disproportionately limited the voices of gay and lesbian writers, and even led to the impounding of two titles written by Dworkin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "414162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414162", "title": "Refusal to serve in the IDF", "text": "Refusal to serve in the IDF\n\nRefusal to serve in the IDF is when citizens of Israel refuse to serve in the Israel Defense Forces or disobey orders on the grounds of pacifism, antimilitarism, religious philosophy or political disagreement with Israeli policy such as the occupation of the Palestinian territories. Conscientious objectors in Israel are known as \"sarvanim\" (in Hebrew סרבנים) which is sometimes translated as \"refuseniks\", or \"mishtamtim\" (evaders, dodgers).\n\nIn Mandatory Palestine during World War II, when many military-age Jews from the Yishuv were joining the British military, a few conscientious objectors refused, and wrote to the headquarters of War Resisters' International in London about the social pressure they faced. A Palestine branch of War Resisters' International was founded in 1946 by one such conscientious objector, David Engel, who in 1943 had been expelled from Kfar Ruppin for refusing to enlist in the British Army. He reported that his group initially had about 40 members. In 1948, the year of Israel's declaration of independence, another member of the group, Joseph Abileah, was the first conscientious objector to be put on trial before a military court for refusing to serve in the IDF. He was excused from service in the army on the grounds of ill health, which according to him was a face-saving measure. A 1954 report in Haaretz judged the size of the group to be about 100. The group's greatest failure was to not have conscientious objection recognised in law. In general, persons who made their objections known before being called up were treated more leniently than those to objected after receiving their call-up notice. Members of the group held a variety of political opinions beside their common pacifism; while some were anti-Zionist most were not.\nAlthough Israel has mandatory conscription, some Israelis do not serve in the military. Israeli Arabs are not drafted, though they may enlist, and increasing numbers serve voluntarily including at very senior level <http://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/arab-israelis-are-joining-idf-growing-numbers-officials-n724586>. Haredi Jews were exempt, so long as they did study in yeshivas (up to a maximum of 62,500 individuals), based on an arrangement worked out with David Ben-Gurion in 1948 and the Tal Law, though small numbers volunteer to serve in the IDF, especially in the Netzah Yehuda Battalion. The exemption lapsed in August 1, 2012, after being struck down by the Israeli Supreme Court in April 2012. Orthodox women can avoid service on the basis of their religion upon filing certain paperwork. After becoming officially exempt, religious women may choose to do national service work instead, although this is not compulsory. Many people who are \"unfit\" or \"unqualified\", either mentally or physically, are also exempt. Military service can often be postponed for further education—either college or university, or technical studies. Finally, a number of people refuse to serve because of pacifist views, because they deny the IDF is an army of defense, or refuse certain orders based on their disagreement with government policy.\n\nSome distinguish between refusal to serve in the military because of a pacifist worldview that rejects any manifestation of violence and encompasses a refusal to submit to compulsory military service in any form, and partial refusal to serve, such as the Courage to Refuse group who \"do their reserve duty wherever and whenever they are summoned, but refuse to serve in the occupied territories.\" The diverse range of opinions regarding the refusal to serve is the reason why there is no single umbrella organization that encompasses all groups of refusers. While most instances of refusal to serve have historically been found among left-leaning Israelis, there is a rapidly expanding willingness among right-wing soldiers to refuse orders to evict Jews from settlements in the West Bank (and formerly in the Gaza Strip).\n\nIn February 2004, Israeli Chief of Personnel Major-General Gil Regev told a Knesset committee that the number of soldiers refusing to serve in the territories had dramatically decreased in 2003 despite the increase in the number of high-profile refusals. He said that eighteen reserve soldiers and eight officers had been imprisoned for refusal in 2003 compared to 100 reservists and 29 officers in 2002, a decrease of 80%. Members of the refusers' organization \"Yesh Gvul\" claimed in reply that actually 76 people, including eleven officers, had been jailed for refusal in 2003. They also said that 79 soldiers and eighteen officers had added their names to the \"Courage to Refuse\" letter in 2003, and that the number of high-school \"refuseniks\" had risen to 500.\n\nThe first well-known instance of an individual refusing to serve in the IDF occurred in 1954 when Amnon Zichroni, a lawyer, asked to be released from military service as a pacifist. Initially, then Minister of Defense Pinhas Lavon refused to release Zichroni, though he was eventually discharged from the army reserves.\n\nSince the founding of the State of Israel in 1948, Haredi Jews have refused to serve in the Israeli military for religious reasons. Typically, they study Torah in Yeshivas, and as such are legally exempt from military service. Also refusing any Israeli military service are people affiliated with various Hasidic anti-Zionist groups (most notably Satmar), the Brisk Yeshivas, and the Neturei Karta. Most of these groups are followers of the Edah HaCharedis. Haredi Jews who avoid military service yet are only part-time yeshiva students, have received criticism from within the Orthodox community.\n\nOn April 28, 1970, a group of high school seniors about to be drafted sent a letter to Prime Minister Golda Meir expressing their reservation about the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza, the War of Attrition and the government's failure to take steps to avoid conflict. In 1987, a new group was formed, also made up of high school students intent on refusing to serve in the Occupied Territories. They gave themselves the name that the press used to dub the previous effort – 'Shministim' (Hebrew: שמיניסטים, \"twelfth graders\"). In 2001, a high-school refusers movement – also called \"Shministim\" followed in their stead. Over 3,000 Israeli high school students are currently members of Shministim. . A smaller number of them have also signed a public letter in which they state their intent to refuse any service in the army. Such a behaviour has usually resulted in repeated jail sentences of several weeks. One of the most prominent \"Shiministim\" that went to jail is Omer Goldman. Her case received special attention since her father used to be one of the highest ranking Mossad officers.\n\nOn December 18, 2008, a worldwide campaign was launched in order to request the freedom of \"Shministim\", including the delivery of more than forty thousand letters, to Israeli embassies, appealing for her cause.\n\n\"Yesh Gvul\" (Hebrew: יש גבול, can be translated as \"there is a limit\" or \"the border exists\") is a movement founded in 1982 at the outbreak of the Lebanon War by reservists who refused to serve in Lebanon. A petition, delivered to Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Defense Minister Ariel Sharon was signed by 3,000 reservists, some of whom were court martialed and served time in military prison for refusing to obey orders. Currently, it sees its main role as \"backing soldiers who refuse duties of a repressive or aggressive nature.\" It also engages in human rights activities, such as petitioning British courts to issue arrest warrants for IDF officers accused of human rights abuses and war crimes.\n\nIn the Adam Keller Court Martial in April–May 1988, Reserve Corporal Adam Keller was charged with insubordination and spreading propaganda harmful to military discipline. While on active military duty he had written on 117 tanks and other military vehicles graffiti with the text: \"Soldiers of the IDF, refuse to be occupiers and oppressors, refuse to serve in the occupied territories!\" as well as placing on electricity pylons in the military camp where he was serving—and on inside doors of the stalls in the officers' toilet—stickers with the slogans \"Down with the occupation!\". Keller was sentenced to three months imprisonment although the maximum penalty could have been six years, three for each of the charges. Keller was an active member of Yesh Gvul, but declared that he had operated on his own. For its part, the movement did not take responsibility for his act, but did provide his wife with the monetary support given to the families of refusers.\n\nIn January 2002, 51 reserve soldiers and officers signed a \"Combat Troops' Letter\" or \"Combatants' Letter\" in which they declared their refusal \"to fight beyond the 1967 borders in order to dominate, expel, starve and humiliate an entire people.\" They established the group, Ometz Le'sarev, which distinguishes itself by using conspicuously Zionist discourse: \"Refusal to serve in the Territories is Zionism.\" 633 combatants from all units of the IDF and from all sectors of the Israeli society have since signed the letter.\n\n\"The pilots' letter,\" published on September 24, 2003, was signed by 27 reserve and active duty pilots. One of the signatories was the famous pilot Brigadier General (res.) Yiftah Spector. The letter was precipitated by the targeted killing of Salah Shehade, leader of Hamas's militant wing, who was killed, along with 14 others, by a one-ton bomb dropped on his residential building. Pilots decried the large number of civilian casualties caused by Israel's targeted killings as violating the military's ethics code. In their letter, the pilots stated:\n\nThe signatories clarified that they do not reject military service in the IDF, only targeted killings of individuals, declaring: \"We ... shall continue to serve in the Israel Defense Forces and the Air Force for every mission in defense of the state of Israel.\"\n\nIn response, the Chief of Staff announced that the pilots would be grounded and will no longer be allowed to train cadets in the country's flight school. In response to their letter, hundreds of IAF pilots signed a petition denouncing the pilots' letter and their refusal to serve. Because of the harsh response, several of the pilots who originally signed the letter reneged and removed their signatures; after more than 30 signed, four later recanted. One, an El Al pilot, was threatened with dismissal and another lost his civilian job.\n\nThis letter, dated December 2003, was signed by 13 reservists of Sayeret Matkal, an elite commando unit, serving in the West Bank and Gaza Strip (nine commandos in Sayeret Matkal, 2 soldiers who had been removed from reserve duty because of prior refusals to serve there, and 2 additional combatant soldiers). Their letter, addressed to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, stated:\"We shall no longer lend a hand in the occupation of the territories. We shall no longer take part in the deprivation of basic human rights from millions of Palestinians. We shall no longer serve as a shield in the crusade of the settlements. We shall no longer corrupt our moral character in missions of oppression. We shall no longer deny our responsibility as soldiers of the Israeli DEFENSE force.\"\n\nThere are some Israeli rabbis, former generals and public figures who call on soldiers to refuse orders to dismantle Israeli settlements and remove their residents. One of those who call soldiers to refuse removal order is Uri Elitzur, a publicist and former civil servant. Eliztur claims that settlers-removal order is an illegal order, and therefore soldiers must refuse to obey it. He used the Hebrew term פקודה בלתי חוקית בעליל (literally, a clearly illegal order), which is a judicial term for an order that a soldier \"must\" refuse, coined in relation to the Kafr Qasim massacre. He used a Yossi Sarid (a left-wing politician from Meretz) quotation that an order to transfer Palestinians should be resisted by any means, as a legitimation to a total and even semi-violent resistance against transfer of settlers. On June 2004, MKs Effi Eitam and Aryeh Eldad (National Union) initiated a law bill called \"Unity of the Military Law\". The law says that only Israeli police (including Border Police) officers could engage in the removal of Jewish settlements, and soldiers could not. In 2005, as a reaction to the Israel's unilateral disengagement plan, a group called \"Mateh Chomat Magen\" (the name referring to Operation Defensive Shield) published a letter with 10,000 signatures of soldiers who signed a petition saying that they would refuse to uproot and remove Israeli settlements.\n\nIn what \"The New York Times\" called, 'the first public collective refusal by intelligence officers rather than combat troops' to serve, on September 12, 43 veteran reserve army mid-ranking officers and soldiers (33 soldiers and 10 officers, including a major and two captains, mostly in their late 20s and 30s) in the IDF's top intelligence electronic surveillance corps, Unit 8200, Israel's equivalent to the NSA, published a letter in Israel's most widely read newspaper, Yedioth Ahronoth, directed to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the IDF Chief of Staff Benny Gantz, Moshe Ya'alon and Aviv Kochavi, the head of Military Intelligence, in which they registered their refusal to participate, on the grounds of conscience, in any action designed to \"harm the Palestinian population in the West Bank.\" It took roughly a year to gather all of the signatures. and its publication was delayed by the war in Gaza until hostilities ceased in order not to be seen as attacking the army in wartime. According to the highest-ranking signatory, many other members of Unit 8200 support their stand, but did not add their names for fear of reactions and the personal price their involvement would exact. 10 of the 43 belonged to the \"circle of control\" in the unit.\n\nThe 43 decried the use of espionage to set up airstrikes that have inflicted casualties among civilians. The letter, originally written before the recent 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, was initially reported to be unrelated to it, but does mention 'the collective punishment of residents in Gaza,', that war being, according to one of the group, 'just another chapter in this cycle of violence,' and calls on the Israeli public to speak up against injustices. While the incidents they allude to have no relation to Operation Protective Edge, in which none participated, several avoided service during the 2014 war in Gaza by refusing to answer a call to do reserve duty, employing a variety of excuses. In the light of that war, the refuseniks said they would refuse to enlist if called upon to serve in the reserve, and none had served during the July–August Gaza war.\n\nIn their view, espionage that probed for information of sexual preferences or health problems that might prove useful in turning people into informants for Israel, invaded the privacy of a people under occupation, sought to exercise control over innocent Palestinian civilians, turn people into collaborators and stir divisiveness and dissension among Palestinians in the West Bank. One of the undersigned said that, while affirming their commitment to continue gathering intelligence on enemy states, they found themselves morally obliged not engage in intelligence gathering whose 'main objective is to maintain the military rule in the West Bank'. The soldiers also alleged that cases existed where IDF intelligence hindered just trials for defendants, from whom evidence in the prosecution's hands was withheld, in military courts. According to the undersigned trainees for the unit are led to believe that there is no such thing as a clearly illegal order within Unit 8200.\n\nShortly after, 200 other reservists signed a counter protests stating; \"We are veterans of Unit 8200, soldiers and reserve soldiers, past and present, who wish to express shock, disgust and total renouncement of the letter written by our fellow soldiers, who chose political refusal over our unit...We regret that our friends make cynical use of politics in their legal and moral duty to serve in the reserve unit, which in our eyes constitutes the highest honor, and seek [instead] to undermine the activities and achievements in the unit's defense of the country and its people\"\n\nDefense Minister Moshe Ya'alon criticized the letter by saying \"I know Unit 8200 from my time as head of Military Intelligence and know the massive extent which their efforts play in Israel's security. They soldiers and officers there are doing God's work, night and day. 8200 preserves Israel's existence. The attempt to harm it and its work, through calls to refuse to report for duty, based on claims that are incongruent with the unit's ways and the values of its soldiers, is a base and distasteful attempt to aid the hateful and dishonest anti-legitimization campaign being led around the world against Israel and the IDF.\" Opposition leader and head of the Labor Party Isaac Herzog, who served as a major in the 8200 unit, also hailed its work and said he was opposed to, and repulsed by, so-called \"conscientious objectors.\" He said that \"this unit and its activities are essential not just in time of war, but especially in times of peace,\" adding that he believed the way in which the members went about voicing their objections was harmful and that Israeli citizens would ultimately pay the price. Knesset Speaker Yuli Edelstein said that the signatories had \"done a great service to haters of Israel. This is a clear political statement against the IDF and published just as harsh criticisms with no basis or understanding of our situation are being thrown at us.\" Labor MK Shelly Yachimovich called them \"cowards.\"\n\nOne refusnik said his decision arose from a gradual realization that he was engaged in the kind of work that usually makes people shudder and is associated with what intelligence services do in non-democratic regimes. A captain in the group stated that a good deal of what the IDF is not about 'defense', but consists in military rule over another people in the Occupied Palestinian territories. A further witness said that Palestinians lacked 'legal protections from harassment, extortion and injury.' One testified that \"any information that might enable extortion of an individual is considered relevant information\". A captain said his outlook was changed after viewing The Lives of Others, dealing with the way the East German Stasi unit pried into the private lives of citizens. Another said a turning point occurred when he watched at the unit's headquarters as a figure in an orchard was blown up in an airstrike, and, when the smoke cleared they could see his mother running to the body of what was evidently then just a small boy. Another officer spoke of an incident at the outset of Operation Cast Lead where 89 young policeman at their graduation ceremony were killed in a bomb strike, which he complained to his superior was both 'morally unsound and problematic', time being lost killing police on parade instead of attacking rocket sites and arsenals. His remark was passed on, but no reply received. The witness also mentioned the targeted assassination of Nizar Rayan, which killed 18 members of his family, and successive attempts to kill Hamas leaders. In the operational room disappointment was expressed not at civilians being killed arbitrarily, but that they had missed their targets. The source further asserted that Israel let people requiring medical treatment die unless they were forthcoming about a relative who was on the wanted list. Another incident related concerns an operation where it was surmised that a person on their wanted list appeared to be standing by a weapons warehouse in Gaza, the time and location suggested it would be him, and he was assassinated. The victim turned out to be a kid. Another witness said that booty taken during arrest operations was stacked in a storeroom, photos, flags, weapon parts, books, Qurans, jewellery, and soldiers were told they could take whatever they liked out of this Palestinian memorabilia, the idea being to 'poison the students'.\n\nTestimonies concerning specific incidents were also listed in the letter, which, IDF spokesman Michael Lerner said, would be examined. One particular allegation, made by a captain, was that during the Al-Aqsa Intifada, in 2003, the IDF routinely bombed buildings at night as a response to terrorist attacks. On the occasion of the Neve Shaanan Street bombing by Islamic Jihad, a harsher response was decided on, involving the bombing of a Fatah building, though Fatah was known to be unconnected to the terroristic incident. In addition that Fatah target had no military function, but was a welfare centre where paychecks were doled out. Breaking precedent with the past, the operation was designed to hit the building, not when it was empty, but when people were inside to ensure that deaths would occur. Signalling that people were inside the building would give a green light for executing the bombing. In what became known as the Lieutenant A. Affair, a lieutenant of the unit refused on principle to give the green light for the attack. The media misrepresented the proposed action as a targeted killing. The officer was described within the unit as 'confused' - he was kicked out of his job, and given administrative duties and the message was that there was no such thing as an illegal order in that unit. One of the 43 said he had access to the inquiry, and that it was faked, making out that the lieutenant had been ordered to ensure the targeted building was empty, which, he stated, was the opposite of the truth. Another interviewee contrasted the huge outcry caused by the 14 collateral civilian casualties in the targeted assassination of Salah Shehade in 2002 with the insouciance that met the continual bombing of buildings, with hundreds of innocent deaths, during the summer conflict with Gaza. One refusnik's father had suffered at the hands of Argentina's military junta under its Dirty War and drew a comparison, which he said was only partial, between intelligence gathering for the army and its consequences there, and what Palestinians can face under Israeli military rule. A number of signatories expressed regret for their collaboration in providing input for airstrikes prior to the 2014 Israel-Gaza conflict that, while targeting Hamas military commanders, also killed innocent bystanders. Working in Unit 8200 is a 'coveted pipeline' to career advancement in Israeli's high-technology industries.\n\nThe gesture has been interpreted as 'an unprecedented rebuke to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's security policies.' Three signatories clarified that the letter was not just related to the recent Israel–Gaza conflict, but referred to the 'normal' circumstances of Israel's occupation. The letter, according to Elior Levy, has tapped into wider concerns regarding the ethics of state surveillance, in the wake of Edward Snowden's NSA leaks.\n\nThe IDF dismissed the letter as a 'publicity stunt by a small fringe', and a defense spokesman stated that those who work for Unit 8200 personnel were required to observe ethical standards \"without rival in the intelligence community in Israel or the world\", and that the group's going public when internal mechanisms existed to handle complaints undermined the seriousness of their assertions. All 43 are expected to be dishonorably discharged from the IDF.\n\nFormer head of 8200, Brigadier General Hanan Gefen, commented:\n\"If I was the unit's commander I would have terminated their [protesters] service, court-marshalled them, and ask for severe punishment. They used confidential information, which they privy to during their service, to promote their political agenda.\"\nAn IDF spokesperson said that the 43 will be disciplined with 'the utmost severity' for 'there is no place for refusal in the IDF.'\n\nOver 200 other reservists in the Unit denounced the letter as shameful, and that they had revealed matters taking place within a top secret unit for political reasons. Everything there is done, they aver, in conformity with international and IDF ethics.\n\nIn an op-ed, Gideon Levy praised the 'courage' and ethics of an elite group which, he claimed, when interviewed on radio and television, was dismissed by commentators in unison with descriptive language ranging from \"trippy,\" \"scandalous,\" \"negligible,\" to \"spoiled brats,\" \"politicos\" and \"lefties\".\n\nSome Israeli celebrities have evaded military service national service to further their careers. A 2007 incident that garnered international headlines focused on revelations in the press that Israeli \"Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue\" cover model Bar Refaeli had married a family friend in 2004 and divorced him soon after in order to avoid military service. Refaeli received widespread criticism, including from the Israeli Forum for the Promotion of Equal Share, to which she responded, \"I really wanted to serve in the IDF, but I don't regret not enlisting, because it paid off big time. That's just the way it is, celebrities have other needs. I hope my case has influenced the army.\" In a compromise to avoid potential boycotts of companies Refaeli works with, she agreed to visit injured IDF soldiers on visits to Israel and encourage enlistment in the army. The incident made headlines again in October 2009 when fellow Israeli model Esti Ginzburg criticized Refaeli in an interview with Israeli newspaper \"Yedioth Ahronoth\", reigniting arguments over the ease with which conscription can be dodged.\n\nAlmost all the political factions in Israel have condemned refusal to serve on ideological grounds, using terms such as \"dangerous\" and \"undemocratic\". The conscientious objectors, or refuseniks as they call themselves, found support within left-wing and the Arab parties, Hadash, Balad, Raam and parts of Meretz (Zehava Galon, Roman Bronfman and Shulamit Aloni). The Israeli Labor Party and other Meretz members have condemned the refuseniks and said that although their protests against the occupation are justified and understandable, the means they are taking to manifest it are wrong. Some major left-wing politicians expressed the fear that left-oriented refusal to serve in the territories will lend legitimacy to right-oriented refusal to remove settlements. Right wing politicians have claimed that the refuseniks' actions are helping the enemies of Israel in their anti-Israeli incitement. Some have even accused the refuseniks of treason during wartime. This viewpoint was given some support when the book \"The Seventh War\", by Avi Yisacharov and Amos Harel was published in 2004; it contains extensive interviews with Hamas leaders, at least one of whom explicitly stated that the actions of the commandos' and pilots' letters encouraged to promote and continue the use of suicide bombers.\n\nThe Israeli High Court of Justice ruled in 2002 that refusal to serve was legal on the grounds of unqualified pacifism, but \"selective refusal\" which accepted some duties and not others was illegal. The court said that allowing selective refusal would \"weaken the ties that bind us as a nation\". The court also said that the refusal to serve in the territories is selective refusal and not conscientious objection.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2000, 9.5% of applicants who filed for an exemption from service for conscientious reasons were granted it.\n\nOn January 4, 2004, a military tribunal imposed one-year prison terms on five young activists who refused to enlist in the IDF. The court accepted that the five acted in accordance with their conscience but \"ruled that they did not refuse to serve as individuals, but rather as a group, with the explicit goal of bringing about a change in Israeli policy in the territories. As such, the court ruled, their action strayed from the norms of classic conscientious objection into the realm of civil disobedience\" (\"Haaretz\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1887527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1887527", "title": "Resolution Trust Corporation", "text": "Resolution Trust Corporation\n\nThe Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) was a U.S. government-owned asset management company run by Lewis William Seidman and charged with liquidating assets, primarily real estate-related assets such as mortgage loans, that had been assets of savings and loan associations (S&Ls) declared insolvent by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) as a consequence of the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s. It also took over the insurance functions of the former Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB).\n\nBetween 1989 and mid-1995, the Resolution Trust Corporation closed or otherwise resolved 747 thrifts with total assets of $394 billion. Its funding was provided by the Resolution Funding Corporation (REFCORP) which still exists to support the debt obligations it created for these functions.\n\nThe Resolution Trust Corporation was established in 1989 by the Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA), and it was overhauled in 1991. In addition to privatizing the assets of failed S&Ls, FIRREA also included three specific goals designed to channel the resources of the RTC toward particular societal groups. The goals included maximizing opportunities for minority- and women-owned contractors, maximizing available for affordable single- and multi-family housing, and protecting local real estate and financial markets from asset dumping. Of the three goals, only the protection of local markets and concerns over dumping was given a great deal of attention. The agency was slow to implement Minority and Women-owned Business (MWOB) and Affordable Housing programs. \n\nThe Resolution Trust Corporation was a 501(c)(1) organization. \n\nIn 1995, the Resolution Trust Corporation's duties were transferred to the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). In 2006, the SAIF and its sister fund for banks—the bank insurance fund (BIF)—also administered by the FDIC, were combined to form the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) under the provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005.\n\nAfter initially emphasizing individual and bulk asset sales, the Resolution Trust Corporation pioneered the use of equity partnerships to help liquidate real estate and financial assets inherited from insolvent thrift institutions. While a number of different structures were used, all of the equity partnerships involved a private sector partner acquiring a partial interest in a pool of assets, controlling the management and sale of the assets in the pool, and making distributions to the RTC based on the RTC's retained interest.\n\nThe equity partnerships allowed the RTC to participate in any gains from the portfolios. Prior to introducing the equity partnership program, the RTC had engaged in outright individual and bulk sales of its asset portfolios. The pricing on certain types of assets often proved to be disappointing because the purchasers discounted heavily for unknowns regarding the assets, and to reflect uncertainty at the time regarding the real estate market. By retaining an interest in asset portfolios, the RTC was able to participate in the extremely strong returns being realized by portfolio investors. Additionally, the equity partnerships enabled the RTC to benefit by the management and liquidation efforts of their private sector partners, and the structure helped assure an alignment of incentives superior to that which typically exists in a principal/contractor relationship.\n\nThe following is a summary description of RTC Equity Partnership Programs:\n\nUnder the Multiple Investor Funds (MIF) program, the RTC established limited partnerships (each known as a Multiple Investor Fund) and selected private sector entities to be the general partner of each MIF.\n\nThe RTC conveyed to the MIF a portfolio of assets (principally commercial non- and sub-performing mortgage loans) which were described generically, but which had not been identified at the time the MIF general partners were selected. The assets were delivered in separate pools over time, and there were separate closings for each pool.\n\nThe selected general partner paid the RTC for its partnership interest in the assets. The price was determined by the Derived Investment Value (DIV) of the assets (an estimate of the liquidation value of assets based on a valuation formula developed by the RTC), multiplied by a percentage of DIV based on the bid of the selected general partner. The general partner paid its equity share relating to each pool at the closing on the pool. The RTC retained a limited partnership interest in the MIF.\n\nThe MIF asset portfolio was leveraged by RTC-provided seller financing. The RTC offered up to 75% seller financing, and one element of the bid was the amount of seller financing required by the bidder. Because of the leverage, the amount required to be paid by the MIF general partner on account of its interest was less than it would have been if the MIF had been an all-equity transaction.\n\nThe MIF general partner, on behalf of the MIF, engaged an asset manager (one or more entities of the MIF general partner team) to manage and liquidate the asset pool. The asset manager was paid a servicing fee out of MIF funds, and used MIF funds to improve, manage and market the assets. The asset manager was responsible for day-to-day management of the MIF, but the general partner controlled major budgetary and liquidation decisions. The RTC had no management role.\n\nAfter repayment of the RTC seller financing debt, net cash flow was divided between the RTC (as limited partner) and general partner in accordance with their respective percentage interests (the general partner had at least a 50% interest).\n\nEach of the MIF general partners was a joint venture among an asset manager with experience in managing and liquidating distressed real estate assets, and a capital source. There were two MIF transactions involving more than 1,000 loans having an aggregate book value of slightly over $2 billion and an aggregate DIV of $982 million.\n\nThe N-series and S-series mortgage trust programs were successor programs to the MIF program. The N-series and S-series structure was different from that of the MIF in that the subject assets were pre-identified by the RTC (under the MIF, the specific assets had not been identified in advance of the bidding) and the interests in the asset portfolios were competitively bid on by pre-qualified investors with the highest bid winning (the RTC’s process for selecting MIF general partners, in contrast, took into account non-price factors).\n\nThe \"N\" of the N series stood for \"nonperforming\". For the N series, the RTC would convey to a Delaware business trust a pre-identified portfolio of assets, mostly commercial non- and sub-performing mortgage loans. Pre-qualified investor teams competitively bid for a 49% interest in the trust, and the equity for this interest was payable to the RTC by the winning bidder when it closed on the acquisition of its interest.\n\nThe trust, at its creation, issued a class A certificate to the private sector investor evidencing its ownership interest in the Trust, and a class B certificate to the RTC evidencing its ownership interest. The class A certificate holder exercised those management powers typically associated with a general partner (that is, it controlled the operation of the trust), and the RTC, as the class B certificate holder, had a passive interest typical of a limited partner.\n\nThe class A certificate holder, on behalf of the trust, engaged an asset manager to manage and liquidate the asset pool. The asset manager was paid a servicing fee out of trust funds. Typically, the asset manager was a joint venture partner in the class A certificate holder. The asset manager used trust funds to improve, maintain and liquidate trust assets, and had day-to-day management control. The class A certificate holder exercised control over major budgetary and disposition decisions.\n\nThe trust, through a pre-determined placement agent designated by the RTC, leveraged its asset portfolio by issuing commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBSs), the proceeds of which went to the RTC. Because of the leverage, the amount required to be paid by the class A certificate holder on account of its interest was less than it would have been if the N-Trust had been an all-equity transaction.\n\nNet cash flow was first used to repay the CMBS debt, after which it was divided between the RTC and class A certificate holder at their respective equity percentages (51% RTC, 49% class A).\n\nThere were a total of six N-series partnership transactions in which the RTC placed 2,600 loans with an approximate book value of $2.8 billion and a DIV of $1.3 billion. A total of $975 million of CMBS bonds were issued for the six N-series transaction, representing 60% of the value of N-series trust assets as determined by the competitive bid process (the value of the assets implied by the investor bids was substantially greater than the DIV values calculated by the RTC). While the original bond maturity was 10 years from the transaction, the average bond was retired in 21 months from the transaction date, and all bonds were retired within 28 months.\n\nThe S-series program was similar to the N-series program, and contained the same profile of assets as the N-series transactions. The S series was designed to appeal to investors who might lack the resources necessary to undertake an N-series transaction, and differed from the N-series program in the following respects.\n\nThe S-series portfolios were smaller. The \"S\" of S series stands for \"small\"; the average S-series portfolio had a book value of $113 million and a DIV of $52 million, whereas the N-series average portfolio had a book value of $464 million and a DIV of $220 million. As a consequence, it required an equity investment of $4 to $9 million for investor to undertake an S-series transaction, versus $30 to $70 million for an N-series transaction.\n\nThe S-series portfolio was not leveraged through the issuance of CMBS, although it was leveraged through a 60% RTC purchase money financing. In the N-series program where CMBS were issued, the asset managers had to be qualified by debt rating agencies (e.g., Standard & Poor's) as a condition to the agencies' giving a rating to the CMBS. This was not necessary in the S-series program\n\nAssets in the S-series portfolios were grouped geographically, so as to reduce the investors' due diligence costs.\n\nThere were nine S-series transactions, into which the RTC contributed more than 1,100 loans having a total book value of approximately $1 billion and a DIV of $466 million. The RTC purchase money loans, aggregating $284 million for the nine S-transactions, were all paid off within 22 months of the respective transaction closing dates (on average, the purchase money loans were retired in 16 months).\n\nThe RTC Land Fund program was created to enable the RTC to share in the profit from longer term recovery and development of land. Under the Land Fund program, the RTC selected private sector entities to be the general partners of 30-year term limited partnerships known as Land Funds. The Land Fund program was different from the MIF and N/S-Series programs in that the Land Fund general partner had the authority to engage in long-term development, whereas the MIFs and N/S-Series Trusts were focused on asset liquidation.\n\nThe RTC conveyed to the Land Fund certain pre-identified land parcels, and non/sub-performing mortgage loans secured by land parcels. The selected general partner paid the RTC for its general partnership interest in the Land Fund. The winning bid for each Land Fund pool would determine the implied value of the pool, and the winning bidder, at closing, would pay to the RTC 25% of the implied value. The land fund investors were given the option of contributing 25%, 30%, 35%, or 40% of the equity for commensurate interest, but all chose to contribute 25% of the equity.\n\nThe Land Fund general partner could, at its discretion, transfer assets in Land Fund pools to special-purpose entities, and those entities could then borrow money collateralized by the asset to fund development. Furthermore, a third-party developer or financing source could acquire an equity interest in the special purpose entity in exchange for services or funding. The general partner was authorized to develop the land parcels on a long term basis, and had comprehensive authority concerning the operation of the Land Fund. Costs to improve, manage and liquidate the assets were borne by the Land Fund.\n\nNet cash flow from the Land Fund was distributable in proportion to the respective contributions of the general partner (25%) and RTC (75%). If and when the Land Fund partnership distributed to the RTC an amount equal to the RTC’s capital investment (i.e., 75% of the implied value of the Land Fund pool), from and after such point, net cash flow would be divided on a 50/50 basis.\n\nLand Fund general partners were joint ventures between asset managers, developers and capital sources. There were three land fund programs, giving rise to 12 land fund partnerships for different land asset portfolios. These funds received 815 assets with a total book value of $2 billion and DIV of $614 million.\n\nUnder the judgments, deficiencies, and chargeoffs Program (JDC), the RTC established limited partnerships and selected private sector entities to be the general partner of each JDC Partnership. The JDC program was different from the MIF, N/S Series and Land Fund programs in that the general partner paid only a nominal price for the assets and was selected on a beauty-contest basis, and the general partner (rather than the partnership itself) had to absorb most operating costs.\n\nThe RTC would convey to the limited partnership certain judgments, deficiency actions, and charged-off indebtedness (JDCs) and other claims which typically were unsecured and considered of questionable value. The assets were not identified in advance, and were transferred to the JDC partnership in a series of conveyances over time.\n\nThe general partner was selected purely on the basis of perceived competence. It made payments to the RTC in the amount of one basis point (0.01%) of the book value of the assets conveyed. The general partner exercised comprehensive control in managing and resolving the assets. Proceeds typically were split 50/50 with the RTC. Operating costs (except under special circumstances) were absorbed by the general partner, not the JDC partnership.\n\nJDC general partners consisted of asset managers and collection firms. The JDC program was adopted by the FDIC and is still in existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13318251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13318251", "title": "Screenrights: The Audio Visual Copyright Society", "text": "Screenrights: The Audio Visual Copyright Society\n\nScreenrights is a non-profit copyright collecting society providing simple access to film and television, while ensuring payment to copyright owners for the use of their work. Since 1990, it has been appointed by the Australian Government to administer the provisions in the Australian Copyright Act 1968 that allow schools, TAFE colleges and universities to copy from television and radio provided they pay a royalty. Screenrights monitors copying, and distributes the royalties it collects to the copyright owners in the programs that are copied.\n\nScreenrights also administers the provisions in the Copyright Act that allow for the retransmission of free to air broadcasts by other services, such as pay television, and the provisions that allow for copying from television and radio by Australian government departments. In addition, Screenrights International can collect royalties being held for rightsholders in film and TV in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Latin America.\n\nScreenrights also has an online resource service that helps educators use television in teaching, called EnhanceTV.\n\nScreenrights offers a free monthly newsletter \"Off the air\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2141542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141542", "title": "Selective disclosure", "text": "Selective disclosure\n\nSelective disclosure is a situation when a publicly traded company discloses material information to a single person, or a limited group of people or investors, as opposed to disclosing the information to all investors at the same time.\n\nMaterial information is roughly defined as information that would cause a reasonable investor to make a buy or sell decision.\n\nA problem with selective disclosure that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) sought to eliminate with Regulation Fair Disclosure(a.k.a. Regulation FD or Reg FD), is that it creates an uneven playing field for investors, allowing some investors to profit from material market moving information before others.\n\nAn example of a selective disclosure could go as follows: A company insider tells a small group of Wall Street analysts that the company is going to beat current analyst consensus estimates for earnings per share. If this is the first time the company disclosed such guidance, and the guidance wasn't simultaneously disseminated to all investors via a press release or publicized webcast, then the disclosure would constitute selective disclosure.\n"}
{"id": "47196928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47196928", "title": "Stuart Banner", "text": "Stuart Banner\n\nStuart Alan Banner (born November 20, 1963) is an American legal historian and the Norman Abrams Professor of Law at the UCLA School of Law. Banner also directs UCLA's Supreme Court Clinic, which offers students the opportunity to work on real cases before the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nBanner received his B.A. from Yale University in 1985 and his J.D. from Stanford Law School in 1988, where he was an articles editor of the \"Stanford Law Review\". \n\nFollowing his graduation from law school, Banner clerked for Judge Alex Kozinski of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and for Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nBefore joining the UCLA law faculty in 2001, Banner worked as an associate at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York City, practiced law at the New York Office of the Appellate Defender, and taught at the Washington University School of Law.\n\nAt UCLA, Banner teaches courses on property law, American legal thought, and the Supreme Court.\n\nBanner is the recipient of fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Fulbright Scholar Program, the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.\n\nA 2014 study found that Banner is the seventh most-cited legal scholar in the field of legal history.\n\nBanner's scholarship has been published in numerous law journals, including the \"Stanford Law Review\", \"Harvard Law Review\", \"Virginia Law Review\", and \"The Journal of Legal Studies\".\n\nBanner has authored 8 books, including:\n"}
{"id": "11056133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11056133", "title": "Sweat of the brow", "text": "Sweat of the brow\n\nSweat of the brow is an intellectual property law doctrine, chiefly related to copyright law. According to this doctrine, an author gains rights through simple diligence during the creation of a work, such as a database, or a directory. Substantial creativity or \"originality\" is not required.\n\nUnder a \"sweat of the brow\" doctrine, the creator of a copyrighted work, even if it is completely unoriginal, is entitled to have his effort and expense protected, and no one else may use such a work without permission, but must instead recreate the work by independent research or effort. The classic example is a telephone directory. In a \"sweat of the brow\" jurisdiction, such a directory may not be copied, but instead a competitor must independently collect the information to issue a competing directory. The same rule generally applies to databases and lists of facts.\n\nCivil law jurisdictions have traditionally used the similar but not identical concept of \"droit d'auteur\". European Union law tends to harmonize the protection of intellectual property throughout member states and the doctrine thus gains more influence. In the Databases Directive 96/9/ECthe member states of the EU are obliged to confer protection known as the database right on non-original databases, that is on those that embody no creativity, but are a consequence of substantial investment (financial, labour etc.).\n\nIn a traditional English idiom, the \"sweat of one's brow\" refers to the effort expended in labor, and the value created thereby. The phrase is famously used in English translations of . The law doctrine takes its name from this idiom.\n\nThe United States rejected this doctrine in the 1991 United States Supreme Court case \"Feist Publications v. Rural Telephone Service\"; until then it had been upheld in a number of US copyright cases.\n\nUnder the \"Feist\" ruling in the US, mere collections of facts are considered unoriginal and thus not protected by copyright, no matter how much work went into collating them. The arrangement and presentation of a collection may be original, but not if it is \"simple and obvious\" such as a list in alphabetical or chronological order.\n\nUnder the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, for copyright to subsist in a work, that work must be original. However, courts have not adopted a literal reading of this requirement. For over a hundred years, English courts have held that a significant expenditure of labour is sufficient. The consequence of this is that if A makes a work, in which copyright subsists, and B subsequently adds his skill, judgement and labour, altering the form of A's work, B will potentially have a copyright in the work he produces. This suggests that copyright is not about protecting ideas, because one can acquire a copyright by expending skill, labour, and judgement, but no creativity or inventiveness.\n\nHowever, in March 2012, a case was taken to the European Court of Justice, in which Football DataCo claimed copyright infringement over web sites which were reproducing match schedules from several major football leagues. Football DataCo asserted that these schedules were copyrighted works due to the skill and labour involved in their preparation, and that the company was given exclusive rights to license their reproduction. Based on its interpretation of British law, the court rejected the notion that labour and skill was enough to grant protection to a work, since \"unless the procedures for creating the lists concerned as described by the national court are supplemented by elements reflecting originality in the selection or arrangement of the data contained in those lists, they do not suffice for those lists to be protected by the copyright laid down in the directive.\"\n\nIn a copyright notice on 'digital images, photographs and the internet' last updated in November 2015, the UK Intellectual Property Office confirmed that digital reproductions of public domain images are not protected by copyright, arguing that \"according to the Court of Justice of the European Union which has effect in UK law, copyright can only subsist in subject matter that is original in the sense that it is the author’s own ‘intellectual creation’. Given this criterion, it seems unlikely that what is merely a retouched, digitised image of an older work can be considered as ‘original’.\"\n\nIn \"Walter v Lane\" (1900) (Pre-CDPA), reporters took shorthand notes of a speech, punctuated them, etc. and published them in the \"Times\" newspaper. The court held that the reporters were authors of the published speech, and, as such, owned a copyright in the published speeches, because of the considerable skill, labour, and judgement they exercised.\n\nIn \"University of London Press Ltd v University Tutorial Press Ltd\", the question arose as to whether certain mathematics exam papers were original literary works. The exam papers just consisted of conventional maths problems in a conventional manner. The court held that originality does not mean that the work must be an expression of individual thought. The simple fact that the authors drew on a body of knowledge common to mathematicians did not compromise originality. The requirement of originality, it was held, does not require that expression be in an original or novel form. It does, however, require that the work not be copied from another work. It must originate from the author.\nAs such, even though these were the same old maths problems every student is familiar with, and even though there was no creative input, the skill, labour, and judgement of the authors was sufficient to make the papers original literary works.\n\nIn \"Cummins v Bond\", a psychic in a trance claimed to have written down what spirits told her, through a process of automatic writing. In court, she accepted that she was not the creative author of the writing. The creative input, had, presumably, come from the spirits. Nonetheless, the court held that she had exercised sufficient labour and skill in translating and transcribing what the spirits told her, so she had a copyright in the resulting literary work.\n\nIn certain cases, German law grants ancillary copyrights (\"Leistungsschutzrecht\") due to the effort involved in the production or exploitation of creative works. In 2016, a regional court in Berlin ruled that digitized versions of public domain paintings were entitled to new copyrights due to the effort and expertise necessary to create the reproductions. The case is being appealed.\n\nIsraeli law requires that a work exhibit some degree of originality in order to be copyrightable. In other words, Israeli law does not subscribe to the \"sweat of the brow\" doctrine. However, the amount of originality required is minimal, and the transliteration or interpretation of an artifact is covered by copyright.\n\nUruguayan law requires that the work should have some degree of originality to be protected by copyright. Uruguayan law, therefore, does not subscribe to the sweat of the brow doctrine.\n\n"}
{"id": "43657229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43657229", "title": "Taxation in Latvia", "text": "Taxation in Latvia\n\nIn Latvia, taxes are levied by both national and local governments. Tax revenue stood at 28.1% of the GDP in 2013. The most important revenue sources include income tax, social security, corporate tax and value added tax, which are all applied on the national level. Income taxes are levied at a flat rate of 23% on all income. A long range of tax allowances is given including a standard allowance of €900 per year and €1980 per year for every dependent.\n\nSocial security contributions are levied on all employment income and are mandatory for most workers. The employee pays 11% of the wage, while the employer contributes 24.09%. There was no maximum ceiling for social security in year 2013 because of the economic crisis, but the ceiling was reinstated in 2014 at €46,600 of yearly income. The standard rate for VAT is 21%; for medications and heating expenses, a reduced rate of 12% applies. Some goods and services are also exempt from VAT, this include education, medical care, financial transactions and rent.\n\nExcise taxes apply on different luxury goods and things harmful to the environment. Wine is subject to excise duty of €64.03 per 100 litres. Coffee is subject to excise at €142.29 per 100 kg.\n\nTaxation in Latvia have gone through major reforms since leaving the soviet union in 1991 and making a transition from a central run economy to a market economy. The fiscal system in Latvia after leaving soviet in Latvia was similar other former communist states with high public spending (45-50% GDP) and a tax system that relied in tax base definitions characteristic of central planning. Since then a long range of reforms have been made, including introducing a VAT in 1992 and Social Security Contributions.\n"}
{"id": "15148477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15148477", "title": "Telecommunications Service Priority", "text": "Telecommunications Service Priority\n\nTelecommunications Service Priority (TSP) is a United States program that authorizes national security and emergency preparedness organizations to receive priority treatment for vital voice and data circuits or other telecommunications services. As a result of hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, and other natural or man-made disasters, telecommunications service vendors frequently experience a surge in requests for new services and requirements to restore existing services. The TSP Program provides service vendors a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) mandate to prioritize requests by identifying those services critical to national security and emergency preparedness. A TSP assignment ensures that it will receive priority attention by the service vendor before any non-TSP service.\n\nFour broad categories serve as guidelines for determining whether a circuit or telecommunications service is eligible for priority provisioning or restoration. TSP service user organizations may be in the Federal, State, local, or tribal government, critical infrastructure sectors in industry, non-profit organizations that perform critical National Security and Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) functions, or foreign governments. Typical TSP service users are responsible for the command and control functions critical to management of and response to NS/EP situations, particularly during the first 24 to 72 hours following an event\n\nFederal, state, tribal, and local police departments, fire departments, EMS units, and similar entities qualify for Level 3 under communication services necessary for the public health, safety, and maintenance of law and order. The higher priority levels, Levels 1 and 2, include National Security leadership and certain military communications lines. Very few circuits receive a TSP priority Level 1 or Level 2 assignment. If an organization does not enroll its circuits in the TSP program, its telecommunications service provider cannot restore those lines until it has restored all TSP lines in priority levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.\n\nEnrollment and monthly fees for the TSP program are generally set at the state level by public utility or public service commissions. Typically, one-time enrollment fees are approximately $100, and monthly fees per line average $3. TSP Authorization Codes are only valid for three years. The FCC requires that all users revalidate their requirement for TSP every three years before expiration of the user's TSP Authorization Code(s).\n"}
{"id": "37973467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37973467", "title": "Tirath Das Dogra", "text": "Tirath Das Dogra\n\nTirath Das Dogra (, IAST: \"Tīrath Dās Ḍōgarā\", born 18 July 1947) is an Indian forensic pathologist and former Pro-Chancellor and vice-chancellor of SGT University, Budhera Gurgaon Haryana 2013–2017. He is a former director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi and an authority on forensic medicine. Dogra been member of the Medical Council of India from December 2013 till its dissolution in September 2018. Dogra have been President of National Medicos Organisation Delhi State from 2012 to 2017. Dogra was member of TEQ-Equivalence Committee and Administration and Grievance committee of Medical Council of India. He is member of Advisory committee on MOOC's program of University Grants Commission of India New Delhi. Presently he is emeritus professor of forensic medicine and forensic sciences, professor of Andragogy and educational philosophy and Director Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) at SGT University Gurgaon.\n\nDogra held a number of positions during his tenure at AIIMS, including dean (exam), deputy director (administration), chair of the management board of AIIMS Hospitals, hostel superintendent and professor. He joined AIIMS as a resident in 1971, becoming a faculty member in 1977. Following the retirement of Jagdish Chandra on 30 June 1987, Dogra headed the department of forensic medicine and toxicology at AIIMS until his retirement on 31 July 2012.\n\nHe was born to Prem Nath Dogra and Gayano Devi Dogra at Bhoi Brahmana, near Zafarwal, Punjab (British India), 40 kilometres from Jammu on the Basantar River (the present border with Pakistan). During the partition of India in 1947 his father moved to Sikar and to Bikaner in 1959; he settled there permanently in 1961. Dogra completed Badridas Vidavatji ka Middle School Sikar and Matric in 1963 and attended M M High School Bikaner from 1959 to 1963. After a year at Dungar College Bikaner, he received a degree in medicine from Sardar Patel Medical College, Bikaner.\n\nDogra received the first MD degree in forensic medicine from AIIMS in 1976. His areas of interest have been DNA profiling, population genetics, residual, environmental and pesticide toxicity, bioethics, pharmacovigilance, continuing medical education, suicide prevention and notes, forensic psychiatry (psychological profiling) crime-scene reconstruction. and Forensic animation He has been involved in medico-legal investigations of high-profile cases throughout India.\n\nDogra has presented his medico-legal opinion in cases concerning to three prime ministers: Indira Gandhi, Charan Singh and Rajiv Gandhi. He deposed as a medical witness in the Mahesh Chandra Trial Court for Indira Gandhi's assassination for the prosecution.\n\nDogra's forensic investigations include:\nHis medico-legal cases include:\n\nThe Society of Toxicology (India) gave Dogra a Distinguished Scientist Lifetime Achievement Award in Toxicology, and he received a Distinguished Service Award from the Geriatric Society of India. He delivered the Professor G. Mehdi Oration at the 27th annual national conference of the Indian Academy of Forensic Medicine at North Bengal Medical College in Siliguri, West Bengal on 17 February 2006. Dogra delivered the Professor Jagdish Chandra Oration Award at the \n12th national conference of the Indian Congress of Forensic Medicine \nand Toxicology on 27 September 2013 at the Government Medical College in Haldwani, Uttarakhand. Indian Congress of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology gave \"Life time achievement award\" to Prof Dogra on 13 September 2014.\n\nDuring Dogra's tenure as director AIIMS acquired of land in the Jajhar District of Haryana, and the recommendations of the Moily Committee were implemented. One hundred sixty faculty and 1200 other staff positions were created, a new academic building (came as Convergence Block) was planned and the CDER and JPNA Apex Trauma Center were made fully functional. An agreement with Metro was signed for a tunnel connecting AIIMS and the trauma centre. A surgical centre, maternity centre, dormitories, outpatient department and a urology centre were planned. A new developmental plan integrated with the earlier prepared Master plan was prepared and architectural process was started for its implementation. The long pending clearance from Ministry of civil aviation and urban development for construction of multistory buildings was obtained to facilitate future development of AIIMS in regard to hospital, academics, research, residential and hostels. Manmohan Singh underwent coronary-bypass Surgery at AIIMS, and Pratibha Patil underwent cataract surgery on both eyes. Dogra managed AIIMS during the most troubled times in its history; he is active in organ donation, retrieval and tracking, framing and revising rules and implementing training programs at the AIIMS Organ Retrieval Banking Organization. After succeeding Jagdish Chandra, Dogra developed DNA-profiling and toxicology laboratories. He expanded the department to ten faculty members, two scientists, twelve junior and twelve senior residents.\n\nDogra started DNA facility at department of forensic medicine AIIMS, in Feb 1991 with recruiting of Dr Anupuma Raina as PhD student and Dr G. Bomjen as MD student both taking DNA profiling related thesis topics, Dogra as Chief Guide and Dr S Hasnain of NII New Delhi as co-guide. First criminal case solved by DNA from Delhi was in 1992. The integrity and hard work of its in-charge Dr Anupuma raina gave this laboratory reliability and popularity with investigating agencies.\n\nDr Dogra developed Medical Toxicological laboratory in the department of forensic medicine and toxicology in 1987. It was the first laboratory in a medical college where it was aimed to carry out analysis of samples for clinical and forensic purposes. The analytical toxicologist late H C Srivastava worked hard to get a reputation that the honourable courts ordered the tests to be conducted in this laboratory. The laboratory was well equipped with TLC, HPTLC, HPLC, GLC, Voltammetry, Atomic Absorption spectrometry etc. It worked in close collaboration with CFSL, CBI Delhi, FSL Rohini Delhi and JPN NICFS Rohini Delhi,\n\nDogra was engaged in crime scene reconstruction in a variety of cases throughout the length and breadth of the country. He reconstructed the cases pertaining to fall from a height, railway accident, traffic accidents, firearm injuries, bomb blast, asphyxial deaths etc. He examined about 2000 scene of crimes in different states of India.\n\nHe evolved a simple technique to identify old suspected bullet hit marks by lifting the impression using a moldable putty which neither damaged nor made it unfit for further examination of suspected firearm bullet hit marks. More than 2-year-old marks were detected by Professor Dogra at many scenes of occurrences; that is why people started calling it as a Dogra's test.\n\nDuring the last decade of his career, he started using animation to explain his finding or observations. He tried it in Batla house encounter, Heren Pandya case, he also attempted in Ishrat Jehan case but he could not make it in 3D animation as desired.\n\nDogra in 1990 while forensic investigations of the death of Jathedar Jagdev Singh Khudian MP of Akali Dal (Mann), first time in collaboration with Psychiatrist and Clinical Psychologist analysed the Psychological status of deceased by getting filled a proforma developed for this purpose from his friends and family. Subsequently, he applied it in many cases, including the psychological profiling of the accused persons of 2006 Noida serial murders.\n\nDogra carried out numbers of exhumations in various states of India. He exhumed mass graves in Gujrat following 2002 communal riots and recovered large numbers of skeletal remains, the anthropometric & anatomical examination and DNA profiling established Identity of many of missing individuals. He always encouraged a collaborative approach in such situation. Dogra used Anthropometric and anatomical examination in variety of cases from different part of country including Bhanwari Devi (2011 case) & 2006 Noida serial murders.\n\nDogra edited \"Lyon’s Medical Jurisprudence for India\", co-authored \"Practical Aspects of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology\" and has published more than 200 papers in national and international journals. He has guided more than 50 MD and PhD thesis projects, and supervised or co-supervised research funded by BPR&D, DST, ICAR and WHO. Dogra has been an editorial member or peer reviewer of a number of national and international journals, and has written for the popular press. He is the founder of the \"Journal of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology\" and \"Indian Internet Journal of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology\". Dogra founded the Indian Congress of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, He organised numerous conferences, workshops and seminars, and has delivered guest lectures, inaugural and valedictory talks on a variety of topics.\n\nDogra has been a member of a number of committees constituted by the Government of India, State Governments and AIIMS: the Advisory Committee on Prison Reform (BPR&D); the member (Medical Toxicology)Central Insecticide Board (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare); the member (Medical Toxicology) Registration Committee for Insecticides (Ministry of Agriculture); RAP and SAC (Research Analysis Panel and Scientific Advisory Committee) of the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD) and the Subcommittee on Medicolegal Services in Delhi. He has consulted with the Central Bureau of Investigation, courts, state Crime Branch CIDs, the National Commission for Human Rights, the National Commission for Women and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights.\nDogra has been a visiting faculty member at the LNJP National Institute of Criminalistics and Forensic Sciences, the Police Training School, the Judicial Academy (Delhi), the Karkardooma Court (Shahdara), the Judicial Academy (Nanital, Uttrakhand), the Sardar Patel Academy of Police, the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Mussoorie, U.P., the Academy of Administration and Management (Nanital), CBI Academy (Ghaziabad), the National Academy of Customs Excise and Narcotics (NACEN), HIPA, Haryana Institute of Public Administration and the Institute of Road Traffic Education (IRTE) in Faridabad.\n\nDogra established and developed the department of forensic medicine at B.P. Koirala Institute of Health Sciences in Dharan, Nepal, a joint venture of the governments of India and Nepal. He has interacted with internationally known forensics experts such as Keith Simpson, Keith Mant, T. K. Marshal, D. J. Ghee, Alec Jeffreys, Michael S Pollanen, Stephen M. Cordner, Henry Lee (forensic scientist) and Derrick J. Pounder.\n\nProfessor Dogra led the first forensic team along with Arun Kumar Joint director, than Supercop of CBI, team consisted of Rajender Singh director CFSL, other relevant experts from CFSL, CBI, Delhi and from AIIMS including 25 sleauths of CBI. Team started work on 1 June 2008 with examination of scene of crime. Team functioned till the Arun Kumar was called back to his cadre the UP Police from CBI.\n\nAmzad Ali Rana of Pakistan, Javed Gulam Sheikh born Pranesh Pillai, Zeeshan Johar and Ishrat Jahan Raza were killed in Police encounter on 15 June 2004. The Gujrat high court constituted SIT (special investigating team) to investigate the encounter. The chairman of SIT constituted a team of experts with Professor T D Dogra as its chairman, experts from CFSL (central forensic laboratory New Delhi) and AIIMS New Delhi were included. Two chairmen of the SIT were changed by the time board of experts submitted their report to R R Verma, then chairman of SIT. It was revealed in 2016 that the report submitted by the team of experts was not taken into considerations by the SIT while concluding their report. It attracted the attention of media and issue was politicised. Some of the files concerning to an affidavit by the then Government of India, in this case were found missing. An inquiry into this matter has been issued by Govt of India.\n\nAfter police dismissed the case against her assailants, Bilkis Bano approached the National Human Rights Commission of India and petitioned the Supreme Court seeking a reinvestigation. The Supreme Court granted the motion, directing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to take over the investigation. CBI appointed a team of experts from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) Delhi and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) under the guidance and leadership of Professor T. D. Dogra of AIIMS to exhume the mass graves to established the identity and cause of death of victims. The team successfully located and exhumed the remains of victims. The trial of the case was transferred out of Gujarat and directing the central government to appoint the public prosecutor. Charges were filed in a Mumbai court against nineteen people as well as six police officials and a government doctor over their role in the initial investigations. In January 2008, eleven men were sentenced to life imprisonment for the rape and murders and a policeman was convicted of falsifying evidence.\n\nThe case was referred to T D Dogra of AIIMS New Delhi for expert opinion, subsequently he appeared in court of law as an expert witness, he had explained the event through animation. On 25 Jul 2013, the Saket sessions court in its judgement convicted one of the suspects, Shahzad Ahmad, for murder of police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma and attempted murder of Head Constables Balwant Singh and Rajbir Singh. The court also found Ahmad guilty of obstructing and assaulting public servants, and grievously injuring the police officers to deter them from performing their duty.\nNear to Shopian a town about 40 km away from Srinagar, Kashmir two women were found dead on the banks of Rambiara Nala, the autopsies were conducted by a team of doctors of Kashmir including one lady doctor. The cause of death was given as head injury. The vaginal swabs were preserved which were positive for spermatozoa at FSL Srinagar. There was agitation led by Majlis Musharraf in Kashmir. The police officers were arrested. The matter was taken by Kashmir High court Suo moto. CBI was entrusted with investigations who engaged Professor T D Dogra as chairman of the team of experts, which included experts from CFSL(central forensic laboratory New Delhi) and AIIMS New Delhi. After exhumation and exhaustive examination, Board of experts concluded that cause of death was drowning and it was a case of deception because vaginal swabs did not belong to the deceased ladies, these were of the source other than the two deceased ladies, it was concluded by DNA Profiling.\n\nIndira Gandhi was brought at 9:30 AM to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, where doctors operated on her. She was declared dead at 2:20 PM. The post-mortem examination was conducted by a team of doctors headed by Dr. T.D. Dogra. Dr. Dogra stated that as many as 30 bullet wounds were sustained by Indira Gandhi, from two sources, a Sten gun and a pistol. The assailants had fired 31 bullets at her, of which 30 had hit; 23 had passed through her body while 7 were trapped inside her. Dr. Dogra extracted bullets to establish the identity of the weapons and to match each weapon with the bullets recovered by ballistic examination. The bullets were matched with respective weapons at CFSL Delhi. Subsequently, Dr. Dogra appeared in the court of Shri Mahesh Chandra as an expert witness (PW-5), and his testimony lasted several sessions. The cross examination was conducted by Shri P. N. Lekhi, the defence counsel. Salma Sultan gave the first news of assassination of Indira Gandhi on Doordarshan's evening news on 31 October 1984, more than 10 hours after she was shot. She died two weeks and five days before her 67th birthday.\n\nShanmugam, one of the prime suspects, allegedly committed suicide in custody of SIT. This drew the attention of media and public. On 30 July 1991, it was raised as a starred question number *t13 in Parliament, by Shri Ram Nayak MP, while replying then Home Minister Shri S B Chavan said in proceedings \"..by Dr.T.D. Dogra, Additional Professor and Head of the Department of Forensic Medicines and Dr.D.N. Bhardwaj, Senior Resident Doctor in the Department of Forensic Medicines, All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. I will read the report for the information of the House so that if the Hon. Members have any doubts... (Interruptions)\".\n\nThe CBI and a team of forensic science experts reconstructed the alleged fake encounter of Tulsi Prajapati by Gujarat police in 2006 at Chhapri village in the district on Friday. The team headed by Rajendra Singh of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL),and T D Dogra of Forensic Medicine Department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS),began the reconstruction early morning. The forensic experts and CBI were assisted by state CID officials. CID was investigating the case before Supreme Court transferred it to the central agency. The experts obtained crucial data such as the distance between the police vehicle and the car in which Prajapati was travelling, location of Prajapati’s body after the encounter as per the CID’s FIR, how police officers fired at Prajapati and the distance from which they fired.\n\nDogra married Lalita Sharma from Palampur, Himachal Pradesh, in 1975. They have two children (Ankit and Aakanksha) and three grandchildren (Shaunak, Vanya and Arnayaa).\n\n"}
{"id": "44670834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44670834", "title": "Title 52 of the United States Code", "text": "Title 52 of the United States Code\n\nTitle 52 of the United States Code (52 U.S.C.), entitled \"Voting and Elections\", is a codification of the \"general and permanent\" voting and election laws of the United States federal government. It was adopted as a result of \"editorial reclassification\" efforts of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the United States House of Representatives and was not enacted as positive law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7080364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7080364", "title": "Treaty of London (1864)", "text": "Treaty of London (1864)\n\nThe Treaty of London in 1864 was in regard to the United Kingdom ceding the United States of the Ionian Islands to Greece. The United Kingdom had held an amical protectorate over the islands since the 1815 Treaty of Paris. \n\nThe federated United States of the Ionian Islands included seven islands off the coasts of Epirus and the Peloponnese, that had remained in Venetian hands until 1797 and escaped Ottoman rule. Of the seven, six lay in the Ionian Sea, off the western coast of the Greek mainland. These six states were Corfù (Kerkyra), Ithaca, Paxò, Cephalonia, Zante (Zakynthos) and Santa Maura (Lefkas). Cerigo (Kythera) was also a state of the federation, although it is situated southeast of the Peloponnese.\n\nEver since Greece had become independent in 1832, the people of the Ionian islands had resented foreign rule. At a Cabinet meeting in 1862, British Foreign Secretary Palmerston decided to cede the islands to Greece. This policy was also favoured by Queen Victoria. The practical reasoning was that maintenance of ownership in the area was too expensive. Besides, the islands did not have great strategic importance; the United Kingdom would still maintain a strategic presence in the Mediterranean from the island of Malta. \n\nThe decision to cede the islands was also influenced by the accession to the Greek throne of the Danish prince George, a committed Anglophile. Indeed, in a referendum in November 1862, the Greeks had elected Queen Victoria's second son, Prince Alfred, as their King, partly in the hope of receiving the Ionian Islands.\n\nAfter long negotiations with Greece, the Treaty of London was signed by Greek delegate Charilaos Trikoupis on 29 March 1864. On 2 May 1864 the British departed and the Ionian islands became three provinces of the Kingdom of Greece, although Britain retained use of the port on Corfu.\n\nThis can be seen as the first example of voluntary decolonization by Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15770832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15770832", "title": "United Kingdom competition law", "text": "United Kingdom competition law\n\nUnited Kingdom competition law is affected by both British and European elements. The Competition Act 1998 and the Enterprise Act 2002 are the most important statutes for cases with a purely national dimension. However, if the effect of a business' conduct would reach across borders, the European Commission has competence to deal with the problems, and exclusively EU law would apply. Even so, the section 60 of the Competition Act 1998 provides that UK rules are to be applied in line with European jurisprudence. Like all competition law, that in the UK has three main tasks.\n\nThe Competition and Markets Authority enforces competition law on behalf of the public. It merged the Office of Fair Trading with the Competition Commission after the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 Part 3. Consumer welfare and the public interest are the main objective of competition law, including industrial policy, regional development, protection of the environment and the running of public services. Competition law is closely connected with law on deregulation of access to markets, state aids and subsidies, the privatisation of state owned assets and the establishment of independent sector regulators. Specific \"watchdog\" agencies such as Ofgem, Ofcom and Ofwat are charged with seeing how the operation of those specific markets work. The OFT and the Competition Commission's work is generally confined to the rest.\n\nLegislation in England to control monopolies and restrictive practices were in force well before the Norman Conquest. The Domesday Book recorded that \"foresteel\" (i.e. forestalling, the practice of buying up goods before they reach market and then inflating the prices) was one of three forfeitures that King Edward the Confessor could carry out through England. But concern for fair prices also led to attempts to directly regulate the market. Under Henry III an act was passed in 1266 to fix bread and ale prices in correspondence with corn prices laid down by the assizes. Penalties for breach included amercements, pillory and tumbrel. A fourteenth century statute labelled forestallers as \"oppressors of the poor and the community at large and enemies of the whole country.\" Under King Edward III the Statute of Labourers of 1349 fixed wages of artificers and workmen and decreed that foodstuffs should be sold at reasonable prices. On top of existing penalties, the statute stated that overcharging merchants must pay the injured party double the sum he received, an idea that has been replicated in punitive treble damages under US antitrust law. Also under Edward III, the following statutory provision in the poetic language of the time outlawed trade combinations.\n\n\"...we have ordained and established, that no merchant or other shall make Confederacy, Conspiracy, Coin, Imagination, or Murmur, or Evil Device in any point that may turn to the Impeachment, Disturbance, Defeating or Decay of the said Staples, or of anything that to them pertaineth, or may pertain.\"\n\nIn 1553, King Henry VIII reintroduced tariffs for foodstuffs, designed to stabilise prices, in the face of fluctuations in supply from overseas. So the legislation read here that whereas,\n\n\"it is very hard and difficult to put certain prices to any such things... [it is necessary because] prices of such victuals be many times enhanced and raised by the Greedy Covetousness and Appetites of the Owners of such Victuals, by occasion of ingrossing and regrating the same, more than upon any reasonable or just ground or cause, to the great damage and impoverishing of the King's subjects.\"\n\nAround this time organisations representing various tradesmen and handicraftspeople, known as guilds had been developing, and enjoyed many concessions and exemptions from the laws against monopolies. The privileges conferred were not abolished until the Municipal Corporations Act 1835. In 1561 a system of Industrial Monopoly Licences, similar to modern patents had been introduced into England. But by the reign of Queen Elizabeth I, the system was reputedly much abused and used merely to preserve privileges, encouraging nothing new in the way of innovation or manufacture. When a protest was made in the House of Commons and a Bill was introduced, the Queen convinced the protesters to challenge the case in the courts. This was the catalyst for the Case of Monopolies or \"Darcy v Allein\". The plaintiff, an officer of the Queen's household, had been granted the sole right of making playing cards and claimed damages for the defendant's infringement of this right. The court found the grant void and that three characteristics of monopoly were (1) price increases; (2) quality decrease; and (3) the tendency to reduce artificers to idleness and beggary.\n\nThis put a temporary end to complaints about monopoly, until King James I began to grant them again. In 1623 Parliament passed the Statute of Monopolies, which for the most part excluded patent rights from its prohibitions, as well as guilds. From King Charles I, through the civil war and to King Charles II, monopolies continued, especially useful for raising revenue. Then in 1684, in \"East India Company v Sandys\" it was decided that exclusive rights to trade only outside the realm were legitimate, on the grounds that only large and powerful concerns could trade in the conditions prevailing overseas. In 1710 to deal with high coal prices caused by a Newcastle Coal Monopoly the New Law was passed. Its provisions stated that \"all and every contract or contracts, Covenants and Agreements, whether the same be in writing or not in writing... are hereby declared to be illegal.\" When Adam Smith wrote the \"Wealth of Nations\" in 1776 he was somewhat cynical of the possibility for change.\n\n\"To expect indeed that freedom of trade should ever be entirely restored in Great Britain is as absurd as to expect that Oceana or Utopia should ever be established in it. Not only the prejudices of the public, but what is more unconquerable, the private interests of many individuals irresistibly oppose it. The Member of Parliament who supports any proposal for strengthening this Monopoly is seen to acquire not only the reputation for understanding trade, but great popularity and influence with an order of men whose members and wealth render them of great importance.\"\n\nThe classical British perspective on competition was that certain agreements and business practice could be an unreasonable restraint on the individual liberty of tradespeople to carry on their livelihoods. Restraints were judged as permissible or not by courts as new cases appeared and in the light of changing business circumstances. Hence the courts found specific categories of agreement, specific clauses, to fall foul of their doctrine on economic fairness, and they did not contrive an overarching conception of market power. Adam Smith rejected any monopoly power on this basis.\n\n\"A monopoly granted either to an individual or to a trading company has the same effect as a secret in trade or manufactures. The monopolists, by keeping the market constantly under-stocked, by never fully supplying the effectual demand, sell their commodities much above the natural price, and raise their emoluments, whether they consist in wages or profit, greatly above their natural rate.\"\n\nIn \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776), Adam Smith also pointed out the cartel problem, but did not advocate legal measures to combat them.\n\n\"People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices. It is impossible indeed to prevent such meetings, by any law which either could be executed, or would be consistent with liberty and justice. But though the law cannot hinder people of the same trade from sometimes assembling together, it ought to do nothing to facilitate such assemblies; much less to render them necessary.\"\n\nSmith also rejected the very existence of, not just dominant and abusive corporations, but corporations at all.\n\nBy the latter half of the nineteenth century it had become clear that large firms had become a fact of the market economy. John Stuart Mill's approach was laid down in his treatise \"On Liberty\" (1859).\n\n\"Again, trade is a social act. Whoever undertakes to sell any description of goods to the public, does what affects the interest of other persons, and of society in general; and thus his conduct, in principle, comes within the jurisdiction of society... both the cheapness and the good quality of commodities are most effectually provided for by leaving the producers and sellers perfectly free, under the sole check of equal freedom to the buyers for supplying themselves elsewhere. This is the so-called doctrine of Free Trade, which rests on grounds different from, though equally solid with, the principle of individual liberty asserted in this Essay. Restrictions on trade, or on production for purposes of trade, are indeed restraints; and all restraint, qua restraint, is an evil...\"\n\nThe English law of restraint of trade is the direct predecessor to modern competition law. Its current use is small, given modern and economically oriented statutes in most common law countries. Its approach was based on the two concepts of prohibiting agreements that ran counter to public policy, unless the reasonableness of an agreement could be shown. A restraint of trade is simply some kind of agreed provision that is designed to restrain another's trade. For example, in \"Nordenfelt v Maxim, Nordenfelt Gun Co\" a Swedish arm inventor promised on sale of his business to an American gun maker that he \"would not make guns or ammunition anywhere in the world, and would not compete with Maxim in any way.\"\n\nTo be considered whether or not there is a restraint of trade in the first place, both parties must have provided valuable consideration for their agreement. In \"Dyer's case\" a dyer had given a bond not to exercise his trade in the same town as the plaintiff for six months but the plaintiff had promised nothing in return. On hearing the plaintiff's attempt to enforce this restraint, Hull J exclaimed,\n\n\"per Dieu, if the plaintiff were here, he should go to prison until he had paid a fine to the King.\"\n\nThe common law has evolved to reflect changing business conditions. So in the 1613 case of \"Rogers v Parry\" a court held that a joiner who promised not to trade from his house for 21 years could have this bond enforced against him since the time and place was certain. It was also held that a man cannot bind himself to not use his trade generally by Chief Justice Coke. This was followed in \"Broad v Jolyffe\" and \"Mitchell v Reynolds\" where Lord Macclesfield asked, \"What does it signify to a tradesman in London what another does in Newcastle?\" In times of such slow communications, commerce around the country it seemed axiomatic that a general restraint served no legitimate purpose for one's business and ought to be void. But already in 1880 in \"Roussillon v Roussillon\" Lord Justice Fry stated that a restraint unlimited in space need not be void, since the real question was whether it went further than necessary for the promisee's protection. So in the \"Nordenfelt\" case Lord McNaughton ruled that while one could validly promise to \"not make guns or ammunition anywhere in the world\" it was an unreasonable restraint to \"not compete with Maxim in any way.\" This approach in England was confirmed by the House of Lords in \"Mason v The Provident Supply and Clothing Co\"\n\nModern competition law is heavily influenced by the American experience. The so-called Sherman Act of 1890 and the Clayton Act of 1914 (in the US they often name legislation after the people who propose it) were passed by Presidents concerned about the threat of big business to the power of the government. It was originally used to break up the \"trust\" arrangements, big company groups with intricate power sharing schemes. This is where their word \"antitrust\" comes from. The legislation was modelled on the restraint of trade doctrine they had inherited from English law. After the Second World War the American version of competition policy was imposed on Germany and Japan. It was thought that one of the ways Hitler and the Emperor had been able to assume such absolute power was simply by bribing or coercing the relatively small numbers of big cartel and \"zaibatsu\" chiefs into submission. Economic control meant political supremacy, and competition policy was necessary to destroy it. Under the Treaty of Rome, which founded the European Economic Community, competition laws were inserted. The American jurisprudence was naturally influential, as the European Court of Justice interpreted the relevant provisions (now Article 81 and Article 82) through its own developing body of case law.\n\nIn the mean time, Britain's own approach moved slowly, and saw no urgency for a similar competition law regime. The common law continued to serve its purpose, and debate about economic policy had become radically different after the First World War. A number of key industries had been nationalised, and the new Labour Party was committed to a socialist economic agenda: progressive democratic ownership of the means of production. In other words, the debate about economic policy was being had on a totally different level. Controlling private industry from arms length regulatory mechanisms was neither here nor there. After the second world war, this case was strengthened, yet Clement Attlee's Labour government did introduce the Monopolies and Restrictive Practices (Inquiry and Control) Act 1948. Far more limited than the Americanesque versions, this was updated in 1953. The Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1956 made it illegal for manufacturers to act in collusion to jointly maintain resale prices for their products to consumers. Later came the Monopolies and Mergers Act 1965 and the Monopolies And Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1969.\n\nThe United Kingdom joined the European Community (EC) with the European Community Act 1972, and through that became subject to EC competition law. Since the Maastricht Treaty of 1992, the EC was renamed the European Union (EU). Competition law falls under the social and economic pillar of the treaties. After the introduction of the Treaty of Lisbon the pillar structure was abandoned and competition law was subsumed in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). So where a British company is carrying out unfair business practices, is involved in a cartel or is attempting to merge in a way which would disrupt competition across UK borders, the Commission of the European Union will have enforcement powers and exclusively EU law will apply. The first provision is Article 101 TFEU, which deals with cartels and restrictive vertical agreements. Prohibited are...\n\n\"(1) ...all agreements between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices which may affect trade between Member States and which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the common market...\"\n\nArticle 101(1) TFEU then gives examples of \"hard core\" restrictive practices such as price fixing or market sharing and 101(2) TFEU confirms that any agreements are automatically void. However, just like the Statute of Monopolies 1623, Article 101(3) TFEU creates exemptions, if the collusion is for distributional or technological innovation, gives consumers a \"fair share\" of the benefit and does not include unreasonable restraints (or disproportionate, in ECJ terminology) that risk eliminating competition anywhere. Article 102 TFEU deals with monopolies, or more precisely firms who have a dominant market share and abuse that position. Unlike U.S. Antitrust, EU law has never been used to punish the existence of dominant firms, but merely imposes a special responsibility to conduct oneself appropriately. Specific categories of abuse listed in Article 102 EC include price discrimination and exclusive dealing, much the same as sections 2 and 3 of the U.S. Clayton Act. Also under Article 102 EC, the European Council was empowered to enact a regulation to control mergers between firms, currently the latest known by the abbreviation of ECMR \"Reg. 139/2004\". The general test is whether a concentration (i.e. merger or acquisition) with a community dimension (i.e. affects a number of EU member states) might significantly impede effective competition. Again, the similarity to the Clayton Act's substantial lessening of competition. Finally, Articles 106 and 107 TFEU regulate the state's role in the market. Article 106(2) EC states clearly that nothing in the rules cannot be used to obstruct a member state's right to deliver public services, but that otherwise public enterprises must play by the same rules on collusion and abuse of dominance as everyone else. Article 107 TFEU, similar to Article 101 TFEU, lays down a general rule that the state may not aid or subsidise private parties in distortion of free competition, but then grants exceptions for things like charities, natural disasters or regional development.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7209753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7209753", "title": "Voter registration in the United States", "text": "Voter registration in the United States\n\nVoter registration in the United States is the voter registration that is required for voting in federal, state and local elections in the United States. The only exception is North Dakota, which does not require registration, although North Dakota law allows cities to register voters for city elections. Voter registration takes place at the county level in many states and at the municipal level in several states. Most states set cutoff dates for voter registration, ranging from 2 to 4 weeks before an election; while a third of states have Election Day or \"same-day\" voter registration which enables eligible citizens to register or update their registration when they vote before or on Election Day.\n\nIt has been argued that some registration requirements deter some people (especially disadvantaged people) from registering and therefore exercising their right to vote, resulting in a lower voter turnout. According to a 2012 study, 24% of the voting-eligible population in the United States are not registered to vote, equaling some 51 million U.S. citizens. While voters traditionally had to register at government offices by a certain period of time before an election, in the mid-1990s, the federal government made efforts to facilitate registering, in an attempt to increase turnout. The National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (the \"Motor Voter\" law) now requires state governments to \"either\" provide uniform opt-in registration services through drivers' license registration centers, disability centers, schools, libraries, and mail-in registration, \"or\" to allow Election Day voter registration, where voters can register at polling places immediately prior to voting. In 2016, Oregon became the first state to make voter registration fully automatic (opt-out) when issuing driver licenses and ID cards, since followed by four more states. Political parties and other organizations sometimes hold \"voter registration drives\", that is, events to register new voters.\n\nIn most states, persons registering to vote may at the same time declare an affiliation with a political party.\n\nWhile the United States Congress has jurisdiction over laws applying to federal elections, it has deferred the making of most aspects of election laws to the states. The United States Constitution prohibits states from restricting voting rights in ways that infringe on a person's right to equal protection under the law (14th Amendment), on the basis of race (15th Amendment), on the basis of sex (19th Amendment), on the basis of having failed to pay a poll tax or any tax (24th Amendment), or on the basis of age for persons age 18 and older (26th Amendment). The administration of elections, however, vary widely across jurisdictions.\n\nOnly US citizens have the right to vote in federal elections. In a few cases, permanent residents (\"green card\" holders) have registered to vote and have cast ballots without realizing that doing so was illegal. Non-citizens convicted in criminal court of having made a false claim of citizenship for the purpose of registering to vote in a federal election can be fined and imprisoned for up to a year. Deportation and removal proceedings have resulted from several such cases. Some states prohibit convicted felons from voting, a practice known as felony disenfranchisement. Of these states, some prohibit voting only during parole or probation but allow voting after. A small number of states may require repeat offenders to have their voting rights restored through court action.\n\nA 2012 study by The Pew Charitable Trusts estimates that 24% of the voting-eligible population in the United States are not registered to vote, a percentage that represents \"at least 51 million eligible U.S. citizens.\" The study suggests that registration requirements contribute to discouraging people from exercising their right to vote, thereby causing a lower voter turnout. The extent of discouragement and its effect on increasing the socioeconomic bias of the electorate however remain contested.\n\nIn a 1980 landmark study, Raymond E. Wolfinger and Steven J. Rosenstone came to the conclusion that less restrictive registration requirements would substantially increase the electoral turnout. According to their probit analysis, if all states adopted the procedures of the most permissive state regulations, which would mean:\n(p 73) turnout in the 1972 presidential election would have been 9.1% higher, with 12.2 million additional people having voted. In a seminal 1988 book, sociologists Richard Cloward and Francis Fox Piven argued that lowering registration requirements would improve socioeconomic equality in the composition of the electorate.\n\nFindings such as this have inspired lawmakers to facilitate the registration process, eventually leading to the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (or \"Motor Voter\" act) that required states to allow voter registration at various public offices, including drivers' license registration centers, disability centers, schools, libraries, as well as mail-in registration, unless a state adopts Election Day voter registration. The way towards passing this piece of federal legislation was however lengthy and rocky, as these reforms were highly contested. In an expanded 1990 edition of their 1988 book, titled \"Why Americans still don't vote: and why politicians want it that way,\" Cloward and Piven argued that the reforms were expected to encourage less-privileged groups which happen to lean towards the Democratic Party.\n\nWhile the turnout at federal elections did substantially increase following the electoral reforms, the effect fell short of Wolfinger and Rosenstone's expectations while Cloward's and Piven's hope of improving the demographic representativeness of\nthe electorate wasn't fulfilled at all. Political scientist Adam Berinsky concluded in a 2005 article that the reforms designed to make voting \"easier\" in their entirety had an opposite effect, actually \"increasing\" the preexisting socioeconomic biases by ensuring \"that those citizens who are most engaged with the political world – those with politically relevant resources – continue to participate, whereas those individuals without such resources fall by the wayside.\" As Berinsky reaffirms in a 2016 piece, the only way to increase turnout while improving representativeness is making more people become interested in politics.\n\nTraditionally, voters have had to register at government offices to vote, but in 1993 Congress passed the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, also known as the \"Motor Voter\" law, which came into effect on January 1, 1995, to make registering easier, in an attempt to increase turnout. The law requires state governments to provide opt-in registration services through drivers' license registration centers, disability centers, schools, libraries, and mail-in registration, though the States which since March 11, 1993, have not required voter registration for federal elections or had same-day voter registration on Election Day were exempt from the Act. Six states qualify for the exemption: North Dakota (which does not have registration), Idaho, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Wisconsin and Wyoming.\n\nAs of December 6, 2017, 37 states and the District of Columbia offer online registration, along with one other state (Oklahoma) that has passed legislation to create online voter registration systems, but not yet implemented it.\n\nAs of October 9, 2018, 8 states and the District of Columbia provide automatic registration when citizens interact with state agencies such as the DMV, along with 4 other states that have passed legislation to create automatic registration systems, but not yet implemented it. Those interacting with the state agencies have the option to opt-out of registering.\n\nFrom January 1, 2016, Oregon implemented the Motor Voter Act, a fully automatic (opt-out) voter registration system tied into the process of issuing driver licenses and ID cards. By April 2016 three more states – California, West Virginia, and Vermont – had followed suit, and in May 2016 Connecticut announced plans to implement it administratively rather than by legislation, bringing the number of states with automatic voter registration policies to five. Alaskan voters approved Measure 1 during the November 8, 2016, general election, allowing residents the ability to register to vote when applying annually for the state's Permanent Dividend Fund. Voter approval of Measure 1 made Alaska the first state to implement automatic (opt-in) voter registration via ballot initiative and the sixth state to implement automatic registration by any means including passing legislation. Several more states have considered legislation for automatic registration. On August 28, 2017, Governor Bruce Rauner signed Illinois SB1933, which sets implementation of automatic voter registration at motor vehicle agencies for July 1, 2018, and a year later at other state agencies.\n\nThe majority of states require voters to register two to four weeks before an election, with cutoff dates varying from 30 to 15 days.\n\nSome states allow Election Day voter registration (also known as EDR) which enables eligible citizens to register to vote or update their registration when they arrive to vote. Some states call the procedure same-day registration (SDR) because voters can register and vote during an earlier voting period before Election Day.\n\nEDR allows eligible citizens to register or update their registration at the polls or their local election office by showing valid identification to a poll worker or election official, who checks the identification, consults the registration list and, if they are not registered or the registration is out of date, registers them on the spot.\n\nAs of March 27, 2018, 17 states and the District of Columbia offer same day voter registration, which allows any qualified resident of the state to go to register to vote and cast a ballot all in that day. Additionally, 1 state (Washington) has enacted same day vote registration, which has yet to be implemented. Also, 9 states have voter registration possible for a portion of their early voting periods. \n\nFive states are exempt from the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 because they have continuously since 1993 had EDR: Idaho, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Maine lost the exemption when it abolished EDR in 2011, though it was subsequently restored. North Dakota is also exempt because it does not have a registration requirement. In June 2011, Maine abolished EDR, which had been in place since 1973, and abolished absentee voting during the two business days before an election. However, the stipulation banning EDR was overturned in a November 2011 citizen referendum (\"people's veto\") titled Question 1, when Maine voters reinstated EDR with 59% in favor.\n\nVoter turnout is much higher in states using EDR than in states that do not. A 2013 report analyzing turnout in the 2012 United States presidential election, had SDR states averaging at a turnout of 71%, well above the average voter turn-out rate of 59% for non-SDR states. According to official turnout data report in the 2014 edition of America Goes to the Polls, voter turnout in EDR states has averaged 10–14 percent higher than states that lack that option. Research suggests that EDR increases turnout between three and fourteen percentage points. A 2004 study summarizes the impact of EDR on voter turnout as \"about five percentage points\".\n\nAs of 2014, Delaware, Hawaii, Oregon, and Texas allow registered voters who have moved within the state to update their registrations when they vote, and are given a regular ballots when they vote. Florida requires any registered voter who moved to another county and another voting precinct to vote only by a provisional ballot, except if \"the precinct to which you have moved has an electronic poll book or you are an active military member\", in which case the voter would be giving a regular ballot when they vote. As of 2014, the District of Columbia, Maryland, Ohio, and Utah allow registered voters who have moved within the state or the District of Columbia to vote in their new county without re-registering at their new address, but they can only vote a provisional ballot, which could require further action from the voter before it is counted.\n\nA voter registration drive is an effort undertaken by government authorities as well as political parties and other entities to register to vote all persons otherwise entitled to vote. In many countries the functions of electoral authorities includes endeavours to get as many people to register to vote as possible. In most jurisdictions, registration on the electoral roll is a prerequisite to a person being able to vote at elections.\n\nIn the United States, such drives are often undertaken by a political campaign, political party, or other outside groups (partisan and non-partisan), that seeks to register persons who are eligible to vote but are not registered. In all states except North Dakota, registration on the electoral roll in the United States is a prerequisite to a person being able to vote at federal, state or local elections, as well as to serve on juries and perform other civil duties. Sometimes these drives are undertaken for partisan purposes, and target specific demographic groups that are likely to vote for one candidate or other; on the other hand, such drives are sometimes undertaken by non-partisan groups and targeted more generally.\n\nIn 2004, the Nu Mu Lambda chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity held a voter registration drive in DeKalb County, Georgia, from which Georgia Secretary of State Cathy Cox (Dem.) rejected all 63 voter registration applications on the basis that the fraternity did not follow correct procedures, including obtaining specific pre-clearance from the state to conduct their drive. Nu Mu Lambda filed \"Charles H. Wesley Education Foundation v. Cathy Cox\" (\"Wesley v. Cox\") on the basis that the Georgia's long-standing policy and practice of rejecting mail-in voter registration applications that were submitted in bundles, by persons other than registrars, deputy registrars, or \"authorized persons\", violated the requirements of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 by undermining voter registration drives. A senior U.S. District Judge upheld earlier federal court decisions in the case, which also found private entities have a right, under the federal law, to engage in organized voter registration activity in Georgia at times and locations of their choosing, without the presence or permission of state or local election officials.\n\nNotable national organizations that regularly work to register voters and promote citizens' engagement in elections include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7610225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7610225", "title": "Zechariah Chafee", "text": "Zechariah Chafee\n\nZechariah Chafee, Jr. (December 7, 1885 – February 8, 1957), was an American professor of law, judicial philosopher and civil rights advocate. Defending freedom of speech, he was described by Senator Joseph McCarthy as \"dangerous\" to America. Legal scholar Richard Primus called Chafee \"possibly the most important First Amendment scholar of the first half of the twentieth century.\"\n\nChafee was born in Providence, Rhode Island, and graduated from Brown University, where he was a member of Alpha Delta Phi, in 1907. Later, he received a law degree from Harvard University, completing his LL.B. in 1913. He was influenced by the theories of sociological Jurisprudence presented by Roscoe Pound and others at Harvard. He met Harold J. Laski, a political scientist and later a leader of the United Kingdom's Labour Party, who became a lifelong friend, there. He practiced at the law firm of Tillinghast & Collins from 1913–1916. Chafee joined Harvard Law School as an assistant professor at Harvard Law School in 1916, and was promoted to full professor in 1919. He was appointed Langdell Professor of Law in 1938 and university professor in 1950. He remained at Harvard Law School until 1956.\n\nChafee was also an authority on equity, interpleader, negotiable instruments, and unfair business competition. In 1936 Chafee drafted the Federal Interpleader Act of 1936 (), he considered this his foremost professional accomplishment. He became an expert on congressional apportionment and helped apportion seats in the United States House of Representatives based on the 1930, 1940 and 1950 censuses.\n\nIn 1920 he was one of twelve lawyers reporting on illegal activities of the Department of Justice.\n\nChafee nearly lost his job in 1921. He was brought before the Harvard Board of Overseers on a charge of radicalism for his questioning of the sentence handed down in Abrams v. United States . He defended himself eloquently before a special committee in the Harvard Club of Boston and was allowed to remain at the law school.\n\nFrom 1929 to 1931 Chafee was a consultant to the National Commission on Law Observance and Enforcement ( the Wickersham Commission) for which he co-author of report on lawlessness in law enforcement in 1931.\n\nHe was Lowell Television Lecturer for the 1956-1957 academic year and finished a 16 lecture television series \"The Constitution and Human Rights\", an adaptation of a general education course he developed here in 1950, on Boston's educational Channel, WGBH just before he died.\n\nChafee received following honorary degrees: Doctor of Law from St. John's University, in 1936, Brown University in 1937, and the University of Chicago in 1953; Doctor of Civil Law from Boston University in 1941; and Doctor of Letters from Colby College in 1944.\n\nHe was a Fellow at Brown University, and a member of the American Philosophical Society, the American Bar Association, the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Massachusetts Historical Society, Alpha Delta Phi, Phi Beta Kappa, the Harvard Club of Boston, the Tavern Club (of Boston), and the Century Association).\n\nChafee wrote several works about civil liberties, including:\nChafee's first significant work (\"Freedom of Speech\") established modern First Amendment theory. Inspired by the United States' suppression of radical speech and ideas during the First World War, Chafee edited and updated a collection of several of his journal articles. In these individual articles-cum-chapters, he assessed significant World War I cases, including those of Emma Goldman.\n\nHe revised and reissued this work in 1941 as \"Free Speech in the United States\", which became a leading treatise on First Amendment law. His scholarship on civil liberties was a major influence on Oliver Wendell Holmes' and Louis Brandeis' post-World War I jurisprudence, which first established the First Amendment as a significant source of civil liberties. Chafee met with Justice Holmes after the \"Schenck\" case , which upheld a conviction of an activist who encouraged draft resistance, and convinced him that free speech needed greater consideration. Shortly thereafter, Holmes joined Brandeis in a dissent in another World War I dissent case; this dissent is recognized as the foundation of modern First Amendment jurisprudence.\n\nSome of Chafee's more important work occurred through his membership on the American Bar Association's Bill of Rights Committee to 1938 to 1947. In this capacity he submitted briefs \"amicus curiae\" several Supreme Court of the United States cases. In (West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette, Chafee submitted a \"amicus curiae\" brief to the Supreme Court hoping to persuade the Court to reverse an earlier decision upholding a state law requiring a salute to the flag by children of Jehovah's Witnesses based in the principles of freedom of speech and freedom of religion.\n\nChafee was, from 1943 from 1947, vice-chairman of the Commission on the Freedom of the Press (Hutchins Commission). The Commission was established in 1943 by Henry Luce to determine if freedom of the press was in danger in the United States and was chaired by Robert Maynard Hutchins.\n\nChafee became an advocate for international human rights through his work as a representative on the United Nations Subcommission on Freedom of Information and the Press in 1947 through 1951. He was a United States delegate to the 1948 United Nations Conference on Freedom of Information and the Press.\n\nChafee married Bess Frank Searle in 1912 and had four children: Zechariah Chafee III, Robert S. Chafee, Anne Chafee Brien, and Ellen Chafee Tillinghast. He and his wife both suffered nervous breakdowns and his son, Robert, committed suicide.\n\nHe was the scion of a notable Rhode Island family that traced its Rhode Island lineage back to Roger Williams. His father, Zechariah Chafee (Sr.), was long affiliated with Brown University. Chafee's nephew was Senator John Chafee and his grandnephew is the Governor and former Senator Lincoln Chafee.\n\nChafee died in Boston, Massachusetts, on February 8, 1957.\n\n\n"}
