{"id": "610323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610323", "title": "Albright–Knox Art Gallery", "text": "Albright–Knox Art Gallery\n\nThe Albright–Knox Art Gallery is an art museum located at 1285 Elmwood Avenue, Buffalo, New York, in Delaware Park. The gallery is a major showplace for modern art and contemporary art. It is located directly opposite Buffalo State College and the Burchfield Penney Art Center.\n\nThe parent organization of the Albright–Knox Art Gallery is the Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, founded in 1862. It is one of the oldest public arts institutions in the United States. In 1890, Buffalo entrepreneur and philanthropist, John J. Albright, a wealthy Buffalo industrialist, began the construction of the Albright Art Gallery for the Academy. The building was designed by prominent local architect Edward Brodhead Green. It was originally intended to be used as the Fine Arts Pavilion for the Pan-American Exposition in 1901, but delays in its construction caused it to remain uncompleted until 1905.\n\nIn 1962, a new addition was made to the gallery through the contributions of Seymour H. Knox, Jr. and his family, and many other donors. At this time the museum was renamed the Albright–Knox Art Gallery. The new building was designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill architect Gordon Bunshaft, who is noted for the Lever House in New York City. The Albright–Knox Art Gallery is listed in the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe museum first began discussing a possible expansion in 2001. In 2012, the board commissioned the architectural firm Snøhetta to produce a master plan for future growth. In 2014, the board voted to initiate a museum expansion and, in June 2016, the museum announced its selection of OMA as the architect for the project. Doubleline CEO and Buffalo native Jeffrey Gundlach has pledged $42.5 million to the project, while businesses, foundations, government groups, and individuals have promised matching funds toward a $125 million goal.\n\nIn 1978, the Gallery's exhibition on the work of Richard Diebenkorn was chosen to represent the United States at the 28th Venice Biennale. In 1988, the museum again won the competition to organize the exhibition representing the United States in Venice; the museum's curator Michael G. Auping proposed media artist Jenny Holzer.\n\nThe Albright–Knox Art Gallery has long operated not by collecting artists' work in depth but by trying to acquire key works. The gallery's collection includes several pieces spanning art throughout the centuries. Impressionistic and Post-Impressionistic styles can be found in works by artists of the nineteenth century such as Paul Gauguin and Vincent van Gogh.\n\nRevolutionary styles from the early twentieth century such as cubism, surrealism, constructivism are represented in works by artists like Pablo Picasso, Georges Braque, Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Henri Matisse, André Derain, Joan Miró, Piet Mondrian, and Alexander Rodchenko. Frida Kahlo is represented by \"Self-Portrait with Monkey\". Because of Seymour H. Knox and Gordon M. Smith, a former director, the Albright-Knox was one of the first museums to collect Abstract Expressionism in depth.\n\nMore modern pieces showing styles of abstract expressionism, pop art, and art of the 1970s through the end of the century can also be found represented by artists such as Arshile Gorky, Jackson Pollock, Clyfford Still, and Andy Warhol. Additionally, the gallery is also rich in various pieces of post-war American and European art; their contemporary collection includes pieces by artists such as Kiki Smith, Allan Graham, Georg Baselitz, John Connell, and Per Kirkeby. The museum bought Anselm Kiefer's large-scale \"Die Milchstrasse (The Milkyway)\" (1985–87) in 1988 to celebrate its 125th anniversary.\n\nThe Albright-Knox's current exhibition space can accommodate only 200 works — just 3% of its 6,740-piece collection.\n\nThe Albright-Knox has more than 6,500 works in its collection, below is a list highlighting a few other notable paintings:\n\nThe gallery contains a variety of sculptures on the exterior grounds. Some of the most notable, from the past and the present, include:\n\nIn 2007, the Albright–Knox Art Gallery deaccessioned a Roman-era bronze sculpture, \"Artemis and the Stag\", that was auctioned at Sotheby's New York on June 7, 2007, and brought $28.6 million. This was the highest price ever paid at auction for an antiquity or a sculpture of any period, according to Sotheby's. It was purchased by the London dealer Giuseppe Eskenazi on behalf of a private European collector.\n\nThe event brought national attention to what until then had been a local question, the mission of the Albright-Knox. In February 2007, when the list of works to be deaccessioned was made public, Albright-Knox Director Louis Grachos defined the ancient sculpture as falling outside the institution's historical \"core mission\" of \"acquiring and exhibiting art of the present.\" This definition made public critics wonder whether the position at the Gallery of \"William Hogarth's \"Lady's Last Stake\" or Sir Joshua Reynolds' \"Cupid as a Link Boy\" were secure. Works by Gustave Courbet, Honoré Daumier, Jacques-Louis David and Eugène Delacroix had been purchased by the museum in earlier decades.\n\nThe decision to deaccession certain art works was made by a vote of the museum's Board of Directors, was voted on and ratified by the entire membership, and followed the guidelines of the American Alliance of Museums. The sale raised questions about how museums can remain vital when they are situated in economically declining regions and have limited means for raising funds for operations and acquisitions.\n\nThe gallery is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Tuesday through Sunday. On the first Friday of each month, the gallery is open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. with free admission to the permanent collection through the support of M&T Bank.\n\nSince 2013, Janne Sirén has been director of the Albright–Knox Art Gallery. Sirén is believed to be the first director from the Nordic region to take the helm of a major American art museum.\n\nComplete list of directors:\n\nAs of 2007, the Albright–Knox Art Gallery's endowment stood at about $58 million, generating about $1.1 million a year for acquisitions. Since the proceeds from the sale of some 200 works of art in 2007 were added to the preexisting $22 million acquisitions endowment, the museum has been able to spend as much as almost $5 million on new art annually. In 2013, the Albright–Knox Art Gallery received an $11 million bequest from the estate of longtime board member and Buffalo arts patron Peggy Pierce Elfvin, possibly the largest single gift in the museum's history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1807421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1807421", "title": "Anne Lister", "text": "Anne Lister\n\nAnne Lister (1791–1840) was a well-off Yorkshire landowner, diarist, mountaineer and traveller.\nThroughout her life she kept diaries which chronicled the details of her daily life, including her lesbian relationships, her financial concerns, her industrial activities and her work improving Shibden Hall. Her diaries contain more than 4,000,000 words and about a sixth of them—those concerning the intimate details of her romantic and sexual relationships—were written in code. The code, derived from a combination of algebra and Ancient Greek, was deciphered in the 1980s. Lister is often called \"the first modern lesbian\" for her clear self-knowledge and openly lesbian lifestyle. Called \"Fred\" by her lover and \"Gentleman Jack\" by Halifax residents, she suffered from harassment for her sexuality, and recognised her similarity to the Ladies of Llangollen, whom she visited.\n\nAnne Lister was a rural gentlewoman who directed the renovation and landscaping of Shibden Hall, near Halifax in the West Riding of Yorkshire, which she had inherited from her uncle, James Lister.\n\nAnne was the eldest daughter of Jeremy Lister (1753–1836), who as a young man in 1775 served with the British 10th Regiment of Foot in the Battles of Lexington and Concord in the American War of Independence. In August 1788 he married Rebecca Battle (1770–1817) of Welton in East Riding, Yorkshire. Their first child, John, was born in 1789 but died the same year. Anne Lister was born in Halifax on 3 April 1791. In 1793 the family moved to an estate named Skelfler House at Market Weighton. Skelfler was where the young Anne Lister would spend her earliest years. A second son, Samuel, who would be a close friend to Anne, was born in 1793. The Listers had six children in total, but only Anne and her younger sister Marian survived to adulthood.\n\nBetween 1801 and 1805, Lister was educated at home by the Reverend George Skelding, the vicar of Market Weighton, and at the age of seven she was sent to a school run by a Mrs Hagues and a Mrs Chettle in Agnesgate, Ripon. On her visits to her aunt Anne and uncle James at Shibden Hall, the Misses Mellin gave her lessons. In 1804 Anne Lister was sent to the Manor House School in York (in the King's Manor buildings), where Anne would meet her first love, Eliza Raine (1791–1869). Eliza and her sister Jane were the very rich daughters of an East India Company surgeon in Madras, brought to Yorkshire after his death. Anne and Eliza met and shared a bedroom aged 13 at boarding school, but Anne was asked to leave after two years. She rejoined the school after Eliza had left. Eliza expected to live with Anne as an adult, but Anne began affairs with Isabella Norcliffe and Mariana Belcombe, day-pupils at the school. In despair and frustration Eliza became a patient at Clifton Asylum, run by Mariana's father Dr Belcombe. While being educated at home Lister developed an interest in classical literature. In a surviving letter to her aunt from 3 February 1803, a young Lister explains \"My library is my greatest pleasure... The Grecian History had please me much.\n\nHer wealth allowed her some measure of freedom to live as she pleased. She inherited the family estate on her aunt's death in 1836, Shibden Hall, but took charge of it from 1826, and from it drew a reasonable income (some of it from tenants).\n\nIn addition to income from agricultural tenancy, Lister's financial portfolio included properties in town, shares in the canal and railway industries, mining and stone quarries. Anne Lister used the income from this varied portfolio to finance her two passions; Shibden Hall and European travel.\n\nLister is described as having a \"masculine appearance\"; one of her lovers, Marianna Lawton (née Belcombe), was initially ashamed to be seen in public with her because her appearance was commented on. She dressed entirely in black and took part in many activities that were not perceived as the norm for gentlewomen, such as opening and owning a colliery. She was referred to as \"Gentleman Jack\" in some quarters. Lawton and Lister were lovers for several years, including a period during which Lawton was married and had her husband's permission.\n\nLister's subsequent affair with a wealthy heiress, Ann Walker, whom she met in 1832, was a story of local repute. The women took communion together on Easter Sunday 1834 in Holy Trinity Church, Goodramgate, York, which in their view married them. The church, recognised by a blue plaque, has been described as \"an icon for what is interpreted as the site of the first lesbian marriage to be held in Britain.\" The couple lived together at Shibden Hall until Lister's death in 1840. Walker's fortune was used to improve Shibden Hall and the property's waterfall and lake. Lister renovated Shibden Hall quite significantly to her own design. In 1838 she added a Gothic tower to the main house, to serve as her private library. She also had a tunnel dug under the building which allowed the staff to move about without disturbing her.\nIn 1830 while travelling in France, Lister was the first woman to ascend Monte Perdido in the Aragonese Pyrenees. In 1838, she came back to the Pyrenees with Walker and completed the first \"official\" ascent of the Vignemale ().\nIn France she was known as \"Ann Lister\" or \"Lady Lister\" only for this accomplishment.\nAnne Lister died on 22 September 1840 aged 49 of a fever at Koutais (now Kutaisi, Georgia) while travelling with Ann Walker. Walker, to whom ownership of Shibden Hall passed, had Lister's body embalmed and brought back to the UK, where she is buried in the parish church in Halifax, West Yorkshire. Ann Walker died in 1854 at her childhood home, Cliff Hill in Lightcliffe.\n\nThroughout her life, Lister had a strong faith in the Anglican Church.\nLister's family had a vault at the Halifax parish church where her remains were interred on 29 April 1841. Her tombstone was rediscovered in 2010 after being covered by a floor in 1879. The current family tomb is at St Anne's Church, Southowram, where John Lister is buried; he was the first to attempt the translation of Anne Lister's diaries.\n\nIn her will Lister's estate was left to her paternal cousins but Ann Walker was given a life interest. After being declared insane, Walker spent some years in the care of Dr. Belcombe and, because of her mental state, was unable to make a valid will.\n\nMore than forty years after her death, while reporting on a dispute over the ownership of Shibden Hall, the \"Leeds Times\" stated 'Miss Lister's masculine singularities of character are still remembered'.\n\nDuring her life, Anne wrote a four-million-word diary. It began in 1806 as scraps of paper, recording in secret code parcels sent to and from Eliza Raine, and eventually became the 26 Quarto volumes ending at her death in 1840. In addition to her handwriting being incredibly difficult to decipher, around one-sixth of the diary is encrypted in a simple code she and Eliza had devised, combining the Greek alphabet, zodiac, punctuation and mathematical symbols, and it describes quite graphically her lesbian nature and affairs, as well as the tactics she used for seduction. The diaries also contain her thoughts on the weather, social events, national events and her business interests. The majority of her diary deals with her daily life, and not merely her lesbianism, and provides detailed information on social, political and economic events of the time.\n\nThe code used in her diaries was deciphered by the last inhabitant of Shibden Hall, John Lister (1847–1933) and a friend of his, Arthur Burrell. When the content of the secret passages was revealed, Burrell advised John Lister to burn all the diaries. Lister did not take this advice, but instead continued to hide Anne Lister's diaries behind a panel at Shibden Hall.\n\nIn 2011, Lister's diaries were added to the register of the UNESCO Memory of the World Programme. The register citation notes that, while a valuable account of the times, it was the 'comprehensive and painfully honest account of lesbian life and reflections on her nature, however, which have made these diaries unique. They have shaped and continue to shape the direction of UK Gender Studies and Women’s History.'\n\nWork by Dorothy Thompson and Patricia Hughes in the late 1980s resulted in discovery of the first juvenile Lister diaries and decoding of the other two Lister codes. Hughes self-published \"Anne Lister's Secret Diary for 1817\" (2006) and \"The Early Life of Miss Anne Lister and the Curious Tale of Miss Eliza Raine\" (2010), both of which make extensive use of other materials in the Lister archives including letters, diaries and ancillary documents.\n\nHelena Whitbread published some of the diaries in two volumes (1988 and 1992). Their graphic nature meant at first they were believed by some to be a hoax but documentary evidence has since established their authenticity. A biography by Jill Liddington appeared in 1994. In 2014 a conference was held at Shibden Hall which focused on Lister's life along with gender and sexuality in the nineteenth century. A biography by Angela Steidele in the German language was published in 2017.\n\nIn 1994 the first episode of the BBC Two series \"A Skirt Through History\" titled \"A Marriage\" featured Julia Ford as Anne Lister, and Sophie Thursfield as Marianna Belcombe.\n\nIn 2010, BBC Two broadcast a production based on Lister's life, \"The Secret Diaries of Miss Anne Lister\", starring Maxine Peake as Lister. \"Revealing Anne Lister\", a documentary featuring Sue Perkins, was broadcast on 31 May 2010 on BBC Two.\n\nIn 2012, on their second album, \"The Fragile\", chamber folk duo O'Hooley & Tidow (Belinda O'Hooley and Heidi Tidow) released a song about Anne Lister, which is called \"Gentleman Jack\".\n\nIn 2017 a historical drama called \"Gentleman Jack\" was announced, starring Suranne Jones as Anne Lister. It will focus on the life of Anne Lister.\n\nIn 2018 a blue plaque with rainbow edging and wording \"Gender-nonconforming entrepreneur. Celebrated marital commitment, without legal recognition, to Ann Walker in this church. Easter, 1834\" was unveiled at Holy Trinity Church in York to honor her; it is York's first LGBT history plaque. The wording was criticised for not including \"lesbian\", and it was agreed to change it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24331087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24331087", "title": "AutografExpo", "text": "AutografExpo\n\nAutografExpo was an exhibition of contemporary signed documents and autographs of public interest in Poland. The main organizer and promoter was forensic expert Jaroslaw Pijarowski.\nOver a three-year period, a planning committee examined and chose 2,000 items from 75,000. It first opened July 5, 2008, in the Museum of Diplomacy and Polish Refugees, in the city of Bydgoszcz. \n\nThe exhibition also featured a display, \"Act of Unity,\" a special signed document that commemorated the tenth anniversary of the creation of the Kuyavian-Pomeranian provincial region on 1 January 1999. \n\nFranciszek Starowieyski received an award of the most interesting graphical representation of contemporary autographs.\nAfter the exhibition, Jaroslaw Pijarowski received a special diploma and award from the head of the city of Bydgoszcz, Konstanty Dombrowicz\n\n"}
{"id": "282226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282226", "title": "Baseball card", "text": "Baseball card\n\nA baseball card is a type of trading card relating to baseball, usually printed on cardboard, silk, or plastic. These cards feature one or more baseball players, teams, stadiums, or celebrities. Baseball cards are most often found in the U.S. but are also common in countries such as Canada, Cuba, Japan and Puerto Rico where top-level leagues are present with a substantial fan base to support them. Some companies that are notable for making these cards include Topps, Upper Deck Company, and Panini Group. Previous manufacturers include Fleer (now a brand name owned by Upper Deck), Bowman (now a brand name owned by Topps), and Donruss (now a brand name owned by Panini Group). Baseball cards have been declining in value since the 1980s after the production of mass-produced cards and counterfeit cards started, however, baseball cards are still one of the most influential collectibles of all time. A T206 Honus Wagner was sold for $2.8 million in 2007.\n\nWhile baseball cards were first produced in the United States, as the popularity of baseball spread to other countries, so too did the production of baseball cards. Sets appeared in Japan as early as 1898, in Cuba as early as 1909 and in Canada as early as 1912.\n\nThe obverse (front) of the card typically displays an image of the player with identifying information, including, but not limited to, the player's name and team affiliation. The reverse of most modern cards displays statistics and/or biographical information. Many early trade cards displayed advertisements for a particular brand or company on the back. Tobacco companies were the most instrumental in the proliferation of baseball cards, which they used as value added bonuses and advertisements for their products. Although the function of trading cards had much in common with business cards, the format of baseball cards most resembled that of playing cards — at least initially. For an example, one need look no further than the design of 1951 Topps Baseball.\n\nWhile there are no firm standards that limit the size or shape of a baseball card, most cards of today are rectangular, measuring 2½ inches by 3½ inches (6.4 cm by 8.9 cm).\n\nSince early baseball cards were produced primarily as a marketing vehicle, collectors began to classify those cards by the 'type' of company producing the set. The system implemented by Jefferson Burdick in \"The American Card Catalog\" has become the \"de facto\" standard in identifying and organizing trade cards produced in the Americas pre-1951. The catalog itself extends into many other areas of collecting beyond the sport of baseball. Sets like 1909–1911 White Borders, 1910 Philadelphia Caramels, and 1909 Box Tops are most commonly referred to by their ACC catalog numbers (T206, E95, and W555, respectively).\n\nThe rarest baseball cards are the ones which are difficult to find and also the most expensive ones. The rare type of cards are the oldest baseball cards and those from limited edition sets.\nA rare card generally must be kept in good condition in order to be valuable, although the rarest cards can be worth tens of thousands of dollars even in poor condition. Price also increases if there is an autograph on it. Rare baseball cards or the vintage baseball cards do not have a certain price established. Their value is judged upon their quality, condition, rarity and upon the number of collectors that are seeking them.\n\nVintage baseball cards have been a prime focus of countless collectors and historians of one of America's favorite pastimes. Some baseball card collectors pay large sums of money to gain possession of these cards and they may also put a lot of time into it. Since rare baseball cards are difficult to find, collectors seek for ways to be aware of the rare cards that come into the trading or selling market. Baseball card collectors normally obtain them from other card collectors or from specialized dealers. Some collectors may sell rare baseball cards over the internet and very often on eBay.\n\nRare baseball cards may also be purchased at major baseball card shows. These events are held periodically in different cities, allowing baseball card collectors and dealers to meet. The rare baseball cards do not have a specific price and they are worth what other collectors are willing to pay for, and in order to establish a price, the collector takes into consideration the condition of the card. The price of rare cards depends on the market demand as well. If there are many collectors who are looking to get a specific rare card, the one who gets it is the one who pays more for it regardless of its predetermined value.\n\nDuring the mid-19th century in the United States, baseball and photography were both gaining popularity. As a result, baseball clubs began to pose for group and individual pictures, much like members of other clubs and associations posed. Some of these photographs were printed onto small cards similar to modern wallet photos. As baseball increased in popularity and became a professional sport during the late 1860s, trade cards featuring baseball players appeared. These were used by a variety of companies to promote their business, even if the products being advertised had no connection with baseball. In 1868, Peck and Snyder, a sporting goods store in New York, began producing trade cards featuring baseball teams. Peck and Snyder sold baseball equipment, and the cards were a natural advertising vehicle. The Peck and Snyder cards are sometimes considered the first baseball cards.\n\nTypically, a trade card of the time featured an image on one side and information advertising the business on the other. Advances in color printing increased the appeal of the cards. As a result, cards began to use photographs, either in black-and-white or sepia, or color artwork, which was not necessarily based on photographs. Some early baseball cards could be used as part of a game, which might be either a conventional card game or a simulated baseball game.\n\nBy early 1886, images of baseball players were often included on cigarette cards with cigarette packs and other tobacco products. This was partly for promotional purposes and partly because the card helped protect the cigarettes from damage. By the end of the century, baseball had become so popular that production had spread well beyond the Americas and into the Pacific Isles.\n\nBy the turn of the century, most baseball cards were produced by confectionery companies and tobacco companies. The first major set of the 20th century was issued by the Breisch-Williams Company in 1903. Breisch-Williams was a confectionery company based in Oxford, Pennsylvania. Soon after, several other companies began to advertise their products with baseball cards. This included, but was not limited to, the American Tobacco Company, the American Caramel Company, the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, and Cabañas. a Cuban cigar manufacturer.\n\nThe American Tobacco Company decided to introduce baseball advertising cards into their tobacco products with the issue of the T206 White Border Set in 1909. The cards were included in packs of cigarettes and produced over a three-year period until the ATC was dissolved. The most famous card, and most expensive for the grade, is the Honus Wagner from this set. Another famous one, from 1911, is Joe Tinker.\n\nAt the same time, many other non-tobacco companies started producing and distributing baseball trade cards to the public. Between 1909 and 1911, The American Caramel Company produced the E90-1 series and 1911 saw the introduction of the 'Zee Nut' card. These sets were produced over a 28-year span by the Collins-McCarthy Company of California. By the mid-teens companies such as \"The Sporting News\" magazine began sponsoring card issues. Caramel companies like Rueckheim Bros. & Eckstein were among the first to put 'prizes' in their boxes. In 1914, they produced the first of two Cracker Jack card issues, which featured players from both major leagues as well as players from the short lived Federal League. As the teens drew to a close, the Chicago-based Boston Store Department company also issued a set.\n\nAfter the end of World War I in 1918, baseball card production lulled for a few years as foreign markets were not yet developed and the United States' economy was transitioning away from wartime production. This trend would continue until the late 1930s when the effects of the Great depression finally hit. The twenties produced a second influx of caramel cards, a plethora of postcard issues, and a handful of cards from different regions of the world. During the first two years, an influx of strip cards hit the market. These cards were distributed in long strips and often cut by the consumer or the retailer in the store.\nThe American Caramel Company re-emerged as a producer of baseball cards and started to distribute sets in 1922–1923. Few, if any cards, were produced in the mid-twenties until 1927 when companies like York Caramel of York, Pennsylvania started producing baseball cards. Cards with similar images as the York Caramel set were produced in 1928 for four ice cream companies, Yuengling's, Harrington's, Sweetman and Tharp's.\nIn 1921, the Exhibit Supply Company of Chicago started to release issues on post card stock. Although they are considered a post card issue, many of the cards had statistics and other biographical information on the back.\n\n1920 saw the emergence of the foreign markets after what was essentially an eight-year hiatus. Canadian products found their way to the market, including products branded by the Peggy Popcorn and Food Products company of Winnipeg, Manitoba from 1920 to 1926, and Willard's Chocolate Company from 1923 to 1924. Other Canadian products came from ice cream manufacturers in 1925 and 1927, from Holland Creameries and Honey Boy, respectively. Billiken Cigars, a.k.a. \"Cigarros Billiken\", were distributed in Cuba from 1923 to 1924.\n\nIn the early 1930s, production soared, starting with the 1932 U.S. Caramel set. The popular 1933 Goudey Gum Co. issue, which included cards of Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig, best identifies this era. In contrast to the economical designs common in earlier decades, this card set featured bright, hand-colored player photos on the front. Backs provided brief biographies and personal information such as height, weight, and birthplace. The 240-card set, quite large for the time, included current players, former stars, and prominent minor leaguers. Individual cards measured 2 3/8\" by 2 7/8\", which Goudey printed on 24-card sheets and distributed throughout the year. The bulk of early National Baseball Hall of Fame inductees appear in this set.\n\n1933 also saw the delivery of the World Wide Gum issue. World Wide Gum Co. was based in Montreal and clearly had a close relationship with the Goudey Gum Company, as each of their four issues closely resembled a Goudey contemporary. Goudey, National Chicle, Delong and a handful of other companies were competitive in the bubble gum and baseball card market until World War II began.\n\nAfter 1941, cards would not be produced in any significant number until a few years after the end of the war. Wartime production transitioned into the post-war civilian consumer goods, and in 1948 baseball card production resumed in the U.S. with issues by the Bowman Gum and the Leaf Candy Company. At the same time, Topps Gum Company issued their Magic Photos set, four years before they issued their first \"traditional\" card set. By 1950, Leaf had bowed out of the industry.\n\nJapanese baseball cards became more numerous in 1947 and 1950. The cards were associated with Menko, a Japanese card game. Early baseball menko were often round, and were printed on thick cardboard stock to facilitate the game.\n\nBowman was the major producer of baseball cards from 1948 to 1952. In 1952, Topps began to produce large sets of cards as well. The 1952 Topps set is the most sought-after post-World War set among collectors because of the scarcity of the Mickey Mantle rookie card, the first Mantle card issued by Topps. Although it is not his true rookie card (that honor belongs to his 1951 Bowman card), it is still considered the ultimate card to own of the post-war era.\n\nTopps and Bowman then competed for customers and for the rights to any baseball players' likeness. Two years later, Leaf stopped producing cards. In 1956, Topps bought out Bowman and enjoyed a largely unchallenged position in the U.S. market for the next two decades. From 1952–1969, Topps always offered five or six card nickel wax packs and in 1952–1964, also offered one card penny packs.\n\nIn the 1970s Topps increased the cost of wax packs from 10–15 cents (with 8–14 cards depending on year) and also offered cello packs (typically around 18–33 cards) for 25 cents. Rack packs containing 39–54 cards could also be had for between 39–59 cents per pack.\n\nThis did not prevent a large number of regional companies from producing successful runs of trading cards. Additionally, several U.S. companies attempted to enter into the market at a national level. In 1959, Fleer, a gum company, signed Ted Williams to an exclusive contract and sold a set of cards featuring him. Williams retired in 1960, forcing Fleer to produce a set of \"Baseball Greats\" cards featuring retired players. Like the Topps cards, they were sold with gum. In 1963, Fleer produced a 67 card set of active players (this time with a cherry cookie in the packs instead of gum), which was not successful, as most players were contractually obligated to appear exclusively in Topps trading card products. Post Cereals issued cards on cereal boxes from 1960 to 1963 and sister company Jell-O issued virtually identical cards on the backs of its packaging in 1962 and 1963.\n\nIn 1965, Topps licensed production to Canadian candy maker O-Pee-Chee. The O-Pee-Chee sets were essentially identical to the Topps sets until 1969, when the backs of the cards were branded O-Pee-Chee. In 1970, due to federal legislation, O-Pee-Chee was compelled to add French-language text to the backs of its baseball cards.\n\nIn the 1970s, several companies took advantage of a new licensing scheme, not to take on Topps, but to create premiums. Kellogg's began to produce 3D-cards inserted with cereal and Hostess printed cards on packages of its baked goods.\n\nIn 1976, a company called TCMA, which mainly produced minor league baseball cards, produced a set of 630 cards consisting of Major League Ball players. The cards were produced under the name the Sports Stars Publishing Company, or SSPC. TCMA published a baseball card magazine named Collectors Quarterly which it used to advertise its set offering it directly via mail order. The cards were available directly from TCMA, and were not made available again, like other sets issued by TCMA, due to a manufacturers' agreement.\n\nFleer sued Topps in 1975 to break the company's monopoly on baseball cards and won. In 1981, Fleer and Donruss issued baseball card sets, both with gum. An appeal of the Fleer lawsuit by Topps clarified that Topps' exclusive rights only applied to cards sold with gum. After the appeal, Fleer and Donruss continued to produce cards issued without gum; Fleer included team logo stickers with their card packs, while Donruss introduced \"Hall of Fame Diamond Kings\" puzzles and included three puzzle pieces in each pack. In 1992, Topps' gum and Fleer's logo stickers were discontinued, with Donruss discontinuing the puzzle piece inserts the following year. With the issuance of a very popular and rare (compared to other sets at the time) set in 1984, Donruss began to take hold as one of the most popular card brands in competition with Topps. In particular, several rookie cards in the 1984 Donruss set are still considered the most desirable cards from that year of any brand (especially the Don Mattingly rookie card). Also in 1984, two monthly price guides came on the scene. \"Tuff Stuff\" and \"Beckett Baseball Card Monthly\", published by Dr. James Beckett, attempted to track the approximate market value of several types of trading cards.\n\nMore collectors entered the hobby during the 1980s. As a result, manufacturers such as Score (which later became Pinnacle Brands) and Upper Deck entered the marketplace in 1988 and 1989 respectively. Upper Deck introduced several innovative production methods including tamper-proof foil packaging, hologram-style logos, and higher quality card stock. This style of production allowed Upper Deck to charge a premium for its product, becoming the first mainstream baseball card product to have a suggested retail price of 99 cents per pack. In 1989, Upper Deck's first set included the Ken Griffey, Jr. rookie card. The card became highly sought-after until Griffey's persistent injury troubles caused his performance level to decline.\nThe other major card companies followed suit and created card brands with higher price points. Topps resurrected the Bowman brand name in 1989. Topps produced a Stadium Club issue in 1991. 1992 proved to be a breakthrough year as far as the price of baseball cards was concerned, with the previous 50-cents per pack price being replaced by higher price points, overall higher-grade cardboard stock, and the widespread introduction of limited edition \"inserts\" across all product lines. 1992 was the beginning of the collectors' chase for \"gold foil,\" which was commonly stamped on the limited edition \"insert\" cards. Notable examples from 1992's \"insert\" craze include Donruss Diamond Kings, which included gold-foil accents for the first time ever, and Fleer's host of gold foil-accented \"insert\" cards, including All-Stars and Rookie Sensations. 1992 was also the first year that \"parallel\" cards were introduced. In 1992, Topps produced Topps Gold \"insert\" cards of each card in the standard base set. The \"parallel\" Topps Gold cards had the player's name and team stamped in a banner of \"gold foil\" on the card front. The \"parallel\" moniker became popular to describe these cards because each and every card in the standard base set had an accompanying \"insert\" variation. In 1993, the card companies stepped up the \"premium\" card genre with \"super premium\" card sets, with Fleer debuting its \"Flair\" set and Topps debuting its \"Topps Finest\" set. Topps Finest was the first set to utilize refractors, a technology that utilized a reflective foil technology that gave the card a shiny \"rainbow\" appearance that proved extremely popular among hobbyists. Other notable \"premium\" card sets from the 1990s are as follows: Donruss issued its Leaf brand in 1990; Fleer followed with Fleer Ultra sets in 1991; and Score issued Pinnacle brand cards in 1992.\n\nStarting in 1997 with Upper Deck, companies began inserting cards with swatches of uniforms and pieces of game-used as part of a plan to generate interest. Card companies obtained all manner of memorabilia, from uniform jerseys and pants, to bats, gloves, caps, and even bases and defunct stadium seats to feed this new hobby demand. It is also in 1997 that the first \"one-of-one\" cards were released by Fleer, beginning with the 1997 Flair Showcase \"Masterpieces\" (the Ultra set would begin to include purple 1-of-1 masterpieces the following year). Both kinds of inserts remain popular staples in the hobby today.\n\nThe process and cost of multi-tiered printings, monthly set issues, licensing fees, and player-spokesman contracts made for a difficult market. Pinnacle Brands folded after 1998. Pacific, which acquired full licensing in 1994, ceased production in 2001. In 2005, Fleer went bankrupt and was bought out by Upper Deck, and Donruss lost the MLB license in 2006 (they also did not produce baseball cards in 1999 and 2000). At that time, the MLBPA limited the number of companies that would produce baseball cards to offset the glut in product, and to consolidate the market. As a result of the measure that included revoking the MLB/MLBPA production licenses from Donruss, only two companies remained; Topps and Upper Deck.\n\nTopps and Upper Deck are the only two companies that retained production licenses for baseball cards of major league players. In a move to expand their market influence, Upper Deck purchased the Fleer brand and the remnants of its production inventory. After purchasing Fleer, Upper Deck took over production of the remaining products that were slated to be released. Upper Deck continues to issue products with the Fleer name, while Topps continues to release Bowman and Bazooka card products. Topps is also the only company that continues to produce pre-collated factory sets of cards.\n\nCard companies are trying to maintain a sizable hobby base in a variety of ways. Especially prominent is a focus on transitioning the cards to an online market. Both Topps and Upper Deck have issued cards that require online registration, while Topps has targeted the investment-minded collector with its eTopps offering of cards that are maintained and traded at its website. Also, since the late 1990s, hobby retail shops and trade-show dealers found their customer base declining, with their buyers now having access to more items and better prices on the Internet. As more collectors and dealers purchased computers and began trusting the Internet as a \"safe\" venue to buy and sell, the transformation from the traditional retail shops and shows to Internet transactions changed the nature of the hobby.\n\nDuring the same time period, MLBPA also introduced a new guideline for players to attain a rookie card. For years, players had been highlighted in previous sets as a rookie while still in the Minor Leagues. Such players would sometimes remain in the Minor Leagues for considerable time before attaining Major League status, making a player's rookie card released years before their first game as a major leaguer. The new guideline requires players to be part of a Major League team roster before a rookie card would be released in their name, and a designated \"rookie card\" logo printed on the face of the card. The rookie card logo shows the words \"rookie card\" over a baseball bat and home plate with the Major League Baseball logo in the top left corner.\n\nBaseball cards garnered national media attention again in early 2007, when it was found that Topps' new Derek Jeter card had allegedly been altered just prior to final printing. A reported prankster inside the company had inserted a photo of Mickey Mantle into the Yankees' dugout and another showing a smiling President George W. Bush waving from the stands. Topps Spokesman Clay Luraschi later admitted that it was done on purpose by the Topps creative department.\n\nIn February 2007, the hobby's most expensive card, a near mint/mint professionally graded and authenticated T206 Honus Wagner, was sold to a private collector for $2.35 million. The card was sold again later that same year for a record-setting $2.8 million.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, baseball cards were always made from cardboard. Now, companies use other materials that they claim can withstand being soaked in salt water.\n\nIn 2012, Topps created the Topps Bunt digital trading card app. The app has gained over 2 million users from more than 50 countries.\n\nBaseball cards in the United States have gone through numerous changes in everything from production and marketing to distribution and use. The earliest cards were targeted primarily at adults as they were produced and associated by photographers selling services and tobacco companies in order to market their wares. By the early 1910s, many cards were issued as part of games and confection companies began to distribute their own card sets.\n\nThe market in the United States has been particularly affected by issues both sports and non-sports related. Economic effects of World War I, World War II, and the Great Depression have all had a major impact on the production of cards. For example, World War I suppressed baseball card production to the point where only a handful of sets were produced until the economy had transitioned away from wartime industrialization.\n\nThe 1994 players' strike caused a decline in interest and industry consolidation. Yet, with the advent and acceptance of third party companies bringing greater objectivity in the grading of baseball cards (coupled with online marketing), the \"vintage\" baseball card business has become quite popular again, with sales in the multi-millions of dollars recorded every year for at least ten years.\n\nTopps' purchase of Bowman led to a stranglehold on player contracts. Since Topps had no competition and there was no easy way for others to break into the national market, the company had a de facto monopoly. However, several regional sets featuring players from local teams, both major league and minor league, were issued by various companies.\n\nOver the years, there was also a great deal of resistance from other companies. In 1967, Topps faced an attempt to undermine its position from the Major League Baseball Players Association, the League's nascent players' union. Struggling to raise funds, the MLBPA discovered that it could generate significant income by pooling the publicity rights of its members and offering companies a group license to use their images on various products. After initially putting players on Coca-Cola bottlecaps, the union concluded that the Topps contracts did not pay players adequately for their rights.\n\nFleer even filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission alleging that Topps was engaged in unfair competition through its aggregation of exclusive contracts. A hearing examiner ruled against Topps in 1965, but the Commission reversed this decision on appeal. The Commission concluded that because the contracts only covered the sale of cards with gum, competition was still possible by selling cards with other small, low-cost products. However, Fleer chose not to pursue such options and instead sold its remaining player contracts to Topps for $395,000 in 1966.\n\nSoon after, MLBPA executive director Marvin Miller then approached Joel Shorin, the president of Topps, about renegotiating these contracts. At this time, Topps had every major league player under contract, generally for five years plus renewal options, so Shorin declined. After continued discussions went nowhere, before the 1968 season, the union asked its members to stop signing renewals on these contracts, and offered Fleer the exclusive rights to market cards. Although Fleer declined the proposal, by the end of 1973, Topps had agreed to double its payments to each player from $125 to $250, and also to begin paying players a percentage of Topps' overall sales. The figure for individual player contracts has since increased to $500. Since then, Topps used individual player contracts as the basis for its baseball cards.\n\nIn April 1975, Fleer asked for Topps to waive its exclusive rights and allow Fleer to produce stickers, stamps, or other small items featuring active baseball players. Topps refused, and Fleer then sued both Topps and the MLBPA to break the Topps monopoly. After several years of litigation, the court ordered the union to offer group licenses for baseball cards to companies other than Topps. Fleer and another company, Donruss, were thus allowed to begin making cards in 1981. Fleer's legal victory was overturned after one season, but they continued to manufacture cards, substituting stickers with team logos for gum. Donruss distributed their cards with a Jigsaw puzzle piece.\n\nThe history of baseball cards in Canada is somewhat similar to that of baseball cards in the United States. The first cards were trade cards, then cards issued with tobacco products and later candies and gum. World Wide Gum and O-Pee-Chee both produced major sets during the 1930s.\n\nIn 1952, Topps started distributing its American made cards in Canada. In 1965 O-Pee-Chee re-entered the baseball card market producing a licensed version of the Topps set. From 1970 until the last Topps based set was produced in 1992 the cards were bi-lingual French/English to comply with Canadian law\n\nFrom 1985 until 1988, Donruss issued a parallel Canadian set under the Leaf name. The set was basically identical to the Donruss issues of the same years however it was bi-lingual. All the Leaf sets were produced in the United States.\n\nThere were several promotional issues issued by Canadian firms since Major League Baseball began in Canada in 1969. There were also several public safety sets issued, most notably the Toronto Blue Jays fire safety sets of the 1980s and early 1990s and the Toronto Public Libraries \"Reading is fun\" set of 1998 and 1999. These sets were distributed in the Toronto area. The cards were monolingual and only issued in English.\n\nThe first baseball cards appeared in Japan in the late 19th century. Unlike American cards of the same era, the cards utilized traditional Japanese pen and ink illustrations. In the 1920s, black-and-white photo postcards were issued, but illustrated cards were the norm until the 1950s. That decade brought about cards which incorporated photos of players, mostly in black and white. Menko cards also became popular at the time.\n\nNPB branded baseball cards are currently widely available in Japanese toy stores, convenience stores, sports stores, and as bonus items included in certain packages of potato chips.\n\nIn 1987 and 1988 the American company Topps issued two series of American baseball cards featuring cards from American and Canadian Major League Baseball teams in the UK. The full color cards were produced by Topps Republic of Ireland subsidiary company and contained explanations of baseball terms. Given baseball's lack of popularity in the United Kingdom, the issues were unsuccessful.\n\nTopps issued licensed sets in Venezuela from 1959 to 1977. Most of the set had Spanish in place of the English text on the cards and the sets included winter league players. There were locally produced cards depicting players from the winter leagues produced by Offset Venezolana C.A., Sport Grafico, and others which were in production until the late 1990s.\n\nIn Cuba, sets were issued first in the early 1900s. By the 1930s various candy, gum and chocolate makers were offering cards, most notably Baguer Chocolate. The post-World War Two era had cards issued by magazines, candy makers, Coca-Cola, and of course a gum company. In post revolution Cuba, baseball cards were still issued.\n\nSeveral sets of Mexican League baseball cards have been issued in the past few years.\n\nAmerican made cards of Major League Baseball players-Puerto Rican and internationals-are widely available in Puerto Rico.\n\nAustralian produced baseball cards were first released in 1990 by the then newly created trading card company Futera. These cards featured players from the newly created Australian Baseball League. Subsequent baseball cards were released annually in boxed sets or foil packs until 1996 when declining interest saw production cease. No new baseball cards were released in Australia until Select Australia released six team sets of cards during the 2012-13 Australian Baseball League season. This was then followed up by Dingo Trading Cards releasing multiple baseball card team sets during the 2013-14 Australian Baseball League season.\n\nPrice guides are used mostly to list the prices of different baseball cards in many different conditions. One of the most famous price guides is the Beckett price guide series. The Beckett price guide is a graded card price guide, which means it is graded by a 1–10 scale, one being the lowest possible score and ten the highest. In addition, Professional Sports Authenticator PSA) grades cards 1-10, and can authenticate autographs as well.\n\nPrice guides have been evolving since the boom in online trading of baseball cards, there now exist options like PriceGuide.Cards or the free site cardspriceguide.com which track completed online sales. This new advent is providing collectors with market determined prices of their cards.\n\n"}
{"id": "27249357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27249357", "title": "Beijing Planetarium", "text": "Beijing Planetarium\n\nThe Beijing Planetarium () is an astronomy museum in Beijing, China.\n\nThe Planetarium comprises two main buildings, Building A & B. Building A, which was built in 1957, contains the Celestial Theater, an Eastern Exhibition Hall and a Western Exhibition Hall. It was the first large-scale planetarium in China, and at one time the only planetarium in Asia. Building B contains a digital space theater, 3D and 4D theaters, several exhibition halls and two observatories.\n\n"}
{"id": "33343400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33343400", "title": "Business correspondence", "text": "Business correspondence\n\nBusiness correspondence means the exchange of information in a written format for the process of business activities. Business correspondence can take place between organizations, within organizations or between the customers and the organization. The correspondence refers to the written communication between persons. Hence oral communication or face to face communication is not a business correspondance.\n\n\nBusiness letters are the most formal method of communication following specific formats. They are addressed to a particular person or organization. A good business letter follows the seven C's of communication. The different types of business letters used based on their context are as follows,\nOfficial letters can be handwritten or printed. Modernisation has led to the usage of new means of business correspondence such as E-mail and Fax.\n\nEmail is the latest formal method of business communication. It is the most widely used method of written communication usually done in a conversational style. It is used when there is a need to communicate to large audience in an organization.\n\nMemorandum is a document used for internal communication within an organization. Memos may be drafted by management and addressed to other employees, and it is sent with the money draft. Memos are sent to several people in a team when important business matters need to be updated to them or to a single person to have a written record of the informations.\n"}
{"id": "14322444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14322444", "title": "Comparative advertising", "text": "Comparative advertising\n\nComparative advertising or advertising war is an advertisement in which a particular product, or service, specifically mentions a competitor by name for the express purpose of showing why the competitor is inferior to the product naming it. Also referred to as \"knocking copy\", it is loosely defined as advertising where “the advertised brand is explicitly compared with one or more competing brands and the comparison is obvious to the audience.”\n\nThis should not be confused with parody advertisements, where a fictional product is being advertised for the purpose of poking fun at the particular advertisement, nor should it be confused with the use of a coined brand name for the purpose of comparing the product without actually naming an actual competitor. (\"Wikipedia tastes better and is less filling than the Encyclopedia Galactica.\")\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) defined comparative advertising as “advertisement that compares alternative brands on objectively measurable attributes or price, and identifies the alternative brand by name, illustration or other distinctive information.” This definition was used in the case Gillette Australia Pty Ltd v Energizer Australia Pty Ltd. Similarly, the Law Council of Australia recently suggested that comparative advertising refers to “advertising which include reference to a competitor’s trademark in a way which does not impute proprietorship in the mark to the advertiser.”\n\nComparative advertisements could be either indirectly or directly comparative, positive or negative, and seeks “to associate or differentiate the two competing brands”. Different countries apply differing views regarding the laws on comparative advertising.\n\nThe earliest court case concerning comparative advertising dates back to 1910 in the United States – Saxlehner v Wagner. Prior to the 1970s, comparative advertising was deemed unfeasible due to related risks. For instance, comparative advertising could invite misidentification of products, potential legal issues, and may even win public sympathy for their competitors as victims.\n\nIn 1972, the FTC began to encourage advertisers to make comparison with named competitors, with the broad, public welfare objective of creating more informative advertising. The FTC argued that this form of advertising could also stimulate comparison shopping, encourage product improvement and innovation, and foster a positive competitive environment. However, studies have shown that while comparative advertisements had increased since 1960, the relative amount of comparative advertising is still small.\n\nPrior to 1997, many European countries severely limited comparative claims as an advertising practice. For example, in Germany comparisons in advertising had since the 1930's been largely prohibited as an anti-competitive practice, with very limited exceptions for cases where the advertiser had a good reason for presenting a critical claim, and reference to a competitor was necessary in order to present that claim. Importantly, this only applied to \"critical\" claims - claims of equivalence were completely prohibited. A similar approach had been adopted in France, where comparative advertising was commonly seen as disparaging of competitors. However, the legalisation of comparative advertising in France in 1992, opened the door to a general legalisation of comparative advertising through EU law, which had first been proposed by the European Commission in 1978. The result was the adoption of Directive 97/55/EC, which came into force in the year 2000. The relevant provisions are now contained in Directive 2006/114/EC.\n\nThis Directive sets out rules that comparative advertising must comply with in order to be considered permissible. These include the requirements that the comparison concern goods and services that meet the same purpose, that it objectively compare the relevant characteristics of the products concerned and that it not cause confusion or denigrate the trademarks and other distinguishing signs of competitors. The Directive prohibits comparisons that take unfair advantage of the reputation of a competitor's distinguishing marks, or present goods or services as imitations of products covered by a protected trade mark or trade name. Additionally, any comparison aimed at promoting goods bearing a protected designation of origin must refer exclusively to other goods bearing the same designation. Directive 2006/114/EC constitutes a total harmonisation of the rules on comparative advertising, meaning that the Member States are neither allowed to permit comparisons that breach the requirements of the Directive, nor prohibit ones that do. \n\nFurther, while trademark rights can in principle be used to prevent comparative advertising that makes unauthorised use of a competitor's trademark, this is not the case where the comparative advertisement complies with all the requirements of Directive 2006/114/EC. Legitimate comparative advertising must therefore be seen as an exception to the exclusive rights of the trademark proprietor. However, the trademark proprietor can, thanks to the prohibition on taking unfair advantage of a trademark's reputation, oppose the use of their trademark where it is not aimed at distinguishing the products of the advertiser and trademark proprietor and to highlight their differences objectively, but rather at riding on the coat-tails of that mark in order to benefit from its reputation.\n\nThe requirements set out by the Directive have resulted in some controversy. This is particularly true of the \"per se\" prohibition on comparisons presenting goods and services as imitations of trademarked products. In this regard, EU law contrasts starkly with the US approach; the US courts have long held that traders are allowed to the trademarked names of products they have imitated in advertising. In contrast, in L'Oréal and others v. Bellure, the Court of Justice held that smell-alike perfumes marketed through comparison lists breached this condition. This decision was criticised both by the English courts and by scholars, who have considered that this places unjustified limits on advertising acts that are otherwise fully legal, such as copying that does not infringe intellectual property rights. \n\nIn the UK, most of the use of competitor’s registered trademark in a comparative advertisement was an infringement of the registration up till the end of 1994. However, the laws on comparative advertising were harmonized in 2000. The current rules on comparative advertising are regulated by a series of EU Directives. The Business Protection from Misleading Marketing Regulations 2008 implements provisions of Directive (EC) 2006/114 in the UK.\n\nOne of the classic cases of comparative advertising in the UK was the O2 v Hutchison case. The European Court of Justice (ECJ) held that there could have been a trademark infringement when a comparative advertiser used the registered trademark for the advertiser’s own goods and services. It was also held that a trademark proprietor could not prevent a competitor’s use of a sign similar or identical to his mark in a comparative advertisement, which satisfies all the conditions of the Comparative Advertising Directive. If the Advocate General's decision in the O2 case were followed by the ECJ, competitors will not be able to use trademark legislation either to prevent a comparative advertisement through an injunction or to charge in respect of its use. Conversely, in British Airways plc v Ryanair Ltd. a lenient approach was adopted by the UK courts. The use of competitors’ trademarks was no longer restricted for businesses competing within an industry, provided that compliance of the conditions set out in the legislation were performed. This meant that businesses are able to use the trademarks of other companies and trade names to distinguish the relative merits of their own products and services over those of their competitors.\n\nThe FTC and the National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus, Inc. (NAD), govern the laws of comparative advertising in the United States including the treatment of comparative advertising claims. FTC stated that comparative advertising could benefit consumers and encourages comparative advertising, provided that the comparisons are “clearly identified, truthful, and non-deceptive”. Although comparative advertising is encouraged, NAD has stated “claims that expressly or implicitly disparage a competing product should be held to the highest level of scrutiny in order to ensure that they are truthful, accurate, and narrowly drawn.” Another major law is the trademark protective Lanham Act, which states that one could incur liability when the message of the comparative advertisement is untrue or uncertain, but has the intention to deceive consumers through the implied message conveyed.\n\nIn Australia, no specific law governs comparative advertising although certain cases regarding this matter have occurred. Comparative advertising that is truthful, and does not lead to confusion is permitted.\n\nGenerally, Australian advertisers should make sure that the following are complied when exercising comparative advertising to avoid breaches regarding misleading advertising under Australia Consumer Law:\n\n\nThe law in Hong Kong regarding comparative advertising is the law that existed in the UK prior to the enactment of the UK Act 1994. Hong Kong has no legislation exclusively intended at limiting false or misleading advertisements. Still, the Trade Descriptions Ordinance (Cap 362) bans the use of false trade descriptions in advertisements. The tort of trade libel also exists to deal with false or misleading advertisements designed to injure the competitor. Consumer Council may have the authority to publish information with a perspective to amending false or misleading advertisements, while the Association of Accredited Advertising Agencies of Hong Kong have the authority to take action against members who organize advertisements that are inaccurate.\n\nIn Argentina, there is no specific statute dealing with comparative advertising (so it is not forbidden), but there are clear jurisprudential rules based on unfair competition law. If in some manner an advertisement is proven to be unfair or exceeds ethical standards by hiding the truth or omitting some essential aspect of the comparison, it is probable that an injunction will be granted and that the plaintiff will be able to obtain a final decision declaring the advertising illegal.\n\nNumerous cases follow international precedent in referring to the requirements of the European Union Directive on comparative advertising. By following these criteria, Argentine courts have developed standards very similar to European regulation. It is as if the judges wanted to validate the law created by the Courts with an external source. Similar conclusions reached elsewhere indicate the existence of universally accepted principles that accept that comparing products in commercial advertisements should be lawful.\n\nIn Brazil, the allow comparative advertising with certain restrictions. Its primary purpose shall be the clarification or consumer’s protection; it shall have as basic principle the objectiveness of the comparison since subjective data, psychological or emotionally based data does not constitute a valid comparison basis for consumers; the purposed or implemented comparison shall be capable of being supported byevidence; in the case of consumption goods, the comparison shall be made with models manufactured in the same year and no comparison shall be made between products manufactured in different years, unless it is only a reference to show evolution, in which case the evolution shall be clearly demonstrated; there shall be no confusion between the products and competitor’s brands; there shall be no unfair competition, denigration of the product’s image or another company’s product; and there shall be no unreasonable use of the corporate image or goodwill of third parties.\n\nLikewise, the majority of the Brazilian authors is inclined to say that its legitimacy depends to meet certain requirements, which, in general, would be stipulated by Article 3a of Directive 84/450/EEC \n\nIn an early Mercosur's rules through Resolution 126/96.\n\nComparative advertising has been increasingly implemented through the years, and the types of comparative advertising range from comparing a single attribute dimension, comparing an attribute unique to the target and absent in the referent and comparisons involving attributes unique to both brands. The contributing factors to the effectiveness of comparative advertising include believability, which refers to the extent a consumer can rely on the information provided in comparative advertisements, the level of involvement, and the convenience in evaluation, provided by spoon feeding the consumer with information that does not require extra effort in recall.\n\nComparative advertising is generally coupled with negativity, as evidenced by early industry condemnation. Stating reasons such as participation in comparative advertising damaged the honour and credibility of advertising. Studies have suggested that negative information can be stored more effectively, thus generating the impact that any advertisement is purposed for, and more importantly, strong recall. On the contrary, such negativity can either be transferred directly to the brand and the consumer’s impression of the brand, various studies through the years have proven that comparative advertising has been responded to negatively.\n\nComparative advertising has been used effectively by companies like The National Australia Bank (NAB), and its “break up” campaign has made such an impact it has won an award from Cannes, and a substantial increase in its consumer interest. Internationally acclaimed Apple Inc. has effectively utilized its Mac vs PC advertisements as part of its marketing efforts to increase its market share over the years. Such companies prove the academic view that comparative advertising is more successful when used by established brands, justified by the credibility and attention an established brand brings. Other famous examples include L’Oreal SA v Bellure NV and Coca Cola v Pepsi. Comparative advertising has to be executed with caution and deep consideration for the targeted markets as the novelty of the concept affects the effectiveness of the stipulated campaigns.\n\nIn the 1980s, during what has been referred to as the cola wars, soft-drink manufacturer Pepsi ran a series of advertisements where people, caught on hidden camera, in a blind taste test, chose Pepsi over rival Coca-Cola.\nThe use of comparative advertising has been well established in political campaigns, where typically one candidate will run ads where the record of the other candidate is displayed, for the purpose of disparaging the other candidate. The most famous of these type ads, which only ran once on TV, consisted of a child picking daisies in a field, while a voice which sounded like Barry Goldwater performed a countdown to zero before the launch of a nuclear weapon which explodes in a mushroom cloud. The ad, \"Daisy\", was produced by Lyndon B. Johnson's campaign in an attempt to prevent Goldwater from either winning the nomination of his party or being selected.\n\nAnother example took place throughout the late 1980s between the bitter rivals Nintendo and Sega. \"Genesis does what Nintendon't\" immediately became a catchphrase following the release of the Sega Genesis (known as Mega Drive in PAL countries).\n\nA 30-second commercial promoting sustainability, showing soda bottles exploding each time a person makes a drink using his Sodastream machine, was banned in the United Kingdom in 2012. Clearcast, the organization that preapproves TV advertising in the U.K., explained that they \"thought it was a denigration of the bottled drinks market.\" The same ad, crafted by Alex Bogusky, ran in the United States, Sweden, Australia, and other countries. An appeal by Sodastream to reverse Clearcast's decision to censor the commercial was rejected. A similar ad was expected to air during Super Bowl XLVII in February 2013 but was banned by CBS for jabbing at Coke and Pepsi (two of CBS's largest sponsors).\n\nIn 2012, Microsoft's Bing (formerly MSN Search) began to run a campaign about which search engine they prefer as it compared Bing to Google, and that more people preferred Bing over Google. The campaign was titled \"Bing It On\".\n"}
{"id": "13707375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13707375", "title": "Comparison of JavaScript-based source code editors", "text": "Comparison of JavaScript-based source code editors\n\nThis article provides basic feature comparison between some of the JavaScript-based source code editors available today.\n\nFeature testing was performed with Firefox 3.0.6 against the current demo version, and results may not match those in other browsers or downloadable versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "16660329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16660329", "title": "Comparison of X window managers", "text": "Comparison of X window managers\n\nThis article compares variety of different X window managers. For an introduction to the topic, see X Window System.\n\n"}
{"id": "24210193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24210193", "title": "Comparison of iSCSI targets", "text": "Comparison of iSCSI targets\n\nAn iSCSI target is a storage resource located on an iSCSI server (more generally, one of potentially many instances of iSCSI storage nodes running on that server) as a \"target\". An iSCSI target usually represents hard disk storage, often accessed using an Ethernet-based network.\n\nSoftware packages are available to allow a customer to configure a computer with disk drives and a network interface to be an iSCSI target.\n"}
{"id": "254151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254151", "title": "Concise Oxford English Dictionary", "text": "Concise Oxford English Dictionary\n\nThe Concise Oxford English Dictionary (officially titled The Concise Oxford Dictionary until 2002, and widely abbreviated COD or COED) is probably the best-known of the 'smaller' Oxford dictionaries. The latest edition of the \"Concise Oxford English Dictionary\" contains over 240,000 entries and 1,728 pages (concise only compared to the \"OED\" at over 21,000 pages). Its 12th edition, published in 2011, is used by both the United Nations and NATO as the current authority for spellings in documents written in English for international use. It is available as an e-book for a variety of handheld device platforms. In addition to providing information for general use, it documents local variations such as United States and United Kingdom usage.\n\nIt was started as a derivative of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED\"), although section S–Z had to be written before the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" reached that stage. However, starting from the 10th edition, it is based on the \"Oxford Dictionary of English\" (also known as the \"NODE\") rather than the \"OED\". The most recent edition is the 12th edition, published in 2011.\n\nUntil 2000, it was the dictionary used on the UK game show \"Countdown\".\n\n\n\n\nContents are derived from \"New Oxford American Dictionary\".\n\n\nIt is a compilation of both \"Concise Oxford American Dictionary\" and \"Concise Oxford American Thesaurus\".\n\n\"Australian Concise Oxford Dictionary\" contains entries from contemporary Australian and international English. Edited by Dr Bruce Moore, it incorporates entries from \"Oxford English Dictionary\", \"Concise Oxford Dictionary\", and the \"Australian National Dictionary\".\n\n\n\n\"Concise Oxford English-Chinese Dictionary\" (牛津現代英漢雙解大詞典/牛津现代英汉双解大词典) is published by Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press in China. Online version became available in 2011.\n\n\"Warmth Concise Oxford English-Chinese Dictionary\" (牛津現代簡明英漢雙解辭典) is published by warmth Co/Warmth Publishing Group in Taiwan.\n\nIt is a two-way dictionary. Chinese translations are in simplified Chinese, with traditional Chinese used in comments. Chinese pronunciation is in Mandarin.\n\nIt is a version of \"Oxford Concise English-Chinese Chinese-English Dictionary\" published by The Commercial Press. Publication deal between Oxford University Press and The Commercial Press was approved in 1983.\n\n\nEnglish-German dictionaries are two-way dictionaries published in association with Duden.\n\n\nIt is an electronic version of Concise Oxford-Duden German Dictionary.\n\n\n\nIt is a two-way dictionary.\n\nIt is a two-way dictionary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19134930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19134930", "title": "DNSCurve", "text": "DNSCurve\n\nDNSCurve is a proposed new secure protocol for the Domain Name System (DNS), designed by Daniel J. Bernstein.\n\nDNSCurve uses Curve25519 elliptic curve cryptography to establish keys used by Salsa20, paired with the message authentication code (MAC) function Poly1305, to encrypt and authenticate DNS packets between resolvers and authoritative servers. Public keys for remote authoritative servers are placed in NS records, so recursive resolvers know whether the server supports DNSCurve. Keys begin with the magic string codice_1 and are followed by a 51-byte Base32 encoding of the server's 255-bit public key. E.g., in BIND format:\n\nThe resolver then sends to the server a packet containing its DNSCurve public key, a 96-bit nonce, and a cryptographic box containing the query. The cryptographic box is created using the resolver's private key, the server's public key, and the nonce. The response from the server contains a different 96-bit nonce and its own cryptographic box containing the answer to the query.\n\nThe cryptographic tools used in DNSCurve are the same used in CurveCP, a UDP-based protocol which is similar to TCP but uses elliptic-curve cryptography to encrypt and authenticate data. An analogy is that while DNSSEC is like signing a webpage with Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), CurveCP and DNSCurve are like encrypting and authenticating the channel using Transport Layer Security (TLS). Just as PGP-signed webpages can be sent over an encrypted channel using SSL, DNSSEC data can be protected using DNSCurve.\n\nDNSCurve claims advantages over previous DNS services of:\n\nDNSCurve uses 256-bit elliptic-curve cryptography, which NIST estimates to be roughly equivalent to 3072-bit RSA. ECRYPT reports a similar equivalence. It uses per-query public-key crypto (like SSH and SSL), and 96-bit nonces to protect against replay attacks. Adam Langley, security officer at Google, says \"With very high probability, no one will ever solve a single instance of Curve25519 without a large, quantum computer.\"\n\nAdam Langley has posted speed tests on his personal website showing Curve25519, used by DNSCurve, to be the fastest among elliptic curves tested. According to the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), elliptic curve cryptography offers vastly superior performance over RSA and Diffie–Hellman at a geometric rate as key sizes increase.\n\nDNSCurve first gained recursive support in dnscache via a patch by Matthew Dempsky. Dempsky also has a GitHub repository which includes Python DNS lookup tools and a forwarder in C. Adam Langley has a GitHub repository as well. There is an authoritative forwarder called CurveDNS which allows DNS administrators to protect existing installations without patching. OpenDNS has released DNSCrypt to protect the channel between OpenDNS's users and its recursive resolvers. Jan Mojžíš has released curveprotect, a software suite which implements DNSCurve and CurveCP protection for common services like DNS, SSH, HTTP, and SMTP.\n\nOpenDNS, which has 50 million users, announced support for DNSCurve on its recursive resolvers on February 23, 2010.\nThen on December 6, 2011, OpenDNS announced a new tool, called DNSCrypt. DNSCrypt protects the channel between OpenDNS and its users. No equally large authoritative DNS providers have yet deployed DNSCurve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54967141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54967141", "title": "Dionysus in comparative mythology", "text": "Dionysus in comparative mythology\n\nDionysus, the god of wine, theatre, and ecstasy in ancient Greek religion, has been compared to many other deities, both by his classical worshippers and later scholars. These deities include figures outside of ancient Greek religion, such as Jesus, Osiris, Shiva, and Tammuz, as well as figures inside of ancient Greek religion, such as Hades.\n\nIn Plutarch's symposiacs, it is stated that there are those who believe Adonis to be the same as Dionysus, however, Plutarch acknowledges that there are others who hold them to be lovers.\n\nComparisons have been made between Jesus Christ and Dionysus since ancient times. Justin the Martyr, in his \"First Apology\", states that the cult of Dionysus was mimicking the cult of Christ, through its use of wine, donkeys, death and resurrection\n\nIn his Histories, Herodotus says that many believe that Osiris is the Egyptian form of Dionysus.\n"}
{"id": "1005736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1005736", "title": "Electronic article", "text": "Electronic article\n\nElectronic articles are articles in scholarly journals or magazines that can be accessed via electronic transmission. They are a specialized form of electronic document, with a specialized content, purpose, format, metadata, and availability–they consist of individual articles from scholarly journals or magazines (and now sometimes popular magazines), they have the purpose of providing material for academic research and study, they are formatted approximately like printed journal articles, the metadata is entered into specialized databases, such as the Directory of Open Access Journals as well as the databases for the discipline, and they are predominantly available through academic libraries and special libraries, generally at a fixed charge. \n\nElectronic articles can be found in online-only journals (par excellence), but in the 21st century they have also become common as online versions of articles that also appear in printed journals. The practice of publishing of an electronic version of an article before it later appears in print is sometimes called epub ahead of print, particularly in PubMed.\n\nThe term can also be used for the electronic versions of less formal publications, such as online archives, working paper archives from universities, government agencies, private and public think tanks and institutes and private websites. In many academic areas, specialized bibliographic databases are available to find their online content.\n\nMost commercial sites are subscription-based, or allow pay-per-view access. Many universities subscribe to electronic journals to provide access to their students and faculty, and it is generally also possible for individuals to subscribe. An increasing number of journals are now available with open access, requiring no subscription. Most working paper archives and articles on personal homepages are free, as are collections in institutional repositories and subject repositories.\n\nThe most common formats of transmission are HTML, PDF and, in specialized fields like mathematics and physics, TeX and PostScript.\n\n"}
{"id": "744333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=744333", "title": "Emily Post", "text": "Emily Post\n\nEmily Post (c. October 27, 1872September 25, 1960) was an American author famous for writing about etiquette.\nPost was born Emily Price in Baltimore, Maryland, possibly in October 1872 (the precise date is disputed). Her father was the architect, Bruce Price, and her mother was Josephine (Lee) Price of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. After being educated at home in her early years, Price attended Miss Graham's finishing school in New York after her family moved there.\n\n\"The New York Times\" Dinitia Smith reports, in her review of Laura Claridge's 2008 biography of Post,Emily was tall, pretty and spoiled. [...] She grew up in a world of grand estates, her life governed by carefully delineated rituals like the cotillion with its complex forms and its dances — the Fan, the Ladies Mocked, Mother Goose — called out in dizzying turns by the dance master.\n\nPrice met her future husband, Edwin Main Post, a prominent banker, at a ball in a Fifth Avenue mansion. Following their wedding in 1892 and a honeymoon tour of Europe, they lived in New York's Washington Square. They also had a country cottage, named \"Emily Post Cottage\", in Tuxedo Park, which was one of four Bruce Price Cottages she inherited from her father. The couple moved to Staten Island and had two sons, Edwin Main Post Jr. (1893) and Bruce Price Post (1895).\n\nEmily divorced Mr. Post in 1905, because of his affairs with chorus girls and fledgling actresses, which made him the target of blackmail.\n\nWhen her two sons were old enough to attend boarding school, Post began to write. She produced newspaper articles on architecture and interior design, as well as stories and serials for magazines including \"Harper's\", \"Scribner's\", and \"The Century\". She wrote five novels: \"Flight of a Moth\" (1904), \"Purple and Fine Linen\" (1905), \"Woven in the Tapestry\" (1908), \"The Title Market\" (1909), and \"The Eagle's Feather\" (1910). In 1916, she published \"By Motor to the Golden Gate\" – a recount of a road trip she made from New York to San Francisco with her son Edwin and another companion.\n\nPost wrote in various styles, including humorous travel books, early in her career. She published her first etiquette book \"Etiquette in Society, in Business, in Politics, and at Home\" (1922, frequently referenced as \"Etiquette\") when she was 50; it became a best-seller, with updated versions continued to be popular for decades, and it made her career. After 1931, Post spoke on radio programs and wrote a column on good taste for the Bell Syndicate; it appeared daily in some 200 newspapers after 1932.\n\nIn her review of Claridge's 2008 biography of Post, \"The New York Times\" Dinitia Smith explains the keys to Post's popularity:\nSuch books had always been popular in America: the country’s exotic mix of immigrants and newly rich were eager to fit in with the establishment. Men had to be taught not to blow their noses into their hands or to spit tobacco onto ladies’ backs. Arthur M. Schlesinger, who wrote “Learning How to Behave: A Historical Study of American Etiquette Books” in 1946, said that etiquette books were part of “the leveling-up process of democracy,” an attempt to resolve the conflict between the democratic ideal and the reality of class. But Post’s etiquette books went far beyond those of her predecessors. They read like short-story collections with recurring characters, the Toploftys, the Eminents, the Richan Vulgars, the Gildings and the Kindharts.\n\nIn 1946, Post founded The Emily Post Institute, which continues her work.\n\nPost died in 1960 in her New York City apartment at the age of 87.\n\n\nEmily Post's name has become synonymous, at least in North America, with proper etiquette and manners. More than half a century after her death, her name is still used in titles of etiquette books. Laura Claridge wrote a book addressing that topic: \"Emily Post: Daughter of the Gilded Age, Mistress of American Manners\" (2008), the first full-length biography of the author.\n\nEmil Fuchs' portrait of Post (ca.1906) is on display at the Brooklyn Museum.\n\nFrank Tashlin featured Post's caricature (emerging from her etiquette book and scolding England's King Henry VIII about his lack of manners) in his cartoon \"Have You Got Any Castles?\" (1938).\n\nOn the 1943 Warner Bros. cartoon: A Corny Concerto, on the section \"Tales from the Vienna Woods\", Bugs Bunny shows a book entitled Emily Post Etiquette, then turns to a page that states \"It ain't polite to point!\" at which he then slams the book shut on a hound's nose.\n\nIn 1950, \"Pageant\" named her the second most powerful woman in America, after Eleanor Roosevelt.\n\nOn May 28, 1998, the USPS issued a 32¢ stamp featuring Post as part of the Celebrate the Century stamp sheet series.\n\nEmily's most accredited works included those regarding the courtship of young women. She was once quoted saying, \"It's always polite to invite the gentlemen to your abode after a pleasant meal.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50266644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50266644", "title": "Featurepics", "text": "Featurepics\n\nFeaturepics is a royalty-free microstock photography digital content agency that has been actively working in the stock photography market since 2007 based in Fremont, California.\n\nFeaturepics has successfully developed solid and efficient content library of over 3 million royalty-free photographs, vector images, illustrations as well as an established network of partners across the media industry. Featurepics utilizes a unique business model is to provide users with an inventory of high-quality images licensed for specific uses (Royalty-free, publications, software, etc.). Featurepics provides content API portal to distribute a variety of stock photos with helpful HTML codes for linking across individual images and entire portfolios. With the help from its contributors the site categorizes graphics media to provide designers with variety of resources, from basic stock content to custom graphics concepts in direct competition with Shutterstock and Alamy agencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49578168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49578168", "title": "Flora Tasmaniae", "text": "Flora Tasmaniae\n\nThe Flora Tasmaniae is a description of the plants discovered in Tasmania during the Ross expedition written by Joseph Dalton Hooker and published by Reeve Brothers in London between 1855 and 1860. Hooker sailed on HMS \"Erebus\" as assistant surgeon. Written in two volumes, it was the last in a series of four Floras in the \"Flora Antarctica\", the others being the \"Flora of Lord Auckland and Campbell's Islands\" (1843–45), the \"Flora of Fuegia, the Falkland Islands, etc\" (1845-47), and the \"Flora Novae-Zelandiae\" (1851–53). They were \"splendidly\" illustrated by Walter Hood Fitch.\n\nThe larger part of the plant specimens collected during the Ross expedition are now part of the Kew Herbarium.\n\nAlthough Hooker professed not to have changed his views on Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection, the book contains an introductory essay on biogeography written from a Darwinian point of view, making the book the first case study for the theory.\n\nThe British government fitted out an expedition led by James Clark Ross to investigate magnetism and marine geography in high southern latitudes, which sailed with two ships, HMS \"Terror\" and HMS \"Erebus\" on 29 September 1839 from Chatham.\n\nThe ships arrived, after several stops, at the Cape of Good Hope on 4 April 1840. On 21 April the giant kelp \"Macrocystis pyrifera\" was found off Marion Island, but no landfall could be made there or on the Crozet Islands due to the harsh winds. On 12 May the ships anchored at Christmas Harbour for two and a half months, during which all the plant species previously encountered by James Cook on the Kerguelen Islands were collected. On 16 August they reached the River Derwent, collecting plants in Tasmania until 12 November. A week later the flotilla stopped at Lord Auckland's Islands and Campbell's Island for the spring months.\n\nLarge floating forests of \"Macrocystis\" and \"Durvillaea\" were found until the ships ran into icebergs at latitude 61° S. Pack-ice was met at 68° S and longitude 175°. During this part of the voyage Victoria Land, Mount Erebus and Mount Terror were discovered. After returning to Tasmania for three months, the flotilla went via Sydney to the Bay of Islands, and stayed for three months in New Zealand. After visiting other islands, the ships returned to the Cape of Good Hope on 4 April 1843. At the end of the journey specimens of some fifteen hundred plant species had been collected and preserved.\n\nThe 930-page \"Flora Tasmaniae\" was published between 1855 and 1860. Hooker dedicated it to the local naturalists Ronald Campbell Gunn and William Archer, noting that \"This Flora of Tasmania .. owes so much to their indefatigable exertions\". Although the book is sometimes stated to have been published in 1859, the dedication is dated January 1860. It made use of plants collected by the local naturalist Robert Lawrence as well as Gunn and Archer.\n\n\nThe book begins with an \"Introductory Essay\" on biogeography. It is followed by a \"Key to the Natural Orders of Tasmanian Flowering Plants\" and a more detailed key to the genera. The Flora proper begins with the first order, the Ranunculaceae.\n\nHooker's \"Flora Tasmaniae\" was \"the first published case study supporting Charles Darwin’s theory of natural selection\". It contained a \"milestone essay on biogeography\", \"one of the first major public endorsements of the theory [of evolution by natural selection]\". Hooker gradually changed his mind on evolution as he wrote up his findings from the Ross expedition. While he asserted that \"my own views on the subjects of the variability of existing species\" remain \"unaltered from those which I maintained in the 'Flora of New Zealand'\", the \"Flora Tasmaniae\" is written from a Darwinian perspective that effectively assumes natural selection, or as Hooker named it, the \"variation\" theory, to be correct.\n\n"}
{"id": "41591152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41591152", "title": "Flora of Thailand", "text": "Flora of Thailand\n\nFlora of Thailand is a multi-volume flora describing the vascular plants of Thailand, published by the Forest Herbarium, Royal Forest Department since the 1970s. It currently consists of 12 volumes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10519793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10519793", "title": "Frederick Warne &amp; Co", "text": "Frederick Warne &amp; Co\n\nFrederick Warne & Co is a British publisher famous for children's books, particularly those of Beatrix Potter, and for its Observer's Books which have gained a cult following.\n\nIt is an imprint of Penguin Random House, a subsidiary of German media conglomerate Bertelsmann and British publishing company Pearson plc.\n\nFrederick Warne & Co was founded in 1865 by London bookseller and publisher, Frederick Warne. The business was a replacement of an earlier association between Warne and George Routledge, who went on to found his own publishing company, Routledge.\n\nDuring the second half of the nineteenth century, the company had built a good reputation for publishing children's books, publishing illustrated books by well-known authors and artists as Edward Lea, Kate Greenaway and Walter Crane. Toward the end of the century, Frederick Warne had retired and left the firm to his three sons, Harold, Fruing and Norman.\nWarne was among the six publishers whom Beatrix Potter submitted her first book, the story of a rabbit called Peter. Like the other five firms, Warne turned the proposal down. But the people at the firm changed their minds when they saw the privately published copy in 1901. They said they would publish the book, as long as the illustrations were drawn in colour. The next year, Warne published \"The Tale of Peter Rabbit\", and by Christmas it had sold 20,000 copies. This began a forty-year partnership which saw the publication of twenty-two additional little books. Beatrix Potter was engaged to marry Norman Warne, her editor and the youngest of the three Warne brothers. However, he died tragically in 1905, only a few weeks after their engagement. Harold, the eldest brother, took over as Potter's editor. She continued to produce one or two new Little Books each year for the next eight years until her marriage in 1913 to William Heelis. During the next few years Potter turned her attention to her farm work, but when the company fell on hard times and Harold was imprisoned for embezzlement, she came to the rescue with another new title to support \"the old firm.\" Potter, who had no children, left the rights to her works to Warne upon her death. The company continued to publish them; it also brought out several biographical works about its most renowned author. Over the years, Warne also expanded its nonfiction publishing, issuing among others the world-famous Observer books. \nIn 1983, Warne was bought by Penguin books. It began developing classic book-based children's character brands. The merchandising program was expanded from a base of thirty-five licenses to more than four hundred by the late 1990s. Over the years, Warne acquired a variety of other classic books.\n\nA major motion picture about the life of Beatrix Potter \"Miss Potter\", starring Renée Zellweger as Beatrix Potter and Ewan McGregor as Norman Warne was released in 2006. While the company no longer exists as an independent company, it continues to exist as an imprint of Penguin Group. The company will be collaborating with Sony Pictures Animation and Animal Logic to produce the upcoming Peter Rabbit film, which is set for release in 2018.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, Warne printed twenty-three books written by Beatrix Potter. These books were mainly written about animals, and were written from 1902–1930. Here is the list of her books, the links to their Wikipedia pages and their first edition dates.\n\n\nFrom 1937 to 2003, Warne published small, pocket-sized books, which were available on many subjects. The aim of these books were to interest the observer. They were called the Observer's books. These books were very popular amongst children. Over the past few years they have become very popular collector items. For the dedicated collector this could be a lifetime's work as there are over 800 variations, some of which are now very rare. The values of the books can vary from 50p to hundreds of pounds. They all include a variety of topics, which include hobbies, art, history, wildlife and many more. The earlier books were printed with paper dust covers up until 1969. These were good for printing but where not very practical because they were very delicate and were easy to rip and stain. From 1970, the covers were protected with a glossy coating. This helped the dust covers protection. These types are often referred to as Glossies. From the late 1970s, Warne decided to laminate the covers to the actual books, so the books were highly protected as they didn't really have any covers. The dust covers from 1937 to 1970 had designs that were colourful and attractive as each one had its own unique colouring of squiggly lines at the top. In 1971, Warne decided to refurbish its books with a more formal dust jacket. These were good but it lost the charm that the original covers had had. I have some pictures below of old and new dust jackets in Observer's books. The first Observer guide was published in 1937, and was on the subject of British Birds. This is now very rare, and a mint copy with a dust cover is worth hundreds of pounds. The same year, Warne published a second book, on British Wild Flowers, a mint copy of this book is worth around £220.\n\nBy 1941, Warne had published the first six Observer's books. In 1942, a special edition book was bought out on Airplanes. This book had no number in the series, as it was bought out to help people spot enemy planes during World War 2. It was printed again in 1943 and in 1945. When Warne was acquired by Penguin books in 1983, Warne bought out new editions of the Observer's books. These were slightly bigger than the Observer's books and were in paperback, not hardback. The same year penguin, with permission of Warne, started printing their own, more up to date Observer's books. These again were slightly larger than the originals but were hardbacks. Like the later original Observer's books, The dust cover was laminated to the actual book. There were two types of the penguin Observer's books, Bloomsbury Observer's, and Claremont Observer's, (of which there were only 12 different editions).\nBelow is a list of all the original Observer's books with the dates of their first editions, and two pictures of Observer's books.\n\n"}
{"id": "706155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706155", "title": "Fully qualified domain name", "text": "Fully qualified domain name\n\nA fully qualified domain name (FQDN), sometimes also referred to as an \"absolute domain name\", is a domain name that specifies its exact location in the tree hierarchy of the Domain Name System (DNS). It specifies all domain levels, including at least a second-level domain and a top-level domain. A fully qualified domain name is distinguished by its lack of ambiguity: it can be interpreted only in one way.\n\nThe DNS root domain is unnamed which is expressed by having an empty label in the DNS hierarchy, resulting in a fully qualified domain name ending with the top-level domain. However, in some cases the full stop (period) character is required at the end of the fully qualified domain name. If domain names do not end with a period, the Domain Name Server appends one as a suffix. \n\nIn contrast to a domain name that is fully specified, a domain name that does not include the full path of labels up to the DNS root is often called a \"partially qualified domain name\".\n\nA fully qualified domain name consists of a list of domain labels representing the hierarchy from the lowest relevant level in the DNS to the top-level domain (TLD). The domain labels are concatenated using the full stop (\"dot\", \"period\") character as separator between labels.\n\nThe DNS root is unnamed, expressed as the empty label terminated by the dot. This is most notable in DNS zone files in which a fully qualified domain name must be specified with a trailing dot. For example, \"somehost.example.com.\" explicitly specifies an absolute domain name that ends with the empty top level domain label.\n\nA device with the hostname \"myhost\" in the parent domain \"example.com\" has the fully qualified domain name \"myhost.example.com.\" The FQDN uniquely distinguishes the device from any other hosts called \"myhost\" in other domains.\n\nMany DNS resolvers process a domain name that contains a dot in any position as being fully qualified or add the final dot needed for the root of the DNS tree. Resolvers process a domain name without a dot as unqualified and automatically append the system's default domain name and the final dot.\n\nSome applications, such as web browsers, try to resolve the domain name part of a uniform resource locator (URL) if the resolver cannot find the specified domain or if it is clearly not fully qualified by appending frequently used top-level domains and testing the result. Some applications, however, never use trailing dots to indicate absoluteness, because the underlying protocols require the use of FQDNs, such as the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP).\n\nA partially qualified domain name does not include all labels to the DNS root. Such a name is also known as a relative domain name. Relative domain names are often simply hostnames, i.e. the left-most label in a fully qualified name.\n\n"}
{"id": "22284782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22284782", "title": "Fuzzy Cupid", "text": "Fuzzy Cupid\n\nLeon Stap (sometimes spelled Leon Stop) (September 24, 1928 – 1976) was an American midget professional wrestler better known by his ring name Fuzzy Cupid. During his career, he was the frequent tag team partner of fellow midget wrestler Sky Low Low.\n\nStap first saw a midget professional wrestling match in Texas, and he decided to try the sport. He later went to Detroit to train at the advice of promoter Norman Brown. He debuted in 1952. In the 1950s, he toured Ontario with other midget wrestlers such as Little Beaver, Lord Littlebrook, and Sky Low Low. During the 1960s, he often teamed with Sky Low Low in matches. The duo competed in the World Wide Wrestling Federation against the midget tag team of Tiny Tim and Pancho López (wrestler).\n\nDuring his career, he often played the role of the bad guy and was on the receiving end of crowd violence. Because of this violence, Stap endured a fractured vertebra and a four-inch blade wound.\n\nThe little information available about the personal life of Stap was originally from an article written by Stanley Weston in the October 1959 edition of \"Man's Magazine\". His parents were of normal height. At the age of seven, Stap had infantile paralysis that caused him to be hospitalized for six years. He did not enter public school until the age of seventeen. Prior to entering the world of professional wrestling, he played the role of Grumpy in a traveling production of \"Snow White\".\n\nStap died in 1976.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56334283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56334283", "title": "Garda Museum", "text": "Garda Museum\n\nThe Garda Museum and Archives is a police museum located in Dublin, Ireland, located in the Treasury Building of Dublin Castle.\n\nOpened in 2017 and designed by Dara Lynne Lenehan, it covers the history of policing in Ireland (excluding Northern Ireland), including medieval watchmen, the Baronial Constabulary, County Constabulary, the Dublin Metropolitan Police, the Royal Irish Constabulary and the Civic Guard/Garda Síochána.\n\nCommissioner Nóirín O'Sullivan officially opened it in December 2016, but legal disputes meant that the public could not visit until August 2017. It replaced an older museum which had been housed in the Record Tower.\n"}
{"id": "23015651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23015651", "title": "I'm Photogenic", "text": "I'm Photogenic\n\nI'm Photogenic () is a 1980 Italian comedy film directed by Dino Risi. It was screened out of competition at the 1980 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nItaly, early 1980s. Antonio Barozzi (Renato Pozzetto), an aspiring actor, goes to Rome, at the film studios, he seeks both fame and fortune.\n\n"}
{"id": "2622174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2622174", "title": "IB affair", "text": "IB affair\n\nIB was a secret Swedish intelligence agency within the Swedish Armed Forces. Its two main purposes were to handle liaison with foreign intelligence agencies and to gather information about communists and other individuals who were perceived to be a threat to the nation. The exposure of the IB operations came to be known as the \"IB affair\" (\"IB-affären\").\nThe meaning of the name IB is not known with certainty. It is often said to be an abbreviation of either \"Informationsbyrån\" (The Information Office, Information Bureau) or \"Insamling Birger\" ([Information-]Gathering Birger, after its director Birger Elmér). This is, however, speculation, and neither name was in general use within the organization.\n\nThe key persons leading to the exposure of the IB were journalists Jan Guillou and Peter Bratt and their original main source Håkan Isacson. The two reporters revealed their findings in the leftist magazine \"Folket i Bild/Kulturfront\" on 3 May 1973. The story was immediately picked up by many leading Swedish dailies. Their revelations were that: \n\nIn the following issues of \"Folket i Bild/Kulturfront\" the two uncovered further activities of IB and interviewed a man who had infiltrated the Swedish movement supporting the FNL, Vietnamese National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam - at this time the FNL support network was a backbone of the radical opinion - and among other things, visited Palestinian guerilla camps in Jordan. The man worked for IB and had composed reports that, it was surmised, IB later passed on to the Israeli security services which resulted in the camps being bombed. The man, Gunnar Ekberg, claimed in his interview to have broken with IB, but in fact was still working for the organization. This was exposed in the following editions of FiB/Kulturfront, but by that time, Ekberg had gone underground. Swedish authorities claimed they were unable to locate him to stand trial. In 2009, he released an autobiography of his years in IB, attacking Guillou in particular for having misrepresented facts, been involved with Palestinian militant groups (particularly the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine), and worked for the KGB; and alleging widespread terrorist ties to the groups and persons monitored by IB. He also confirmed that he had been transferred from IB to the Mossad, an Israeli intelligence agency, immediately prior to his exposure.\n\nGuillou had opened the first article by accusing the director of IB of murder on these grounds. The same issue exposed a Swedish naval captain who had passed reports about the harbor security of Alexandria (implying, again, that IB were exchanging information with the Israelis); also the story of a woman who had, on the orders of IB, spied out potential bombing targets in Egypt.\n\nThe magazine had information from a previous employee of IB, Håkan Isacsson, who claimed that IB had broken into the offices of two political organizations: the FNL Groups, a pro-North Vietnamese organization, and the Communist Party of Sweden, a Maoist political party. This concerned a Jordanian citizen and a stateless citizen. A wiretap was installed in the latter case. After this uncovering, the defense minister did admit that IB engaged in espionage outside of Sweden and infiltrated organizations within Sweden, including wiretaps.\n\nEvidence was put forth in 1974 that IB had built up a large network of agents in Finland, which included the Finnish foreign minister Väinö Leskinen. This network's main mission was to gather information regarding the Soviet Union. IB had no contacts with the Finnish Security Intelligence Service, since it was believed to have been infiltrated by Soviet agents.\n\nIn November 1973, Prime Minister Olof Palme denied any link between IB and the Social Democrats. However, according to the memoir of ex-security service chief P.G. Vinge, Birger Elmér had regular contact with Palme and made his reports regularly to the Social Democratic Party secretary, Sven Andersson.\n\nDefence minister Sven Andersson denied that Sweden had spies abroad. He also denied that IB was involved in burglaries and documenting citizens' political opinions.\n\nJan Guillou, Peter Bratt, Håkan Isacson and the photographer Ove Holmqvist were arrested 22 October 1973 by the Swedish Security Service on suspicion of espionage. On 4 January 1974 each was sentenced to 1 year in prison. Bratt and Guillou were both convicted of espionage; Isacson was convicted of espionage and accessory to espionage. After an appeal, Guillou's sentence was commuted to 10 months. The Swedish Supreme Court would not consider the case.\n\nThe Parliamentary Ombudsman investigated the IB organisation but came to the conclusion that they had not broken any laws. Concerning the break-ins to the leftists' organization, the Ombudsman stated that since the personnel of IB had entered the premises using a key or a lock-pick and had not stolen anything it could not be considered a crime.\n\nIn 2002 an extensive public report, named \"Rikets säkerhet och den personliga integriteten\" (Security of the Realm and personal integrity), was published on the operations of IB. This report clarified the details of the case, but it did not have any legal impact.\n\nTo date, no member of IB has ever been indicted, nor has any politician or government official, despite the revelation of widespread extra-constitutional and criminal activity.\n"}
{"id": "1364808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1364808", "title": "Lasseter's Reef", "text": "Lasseter's Reef\n\nLasseter's Reef refers to the purported discovery, announced by Harold Bell Lasseter in 1929 and 1930, of a fabulously rich gold deposit in a remote and desolate corner of central Australia. Lasseter's accounts of the find are conflicting and its precise location remains a mystery—if it exists.\n\nIn 1929 and again in 1930 Harold Bell Lasseter (1880–1931) made different (and possibly conflicting) claims that either in 1911 or in 1897, he had discovered a rich gold deposit. On 14 October 1929 he wrote a letter to Kalgoorlie federal member, Albert Green, claiming to have discovered \"a vast gold bearing reef in Central Australia\" 18 years earlier and that it was located at the western edge of the MacDonnell Ranges. He made a similar claim to other officials and was interviewed by a commissioner and a geologist, however the government took no action to investigate the claim. It was revealed that from 1908 to 1913 Lasseter lived on a lease-hold farm near Tabulam.\n\nIn March 1930 he provided a different story to John Bailey of the Australian Workers' Union. In this claim Lasseter details that as a young man of the age of 17, he rode on horse from Queensland to the West Australian gold fields, during which he stumbled across a huge gold reef somewhere near the border between the Northern Territory and Western Australia. However Lasseter had been sentenced to reform school at that time. According to the story told to Bailey, Lasseter was about west of Alice Springs in a line towards Kalgoorlie. He claimed that subsequent to this discovery he got into difficulties and was fortuitously rescued by a passing Afghan camel driver who took him to the camp of a surveyor, Joseph Harding. Harding and Lasseter were said to have later returned to the reef in the attempt to fix its location, but failed because their watches were inaccurate. As the expedition with Harding dated in the years before World War I, the two different versions about the finding of the reef could have been unconflicting; it is possible that Lasseter did refer sometimes to his first finding in 1897 and sometimes to the first expedition with Harding.\n\nAccording to Lasseter, he spent the next three decades trying to raise sufficient interest to fund an expedition into the interior. But at the time the fortunes being made from the gold rush at Kalgoorlie in Western Australia meant that no-one was prepared to risk trekking into the uncharted desert wilderness of central Australia, even if the supposed discovery was as rich as he claimed.\n\nBy 1930, when Australia was in the grip of the Great Depression, the attractions of desert gold were much greater, and Lasseter succeeded in securing approximately £50,000 in private funding towards an expedition to relocate the reef. Unusual for the time, this expedition included motorised vehicular transport and an aircraft. Accompanying Lasseter were experienced bushmen Fred Blakeley (leader) and Frank Colson as well as George Sutherland (prospector), Phil Taylor (engineer, driver), Blakeston-Houston (governor-general's aide, 'explorer') and Errol Coote (pilot).\n\nOn 21 July 1930 the group left Alice Springs, Lasseter was a sullen companion and a vague guide. They headed for Ilbilba (aka Ilbpilla Soak) – an aerodrome created earlier that year for Donald George Mackay's expedition, near Lake Mackay. The group endured logistical difficulties and physical hardships (including the loss of a plane). On reaching Mount Marjorie (now Mount Leisler), Lasseter declared that they were too far north of the search zone. Exasperated, Blakeley declared Lasseter a charlatan, and decided to end the expedition. They parted with Lasseter at Ilbilba.\n\nLasseter insisted on continuing the trek, accompanied by a dingo-shooter, Paul Johns, and his team of camels. Lasseter, whose behaviour was increasingly erratic, set off towards The Olgas. One afternoon Lasseter returned to camp with some concealed rock samples and announced that he had relocated the gold reef. He refused to reveal its location. Johns, who by now doubted Lasseter's sanity, accused him of being a liar. A fight ensued, and Johns left Lasseter to his own devices, returning to 'civilization'. Lasseter himself trudged off into the desert sands with two camels.\n\nA search for Lasseter was conducted by a bushman, Bob Buck. In March 1931 Buck found Lasseter's emaciated body at Winter's Glen and his personal effects in a cave at Hull's Creek. From Lasseter's diary it was learned that after Johns had left, Lasseter's camels bolted, leaving him alone in the desert without any means of sustaining himself or returning. He encountered a group of nomadic Aborigines, who rendered assistance with food and shelter; but a weakened and blinded Lasseter eventually died of malnutrition and exhaustion, having made a belated attempt to walk from the cave to Uluru or the Kata Tjuta.\n\nVarious statements by Paul Johns reveal the areas where he and Lasseter travelled and searched while together: the Petermann and Rawlinson Ranges, then south-west to the Warburton Range, then a zigzag course evidently following the ranges eastward to the Western Australian border ending at the Petadi rock hole at the eastern end of the Mann Range in South Australia. Almost out of supplies they then returned to Ilbilba where they parted.\n\nGeologists have made various statements as to whether or not there are gold bearing areas in this country. In 1931 geologists T. Blatchford and H.W.B. Talbot accompanying Bob Buck pronounced the region as unpromising but they only inspected the Petermann Range and the eastern end of the Rawlinson Range, travelling no farther west than Sladen Waters. In 2014 geologists W.D. Maier, H.M. Howard and R.H. Smithies likened the southern part of Lasseter's search area to the Bushveld Complex in South Africa where gold deposits do occur and said the region has high potential, quoting a 2002 report of copper-gold vein style material found north of the Cavenagh Range.\n\nNo maps showing the location of the fabled gold reef were ever found, and over subsequent decades the tale of the reef and its discoverer has assumed mythic proportions; it is perhaps the most famous lost mine legend in Australia, and remains a \"holy grail\" among Australian prospectors. Popular adventure-story author Ion Idriess, in his book \"Lasseter's Last Ride\" (1931), gives a detailed description of Lasseter's time with the Aborigines. His diary's notes were hidden under camp fires from the Aborigines. They had shunned Lasseter after their Kurdaitcha man \"pointed the bone at him\" – he was condemned to be ignored and no longer cared for. Another story is told in Pintupi-Luritja language and English in Laatjatanya Yanutja, available in the Living Archive of Aboriginal Languages.\n\nLasseter's Reef became a famous Australian folk tale. It inspired a sub-plot in the film, \"Strike Me Lucky\" (1934), and Lasseter's fate was recreated in the movie \"Phantom Gold\" (1936). In 1974 Bill Gill Productions and Australian Film School worked on a film version of \"Lasseter's Last Ride\". Two songs titled \"Lasseter's Last Ride\" are: first by Peter Dawson and Edward Harrington and performed by Peter Dawson (May 1940), second was written and performed by Dean Thomas (September 2012). Other songs dealing with the subject include: \"Lasseter\" (James Hermel), \"Lasseter\" (William Lovelock), \"Lasseter's Dream\" (Keith Glass), \"Lasseter's Gold\" (M Vijars, T Davis), and \"Lasseters Reef of Gold\" (Brian Letton).\n\nLuke Walker's 2013 documentary feature \"Lasseter's Bones\" explores the life and legend of Lasseter and documents the filmmaker's many attempts to locate the notorious Lasseter's Reef.\nThe film also follows Lasseter's elderly son Bob on his last desert expedition to find his father's lost gold and explores the many complex strands of the Lasseter mystery.\n\n\"Lasseter's Bones\" was nominated for Best Documentary at the Film Critics Circle of Australia Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38232811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38232811", "title": "Lesbian Herstory Archives", "text": "Lesbian Herstory Archives\n\nThe Lesbian Herstory Archives (LHA) is a New York City-based archive, community center, and museum dedicated to preserving lesbian history, located in Park Slope, Brooklyn. The Archives contain the world's largest collection of materials by and about lesbians.\n\nThe Archives were founded in 1974 by lesbian members of the Gay Academic Union who had organized a group to discuss sexism within that organization. Co-founders Joan Nestle, Deborah Edel, Sahli Cavallo, Pamela Oline, and Julia Stanley wanted to ensure that the stories of the lesbian community were protected for future generations. Until the 1990s, the Archives were housed in Nestle's Upper West Side, Manhattan apartment. The collection eventually outgrew the space and was moved to a brownstone that the group had purchased in Brooklyn's Park Slope neighborhood. The Archives hold all manner of historical artifacts relating to lesbians and lesbian organizations and have grown to include some 11,000 books and 1,300 periodical titles, as well as an unknown number of photographs.\n\nFollowing the Stonewall riots of 1969, many groups devoted to gay liberation were formed. Joan Nestle credits the creation of the Lesbian Herstory Archives to the Stonewall riots \"and the courage that found its voice in the streets.\" The Gay Academic Union was founded in 1973 by gay and lesbian academics interested in contributing to the movement. Lesbian members of the union started a consciousness raising group to discuss sexism within the GAU. The women were concerned with how easily lesbian herstory had been lost and didn't want their story to be told by patriarchal historians. Joan Nestle later elaborated on the impetus for the Archives, writing \"The roots of the Archives lie in the silent voices, the love letters destroyed, the pronouns changed, the diaries carefully edited, the pictures never taken, the euphemized distortions that patriarchy would let pass.\" The motto of the Lesbian Herstory Archives is \"In memory of the voices we have lost.\" The original statement of purpose for the organization provided that the collection must never be bartered or sold, that it should be housed in a lesbian community space staffed by lesbians, and that all women should have access to it.\n\nThe founding members of the Lesbian Herstory Archives had backgrounds in lesbian feminism and political lesbianism and included Joan Nestle, Deborah Edel, Sahli Cavallo, Pamela Oline, and Julia Stanley. Lesbian activist Mabel Hampton, who had worked as a housecleaner for Nestle's family when Nestle was growing up, was also an early collaborator. The founders started gathering and preserving documents and artifacts related to lesbian history. They were interested in the social history of the community and collected all manner of materials related to lesbian history, regardless of whether the lesbian was famous or part of a marginalized group. Edel later related how they would joke that if an object was touched by a lesbian, they would collect it. The Archives debuted in 1974 and were housed in the pantry of an Upper West Side apartment belonging to Nestle. The location of the original archives was recognized as a Women's Rights Historic Site by the borough of Manhattan in 2008.\n\nLHA began producing a newsletter, the \"Lesbian Herstory Archives News\", in June 1975 and opened their archives to the community in 1976. In 1979 LHA became one of the earliest queer non-profits in New York when they incorporated as the Lesbian Herstory Educational Foundation.\n\nThe Archives eventually took over much of Nestle's apartment and it was necessary to find a new home for materials. After years of fundraising that began in 1985, LHA purchased a four-story brownstone at 484 14th Street in Park Slope in 1990. The Archives were relocated to their new home in 1992 and an official opening took place in June 1993. The 16th issue of the \"Lesbian Herstory Archives Newsletter\" from December 1996 announced that the mortgage for the building had been paid off. Today its holdings include some 11,000 books and 1,300 periodical titles, as well as an unknown number of photographs.\n\nThe Lesbian Herstory Archives are run by a coordinating committee who determine which items are accepted into the archives. The Archives are entirely staffed by volunteers and interns. LHA hosts events in its space, including courses, speakers, marathon poetry readings, and an annual Valentine's Day event. Archivists from LHA regularly march in the New York City Dyke March and until 2014 in the LGBT Pride March.\n\nIn the early years of the Lesbian Herstory Archives, samples of materials from the Archives were brought to speaking engagements. In order to preserve them, a traveling slide show was developed. LHA also sponsors traveling exhibits organized around various themes. Its \"Keepin' On\" exhibit features African American lesbians.\n\nThe Lesbian Herstory Archives began with personal materials donated by the founders. They put out a call for donations of materials and gradually increased their collection over the years. Today the collection holds all manner of historical artifacts, including papers, diaries, journals, photographs, tapes, posters, buttons, periodicals, zines, T-shirts, and videos. Copies of films are available for viewing at the Archives and originals are stored off-site in a climate-controlled storage facility.\n\nLHA has accepted donations of materials for the Archives throughout its history. Mabel Hampton donated her extensive lesbian pulp fiction collection to the Archives in 1976. Files from both the New York Lesbian and Gay Historical Society and the Lesbian History Project were donated to the Archives upon the dissolution of those organizations. The Archives hosts the Red Dot Collection, which consists of the library of the New York City chapter of the Daughters of Bilitis, the first national lesbian organization in the United States. Writer and activist Audre Lorde donated some of her manuscripts and personal papers to the Archives. The Marge MacDonald Special Collection consists of the books, papers, and journals of Marge MacDonald, who left the materials to LHA in her will over the objection of her family, who wanted to destroy them.\"The L Word\" production donated their press materials in 2010.\n\nThe LHA website at lesbianherstoryarchives.org, which debuted in 1997, has evolved to include a digital collection featuring a virtual tour of the Archives. The digital collection is hosted by the Pratt Institute School of Information. LHA is in the process of digitizing its audio and newsprint collections and the video oral histories of the Daughters of Bilitis. LHA maintains over 1500 subject files on various topics that they microfilmed with the help of Primary Source Microfilm into a set of 175 reels.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "17991609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17991609", "title": "Miele Guide", "text": "Miele Guide\n\nThe Miele Guide is a regional guide book to restaurants in Asia. The 2008/2009 edition which was published at the end of October 2008, launched the first in an annual series, which ranked and showcased the top 20 restaurants in Asia, as well as categorised restaurants according to the city and country they are in. It is published by Singapore-based Ate Media, and officially sponsored by the German home appliance maker Miele. Other official partners include TIME Magazine, Visa Inc. and Hyatt Hotels. The guide does not accept advertising and none of the official partners have any influence on the multi-round judging process.\n\nThe Miele Guide is the brainchild of Singaporeans Aun Koh and Tan Su-Lyn, created out of what they perceive to be the lack of an authoritative reference to restaurants in Asia. Aun Koh is the director of Ate Media and also the noted blogger behind popular Singapore food blog Chubbyhubby.net . As early as 2006, the blog featured entries discussing the lack of recognition for restaurants in Asia in international listings and rankings such as Restaurant Magazine's annual Top 50 list Restaurant (magazine) Top 50. A predecessor of the Miele Guide was probably Koh's early efforts to compile an alternative list of Asia's best restaurants through online polling on his website.\n\nThe first printed edition of the Miele Guide was published at the end of October 2008. The 16 Asian countries evaluated by the Miele Guide in the first edition are: Brunei, \nCambodia, China (including Hong Kong and Macau), India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.\n\nEach year's list of restaurants to be featured in the printed edition of the Miele Guide was compiled through four rigorous rounds of judging. In the initial round, the publishers worked with respected food critics at top magazines and newspapers across Asia, called the \"shortlisting jury\" to create a shortlist of restaurants for all the countries to be surveyed. In the second round, voting opens to the public on the website . In the third round, a special jury of more than 2000 food lovers and food and wine professionals cast their votes in a closed round of voting. In the final round, the Miele Guide's team, together with contributing editors across Asia, verify the results by dining anonymously and independently, before the final list of restaurants is compiled.\n\nJudges are not paid for their efforts.\n\nA key feature of the printed edition of the Miele Guide is the Top 20 restaurants in Asia list. The restaurants that emerge in the top 20 from the combined rounds of judging are featured and profiled in-depth. The top 20 restaurants are listed with a detailed description on the Guide's website.\n\n2008/09: Iggy's, Singapore. \n2009/10: L'Atelier de Joel Robuchon, Hong Kong.\n2010/11: Iggy's, Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "26462401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26462401", "title": "Mixobarbaroi", "text": "Mixobarbaroi\n\nMixobarbaroi (, , \"semi-/mixed/half barbarians\") was an ethnographical term first used in Classical Greece by authors to denote people who lived in the frontiers of the \"oikoumene\", and had qualities of both the civilized peoples and the barbarians, as seen in the works of Euripides, Plato and Xenophon. It would later come to describe mixed Greeks or other people mixed with \"barbarians\" in the Greek lands of cultural plurality. In Byzantine times this term was used by authors chiefly in the 11th–12th centuries to denote the linguistically and ethnically mixed populations of the Danube region.\n\nIn the Plato dialogue \"Menexenus\", a group of \"barbarians\" considered themselves Greeks, but were not full-blooded Greeks, thus only \"\"mixobarbaroi\". Xenophon describes the people of Cedreiae in Asia Minor, who were allies to Athens, as \"mixobarbaroi\"\", meaning those who were bound to treaties with Athens but were not Athenian.\n\nAfter the Christianization of the Byzantine Empire and the first Christian emperor Constantine I, the term is used to denote non-Romans of Christian faith living in the frontiers bound by treaties to the emperor, thus being of half-barbarian stock opposed to ordinary \"barbarians\" who were either non-civilized, pagan or not living in the frontiers. Anna Comnena refers to the people of Paristrion as \"mixobarbaroi\", distinguished from the Scythians whom they nevertheless shared language with.\n\nThe term mixo-barbarous refers to the writing language of Modern Greek that was characterized with Hellenic phrases, ancient syntax and overall ancient mimic but combined with modern and foreign etymology applied to the vulgar dialect used by Greeks during and after the fall of Constantinople.\n"}
{"id": "16868509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16868509", "title": "Museum Store Company", "text": "Museum Store Company\n\nMuseum Store Company is an online retailer headquartered in Denver, Colorado, United States. It is an American company that sells reproductions of museum objects. The company was established as an online retailer in 1997.\n\nMuseum Store Company is one of the largest specialty retailers in the Museum and Historic Replica market. Museum Store Company.com was founded in 1997 under the TheArtifact.\n\nMuseumStoreCompany.com also functions as a marketplace for related merchandise under the brand Museum Stores Incorporated or Museum Stores Inc.(tm)\n\n\nThis site's products were featured in the Universal movie, \"Catwoman,\" and were used as featured accents in the TV show Extreme Makeover Home Edition. The site also provided products to Lotte World in Seoul, Korea for their Egyptian Exhibit. Several Egyptian products will be featured in the upcoming Warner Brothers movie \"The Watchman.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39295526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39295526", "title": "National Audiovisual Institute (Finland)", "text": "National Audiovisual Institute (Finland)\n\nNational Audiovisual Institute ( or ) is a governmental bureau under the Finnish Ministry of Education responsible for supervising the distribution of audiovisual content (including video games), advancing media education in Finland and archiving audiovisual material. The agency is tasked with maintaining and developing an online content rating system, training independent classifiers and supervising their operation.\n\nThe agency was formed in 2014 as a result of a merger between the National Audiovisual Archive (formerly Finnish Film Archive, established 1957) and the Finnish Board of Film Classification and its short-lived successor Centre for Media Education and Audiovisual Media (2012–2014).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2657525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2657525", "title": "Notable Last Facts", "text": "Notable Last Facts\n\nNotable Last Facts is a book published by the American librarian/writer William B. Brahms in 2004 and was the first relatively comprehensive collection of important lasts.\n\nAlthough that work mainly details American culture (TV, Radio, Sports are almost completely American examples), and to a lesser extent with European culture (in Art, Music and Transportation for example), some sections (Nations, Wars, Slavery, Voting, and Era & Empires for example) do have a broad international treatment. The smaller trivia books on \"lasts\" by Christopher Slee (cited below) have a treatment that is almost exclusively limited to the United Kingdom. Examples of \"Notable Last Facts\" include the last surviving participant or witness to a historic event, the last work produced by a major artist, author, performer or musician, or perhaps the last remaining example of a once-prevalent style or object, such as a type of architecture, or a make or model of an automobile, motorcycle, or airplane. Notable lasts are often used a finite demarcations of social, artistic and historical eras or periods. They also serve, often unintentionally, to mark advances, failures and change. In other fields of study, a notable last can be used to assist in dating objects, buildings and artifacts by helping to establish a terminus ante quem or a terminus post quem relative to the date of the notable last event. A differentiation is made between a simple \"last\" (which includes the last time something happened that will likely happen again—such as the last time there was an unassisted triple play in baseball or the last time it snowed in September in New York City) and a \"notable last\" (which are limited to concrete endings; thus not possible or highly improbable to ever happen again—such as a deceased composer's last work or the last act in a specific war that has ended).\n\n\"Lasts\" only became an area of study once the area of \"firsts\" (generally referred to as \"Famous Firsts\") was well established for decades. Today there are dozens of books that have been published about specific areas using the now established term, \"famous first...\" \"Famous Firsts\" are often heralded as news stories and may be documented with patents and even with celebrations. \"Firsts\" have been recorded for a long time and are a widely documented area of study, most particularly in the core library reference work \"Famous First Facts\" by Joseph Nathan Kane, first published by H. W. Wilson Company in 1933. Kane was the first to provide a comprehensive collation of \"famous firsts.\" To this day, with each subsequent edition released (now in its 5th edition), \"Kane's\" remains H.W. Wilson's largest-selling single volume reference work. Many of Kane's entries are actually rather obscure, so the term \"famous first\" can be misleading; they are more accurately termed \"notable;\" hence the term \"notable last\" was chosen for the study of lasts, rather than \"famous lasts.\" The term \"famous last\" could have not only a similarly misleading connotation, but also be potentially confused with the cautionary words of advice, \"famous last words\", often uttered sarcastically when an undertaking or prediction is made. Recognition of \"firsts\" has received more attention given the importance our society places on innovation, ingenuity and discovery. Thus, \"firsts\" are easier to research and authenticate. A \"last\", on the other hand, frequently is difficult to track down, as there is not an analogous historical record. A few small trivia books have compiled a limited number of \"lasts\" (particularly two small British works by Christopher Slee and a generalized work by trivia compiler Charles Panati). These are works that include general \"lasts,\" not only \"notable lasts\" as defined in the first substantial work on \"notable lasts\" called \"Notable Last Facts\" published by Reference Desk Press, Inc. by William B. Brahms in 2005. Brahms' work was recognized by the American Library Association publication Booklist as 2005's \"best addition to the trivia shelf\".\n\nMost commonly documented lasts include a last surviving veteran of a war, last speakers of extinct languages, or generally last surviving members of any type of formal, professional or cultural group. These are often brought to public attention at the time of death in an obituary or news story; frequently the facts that a person is a \"last\" of a group is the only obvious reason that their obituary or death notice would get national or international attention—a cultural phenomenon that underscores the interest in last. When such events occur they are often tagged with the phrase \"end of an era\". In terms of objects, last examples of architecture or building use or building architect are one potential criterion for inclusion in a State and National Register of Historic Places. Museums will often display last examples of particular objects, the last known work of a noted artist, or the stuffed remains of the last example of a species that has reached extinction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23001878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23001878", "title": "Piréz people", "text": "Piréz people\n\nThe Piréz people (Hungarian: Pirézek) are a fictional nation invented by Tárki, a Hungarian polling company, to measure attitudes regarding immigration.\n\nIn 2006 the Tárki Institute conducted a survey to assess Hungarian attitudes toward foreigners, asking if immigration should be controlled strictly. Some of the questions concerned the fictitious Piréz people. The survey revealed that, according to 61% of those who answered the questionnaire, immigration to Hungary should be controlled, and 59% opposed the immigration of the fictional Piréz.\n\nThe results of the survey, including the fact that \"Piréz\" people are fictitious, were widely reported in the Hungarian media.\n\nThe majority (61%) would consider allowing or disallowing immigration depending on a migrant's national origin (other respondents' views, whether in support of or opposed to immigration, took no account of migrants' origins). Those who thought distinctions on the grounds of origin should be made were highly dismissive of Arabs, 87% saying their migration should be restricted. 81% of them thought Chinese immigration should be controlled, and 68% disfavoured the immigration of the non-existing Piréz.\n\nOn January 29, 2018, Zoom.hu published the results of a poll created by Policy Agenda, where potential voters were asked whether they believe the \"Party of George Soros\" has the potential of winning the 2018 elections in Hungary - no such party exists or ever existed, yet only 24% of the answers indicated that they knew of this. The article, alluding to the Hungarian government's long running campaign against Soros, noted that \"Soros is the new Piréz\".\n"}
{"id": "31090523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31090523", "title": "Puellae", "text": "Puellae\n\nPuellae is a bronze sculpture by Magdalena Abakanowicz.\n\nConsisting of 30 figures, created in 1982, it originally showed at the Marlborough Gallery.\n\nIt was installed in 1999, at the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3129149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3129149", "title": "Readers' Guide to Periodical Literature", "text": "Readers' Guide to Periodical Literature\n\nThe Readers' Guide to Periodical Literature is a reference guide to recently published articles in periodical magazines and scholarly journals, organized by article subject. \"The Readers' Guide\" has been published regularly since 1901 by The H. W. Wilson Company, and is a staple of public and academic reference libraries throughout the United States; a retrospective index of general periodicals published from 1890 to 1982 is also available. \n\nOriginally, \"The Readers' Guide\" was published on a biweekly basis, with later issues incorporating the previous content in larger copies until the index for the entire year was published.\n\nThere are two online database versions of \"Reader's Guide\" available from H. W. Wilson Company: \"Readers' Guide to Periodical Literature\" which covers 1983 to the present, and \"Readers' Guide\" Retrospective: 1890–1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "2647181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2647181", "title": "Round-robin DNS", "text": "Round-robin DNS\n\nRound-robin DNS\nis a technique of load distribution, load balancing, or fault-tolerance provisioning multiple, redundant Internet Protocol service hosts, e.g., Web server, FTP servers, by managing the Domain Name System's (DNS) responses to address requests from client computers according to an appropriate statistical model.\n\nIn its simplest implementation, Round-robin DNS works by responding to DNS requests not only with a single potential IP address, but with one out of a list of potential IP addresses corresponding to several servers that host identical services. The order in which IP addresses from the list are returned is the basis for the term \"round robin\". With each DNS response, the IP address sequence in the list is permuted. Usually, basic IP clients attempt connections with the first address returned from a DNS query, so that on different connection attempts, clients would receive service from different providers, thus distributing the overall load among servers.\n\nThere is no standard procedure for deciding which address will be used by the requesting application, a few resolvers attempt to re-order the list to give priority to numerically \"closer\" networks. Some desktop clients do try alternate addresses after a connection timeout of 30–45 seconds.\n\nRound-robin DNS is often used to load balance requests between a number of Web servers. For example, a company has one domain name and three identical copies of the same web site residing on three servers with three different IP addresses. When one user accesses the home page it will be sent to the first IP address. The second user who accesses the home page will be sent to the next IP address, and the third user will be sent to the third IP address. In each case, once the IP address is given out, it goes to the end of the list. The fourth user, therefore, will be sent to the first IP address, and so forth.\n\nA round-robin DNS name is, on rare occasions, referred to as a \"rotor\" due to the rotation between alternative A records.\n\nAlthough easy to implement, round-robin DNS has a number of drawbacks, such as those arising from record caching in the DNS hierarchy itself, as well as client-side address caching and reuse, the combination of which can be difficult to manage. Round-robin DNS should not solely be relied upon for service availability. If a service at one of the addresses in the list fails, the DNS will continue to hand out that address and clients will still attempt to reach the inoperable service.\n\nAlso, it may not be the best choice for load balancing on its own, since it merely alternates the order of the address records each time a name server is queried. There is no consideration for transaction time, server load, network congestion, etc. Round-robin DNS load balancing works best for services with a large number of uniformly distributed connections to servers of equivalent capacity. Otherwise it just does load distribution.\n\nMethods exist to overcome such limitations. For example, modified DNS servers (such as lbnamed) can routinely poll mirrored servers for availability and load factor. If a server does not reply as required, the server can be temporarily removed from the DNS pool, until it reports that it is once again operating within specs.\n\n"}
{"id": "152951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152951", "title": "Science Museum, London", "text": "Science Museum, London\n\nThe Science Museum is a major museum on Exhibition Road in South Kensington, London. It was founded in 1857 and today is one of the city's major tourist attractions, attracting 3.3 million visitors annually.\n\nLike other publicly funded national museums in the United Kingdom, the Science Museum does not charge visitors for admission. Temporary exhibitions, however, may incur an admission fee. It is part of the Science Museum Group, having merged with the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester in 2012.\n\nA museum was founded in 1857 under Bennet Woodcroft from the collection of the Royal Society of Arts and surplus items from the Great Exhibition as part of the South Kensington Museum, together with what is now the Victoria and Albert Museum. It included a collection of machinery which became the \"Museum of Patents\" in 1858, and the \"Patent Office Museum\" in 1863. This collection contained many of the most famous exhibits of what is now the Science Museum. \n\nIn 1883, the contents of the Patent Office Museum were transferred to the South Kensington Museum. In 1885, the Science Collections were renamed the \"Science Museum\" and in 1893 a separate director was appointed. The Art Collections were renamed the \"Art Museum\", which eventually became the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\nWhen Queen Victoria laid the foundation stone for the new building for the Art Museum, she stipulated that the museum be renamed after herself and her late husband. This was initially applied to the whole museum, but when that new building finally opened ten years later, the title was confined to the Art Collections and the Science Collections had to be divorced from it. On 26 June 1909 the Science Museum, as an independent entity, came into existence. \n\nThe Science Museum's present quarters, designed by Sir Richard Allison, were opened to the public in stages over the period 1919–28. This building was known as the East Block, construction of which began in 1913 and temporarily halted by World War I. As the name suggests it was intended to be the first building of a much larger project, which was never realized. However, the Museum buildings were expanded over the following years; a pioneering Children's Gallery with interactive exhibits opened in 1931, the Centre Block was completed in 1961-3, the infill of the East Block and the construction of the Lower & Upper Wellcome Galleries in 1980, and the construction of the Wellcome Wing in 2000 result in the Museum now extending to Queen's Gate.\n\nThe Science Museum now holds a collection of over 300,000 items, including such famous items as Stephenson's Rocket, Puffing Billy (the oldest surviving steam locomotive), the first jet engine, a reconstruction of Francis Crick and James Watson's model of DNA, some of the earliest remaining steam engines (Including an example of a Newcomen steam engine, the world’s first steam engine), a working example of Charles Babbage's Difference engine, the first prototype of the 10,000-year Clock of the Long Now, and documentation of the first typewriter. It also contains hundreds of interactive exhibits. A recent addition is the IMAX 3D Cinema showing science and nature documentaries, most of them in 3-D, and the Wellcome Wing which focuses on digital technology. Entrance has been free since 1 December 2001.\n\nThe museum houses some of the many objects collected by Henry Wellcome around a medical theme. The fourth floor exhibit is called \"Glimpses of Medical History\", with reconstructions and dioramas of the history of practised medicine. The fifth floor gallery is called \"Science and the Art of Medicine\", with exhibits of medical instruments and practices from ancient days and from many countries. The collection is strong in clinical medicine, biosciences and public health. The museum is a member of the London Museums of Health & Medicine.\n\nThe Science Museum has a dedicated library, and until the 1960s was Britain's National Library for Science, Medicine and Technology. It holds runs of periodicals, early books and manuscripts, and is used by scholars worldwide. It was, for a number of years, run in conjunction with the Library of Imperial College, but in 2007 the Library was divided over two sites. Histories of science and biographies of scientists were kept at the Imperial College Library in London until February 2014 when the arrangement was terminated, the shelves were cleared and the books and journals shipped out, joining the rest of the collection, which includes original scientific works and archives, in Wroughton, Wiltshire. The Imperial College library catalogue search system now informs searchers that volumes formerly held there are . A new Research Centre with library facilities is promised for late 2015 but is unlikely to have book stacks nearby.\n\nThe Science Museum's medical collections have a global scope and coverage. Strengths include Clinical Medicine, Biosciences and Public Health. The new Wellcome Wing, with its focus on Bioscience, makes the Museum a leading world centre for the presentation of contemporary science to the public.\n\nSome 170,000 items which are not on current display are stored at Blythe House in West Kensington. Blythe House also houses facilities including a conservation laboratory, a photographic studio, and a quarantine area where newly arrived items are examined.\n\nIn November 2003, the Science Museum opened the Dana Centre. The centre is an urban bar and café annexed to the museum. It was designed by MJP Architects.\n\nIn October 2007, the Science Museum cancelled a talk by the co-discoverer of the structure of DNA, James D. Watson, because he claimed that IQ test results showed blacks to have lower intelligence than whites. The decision was criticised by some scientists, including Richard Dawkins, as well as supported by other scientists, including Steven Rose.\n\nAround 450,000 young people visit the Science Museum on educational trips or benefit from its outreach programmes each year, more than any other UK museum.\nThe Science Museum also organises \"Science Night\", \"all-night extravaganza with a scientific twist\". Up to 380 children aged between 8 and 11, accompanied by adults, are invited to spend an evening performing fun \"science based\" activities and then spend the night sleeping in the museum galleries amongst the exhibits. In the morning, they're woken to breakfast and more science, watching a film before the end of the event.\n\nOn the evening of the last Wednesday of every month (except December) the museum organises an adults only evening with up to 30 events, from lectures to silent discos. Previous Lates have seen conversations with the actress activist Lily Cole and Biorevolutions with the Francis Crick Institute which attracted around 7000 people, mostly under the age of 35.\n\nThe Science Museum is made up of a number of galleries, some of which are permanent, and some of which are temporary.\n\nThe East Hall is the first area that most visitors see as they enter the building, stretching up through three floors. On the ground, the area is mostly filled with iconic steam engines of various sorts, including the oldest surviving James Watt beam engine, which together tell the story of the British industrial revolution. Up in the air, suspended from the ceiling is a giant metallic ring, the inside of which is covered in white LEDs which form patterns and display messages typed into kiosks by visitors in the Energy gallery.\n\nAlso on display is a recreation of James Watt's garret workshop from his home, Heathfield Hall, using over 8,300 objects removed from the room, which was sealed after his 1819 death, when the hall was demolished in 1927.\n\n\"Exploring Space\" is a historical gallery, filled with rockets and exhibits that tell the story of human space exploration and the benefits that space exploration has brought us (particularly in the world of telecommunications).\n\n\"Making the Modern World\" is a relatively new gallery, in which some of the museum's most iconic objects, including Stephenson's Rocket, Watson and Crick's double helix, and an Apollo spacecraft, are imaginatively displayed along a timeline chronicling man's technological achievements.\n\n\"Flight\" is another longstanding gallery, up towards the western end of the third floor. Contained in the gallery are several full sized aeroplanes and helicopters, including Alcock and Brown's transatlantic Vickers Vimy (1919), Spitfire and Hurricane fighters, as well as numerous aero-engines and a cross-section of a Boeing 747.\n\nOne of the most popular galleries in the museum is the interactive Launchpad gallery. Redesigned and reopened in November 2007, the new look gallery houses over 50 interactive exhibits illustrating many different concepts in physical science. The gallery is staffed by Explainers who are available to demonstrate how exhibits work, conduct live experiments and perform shows to schools and the visiting public. Launchpad has now closed, the Science Museum are preparing a new Interactive gallery which opens in late 2016. The new gallery will be bigger than Launchpad and packed with state-of-the-art interactive exhibits.\n\nThis gallery is a collaboration between the Science Museum and the National Science and Media Museum in Bradford, home of a photography collection of more than three million images.\n\nThe landmark gallery explores the six networks that have transformed global communications: The Cable, The Telephone Exchange, Broadcast, The Constellation, The Cell and The Web/\n\nIt was opened on 24 October 2014 by the Queen, Elizabeth II, who sent her first tweet. It replaced the former Shipping galleries, on the second floor, which closed on 15 May 2012. Their contents were 3D scanned and made available online.\n\nA gallery which opened in December 2014 that aims to inspire school children to go into careers in engineering, developed with a consortium of companies and the Royal Academy of Engineering.\n\nThese range from the award-winning Codebreaker, on the life of Alan Turing, to Unlocking Lovelock, which explores the archive of James Lovelock.\n\nThe Science Museum has developed many touring exhibitions over the years. \"The Science Box\" contemporary science series toured various venues in the UK and Europe in the 1990s and from 1995 \"The Science of Sport\" appeared in various incarnations and venues around the World. In 2005 The Science Museum teamed up with Fleming Media to set up \"The Science of...\" who develop and tour exhibitions including \"The Science of Aliens\", \"The Science of Spying\" and \"The Science of Survival\"\n\nIn 2008, \"The Science of Survival\" exhibition opened to the public and allowed visitors to explore what the world might be like in 2050 and how humankind will meet the challenges of climate change and energy shortages.\n\nIn 2014 the museum launched the family science Energy Show, which toured the country.\n\nThe same year it began a new programme of touring exhibitions which opened with \"Collider: Step inside the world’s greatest experiment\" to much critical acclaim. The exhibition takes visitors behind the scenes at CERN and explores the science and engineering behind the discovery of the Higgs Boson. The exhibition will tour until early 2017.\n\nMedia Space exhibitions also go on tour, notably \"Only in England\" which displays works by the great photographers Tony Ray-Jones and Martin Parr.\n\nThe museum is adjacent to the Natural History Museum and used to be connected to it by a public corridor, which is now closed. The closest London Underground station is South Kensington; a subway connects the museums to the station.\n\nAt the front of the museum to the east is Exhibition Road. Immediately to the south is Museum Lane and the Natural History Museum. To the rear is Queen's Gate and to the north is Imperial College.\n\nThe Science Museum underwent a series of refurbishments as part of a vision to update the museum. The East Hall has been finished and the renovated museum shop opened in October 2005.\n\nThe Science Museum's website has a variety of features, including collections information and the award-winning Launchball game.\n\nThe museum joined the project in 2009 in a bid to reduce its carbon footprint. One year later it announced that it had reduced its carbon emissions (according to 10:10's criteria) by 17%.\n\nThe leading academic publisher Palgrave Macmillan published the official centenary history of the Science Museum on 14 April 2010. The first complete history of the Science Museum since 1957, \"Science for the Nation: Perspectives on the History of the Science Museum\" is a series of individual views by Science Museum staff and external academic historians of different aspects of the Science Museum's history. While it is not a chronological history in the conventional sense, the first five chapters cover the history of the museum from the Brompton Boilers in the 1860s to the opening of the Wellcome Wing in 2000. The remaining eight chapters cover a variety of themes concerning the Museum's development.\n\nThe Directors of the South Kensington Museum were:\n\nThe Directors of the Science Museum have been:\n\nThe following have been Head/Director of the Science Museum in London, not including its satellite museums:\n\nThe following have been Directors of the National Museum of Science and Industry, (since April 2012 renamed the Science Museum Group) which oversees the Science Museum and other related museums, from 2002:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58744444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58744444", "title": "Sexual Minorities Archive", "text": "Sexual Minorities Archive\n\nThe Sexual Minorities Archive is one of the longest continually operating archives of LGBT material in the United States, which holds the Leslie Feinberg Library, a collection of the late writer's personal research materials. The physical archive is located in a large converted Victorian home in Holyoke, MA as of 2017. It was located in the home of curator Ben Power in Northampton, MA from 1979 to 2017. It was founded in Chicago in 1974 by a lesbian-feminist organization known as the New Alexandria Lesbian Library.\n\nThe archive includes three types of materials related to literature, history, and art. The Literature collection \"spans more than a century and includes LGBTQI books (fiction and non-fiction), pulp paperbacks, reference books, over 1,000 periodical titles with 17,000 individual issues, and more.\" The History collection \"ranges from the mid-19th century and ... includes subject files, multimedia, personal papers, organizational collections, speeches, correspondence, ephemera, political and sociocultural buttons, and more.\" The Art collection \"includes original LGBTQI paintings and drawings, posters, banners, photography, sculpture, textiles, and music.\"\n\nAs of 2017, collection materials can be freely searched and viewed online through the Digital Transgender Archive, the largest digital archive of transgender materials in the world. \n\nSexual Minorities Archive official website\n\nSexual Minorities Archive on Digital Transgender Archive\n"}
{"id": "41265146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41265146", "title": "Sharon Patton", "text": "Sharon Patton\n\nSharon F. Patton is an American historian who specializes in African art. She was born in southern part of Chicago in 1944, where she received her bachelor's degree in 1966 from Roosevelt University. Patton attended University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana where she got her master's degree three years later. The same year, she became a student at the University of Chicago and by 1980 obtained her Ph.D. in the history of African art at the Northwestern University.\n\nIn 1968 she began her career as an instructor for the art department at Mankato State College in Minnesota where she taught African-American art. From 1971 to 1972 she was one of the faculties at the Lake Forest College and from 1972 to 1973 served at the Virginia Commonwealth University. In 1976 she worked at the University of Houston and from 1979 to 1985 she was a professor at the University of Maryland, which in the end, led her to become the art director at Monclair State College of New Jersey by 1986.\n\nIn 1987 she became a curator-in-chief of the Studio Museum in Harlem, New York. In 1991 she relocated to the University of Michigan where she worked as an associate professor. In 1998, Patton was named an art director of the Allen Memorial Art Museum which was a department of Oberlin College. In 2003, she relocated again, this time to Washington, D.C. where she worked as a director of the National Museum of African Art, a department of Smithsonian Institution.\n\nDuring her life she held 20 exhibitions, three of which were in \"Studio Museum\". Her first book \"Memory and Metaphor: The Art of Romare Bearden\" won the \"Choice’s Outstanding Academic Book of the Year Award\". She is also an author of 1983 published \"Traditional Forms and Modern Africa: West African Art at the University of Maryland\", a 1987 \"Witches, Demons and Metamorphoses\", and 1990s \"Vincent C. Smith, Reding on a Blue Note\".\n"}
{"id": "2074120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2074120", "title": "Shtriga", "text": "Shtriga\n\nA shtriga (, ; compare also and ) is a vampiric witch in traditional Albanian folklore that sucks the blood of infants at night while they sleep, and then turns into a flying insect (traditionally a moth, fly or bee). Only the shtriga herself could cure those she had drained. The shtriga is often pictured as a woman with a hateful stare (sometimes wearing a cape) and a horribly disfigured face. The male noun for \"shtriga\" is \"shtrigu\" or \"shtrigan\".\n\nAccording to legend, only the shtriga herself could cure those she had drained (often by spitting in their mouths), and those who were not cured inevitably sickened and died.\n\nThe name can be used to express that a person is evil. According to Northern Albanian folklore, a woman is not born a witch; she becomes one, often because she is childless or die made evil by envy. A strong belief in God could make people immune to a witch as He would protect them.\n\nUsually, shtriga were described as old or middle-aged women with grey, pale green, or pale blue eyes (called white eyes or pale eyes) (\"sybardha\") and a crooked nose. Their stare would make people uncomfortable, and people were supposed to avoid looking them directly in the eyes because they have the evil eye (\"syliga\"). To ward off a witch, people could take a pinch of salt in their fingers and touch their (closed) eyes, mouth, heart and the opposite part of the heart and the pit of the stomach and then throw the salt in direct flames saying \"\"syt i dalçin syt i plaçin\" or just whisper 3–6 times \"syt i dalçin syt i plaçin\" or \"plast syri keq\".\"\n\nIn some regions of Albania, people have used garlic (\"hudhër\"); to send away the evil eye or they have placed a puppet in a house being built to catch the evil. Newborns, children or beautiful girls have been said to catch the evil eye more easily, so in some Albanian regions when meeting such a person, especially a newborn, for the first time, people might say \"\"masha'alla\"\"h\"\" and touch the child's nose to show their benevolence and so that the evil eye would not catch the child.\n\nEdith Durham recorded several methods traditionally considered effective for defending oneself from shtriga. A cross made of pig bone could be placed at the entrance of a church on Easter Sunday, rendering any shtriga inside unable to leave. They could then be captured and killed at the threshold as they vainly attempted to pass. She further recorded the story that after draining blood from a victim, the shtriga would generally go off into the woods and regurgitate it. If a silver coin were to be soaked in that blood and wrapped in cloth, it would become an amulet offering permanent protection from any shtriga.\n\nIn Catholic legend, it is said that shtriga can be destroyed using holy water with a cross in it, and in Islamic myth it is said that shtriga can be sent away or killed by reciting verses from the Qur'an, specifically Ayatul Kursi 225 sura Al-Baqara, and spitting water on the shtriga.\n\nA shtriga was featured in the \"Supernatural\" episode, \"Something Wicked\", by hiding itself as a male doctor in a children's ward at a hospital where children have suddenly fallen comatose and where it can continue to feed.\n\nA shtriga was featured in the \"Lost Girl\" episode \"Follow the Yellow Trick Road.\" Bo's friends search for the creature after figuring out that the shtriga had bitten Bo in its moth form, leaving her comatose and dying as it feeds on her fears.\n\nGeralt of Rivia fought a shtriga in the Witcher novel 'The Last Wish' by Andrzej Sapkowski. The scene also takes place in the Witcher games.\n\nThe Shtriga appears in the \"Legends of Tomorrow\" episode \"Wet Hot American Bummer.\" This version is a swamp monster that is one of the escapees from Mallus' realm. Arriving in 1995, it attacks the children at Camp Ogawa and poses as a camp counselor named Chad Stephens (portrayed by Mason Trueblood). The Shtriga attacks inspired many films like \"Swamp Thaaaang.\" When the Legends arrived in 1995 and posed as camp counselors, they fought the Shtriga and killed it.\n\n"}
{"id": "51625169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51625169", "title": "Spinal Column (sculpture)", "text": "Spinal Column (sculpture)\n\nSpinal Column is a 1968 sculpture by Alexander Calder. It was commissioned for the San Diego Museum of Art in 1968 and was displayed in the May S. Marcy Sculpture Garden before being installed outside the museum. The work measures 118 in. x 100 in. x 90 in.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5807208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5807208", "title": "The Frost King", "text": "The Frost King\n\n\"The Frost King\" was a short story about King Jack Frost written by 12-year-old Helen Keller. Keller's teacher, Anne Sullivan, had mentioned that the autumn leaves were \"painted ruby, emerald, gold, crimson, and brown,\" and Keller, by her own account, imagined fairies doing the work. Keller wrote a story about how a cask of jewels, being transported by fairy servants, had melted in the sun and covered the leaves. As a birthday gift, Keller sent the story to Michael Anagnos, head of the Perkins School for the Blind, who published the story in \"The Mentor,\" the Perkins alumni magazine. It was picked up by \"The Goodson Gazette\", a journal on deaf-blind education, based in Virginia.\n\nA friend, one of the Perkins teachers informed the \"Gazette\" that Keller's story was a reproduction of \"Frost Fairies\", from Margaret Canby's book \"Birdie and His Fairy Friends.\"\n\n\"The Gazette\" ran both stories, and the editor commented that he believed it a deliberate attempt at fraud by Keller's handlers. Keller insisted she had no memory of having read the book or having had it read to her, but passages in her letters from the period, which she describes as \"dreams\", strongly resembled other episodes in the book.\n\nIn Sullivan's account of the incident, addressed to John Hitz of the Volta Bureau, she had investigated to see who could have read the story to Helen or even owned a copy of the book. It seemed her own mentor, Sophia Hopkins, had taken charge of the then eight-year-old Keller while Sullivan was on vacation, and had read the book to her through finger spelling. Keller stated that she remembered nothing of this, and she was devastated that people she had loved and trusted would accuse her of lying.\n\nAnagnos was apparently willing to believe that Keller had simply adapted the story from buried memories. However, Keller further discussed the matter with one of the Perkins teachers, and as she remembered it, \"something I said made her think she detected in my words a confession\" that she had knowingly plagiarized the story. The teacher's own detailed account, which was only discovered in 1978 and published in Joseph Lash's \"Helen and Teacher,\" confirms that Keller told her Sullivan had read her \"Frost Fairies\" the previous fall and that she had adapted her own story out of that one.\n\nBy all accounts, the teacher reported what Keller had told her to Anagnos. A storm of outrage swept through the school, apparently headed by the teachers. Keller's biographers, particularly Joseph P. Lash, suggest that they were also incensed by the fact that Sullivan and Keller used the facilities although they were neither employed by nor officially registered with the school.\n\nAn in-house \"trial\" ensued to determine whether or not Sullivan had deliberately falsified Keller's abilities; eight teachers interrogated the twelve-year-old child for two hours and fought the issue to a draw, the tie-breaking vote being cast by Anagnos in Keller's favor. Although Sullivan protested that \"all use of language is imitative, and one's style is made up of all other styles that one has met,\" and even Canby came forward to say that Keller's version was superior to her own, Anagnos never regained his faith in Sullivan or Keller and described them years later as \"a living lie.\" Keller had a nervous breakdown over the incident, and never wrote fiction again.\n\nIn 1978, an anonymously written typescript titled \"Miss Sullivan's Methods\" was uncovered at the Perkins Institute library. Joseph Lash describes it as an analysis of \"The Story of My Life,\" probably written by David Prescott Hall in 1906 just after the death of Michael Anagnos. The text identifies many of Keller's letters as containing paraphrases of Canby's writing, as well as verbatim passages. Keller and Sullivan cited some of these in their own explanation of what happened, and Sullivan stated several times Keller's writings at the time contained extensive paraphrases of either what she had read or what she had \"had\" read \"to\" her. The document also contains the text of the letter written by the Perkins teacher in which she transcribed the conversation with Keller that had led to the inquiry.\n\nLash believes the author of the document was trying to prove Sullivan, not Hopkins, had read \"Birdie and his Fairy Friends\" to Keller, and had done so that same autumn, not four years previously. He concludes that if this was the case:\n\n\nThe story was later published in Keller's 1903 biography with a complete analysis of both stories and the incident.\n\nAlso in 1903, Mark Twain described the controversy as \"owlishly idiotic and grotesque.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16235304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16235304", "title": "The Preservation Society of Chapel Hill", "text": "The Preservation Society of Chapel Hill\n\nThe Preservation Society of Chapel Hill (PSCH) is a tax-exempt, nonprofit organization located in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Founded in 1972 by Ida Friday (wife of William Friday) and Georgia Kyser (wife of Kay Kyser), the society works to save and restore Chapel Hill's natural and man-made, historic artifacts. PSCH is heavily involved in the preservation of local murals, rock walls, historic neighborhoods, and important local structures. In addition, the group works with the Town of Chapel Hill and other local governments to promote government zoning of historic locales and districts, and it promotes legislation that could aid conservationist efforts. To further increase the town's enthusiasm about its history, the society periodically gives tours of Chapel Hill's salient historic landmarks.\n\nThe Preservation Society is headquartered in the Horace Williams House, the only historic site in Chapel Hill open to the public year round. At this location, the organization hosts a variety of community events and art exhibitions, including theatrical productions, book readings, community art showings, musical performances, and \"lunchbox\" lectures.\n\nPSCH is located on 610 East Rosemary Street Chapel Hill, NC 27514.\n\nProfessor Henry Horace Williams, owner of the Horace Williams House, was a Professor of Philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill from 1890 until his death in 1940. After his death, his house was bequeathed to UNC, and it was eventually restored to its current condition in 1974. Construction of the house began around 1840, and the house was finished in its early stages by Benjamin Hendrick in 1854. The house then went through a series of prominent owners- Professor H. Hosea Smith acquired the house in 1857, and University President George T. Winston acquired it in 1879. Horace Williams, finally, gained possession of the property in 1897. Later structural additions to the house were completed in the 1850s and 1880s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2408760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2408760", "title": "The World's Writing Systems", "text": "The World's Writing Systems\n\nThe World's Writing Systems is a reference book about the world's writing systems. The book is edited by Peter T. Daniels and William Bright and was first published by Oxford University Press in 1996.\n\n\"The World's Writing Systems\" systematically explores most of the world's writing systems from the earliest times onwards. There are seventy-four signed articles, arranged in thirteen groups, with seventy-nine contributors (some articles have shared credit, while others merely consulted).\n"}
{"id": "28140686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28140686", "title": "Tungusic creation myth", "text": "Tungusic creation myth\n\nThe Tungusic creation myths are traditional stories of the creation of the world belonging to the Tungusic peoples of Siberia. \n\nIn one account of their creation myth initially there was a vast primordial ocean. Buga, their central deity, set fire to this water, and following a long struggle the flames consumed much of the water, exposing dry, hard land. Then Buga created the light and separated it from darkness, and descended to the newly created land. There he confronted Buninka, the devil, and a dispute arose between them over who had created the world. Buninka was spiteful and tried to injure Buga's creation.\n\nBuninka broke Buga's twelve-stringed lyre, and Buga angrily challenged Buninka to make a fir tree and raise it to stand fast and firm in the middle of the sea. Buga agreed he would bow to Buninka's powers if he could do so, but if he failed then Buga would subject himself to the same challenge. If Buga were then to succeed, Buninka must concede to Buga that he was the most powerful creator. Buninka agreed to the challenge and commanded a fir tree to rise from the sea. The tree grew, but it was weak and swayed to and fro, whilst Buga's tree was good. Buninka was forced to acknowledge Buga's greater power and bowed in homage. Buga put his hand to Buninka's head and turned it to iron. This caused so much pain in Buninka that he begged Buga for release, and Buga relented, releasing Buninka to be allowed to wander the earth on conditionhe did no harm to man.\n\nBuga then collected materials to make mankind. From the east he gathered iron; from the south fire; the west, water; and from the north, earth. From the earth he made flesh and bone; from the iron he made heart; from the water he made blood; and from the fire he gave them vitality, and thus he made two beings, a man and a woman.. After they had increased in numbers Buninka he wanted to claim half as his own. Buga refused to give him any of the living but Buninka was granted the vicious men and women after they had died, Buga keeping the virtuous to himself. So after death, the evil join Buninka in hell, which is in the center of the earth. Hell consisted of twelve caves, each with a different form of punishment.\n\nAlmost identical versions of this myth are recounted in and , but the creator is referred to as \"God\", and not 'Buga'. \n\nA similar myth of creation of man from four elements by Buga is given in from .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49364192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49364192", "title": "Vatican Film Library", "text": "Vatican Film Library\n\nThe Vatican Film Library is a film archive established in 1959 by Pope John XXIII. The collection comprises over 7,000 films including historic films, Church events, commercial films and documentaries.\n\nIt is to be distinguished from the Knights of Columbus Vatican Film Library at Saint Louis University.\n\n"}
{"id": "3817424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3817424", "title": "Vestmenn", "text": "Vestmenn\n\nVestmenn (\"Westmen\" in English) was the Old Norse word for the Gaels of Ireland and Britain, especially Ireland. Vestmannaeyjar in Iceland and Vestmanna in the Faroe Islands take their names from it. The Norse who settled in Ireland and Scotland, known now as the \"Norse–Gaels\", called themselves \"Austmenn\" \"Eastmen\", i.e. people who had come from the East (Scandinavia).\n\n"}
{"id": "54778408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54778408", "title": "Vishnu Nicolo Seal", "text": "Vishnu Nicolo Seal\n\nThe Vishnu Nicolo Seal is a famous seal (1.4 inches by 1.05 inch) from the Indian subcontinent, dated to the 4th-6th century CE. It is now located in the British Museum.\n\nThe seal depicts the four-armed god Vishnu, being prayed by a devotee. Vishnu holds his classical attributes: the gada club, the chakra discus, the wheel and the lotus.\n\nThe seal was first reported by Alexander Cunningham in The Numismatic Chonicle of 1893. Cunningham, saw in the devotee the Kushan ruler Huvishka, based on the similarity of the headdress.\n\nMore recent research, however, has permitted the complete deciphering of the seal by Ghirshman and given a different interpretation of the scene. The text on the seal is said to be the Kushan script and mentions three major Hindu gods:\n\nThis recent research also identified the devotee, not with Huvishka, but with a Huna king.\n\nThe seal also suggest that a composite cult of the three deities Surya (another name for Mihira, meaning \"Sun\"), Vishnu and Shiva was current in India circa 500 CE.\n"}
{"id": "30943713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30943713", "title": "Zonal safety analysis", "text": "Zonal safety analysis\n\nZonal Safety Analysis (ZSA) is one of three analytical methods which, taken together, form a Common Cause Analysis (CCA) in aircraft safety engineering under SAE ARP4761. The other two methods are Particular Risks Analysis (PRA) and Common Mode Analysis (CMA). Aircraft system safety requires the independence of failure conditions for multiple systems. Independent failures, represented by an AND gate in a fault tree analysis, have a low probability of occurring in the same flight. Common causes result in the loss of independence, which dramatically increases probability of failure. CCA and ZSA are used to find and eliminate or mitigate common causes for multiple failures.\n\nZSA is a method of ensuring that the equipment installations within each zone of an aircraft meet adequate safety standards with respect to design and installation standards, interference between systems, and maintenance errors. In those areas of the aeroplane where multiple systems and components are installed in close proximity, it should be ensured that the zonal analysis would identify any failure or malfunction which by itself is considered sustainable but which could have more serious effects when adversely affecting other adjacent systems or components. \n\nAircraft manufacturers divide the airframe into zones to support airworthiness regulations, the design process, and to plan and facilitate maintenance. The commonly used aviation standard ATA iSpec 2200, which replaced ATA Spec 100, contains guidelines for determining airplane zones and their numbering. Some manufacturers use ASD S1000D for the same purpose. The zones and subzones generally relate to physical barriers in the aircraft. A typical zone map for a small transport aircraft is shown.\nAircraft zones differ in usage, pressurization, temperature range, exposure to severe weather and lightning strikes, and the hazards contained such as ignition sources, flammable fluids, flammable vapors, or rotating machines. Accordingly, installation rules differ by zone. For example, installation requirements for wiring depends on whether it is installed in a fire zone, rotor burst zone, or cargo area.\n\nZSA includes verification that a system's equipment and interconnecting wires, cables, and hydraulic and pneumatic lines are installed in accordance with defined installation rules and segregation requirements. ZSA evaluates the potential for equipment interference. It also considers failure modes and maintenance errors that could have a cascading effect on systems, such as:\n\nPotential problems are identified and tracked for resolution. For example, if redundant channels of a data bus were routed through an area where rotorburst fragments could result in loss of all channels, at least one channel should be rerouted.\n\nOn July 19, 1989, United Airlines Flight 232, a McDonnell Douglas DC-10-10, experienced an uncontained failure of its No. 2 engine stage 1 fan rotor disk assembly. The engine fragments severed the No. 1 and No. 3 hydraulic system lines. Forces from the engine failure fractured the No. 2 hydraulic system line. With the loss of all three hydraulic-powered flight control systems, safe landing was impossible. The lack of independence of the three hydraulic systems, although physically isolated, left them vulnerable to a single failure event due to their close proximity to one another. This was a zonal hazard. The aircraft crashed after diversion to Sioux Gateway Airport in Sioux City, Iowa, with 111 fatalities, 47 serious injuries and 125 minor injuries.\n\nOn August 12, 1985, Japan Air Lines Flight 123, a Boeing 747-SR100, experienced cabin decompression 12 minutes after takeoff from Haneda Airport in Tokyo, Japan, at 24,000 feet. The decompression was caused by failure of a previously repaired aft pressure bulkhead. Cabin air rushed into the unpressurized fuselage cavity, overpressurizing the area and causing failure of the auxiliary power unit (APU) firewall and the supporting structure for the vertical fin. The vertical fin separated from the airplane. Hydraulic components located in the aft body were also severed, leading to a rapid depletion of all four hydraulic systems. The loss of the vertical fin, coupled with the loss of all four hydraulic systems, left the airplane extremely difficult, if not impossible, to control in all three axes. Lack of independence of four hydraulic systems from a single failure event was a zonal hazard. The aircraft struck a mountain at forty-six minutes after takeoff with 520 fatalities and 4 survivors.\n"}
