{"id": "16152114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16152114", "title": "1213 Algeria", "text": "1213 Algeria\n\n1213 Algeria, provisional designation , is a carbonaceous asteroid from the outer region of the asteroid belt, approximately 32 kilometers in diameter. Discovered by Guy Reiss at Algiers Observatory in 1931, it was named after the North African country of Algeria.\n\n\"Algeria\" was discovered by French astronomer Guy Reiss at the North African Algiers Observatory on 5 December 1931. Three nights later, the body was independently discovered by Belgian–American astronomer George Van Biesbroeck at the U.S. Yerkes Observatory in Wisconsin.\n\nA first precovery was taken at Yerkes Observatory, extending the \"Algeria\"s observation arc by just 16 days prior to its official discovery observation.\n\nThe dark asteroid orbits the Sun in the outer main-belt at a distance of 2.7–3.5 AU once every 5 years and 7 months (2,035 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.13 and an inclination of 13° with respect to the ecliptic.\n\nA rotational lightcurve of \"Algeria\" was obtained from photometric observations made by French amateur astronomer Claudine Rinner in August 2002. Lightcurve analysis gave a rotation period of 16 hours with a brightness variation of 0.19 magnitude ().\n\nAccording to the space-based surveys carried out by the Infrared Astronomical Satellite IRAS, the Japanese Akari satellite, and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, \"Algeria\" measures between 29.2 and 34.5 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo in the range of 0.057 to 0.093.\n\nThe \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" derives an albedo of 0.059 and a diameter of 33.1 kilometers with an absolute magnitude of 11.1, and characterizes it as a C-type asteroid.\n\nThis minor planet was named in honour of the North African country Algeria, location of the discovering observatory and a French colony at the time. Naming citation was published before 1977 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "8221171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8221171", "title": "A4074 road", "text": "A4074 road\n\nThe A4074 is a British A road from the Reading suburb of Caversham to the Heyford Hill roundabout on the Oxford Ring Road. \n\nThe road starts from a junction with the A4155 close to the northern side of Caversham Bridge (over the River Thames) before climbing through the up-market residential area of Caversham Heights. Crossing the Reading Borough boundary, the road proceeds through the small community of Chazey Heath, where it enters thick woodland for several miles before emerging near the village of Woodcote. From here it crosses the more exposed ground of the Chiltern Hills before bypassing both Wallingford and Crowmarsh Gifford on the Wallingford bypass. It then passes by Benson, passes through Shillingford, bypasses Dorchester and passes through Nuneham Courtenay. The road becomes dual-carriageway as it passes Sandford-on-Thames and remains so to its terminus on the Oxford Ring Road at the Heyford Hill roundabout.\n\nThe road was designated in the 1980s , when the B479 between Caversham and Crowmarsh Gifford was renumbered. In 1990 the A423 from Crowmarsh to Heyford Hill was renumbered the A4074, and the road became the primary route between Reading and Oxford in place of the A329 along the River Thames. The short stretch of the Oxford Ring Road between Heyford Hill and the Hinksey Hill interchange was not renumbered A4074, and remains an isolated fragment of the A423.\n\nThe poor safety record of a particular stretch of this road, roughly between Chazey Heath and Woodcote, is highlighted in its local nickname, \"The 13 Bends of Death\". Its accident rate of 53 per 100 million vehicle kilometres is nearly 70% higher than average for roads of its type.\n\nThe Thames Travel company operates a half-hourly bus service numbered between Reading and Oxford along the A4074, albeit passing through the centre of Wallingford rather than using the by-pass. Alternate buses are numbered X39 and X40, with the X40 also diverting from the main road to serve Woodcote.\n\n"}
{"id": "39211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39211", "title": "Albury–Wodonga", "text": "Albury–Wodonga\n\nAlbury–Wodonga is the broad settlement incorporating the twin Australian cities of Albury and Wodonga, which are separated geographically by the Murray River and politically by a state border: Albury on the north of the river is part of New South Wales while Wodonga on the south bank is in Victoria.\n\nAlthough in many senses the centre operates as one community, it has parallel municipal governments and state government services. However, the fact that Melbourne is significantly closer than Sydney and the fact that Victorian radio and television broadcasts in the region, resulting (among other things) in the predominance of Australian rules football in the local media outlets, gives Albury close cultural and social links to Victoria, despite its location in southern New South Wales.\n\nAlbury–Wodonga was selected as the primary focus of the federal Whitlam government's scheme to arrest the uncontrolled growth of Australia's large coastal cities (Sydney and Melbourne in particular) by encouraging decentralisation. Grand plans were made to turn Albury–Wodonga into a major inland city. Some industries were enticed to move there, and a certain amount of population movement resulted. However, due to the subsequent Fraser Government's repudiation of Labor's decentralisation policies, the plan to populate inland areas and cities other than the State capitals was abandoned. No other Commonwealth Government since, either conservative or Labor, has made any attempt at repopulating inland areas. Thus the current Albury–Wodonga population is far below the 300,000 projected by Gough Whitlam in the 1970s. The population increased by 1.1% per year on average from 81,540 in 2008 to 86,274 in 2013. \n\nThe industrial employment sector has meant that Albury–Wodonga, unusually for an Australian inland city, is not dependent on agriculture. According to the most recently available figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the average income of the Albury area is $36K per year, below the $42K average for the state of New South Wales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43872871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43872871", "title": "Arab Forum for Environment and Development", "text": "Arab Forum for Environment and Development\n\nThe Arab Forum for Environment and Development (AFED) () is a not-for-profit regional non-governmental organization, membership-based organization headquartered in Beirut, Lebanon, with the status of international organization; grouping experts together with the civil society, business community and media, to promote prudent environmental policies and programmes across the Arab region. \n\nWhile it maintains its character as a non-governmental organization, AFED admits, in the capacity of observers, national, regional and international bodies working in the fields of environment and sustainable development. It has been endorsed by the League of Arab States (LAS) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).\n\nAFED was officially proclaimed in Beirut on 17 June 2006, at the conclusion of a regional conference on Public Opinion and the Environment, organized by Al-Bia Wal-Tanmia (Environment & Development magazine). The initiative, which started in 2001 by Al-Bia Wal-Tanmia publisher Najib Saab as an informal gathering of the magazine’s region-wide readers, was established as a regional organization on the occasion of its tenth anniversary. AFED has subsequently earned the status of international non-governmental organization, with the associated amenities for its secretariat based in Beirut. Al-Bia Wal-Tanmia magazine became an organ of AFED as of January 2013, after Saab turned it over to the pan-Arab organization.\n\nSince 2007, AFED has been a public forum for influential eco-advocates. During six years, it has become a major dynamic player in the environmental arena. AFED works towards bringing together all parties concerned with environment and development in the Arab world to discuss regional and national issues related to the environment, in view of local and global changes, emphasizing the pivotal role of civil society and the private sector. It groups regional environmental organizations and experts with leading academic institutions, media and the business community, on common debate grounds to further the cause of environment and sustainable development.\n\nThe Forum, which cooperates with regional and international institutions, aims at spreading environmental awareness through promoting sensible information and education programmes, as well as supporting civil society organizations active in the environmental sector.\n\nAFED aims at encouraging Arab societies to protect the environment and use natural resources in a sensible manner resulting in sustainable development. An independent periodic report on the State of Arab Environment (SAE) is yearly produced by AFED, to be presented to the General Assembly of the Forum. The high-level annual forum is designed to attract participants from the private and public sectors, academia, experts, media and civil society.\n\n\nAFED works to achieve its goals through the following course:\n\n\nThe Arab Forum for Environment and Development is governed by a Board of Trustees, representing environmental experts alongside business, media, and civil society leaders. The Board of Trustees elects an Executive Committee that includes a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary General, Treasurer and members. It also appoints honorary members and an external auditor. It meets annually to decide on AFED policies, programs, and budget. The Executive Committee oversees the overall management of AFED, including programs and finance, and meets at least twice a year. Responsibility for the daily management of AFED lies with the Secretary General, assisted by a core secretariat.\n\nAFED funds come from:\n\n\nAs a not-for-profit organization, any surplus capital is invested in new initiatives or existing programs.\n\nProspective members and observers must submit their applications to AFED Executive Committee, which will consider each case according to the set criteria. Membership continues as long as a member meets the criteria and pays the annual dues. AFED membership is open to all those committed to the goals of sustainable development in Arab countries. The main requirement is acceptance and adoption of AFED mission statement, and commitment to help achieve AFED goals. AFED provides a platform to address and reach a wider audience, in public and private sectors, while allowing networking, exchange of expertise, and exposure to similar initiatives around the world. Working together in such a unique partnership allows members to advance their knowledge of emerging trends and business strategies, while serving a good social and environmental cause. In turn, these efforts will contribute to empowering Arab countries and societies to better tackle the challenges of an increasingly complex world, and embrace the transition to a green economy, that will lead to recession-proof growth, economic vitality, and welfare of Arab societies.\n\n\"AFED membership is institutional\"\nIn five years, 110 institutional members joined AFED, including: 40 corporate members, 24 NGOs including one political Green party, 12 universities and research centers, 24 media organizations, and 10 government agencies as observers.\n\nBusinesses active in the Arab region, which are willing to advocate, promote, and adopt policies of sustainable development.\n\nBroadcast and print media which commit to promoting public awareness of environmental issues and furthering of the AFED mission\n\nRepresenting grassroots leadership in mobilizing the public to support environmental causes, as well as advising and pressuring the public sector on these issues.\n\nOffering educational and research programs related to various aspects of environment and sustainable development.\n\nNational, regional, and international governmental and inter-governmental bodies, whose mandates cover environment and sustainable development issues.\n\nAFED released seven reports covering environmental issues in the Arab world:\n\n\nAFED’s expert-written, policy oriented annual reports have become the main reference on the state of Arab environment. Findings and recommendations have been endorsed by national and regional bodies. Alongside the original Arabic and English editions, the reports were translated into other languages, including Japanese and Spanish. AFED’s reports can be downloaded from AFED website.\n\nThe most recent AFED convention, held in Sharjah, UAE, in October 2013, brought together over 600 delegates from the public and private sectors, scientists, civil society and media, who engaged in an open debate on Sustainable Energy in the Arab region. The 2012 convention, in Beirut, tackled Survival Options and Ecological Footprint. The 2011 convention discussed Green Economy, while the 2010 convention debated AFED’s report Water: Sustainable Management of a Scarce Resource. The 2009 convention discussed the impact of climate change on Arab countries. The first 2008 convention in Bahrain tackled future environmental challenges. All AFED conventions issue recommendations for action, which are discussed with governments and other stakeholders, and in many cases have contributed to changes in national policies.\n\nAFED and ‘’Al-Bia Wal-Tanmia’’ (Environment and Development magazine) launched, in March 2013, the first comprehensive online environmental portal in Arabic, making over 35,000 pages of references freely available to readers and researchers. The domain includes a full archive of the magazine contents during the past 18 years. The website is updated daily with news, information and commentaries. The domain’s name www.afedmag.com (AFED magazine) reflects a new epoch of the magazine, which became an organ of AFED as of January 2013, after its publisher Najib Saab turned it over to the pan-Arab organization.\n\nAFED produced six documentaries.\n\n\nAFED continues to support the capacity building initiatives of its member NGOs, as well as its awareness campaigns, school competitions, and training of journalists.\n\nAFED has developed a comprehensive environmental education program, supported by a wide-ranging handbook. It provides all material needed to initiate environment activities at schools and incorporate environment in the curricula. Each of the 2 topics is supported by graphics, posters, documentaries, songs and plays, all available online. AFED program includes developing curricula at the national levels and teacher training workshops.\n\nIn May 2009, AFED launched the Arab Green Economy Initiative (AGEI), designed to facilitate the transition of governments and businesses to more environment-friendly practices. The AGEI covers: Public Policy Recommendations, Economics of Eco-system Investing, Corporate Environmental Responsibility (CER), New Business Workshops, Sustainability Reporting, and Web-based Consumer Education. AFED carried out workshops for stakeholders in seven Arab countries to kick-start the AGEI program and select priorities. The 2011 AFED report Green Economy: Sustainable Transition in a Changing Arab World was one component of the initiative. Other components are 2 handbooks which AFED produced and are in use across the region, on:\n\n\nIn January 2012, the UAE announced its national initiative «Green Economy for Sustainable Development”.\n\nAFED launched its Corporate Environmental Responsibility (CER) initiative in Abu Dhabi, on 29 November 2007, at the conclusion of the Arab CER Summit, organized by AFED and Environment Agency Abu Dhabi (EAD). Over 120 CEOs, representing major business sectors from across the Arab world, have committed to advance the principles of environmental responsibility and cleaner production, and set a target to reduce energy and water consumption by 20% in their operations by 2012. The CER program works with business enterprises to institutionalize environmental thinking and action in corporate decision making. It also aims at developing a comprehensible roadmap for navigating a transition to environmental responsibility, by integrating environmental goals more effectively into core business operations and strategy.\n\nAFED has contributed to over 200 regional and international meetings, reports and programs. Its reports, recommendations and initiatives have been discussed and considered at high-level regional and international meetings, including UNEP, the Council of Arab Ministers Responsible for Environment (CAMRE), the World Bank, ESCWA and ILO. AFED gained observer status with UNFCCC, UNEP and LAS.\n\nPresident, World Resources Institute (WRI)\n\n“I have seen many environmental organizations in my time and I think the combination that AFED brings is absolutely best practice. You bring a sharp pencil of analysis, together with the right mix of people: private sector, government, academic, civil society, financiers; because we need all hands on deck if we are going to solve the problem. This part of the world has given to all of us two extraordinary leaders in environment. One is Mustafa Kamal Tolba who was the executive director of UNEP and who has been a precursor in these events; and the other one is, Mohamed El-Ashry, who led GEF, the Global Environmental Facility, and who has been a leader in every thought process dealing with the transition to low carbon. It is not just a coincidence that both are AFED veterans.”\n\nCenter for Near and Middle Eastern Studies (CNMS), The Philipp University of Marburg, Germany\n\n“AFED reports have been a valuable source of information and inspiration to my students when learning about the Arab region”\n\nFormer President of Costa Rica and Chairman of the Carbon War Room\n\n“The report which has been put out by AFED constitutes a very good footprint for action. And action it is what we are convened to undertake in the world of today.\"\n\nInterested in joining regional efforts to save the environment in the Arab world? Anxious to lead the combat against environmental challenges threatening our security and hampering our socio-economic development? The Arab Forum for Environment and Development (AFED) offers you this opportunity! Join AFED to network and cooperate with business pioneers, public leaders, scientists, civil society organizations, and media from across the region, and contribute to the environmental decision making process and formulation of future strategies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2786613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2786613", "title": "Cape Penck", "text": "Cape Penck\n\nCape Penck is an ice-covered point fronting on the West Ice Shelf about 35 miles west-northwest of Gaussberg, separating the Leopold and Astrid Coast from the Wilhelm II Coast. It was roughly charted by the Western Base Party of the Australasian Antarctic Expedition, 1911–14, under Mawson, and named for Albrecht Penck, an internationally known German geographer.\n"}
{"id": "2745367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2745367", "title": "Chief Minister of Anguilla", "text": "Chief Minister of Anguilla\n\nThe Chief Minister of Anguilla is the head of government in the British Overseas Territory of Anguilla. The Chief Minister is appointed by the Governor of Anguilla on behalf of the Monarchy of the United Kingdom, currently Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nThe current Chief Minister is Victor Banks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1564855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1564855", "title": "Environmental Defense Fund", "text": "Environmental Defense Fund\n\nEnvironmental Defense Fund or EDF (formerly known as Environmental Defense) is a United States-based nonprofit environmental advocacy group. The group is known for its work on issues including global warming, ecosystem restoration, oceans, and human health, and advocates using sound science, economics and law to find environmental solutions that work. It is nonpartisan, and its work often advocates market-based solutions to environmental problems.\n\nThe group's headquarters are in New York City, with offices across the US, with scientists and policy specialists working worldwide. Regional offices more focused on local issues and policies include Austin, Texas; Boston; Boulder, Colorado; Los Angeles; Raleigh, North Carolina; Sacramento, California; San Francisco; Washington, D.C.\n\nFred Krupp has served as its president since 1984. In May 2011 Krupp was among a group of experts named by US Department of Energy Secretary Steven Chu to a subcommittee of the Energy Advisory Board that was charged with making recommendations to improve the safety and environmental performance of natural gas hydraulic fracturing from shale formations. The subcommittee issued an interim report in August and its final report in November of the same year.\n\nIn 1991, \"The Economist\" called EDF \"America's most economically literate green campaigners.\" The organization was ranked first among environmental groups in a 2007 \"Financial Times\" global study of 850 business-nonprofit partnerships, and received a four-star rating from Charity Navigator, an independent charity evaluator.\n\nThe organization's founders, including Art Cooley, George Woodwell, Charles Wurster, Dennis Puleston, Victor Yannacone and Robert Smolker, discovered in the mid-1960s that the osprey and other large raptors were rapidly disappearing. Their research uncovered a link between the spraying of DDT to kill mosquitos and thinning egg shells of large birds. Their research was most likely based on the book \"Silent Spring\" by Rachel Carson about the dangers of DDT and the effects that it had on birds, published in 1962. Carson, who died in 1964, is noted as the scientist who inspired the environmental movement. The founders of EDF successfully sought a ban on DDT in Suffolk County, Long Island, New York. They then succeeded in banning DDT statewide. They then took their efforts nationally.\n\nIn looking back at passage of the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, top EPA officials responsible for implementing the law recall that EDF published a statistical study that supported a link between organic contaminants and cancer rates in the City of New Orleans, a study that received a tremendous amount of media attention and certainly contributed to the enactment of the law.\n\nOn April 11, 2018, the group announced plans for MethaneSAT, a satellite to help identify global methane emissions, concentrating on the 50 major oil and gas regions responsible for 80% of methane production. Plans are for the satellite to launch in late 2020 or early 2021 and EDF says it will make the data public. The goal is to help reduce methane emissions by 45% by 2025. Funding for the project comes from The Audacious Project, an initiative of the worldwide TED conference group. While MethaneSAT will offer a big-picture view, a complementary satellite by the California Air Resources Board will help identify point-source greenhouse gas emissions. The CARB satellite project was announced in September 2018 at the Global Climate Action Summit in San Francisco by California Governor Jerry Brown: “With science still under attack and the climate threat growing, we’re launching our own damn satellite\". Satellite partner Planet has experience with hundreds of satellite launches in the past few years; no launch date was offered.\n\n\nKey accomplishments of Environmental Defense Fund include:\n\n\nEDF has drawn criticism for its ties to large corporations including McDonald's, FedEx, Walmart, and the Texas energy company TXU, with which the organization has negotiated to reduce emissions and develop more environmentally friendly business practices. EDF's philosophy is that it is willing to talk with big business and try new approaches in order to get environmental results.\n\nA 2009 op-ed piece by the Pacific Coast Federation of Fisherman's Association in the trade journal \"Fishermen's News\" argues that EDF's approach to fisheries policy in the Pacific Northwest is likely to damage smaller, local operators who have an interest in protecting fisheries and limiting by-catch. Many fisherman fear that the approach gives a competitive advantage to larger, non-local operations, jeopardizing independent operators, including boats, fisheries, and ports.\n\nEDF argues that the way we manage our fisheries needs to change if we want to protect fishermen, fish, and coastal communities. In a report suggesting economic waste in some of the world's commercial fisheries, EDF advocates an approach: catch shares, which sets a scientifically based limit on the total amount of fish that can be caught; that amount is then divided among individuals or groups, who can sell their shares or lease them to fishermen. EDF suggests that concern about consolidation or corporate ownership of fisheries is unwarranted.\n\nEDF has been accused of funding and disseminating studies that utilize questionable science and economics in their promotion of catch share fishery management. Also, they have employed substantial political lobbying to promote fisheries policies that tend to force out smaller fishing businesses in favor of consolidated, corporate owned fleets, while denying any adverse effects these programs have on fishing families and communities.\n\nEDF has held meetings with private investors where their West Coast vice president, David Festa, promoted the purchase of fishing rights as an investment that can yield 400% profits, and \"options value\" despite its claims that these rights are designed to provide financial incentives for the fishermen themselves. Multiple non-profit organizations have expressed repeated frustrations with EDF and its promotion of these management policies. Recent studies show that despite EDF's claims, catch shares do not end overfishing and typically result in no long term environmental gains.\n\nThe Environmental Defense Fund supports the Rigs-to-Reefs program in the Gulf of Mexico, in which former offshore oil production platforms are converted to permanent artificial reefs. The EDF sees the program as a way to preserve the existing reef habitat of the oil platforms.\n\nEDF sees natural gas as a way to quickly replace coal, with the idea that gas in time will be replaced by renewable energy. The organization presses for stricter environmental controls on gas drilling and hydraulic fracturing, without banning them. In November 2013, after negotiations with the oil industry, EDF representatives joined spokesmen for Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Noble Energy, and Encana, to endorse Colorado governor John Hickenlooper's proposed tighter regulation of emissions of volatile organic compounds by oil and gas production. EDF has funded studies jointly with the petroleum industry on the environmental effects of natural gas production. The policy has been criticized by some environmentalists. EDF counsel and blogger Mark Brownstein answered:\n\nDemand for natural gas is not going away, and neither is hydraulic fracturing. We must be clear-eyed about this, and fight to protect public health and the environment from unacceptable impacts. We must also work hard to put policies in place that ensure that natural gas serves as an enabler of renewable power generation, not an impediment to it. We fear that those who oppose all natural gas production everywhere are, in effect, making it harder for the U.S. economy to wean itself from dirty coal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52193988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52193988", "title": "Fred Roots", "text": "Fred Roots\n\nErnest Frederick \"Fred\" Roots (5 July 1923 – 18 October 2016) was a Canadian geologist, polar explorer, educator and public servant. After graduating with undergraduate and master's degrees in geology from the University of British Columbia and a doctorate from Princeton University, Roots joined the Scott Polar Research Institute and was appointed Chief Geologist for the 1949 to 1952 Norwegian–British–Swedish Antarctic Expedition. During the expedition, in addition to ground-breaking geological and glaciological research studies, he made a 189-day, unsupported dog sled journey across the continent; a record that still stood at the time of his death over six decades later. On his return to Canada he joined the Geological Survey of Canada with whom he served as a field geologist until 1958, when he left to help found the Polar Continental Shelf Program. After 14 years with PCSP, Roots left to act as science advisor to the newly created federal Department of the Environment, where he remained on staff until 1989. After retirement, Roots remained an active participant in polar research, and also became a key mentor within the Students on Ice educational program. He continued to participate in expeditions for Students on Ice well into his tenth decade, his last being to Greenland only two months before his death.\n\nFred Roots was born in Salmon Arm, in the Shuswap Country of southern British Columbia, Canada, on 5 July 1923. He was the second child of Margaret and Ernest Roots. His father was an engineer with the Canadian Pacific Railway, and while Fred was a small child the family moved to Banff, Alberta, when Ernest was appointed Chief Engineer at the company's Banff Springs Hotel. As a result, Roots spent much of his childhood surrounded by the high ranges of the Canadian Rockies. Growing up among the mountains instilled in Roots a lasting love of outdoor exploration and geology.\n\nHowever, when Roots was only eight years old his father died from typhoid fever, leaving his mother to bring up the family's three children on her own. As a young high school student Roots was appointed as an assistant meteorological observer for the Banff National Park. His duties involved climbing to the summit of a mountain within the park, to service the weather observation station located there. Later in his high school career he moved west to Vancouver, and completed his schooling at Vancouver Technical College.\n\nDuring the Second World War he was a student the University of British Columbia, from where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in geological engineering. He remained at the same institution to continue his postgraduate education, and completed a master's degree thesis on the geology of the Aiken Lake map-area, in the Cassiar Mountains of northern British Columbia, in 1947. It was during this work that he first became involved with the Geological Survey of Canada (GSC), as he worked alongside the survey's staff geologist J.E. Armstrong to map the mineral-rich district. The same district provided the subject matter for his doctoral research which followed at Princeton University, from where he graduated with a Ph.D. degree in 1950.\n\nIn 1949, at the age of 26, Roots was appointed Chief Geologist for the Norwegian–British–Swedish Antarctic Expedition, the first exploratory expedition to Antarctica to involve an international team of scientists. Roots's role was to study the geology of Queen Maud Land, which he showed was a conjugate part of and had once been attached to the east coast of southern Africa. In addition to his geological observations, Roots also helped to show that the glaciers of Antarctica had once been much more extensive, and that the phenomenon of climate change was a global effect and not limited to discrete locations. During the course of the expedition, Roots undertook a 189-day, unsupported dog sled journey across the continent. This feat of endurance remained a record even at the time of his death, over six decades later. For the rest of his life, Roots regularly wore a belt made from leather taken from the traces of his lead dog of that expedition, Rachel.\n\nFollowing his return from the southern hemisphere in 1952, Roots completed the remainder of his fellowship at the Scott Polar Research Institute at Cambridge University. It was during this time that he met and fell in love with one of the Institute's librarians, June Blomfield, herself a highly educated geographer and passionate outdoorswoman.\n\nAt the end of his fellowship in Cambridge, Roots was appointed as a field geologist with the GSC, based at the survey's head office in Ottawa, Ontario. His first major publication for the survey in 1953 was essentially a reworking of his extensive research in the Cassiar Mountains, conducted during his MSc and PhD studies, but he rapidly became a part of the GSC's active field research programs at the time. Fred and June eventually married in 1955, and June moved out to Canada to be with her new husband.\n\nUnder Y.O. Fortier, he was co-leader of the GSC's Operation Franklin in 1955, that first established the potential for economic petroleum deposits in the high Arctic islands of Canada. Between 1956 and 1958 Roots was, in turn, head of Operation Stikine, the GSC's first systematic attempt to map the geology of the northern portion of the Canadian Cordillera of British Columbia and Yukon.\n\nIn 1958, Roots left the GSC to become the founding head of the Government of Canada's new Polar Continental Shelf Program (PCSP). PCSP was set up to promote research in Canada's Arctic north, principally by providing logistical and practical support for government and academic scientists active in the area, and Roots had largely been responsible for conceiving of and establishing the novel organization. During his time with PCSP, Roots was a key part of the team that outlined the need for a permanent establishment to conduct research on the icefields of the Kluane National Park of southwest Yukon, part of the largest non-polar icefield in the world. In the years that followed, the Kluane Lake Research Station also became a hub for exploration across Canada's north, and Roots himself used it as a base from which to organize expeditions through the Saint Elias Mountains, Canada's highest mountain range, as part of the Canadian Centennial celebrations in 1967. Roots served as head of PCSP for 14 years, until 1971, when he left to join what was to eventually become Environment Canada.\n\nAt the time, the newly established government department was in a state of flux. As science advisor to the Minister of the Environment, Roots was instrumental in helping design the department's structure and objectives, and has been credited with giving it \"the scientific credibility, the moral authority and knowledge that enabled it to play its role.\" He remained with Environment Canada until his retirement from public service in 1989, and subsequently retained a role with the department as an emeritus scientist and advisor until 2003.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Roots and his wife moved back to British Columbia from their home in Gatineau, Quebec.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, at a meeting of the Canadian Polar Commission in Ottawa, Roots met explorer and educator Geoff Green. At the time, Green was attempting to launch a new educational initiative aimed at providing opportunities for secondary school students to visit and explore polar regions. The scheme, Students on Ice, struck a chord with Roots and he agreed to support its formation. Green has credited Roots with being one of the program's \"founding fathers\". Over the following two decades, Roots participated in many polar expeditions for Students on Ice, and acted as a mentor to hundreds of students from around the world.\n\nRoots's final Arctic exploration was as part of a Students on Ice expedition to Greenland in August 2016. Later the same month he travelled to New York to receive the Explorers Club Medal from The Explorers Club. Previous recipients of the award include explorers Sir Edmund Hillary and Roald Amundsen, primatologist Jane Goodall, and astronaut Neil Armstrong.\n\nE.F. \"Fred\" Roots died peacefully in his sleep at home in East Sooke on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, on 18 October 2016. He was 93 years old. He was survived by June and four of their five children. He was predeceased earlier the same year by his son, Charlie Roots, who had himself been a geologist and explorer with the Geological Survey of Canada.\n\nDuring the course of his research career, after retirement, and in recognition of his exploration in both the northern and southern polar regions, various academic societies and associations conferred distinctions upon Roots:\n\nIn recognition of his exemplary service in the exploration and scientific investigation of the Antarctic continent, a number of places and geographic features on the landmass have been named in honour of Roots. Roots Heights (Norwegian: '; ), named in 1966, is an area of high ground at the top of an ice-free, flat-topped mountain, approximately central within the Sverdrup Mountains of Queen Maud Land. On the western side of Roots Heights is a large glacial cirque, named Fred Cirque (Norwegian: '; ) also in 1966. Both features were mapped by Norwegian cartographers during the course of the Norwegian–British–Swedish Antarctic Expedition for which Roots was Chief Geologist. Multiple biographical articles and obituaries claim that an entire range of mountains on Antarctica is named for Roots, but there appears to be no evidence for this in gazetteers and geographic name directories.\n\nDuring his master's thesis research in the Aiken Lake area of northern British Columbia, Roots collected samples of fossils to assist in correlation and dating of the various rock units that he examined there. One of these samples contained a sponge reef fauna which included a species of Archaeocyatha that had not yet been formally described. Fortunately for Roots, on the faculty of the Department of Geology at the University of British Columbia was Vladimir Okulitch, a paleontologist who specialized in Archaeocytha fossils. Okulitch named the species \"Protopharetra rootsi\", meaning 'Roots's first quiver', recognizing both the finder of the fossil as well as its shape.\n\n"}
{"id": "57574016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57574016", "title": "Geology of the Republic of the Congo", "text": "Geology of the Republic of the Congo\n\nThe geology of the Republic of the Congo, also known as Congo-Brazzaville, to differentiate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, formerly Zaire, includes extensive igneous and metamorphic basement rock, some up to two billion years old and sedimentary rocks formed within the past 250 million years. Much of the country's geology is hidden by sediments formed in the past 2.5 million years of the Quaternary.\n\nThe Congo Craton is the geologically stable remnant of an early continent. It is the basement rock for much of central Africa and extends through the Republic of Congo and into Gabon, as far as Cameroon, as the granitoid Chaillu Massif. The Massif has two generations of 2.7 billion year old granitoids dating to the Archean and a north-south foliation. The rocks range from gray granodiorite to quartz biotite or biotite and amphibole rich endmembers. Pink-colored potassic migmatite is found in veins within the rock. At a few points, much older greenstone and granitoid schist remain in place and never experienced full granitization.\n\nRepublic of Congo has two relict greenstone belts at Mayoko and Zanago. Greenstone belts have sequences of metamorphic and volcanic rock that preserve ancient tectonics from the Archean. The Mayoko greenstone belt has banded iron, amphibolite, biotite gneiss and pyroxene-rich amphibolite sequences. At Zanago, the belt is slightly different, with amphibolite-bearing quartzite, residual pyroxenite in amphibolites and small amounts of dunite.\n\nIn the northwest of the country, the Sembe-Ouesso Group spans into Gabon and Cameroon, beneath overlying mixtite formations. The Sembe-Ouesso Group has ascending sequences of quartzite, shale, phyllite, calc-shale, dolomite and another layer of quartzite. Some geologists debate whether the sequence dates to the Paleoproterozoic or Neoproterozoic.\nThe Neoproterozoic West Congolian Supergroup, is one of three parts of the West Congolian mobile belt, a tectonic feature that runs for 1300 kilometers from Gabon through southwest Republic of Congo to Angola. Geologists subdivide the West Congolian Supergroup into the Haut Shiloango Group, the Schisto-Calcaire Group, Sansikwa Group, Mpioka Group and Inkisi Group. Previously, geologists interpreted two pebbly schist and mixtite layers, that separate the Sansikwa Group, Haut Shiloango Group and the Schisto-Calcaire Group as glacial deposits, but now they are believed to be the remains of mud flows. \n\nAs central Africa entered the Phanerozoic, the current geologic eon in which multicellular plant and animal life is commonplace, sedimentary rocks were deposited in what may have been failed rift valleys. These rocks are mainly found in the Congo Basin, a structural tectonic feature that extends into neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo, formed within the Congo Craton. Because of thick layers of sediment atop the craton in central Africa, remoteness and sparse research from boreholes and seismic lines, the exact origins of many of these sedimentary units remains unclear. Geologists currently interpret many of the sedimentary sequences from the Late Permian into the Triassic as the remains of the Karoo rifting period. During the Karoo period, southern Gondwana rifted across a large area encompassing what is now southern South America and South Africa. The rift basin and surrounding regions were cloaked in thick layers of continental sediment and sedimentation accelerated when Gondwana drifted over the South Pole, causing massive glaciation of Africa in the Karoo Ice Age. Ultimately, the glaciers melted at the end of the Permian, creating a swampy delta environment. Rocks directly preserving this sequence are found in the Karoo Supergroup, one of the most extensive stratigraphic units in southern Africa. \nWith slow subsidence in the Cretaceous at the Mesozoic, the Congo Basin experienced slow subsidence and filled with one kilometer of sediments. \n\nWithin the past 66 million years, the Congo Basin has continued to sag, surrounded by topographic highs on all sides. In the Miocene, the basin closed due to flank uplift at the Atlantic rifted margin and gorges and rapids formed in the Mayombe mountains. \n\nIn the interior, along the Congo River, most groundwater is stored in permeable unconsolidated Congo Basin alluvium, which can be up to thick. Small areas of this unconsolidated Quaternary alluvium are also found near the Atlantic coast. The Coastal basin aquifer is made up of Cenozoic clay-rich sands, dolomitic sandstones and dolomitic limestone with low hardness and a neutral pH but relatively high salinity and sulfide. The unit is known from exploratory wells drilled in search of potash, water and petroleum. The Stanley Pool series beneath Brazzaville is primarily sandstone with some kaolinite and marl mixed in. In other parts of the center of the country, shallow boreholes into the Bateke Plateau sandstone series are used for local water supplies. Groundwater is also found in the Late Precambrian Inkisi series, Mpioka series and schist-limestone in the Djoue Valley as well as some fractured schist, granite, gneiss and quartzite basement rock. \n\nThe Republic of Congo was included in widespread stratigraphic research of the Congo Basin in the late 1950s, with drill cores preserved at the Royal Museum for Central Africa in Belgium. Oil related research continued in the 1970s and up until 1984, spanning into Zaire (the former name of the Democratic Republic of Congo), by Shell, Texaco and Japan National Oil Company.\n\nNatural resources, both minerals and petroleum, are important contributors to the economy of the Republic of Congo. Crude oil makes up 50% percent of the government's revenue and 90% of exports, with almost all drilling offshore. \nTwo metal mines, at Djenguile and Yanga-Koubenza, west of Brazzaville extract zinc, lead and copper. Unexploited niobium, tantalum, uranium, manganese, titanium, nickel, chromium, thorium, gold and tungsten are known from geochemical analysis of the Mayombe Supergroup. Many of the same minerals may also be found in the Paleoproterozoic Sembe-Ouesso Group.\n\nPlacer diamonds are found in the Bikosi Conglomerate, likely dating to the Early Cretaceous. The Archean Caillu Massif hosts itabirite iron ore and gold, associated with amphibolite, although these resources are not extensively mined except by artesanal methods. \n\nThe Republic of Congo also has a belt of phosphate outcrops along the coast, with large deposits at Sintou Kola and Holle, 50 kilometers from Pointe Noire. Phosphate nodules, west of Brazzaville, close to Comba, are believed to be of Neoproterozoic age.\n\n"}
{"id": "12800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12800", "title": "Great Rift Valley", "text": "Great Rift Valley\n\nThe Great Rift Valley is a continuous geographic trench, approximately in length, that runs from Lebanon's Beqaa Valley in Asia to Mozambique in Southeastern Africa. The name continues in some usages, although it is today considered geologically imprecise as it combines features that are today regarded as separate, although related, rift and fault systems.\n\nToday, the term is most often used to refer to the valley of the East African Rift, the divergent plate boundary which extends from the Afar Triple Junction southward across eastern Africa, and is in the process of splitting the African Plate into two new separate plates. Geologists generally refer to these incipient plates as the Nubian Plate and the Somali Plate.\n\nThe Great Rift Valley as originally described was thought to extend from Lebanon in the north to Mozambique in the south, where it constitutes one of two distinct physiographic provinces of the East African mountains. It included what we would call today the Lebanese section of the Dead Sea Transform, the Jordan Rift Valley, Red Sea Rift and the East African Rift.\n\nToday these rifts and faults are seen as distinct, although connected. These were only formed 35 million years ago.\n\nThe northernmost part of the Rift corresponds to the central section of what is called today the Dead Sea Transform (DST) or Rift. This midsection of the DST forms the Beqaa Valley in Lebanon, separating the Lebanon from the Anti-Lebanon Mountains. Further south it is known as the Hula Valley separating the Galilee mountains and the Golan Heights.\n\nThe Jordan River begins here and flows southward through Lake Hula into the Sea of Galilee in Israel. The Rift then continues south through the Jordan Rift Valley into the Dead Sea on the Israeli-Jordanian border. From the Dead Sea southwards, the Rift is occupied by the Wadi Arabah, then the Gulf of Aqaba, and then the Red Sea.\n\nOff the southern tip of Sinai in the Red Sea, the Dead Sea Transform meets the Red Sea Rift which runs the length of the Red Sea. The Red Sea Rift comes ashore to meet the East African Rift and the Aden Ridge in the Afar Depression of East Africa. The junction of these three rifts is called the Afar Triple Junction.\n\n The East African rift has two branches, the Western Rift Valley and the Eastern Rift Valley.\n\nThe Western Rift, also called the Albertine Rift, is bordered by some of the highest mountains in Africa, including the Virunga Mountains, Mitumba Mountains, and Ruwenzori Range. It contains the Rift Valley lakes, which include some of the deepest lakes in the world (up to deep at Lake Tanganyika).\n\nMuch of this area lies within the boundaries of national parks such as Virunga National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwenzori National Park and Queen Elizabeth National Park in Uganda, and Volcanoes National Park in Rwanda. Lake Victoria is considered to be part of the rift valley system although it actually lies between the two branches. All of the African Great Lakes were formed as the result of the rift, and most lie within its rift valley.\n\nIn Kenya, the valley is deepest to the north of Nairobi. As the lakes in the Eastern Rift have no outlet to the sea and tend to be shallow, they have a high mineral content as the evaporation of water leaves the salts behind. For example, Lake Magadi has high concentrations of soda (sodium carbonate) and Lake Elmenteita, Lake Bogoria, and Lake Nakuru are all strongly alkaline, while the freshwater springs supplying Lake Naivasha are essential to support its current biological variety.\n\nThe southern section of the Rift Valley includes Lake Malawi, the third-deepest freshwater body in the world, reaching in depth and separating the Nyassa plateau of Northern Mozambique from Malawi; it ends in the Zambezi valley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15112619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15112619", "title": "Gu Yanwu", "text": "Gu Yanwu\n\nGu Yanwu () (July 15, 1613 – February 15, 1682), also known as Gu Tinglin (), was a Chinese philologist and geographer. He spent his youth during the Manchu conquest of China in anti-Manchu activities after the Ming Dynasty had been overthrown. He never served the Qing Dynasty. Instead, he traveled throughout the country and devoted himself to studies.\n\nGu, a native of Jiangsu, was born as Gu Jiang (). Gu began his schooling at the age of 14. In the spring of 1645, Gu was recommended to be the position of \"Bingbu Siwu\" in the royal court at Nanjing. There he proposed many ideas. Unsatisfied with the royal court's organisation, Gu resigned and returned to his hometown. In 1655, local officials laid charges against him and threw him into prison. He was released from prison with the help of a friend.\n\nInspired by Chen Di, who had demonstrated that the Old Chinese has its own phonological system, Gu divided the words of Old Chinese into 10 rhyme groups, the first one to do so. His positivist approach to a variety of disciplines, and his criticism of Neo-Confucianism had a huge influence on later scholars. His works include \"Yinxue Wushu\" (音學五書), \"Ri Zhi Lu\" (日知錄) and \"Zhao Yu Zhi\" (肇域志).\n\nAlong with Wang Fuzhi and Huang Zongxi, Gu was named as one of the most outstanding Confucian scholars of the late Ming and early Qing Dynasty.\n\nIn 1682, while returning from a friend's home to Huaying, Gu fell from horseback and died the next day.\n\n\"Everybody is responsible for the fate of the world\" ()\n\nAlternatively, \"The rise and fall of the nation concerns everyone\"; or \"Everyone bears responsibility for the prosperity of society\".\n\nGu is commemorated by Tinglin Park and the Gu Yanwu Museum in Tinglin Park of Kunshan. In 2005, the Central Propaganda Department of China named the Gu Yanwu Museum located at Gu's former residence in Qiandeng town as a \"national patriotism education base\".\n\nThe former residence of Gu Yanwu is located in Qiandeng town of Kunshan, a Ming dynasty complex with main hall, living quarter, a study\nand a garden. Gu Yanwu's grave is located in a quiet corner of the garden.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2655282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2655282", "title": "Harm de Blij", "text": "Harm de Blij\n\nHarm J. de Blij (see IJ (digraph); closest pronunciation: \"duh blay\") (1935–2014) was a geographer. He was a geography editor on ABC's \"Good Morning America\" and an editor of \"National Geographic\" magazine and the author of several books, including \"Why Geography Matters\".\n\nDe Blij received his early schooling in Europe, his college education in Africa, and his higher degrees in the United States (Ph.D. Northwestern, 1959). He published more than 30 books and over 100 articles and has received five honorary degrees. Several of his books have been translated into foreign languages. He was the editor of Oxford's \"Atlas of North America\". A native of Holland, he was a professor of geography and viticulture at Michigan State University and the University of Miami and a visiting professor at the Colorado School of Mines.\n\nDr. de Blij was a Distinguished Professor of Geography at Michigan State University. He held the George Landegger Chair in Georgetown University's school of Foreign Service and the John Deaver Drinko chair of geography at Marshall University and also taught at the Colorado School of Mines and the University of Miami.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22764646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22764646", "title": "Hellenic Military Geographical Service", "text": "Hellenic Military Geographical Service\n\nThe Hellenic Military Geographical Service or HMGS ( or Γ.Υ.Σ.), is the Greek military mapping agency.\n\nEstablished in 1889 as the “Geodetic Mission” with the purpose of compiling the “Topographic and Cadastral Map of the Country”, the service acquired its current name in 1926. Today it supports both the Greek Army and the general public with cartographic products.\n\nFrom 1966 until the 1980s, the service housed the Armed Forces Information Service, Greece's second state-run broadcaster alongside the National Radio Foundation.\n\nHMGS supplies City Plans of scales 1:5.000, 1:10.000 and 1:25.000 in Greek and Latin series\n\n\nHMGS produces and supplies topographic maps of various scales that cover the whole country and occasionally parts of neighbouring countries. It should be emphasised that not all maps noted below are available to public, since part of them is confidential and available only upon approval of HMGS. Although not a state monopoly and not very famous among hikers, certainly HMGS maps have a much wider coverage in small scales than commercial leisure maps. The maps used the Hellenic Geodetic Reference System 1987 (HGRS87 or ΕΓΣΑ'87) which specifies a Transverse Mercatorial Projection mapping Greece in one zone. \n\n\nThe products and services of HMGS are not available in the market. They can either be purchased using the e-shop of the service or collected from the offices of the service upon submitting the relevant request form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3178013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3178013", "title": "Ibn Hawqal", "text": "Ibn Hawqal\n\nMuḥammad Abū’l-Qāsim Ibn Ḥawqal (), also known as Abū al-Qāsim b. ʻAlī Ibn Ḥawqal al-Naṣībī, born in Nisibis, Upper Mesopotamia; was a 10th-century Arab Muslim writer, geographer, and chronicler who travelled 943-969 AD. His famous work, written in 977 AD, is called \"Ṣūrat al-’Arḍ\" (; \"The face of the Earth\"). The date of his death, known from his writings, was after 368AH/978AD.\n\nDetails known of Ibn Hawqal's life are extrapolated from his book. He spent the last 30 years of his life traveling to the remote parts of Asia and Africa and writing about what he saw. One journey brought him 20° south of the equator along the East African coast where he discovered large populations in regions the ancient Greek writers had deemed, from logic rather than knowledge, were uninhabitable.\n\nIbn Hawqal based his great work of geography on a revision and augmentation of the text called \"Masālik ul-Mamālik\" by Istakhri (951 AD), which itself was a revised edition of the \"Ṣuwar al-aqālīm\" by Ahmed ibn Sahl al-Balkhi, (ca. 921 AD). However Ibn Hawqal was more than an editor, he was travel writer writing in the style followed later by Abu Ubaydallah al-Bakri in his \"Kitab al-Masālik wa-al-Mamālik\" (\"Book of Routes and Realms\"), a literary genre which uses reports of merchants and travellers. Ibn Hawqal introduces 10th century humour into his account of Sicily during the Kalbid-Fatimid dynasty. As a primary source his medieval geography tends to exaggeration and his depiction of the barbaric uncivilised Christians of Palermo, reflects the prevailing politics of his time. Yet his geographic accounts of his personal travels were relied upon, and found useful, by medieval Arab travellers. \n\nThe chapters on Al-Andalus, in Muslim-held Spain, and particularly on Sicily, describe the richly cultivated area of Fraxinet (La Garde-Freinet), and detail a number of regional innovations practiced by Muslim farmers and fishermen.\nThe chapter on the Byzantine Empire - known in the Muslim world as, and called by the Byzantines themselves, the \"Lands of the Romans\" - gives his first-hand observation of the 360 languages spoken in the Caucasus, with the Lingua Franca being Azeri and Persian across the region. With the description of Kiev, he may have mentioned the route of the Volga Bulgars and the Khazars, which was perhaps taken from Sviatoslav I of Kiev. He also published a cartographic map of Sindh together with accounts of the geography and culture of Sindh and the Indus River.\n\nAn anonymous epitome of the book was written in 1233 AD.\n\nIn the 1870s the celebrated dutch orientalist Michael Jan de Goeje edited a selection of MS texts by Arab geographers, which was published by Brill, Leiden in an 8-volume series titled \"Bibliotheca geographorum Arabicorum\". Ibn Haukal's text was the second volume published in 1873 under the Latin title \"Viae et Regna, descriptio ditionis Moslemicae auctore Abu'l-Kásim Ibn Haukal\" - \"Routes and Realms, a description of Muslim territories by the author Abu'l-Kásim Ibn Haukal\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10832363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10832363", "title": "Ishango", "text": "Ishango\n\nIshango is a sub-station of Virunga National Park, situated on the Northern Shores of Lake Edward in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The station was created in the 1950s and is famous for many reasons: \nIshango is currently managed under the leadership of a park warden and five rangers. It has an airstrip, and administrative building, four houses and some tented accommodations for visitors. The buildings were rehabilitated by the European Development Fund in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "29249253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29249253", "title": "Island Melanesia", "text": "Island Melanesia\n\nIsland Melanesia is a sub-region of Melanesia in Oceania.\n\nIt is located east of mainland New Guinea island, from the Bismarck Archipelago to New Caledonia. \n\n"}
{"id": "9798425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9798425", "title": "James Niehues", "text": "James Niehues\n\nJames Niehues (born 1946) is an American landscape artist and cartographer best known for painting ski trail maps for ski resorts. He has painted 255 maps for 175 ski resorts around the world.\n\nNiehues was raised on a farm in Loma, Colorado, and attended Fruita Monument High School. He began painting at the age of 15, when he fell ill with nephritis and his mother gave him an oil painting set to keep him occupied while he was bedridden for three months.\n\nAfter serving in the U.S. Army from 1965 to 1969, Niehues worked in advertising, printing and graphic design. In 1987, while working at a Denver print shop, he met Bill Brown, a painter of ski resort maps who was nearing retirement. Brown gave him his first assignment as a map painter: a small inset map commissioned by Winter Park Resort in Colorado. After his map was accepted by Winter Park, Niehues printed copies of his illustration and sent them to the marketing managers of ski resorts across the U.S. to advertise his map-painting services. The first resort to respond was Vail Ski Resort, which hired him to paint a new trail map. The first ski map that he designed and painted by himself was Boreal Mountain Resort in California; as of 2016, Niehues' map was still in use, 29 years after it was created.\n\nNiehues' method of painting ski trails begins with aerial photographs of the mountain that he either takes himself or obtains from Google Earth. He then sketches the mountain based on the photographs and adds color and detail with watercolor paints and an airbrush.\n\nBy 2016, Niehues had painted 255 maps for 175 ski resorts around the world. The largest resorts he has painted for include Aspen in Colorado, Big Sky Resort in Montana, Boyne Mountain Resort in Michigan, Killington Ski Resort in Vermont, Sugarloaf in Maine, and Mont Tremblant Resort and Whistler Blackcomb in Canada. He estimates that he has created trail maps for 75% of the large ski resorts in the U.S. In 2011, his work was displayed in an exhibition at Apexart in New York City. He semi-retired in 2014, and lives in Loveland, Colorado.\n\nNiehues' work has drawn numerous comparisons to famous artists: he has been called \"the Michelangelo of snow\", \"Rembrandt of the ski trail\", \"Monet of the mountain\", and the \"Norman Rockwell of ski resorts\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47262251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262251", "title": "Jesenovec", "text": "Jesenovec\n\nJesenovec is a village in Croatia. \n"}
{"id": "30210644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30210644", "title": "John S. Kyser", "text": "John S. Kyser\n\nJohn Schenebly Kyser (September 8, 1900 – July 14, 1975) was an American historian and geographer who served as the president of Northwestern State University in Natchitoches, Louisiana, from 1954-1966.\n\nKyser was born in El Paso, a small city in Woodford County in north central Illinois. His parents were John Hamilton Kyser and the former Elizabeth Schuman. He was educated in Illinois public schools and received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1921 from the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, Michigan. He obtained further education at the University of Chicago, the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of Heidelberg in Heidelberg, Germany, before receiving his Ph.D. in 1937 from Louisiana State University at Baton Rouge. His doctoral dissertation is entitled \"The Evolution of Louisiana Parishes in Relation to Growth and Distribution in Population.\"\nFrom 1921-1923, Kyser served a year each on the faculty of LSU and Tulane University in New Orleans.\n\nIn 1923, he came to Northwestern State, then known as Louisiana Normal College, a teachers' institution. He headed the Department of Social Sciences from 1924 until May 15, 1954, at which time he was elevated to the presidency of the institution, then known as Northwestern State College. Along with several other four-year institutions in the state, NSU was elevated to university status in 1970, when Kyser's successor, Arnold R. Kilpatrick, was serving as the NSU president.\n\nIn 1935, Kyser organized and developed the first statewide field study-tours with college credit. He was a pioneer of audio-visual education and was instrumental in the development of first closed-circuit television instruction program in Louisiana. Kyser also launched the first graduate program in any four-year state institution of higher education below the level of LSU. Such programs are now widespread.\n\nKyser was the chairman of the Geography Section of the Southwestern Social Sciences Association. He was a president of the North Louisiana Historical Association and in 1960 headed the Louisiana Historical Association.\nOn September 8, 1924, Kyser married the former Thelma Zelenka (1898–1998) of Houma, the seat of Terrebonne Parish in south Louisiana. She was a daughter of Dr. Rudolph Louis Zelenka and the former Eva Bazet. The couple had one child, Janet (born 1929). Thelma Kyser died ten days before her 100th birthday. \nKyser died in Shreveport, Louisiana. He is interred beside his wife at Memory Lawn Cemetery in Natchitoches. His papers are located at the Eugene P. Watson Memorial Library on the NSU campus. A tribute to Kyser is found in a 1975 issue of \"North Louisiana History.\"\n\nKyser Hall, which houses the department of history at NSU, is named in his honor.\n"}
{"id": "47273832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47273832", "title": "Krun Macula", "text": "Krun Macula\n\nKrun is the westernmost of the \"Brass Knuckles\", a series of equatorial dark regions on Pluto. It is named after Krun, the greatest of the five Mandaean lords of the underworld.\nKrun is the third largest equatorial dark region on Pluto, after Cthulhu and Balrog. It extends nearly to 180 degrees longitude, the Plutonian longitude opposite Charon.\n"}
{"id": "19394681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19394681", "title": "Lake Parime", "text": "Lake Parime\n\nLake Parime or Lake Parima is a legendary lake located in South America. It was reputedly the location of the fabled city of El Dorado, also known as Manoa, much sought-after by European explorers. Repeated attempts to find the lake failed to confirm its existence, and it was dismissed as a myth along with the city. The search for Lake Parime led explorers to map the rivers and other features of southern Venezuela, northern Brazil, and southwestern Guyana before the lake's existence was definitively disproved in the early 19th century. Some explorers proposed that the seasonal flooding of the Rupununi savannah may have been misidentified as a lake. Recent geological investigations suggest that a lake may have existed in northern Brazil, but that it dried up some time in the 18th century. Both \"Manoa\" (Arawak language) and \"Parime\" (Carib language) are believed to mean \"big lake\".\n\nTwo other mythical lakes, Lake Xarayes or Xaraies (sometimes called Lake Eupana), and Lake Cassipa, are often depicted on early maps of South America.\n\nSir Walter Raleigh began the exploration of the Guianas in earnest in 1594 and described the city of Manoa, which he believed to be the legendary city of El Dorado, as being located on Lake Parime far up the Orinoco River in Venezuela. Much of his exploration is documented in his books \"The Discoverie of the Large, Rich, and Bewtiful Empyre of Guiana\", published first in 1596, and \"The Discovery of Guiana, and the Journal of the Second Voyage Thereto\", published in 1606. How much of Raleigh's work is true and how much is fabricated remains unclear: His account indicates that he only succeeded in navigating up the Orinoco as far as Angostura, (what is now Ciudad Bolívar) and did not come close to the supposed location of Lake Parime. Raleigh says of the lake:\n\nAccording to Raleigh, the lake itself was the source of the gold possessed by the people of Manoa:\nIn 1596 Raleigh sent his lieutenant, Lawrence Kemys, back to Guyana in the area of the Orinoco River, to gather more information about the lake and the golden city. During his exploration of the coast between the Amazon and the Orinoco, Kemys mapped the location of Amerindian tribes and prepared geographical, geological and botanical reports of the country. Kemys described the coast of Guiana in detail in his \"Relation of the Second Voyage to Guiana\" (1596) and says that indigenous people of Guiana traveled inland by canoe and land passages towards a large body of water on the shores of which he supposed was located Manoa, Golden City of El Dorado. One of these rivers leading south into the interior of Guiana was the Essequibo. Kemys wrote that the Indians called this river \"brother of the Orenoque [Orinoco]\" and that this river of Essequibo, or Devoritia,\n\nAs a result of Raleigh's work, maps began to appear depicting El Dorado and Lake Parime. One of the first was the elder Jodocus Hondius' \"Nieuwe Caerte van het Wonderbaer ende Goudrycke Landt Guiana\", which was published in 1598. Hondius' map depicts an elongated Lake Parime south of the Orinoco River, with the majority of the lake positioned south of the equator, and with Manoa on the northern shore, towards the eastern half of the lake. Manoa is noted as \"the greatest city in the entire world\". Hondius' map was subsequently copied by Theodore de Bry and published in his popular \"Grands Voyages\" in 1599. When Hondius published a completely revised edition of Mercator's Atlas in 1608, it included a map of South America featuring Lake Parime with the majority of the lake located south of the equator, and with Manoa again along the northern shore, although not quite so far east.\n\nCartographer Guillaume Delisle was among the first to cast doubts on the lake's existence. In a map of Guyana printed in 1730, he included an outline of the lake, then replaced it with the notation: \"It is in these regions that most authors place the Lake Parime and the City of Manoa of El Dorado.\" Delisle reluctantly included a lake in southwestern Guyana on several subsequent maps, but did not name it or the city of Manoa.\n\nThe lake was printed on maps throughout the 17th and 18th centuries and up until the early 19th century. Some cartographers and naturalists moved the lake more to the southeast of the Orinoco River and north of the Amazon river, often situating it south of the mountains that border Venezuela, Guiana, and Brazil. However, by the late 18th century, failure to confirm the lake's existence led to its removal from most maps. A 1792 map of the Rio Branco by José Joaquin Freire shows no sign of a lake, although there is now a Parimé River.\n\nIn early 1611 Sir Thomas Roe, on a mission to the West Indies for Henry Frederick, Prince of Wales, sailed his 200-ton ship, the \"Lion's Claw\", some up the Amazon, then took a party of canoes up the Oyapock River in search of Lake Parime, negotiating thirty-two rapids and traveling about one hundred miles before they ran out of food and had to turn back.\n\nIn March 1617, Raleigh and Kemys returned to Venezuela in search of Lake Parime and El Dorado. The expedition failed to uncover any new evidence of the lake and ended with the death of Raleigh's son Walter and the suicide of Captain Kemys. \n\nBetween 1689 and 1691 the Jesuit priest Samuel Fritz traveled along the Amazon and its tributaries, preparing a detailed map at the request of the Royal Audiencia of Quito. Fritz was skeptical of the existence of a golden city, but thought that Lake Parime probably did exist, and included it prominently in his map.\n\nIn November 1739, Nicholas Horstman (sometimes spelled \"Hortsman\"), a surgeon from Hildesheim, Germany who was secretly commissioned by the Dutch Governor of Guiana (Laurens Storm van's Gravesande), traveled up the Essequibo River accompanied by two Dutch soldiers and four Indian guides. In April 1741 one of the Indian guides returned reporting that in 1740 Horstman had crossed over to the Rio Branco and descended it to its confluence with the Rio Negro. Rumors at the time held that Horstman had planted the Dutch Flag on the shores of Lake Parime, however later explorers determined that he had in fact visited Lake Amucu on the North Rupununi. Nothing further was heard until late November, 1742 when the other guides returned, reporting that Horstman and one of the Dutch soldiers had spent four months in a village on the Pará River, where they were discovered and arrested by the Portuguese authorities, and that they had \"entered into the Portuguese service\". In August 1743 Charles-Marie de La Condamine met and conversed with Horstman, who appeared to be living freely with the Portuguese in Pará, and Horstman gave him his fragmentary diary, titled \"Journey which I made to the Imaginary Lake of Parima, or of Gold, in the Year 1739\". Horstman states that on May 8, 1740,\n\nHorstman also gave La Condamine a remarkably accurate hand-drawn map of his route from the coast through the interior of Northern Brazil. La Condamine then gave the map to the French geographer Jean Baptiste Bourguignon d'Anville. Lake Amucu was incorporated into his Carte de l'Amerique Meridionale in 1748.\n\nIn 1740, Don Manuel Centurion, Governor of Santo Tomé de Guayana de Angostura del Orinoco in Venezuela, hearing a report from an Indian regarding Lake Parima, embarked on a journey up the Caura River and the Paragua River. According to Humboldt:\nDuring his expedition, \"several hundred persons perished miserably\" and Centurion failed to confirm the existence of either a lake or a city.\n\nBetween June and September 1743 the scientist and geographer Charles de La Condamine traveled from Quito to the Atlantic coast via the Amazon River, charting its course and making scientific observations. In his subsequent account of this journey, \"Abbreviated Relation of a Journey made in the Interior of South America\" (1745), Condamine discussed the existence of Lake Parime, stating that although the Indians had extracted \"small flakes\" of gold from the rivers, these stories had been greatly exaggerated to concoct the myth of a golden city:\n\nDuring his journey La Condamine met and conversed with Nicholas Horstman and determined that he had found Lake Amucu in approximately the location of the reputed Lake Parime. On the map of his own travels included in his book, La Condamine placed a small lake as a source of the Takutu River, designating it only \"Lac\".\n\nAlexander von Humboldt and Aimé Bonpland considered Lake Amucu in the North Rupununi, which had been visited by the German surgeon Nicholas Horstman, to be the Lake Parime described by Sir Walter Raleigh. In his \"Relation historique du voyage aux régions équinoxiales du nouveau continent\" (1825), Humboldt indicated that Lake Amucu was in the same location as the purported Lake Parime (or Roponowini) described to Raleigh, and was also a \"large inland sea\" when flooded; he noted that:\nIn 1812 Charles Waterton independently came to a similar conclusion and proposed that seasonal flooding of the Rupununi savannah could be the famed Lake Parime. Waterton wrote:\nIn 1840 explorer Robert Hermann Schomburgk visited Pirara on the edge of Lake Amucu. He stated that this area of flooded Rupununi which linked the Amazon and Essequibo River drainages was most likely to be the Lake Parime:\n\nIn 1844 the American author Jacob Adrien van Heuvel, a graduate of Yale and a law student, published an account of his travels in Guiana in which he investigated evidence for the existence of El Dorado and Lake Parima. The book described a journey to Guiana he had made in 1819–20 during which he questioned a \"Charibe chief\" named Mahanerwa about the existence of the lake. Mahanerwa drew a map in the sand, and stated that a large body of water lay southeast of the Orinoco. Van Heuvel superimposed this drawing onto John Arrowsmith's 1840 map of British Guyana, claiming that much of this body of water, some in length, was likely a \"temporary inundation\" but that \"water must fill the savannah\" for half the year at least and probably more. Van Heuvel considered Lake Parima and Lake Cassipa to be identical.\n\nIn his 1848 edition of Raleigh's \"The Discovery of the Large, Rich, and Beautiful Empire of Guiana,\" Schomburgk dismissed Van Heuvel's propositions:\n\nIn spite of well-publicized evidence disproving the existence of Lake Parime, the 1853 edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" described the lake under the entry for \"America:\"\n\nThe Tucano and Piratapuia tribes of the upper Rio Negro tell a story of the Nhamini-wi (the \"narrow path\"). The Nhamini-wi was a pre-Columbian road that traveled from the mountains in the west where the \"house of the night\" was located. The trail began at \"axpeko-dixtara\", or the \"lake of milk\" in the east. In 1977 artist and explorer Roland Stevenson found ruins north of the Rio Negro in the Uaupés River basin that are believed to be the remnants of the Nhamini-wi. Led by indigenous guides Stevenson found old and collapsed stone walls that were dotted every twenty kilometers along an east-to-west line.\n\nStevenson followed the vestiges of the road eastward to find the lake and ended up in Roraima, Brazil, in the plains of Boa Vista. Upon examining the region Brazilian geologists Gert Woeltje and Frederico Guimarães Cruz along with Roland Stevenson found that on all the surrounding hillsides a horizontal line appears at a uniform level approximately above sea level. This line registers the water level of an extinct lake which existed until relatively recent times. Researchers who studied it found that the lake's previous diameter measured and its area was about . About 700 years ago this giant lake began to drain due to epeirogenic movement and by the early 19th century it had dried up.\n\nGeologic research suggests that, thousands of years ago, conditions existed for the formation of a lake. Sedimentary rock in this region, known as the Takutu Basin or the Takutu Formation, dates back to the late Paleozoic, roughly 250 million years ago, and the basin connected with the Atlantic via the Takutu Graben. The geologic history of the Takutu Graben is characterized by one phase of volcanic activity and three depositional phases of sedimentary rocks. Rifting (due to divergent tectonic plate movements) occurred in \"a lake or delta environment\" in the Late Triassic to Early Jurassic periods, between 200 million and one hundred and fifty million years ago. Starting around 66,000 years ago, sea level rise and more humid conditions created flooded zones north of the confluence of the Rio Negro and the Solimões River, in what is now Roraima.\n\nSeasonal flooding was probably misidentified as a lake by some observers. The drainage system of the Rupununi Savannahs is unable to carry a high volume of surface runoff and as a result, most rivers flood in the wet season. In a few places ground water drainage is impeded by clay, and ponds and lakes persist for several months.\n\nAn additional theory is that Lake Parime did actually exist, and was drained abruptly in June 1690 when an intensity IX (\"Violent\") earthquake opened a bedrock fault, forming a rift or a graben that permitted the water to flow into the Rio Branco.\n\nRoraima's well-known Pedra Pintada is the site of numerous pictograms and petroglyphs dating to between 9000 and 12000 years ago or less than 4000 years ago. Designs above the ground on the sheer exterior face of the rock were probably painted by people standing in canoes on the surface of the now-vanished lake. Gold, which was reported to be washed up on the shores of the lake, was most likely carried by streams and rivers out of the mountains where it can be found today.\n\n"}
{"id": "1461372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1461372", "title": "Laser rangefinder", "text": "Laser rangefinder\n\nA laser rangefinder is a rangefinder that uses a laser beam to determine the distance to an object. The most common form of laser rangefinder operates on the time of flight principle by sending a laser pulse in a narrow beam towards the object and measuring the time taken by the pulse to be reflected off the target and returned to the sender. Due to the high speed of light, this technique is not appropriate for high precision sub-millimeter measurements, where triangulation and other techniques are often used.\n\nThe pulse may be coded to reduce the chance that the rangefinder can be jammed. It is possible to use Doppler effect techniques to judge whether the object is moving towards or away from the rangefinder, and if so, how fast.\n\nThe precision of the instrument is determined by the rise or fall time of the laser pulse and the speed of the receiver. One that uses very sharp laser pulses and has a very fast detector can range an object to within a few millimeters.\n\nDespite the beam being narrow, it will eventually spread over long distances due to the divergence of the laser beam, as well as due to scintillation and beam wander effects, caused by the presence of air bubbles in the air acting as lenses ranging in size from microscopic to roughly half the height of the laser beam's path above the earth.\n\nThese atmospheric distortions coupled with the divergence of the laser itself and with transverse winds that serve to push the atmospheric heat bubbles laterally may combine to make it difficult to get an accurate reading of the distance of an object, say, beneath some trees or behind bushes, or even over long distances of more than 1 km in open and unobscured desert terrain.\n\nSome of the laser light might reflect off leaves or branches which are closer than the object, giving an early return and a reading which is too low. Alternatively, over distances longer than 1200 ft (365 m), the target, if in proximity to the earth, may simply vanish into a mirage, caused by temperature gradients in the air in proximity to the heated surface bending the laser light. All these effects have to be taken into account.\n\nThe distance between point A and B is given by\nwhere \"c\" is the speed of light and \"t\" is the amount of time for the round-trip between A and B.\n\nwhere \"φ\" is the phase delay made by the light traveling and \"ω\" is the angular frequency of optical wave.\n\nThen substituting the values in the equation,\n\nIn this equation, \"λ\" is the wavelength \"c/f\"; \"Δφ\" is the part of the phase delay that does not fulfill \"π\" (that is, \"φ\" modulo \"π\"); \"N\" is the integer number of wave half-cycles of the round-trip and Δ\"N\" the remaining fractional part.\n\nTime of flight - this measures the time taken for a light pulse to travel to the target and back. With the speed of light known, and an accurate measurement of the time taken, the distance can be calculated. Many pulses are fired sequentially and the average response is most commonly used. This technique requires very accurate sub-nanosecond timing circuitry.\n\nMultiple frequency phase-shift - this measures the phase shift of multiple frequencies on reflection then solves some simultaneous equations to give a final measure.\n\nInterferometry - the most accurate and most useful technique for measuring changes in distance rather than absolute distances.\n\nRangefinders provide an exact distance to targets located beyond the distance of point-blank shooting to snipers and artillery. They can also be used for military reconciliation and engineering.\n\nHandheld military rangefinders operate at ranges of 2 km up to 25 km and are combined with binoculars or monoculars. When the rangefinder is equipped with a digital magnetic compass (DMC) and inclinometer it is capable of providing magnetic azimuth, inclination, and height (length) of targets. Some rangefinders can also measure a target's speed in relation to the observer. Some rangefinders have cable or wireless interfaces to enable them to transfer their measurement(s) data to other equipment like fire control computers. Some models also offer the possibility to use add-on night vision modules. Most handheld rangefinders use standard or rechargeable batteries.\nThe more powerful models of rangefinders measure distance up to 25 km and are normally installed either on a tripod or directly on a vehicle or gun platform. In the latter case the rangefinder module is integrated with on-board thermal, night vision and daytime observation equipment. The most advanced military rangefinders can be integrated with computers.\n\nTo make laser rangefinders and laser-guided weapons less useful against military targets, various military arms may have developed laser-absorbing paint for their vehicles. Regardless, some objects don't reflect laser light very well and using a laser rangefinder on them is difficult.\n\nLaser rangefinders are used extensively in 3-D object recognition, 3-D object modelling, and a wide variety of computer vision-related fields. This technology constitutes the heart of the so-called \"time-of-flight\" 3D scanners. In contrast to the military instruments described above, laser rangefinders offer high-precision scanning abilities, with either single-face or 360-degree scanning modes.\n\nA number of algorithms have been developed to merge the range data retrieved from multiple angles of a single object to produce complete 3-D models with as little error as possible. One of the advantages that laser rangefinders offer over other methods of computer vision is that the computer does not need to correlate features from two images to determine depth information as in stereoscopic methods.\n\nLaser rangefinders used in computer vision applications often have depth resolutions of tenths of millimeters or less. This can be achieved by using triangulation or refraction measurement techniques as opposed to the time of flight techniques used in LIDAR.\n\nSpecial laser rangefinders are used in forestry. These devices have anti-leaf filters and work with reflectors. Laser beam reflects only from this reflector and so exact distance measurement is guaranteed. Laser rangefinders with anti-leaf filter are used for example for forest inventories.\n\nLaser rangefinders may be effectively used in various sports that require precision distance measurement, such as golf, hunting, and archery. Some of the more popular manufacturers are Caddytalk, Opti-logic Corporation, Bushnell, Leupold, LaserTechnology, Trimble, Leica, Newcon Optik, Op. Electronics, Nikon, and Swarovski Optik.\nMany rangefinders from Bushnell come with advanced features, such as ARC (angle range compensation), multi-distance ability, slope, JOLT (Vibrate when the target is locked), and Pin-Seeking. ARC Can be calculated by hand using the rifleman's rule, but it's usually much easier if you let a rangefinder do it when you are out hunting. In golfing where time is most important, a laser rangefinder comes useful in locating distance to the flag. Many hunters in the eastern U.S. don't need a rangefinder, although many western hunters need them, due to longer shooting distances and more open spaces.\n\nAn important application is the use of laser rangefinder technology during the automation of stock management systems and production processes in steel industry.\n\nLaser rangefinders are also used in several industries like construction, renovation and real estate as an alternative to a tape measure, and was first introduced by Leica Geosystems in 1993 in France. To measure a large object like a room with a tape measure, one would need another person to hold the tape at the far wall and a clear line straight across the room to stretch the tape. With a laser measuring tool, the job can be completed by one operator with just a line of sight. Although the tape measure is typically more accurate, laser measuring tools can be calibrated to be generally reliable when taking several measurements. Laser measuring tools typically include the ability to produce some simple calculations, such as the area or volume of a room, as well as switch between imperial and metric units. These units can be found in a hardware stores and online marketplaces.\n\nLaser rangefinders can vary in price, depending on the quality and application of the product. Military grade rangefinders need to be as accurate as possible and must also reach great distances. This could be in excess of hundreds of thousands of dollars. In other civilian applications, such as hunting or golf, they are more affordable and much more readily accessible.\n\nLaser rangefinders are divided into four classes and several subclasses. Laser rangefinders available to consumers are usually laser class 1 or class 2 devices and are considered relatively eye-safe. Regardless of the safety rating, direct eye contact should always be avoided. Most laser rangefinders for military use exceed the laser class 2 energy levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "29733570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29733570", "title": "Ligeti Ridge", "text": "Ligeti Ridge\n\nLigeti Ridge () is an undersea ridge in the Southern Ocean. The name was approved by the Advisory Committee for Undersea Features in June 1987.\n"}
{"id": "53991204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53991204", "title": "List of Anglican churches in Macau", "text": "List of Anglican churches in Macau\n\nThe list of Anglican churches in Macau is as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21893374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21893374", "title": "List of accolades received by Ratatouille", "text": "List of accolades received by Ratatouille\n\n\"Ratatouille\" is a computer-animated film produced by Pixar and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. The film was released on June 29, 2007 in the United States as the eighth film produced by Pixar. It was directed by Brad Bird, who took over from Jan Pinkava in 2005. The plot follows Remy, a rat who dreams of becoming a chef and tries to achieve his goal by forming an alliance with a Parisian restaurant's garbage boy. \"Ratatouille\" was released to both critical acclaim and box office success, opening in 3,940 theaters domestically and debuting at #1 with $47 million, grossing $206,445,654 in North America and a total of $624,445,654 worldwide. The film is on the 2007 top ten lists of multiple critics, including Michael Sragow of \"The Baltimore Sun\" as number one, A.O. Scott of \"The New York Times\", Carina Chocano of the \"Los Angeles Times\" and Joe Morgenstern of \"The Wall Street Journal\" as number two.\n\nIt was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Original Score, Achievement in Sound Editing, Achievement in Sound Mixing, Original Screenplay and Animated Feature Film, which it lost to \"Atonement\", \"The Bourne Ultimatum\" and \"Juno\", respectively., winning the latter one. \"Ratatouille\" was nominated for 13 Annie Awards, twice for the Best Animated Effects, where it lost to \"Surf's Up\", and three times in the Best Voice Acting in an Animated Feature Production for Janeane Garofalo, Ian Holm and Patton Oswalt, where Ian Holm won the nomination. It won the \"Best Animated Feature\" Award from multiple associations including the Chicago Film Critics, the National Board of Review, the Annie Awards, the Broadcast Film Critics, the British Academy of Film and Television (BAFTA) and the Golden Globes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27344395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27344395", "title": "List of aviation accidents and incidents in the Channel Islands", "text": "List of aviation accidents and incidents in the Channel Islands\n\nThis article lists some of the aviation accidents and incidents in the Channel Islands from the 1910s to the 2010s.\n\n In May 1917, a French seaplane, operating out of the Saint Peter Port French seaplane base, crashed, killing the pilot officer.\n\n On 29 June 1936, a de Havilland DH.84 Dragon \"Rozel Bay\" overshot Alderney Airport. It was landing with six passengers on board and the pilot, new to the airline, ran out of runway breaking the starboard propellor and damaging the undercarriage as he hit a bank. There were no fatalities and the aircraft flew soon after.\n\nCivil flying was entirely disallowed during the German occupation of the Channel Islands from June 1940 - May 1945. However, many British and Luftwaffe aircraft crashlanded in and around the islands, with 139 fatal Allied casualties. A memorial to the Allied casualties has been erected at Guernsey Airport\n\n On 29 July 1940 a Heinkel He 111 from \"I/KG 27\" crashed into the sea near Guernsey, the crew survived.\n\n On 13 June 1945, a Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress (reference: P-47D) from 544th Bombardment Squadron, part of 384th BG, being used as a transport for demobilized personnel, suffered a landing accident at Guernsey Airport with damage rated as level 3 on a scale of 0-5.\n\n On 5 February 1951 an Avro Anson 652A (registration: G-AIXZ) undershot the Jersey Airport on approaching in fog. The aircraft was carrying national newspapers. The pilot and co-pilot survived but the aircraft was written off.\n\n On 1 November 1961, a Silver City Airways Bristol Freighter Coming from Cherbourg – Maupertus Airport crashed on aborting approach, due to malfunctioning of the automatic pitch coarsening unit of the starboard propeller, killing the two pilots with the other 8 occupants surviving.\n\n On 6 August 1970, a Beagle B.206, (registration: G-AVAM) crashed at Corbière after taking off from Jersey Airport, killing the pilot.\n\n On 1 October 1980, a private Cessna Citation (registration: G-BPCP) crashed on approach to Jersey Airport, killing the only pilot who was on a flight from Cardiff.\n\n On 23 May 1995, a Brymon Airways Bombardier Dash 8 (registration: G-BRYJ) tail struck the runway 27 at Jersey Airport. The incident caused some damage to the tail of the aircraft. None of the 4 crew and 44 passengers were injured in the incident.\n\n On 5 June 2001, a Channel Express cargo flight from Jersey Airport to Bournemouth Airport but just minutes after take off engine one caught fire. The Fokker F-27 Friendship landed back at Jersey and none of the 3 crew were injured.\n\n On 12 November 2011, a Piper PA-28-181 Archer II (registration: G-BXRG) owned by Alderney Flying Training Ltd. ditched in the sea near the Casquettes, 25 miles northwest of Alderney. The reason for the accident is not yet known. Of the two occupants in the aircraft, the passenger was rescued by a merchant ship. The pilot has not been found.\n\n"}
{"id": "3572701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3572701", "title": "List of people on the postage stamps of Djibouti", "text": "List of people on the postage stamps of Djibouti\n\nThis is a list of people on the postage stamps of Djibouti and its precursors.\n\nNo identifiable persons are depicted on the postage stamps of Obock.\n\nNo identifiable persons are depicted on the postage stamps of the French colony of Djibouti.\n\n\n\nThis list is complete through 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18122127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18122127", "title": "List of post-nominal letters in Canada", "text": "List of post-nominal letters in Canada\n\nThis is a list of post-nominal letters used in Canada. The order in which they follow an individual's name is: 1. Distinctions conferred directly by the Crown; 2. University degrees: 3.\nMemberships of societies and other distinctions. Normally no more than two are given, representing the highest award of each type. For decorations and medals, the order of precedence is the same as the order of precedence for the wearing of order insignias, decorations, and medals, as laid out by the Department of Canadian Heritage.\n\nAny person who, prior to 1 June 1972, was a member of a British order or the recipient of a British decoration or medal may use the post-nominal letters for the decoration or medal together with those of any Canadian order, decoration or medal.\n\nCanadians can still be awarded British medals, as well as those from other countries, but this must first be approved by the Government of Canada. (See Nickle Resolution)\n\n"}
{"id": "29704635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29704635", "title": "List of unproduced Disney animated shorts and feature films", "text": "List of unproduced Disney animated shorts and feature films\n\nThis is a list of unmade and unreleased animated shorts and features by The Walt Disney Company. Some of these films were, or still are, in development limbo.\n\nNote: Disney studios produced an animated sequence for Samuel Goldwyn's film \"Up in Arms\", which was unused in the final version of the film.\n\nNote: \"Fun and Fancy Free\", released in 1947, was originally planned to be two separate feature films.\n\nNote: \"The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad\", released in 1949, was originally planned to be two separate feature films.\n\nFollowing the acquisition of Pixar in March 2006, DisneyToon Studios president Sharon Morrill stepped down, and the animation studio units under the Walt Disney Company underwent corporate restructuring as the Pixar leadership assumed more control. Thus, most sequels, plus a prequel series, out of DisneyToon Studios were canceled.\n\n"}
{"id": "185888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185888", "title": "Lists by country", "text": "Lists by country\n\nThis is a series of lists by country. The lists generally cover topics related to sovereign countries; however, states with limited recognition are also included.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "552927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=552927", "title": "Manila galleon", "text": "Manila galleon\n\nThe Manila Galleons (; ) were Spanish trading ships which for two and a half centuries linked the Philippines with Mexico across the Pacific Ocean, making one or two round-trip voyages per year between the ports of Acapulco and Manila, which were both part of New Spain. The name of the galleon changed to reflect the city that the ship sailed from. The term \"Manila Galleons\" is also used to refer to the trade route itself between Acapulco and Manila, which lasted from 1565 to 1815.\n\nThe Manila Galleons were also known in New Spain as \"La Nao de la China\" (The China Ship) because it carried largely Chinese goods, shipped from Manila.\n\nThe Manila Galleon trade route was inaugurated in 1565 after Augustinian friar and navigator Andrés de Urdaneta discovered the \"tornaviaje\" or return route from the Philippines to Mexico. The first successful round trips were made by Urdaneta and by Alonso de Arellano that year. The route lasted until 1815 when the Mexican War of Independence broke out. The Manila galleons sailed the Pacific for 250 years, bringing to the Americas cargoes of luxury goods such as spices and porcelain, in exchange for silver. The route also created a cultural exchange that shaped the identities and culture of the countries involved.\n\nIn 2015, the Philippines and Mexico began preparations for the nomination of the Manila-Acapulco Galleon Trade Route in the UNESCO World Heritage List, with backing from Spain. Spain has also suggested the tri-national nomination of the Archives on the Manila-Acapulco Galleons in the UNESCO Memory of the World Register.\n\nIn 1521, a Spanish expedition led by Ferdinand Magellan sailed west across the Pacific using the westward trade winds. The expedition discovered the Mariana Islands and the Philippines and claimed them for Spain. Although Magellan died there, one of his ships made it back to Spain by continuing westward.\n\nIn order to settle and trade with these islands from the Americas, an eastward maritime return path was necessary. The first ship to try this a few years later failed. In 1529, Álvaro de Saavedra Cerón also tried sailing east from the Philippines, but could not find the eastward winds across the Pacific. In 1543, Bernardo de la Torre also failed. In 1542, however, Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo helped pave the way by sailing north from Mexico to explore the Pacific coast, reaching as far north as the Russian River, just north of the 38th parallel.\n\nThe Manila-Acapulco galleon trade finally began when Spanish navigators Alonso de Arellano and Andrés de Urdaneta discovered the eastward return route in 1565. Sailing as part of the expedition commanded by Miguel López de Legazpi to conquer the Philippines in 1565, Arellano and Urdaneta were given the task of finding a return route. Reasoning that the trade winds of the Pacific might move in a gyre as the Atlantic winds did, they had to sail north to the 38th parallel north, off the east coast of Japan, before catching the eastward-blowing winds (\"westerlies\") that would take them back across the Pacific.\n\nReaching the west coast of North America, Urdaneta's ship the \"San Pedro\" hit the coast near Cape Mendocino, California, then followed the coast south to San Blas and later to Acapulco, arriving on October 8, 1565. Most of his crew died on the long initial voyage, for which they had not sufficiently provisioned. Arellano, who had taken a more southerly route, had already arrived.\n\nThe English privateer Francis Drake also reached the California coast, in 1579. After capturing a Spanish ship heading for Manila, Drake turned north, hoping to meet another Spanish treasure ship coming south on its return from Manila to Acapulco. He failed in that regard, but staked an English claim somewhere on the northern California coast. Although the ship's log and other records were lost, the officially accepted location is now called Drakes Bay, on Point Reyes south of Cape Mendocino.\n\nBy the 18th century, it was understood that a less northerly track was sufficient when nearing the North American coast, and galleon navigators steered well clear of the rocky and often fogbound northern and central California coast. According to historian William Lytle Schurz, \"They generally made their landfall well down the coast, somewhere between Point Conception and Cape San Lucas ... After all, these were preeminently merchant ships, and the business of exploration lay outside their field, though chance discoveries were welcomed\".\n\nThe first motivation for land exploration of present-day California was to scout out possible way-stations for the seaworn Manila galleons on the last leg of their journey. Early proposals came to little, but in 1769, the Portola expedition established Alta California ports at San Diego and Monterey, providing safe harbors for returning Manila galleons.\n\nIn Manila, the safety of ocean crossings was commended to the virgin Nuestra Señora de la Soledad de Porta Vaga in masses held by the Archbishop of Manila. If the expedition was successful the voyagers would go to the La Ermita (church) to pay homage, and offer gold and other precious gems or jewelries from Hispanic countries, to the image of the virgin. So it came to be that the Virgin was named the \"Queen of the Galleons\".\nTrade with Ming China via Manila served a major source of revenue for the Spanish Empire and as a fundamental source of income for Spanish colonists in the Philippine Islands. Until 1593, two or more ships would set sail annually from each port. The Manila trade became so lucrative that Seville merchants petitioned king Philip II of Spain to protect the monopoly of the Casa de Contratación based in Seville. This led to the passing of a decree in 1593 that set a limit of two ships sailing each year from either port, with one kept in reserve in Acapulco and one in Manila. An \"armada\" or armed escort of galleons, was also approved. Due to official attempts at controlling the galleon trade, contraband and understating of ships' cargo became widespread.\n\nBetween 1609 and 1616, 9 galleons and 6 galleys were constructed in Philippine shipyards. The average cost was 78,000 pesos per galleon and at least 2,000 trees. The galleons constructed included the \"San Juan Bautista\", \"San Marcos\", \"Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe\", \"Angel de la Guardia\", \"San Felipe\", \"Santiago\", \"Salbador\", \"Espiritu Santo\", and \"San Miguel\". \"From 1729 to 1739, the main purpose of the Cavite shipyard was the construction and outfitting of the galleons for the Manila to Acapulco trade run.\"\n\nDue to the route's high profitability but long voyage time, it was essential to build the largest possible galleons, which were the largest class of ships known to have been built. In the 16th century, they averaged from 1,700 to 2,000 tons, were built of Philippine hardwoods and could carry 300 - 500 passengers. The \"Concepción\", wrecked in 1638, was long and displacing some 2,000 tons. The \"Santísima Trinidad\" was 51.5 m long. Most of the ships were built in the Philippines and only eight in Mexico. The Manila-Acapulco galleon trade ended in 1815, a few years before Mexico gained independence from Spain in 1821. After this, the Spanish Crown took direct control of the Philippines, and governed directly from Madrid. This became manageable in the mid-19th century upon the invention of steam power ships and the opening of the Suez Canal, which reduced the travel time from Spain to the Philippines to 40 days.\n\nThe galleon trade was supplied by merchants largely from port areas of Fujian who traveled to Manila to sell the Spaniards spices, porcelain, ivory, lacquerware, processed silk cloth and other valuable commodities. Galleons transported the goods to be sold in the Americas, namely in New Spain and Peru as well as in European markets. East Asia trading primarily functioned on a silver standard due to Ming China's use of silver ingots as a medium of exchange. As such, goods were mostly bought by silver mined from Mexico and Potosí. In addition, slaves from various origins were transported from Manila. The cargoes arrived in Acapulco and were transported by land across Mexico to the port of Veracruz on the Gulf of Mexico, where they were loaded onto the Spanish treasure fleet bound for Spain. This route was the alternative to the trip west across the Indian Ocean, and around the Cape of Good Hope, which was reserved to Portugal according to the Treaty of Tordesillas. It also avoided stopping over at ports controlled by competing powers, such as Portugal and the Netherlands. From the early days of exploration, the Spanish knew that the American continent was much narrower across the Panamanian isthmus than across Mexico. They tried to establish a regular land crossing there, but the thick jungle and malaria made it impractical.\n\nIt took at least four months to sail across the Pacific Ocean from Manila to Acapulco, and the galleons were the main link between the Philippines and the viceregal capital at Mexico City and thence to Spain itself. Many of the so-called \"Kastilas\" or Spaniards in the Philippines were actually of Mexican descent, and the Hispanic culture of the Philippines is somewhat close to Mexican culture. Even after the galleon era, and at the time when Mexico finally gained its independence, the two nations still continued to trade, except for a brief lull during the Spanish–American War.\n\nThe wrecks of the Manila galleons are legends second only to the wrecks of treasure ships in the Caribbean. In 1568, Miguel López de Legazpi's own ship, the \"San Pablo\" (300 tons), was the first Manila galleon to be wrecked en route to Mexico. Between the years 1576 when the \"Espiritu Santo\" was lost and 1798 when the \"San Cristobal (2)\" was lost there were twenty Manila galleons wrecked within the Philippine archipelago.\n\nBetween 1565 and 1815 Spain owned 108 galleons, of which 26 were lost at sea for various reasons. Significant galleon captures by the British occurred in 1587 when the \"Santa Anna\" was captured by Thomas Cavendish, in 1709 with the \"Encarnacion\", in 1743 when the \"Nuestra Senora de la Covadonga\" was taken by George Anson on his voyage around the world, and in 1762 with the \"Nuestra Senora de la Santisima Trinidad\". Until 1593, four galleons travelled at the same time, later only two.\n\nFor 250 years, hundreds of Manila galleons traveled from present-day Mexico to the Philippines, with their route taking them south of the Hawaiian Islands. And yet, no historical records of any contact between the two cultures exist. British historian Henry Kamen maintains that the Spanish did not have the ability to properly explore the Pacific Ocean, and were not capable of finding the islands which lay at a latitude 20° north of the westbound galleon route and its currents. However, Spanish activity in the Pacific was paramount until the late 18th century. Andrés de Urdaneta was the first to sail the Pacific from west to east, establishing the maritime route from Asia to America in 1565, which lasted until 1815. Spanish expeditions discovered Guam, the Marianas, the Carolines and the Philippines in the North Pacific, as well as Tuvalu, the Marquesas, the Solomon Islands and New Guinea in the South Pacific. Spanish navigators also discovered the Pitcairn and Vanuatu archipelagos during their search for Terra Australis in the 17th century.\n\nThis navigational activity poses questions as to whether Spanish explorers did arrive in the Hawaiian Islands two centuries before Captain James Cook's first visit in 1778. Ruy López de Villalobos commanded a fleet of six ships that left Acapulco in 1542 with a Spanish sailor named Ivan Gaetan or Juan Gaetano aboard as pilot. Depending on the interpretation, Gaetano's reports seem to describe either the discovery of Hawaii or the Marshall Islands in 1555. If it was Hawaii, Gaetano would have been one of the first Europeans to find the islands.\nAfter 1565, Urdaneta's new route allowed Manila galleons to sail regularly between Mexico and the Philippines for two and a half centuries, ending in 1815. The westward route from Mexico passed south of Hawaii, making a short stopover in Guam before heading for Manila. The exact route was kept secret to protect the Spanish trade monopoly against competing powers, and to avoid Dutch and English pirates. Due to this policy of discretion, if the Spanish did find Hawaii during their voyages, they would not have published their findings and the discovery would have remained unknown. From Gaetano's account, the Hawaiian islands were not known to have any valuable resources, so the Spanish would not have made an effort to settle them. This happened in the case of the Marianas and the Carolines, which were not effectively settled until the second half of the 17th century. Spanish archives contain a chart that depicts islands in the latitude of Hawaii but with the longitude ten degrees east of the Islands (reliable methods of determining longitude were not developed until the mid-eighteenth century). In this manuscript, the Island of Maui is named \"La Desgraciada\" (the unhappy, or unfortunate), and what appears to be the Island of Hawaii is named \"La Mesa\" (the table). Islands resembling Kahoolawe, Lanai, and Molokai are named \"Los Monjes\" (the monks).\n\nThe theory that Hawaii was discovered by the Spanish is reinforced by the findings of William Ellis, a writer and missionary who lived in early 19th century Hawaii, and recorded several folk stories about foreigners who had visited Hawaii prior to first contact with Cook. According to Hawaiian writer Herb Kawainui Kane, one of these stories:\nconcerned seven foreigners who landed eight generations earlier at Kealakekua Bay in a painted boat with an awning or canopy over the stern. They were dressed in clothing of white and yellow, and one wore a sword at his side and a feather in his hat. On landing, they kneeled down in prayer. The Hawaiians, most helpful to those who were most helpless, received them kindly. The strangers ultimately married into the families of chiefs, but their names could not be included in genealogies\".\n\nSome scholars, particularly American, have dismissed these claims as lacking credibility. Debate continues as to whether the Hawaiian Islands were actually visited by the Spanish in the 16th century with researchers like Richard W. Rogers looking for evidence of Spanish shipwrecks.\n\nIn 2014, the idea to nominate the Manila-Acapulco Galleon Trade Route was initiated by the Mexican ambassador to UNESCO with the Filipino ambassador to UNESCO.\n\nAn Experts' Roundtable Meeting was held at the University of Santo Tomas (UST) on April 23, 2015 as part of the preparation of the Philippines for the possible transnational nomination of the Manila-Acapulco Galleon Trade Route to the World Heritage List. The nomination will be made jointly with Mexico.\n\nThe following are the experts and the topics they discussed during the roundtable meeting: Dr. Celestina Boncan on the Tornaviaje; Dr. Mary Jane A. Bolunia on Shipyards in the Bicol Region; Mr. Sheldon Clyde Jago-on, Bobby Orillaneda, and Ligaya Lacsina on Underwater Archaeology; Dr. Leovino Garcia on Maps and Cartography; Fr. Rene Javellana, S.J. on Fortifications in the Philippines; Felice Sta. Maria on Food; Dr. Fernando Zialcita on Textile; and Regalado Trota Jose on Historical Dimension. The papers presented and discussed during the roundtable meeting will be synthesized into a working document to establish the route's Outstanding Universal Value.\n\nThe Mexican side reiterated that they will also follow suit with the preparations for the route's nomination.\n\nSpain has also backed the nomination of the route in the World Heritage List and has also suggested the archives related to the route under the possession of the Philippines, Mexico, and Spain to be nominated as part of another UNESCO list, the Memory of the World Register.\n\nIn 2017, the Philippines established the Manila-Acapulco Galleon Museum in Metro Manila, one of the necessary steps in nominating the trade route to UNESCO.\n\n"}
{"id": "19489550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19489550", "title": "Mont Idoukal-n-Taghès", "text": "Mont Idoukal-n-Taghès\n\nMont Idoukal-n-Taghès (also Mont Bagzane, Mont Bagzan) is the highest mountain in Niger. Mont Idoukal-n-Taghès is located in the south central Aïr Mountains, and is at the northern end of the Bagzane plateau. The village and pilgrimage site of Abatol sits at the base of the peak. The Aouderas valley, the path of a seasonal wash (or Kouri) runs south from the foot of Idoukal-n-Taghès towards Agadez, the regional capital. The oasis town of Aouderas is just southwest of the mountain. Due to its high elevation, mount Idoukal'n'Taghes has been found to host a number of Saharan-Mediterranean and Tropical plant species that have never been recorded elsewhere in Niger.\n\nOfficial Nigerien and international sources believed Mont Gréboun, far to the north, to be the highest peak in the nation as late as 2001, when Gréboun's long standing lower measurement confirmed at 1944 m, which had variously been measured as high as 2310 m. Greboun has a much greater local relief, rising from near the desert floor, while Idoukal-n-Taghès sits atop a high massif with an average altitude above 1600 meters.\n\nTo honour the highest point in Niger, the official aircraft of the President of Niger is named \"Mont Bagzane\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43312859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43312859", "title": "Mudeungsan National Park", "text": "Mudeungsan National Park\n\nMudeungsan National Park, previously Mudeungsan Provincial Park, is located in the city of Gwangju and the province of Jeollanam-do, South Korea. The park was designated a provincial park on 22 May 1972 and was upgraded to national park status in 2012, making it South Korea's 21st national park. The park has an area of and is named after the 1,187 m tall Mudeungsan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10058578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10058578", "title": "NMEA 2000", "text": "NMEA 2000\n\nNMEA 2000, abbreviated to NMEA2k or N2K and standardised as IEC 61162-3, is a plug-and-play communications standard used for connecting marine sensors and display units within ships and boats. Communication runs at 250 kilobits-per-second and allows any sensor to talk to any display unit or other device compatible with NMEA 2000 protocols. Electrically, NMEA 2000 is compatible with the Controller Area Network (\"CAN Bus\") used on road vehicles and fuel engines. The higher-level protocol format is based on SAE J1939, with specific messages for the marine environment. Raymarine SeaTalk 2, Raymarine SeaTalk, Simrad Simnet, and Furuno CAN are rebranded implementations of NMEA 2000, though may use physical connectors different from the standardised DeviceNet Micro-C M12 5-pin screw connector, all of which are electrically compatible and can be directly connected.\n\nThe protocol is used to create a network of electronic devices—chiefly marine instruments—on a boat. Various instruments that meet the NMEA 2000 standard are connected to one central cable, known as a backbone. The backbone powers each instrument and relays data among all of the instruments on the network. This allows one display unit to show many different types of information. It also allows the instruments to work together, since they share data. NMEA 2000 is meant to be \"plug and play\" to allow devices made by different manufacturers to communicate with each other.\n\nExamples of marine electronic devices to include in a network are GPS receivers, auto pilots, wind instruments, depth sounders, navigation instruments, engine instruments, and nautical chart plotters. The interconnectivity among instruments in the network allows, for example, the GPS receiver to correct the course that the autopilot is steering.\n\nThe NMEA 2000 standard was defined by, and is controlled by, the US-based National Marine Electronics Association (NMEA). Although the NMEA divulges some information regarding the standard, it claims copyright over the standard and thus its full contents are not publicly available. For example, the NMEA publicizes which messages exist and which fields they contain, but they do not disclose how to interpret the values contained in those fields. However, enthusiasts are slowly making progress in discovering these PGN definitions.\n\nNMEA 2000 connects devices using Controller Area Network (CAN) technology originally developed for the auto industry. NMEA 2000 is based on the SAE J1939 high-level protocol, but defines its own messages. NMEA 2000 devices and J1939 devices can be made to co-exist on the same physical network.\n\nNMEA 2000 (IEC 61162-3) can be considered a successor to the NMEA 0183 (IEC 61162-1) serial data bus standard. It has a significantly higher data rate (250k bits/second vs. 4800 bits/second for NMEA 0183). It uses a compact binary message format as opposed to the ASCII serial communications protocol used by NMEA 0183. Another improvement is that NMEA 2000 supports a disciplined multiple-talker, multiple-listener data network whereas NMEA 0183 requires a single-talker, multiple-listener (simplex) serial communications protocol.\n\nThe NMEA 2000 network, like the SAE J1939 network on which it is based, is organized around a bus topology, and requires a single 120Ω termination resistor at each end of the bus. (The resistors are in parallel, so a properly terminated bus should have a total resistance of 60Ω). The maximum distance for any device from the bus is six metres. The maximum backbone cable length is 100 m (328 ft)\nThe only cabling standard approved by the NMEA for use with NMEA 2000 networks is the DeviceNet cabling standard, which is controlled by the Open DeviceNet Vendors Association. Such cabling systems are permitted to be labeled \"NMEA 2000 Approved\". The DeviceNet standard defines levels of shielding, conductor size, weather resistance, and flexibility which are not necessarily met by other cabling solutions marketed as \"NMEA 2000\" compatible.\n\nThere are two sizes of cabling defined by the DeviceNet/NMEA 2000 standard. The larger of the two sizes is denoted as \"Mini\" (or alternatively, \"Thick\") cable, and is rated to carry up to 8 Amperes of power supply current. The smaller of the two sizes is denoted as \"Micro\" (or alternatively, \"Thin\") cable using the M12 5-pin barrel connector specified in IEC 61076-2-101, and is rated to carry up to 3 Amperes of power supply current.\n\nMini cable is primarily used as a \"backbone\" (or \"trunk\") for networks on larger vessels (typically with lengths of 20 m and above), with Micro cable used for connections between the network backbone and the individual components. Networks on smaller vessels often are constructed entirely of Micro cable and connectors.\n\nAn NMEA 2000 network is not electrically compatible with an NMEA 0183 network, and so an interface device is required to send messages between devices on the different types of network. An adapter is also required if NMEA 2000 messages are to be received by or transmitted from a PC.\n\nIn accordance with the SAE J1939 protocol, NMEA 2000 messages are sent as packets that consist of a header followed by (typically) 8 bytes of data. The header for a message specifies the transmitting device, the device to which the message was sent (which may be all devices), the message priority, and the PGN (Parameter Group Number). The PGN indicates which message is being sent, and thus how the data bytes should be interpreted to determine the values of the data fields that the message contains.\n\nA parameter group definition may describe a data record that consists of more data than can be contained within a single CAN frame. NMEA 2000 transfer methods include transmitting single-frame parameter groups and two methods of transmitting multi-frame parameter groups. These transfer methods are compared below:\n\nThe Multi-Packet protocol specified in ISO 11783-3 provides for the transmission of multi-frame parameter groups up to 1,785 bytes. The protocol encapsulates the parameter group in a transport protocol, either globally or to a specific address. In case of address specific transfer (RTS/CTS), the receiving device can control the data flow in accordance with the receiving device’s available resources. In both cases (RTS/CTS) verus BAM. the message being transferred is announced in the first message. In case of CTS/RTS the receiver can refuse the message. In case of a BAM the message can simply be ignored.\n\nThe Fast Packet protocol defined in NMEA 2000 provides a means to stream up to 223 bytes of data, with the advantage that each frame retains the parameter group identity and priority. The first frame transmitted uses 2 bytes to identify sequential Fast Packet parameter groups and sequential frames within a single parameter group transmission. The first byte contains a sequence counter to distinguish consecutive transmission of the same parameter groups and a frame counter set to frame zero. The second byte in the first frame identifies the total size of the parameter group to follow. Successive frames use just single data byte for the sequence counter and the frame counter. Because many of the NMEA 2000 parameter groups exceed 8 bytes but do not require the 1,785-byte capacity of multi-packet, the default method of transmitting multi-frame parameter groups in NMEA 2000 is using the Fast Packet protocol.\n\nRegardless of which protocol is used, multi-frame parameter groups are sent on a frame-by-frame basis and may be interspersed with other higher priority parameter groups using either protocol, or even single- frame parameter groups. Each device is responsible for reassembling the parameter group once all the frames for the parameter group are transmitted.\n\nDevices go through a certification process overseen by the NMEA, and are permitted to display the \"NMEA 2000 Certified\" logo once they have completed the certification process. The certification process does not guarantee data content, that is the responsibility of the manufacturers. However, the certification process does assure that products from different manufacturers exchange data in a compatible way and that they can coexist on a network.\n\nSeveral manufacturers, including Simrad, Raymarine, Stowe, and Mastervolt, have their own proprietary networks that are compatible with or akin to NMEA 2000. Simrad's is called SimNet, and Raymarine's is called \"SeaTalk NG\". Stowe's is called \"Dataline 2000\". Some of these, such as SimNet and Seatalk NG, are a standard NMEA 2000 network but use non-standard connectors and cabling; adapters are available to convert to standard NMEA 2000 connectors, or the user can simply remove the connector and make a direct connection.\n\nThe term \"NMEA 2000\" is a registered trademark of the National Marine Electronics Association. Devices which are not \"NMEA 2000 Certified\" may not legally use the NMEA 2000 trademark in their advertising.\n\nThe following are some of the companies that have registered with the NMEA for the purpose of producing NMEA 2000 certified products:\n\nRelated standards\n\nSafety Standards using NMEA 2000 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "47156922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47156922", "title": "Northwest Passage Drive Expedition", "text": "Northwest Passage Drive Expedition\n\nThe Northwest Passage Drive Expedition (NWPDX) (2009-2011) was a multi-stage vehicular expedition from the North American mainland to Devon Island in the high Arctic, by way of the Northwest Passage. The expedition was led by planetary scientist Pascal Lee. Although the expedition was primarily logistical and was not intended to be a high fidelity simulation of a crewed pressurized rover traverse on the Moon or Mars, it was the first long-distance road trip dedicated to planetary exploration studies and provided important lessons for planning future long-range vehicular traverses off Earth. The expedition was also the first crossing of the Northwest Passage in a road vehicle. The first stage of the expedition, NWPDX-2009, established a record for the longest distance driven continuously on sea-ice in a road vehicle: .\n\nThe expedition’s main objective was to deliver the Mars Institute’s \"HMP Okarian\" rover (aka \"Moon-1 Humvee Rover\"), a modified Humvee serving as a planetary pressurized rover simulator, from the North American mainland to the Haughton-Mars Project Research Station on Devon Island. Once delivered, the \"HMP Okarian\" would be used for research - through simulations of planetary excursion missions - to plan future human Moon and Mars exploration. The Northwest Passage Drive Expedition was proposed by HMP principal investigator Pascal Lee when rover operations on Devon Island using the HMP’s first Humvee alone, the \"Mars-1\", proved too risky, and a second Humvee (the \"HMP Okarian\") became needed at the HMP site.\n\nThe expedition’s secondary objectives were scientific: to measure the thickness of the sea-ice along the Northwest Passage to document Climate change in the Arctic, to quantify the potential microbial forward contamination of future pressurized rover traverses on the Moon and Mars, and to study the logistics of planning and implementing pressurized rover traverses on the Moon and Mars.\n\nThe expedition was supported by NASA, the Mars Institute, and the SETI Institute. Other government agencies (Air National Guard, Canadian Space Agency, Nunavut Research Institute, Polar Continental Shelf Project, and others) and private partners (AM General, Bombardier Recreational Products, Mattracks Inc., First Air and others) provided additional support.\n\nThe Northwest Passage Drive Expedition took place in three stages over the course of three arctic field seasons, departing Kugluktuk on the North American mainland in April 2009, and ending at the Haughton-Mars Project Research Station on Devon Island in July 2011. The three stages of the expedition are designated NWPDX-2009, NWPDX-2010, and NWPDX-2011. \nThe NWPDX-2009 expedition departed Kugluktuk on 10 April 2009, and reached Cambridge Bay on Victoria Island on 17 April 2009. The \"HMP Okarian\" was then flown by the US Air National Guard from Cambridge Bay to Resolute Bay on Cornwallis Island in May 2009. The NWPDX-2010 expedition departed Resolute Bay on 5 May 2010, and reached the West coast of Devon Island on 16 May 2010. The NWPDX-2011 expedition departed the West coast of Devon Island on 18 July 2011, and reached the HMP Research Station on 20 July 2011. The NWPDX-2009 and 2010 expeditions consisted of the \"HMP Okarian\" equipped with tracks, and two snowmobiles, each vehicle towing a qamutiik sled loaded with equipment and supplies. The NWPDX-2011 expedition consisted of the \"HMP Okarian\" on wheels, escorted by two all-terrain vehicles or quad bikes.\n\nInitial planning of the expedition took place in 2008 and 2009. The \"HMP Okarian\" was originally a military ambulance Humvee on loan from AM General to Hollywood where it was featured in many films and TV shows, notably in \"The Rock\" (1996). When the Northwest Passage Drive Expedition project was approved, the vehicle was called back to the AM General factory to be refurbished and modified to become the \"HMP Okarian\".\n\nThe 2009 campaign was led by Lee and included geologist and explorer John Schutt as expedition navigator and field guide, arctic expert Joe Amarualik as expedition scout, vehicle engineer Jesse Weaver as expedition technician, and documentary filmmaker Mark Carroll as cameraman. The expedition departed Kugluktuk on 10 April 2009 but soon encountered difficulties with weather and thick snow cover on the sea-ice which slowed down progress and increased fuel consumption. On 15 April 2009, the \"HMP Okarian\" was almost lost in an ice lead incident, but was successfully salvaged by the expedition team. The expedition reached Cambridge Bay on 17 April 2009. The \"HMP Okarian\" was subsequently airlifted by the US Air National Guard from Cambridge Bay to Resolute Bay in May 2009.\n\nThe 2010 campaign was led by Lee and included the same team members as the NWPDX-2009 expedition, plus filmmaker Jean-Christophe Jeauffre as documentary film director. The expedition departed Resolute Bay on 5 May 2010 but the \"HMP Okarian\" soon experienced a series of mechanical problems, including the breakage of critical parts on 6 May 2010 and again on 13 May 2010. The expedition was ultimately completed when Lee sent Amarualik back to Resolute Bay solo by snowmobile to retrieve a replacement part, and later Schutt and Weaver to the HMP Research Station on Devon Island, also by snowmobile, to scavenge a replacement part from the \"Mars-1 Humvee Rover\". The expedition, including the \"HMP Okarian\", eventually reached the west coast of Devon Island on 16 May 2010, at a location subsequently named Humvee Beach.\n\nThe 2011 campaign was led by Lee and included space engineer Robert Mueller of NASA Kennedy Space Center as navigator, vehicle engineer Jesse Weaver as expedition technician, and filmmaker Jody Shapiro as cameraman. The expedition departed Humvee Beach on 18 July 2011, and reached the HMP Research Station on 20 July 2011.\n\nAlthough the expedition experienced a number of challenges, including an instance where the \"HMP Okarian\" was almost lost in a sea-ice lead, it was successful in achieving its primary goal of safely delivering the rover to the Haughton-Mars Project Research Station on Devon Island. The expedition was also successful in meeting its secondary goal of collecting new data relating to the planning and implementation of future long-range crewed pressurized rover traverses on the Moon and Mars, including the first field study of the risk of forward contamination during future crewed rover operations. While the \"HMP Okarian\" experienced a series mechanical problems during its journey, some requiring that crew members be dispatched to retrieve spare parts and supplies, all such retrievals and repairs were carried out by the expedition crew alone, as a crew on the Moon or Mars would need to were it stranded some distance away from a base or a cache of supplies.\nAncillary to its main goals, the expedition achieved the first crossing of the Northwest Passage in a road vehicle. The first stage of the expedition, NWPDX-2009, established a record for the longest distance driven continuously on sea-ice in a road vehicle: .\n\nThe \"HMP Okarian\" was originally named \"Moon-1 Humvee Rover\" and painted yellow, to distinguish it from the red-colored \"Mars-1 Humvee Rover\" already is use on the Haughton-Mars Project. The \"Moon-1\" was subsequently renamed \"Okarian\", in reference to the \"Okarians\" imagined by Edgar Rice Burroughs in \"The Warlord of Mars\", a race of Yellow Martians who migrated to the North Pole of Mars and lived there in domed cities.\n\nThe Northwest Passage Drive Expedition is captured in the 2016 documentary film \"Passage to Mars\" directed by Jean-Christophe Jeauffre, and narrated by Zachary Quinto as Pascal Lee.\n"}
{"id": "51468589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51468589", "title": "Otto Kersten", "text": "Otto Kersten\n\nOtto Kersten (23 December 1839 in Altenburg – 22 November 1900 in Altenburg) was a German chemist and geographer.\n\nHe studied chemistry and natural sciences at the University of Leipzig, and after graduation, worked as an assistant at the vocational school in Chemnitz. In 1862 he took part in Karl Klaus von der Decken's expedition in East Africa, where the two men made a partial ascent (4280 m) of Mount Kilimanjaro. In 1863 he traveled with von der Decken to the Seychelles and the Mascarenes, and during the following year, Kersten visited Madagascar, the Comoros and Mafia Island. In 1865 he returned to Europe.\n\nFrom 1870 he served at the German consulate in Jerusalem, and in 1875 became manager of a chemical factory in Berlin. In 1878, with Robert Jannasch, he founded the \"Zentralverein für Handelsgeographie\" (Central Association for Economic Geography). In 1883 he carried out economic geography research in Morocco.\n\nIn 1869–79 he published \"Baron Carl Claus von der Decken's Reisen in Ost-Afrika in den Jahren 1859 bis 1865\" (\"Decken's journeys in East Africa in 1859–65\"; 4 volumes). Its editors included Wilhelm Peters, Jean Cabanis, Franz Martin Hilgendorf, Eduard von Martens, Carl Eduard Adolph Gerstaecker, Otto Finsch, Gustav Hartlaub, et al.\n\nAnimals and plants with the specific epithets of \"kersteni\" and \"kerstenii\" commemorate his name; examples being \"Lygodium kerstenii\" (a fern species), \"Rieppeleon kerstenii\" (Kenya pigmy chameleon), and \"Pseudagrion kersteni\" (Kersten's sprite).\n"}
{"id": "47543139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47543139", "title": "Paraetacene", "text": "Paraetacene\n\nParaetacene () was a district of ancient Persis which extended along the whole of its northern frontier in the direction of Media Magna, to which, indeed, it in part belonged. The name is first mentioned by Herodotus, who calls one of the tribes of the Medians \"Paraetaceni\". The same district comprehended what are now called the Bakhtyari mountains and tribes. The whole country was rugged and mountainous and appears to have been inhabited, like the adjacent province of Cossaea, by wild and robber tribes. The inhabitants were called \"Paraetaceni\" or \"Paraetacae.\"\n\nThere has been considerable discussion with regard to the origin of this name. The best determination seems to be that it is derived from a Persian word, \"Paruta\", signifying mountain; and this again, from the Sanskrit \"Parvata\". It will be observed that while Herodotus gives the Paraetceni a Median origin, and Stephanus of Byzantium calls Paraetaca a Median town, Strabo gives one portion of the district so named to the Assyrian province of Apolloniatis or Sittacene. There were, however, other places of the same name at considerable distances from the Median or Persian province. Thus, one is mentioned between Bactriana and Sogdiana, between the Oxus and Jaxartes, and another between Drangiana and Arachosia. In India, too, we find the \"Paryeti Montes\", one of the outlying spurs of the still greater chain of the Paropamisus (or Hindu Kush).\n"}
{"id": "3527070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3527070", "title": "Places of interest in Bermuda", "text": "Places of interest in Bermuda\n\nThe following is a list of places of interest in Bermuda\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3536338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3536338", "title": "Ponta do Seixas", "text": "Ponta do Seixas\n\nPonta do Seixas (), also known as Cape Branco, is a cape on the Atlantic coast of Paraíba state, eastern Brazil, that forms the easternmost point of the American continents, roughly 8 km (5 mi) southeast of João Pessoa, the state capital.\n\nIt is surrounded by white sand beaches bordered by flat-topped forms of sedimentary strata called \"tabuleiros\", which rise sharply above the beaches to heights between 150 and 500 ft, and enjoys abundant rainfall. It lies on the coastal highway connecting João Pessoa and the port of Cabedelo farther north.\n"}
{"id": "37968361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37968361", "title": "Pothole (landform)", "text": "Pothole (landform)\n\nThe Earth scientists, who study rivers and streams, define a pothole as a smooth, bowl-shaped or cylindrical hollow, generally deeper than wide, found carved into the rocky bed of a watercourse. Other names used for riverine potholes are pot, (stream) kettle, giant's kettle, evorsion, hollow, rock mill, churn hole, eddy mill, and kolk. Although somewhat related to a pothole in origin, a plunge pool (or plunge basin or waterfall lake) is the deep depression in a stream bed at the base of a waterfall; it is created by the erosional forces of turbulence generated by water falling on rocks at a waterfall's base where the water impacts. Potholes are also sometimes referred to as swirlholes. This word was created to avoid confusion with an English term for a vertical or steeply inclined karstic shaft in limestone. However, given widespread usage of this term for a type of fluvial sculpted bedrock landform, \"pothole\" is preferred in usage to \"swirlhole\".\n\nThe term \"pothole\" is also used to refer to other types of depressions and basins that differ in origin. For example, some authors refer to \"panholes\" found in the Colorado Plateau also as \"potholes\". Other terms used for panholes are \"gnamma\" (Australia), \"opferkessel\" (German, roughly “sacrificial basin”), \"armchair hollows\", \"weathering pans\" (or \"pits\") and \"solution pans\" or \"solution pits\". In another case, the term \"pothole\" is used to refer to a shallow depression, generally less than in area that occurs between dunes or on subdued morainic relief on a prairie, as in Minnesota and the Dakotas, and often contains an intermittent pond or marsh that serves as a nesting place for waterfowl.\n\nThe consensus of geomorphologists and sedimentologists is that fluvial potholes are created by the grinding action of either a stone or stones or coarse sediment (sand, gravel, pebbles, boulders), whirled around and kept in motion by eddies within and force of the stream current in a given spot. Being a spectacular feature of bedrock river channels, they have been and still are studied extensively and considered as a key factor in bedrock channel development and morphology and important factor in the incision of bedrock channels.\n"}
{"id": "682496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682496", "title": "Princely state", "text": "Princely state\n\nA princely state, also called native state, feudatory state or Indian state (for those states on the subcontinent), was a vassal state under a local or regional ruler in a subsidiary alliance with the British Raj. Though the history of the princely states of the subcontinent dates from at least the classical period of Indian history, the predominant usage of the term \"princely state\" specifically refers to a semi-sovereign principality on the Indian subcontinent during the British Raj that was not directly governed by the British, but rather by a local ruler, subject to a form of indirect rule on some matters. In actual fact, the imprecise doctrine of paramountcy allowed the government of British India to interfere in the internal affairs of princely states and edict laws that applied to all of India when it deemed it necessary.\n\nAt the time of the British withdrawal, 565 princely states were officially recognised in the Indian subcontinent, apart from thousands of thakurs, taluqdars, zamindaris and jagirs. In 1947, princely states covered 48% of area of pre-Independent India and constituted 28% of its population. The most important states had their own British Political Residencies: Hyderabad, Mysore and Travancore in the South followed by Jammu and Kashmir and Sikkim in the Himalayas, and Indore in Central India. The most prominent among those – roughly a quarter of the total – had the status of a salute state, one whose ruler was entitled to a set number of gun salutes on ceremonial occasions.\n\nThe princely states varied greatly in status, size, and wealth; the premier 21-gun salute states of Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir were each over 200,000 km in size. In 1941, Hyderabad had a population of over 16 million, while Jammu and Kashmir had a population of slightly over 4 million. At the other end of the scale, the non-salute principality of Lawa covered an area of 49 km, with a population of just below 3,000. Some two hundred of the lesser states had an area of less than 25 km (10 mi). \n\nThe era of the princely states effectively ended with Indian independence in 1947. By 1950, almost all of the principalities had acceded to either India or Pakistan. The accession process was largely peaceful, except in the cases of Jammu and Kashmir (whose ruler opted for independence but decided to accede to India following an invasion by Pakistan-based forces), Hyderabad (whose ruler opted for independence in 1947, followed a year later by the police action and annexation of the state by India), Junagadh (whose ruler acceded to Pakistan, but was annexed by India). and Kalat (whose ruler declared independence in 1947, followed in 1948 by the state's annexation).\n\nAs per the terms of accession, the erstwhile Indian princes received privy purses (government allowances), and initially retained their statuses, privileges, and autonomy in internal matters during a transitional period which lasted until 1956. During this time, the former princely states were merged into unions, each of which was headed by a former ruling prince with the title of \"Rajpramukh\" (ruling chief), equivalent to a state governor. In 1956, the position of \"Rajpramukh\" was abolished and the federations dissolved, the former principalities becoming part of Indian states. The states which acceded to Pakistan retained their status until the promulgation of a new constitution in 1956, when most became part of the province of West Pakistan; a few of the former states retained their autonomy until 1969 when they were fully integrated into Pakistan. The Indian Government formally derecognised the princely families in 1971, followed by the Government of Pakistan in 1972.\n\nThough principalities and chiefdoms existed on the Indian subcontinent from at least the Iron Age, the history of princely states on the Indian subcontinent dates to at least the 5th–6th centuries C.E., during the rise of the middle kingdoms of India following the collapse of the Gupta Empire. Many of the future ruling clan groups – notably the Rajputs – began to emerge during this period; by the 13th–14th centuries, many of the Rajput clans had firmly established semi-independent principalities in the north-west, along with several in the north-east. The widespread expansion of Islam during this time brought many principalities into tributary relations with Islamic sultanates, notably the Delhi Sultanate and Bahmani Sultanate. In the south, however, the Hindu Vijayanagara Empire remained dominant until the mid-17th century; among its tributaries was the future Mysore Kingdom.\n\nThe Turco-Mongol Mughal Empire brought a majority of the existing Indian kingdoms and principalities under its suzerainty by the 17th century, beginning with its foundation in the early 16th century. The advent of Sikhism resulted in the creation of the Sikh Empire in the north by the early 18th century, by which time the Mughal Empire was in full decline. At the same time, the Marathas carved out their own states to form the Maratha Empire. Through the 18th century, former Mughal governors formed their own independent states. In the north-west, some of those – such as Tonk – allied themselves with various groups, including the Marathas and the Durrani Empire, itself formed in 1747 from a loose agglomeration of tribal chiefdoms that composed former Mughal territories. In 1768, Prithvi Narayan Shah, ruler of a small principality in Gorkha likewise established the Kingdom of Nepal from a federation of small states, expanding its influence over much of north-eastern India; in the south, the principalities of Hyderabad and Arcot were fully established by the 1760s, though they nominally remained vassals of the Mughal Emperor.\n\nIndia under the British \"Raj\" (the \"Indian Empire\") consisted of two types of territory: British India and the \"Native states\" or \"Princely states\". In its Interpretation Act 1889, the British Parliament adopted the following definitions:\n(4.) The expression \"British India\" shall mean all territories and places within Her Majesty's dominions which are for the time being governed by Her Majesty through the Governor-General of India or through any governor or other officer subordinate to the Governor-General of India.\n(5.) The expression \"India\" shall mean British India together with any territories of any native prince or chief under the suzerainty of Her Majesty exercised through the Governor-General of India, or through any governor or other officer subordinate to the Governor-General of India.\nIn general the term \"British India\" had been used (and is still used) also to refer to the regions under the rule of the East India Company in India from 1774 to 1858. The term has also been used to refer to the \"British in India\".\n\nThe British Crown's suzerainty over 175 princely states, generally the largest and most important, was exercised in the name of the British Crown by the central government of British India under the Viceroy; the remaining approximately 400 states were influenced by Agents answerable to the provincial governments of British India under a Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, or Chief Commissioner. A clear distinction between \"dominion\" and \"suzerainty\" was supplied by the jurisdiction of the courts of law: the law of British India rested upon the legislation enacted by the British Parliament, and the legislative powers those laws vested in the various governments of British India, both central and local; in contrast, the courts of the princely states existed under the authority of the respective rulers of those states.\n\nThe Indian rulers bore various titles – including Chhatrapati (exclusively used by the 3 Bhonsle dynasty of the Marathas) (\"emperor\"), Maharaja or Raja (\"king\"), Sultan, Nawab, Emir, Raje, Nizam, Wadiyar (by the Maharajas of Mysore), Agniraj Maharaj for the rulers of Bhaddaiyan Raj, Chogyal, Nawab (\"governor\"), Nayak, Wāli, Inamdar, Saranjamdar and many others. Whatever the literal meaning and traditional prestige of the ruler's actual title, the British government translated them all as \"prince,\" to avoid the implication that the native rulers could be \"kings\" with status equal to that of the British monarch.\nMore prestigious Hindu rulers (mostly existing before the Mughal Empire, or having split from such old states) often used the title \"Raja,\"Raje\" or a variant such as Rai, \"Rana,\" \"Rao,\" \"Rawat\" or Rawal. Also in this 'class' were several Thakurs or Thai ores and a few particular titles, such as Sardar, Mankari (or Mānkari/Maankari), Deshmukh, Sar Desai, Raja Inamdar, Saranjamdar.\n\nThe most prestigious Hindu rulers usually had the prefix \"maha\" (\"great\", compare for example Grand Duke) in their titles, as in \"Maharaja, Maharana, Maharao\", etc. The states of Travancore and Cochin had queens regnant styled Maharani, generally the female forms applied only to sisters, spouses and widows, who could however act as regents.\n\nThere were also compound titles, such as (Maha)rajadhiraj, Raj-i-rajgan, often relics from an elaborate system of hierarchical titles under the Mughal emperors. For example, the addition of the adjective \"Bahadur\" raised the status of the titleholder one level.\n\nFurthermore, most dynasties used a variety of additional titles, such as Varma in South India. This should not be confused with various titles and suffixes not specific to princes but used by entire (sub)castes.\n\nThe Sikh princes concentrated at Punjab usually adopted Hindu type titles when attaining princely rank; at a lower level Sardar was used.\n\nMuslim rulers almost all used the title \"Nawab\" (the Arabic honorific of \"naib\", \"deputy,\" used of the Mughal governors, who became de facto autonomous with the decline of the Mughal Empire), with the prominent exceptions of the Nizam of Hyderabad & Berar, the Wāli/Khan of Kalat and the Wāli of Swat.\nOther less usual titles included Darbar Sahib, Dewan, Jam, Mehtar (unique to Chitral) and Mir (from Emir).\n\nHowever, the actual importance of a princely state cannot be read from the title of its ruler, which was usually \"granted\" (or at least recognised) as a favour, often in recognition for loyalty and services rendered to the Mughal Empire. Although some titles were raised once or even repeatedly, there was no automatic updating when a state gained or lost real power. In fact, princely titles were even awarded to holders of domains (mainly jagirs) and even taluqars and zamindars (tax collectors), which were not states at all. Various sources give significantly different numbers of states and domains of the various types. Even in general, the definition of titles and domains are clearly not well-established.\n\nIn addition to their titles all princely rulers were eligible to be appointed to certain British orders of chivalry associated with India, the Most Exalted Order of the Star of India and the Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire. Women could be appointed as \"Knights\" (instead of Dames) of these orders. Rulers entitled to 21-gun and 19-gun salutes were normally appointed to the highest rank, Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India.\n\nMany Indian princes served in the British Army, the Indian Army, or in local guard or police forces, often rising to high ranks; some even served while on the throne. Many of these were appointed as an Aide de camp, either to the ruling prince of their own house (in the case of relatives of such rulers) or indeed to the British King-Emperor. Many saw active service, both on the subcontinent and on other fronts, during both World Wars.\n\nApart from those members of the princely houses who entered military service and who distinguished themselves, a good number of princes received honorary ranks as officers in the British and Indian Armed Forces. Those ranks were conferred based on several factors, including their heritage, lineage, gun-salute (or lack of one) as well as personal character or martial traditions. After the First and Second World Wars, the princely rulers of several of the major states, including Gwalior, Patiala, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Jammu and Kashmir and Hyderabad, were given honorary general officer ranks as a result of their states' contributions to the war effort.\n\nIt was also not unusual for members of princely houses to be appointed to various colonial offices, often far from their native state, or to enter the diplomatic corps.\n\nThe gun salute system was used to set unambiguously the precedence of the major rulers in the area in which the British East India Company was active, or generally of the states and their dynasties. As heads of a state, certain princely rulers were entitled to be saluted by the firing of an odd number of guns between three and 21, with a greater number of guns indicating greater prestige. Generally, the number of guns remained the same for all successive rulers of a particular state, but individual princes were sometimes granted additional guns on a personal basis. Furthermore, rulers were sometimes granted additional gun salutes within their own territories only, constituting a semi-promotion. The states of all these rulers (about 120) were known as salute states.\n\nAfter Indian Independence, the Maharana of Udaipur displaced the Nizam of Hyderabad as the most senior prince in India, because Hyderabad State had not acceded to the new Dominion of India, and the style \"Highness\" was extended to all rulers entitled to 9-gun salutes. When the princely states had been integrated into the Indian Union their rulers were promised continued privileges and an income (known as the Privy Purse) for their upkeep. Subsequently, when the Indian government abolished the Privy Purse in 1971, the whole princely order ceased to be recognised under Indian law, although many families continue to retain their social prestige informally; some descendants of the rulers are still prominent in regional or national politics, diplomacy, business and high society.\n\nAt the time of Indian independence, only five rulers – the Nizam of Hyderabad, the Maharaja of Mysore, the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir state, the Maharaja Gaekwad of Baroda and the Maharaja Scindia of Gwalior – were entitled to a 21-gun salute. Five more – the Nawab of Bhopal, the Maharaja Holkar of Indore, the Maharana of Udaipur, the Maharaja of Kolhapur and the Maharaja of Travancore – were entitled to 19-gun salutes. The most senior princely ruler was the Nizam of Hyderabad, who was entitled to the unique style \"Exalted Highness\" and 21-gun salute. Other princely rulers entitled to salutes of 11 guns (soon 9 guns too) or more were entitled to the style \"Highness\". No special style was used by rulers entitled to lesser gun salutes.\n\nAs \"paramount ruler\", and successor to the Mughals, the British \"King-Emperor\" of India, for whom the style of Majesty was reserved, was entitled to an 'imperial' 101-gun salute—in the European tradition also the number of guns fired to announce the birth of an heir (male) to the throne.\n\nThere was no strict correlation between the levels of the titles and the classes of gun salutes, the real measure of precedence, but merely a growing percentage of higher titles in classes with more guns.\nAs a rule the majority of gun-salute princes had at least nine, with numbers below that usually the prerogative of Arab Sheikhs of the Aden protectorate, also under British protection.\n\nThere were many so-called non-salute states of lower prestige. Since the total of salute states was 117 and there were more than 500 princely states, most rulers were not entitled to any gun salute. Not all of these were minor rulers – Surguja State, for example, was both larger and more populous than Karauli State, but the Maharaja of Karauli was entitled to a 17-gun salute and the Maharaja of Surguja was not entitled to any gun salute at all.\n\nA number of princes, in the broadest sense of the term, were not even acknowledged as such. On the other hand, the dynasties of certain defunct states were allowed to keep their princely status – they were known as political pensioners, such as the Nawab of Oudh. There were also certain estates of British India which were rendered as political saranjams, having equal princely status. Though none of these princes were awarded gun salutes, princely titles in this category were recognised as a form of vassals of salute states, and were not even in direct relation with the paramount power.\n\nA controversial aspect of East India Company rule was the doctrine of lapse, a policy under which lands whose feudal ruler died (or otherwise became unfit to rule) without a male biological heir (as opposed to an adopted son) would become directly controlled by the Company and an adopted son would not become the ruler of the princely state. This policy went counter to Indian tradition where, unlike Europe, it was far more the accepted norm for a ruler to appoint his own heir.\n\nThe doctrine of lapse was pursued most vigorously by the Governor-General Sir James Ramsay, 10th Earl (later 1st Marquess) of Dalhousie. Dalhousie annexed seven states, including Awadh (Oudh), whose Nawabs he had accused of misrule, and the Maratha states of Nagpur, Jhansi and Satara and Sambalpur and Thanjavur. Resentment over the annexation of these states turned to indignation when the heirlooms of the Maharajas of Nagpur were auctioned off in Calcutta. Dalhousie's actions contributed to the rising discontent amongst the upper castes which played a large part in the outbreak of the Indian mutiny of 1857. The last Mughal Badshah (emperor), whom many of the mutineers saw as a figurehead to rally around, was deposed following its suppression.\n\nIn response to the unpopularity of the doctrine, it was discontinued with the end of Company rule and the British Parliament's assumption of direct power over India.\n\nBy treaty, the British controlled the external affairs of the princely states absolutely. As the states were not British possessions, they retained control over their own internal affairs, subject to a degree of British influence which in many states was substantial.\n\nBy the beginning of the 20th century, relations between the British and the four largest states – Hyderabad, Mysore, Jammu and Kashmir, and Baroda – were directly under the control of the Governor-General of India, in the person of a British Resident. Two agencies, for Rajputana and Central India, oversaw twenty and 148 princely states respectively. The remaining princely states had their own British political officers, or Agents, who answered to the administrators of India's provinces. The Agents of five princely states were then under the authority of Madras, 354 under Bombay, 26 of Bengal, two under Assam, 34 under Punjab, fifteen under Central Provinces and Berar and two under United Provinces.\n\nThe Chamber of Princes (\"Narender Mandal\" or \"Narendra Mandal\") was an institution established in 1920 by a Royal Proclamation of the King-Emperor to provide a forum in which the rulers could voice their needs and aspirations to the government. It survived until the end of the British Raj in 1947.\n\nBy the early 1930s, most of the princely states whose Agencies were under the authority of India's provinces were organised into new Agencies, answerable directly to the Governor-general, on the model of the Central India and Rajputana agencies: the Eastern States Agency, Punjab States Agency, Baluchistan Agency, Deccan States Agency, Madras States Agency and the Northwest Frontier States Agency. The Baroda Residency was combined with the princely states of northern Bombay Presidency into the Baroda, Western India and Gujarat States Agency. Gwalior was separated from the Central India Agency and given its own Resident, and the states of Rampur and Benares, formerly with Agents under the authority of the United Provinces, were placed under the Gwalior Residency in 1936. The princely states of Sandur and Banganapalle in Mysore Presidency were transferred to the agency of the Mysore Resident in 1939.\n\nThe native states in 1947 included five large states that were in \"direct political relations\" with the Government of India. For the complete list of princely states in 1947, see List of princely states of India.\n\n\n\n\"See article: Indian State Forces\"\n\nThe armies of the Native States were bound by many restrictions that were imposed by subsidiary alliances. They existed mainly for ceremonial use and for internal policing, although certain units designated as Imperial Service Troops, were available for service alongside the regular Indian Army upon request by the British government.\n\nAccording to the , Since a chief can neither attack his neighbour nor fall out with a foreign nation, it follows that he needs no military establishment which is not required either for police purposes or personal display, or for cooperation with the Imperial Government. The treaty made with Gwalior in 1844, and the instrument of transfer given to Mysore in 1881, alike base the restriction of the forces of the State upon the broad ground of protection. The former explained in detail that unnecessary armies were embarrassing to the State itself and the cause of disquietude to others: a few months later a striking proof of this was afforded by the army of the Sikh kingdom of Lahore. The British Government has undertaken to protect the dominions of the Native princes from invasion and even from rebellion within: its army is organised for the defence not merely of British India, but of all the possessions under the suzerainty of the King-Emperor.\n\nIn addition, other restrictions were imposed:\n\nThe treaties with most of the larger States are clear on this point. Posts in the interior must not be fortified, factories for the production of guns and ammunition must not be constructed, nor may the subject of other States be enlisted in the local forces. ... They must allow the forces that defend them to obtain local supplies, to occupy cantonments or positions, and to arrest deserters; and in addition to these services they must recognise the Imperial control of the railways, telegraphs, and postal communications as essential not only to the common welfare but to the common defence.\n\nThe Imperial Service Troops were routinely inspected by British army officers and generally had the same equipment as soldiers in the Indian Army. Although their numbers were relatively small, the Imperial Service Troops were employed in China and British Somaliland in the first decade of the 20th century, and later saw action in the First World War and Second World War .\n\nAt the time of Indian independence in August 1947, India was divided into two sets of territories, the first being the territories of \"British India,\" which were under the direct control of the India Office in London and the Governor-General of India, and the second being the \"Princely states,\" the territories over which the Crown had suzerainty, but which were under the control of their hereditary rulers. In addition, there were several colonial enclaves controlled by France and Portugal. The integration of these territories into Dominion of India, that had been created by the Indian Independence Act 1947 by the British parliament, was a declared objective of the Indian National Congress, which the Government of India pursued over the years 1947 to 1949. Through a combination of tactics, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and V. P. Menon in the months immediately preceding and following the independence convinced the rulers of almost all of the hundreds of princely states to accede to India. In a speech in January 1948, Vallabhbhai Patel said:\n\nAlthough this process successfully integrated the vast majority of princely states into India, it was not as successful in relation to a few states, notably the former princely state of Kashmir, whose Maharaja delayed signing the instrument of accession into India until his territories were under the threat of invasion by Pakistan, the state of Hyderabad, whose ruler decided to remain independent and was subsequently defeated by the Operation Polo invasion.\n\nHaving secured their accession, Sardar Patel and V. P. Menon then proceeded, in a step-by-step process, to secure and extend the central government's authority over these states and to transform their administrations until, by 1956, there was little difference between the territories that had formerly been part of British India and those that had been princely states. Simultaneously, the Government of India, through a combination of diplomatic and military means, acquired control over the remaining European colonial enclaves, such as Goa, which were also integrated into India.\n\nAs the final step, in 1971, the 26th amendment to the Constitution of India withdrew official recognition of all official symbols of princely India, including titles and privileges, and abolished the remuneration of the princes by privy purses. As a result, even titular heads of the former princely states ceased to exist.\n\nDuring the period of the British Raj, there were four princely states in Balochistan: Makran, Kharan, Las Bela and Kalat. The first three acceded to Pakistan. However, the ruler of the fourth princely state, the Khan of Kalat Ahmad Yar Khan, declared Kalat's independence as this was one of the options given to all princely states. The state remained independent until it was acceded on 27 March 1948. The signing of the Instrument of Accession by Ahmad Yar Khan, led his brother, Prince Abdul Karim, to revolt against his brother's decision in July 1948, causing an ongoing and still unresolved insurgency.\n\nBahawalpur from the Punjab Agency joined Pakistan on 5 October 1947. The Princely states of the North-West Frontier States Agencies. included the Dir Swat and Chitral Agency and the Deputy Commissioner of Hazara acting as the Political Agent for Amb and Phulra. These states joined Pakistan on independence from the British.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15489197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15489197", "title": "Province", "text": "Province\n\nA province is almost always an administrative division within a country or state. The term derives from the ancient Roman \"provincia\", which was the major territorial and administrative unit of the Roman Empire's territorial possessions outside Italy. The term \"province\" has since been adopted by many countries. In some countries with no actual provinces, \"the provinces\" is a metaphorical term meaning \"outside the capital city\".\n\nWhile some provinces were produced artificially by colonial powers, others were formed around local groups with their own ethnic identities. Many have their own powers independent of central or federal authority, especially in Canada. In other countries, like China, provinces are the creation of central government, with very little autonomy.\n\nThe English word \"province\" is attested since about 1330 and derives from the 13th-century Old French \"\"province\", which itself comes from the Latin word \"\"provincia\", which referred to the sphere of authority of a magistrate; in particular, to a foreign territory.\n\nA popular etymology is from Latin\"\"pro-\" (\"on behalf of\") and \"\"vincere\" (\"to triumph\" or \"to take control of\"). Thus a \"province\" would be a territory or function that a Roman magistrate held control of on behalf of his government. In fact, the word Province is an ancient term from public law, which means: \"office belonging to a magistrate\". This agrees with the Latin term's earlier usage as a generic term for a jurisdiction under Roman law.\n\nIt was first used in Iran and In France, the expression \"\"en province\" still tends to mean \"outside the Paris region\". Equivalent expressions are used in Peru (\"\"en provincias\", \"outside the city of Lima\"), Mexico (\"\"la provincia\", \"lands outside Mexico City\"), Romania (\"\"în provincie\", \"outside the Bucharest region\"), Poland (\"\"prowincjonalny\", \"provincial\"), Bulgaria (\"\"в провинцията\", \"\"v provintsiyata\", \"in the provinces\"; \"\"провинциален\", \"\"provintsialen\", \"provincial\") and the Philippines (\"taga-probinsiya\", \"from outside Metro Manila\", \"sa probinsiya\", \"in the provinces\"). Similarly, in Australia \"provincial\" refers to parts of a state outside of the state capital.\n\nBefore the French Revolution, France comprised a variety of jurisdictions (e.g., Île-de-France, built around the early Capetian royal demesne), some being considered \"provinces\", though the term was also used colloquially for territories as small as a manor (\"châtellenie\"). Most commonly referred to as \"provinces\", however, were the \"Grands Gouvernements\", generally former medieval feudal principalities, or agglomerations of such. Today the expression \"\"province\" is sometimes replaced by \"\"en région\", \"\"région\" now being the term officially used for the secondary level of government.\n\nIn Italy, \"\"in provincia\" generally means \"outside the biggest regional capitals\" (like Rome, Milan, Naples, etc.).\nThe historic European provinces—built up of many small regions, called \"\"pays\" by the French and \"cantons\" by the Swiss, each with a local cultural identity and focused upon a market town—have been depicted by Fernand Braudel as the optimum-size political unit in pre-industrial Early Modern Europe. He asks, \"Was the province not its inhabitants' true 'fatherland'?\" Even centrally-organized France, an early nation-state, could collapse into autonomous provincial worlds under pressure, as during the sustained crisis of the French Wars of Religion (1562–98).\nThe British colonies in North America were often named provinces. Most (but not all) of the thirteen colonies that eventually formed the United States were called provinces. All declared themselves \"states\" when they became independent. The Connecticut Colony, the Delaware Colony, Rhode Island and the Colony of Virginia never used the title \"province\". The British colonies further north, which remained loyal to Britain and later confederated to form the original Canada, retained the title of \"province\" and are still known as such to the present day. At the time of confederation, only the United Province of Canada was called a province, although the provinces of Lower Canada and Upper Canada had previously existed. Other colonies only started to use the name \"province\" on becoming constituent provinces of the Canadian confederation.\n\nTo 19th- and 20th-century historians, in Europe, centralized government was a sign of modernity and political maturity. In the late 20th century, as the European Union drew nation-states closer together, centripetal forces seemed simultaneously to move countries toward more flexible systems of more localized, provincial governing entities under the overall European Union umbrella. Spain after Francisco Franco has been a \"State of Autonomies\", formally unitary but in fact functioning as a federation of Autonomous Communities, each exercising different powers. (See Politics of Spain.)\n\nWhile Serbia, the rump of former Yugoslavia, fought the separatists in the province of Kosovo, the United Kingdom, under the political principle of \"devolution\", produced (1998) local parliaments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Strong local nationalisms have surfaced or developed in Britain's Cornwall, France's Brittany, Languedoc and Corsica, Spain's Catalonia and the Basque Country, Italy's Lombardy, Belgium's Flanders; and, east of Europe, in Abkhazia, Chechnya and Kurdistan. In ancient India, unlike the Mauryas, the Gupta Empire gave local areas a great deal of independence and divided the empire into 26 large provinces, styled as Bhukti, Pradesha and Bhoga.\n\nIn many federations and confederations, the province or state is not clearly subordinate to the national or central government. Rather, it is considered to be sovereign in regard to its particular set of constitutional functions. The central- and provincial-government functions, or areas of jurisdiction, are identified in a constitution. Those that are not specifically identified are called \"residual powers.\" In a decentralized federal system (such as the United States and Australia) these residual powers lie at the provincial or state level, whereas in a centralized federal system (such as Canada) they are retained at the federal level.\n\nSome of the enumerated powers can be quite important. For example, Canadian provinces are sovereign in regard to such important matters as property, civil rights, education, social welfare and medical services. The growth of the modern welfare state has resulted in these functions, assigned to the provinces, becoming more important compared to those assigned to the federal government and thus provincial governments have become more important than the Fathers of Confederation originally intended.\n\nCanada's status as a federation of provinces under the Dominion of the British Empire rather than an independent country also had certain legal implications. Provinces could appeal court rulings over the heads of the Supreme Court of Canada to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in London. As well, provinces could bypass the Supreme Court and go directly to London from any Provincial Court. The Canadian Supreme Court tended to support the view that the Canadian Constitution was intended to create a powerful central government, but the Privy Council in London held a distinctly opposite view that the Constitution provided for stronger provincial powers. This provided an opportunity for forum shopping for provinces who opposed federal laws. Until appeals from Canada to the Privy Council were abolished in 1949, in legal disputes the provincial governments tended to win powers at the expense of the federal government.\n\nIn addition, while the Canadian federal government has unlimited taxing power while province governments are restricted to imposing direct taxes, the Canadian government introduced an income tax during World War I, and since it is a direct tax it also became a major revenue generator for provinces. In most provinces, the federal government now collects income tax for both levels of government and transfers to the provincial governments whatever surcharge they ask for. The sales tax also become a major revenue generator for provinces, so in 1991 the Canadian government introduced a Goods and Services Tax (GST) to share the revenues, which proved unpopular both with provincial governments and taxpayers. The Canadian government has tried to harmonize the two levels of sales taxes, but three provinces continue to impose a separate sales tax (British Columbia after harmonizing it, and shortly thereafter de-harmonizing it after it was struck down by a referendum), while the province of Alberta still does not impose a provincial sales tax.\n\nThe evolution of federations has created an inevitable tug-of-war between concepts of federal supremacy versus states' & provinces' rights. The historic division of responsibility in federal constitutions is inevitably subject to multiple overlaps. For example, when central governments, responsible for foreign policy, enter into international agreements in areas where the state or province is sovereign, such as the environment or health standards, agreements made at the national level can create jurisdictional overlap and conflicting laws. This overlap creates the potential for internal disputes that lead to constitutional amendments and judicial decisions that alter the balance of powers.\n\nThough foreign affairs do not usually fall under a province’s or a federal state’s competency, some states allow them to legally conduct international relations on their own in matters of their constitutional prerogative and essential interest. Sub-national authorities have a growing interest in paradiplomacy, be it performed under a legal framework or as a trend informally admitted as legitimate by the central authorities.\n\nIn unitary states such as France and China, provinces are subordinate to the national, central government. In theory, the central government can create or abolish provinces within its jurisdiction. On the other hand, although Canada is now considered a federal state and not a confederation, in practice it is among the world's more decentralized federations. Canadian Confederation and the Constitution Act, 1867 conferred considerable power on the provincial governments which they often use to pursue their own goals independently of the federal government.\n\nIn Canada, local governments have been called \"creatures of the province\" because the authority of a local government derives solely from the provincial government. Provinces can create, merge, and dissolve local governments without the consent of the federal government or the people in the affected locality. Alberta in particular dissolved and merged hundreds of local governments during the 1940s and 1950s as a consequence of the Great Depression. Other provinces have arbitrarily merged and annexed independent suburbs to major Canadian cities such as Toronto or Montreal without the approval of local voters.\n\nNot all first-level political entities are termed \"provinces.\" In Arab countries, the first administrative level of government—called a \"muhafazah\"—is usually translated as a \"governorate.\" In Poland, the equivalent of \"province\" is \"\"województwo\",\" sometimes rendered in English as \"voivodeship.\"\n\nHistorically, New Zealand was divided into provinces, each with its own Superintendent and Provincial Council, and with considerable responsibilities conferred on them. However, the colony (as it then was) never developed into a federation; instead, the provinces were abolished in 1876. The old provincial boundaries continue to be used to determine the application of certain public holidays. Over the years, when the central Government has created special-purpose agencies at a sub-national level, these have often tended to follow or approximate the old provincial boundaries. Current examples include the 16 Regions into which New Zealand is divided, and also the 21 District Health Boards. Sometimes the term \"the provinces\" is used to refer collectively to rural and regional parts of New Zealand, that is, those parts of the country lying outside some or all of the \"main centres\"—Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Hamilton and Dunedin.\n\nIn many countries, a province is a relatively small non-constituent level of sub-national government, such as a county in the United Kingdom. In China, a province is a sub-national region within a unitary state; this means that a province can be created or abolished by the central government.\n\nIn some nations, a province (or its equivalent) is a first-level administrative unit of sub-national government—as in the Netherlands—and a large constituent autonomous area, as in Argentina, Canada, South Africa, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It can also be a constituent element of a federation, confederation, or republic. For example, in the United States, no state may secede from the federal Union without the permission of the federal government.\n\nIn other nations—such as Belgium, Chile, Italy, Peru, the Philippines, and Spain—a province is a second-level administrative sub-division of a region (which is the first-order administrative sub-division of the nation). Italian provinces are mainly named after their principal town and comprise several administrative sub-divisions called \"comuni\" (communes). In Chile, they are referred to as \"comunas\". Chile has 15 regions, subdivided into 53 provinces, of which each is run by a governor appointed by the president. Italy has 20 regions, subdivided into 14 metropolitan cities and 96 provinces. Peru has 25 regions, subdivided into 194 provinces. Spain has 17 autonomous communities and 2 autonomous cities, subdivided into 50 provinces.\n\nThe island of Ireland is divided into four historic provinces (see Provinces of Ireland), each of which is sub-divided into counties. These provinces are Connacht (in the west), Leinster (in the east), Munster (in the south) and, Ulster (in the north). Nowadays these provinces have little or no administrative function, though they do have sporting significance.\n\nFrom the 19th century, the Portuguese colonies were considered overseas provinces of Portugal.\n\nSimilarly, some overseas parts of the British Empire bore the colonial title of \"province\" (in a more Roman sense), such as the Province of Canada and the Province of South Australia (the latter, to distinguish it from the penal \"colonies\" elsewhere in Australia). Likewise, prior to the American Revolution, most of the original Thirteen Colonies in British America were provinces as well, such as the Province of Georgia and the Province of New Hampshire.\n\nThe constituent entities of Canada are known as provinces. At the time of confederation, only the United Province of Canada, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia were called provinces, although the provinces of Lower Canada and Upper Canada had previously existed. Other colonies and territories only started to use the title \"province\" on becoming constituent entities of the Canadian confederation.\n\nBecause Canada is the second-largest country in the world by area, most Canadian provinces are very large—six of its ten provinces are larger than any country in Europe except Russia, and its largest province Quebec——is almost two and a half times as large as France—. Five of the older Canadian provinces—Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island—have \"counties\" as administrative sub-divisions. The actual local government form can vary widely. Since the Canadian Constitution assigns local government to provincial jurisdiction, the various provinces can create, dissolve, and reorganize local governments freely and they have been described as \"creatures of the province\". The Western provinces have more varied types of administrative sub-divisions than the Eastern provinces and invent new types at will. The province of British Columbia has \"regional districts\" which function as equivalents of counties. Manitoba and Saskatchewan have \"urban municipalities\", rural municipalities, and \"special municipalities\" or \"northern municipalities\". Most of Alberta's rural municipalities brand themselves \"counties\", although in Alberta the word has no legal significance and does not describe the government type.\n\nThe province of Alberta has some unusually creative solutions formed in response to local conditions. For instance, Sherwood Park is an unincorporated \"urban service area\" of 65,465 within Strathcona County, which has most of the oil refining capacity in Western Canada; Fort McMurray was once a city but dissolved itself and became an \"urban service area\" of 70,964 people within the Regional Municipality (R.M.) of Wood Buffalo, which has several multibillion-dollar oil sands plants; and Lloydminster, a city of 31,483 which sits directly astride the provincial border between Alberta and Saskatchewan. Unlike most such cases, Lloydminster is not a pair of twin cities on opposite sides of a border, but is actually incorporated by both provinces as a single city with a single municipal administration. The residents objected to the federal government splitting the city in two when it created the two provinces, so the two provinces reunified it by declaring it to be a single city in two provinces, thereby bypassing the limitations of federal boundaries.\n\nThe term \"province\" is sometimes used to refer to the historic governorates (\"guberniyas\") of Russia. This terms also refers to the \"provinces\" (), which were introduced as the subdivisions of the governorates in 1719 and existed until 1775. In modern parlance, the term is commonly used to refer to the oblasts and krais of Russia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37006677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37006677", "title": "QRA locator", "text": "QRA locator\n\nThe QRA locator, also called QTH locator in some publications, is an obsolete geographic coordinate system used by amateur radio operators in Europe before the introduction of the Maidenhead Locator System. As a radio transmitter or receiver location system the QRA locator is considered defunct, but may be found in many older documents.\n\nThe QRA locator system in the 4-character format was introduced at a meeting of the VHF Working Group in The Hague in October 1959. The QRA locator was further developed with the addition of the fifth character at the Region 1 Conference in Malmö (1963).\n\nThe QRA locator was officially adopted by IARU Region 1 in 1966 and was renamed \"QTH-locator\" a year later.\n\nQRA locator references consist of a string of two capital letters, two numerical digits and one lower case letter, e.g. FG32c.\n\n\n\nWith this system, a location at 52° 26' 12\" N - 0° 13' 6\"E would have a QRA locator reference AM52g.\n\nThe QRA locator system has two disadvantages, which led to its replacement by the current Maidenhead system:\n\n\n\nEuropean QRA locator map\n"}
{"id": "31089766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31089766", "title": "Revista de la Asociación Geológica Argentina", "text": "Revista de la Asociación Geológica Argentina\n\nThe Revista de la Asociación Geológica Argentina is a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by the Asociación Geológica Argentina.\n"}
{"id": "32232262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32232262", "title": "Survey of Pakistan", "text": "Survey of Pakistan\n\nSurvey of Pakistan is the sole national mapping and land surveying government agency of Pakistan. Its head of department is titles as \"Surveyor General of Pakistan\".\n\nSurvey of Pakistan, which emerged as successor to pre-partition Royal Survey of India, is a National Surveying and Mapping Organization of the country. It is primarily responsible for all sorts of topographical land surveys of cis-frontier areas of the entire country. The basic products include map sheets on scale 1:50,000 and 1:250,000. The department is actively participating in the national development projects and thus fulfilling the ever growing surveying and mapping demands of various government / semi-government and autonomous bodies. The geodetic data prepared and maintained by the department is matchless in its accuracy and use. Over the past years, the department has taken a mile stone turn by gradually switching over to surveying and mapping using modern techniques, methods and equipment. This resulted in the outstanding capability of using and manipulating topographical data to develop wide range of applications including Geographic Information System.\n\nTo delineate and demarcate International Borders, carry out topographic survey, prepare national geographical data base and publish maps of Pakistan\nTo survey, print and publish topographical maps of cis-frontier terrain of Pakistan on scale 1:50,000 and derived maps on scales 1:250,000 and 1:1,000,000 for general public use and the defence forces of Pakistan. To establish and maintain geodetic network in the entire country. To delineate and demarcate international borders of Pakistan. To carry out cantonment surveys and others surveys on any desired scale which government / semi government/ autonomous bodies may demand. In addition to above maps preparation of other derived products like Provincial, District, Tehsil maps, Guide maps, Street Maps. A ~ Z Maps and Atlases of desired information for national development projects and general public.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12797316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12797316", "title": "Telephone numbers in East Timor", "text": "Telephone numbers in East Timor\n\nUntil September 1999, East Timor formed part of the Indonesian numbering plan, using the country code +62, followed by area codes for the two largest cities, Dili (390) and Baucau (399). Following the violence in the wake of Indonesia's departure from the territory, most of the telecommunications infrastructure was destroyed, and Telkom Indonesia withdrew its services from East Timor. \n\nA new country code, +670, was allocated to East Timor, but international access often remains severely limited. A complicating factor is that 670 was previously used by the Northern Marianas, with many carriers not aware that the code is now used by East Timor. (The Northern Marianas, now part of the North American Numbering Plan, use the code 1 and the area code 670.)\n\nEast Timor now has a closed numbering plan; all fixed line subscribers' numbers are seven digits, while mobile phone subscribers' numbers are now eight digits, with a '7' being added to the old seven-digit number.\n\nTelephone numbering in East Timor is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58372899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58372899", "title": "Veronica Della Dora", "text": "Veronica Della Dora\n\nVeronica Della Dora (born 1976) is Professor of Human Geography and Director of the Social, Cultural & Historical Geography Group at Royal Holloway, University of London.\n\nShe comes from Venice and grew up living on the Lido.. She gained a PhD from University of California, Los Angeles in 2005; her thesis title was \"Geographies of the holy mountain : post-Byzantine and western representations of the Monastic Republic of Mount Athos\". \n\nHer book \"Landscape, Nature and the Sacred in Byzantium\" was nominated for the 2017 Runciman Award.\n\nIn 2018 she was elected a Fellow of the British Academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "192485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192485", "title": "Victoria Falls", "text": "Victoria Falls\n\nVictoria Falls (Lozi: \"Mosi-oa-Tunya\", \"The Smoke that Thunders\") is a waterfall in southern Africa on the Zambezi River at the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe.\n\nDavid Livingstone, the Scottish missionary and explorer, is believed to have been the first European to view Victoria Falls on 16 November 1855, from what is now known as Livingstone Island, one of two land masses in the middle of the river, immediately upstream from the falls near the Zambian shore. Livingstone named his discovery in honour of Queen Victoria of Britain, but the indigenous Lozi language name, \"Mosi-oa-Tunya\"—\"The Smoke That Thunders\"—continues in common usage as well. The World Heritage List officially recognizes both names. Livingstone also cites an older name, \"Seongo\" or \"Chongwe\", which means \"The Place of the Rainbow\" as a result of the constant spray.\n\nThe nearby national park in Zambia is named \"Mosi-oa-Tunya\", whereas the national park and town on the Zimbabwean shore are both named Victoria Falls.\n\nWhile it is neither the highest nor the widest waterfall in the world, Victoria Falls is classified as the largest, based on its combined width of and height of , resulting in the world's largest sheet of falling water. Victoria Falls is roughly twice the height of North America's Niagara Falls and well over twice the width of its Horseshoe Falls. In height and width Victoria Falls is rivalled only by Argentina and Brazil's Iguazu Falls. See table for comparisons.\n\nFor a considerable distance upstream from the falls, the Zambezi flows over a level sheet of basalt, in a shallow valley, bounded by low and distant sandstone hills. The river's course is dotted with numerous tree-covered islands, which increase in number as the river approaches the falls. There are no mountains, escarpments, or deep valleys; only a flat plateau extending hundreds of kilometres in all directions.\n\nThe falls are formed as the full width of the river plummets in a single vertical drop into a transverse chasm wide, carved by its waters along a fracture zone in the basalt plateau. The depth of the chasm, called the First Gorge, varies from at its western end to in the centre. The only outlet to the First Gorge is a wide gap about two-thirds of the way across the width of the falls from the western end. The whole volume of the river pours into the Victoria Falls gorges from this narrow cleft.\n\nThere are two islands on the crest of the falls that are large enough to divide the curtain of water even at full flood: Boaruka Island (or Cataract Island) near the western bank, and Livingstone Island near the middle—the point from which Livingstone first viewed the falls. At less than full flood, additional islets divide the curtain of water into separate parallel streams. The main streams are named, in order from Zimbabwe (west) to Zambia (east): \"Devil's Cataract\" (called \"Leaping Water\" by some), \"Main Falls\", \"Rainbow Falls\" (the highest) and the \"Eastern Cataract\".\n\nThe Zambezi river, upstream from the falls, experiences a rainy season from late November to early April, and a dry season the rest of the year. The river's annual flood season is February to May with a peak in April, The spray from the falls typically rises to a height of over , and sometimes even twice as high, and is visible from up to away. At full moon, a \"moonbow\" can be seen in the spray instead of the usual daylight rainbow. During the flood season, however, it is impossible to see the foot of the falls and most of its face, and the walks along the cliff opposite it are in a constant shower and shrouded in mist. Close to the edge of the cliff, spray shoots upward like inverted rain, especially at Zambia's Knife-Edge Bridge.\n\nAs the dry season takes effect, the islets on the crest become wider and more numerous, and in September to January up to half of the rocky face of the falls may become dry and the bottom of the First Gorge can be seen along most of its length. At this time it becomes possible (though not necessarily safe) to walk across some stretches of the river at the crest. It is also possible to walk to the bottom of the First Gorge at the Zimbabwean side. The minimum flow, which occurs in November, is around a tenth of the April figure; this variation in flow is greater than that of other major falls, and causes Victoria Falls' annual average flow rate to be lower than might be expected based on the maximum flow.\n\nThe entire volume of the Zambezi River pours through the First Gorge's wide exit for a distance of about , then enters a zigzagging series of gorges designated by the order in which the river reaches them. Water entering the \"Second Gorge\" makes a sharp right turn and has carved out a deep pool there called the \"Boiling Pot\". Reached via a steep footpath from the Zambian side, it is about 150 metres (500 ft) across. Its surface is smooth at low water, but at high water is marked by enormous, slow swirls and heavy boiling turbulence. Objects and humans that are swept over the falls, including the occasional hippopotamus or crocodile, are frequently found swirling about here or washed up at the north-east end of the Second Gorge. This is where the bodies of Mrs Moss and Mr Orchard, mutilated by crocodiles, were found in 1910 after two canoes were capsized by a hippo at Long Island above the falls.\n\nThe principal gorges are \n\nThe Upper Zambezi River originally drained south through present day Botswana to join the Limpopo River. A general uplift of the land between Zimbabwe and The Kalahari desert about 2 million years ago blocked this drainage route, and a large paleo lake known as Lake Makgadikgadi formed between the Kalahari and the Batoka Basaltic Plateau of Zimbabwe and Zambia. This lake was originally endorheic and had no natural outlet, Under wetter climate conditions about 20,000 years BP, it eventually overflowed and began to drain to the east cutting the Batoka Gorge through the basalt as it went.\n\nThe recent geological history of Victoria Falls can be seen in the overall form of the Batoka Gorge, with its six individual gorges and eight past positions of the falls. The east-west oriented gorges imply structural control with alignment along joints of shatter zones, or faults with of vertical displacement as is the case of the second and fifth gorges. Headward erosion along these structural lines of weakness would establish a new fall line and abandonment of the earlier line. North-south oriented joints control the south flowing sections of the river. One of these is the \"Boiling Pot\", which links the First Gorge with the Second Gorge.\n\nThe falls may have already started cutting back the next major gorge, at the dip in one side of the \"Devil's Cataract\", between the western river bank and Cataract Island. The lip in the current falls is lowest here and carries the greatest concentration of water at flood stage.\nThe sedimentary sequence overlying the basalt at the Zambezi River margins is called the Victoria Falls Formation, which consists of gravel, the Pipe sandstone, Kalahari Sands, and aeolian sand and alluvium. A 15-45 m scarp bounds the river about 5-6 km from the main channel, and a series of river terraces are evident between the scarp and the channel.\n\nFurther geological history of the course of the Zambezi River is in the article of that name.\n\nArchaeological sites around the falls have yielded Early Stone Age Acheulean stone artifacts and Oldowan tools, plus Sangoan tools and Lupemban artifacts of Middle Stone Age. Iron-using Khoisan hunter-gatherers displaced these Stone Age people and in turn were displaced by Bantu tribes such as the southern Tonga people known as the Batoka/Tokalea, who called the falls \"Shungu na mutitima\". The Matabele, later arrivals, named them \"aManz' aThunqayo\", and the Batswana and Makololo (whose language is used by the Lozi people) call them \"Mosi-o-Tunya\". All these names mean essentially \"the smoke that thunders\".\n\nA map from c. 1750 drawn by Jacques Nicolas Bellin for Abbé Antoine François Prevost d'Exiles marks the falls as \"cataractes\" and notes a settlement to the north of the Zambezi as being friendly with the Portuguese at the time. Earlier still Nicolas de Fer's 1715 map of southern Africa has the fall clearly marked in the correct position. It also has dotted lines denoting trade routes that David Livingstone followed 140 years later.\n\nThe first European to see the falls was David Livingstone on 17 November 1855, during his 1852–56 journey from the upper Zambezi to the mouth of the river. The falls were well known to local tribes, and Voortrekker hunters may have known of them, as may the Arabs under a name equivalent to \"the end of the world\". Europeans were sceptical of their reports, perhaps thinking that the lack of mountains and valleys on the plateau made a large falls unlikely.\n\nLivingstone had been told about the falls before he reached them from upriver and was paddled across to a small island that now bears the name Livingstone Island in Zambia. Livingstone had previously been impressed by the Ngonye Falls further upstream, but found the new falls much more impressive, and gave them their English name in honour of Queen Victoria. He wrote of the falls, \"No one can imagine the beauty of the view from anything witnessed in England. It had never been seen before by European eyes; but scenes so lovely must have been gazed upon by angels in their flight.\"\n\nIn 1860, Livingstone returned to the area and made a detailed study of the falls with John Kirk. Other early European visitors included Portuguese explorer Serpa Pinto, Czech explorer Emil Holub, who made the first detailed plan of the falls and its surroundings in 1875 (published in 1880), and British artist Thomas Baines, who executed some of the earliest paintings of the falls. Until the area was opened up by the building of the railway in 1905, though, the falls were seldom visited by other Europeans. Some writers believe that the Portuguese priest Gonçalo da Silveira was the first European to catch sight of the falls back in the sixteenth century.\n\nEuropean settlement of the Victoria Falls area started around 1900 in response to the desire of Cecil Rhodes' British South Africa Company for mineral rights and imperial rule north of the Zambezi, and the exploitation of other natural resources such as timber forests north-east of the falls, and ivory and animal skins. Before 1905, the river was crossed above the falls at the Old Drift, by dugout canoe or a barge towed across with a steel cable. Rhodes' vision of a Cape-Cairo railway drove plans for the first bridge across the Zambezi and he insisted it be built where the spray from the falls would fall on passing trains, so the site at the Second Gorge was chosen. See the main article Victoria Falls Bridge for details. From 1905 the railway offered accessible travel from as far as the Cape in the south and from 1909, as far as the Belgian Congo in the north. In 1904 the Victoria Falls Hotel was opened to accommodate visitors arriving on the new railway. The falls became an increasingly popular attraction during British colonial rule of Northern Rhodesia (Zambia) and Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), with the town of Victoria Falls becoming the main tourist centre.\n\nIn 1964, Northern Rhodesia became the independent state of Zambia. The following year, Rhodesia unilaterally declared independence. This was not recognized by Zambia, the United Kingdom nor the vast majority of states and led to United Nations-mandated sanctions. In response to the emerging crisis, in 1966 Zambia restricted or stopped border crossings; it did not re-open the border completely until 1980. Guerilla warfare arose on the southern side of the Zambezi from 1972: the Rhodesian Bush War. Visitor numbers began to drop, particularly on the Rhodesian side. The war affected Zambia through military incursions, causing the latter to impose security measures including the stationing of soldiers to restrict access to the gorges and some parts of the falls.\n\nZimbabwe's internationally recognised independence in 1980 brought comparative peace, and the 1980s witnessed renewed levels of tourism and the development of the region as a centre for adventure sports. Activities that gained popularity in the area include whitewater rafting in the gorges, bungee jumping from the bridge, game fishing, horse riding, kayaking, and flights over the falls.\n\nBy the end of the 1990s almost 400,000 people were visiting the falls annually, and this was expected to rise to over a million in the next decade. Unlike the game parks, Victoria Falls has more Zimbabwean and Zambian visitors than international tourists; the attraction is accessible by bus and train, and is therefore comparatively inexpensive to reach.\n\nBoth countries permit tourists to make day trips across the border to view the falls from both viewpoints. Visitors with single-entry visas are required to purchase a visa each time they cross the border; visas can be obtained at both border posts. Costs vary from US$50–$80 (). Visa regulations change frequently; visitors are advised to check the rules currently in effect in both countries before crossing the border in either direction. Additionally, foreign tourists may purchase a KAZA visa for US$50 that will permit visitors to travel between Zambia and Zimbabwe for up to 30 days as long as they remain within the covered countries.\n\nA famous feature is the naturally formed \"Armchair\" (now sometimes called \"Devil's Pool\"), near the edge of the falls on Livingstone Island on the Zambian side. When the river flow is at a certain level, usually between September and December, a rock barrier forms an eddy with minimal current, allowing adventurous swimmers to splash around in relative safety a few feet from the point where the water cascades over the falls. Occasional deaths have been reported when people have slipped over the rock barrier.\n\nThe numbers of visitors to the Zimbabwean side of the falls has historically been much higher than the number visiting the Zambia side, due to the greater development of the visitor facilities there. However, the number of tourists visiting Zimbabwe began to decline in the early 2000s as political tensions between supporters and opponents of president Robert Mugabe increased. In 2006, hotel occupancy on the Zimbabwean side hovered at around 30%, while the Zambian side was at near-capacity, with rates in top hotels reaching US$630 per night. The rapid development has prompted the United Nations to consider revoking the Falls' status as a World Heritage Site. In addition, problems of waste disposal and a lack of effective management of the falls' environment are a concern.\n\nThe two national parks at the falls are relatively small – Mosi-oa-Tunya National Park is and Victoria Falls National Park is . However, next to the latter on the southern bank is the Zambezi National Park, extending west along the river. Animals can move between the two Zimbabwean parks and can also reach Matetsi Safari Area, Kazuma Pan National Park and Hwange National Park to the south.\n\nOn the Zambian side, fences and the outskirts of Livingstone tend to confine most animals to the Mosi-oa-Tunya National Park. In addition fences put up by lodges in response to crime restrict animal movement.\n\nIn 2004 a separate group of police called the Tourism Police was started. They are commonly seen around the main tourist areas, and can be identified by their uniforms with yellow reflective bibs.\n\nMopane woodland savannah predominates in the area, with smaller areas of miombo and Rhodesian teak woodland and scrubland savannah. Riverine forest with palm trees lines the banks and islands above the falls. The most notable aspect of the area's vegetation though is the rainforest nurtured by the spray from the falls, containing plants rare for the area such as pod mahogany, ebony, ivory palm, wild date palm, batoko plum and a number of creepers and lianas. Vegetation has suffered in recent droughts, and so have the animals that depend on it, particularly antelope.\n\nThe national parks contain abundant wildlife including sizable populations of elephant, Cape buffalo, giraffe, Grant's zebra, and a variety of antelope. lions, African leopards and South African cheetahs are only occasionally seen. Vervet monkeys and baboons are common. The river above the falls contains large populations of hippopotamus and crocodile. African bush elephants cross the river in the dry season at particular crossing points.\n\nKlipspringers, honey badgers, lizards and clawless otters can be glimpsed in the gorges, but they are mainly known for 35 species of raptors. The Taita falcon, black eagle, peregrine falcon and augur buzzard breed there. Above the falls, herons, fish eagles and numerous kinds of waterfowl are common.\n\nThe river is home to 39 species of fish below the falls and 84 species above it. This illustrates the effectiveness of the falls as a dividing barrier between the upper and lower Zambezi.\n\n\n"}
