{"id": "38648326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38648326", "title": "1905 in philosophy", "text": "1905 in philosophy\n\n1905 in philosophy\n\n"}
{"id": "10358502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10358502", "title": "A. G. L. Shaw", "text": "A. G. L. Shaw\n\nAlan George Lewers Shaw AO, FAHA, FASSA, FRAHS, FRHSV (3 February 1916 – 5 April 2012) was an Australian historian and author of several text books and historiographies on Australian and Victorian history. He taught at the University of Melbourne and the University of Sydney, and was Professor of History at Monash University from 1964 until his retirement in 1981.\n\nShaw was born in Melbourne on 3 February 1916 to George Shaw, a solicitor, and his wife Ethel née Lewers. Shaw was educated at Melbourne Grammar School where he was on the debating team, played violin in the orchestra and was awarded the Frank Grey Smith Scholarship for Classics or Modern Languages. He entered Trinity College at the University of Melbourne in 1935, where he was President of the Dialectic Society in 1938. After graduating BA with first class honours in History and Political Science, Shaw tutored at Trinity College before leaving for further study at Christ Church, Oxford, graduating BA (later MA) with a First in the Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) program in 1940. While there, he was a member of the Oxford Union Society and the Oxford University Music Society.\n\nShaw returned to Australia in 1940, working for the Federal Departments of Information, Army and Post-War Reconstruction. From 1941, alongside these government positions, Shaw returned to Melbourne University as part-time Lecturer in Economic History and Tutor at Trinity College. During 1944 Shaw was appointed as joint Acting Dean of Trinity College, and as Dean in 1947. Shaw was Captain of the squash team, and Vice-President of the Dialectic Society at Trinity from 1941 to 1950. In 1946, Shaw became Lecturer in Modern History. He was associate editor of the journal \"Historical Studies\" (now \"Australian Historical Studies\") from 1949 to 1951, and was a member of its editorial board. In 1950 he was awarded a Nuffield Dominion Travelling Fellowship and spent a year undertaking research in England into Australia's convict period.\n\nOn his return to Australia in 1952, Shaw became Senior Lecturer in History at the University of Sydney, and from 1953 to 1956 was Sub-Warden at St Paul's College. He was the inaugural President of the History Teachers’ Association of New South Wales from 1960 to 1964, and was co-editor of its journal, \"Teaching History\". While in Sydney, he served on the Council of the Royal Australian Historical Society, and was editor of their journal. \n\nIn the early 1960s he was called upon to adjudicate on the long-running Australian TV quiz show \"Pick A Box\" when contestant Barry Jones disputed the answer given to the question \"Who was the first British Governor-General of India?\"\n\nShaw returned to an academic position in Melbourne in 1964 as Professor of Modern History at Monash University, only three years after teaching commenced there. He held this post until his retirement in 1981, at which time he was granted the status of Emeritus Professor. He served as a member of the Monash University Council from 1977 to 1979 and again from 1989 to 1991. He was general editor of the three-volume official history of Victoria published for the state's sesquicentenary in 1984. For the Australian Academy of the Humanities and the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia he edited a series of lectures in celebration of the sesquicentenary, published as \"Victoria's Heritage\" (1986).\n\nA review of his \"History of the Port Phillip District\" (1996) thought it a \"meticulously researched and carefully crafted work which Shaw's earlier writings have led us to expect.\" The reviewer in \"Australian Historical Studies\" noted that Shaw handed his sources \"judiciously, scrupulously and respectfully,\" and that \"in another ninety-four years, men and women will still be turning to Shaw's work with faith and confidence\".\n\nIn 1987 he was elected President of the Royal Historical Society of Victoria, and also served as a member of their Finance, Fellowship, Speakers and Editorial committees. Upon his resignation in 1991, the Society thanked him for the \"benefit of his wise counsel, erudition, discernment and gentle humour,\"\n\nShaw helped found the Friends of the La Trobe Library, now incorporated as the State Library Foundation, and was President of the C.J. La Trobe Society from 2002 to 2003. The State Library of Victoria recognised his contributions in the naming of its annual \"AGL Shaw Summer Research Scholarships\". The RHSV and the La Trobe Society also conduct a joint annual A.G.L. Shaw lecture in his honour.\n\nHe was a benefactor to Melbourne Opera, and, due to his long association through art connections of his wife, Peggy Perrins Shaw (1917–2009), a major supporter and benefactor of the National Gallery of Victoria, creating the Shaw Research Library, now home to over 50,000 volumes. In his retirement, he did not give up teaching altogether, presenting lectures for the University of the Third Age (U3A) for many years.\n\nHe was elected as both a Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities (FAHA) and of the Academy of Social Sciences of Australia (FASSA) in 1967, a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society of Victoria (FRHSV) in 1973, a Fellow of the Royal Australian Historical Society in 1979, and as the first Fellow of the Federation of Australian Historical Societies in 1998. In 2002, having sat on the editorial board from its formation in 1960 until 1999, as well as being Section Editor for the first two volumes and contributing ten articles, he was awarded the inaugural Medal of the \"Australian Dictionary of Biography\".\n\nIn the 1982 Queen's Birthday Honours, Shaw was made an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) for services to education. He was bestowed with an Honorary Doctor of Letters (HonLittD) from the University of Newcastle in 1984. \n\nAt Trinity College, he was elected an Honorary Fellow in 1983 and elevated to Senior Fellow in 2011. In 1962 the distinguished artist John Olsen completed an oil portrait of Shaw, which, since 2007 when Shaw donated it to Trinity College, has been part of the College's art collection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15500638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15500638", "title": "Abu'l-Fath", "text": "Abu'l-Fath\n\nAbu'l-Fath, or Ibn Abi al-Hasan al-Samiri al-Danafi, was a fourteenth-century Samaritan chronicler, writing in Arabic. His major work is \"Kitab al-Ta'rikh\".\n\nThe work was commissioned in 1352 by Pinḥas, Samaritan high priest, and begun in 1356. It is a compilation of Samaritan history from cited earlier sources, running from Adam to Mohammed. \n\nIt was edited by Eduard Vilmar as \"Abulfathi annales Samaritani\" (Gotha, 1865).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47977958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47977958", "title": "Antiquization", "text": "Antiquization\n\nAntiquization (Macedonian: антиквизација), sometimes also ancient Macedonism (Macedonian: антички македонизам), is a term used mainly to critically describe the identity policies conducted by the nationalist VMRO-DPMNE-led governments of the Republic of Macedonia in the period between 2006 and 2017. In the contemporary Macedonian discourse, antiquization refers to the identitarian policies based on the assumption that there is a direct link between today's ethnic Macedonians and Ancient Macedonians. The recent politics of history therefore not only embrace the recollection of the alleged ancient heritage of the Ancient Macedonians, i.e. the heritage of Philip II and his son Alexander the Great, but also seek to depict a coherent continuity of history from the ancient Kingdom of Macedon until the modern Republic of Macedonia in order to reveal the uniqueness of the modern Macedonians and their country. This continuous and supposedly linear historiography includes the assertion that the modern ethnic Macedonians are direct descendants of the Ancient Macedonians. The expression “antiquization” originates from the history of arts and describes \"the Renaissance practice of giving a city the appearance of ancient Rome or Athens through the introduction of structures organized in the classical mode\". While critics use the term \"antiquization\" in order to reveal \"a state-framed set of actions such as direct interventions in the public space and in the public sphere of society in general\", proponents of the government's politics regard the term \"antiquization\" as an invention and neologism that is used as a part of anti-Macedonian propaganda.\n\nThe narrative promoted by VMRO-DPMNE goes back to the ancient Kingdom of Macedon, continues with personalities from early Christianity, distinguished historical figures who were born in or ruled in or around Skopje and also embraces a group of freedom fighters who struggled for Macedonian independence.\n\nIn ancient times Philip II of Macedon was the first who united the Greek city-states and created the basis for the great empire which, later on, was expanded by his son, Alexander III of Macedon, also known as Alexander the Great. Alexander's empire is regarded as being important for the spread of Hellenistic culture, arts and sciences in considerable parts of Europe, Asia and northern Africa. Modern scholarly discourse has produced several hypotheses about the Macedonians' place within the Greek world, about whether the Ancient Macedonians were Greeks and whether the Ancient Macedonian language was a form of the Greek language or related to it. In parts of the available ancient literature they are described as a Greek tribe, in others the Ancient Macedonians were regarded as barbarians by the Athenians, and who were gradually Hellenized. However, there is no doubt about Philip II being the one who united most of the Greek states and Alexander the Great being a world-famous conqueror, perceived as a hero of this ancient period.\n\nIn the narrative brought forward by the VMRO-DPMNE, Alexander the Great was clearly not a Greek. According to this version of history, most of the cultural achievements which are perceived as being from Greek origin by historians and laypersons around the world are actually ethnic Macedonian achievements. Therefore, in the view of some, Hellenism’s true name would actually be Macedonianism. The Republic of Macedonia would thus be the owner of great cultural heritage, which always had been denied by the world. And as the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia Nikola Gruevski put it, it can finally present its true history that has been silenced for so long. Macedonia, in this view is seen as the cradle of European civilization.\n\nIn the modern Macedonian narrative, it is no contradiction that modern Macedonians speak the Macedonian language, a southern Slavic language. It is a considerable consensus in historical sciences that Slavic people immigrated into the Balkans and the region of Macedonia around the 6th century. From a modern Macedonian perspective, the Slavic people assimilated to the autochthonous population, who were direct descendants of the Ancient Macedonians, and intermingled with other local groups. For some reason Slavic languages remained dominant, but according to this historical narrative this cannot be understood as a clue for modern Macedonians being of Slavic descent. Rather, they are descendants from several local groups, one of which were the Ancient Macedonians.\n\nSimilar conflicts or diverging perspectives on the true course of history emerged around heroic Slavic-speaking figures from the geographic region Macedonia who fought against the rule of the Ottoman Empire, like Dame Gruev and Gotse Delchev. But did these people fight for freedom and an independent Macedonian state? Or did they fight for independence from the Ottoman Empire in order to include this area into a Greater Bulgaria? Similarly to Greece, Bulgaria and other Balkan states see Macedonia presenting supposedly Macedonian heroes, which they actually claim to be Bulgarian or respectively Greek. In the modern Macedonian narrative, these people evidently fought for an independent Macedonian state with a Macedonian nation and identity that is clearly distinctive to the Slavic Bulgarian identity. In this narrative there is little to no space for the impact of more than five hundred years of Ottoman rule in the region. And also the time under the rule of Yugoslavia is almost left out in VMRO-DPMNE's modern narrative. In the Yugoslav era, the focus was on southern Slavic brotherhood and socialism, which would obscure the supposed non-Slavic background of the Macedonian nation.\n\nStrongly promoted by VMRO-DPMNE politicians, the recollection of Macedonia's heroic past is supported by (pseudo-) scientists, media and civil society efforts. Some historians emphasize the before-mentioned historical continuity; archaeologists and linguists present evidence for the resemblance of the language of the ancient Macedonians and the modern Macedonian – a south Slavic language; genealogists offer the alleged scientific proof of the similarity of the DNS of ancient Macedonians and the DNS of the modern Macedonians, whereas the Greeks have to accept that a blood relationship with the ancient Macedonians cannot be testified.\n\nThe extensive cultural politics described by “antiquization” not only describe an identitarian narrative promoted by VMRO-DPMNE. It also supports this narrative with the renaming of important public places, the staging of public events, architectural projects and interference in public education. The former City Stadium has been renamed into “National Arena Philip II of Macedonia”. The airport of Skopje is now called “Alexander the Great”, just as one of the main motorways, which is part of the pan-European Corridor Nr. 10. A central square in Skopje bears the name “Pella Square” named after Pella, the capital of the ancient kingdom of Macedon. Moreover, traces of so-called “antiquization” can even be found in history schoolbooks. The most explicit, Macedonia's new politics of history become visible in Europe's currently most ambitious urban development project “Skopje 2014”. The numerous statues which represent supposed Macedonian heroes, the newly erected triumphal arch Porta Makedonija, the lately constructed buildings for cultural and governmental purposes in neo-Baroque and Neoclassical architecture, the renewed facades of old socialist blocks, the new and the recently redesigned bridges: It all gives the impression of a manifestation of the Macedonian identity politics being carved in stone.\n\nThe figures displayed in the project range from Alexander the Great, Justinian I (Emperor of the Roman Byzantine Empire), and Christian missionaries of the 1st millennium to revolutionary characters of the late 19th and early 20th century. According to Valentina Bozinovska, chair woman of the state commission for relations with religious communities, \"[...] the Skopje 2014 project is a statement of all that we have had from the ancient period until today. For the first time we have a chance to create a tangible manifestation of Macedonian identity. [...] Civilization practically started here\". The sum paid by the project's main investor VMRO-DPMNE, range, depending on the source, from 80 to 200 million Euros. Some critics even predict a total sum up to 500 million Euros. \n\nIn addition, new traditions are being (re-)invented in the way that Ancient Macedonian holidays are added or existing holidays expanded with Ancient Macedonian features and/or new ceremonies. Another example fitting into the antiquization narrative is based on an ethnological study in the Hunza Valley of Pakistan, situated in the Pakistani part of the Himalayas. The study revealed that people of the Burusho tribe maintain the legend of being descendants of soldiers of the army of Alexander the Great, and therefore regard Macedonia as their homeland. As a consequence, in 2008 a delegation of the Hunza royal family visited Macedonia and was “welcomed home” by the Prime Minister, the Archbishop of the Macedonian Orthodox Church, the Mayor of Skopje and a flag-waving crowd.\n\nFurther, as part of a governmental campaign, videos were broadcast that featured Alexander the Great as the liberator of African and Asian people, saying, it is not Macedonian to retreat. On another occasion the movie “Macedonian prayer” was broadcast by the state-governed national television at prime time. Being directed by a member of the Diaspora organization World Macedonian Congress, this movie claims that the Macedonians were created by God before anyone else and that they constitute the origin of the white race.\n\nAnalyses of Macedonian textbooks revealed that the recent politics of history have also influenced the knowledge taught in schools. For instance, this is demonstrated in the way the particularity of the ethnic Macedonians throughout the Middle Ages and the Roman era is delineated.\n\nMacedonian antiquization as it can be observed recently, is regarded as a rather young phenomenon that developed its full potential for political mobilization in the last years, as a substantial element of the political agenda of the ruling party VMRO-DPMNE. Yet, traces of antiquization, albeit not called like this, can be found in the past. Some see the background of antiquization in the 19th and early 20th century and the “myth of ancient descent among Orthodox Slavic speakers in Macedonia, adopted partially due to Greek cultural inputs”.\n\nImportant for endorsing such beliefs were anti-Bulgarian attempts by secular and religious Greek institutions. One of these Greek approaches was the spread of the myth of the origin from Alexander the Great and Ancient Macedonians. Greek priests and academics tried to convince the local Orthodox Slavic-speaking population that they were Macedonians, directly related to Alexander the Great, and, as a result, Greeks. The aim was to persuade these people to turn away from Slavic exertion of influence and to accept the authority of the government in Athens. In the last quarter of the 19th century in the geographic region called Macedonia, which constituted the last part of the Ottoman Empire on the Balkan Peninsula that still had not gained independence, a serious struggle emerged about the national affiliation of the Christian Slavs. However, the claims of the already independent states Bulgaria, Greece and Serbia overlapped considerably, since they all could refer to Macedonia having been part of their correspondent empire during the Middle Ages.\n\nWherever one might locate the origin of Ancient Macedonian nationhood among parts of the Orthodox Slavic speaking population: national myths inspired by antiquity did not play an important role in any of the events that Macedonian historiography regards as a milestone of present-day Macedonian state- and nationhood - above all the Ilinden Uprising and the Kruševo Republic in 1903. Michael Kubiena states that at the times of the Macedonian Struggle and the Balkan Wars, considerable parts of the local populations worried more about social and economic stability, than about “dying for nationalisms”. \"Ethnicity was as much the consequence as the cause of this unrest; revolutionary violence produced national affiliations as well as being produced by them\". Furthermore, \"there have neither been any references towards Alexander the Great or Ancient Macedonia in the iconography and the popular mythology of the interwar platforms for the Macedonian national liberation. As well, they have been absent in the partisan movement during the Second World War and were not referred to in the proclamation of the Macedonian statehood in 1944\". \n\nA narrative that comes close to the notion of Ancient Macedonian nationhood during the coming into being of a modern Macedonian state, was the idea of a United or Greater Macedonia, which was based on the estimated territory of the Ancient Kingdom of Macedon under the rule of Philip II. Early national poets used those borders in order to define a corresponding nation in their writings. The ASNOM manifesto (English: Anti-fascist Assembly for the National Liberation of Macedonia; Macedonian: Antifašističko Sobranie za Narodno Osloboduvanje na Makedonija) took reference to the “shameful partition” of Macedonia in the course of the Balkan Wars and it contained the appeal to the “Macedonians under Bulgaria and Greece” to take part in the anti-fascist fight and the struggle for Macedonian unification.\n\nUnder the rule of Josip Broz Tito in Yugoslavia, Macedonia was recognized for the first time as an individual ethnic and political entity. Yet, some regard the reason for the recognition of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia by Tito and his government as a pragmatic decision, inasmuch as the Macedonian national consciousness seemed a rather strong force, whose suppression might have been a demanding task. The notion of a Greater Macedonia was also regarded as a crucial resource for Tito's expansionist ideas. The ideal was a greater Balkan Federation through the inclusion of Bulgaria and Greece. These plans stopped when Greek and Yugoslav communists split due to the discord between Tito and Joseph Stalin.\n\nImportant for the Macedonian nation building process was the standardization of the Macedonian language, as well as the publication of a national history. For this reason the Institute for National History was founded in 1948 through a government decree. What followed was the formation and reformation of national creation myths in academic circles and institutions, spearheaded by the Institute for National History and influenced by the interplay of politics, national interests and historiography and the subsequent creation of “historical ‘Masterpieces’” in order to support the uniqueness of Macedonia. According to Stefan Troebst, concerning this matter, Macedonia has been regarded as an exception among the Yugoslavian states, since “the ideology of Yugoslavianism proclaimed in 1952 was here once again subordinated to the one of Macedonism”. \n\nIn Yugoslav times, several narratives of origin existed and the myth of Ancient Macedonian origin was incorporated in the nation building process. Nevertheless, according to Vangeli (and contrasting Troebst's view), this narrative was subordinated to the narrative of Yugoslav (i.e. South Slav) origin, which played a central role in Tito's Yugoslavian nation-building process. However, references to antiquity, for instance by means of official history books, were institutionalized already in Yugoslavian times. As Vangeli analyzes, the notion of Macedonian ancient history “[still] was taken with a reserve, and was mostly instrumentalized in the disputes with Bulgarian historiography and also as a protection from the nationalist discourse among certain Macedonians that was based on the idea of ‘returning the Bulgarian consciousness’ of Macedonians”.\n\nAlthough official institutions used the recollection of antiquity in moderate ways, Ancient Macedonian narratives were crucial for the nationalism of parts of the Macedonian Diaspora. Agnew states, that “the 1980s had seen the emergence in Yugoslav Macedonia and in the Macedonian Diaspora (particularly in Australia and Canada) of a ‘‘Macedonism’’ or Macedonian nationalism that drew exactly opposite conclusions about the ‘‘ethnicity’’ of ancient Macedonia and Alexander the Great than did Greek nationalism”. There has been evidence, that organization established by members of the Macedonian Diaspora in Australia, Canada and the United States used ancient Macedonian symbols for representation purposes already before 1980. Further it has been argued, that ethnic Macedonian refugees who fled from Greek Macedonia in the times of the Greek Civil War, were crucial for this initial development of antiquization, as the narrative of ancient descent has been regarded as credible among Greeks and ethnic Macedonians or Slavs in Greece.\n\nWhen the Republic of Macedonia declared its independence in 1991 and hence re-opened the national question, it faced criticism and denial from various sides and in various ways, which might have served as a source of inspiration for nationalistic discourses and later antiquization. While most states accepted the young state, some countries denied the independency of a Macedonian nation, the existence of a Macedonian language and the singularity of a Macedonian identity. Even nowadays, for instance, many Bulgarians, although officially recognizing the Republic of Macedonia, still regard Macedonians as ‘actually’ being Bulgarians. Another controversial subject is the autocephaly of the Macedonian Orthodox Church. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, most churches are organized on a national level. The independence of an Orthodox church is thus directly linked to a nation's recognition. However, to this day, the Serbian, Bulgarian and Greek churches do not acknowledge the Macedonian Orthodox church, which can be interpreted as calling the existence of a Macedonian nation into question. The most known conflicts with neighboring countries, which influence Macedonia's politics till the present, are the flag and name dispute with Greece. From a Macedonian perspective, the negation of a distinctive Macedonian language, history and customs seemed and seems like a fundamental challenge for their national identity. \n\nAlready shortly after the independence in 1992, official institutions gradually highlighted the ancient past more and more. The post-independence version of the official “History of the Macedonian People” dealt with the topic of the Ancient Macedonian Kingdom on 200 pages. In comparison, the edition from the year 1969 needed only 20 pages to treat the same topic.\n\nAt the same time, the flag of the Republic of Macedonia, the first public display of what later has been called antiquization, caused serious tensions with its neighboring country Greece. The new flag of the Republic of Macedonia depicted the Star of Vergina. This symbol, discovered in the 1970s, is regarded as the symbol of the Argead dynasty, the ancient royal family of the kingdom of Macedon. It is claimed by Greece to be an integral part of its cultural and historical heritage. This flag dispute went along with the infamous name dispute, since Greece also would not accept the name “Republic of Macedonia” for its neighboring country, as it feared usurpation of history as well as territorial claims from the Slavic-Macedonian side. Further, Greece rejects the term “Macedonian” for the description of the south Slavic language spoken in the Republic of Macedonia, as well as for the local population. Due to political pressure by the Greek government, which eventually led to the signing of an Interim Accord in 1995, Macedonia temporally adopted the name “The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia” for international use, removed the Star of Vergina from its flag and erased all allegedly irredentist clauses from its constitution. Macedonia also had to refrain from using symbols that constitute a part of Greece’ historic or cultural patrimony.\n\nIn the aftermath of this agreement most narratives of Ancient Macedonian descent were suspended by official institutions. Yet, the myths of Ancient Macedonian origin never totally disappeared in all political and academic circles. Similarly, the ancient past remained a substantial part of Macedonian national history in history textbooks. \n\nThe name dispute with Greece, which is still not solved, is not only a matter of political conflict, but through the construction of history and claims for heritage, this matter is advanced by scientific advocates for national causes on both sides. Étienne Balibar describes the importance of a nation's name for the national identity. The consequent contestation of the name chosen by Macedonia obviously is a cause of frustration for the Macedonian government and parts of the population. If no solution will be found, the name dispute threatens to further block Macedonia's membership in the NATO as well as its accession to the European Union. Nikola Gruevski, Macedonia's current prime minister and leader of the VMRO-DPMNE, stated that “his government and the population are not willing to tolerate ‘blackmailing’ by their Greek neighbors and perceive their request for a name-change as a threat to Macedonian identity”. Negating Macedonia's name and identity is thus perceived as negating the existence of Macedonians in general. In this manner, the name dispute plays a crucial role in the strengthening of national discourses, artistic production and serious tensions between the two major ethnic groups in Macedonia. For some ethnic Macedonians the name of the country has an existential meaning, since it is inseparably linked to their nation. For other population groups in Macedonia the country's name does not have this importance. They are rather unsatisfied that the government is not willing to concede in this matter, which would improve the foreign policy situation of the country and, hence, the country's economical opportunities.\n\nIn April 2008, Greece blocked the Accession of Macedonia to NATO with a veto at the Bucharest summit. Subsequently, in 2009, the Greek government prevented Macedonia from getting a date on part of the European Union for starting accession talks. The Accession of Macedonia to the European Union is still pending. It has been argued, that since then, antiquization has “snowballed into a wider phenomenon”. As Macedonia's president Gjorge Ivanov announced, “the Classical drive” has its roots in “the frustration and depression felt after the NATO Summit in Bucharest”.\n\nAccording to Graewert, the political elite of Macedonia enabled a peaceful secession from war-torn Yugoslavia in 1991. Ten years later they managed the relatively mild, compared to the Kosovo War, settlement of the armed conflict with the UÇK. In a regional comparison these achievements have been regarded as a best-practice model. Thus, in 2005 Macedonia was rewarded with the status of an EU candidate country. But since Greece stopped Macedonia's NATO accession in violation of the law of nations, on the one hand, the Macedonian government has surrendered to the authoritarian temptation and increasingly shown semi-autocratic tendencies, and on the other hand, the self-consciousness of the majority of ethnic Macedonians has been additionally perpetuated. The potentially upcoming EU membership had been perceived as an important step for Macedonia's economic progress. And the NATO affiliation had been regarded as a promise that violent incidents such as the 2001 conflict would not be repeated.\n\nThe fact of being excluded from these organizations despite the investments and reforms that had been undertaken, ultimately revitalized the uncertainty concerning the country's economic and security perspectives. This has strengthened the “defeatist attitude”, that, irrespective of the efforts of the Macedonian government, Greece and other opponents would always find a possibility to block Macedonia's progress. “The main engine driving nation-state building has not been Albanian-Macedonian relations, but rather the tensions with Greece over Macedonia’s name, particularly acute since the Greek veto to Macedonia’s NATO membership in 2008. The widely pursued antiquization campaign, including the megalomanic project Skopje 2014, have emphasized promoting one ethnic defined identity”.\n\nOn the other hand, it has been argued, that Greece showed vigorous reactions to the initial antiquization policies, such as the renaming of Skopje's airport in 2007, which subsequently altered Greece's attitude towards the Republic of Macedonia. In the end, the name issue and next to it the symbolic dispute about the ancient Macedonian heritage became the last obstacle on Macedonia's unsuccessful way to negotiations for full EU membership.\n\nIn the Macedonian parliamentary election, 2006, VMRO-DPMNE became the largest power in the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia. Since the Macedonian parliamentary election, 2008, the ruling party, led by Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski, formed a coalition with the largest Albanian party, DUI (Democratic Union for Integration). It is this period after the arrival to power of the VMRO-DPMNE that is inseparably linked to antiquization, since it is the time when the myths of ancient nationhood gained new importance due to VMRO-DPMNE's devotion to nationalist and identitarian politics. It is the time when antiquization gained its full potential for political mobilization, when the “name of Alexander the Great was used to simply depict the nation’s grandeur and to nourish the people’s spirit” and when the VMRO-DPMNE “aimed to gain the loyalty of Macedonian nationalists once again” through the celebration of national mythology. It is this period, which experienced all the example of antiquization described above.\n\nThe perceptions of the identitarian and historical politics of VMRO-DPMNE in Macedonia and across the globe differ strongly. VMRO-DPMNE presents its policies and their visual manifestation as the representation of the true Macedonian history. According to this viewpoint it is not inventing but representing history as it was and rewriting a hidden history. The antiquization politics and Skopje 2014 are often represented as being conducted and facilitated by the government. This is applicable to the VMRO-DPMNE, the leading party of the government, which seeks to represent issues of the ethnic Macedonian majority of the country, but as Ulf Brunnbauer points out, the coalition partner DUI, rejects these policies.\nProponents of the government's politics of the recollection of ancient Macedonian origin and its display in Skopje 2014 argue that “it neatly offers a linear chronological overview of all things Macedonian”. In this view, Skopje 2014 is seen as an opportunity for history to neutrally speak for itself, as if the understanding and presentation of history would not be ideologically and politically disputed but rather obvious and objective. Accordingly, this (re)presentation of history is thus not influenced by VMRO-DPMNE's ideological beliefs.\n\nThe term “antiquization”, which reveals a willing recollection and re-interpretation of an alleged ancient past, is thus dismissed by government proponents as an “invented neologism in a broad anti-Macedonian conspiracy” that tries to undermine Macedonia's true historical grandeur.\n\nThe recollection of antiquity of the VMRO-DPMNE, so-called antiquization, experiences strong criticism from various directions and for various reasons. Macedonian and international civil society, scholars, oppositional politicians and neighboring countries, in particular Greece and Bulgaria, express their dislike. A lot of criticism refers to political, legal, esthetical and financial aspects concerning Skopje 2014. This article focuses mainly on criticism about the historical and political content and implications of the whole narrative referred to by “antiquization”, from which Skopje 2014 constitutes only one, but a very noticeable aspect. \n\nAmong critics, antiquization is seen as an ethno-nationalistic discourse that is built around the outstanding figure of Alexander the Great. This power-ridden hegemonic discourse is mainly imposed by the political elite and the VMRO-DPMNE and is based upon a process of rereading history. Such a process of the highly selective nationalist reading of history, the selective remembering and un-remembering of specific matters is regarded as essential for nationalist political mobilization. As mentioned above, some sections of the scientific and pseudo-scientific public increasingly fostered this process.\n\nLinked to this nationalistic discourse is the construction of a national Macedonian identity. According to Brunnbauer, the Macedonian state just starts to get engaged with a project which its neighboring countries performed already in the course of the 19th century: to design a historical myth, which is based upon the ideas of historical continuity and autochthonous origin. The aim is to “proof” or to convince Macedonians to believe in the continuity of ‘the’ Macedonian history and the direct descent of the modern ethnic Macedonians from the Ancient Macedonians. The endeavor is nothing less than drawing an uninterrupted line from the ancient Kingdom of Macedon to the present, in order to emphasize the great achievements of the Macedonian nation, its heritage and its peculiarity.\n\nFrom a nationalist Macedonian perspective, the self-portrayal as descendants of the Ancient Macedonians has the advantage of presenting the Macedonians as an autochthonous people. In this way, a claim on Macedonian territory can be substantiated. In the words of Margaret MacMillan \"History provides much of the fuel for nationalism. It creates the collective memories that help to bring the nation into being. The shared celebration of the nation’s great achievements – and the shared sorrow at its defeat – sustain and foster it. The further back the history appears to go, the more solid and enduring the nation seems – and the worthier its claims\". These claims not only contain territory. The principle of autochthonism also comprises the historical right of a nation to control certain symbols – “the older the nation is imagined, the more powerful it is, thus the more right it has to manifest its dominion”.\n\nIn the Macedonian case the government attempts to legitimize its right to the name and the remaining symbolical capital of Macedonia by means of the supposed straight link with the Ancient Kingdom. The myth of autochthony also supplies the need to distinguish ethnic Macedonians from their neighbors and ethnically differing compatriots, as it suggests that the ancestors of the Macedonians lived in this area before it was populated by the ancestors of the neighboring peoples. Balibar refers to the myth of origins and national continuity as \"an effective ideological form, in which the imaginary singularity of national formation is constructed daily, by moving back from present into history\". However, unpleasing for the Macedonians is the fact that substantial components of their myth already constitute fundamental elements of the interpretation of national history from their neighboring countries. As a consequence they experience aggressive repudiation for their claims\n\nAnother point of critique against the antiquization narrative and Skopje 2014 aims at the alleged neatly “linear chronological overview of all things Macedonian”. Maja Muhić and Aleksandar Takovski regard this claim as ironic, since they almost cannot find any correlation between the represented figures that are used to demonstrate the continuity of Macedonian national identity.\n\nA challenge for the continuity narrative and a reason for the conflicting national historical claims of the different states in the Balkans is the dynamic and changeful past of this region. A part of what is nowadays called the geographical region Macedonia, belonged to the Ancient Kingdom of Macedon. Thereafter, at various times, the term ‘Macedonia’ covered different administrative districts of the Roman Empire, the Byzantine Empire, and the Ottoman Empire. None of these districts was permanent or stable. Already in Byzantine times, Byzantine writers used the terms “Macedonia” and “Macedonians” in different, sometimes unclear and misleading ways. “The generally accepted knowledge in today’s historiography holds that for Late Antiquity, as well as for later in Byzantium, the term Macedonia/ Macedonians has a regional/provincial/geographical meaning, and certainly not an ethnic one”.\n\nIf one neglects the debate about the exact numbers, there is a rather broad consensus that during the Ottoman Empire the geographic region Macedonia was populated by Turks, Albanians, Jews, Vlachs, Greeks, Roma and other smaller groups. However, throughout the Middle Ages and up until the early 20th century the Slavic speaking majority in the Region of Macedonia were more commonly referred to (both, by themselves and outsiders) as Bulgarians. However, in pre-nationalist times, terms such as \"Bulgarian\" did not possess a strict ethno-nationalistic meaning in modern aspect. Accordingly, in the last phase of the Ottoman Empire, fierce fighting arose about the national affiliation of these people. Subsequently, at the time of the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire, Greeks, Bulgarians, and Serbs tried to include Macedonia into their states.\n\nIn the end, all occurrences, events and ruptures that took place in the geographical region of Macedonia are neither a sequence of linear developments nor the inherent property of a single nation state. Nonetheless, in the attempt to consolidate their national identity, the newly emerging states in the Balkans tried to confirm singularity by claiming historical events and figures as being exclusively their own. Even if the notion of Ancient Macedonian descent might seem explicable if one considers the name dispute with Greece and the challenges to a Macedonian identity, and also if one takes into consideration the need to gain points in the ethnic-Macedonian part of the electorate: the narrative of continuity and autochthony is not the only choice available.\n\nSeveral scholars see VMRO-DPMNE's promotion of so-called antiquization as a reaction to the stagnation of Macedonia's foreign affairs due to Greek opposition to Macedonia's efforts for EU and NATO-membership. According to this view, Gruevski's government thus prioritized its consolidation of power on the national level as well as it aims at fostering Macedonia's nation building process. Christopher Flood describes these kinds of processes in a more general manner. Therefore, political myths and grand narratives, as for example ancient Macedonian nationhood, come up as a consequence of a situation in which a society experienced some kind of trauma. Others point out that the glory of a national hero like Alexander the Great helps to overcome what has been called the ‘moral crisis of post-communism’: the situation of a country that still has to handle the burden of a complex and tiresome post-communist transition, smoldering ethnicized tensions, a weak economy and low living standards. Vangeli, therefore, summarizes that “antiquity-inspired Macedonian nationalist rhetoric has emerged as a ‘compensation for backwardness’ (Hanák) brought by the unsuccessful regime change and the incomplete consolidation of the new regime\". However, as outlined above, Greece's opposition is also motivated by Macedonia's recollection of its alleged ancient history and descent. Both countries thus enter a vicious circle if one follows the argumentation that Greece's opposition was due to Macedonia's antiquization and Macedonia's antiquization was due to Greece's opposition. \n\nStill, antiquization seems to effectively address the negative sentiments of some Macedonians and their feeling of being rejected. The notion of being descendants of a glorious and famous empire comforts some Macedonians and is used to strengthen national pride. The government's rhetoric of the glorious Macedonian past offers distinction from their neighbors, a legitimation for the national struggle and thus serves as an inspiration for political movements. At the same time the image of the celebrated past is contrasted to the image of a problematic and questionable present and in the end it is used for the mobilization of the masses.\n\nMacedonian antiquization can be described as an act of communication that aims at two directions; inward as well as outward. One aims at the inner nation building process, the other at the representation of Macedonia in the international sphere. By using names like Alexander the Great for its airports and highways, Macedonia tries to mobilize the potential of antiquity and to gain the impact of globally known and recognized names. Further, the image of antiquity is used for tourism advertisements on international television. Government-funded campaigns promote Macedonia as the ‘Cradle of Culture’ or bear the title ‘Macedonia timeless’ while presenting Macedonian archaeology and ancient heritage. In the same way, the monuments and buildings that constitute a part of Skopje 2014 are believed to help to improve Macedonia's image for international visitors and to attract tourists on a long-term basis.\n\nThe urban planning project Skopje 2014 plays an outstanding and exceptionally visible role in Macedonia's identitarian politics and virtually can be seen as an illustration of the whole process of antiquization. Hence, this ‘mass-production of tradition’ and its ‘statuomania’ also is a central object of critique. \n\nCritics regard Skopje 2014 as a nationalistic construction site, where nation building gets a new meaning. Here the government literally builds a national identity. In addition to the critique in terms of the content, the opposition's discourse harshly criticizes Skopje 2014 on several other grounds, including financial embezzlement and corruption; circumvention of local government laws, urban planning, and building permits; the non-transparent manner of planning and decision making; an unprofessional and devastating architectural concept; aesthetic kitsch; ‘cultural rape’ that demonstrates a lack of understanding of national and cultural values; and an expression of political totalitarianism. Nebosja Vilic, a professor at the Faculty of Arts in Skopje, sees the main problem of the project in the missing democratic public discussion. The sponsors of Skopje 2014, in contrast, try to avoid public debate and ideas of international as well as local experts and neglect them.\n\nA major critique is obviously the high costs of the project. While government sources talk about total costs of about 80 million Euros, critics estimate a total sum of approximately 500 million Euros. And this in times in which 30 to 40 % of Macedonia's population are unemployed. Many voices complain about such high and unfeasible costs and that the funds could have been invested differently, especially in times of a poor economic situation in Macedonia. The VMRO-DPMNE-led government has been accused of constantly prioritizing cultural policies over objective problems: in the course of a global financial crisis, the Macedonian government spends vast amounts of its state budget on the erection of statues, the construction of monumental buildings and archaeological excavations encouraged by the myths of ancient Macedonian descent instead of focusing on real problems. In this manner identity questions could also serve as a distraction. The government, on the contrary, brings forward the argument of economic benefit. It promotes Skopje 2014 as an investment encouraging the growth of the local economy, creating new jobs and acquiring extra income from newly attracted tourists.\nSome scholars consider Skopje 2014 in its role as the most visible aspect of antiquization as a spectacular turning point in regard to official narratives of Macedonian national identity, turning away from previous narratives of national identity. As described in the narrative referred to as antiquization, according to them, Skopje 2014 intends to construct an explicit narrative of Macedonian identity by manufacturing a continuity from antiquity over the Middle Ages to the time of Macedonia's struggle for nationhood, and incorporating this into Skopje's built environment. Visitors in the city centre of Skopje can observe the emergence of the sculptured picture of a nation who praises its uninterrupted history of 2500 years and its heroes, not considering whether they are being 'borrowed' from other nations, derive from shared histories or earlier, rival forms of state formation A nation who achieved fame in the past, who spread European civilization, a nation who defended its originality and independence against seemingly superior adversaries, who obtained its nationhood, a nation who is therefore meant for greater things. Skopje 2014 \"[t]hus […] fabricates an idealized, aesteticized version of Macedonian history, by selectively transforming the world of experience into a representation of an ideological tendency and by erasing others”.\n\nNoticeable is the gender specific iconography of the monuments of Skopje 2014. Besides Mother Teresa there is only one other woman represented in a central position. A nameless pregnant woman who gives birth to a child, breast-feeds it, and subsequently nurtures it. This fountain constellation is called “Mothers of Macedonia”. The represented men, however, bear names and fight for the nation. In Brunnbauer's view, this perfectly illustrates the understanding of gender roles in traditional 19th century nationalism.\n\nAt first sight it seems ironic that social scientists assert that the identitarian policies of VMRO-DPMNE and its manifestation in Skopje 2014 present disrupted narratives, since the way the past is remembered simply ignores and in its consequence deletes important parts of the history of the region. Critics point out that the remembrance of the Ottoman times is neglected, although over five hundred years of Ottoman rule and culture left its traces in the whole region. They even speak about a “de-Ottomanization” process obliterating Ottoman heritage and moving away from Islam. Also the Yugoslavian times, which had significant impact on the young Macedonian state as well, are cut out of the alleged historical continuity. For VMRO-DPMNE both periods constitute an anathema: the Ottoman rule - the so-called Turkish yoke – is regarded as the dark 500 years. The affiliation to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is seen as the time of suppressing Macedonia's striving for autonomy. The intended cutting off of the socialist legacy again seems ironic, since it was under the guidance and as part of the SFRY that the Republic of Macedonia was constituted for the first time in the year 1944.\n\nIn Muhić and Takovskis’ view, Skopje 2014 “aims at creating a Macedonian, Orthodox Christian national identity amidst competing neighbouring agendas and the multicultural setting of the country. It does so by tearing apart, fragmenting and creating discontinuous segments of the organic tissue of the history of this region and country for the benefit of a few and the loss of the vast majority of Macedonian citizens”. Also other authors describe Skopje 2014 as a project aimed at redefining Skopje's urban character within a short time. New buildings disguise and hide the modernist constructions of the Yugoslav period as well as the Ottoman architecture of the Carcija (the old Turkish Bazaar), which have been the two most distinctive characteristics of the city. “Instead, the project promises Skopje a new image, one that will deliver Macedonia a properly “European” capital, at once attractive to outsiders and worthy of national pride”.\n\nFurther, critics claim, that the identitarian politics, by writing a mono-ethnic and mono-cultural history, not only leave out certain parts of the country's history, but that the multicultural reality of the Macedonian Republic is being ignored. Disregarding the Ottoman and Muslim heritage, emphasizing the Christian cultural imprint, focusing only on matters regarding the origin of ethnic Macedonians and ignoring the multicultural Macedonian reality, pushes the Albanian population and other minority groups such as Turks, Vlachs, Serbs and Roma to the side and signals that they are not an integral part of Macedonian history and, hence, Macedonia. Some critics describe that the multicultural approach that was elaborated in the Ohrid Framework Agreement (OFA) in 2001 and improved the conditions of the Albanian population, is now rejected due to antiquization and Skopje 2014. It has also been stated that this mono-ethnic display and interpretation of history symbolically degrades ethnic Albanians to the status they had before the 2001 agreement. This is to say that antiquization and Skopje 2014 erode the basis of the post-OFA Macedonian society, i.e. the inclusive model of representation and the recognition of cultural diversity. Leading to a re-ethnicization of multiple levels of society.\nEven Sam Vaknin, a former advisor to Prime Minister Gruevski, delineated antiquization as an anti-Albanian nation-building project, rather than being anti-Greek or anti-Bulgarian. Also other authors regard Skopje 2014 as a message in the permanent tensions between the Macedonian majority and the Albanian minority. They coincide in their view upon Skopje 2014 having an ethnic-Macedonian connotation, ignoring the ethnic plurality of the city. In Brunnbauer's view, this also serves to demonstrate the Macedonian claim to ownership of “their” capital, which they see threatened by the Albanians.\nSkopje 2014 does not offer any space for symbols of reconciliation. For instance the 2001 conflict between mainly ethnic Macedonian armed forces and the Albanian guerilla is remembered and represented only from an ethnic-Macedonian perspective. The \"strategic positioning of some of the religion-inspired statues rather appear as a provocation of the predominantly Muslim Albanian community\". The construction of a new Orthodox church on the main city square, as it had been planned and presented in the Skopje 2014 promotion video, could so far be prevented due to engaged protest.\nAntiquization and Skopje 2014 are widely perceived as causing deterioration in inter-ethnic relations. Minority groups in Macedonia oppose the one-sided ethnocentric approach of antiquization and leading Albanians have warned about the growing frustration among non-Macedonians. Furthermore, Skopje 2014 is largely regarded as blocking Macedonia's European integration process, which some observers consider as one main strategic goal of Albanian politics in Macedonia. Thus, an enduring blockade of the integration could foster ethnic conflicts. And according to Gromes, without the perspective of the accession to the European Union, the incentive disappears to further work on ethnic balancing and the implementation of the OFA. In this manner, the name dispute and the struggle about historical heritage with neighboring Greece could heavily burden Macedonian-Albanian relations. A Survey reveals that 17 percent of the ethnic Macedonians and 78 percent of the ethnic Albanians favor a change of the constitutional name “Republic of Macedonia”. Another survey indicates that 82 percent of the ethnic Macedonians prioritize the name “Republic of Macedonia” over NATO and European Union accessions.\n\nIt has been argued, that the antiquization process illustrates a situation of power imbalance and power abuse within Macedonian internal politics. It has been described that the government-led discourse attempted to silence opposing voices and by doing so risking the elimination of public space and the emergence of insuperable ideological, political and social gaps in an already unstable social and political realities. These societal fissures do not only run along ethnic lines but even disunite ethnic Macedonians for various reasons, as for instance believing in Slavic or Ancient descent or supporting VMRO-DPMNE or SDSM.\n\nThe processes in Macedonia that have been called antiquization, show, which significance the ones in power give to history as a resource for political legitimacy and mobilization. Externally, the enterprise of revising Macedonia's official history and to work on the national self-image of ethnic Macedonians has negatively influenced the dynamics of the name dispute with Greece and, hence, deteriorated the international position of the country. Simultaneously, it has fostered inter-ethnic tensions and posed serious challenges for the weak multicultural society. However, with regard to home affairs, antiquization seems to have fulfilled its purpose. VMRO-DPMNE wins elections on a regular basis, which, according to Brunnbauer do not entirely meet European standards of fairness, but still represent a realistic picture of the political preferences in the country. To the strong criticism of antiquization, the Macedonian government and its proponents replied by defending their indentitarian policies and by further fortifying antiquization.\nYet, critics warn about increasing ethnic and other social fissures and a growing fragmentation of the relatively unstable society. Again others consider a continuing blockade of Macedonia's European integration as the country's main threat, as they regard the European integration as the only option for keeping the Macedonian state together and avoiding its disintegration.\n\nSurveys from the Institute of Social Sciences and Humanities Skopje (ISSHS) on the effects of Skopje 2014 on the perceptions of the population of Skopje revealed a high degree of uncertainty regarding their national identity. In a poll asking people to choose the historical period that defines the Macedonian national identity, the breakdown of responses was as follows: Independence (from 1991) 13%; enlightenment period (19th century) 26%; the revolutionary period (beginning of the 20th century) 31%; SFRY 30%. Following the results of a supplementary national poll, carried out by ISSHS in September 2013, only 5.8% of the general population viewed antiquity as a historically and culturally defining period for Macedonia, whereas among ethnic Macedonians the result was 7.6%. “These results show that there is a great discrepancy between the population’s sentiment and the narrative the Government seeks to promote”.\n\n"}
{"id": "44241294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44241294", "title": "Argiletum", "text": "Argiletum\n\nThe Argiletum () was the main route approaching the Forum Romanum from the northeast in the ancient city of Rome. It connected the Forum with the Subura district of the city. As it originally passed between Comitium and Basilica Pauli, the Argiletum was eventually absorbed by the construction of the imperial fora from the time of Julius Caesar onwards. Given this encroachment, the limits of the Argiletum were defined differently in various periods. By the time of Martial (died ca 103 CE) the Argiletum had become a seedy district filled with taverns and brothels.\n\nLivy indicates that the temple of Ianus Geminus was located \"ad infimum Argiletum\" (Liv. 1.19.1).\n\nVarro claimed that the etymology of the term \"argiletum\" was connected with the name of a Greek scoundrel.\n"}
{"id": "3149555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3149555", "title": "Bagoas (courtier)", "text": "Bagoas (courtier)\n\nBagoas ( \"Bagoi\", \"Bagōas\") was a eunuch in the court of the Persian Empire in the 4th Century BC. Bagoas was a eunuch, a courtier of Darius and later of Alexander the Great.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, Bagoas won a dancing contest after the Macedonian crossing of the Gedrosian Desert. The Macedonian troops, with whom Bagoas was very popular, demanded that king Alexander should kiss Bagoas, and he did so. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26854025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26854025", "title": "Balkar and Karachay nationalism", "text": "Balkar and Karachay nationalism\n\nBalkar and Karachai nationalism is the national sentiment among the Balkars and Karachai. It generally manifests itself in:\n\n\nIn 1943 and 1944, the Balkars and Karachais were deported \"en masse\" to Central Asia, as were the Chechens, Ingush and Kalmyks. All groups were accused of \"collaboration with the Nazis\".\n\nAfter the deportation, as happened to the other victims, the Balkars and Karachais were stripped of all political recognition of their territories. The Kabardino-Balkar Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was renamed to the Kabardin ASSR, while the Karachay Autonomous Oblast was completely wiped of the map and partitioned into territories given to the Cherkess Autonomous Oblast, Stavropol Krai, Krasnodar krai and the Georgian SSR.\n\nThe account of the NKVD (the organization guilty of the deportation), the following statistics were given:\n\n\nMany historians have questioned the authenticity of the NKVD report, stating that it was probably a far understatement, noting also that the figure produced by Khruschev in 1956 contradicts Beria's figure by at least 96,000 people (and stating that even Khrushchev's could have been an understatement, considering his position).\n\nContrary to the Soviet view of the whole nations as treacherous Nazi-collaborators, according to the official statistics, 4428 of deported Chechens, 946 Ingush, 2543 Karachai, and 1045 Balkars were veterans of the Red Army.\n\nDespite the appalling conditions, the Balkars and Karachais contributed greatly to the economic development of Soviet Central Asia. In 1946 there were more than 50 Karachai Stakhanovites and 70 Karachai shockworkers (distinctions for those who consistently overfilled their quotas) in Voroshilov District in Kyrgyzstan alone. As the Balkars and Karachais demonstrated their industriousness and patriotism, they moved into positions of greater authority, especially in Kyrgyzstan, where numerous Karachai physicists, doctors and educators could be found. So valued were the Karachais that before their departure home in 1957, authorities in both Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan offered to create an autonomous oblast for them if they agreed to stay.\n\nIn exile, the Karachais and Balkars were able to obtain education for their children at a level far beyond what would have been possible in their homeland. They also integrated into the religious life of the Central Asians and many received formal Islamic training and collected private libraries of Islamic books. After their return home, they maintained ties to the religious communities they left behind. The returnees were better educated that those who remained, better versed in Islam than they had been before, and were instilled with a deep sense of indignation for the unjust and inhumane acts committed against them by the Soviet government.\n\nAs is the case with the other victims of this deportation, as well as many of the Soviet deportations as a whole, the Balkars and Karachais view it as a national tragedy, a central part of the nation's victimhood, and demand it be recognized as a genocide.\n\nBalkar/Karachay nationalism in its current reincarnation first became visible during the glasnost era when the Soviet Union was ruled by the reform-minded Mikhail Gorbachev although the population may have had various nationalist sentiments widely manifested among themselves before, as many of their neighbors did. At first, nationalist organizations watered down their rhetoric in order to not provoke a crackdown.\n\nThe Balkars and Karachays were relatively late compared to their neighbors in seizing autonomy and establishing visible national demands and movements, partly due to their lesser numbers and even lesser intelligentsia class. The first congresses for Balkars and Karachays were formed as late as 1991.\n\nIn general, Caucasus independence movements in the glasnost era were much more assertive and aggressive, being more similar to their Baltic counterparts which they often exchanged tactics with. In 1986, an important stepping stone was the release and popularity of the Georgian film \"Repentance\", which had undertones regarding the falsification of history by Moscow and the repression of nations. The film instantly became a hit across the mountains, and even more so after its politicization (leading to Shevardnadze actively protecting its director from Kremlin reprisal. The film had at least 30 million viewers after its first year of release, despite being described as a mediocre film. It was not long before Georgian nationalism in earnest began to make itself heard.\n\nThe second people in the Caucasus to develop a popular movement against Soviet power were the Chechens, who founded the Caucasus' first anti-Soviet group, \"Kavkaz\", in the summer of 1988. \"Kavkaz\" was originally disguised as an environmentalist group, perhaps earnestly, though it was agreed early on by its members that an establishment of autonomy would be the only way to secure their demands, including environmental protection. Soon, in Tbilisi, the Round Table/Free Georgia bloc was founded. Due to the Georgians' more powerful and confident position, it was inclined to much more inflammatory and openly nationalistic rhetoric of the historian and literary critic Zviad Gamsakhurdia. As the ethnic Armenian Caucasus expert Georgi Derluguian points out, All-Union conferences, intended for national unity, accomplished the opposite. Lithuanian, Latvian and Estonian intellectuals exchanged ideas with the Chechens and Georgians (and later other Caucasians), and at times even programmatic documents. This led to a radicalization of demands of all involved groups, as they became increasingly aware of the mass dislike toward the Russian center. It also led to the accelerating spread of nationalism to other groups.\n\nIn 1989, the hugely inadequate government response to the earthquakes in Armenia and Azerbaijan triggered a mass desertion of the Soviet system in general by the Eastern Caucasian regions (Armenia, Azerbaijan and Dagestan) that had been relatively loyal previously. The Azeri Popular Front, formed in 1989, was to become a pole to which the opposition gravitated. It's habitually theatrical activities paired with its occasional tendency to cite pan-Turkist ideology and the ethnic similarities between Azeris and the Karachays and Balkars drew the mass interest of the Balkar and Karachay public. Nonetheless, their activities remained timid. It wasn't until 1991, after Georgia and Armenia had already seceded from the Soviet Union, Dudayev had defected from the Red Army (while back in Checheno-Ingushetia the anti-Zavgayev forces were gathering power), and Azerbaijan was preparing to leave the union (only Dagestan had no plans for secession, because of its own multiethnic makeup and fragile situation), that the Balkars and Karachay began to stage their own demands.\n\nHowever, as was the case with other such movements, the rhetoric was slowly stepped up, especially as, after the Russian Federation was formed, Balkars and Karachais were angered by the perception that the center in Moscow wanted to re-centralize their territory (including a possible abolition of their autonomy). This was confirmed with Vladimir Putin's actions in 2000, and his explicitly stated policy advocating \"enlargement of regions of Russia\". Sergei Mironov stated on March 30, 2002 that \"89 federation subjects is too much, but larger regional units are easier to manage\" and that the goal was to merge them into 7 federal districts. Gradually, over time, ethnic republics were to be abolished to accomplish this goal of integration.\n\nThe Balkars are often seen as being much more overtly active than the Karachay, due to their lack of representation in the republican government (the Karachay are the dominant group in most of Karachay–Cherkessia while Balkars are a minority in Kabardino-Bakaria). Karachay nationalists, as many Cherkess activists moan (see Circassian nationalism), recently have been increasingly present and arguably influential in the government of Karachay–Cherkessia (often at the expense of Cherkess members), so there is less need for open protesting and other such activities.\n\nIn 1992, however, when the Karachay launched a massive autonomist campaign, and Boris Yeltsin eventually \"suggested\" a split of the Karachey-Cherkess republic into two ethnic republics. However, at that time, the control of the republic was still in the hands of Russians and Cherkess, who, in a moment of unity (one of the very last instances of good relations between the Russians and Circassians in the republic, who are often bitterly resentful of each other), quickly scrapped the bill, provoking the rage of the Karachay populace. However, at this point, the Karachay were more or less politically incapable of retaliating. This and the subsequent repression of Karachay aspirations is seen by some to be an important precursor to the fierce later repression of Cherkess irridentism by the Karachay-led government, which even resorted to historical-based attacks on Circassian nationalism (questioning the Circassian ethnicity of the man who first scaled Elbrus). Others, however, see it as \"artificial tensions\" created by puppet governments (be they run by ethnic Cherkess or by Karachay) of Moscow.\n\nMany people, ranging from Circassian activist coordinators to Akhmed Zakayev, Ichkerian head of government-in-exile to the liberal journalist Fatima Tlisova have speculated that Russia has tried to use a policy of divide and rule throughout the North Caucasus (citing examples of the Circassian vs. Karachai/Balkar rivalry, Ossetian-Ingush conflict, Georgian-Abkhaz conflict, Georgian-Ossetian conflict, interethnic rivalries in Dagestan and even the Nagorno-Karabakh War, which Russia also insists on mediating), creating \"unnatural conflicts\" that can only be solved by Kremlin intervention, keeping Caucasian peoples both weak and dependent on Russia to mediate their conflicts. Sufian Jemukhov and Alexei Bekshokov, leaders of the \"Circassian Sports Initiative\" stated that the conflict \"has the potential to blow up the whole Caucasus into a bloody mess with the mass civilian casualties and therefore keep the Circassians from opposing the Sochi Winter Olympics...Moscow plays the conflict scenario when the participants do not have the ability to solve the conflict, but the conflict is absolutely manageable and can be easily solved by its rulers from the Kremlin.\"\n\nIn 1996, the Kabardin-Balkar republic's Kremlin-installed government responded to demands to split the republic in two with mass arrests and repression.\n\nThe campaign for the recognition of the genocide is a central tenet and article of faith for Balkar and Karachay activists. It embodies the sense of persecution and loneliness felt by the Balkar and Karachay populace.\n\nKarachai and Balkar nationalists often hold rallies on the \"genocide anniversary\". On March 8, 2010, one such rally in Nal'chik (Kabardino-Balkaria) attracted hundreds of protesters, demanding \"self-determination\" for the Balkar people, claiming the Kabardin and Russian dominated parliament did nothing to address their woes. The rally drew some protest from the Russian population (calling it \"separatist\" and \"subversive\") and from the local government.\n\nIn 2010, in a conciliatory move (an attempt to defuse the three-way tensions between Russians, Circassians and Balkars in Kabardino-Balkaria), President Kanokov of the Kabardino-Balkar Republic recognized the deportations as genocide, echoing statements made by the Chechen separatist government, Estonia and a memorial at Vilna in Lithuania in solidarity with the Balkars and Karachai people as fellow deportation victims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11567525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11567525", "title": "Bambi Harper", "text": "Bambi Harper\n\nMaría Ana \"Bambi\" L. Harper is a Filipino cultural writer and socialite who was a former President of the Heritage Conservation Society of the Philippines, and a columnist for the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" with \"Sense and Sensibility\", which focuses on Philippine cultural history. In 2008, she became 7th Administrator of the historic Intramuros district of Manila.\n\nIn early September 2008, it was reported that administrative charges could be leveled against Harper for having allowed the cutting of 29 trees, including nine mahogany and flame trees at the Plaza de Roma fronting Manila Cathedral.\n\nThe Department of Environment and Natural Resources reported that Harper, as head of the Intramuros Administration, sought a permit in May 2008 to remove trees at the park so that the area could be landscaped and developed and to \"replace [the trees] with historically appropriate trees which would not block the facade of Manila Cathedral.\"\n\nHarper responded that she had not ordered the trees cut, but rather asked a contractor to move the trees to another part of the park. She said that a subordinate had mistakenly given approval for the trees to be cut.\n\n"}
{"id": "52688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52688", "title": "Baroque painting", "text": "Baroque painting\n\nBaroque painting is the painting associated with the Baroque cultural movement. The movement is often identified with Absolutism, the Counter Reformation and Catholic Revival, but the existence of important Baroque art and architecture in non-absolutist and Protestant states throughout Western Europe underscores its widespread popularity.\n\nBaroque painting encompasses a great range of styles, as most important and major painting during the period beginning around 1600 and continuing throughout the 17th century, and into the early 18th century is identified today as Baroque painting. In its most typical manifestations, Baroque art is characterized by great drama, rich, deep colour, and intense light and dark shadows, but the classicism of French Baroque painters like Poussin and Dutch genre painters such as Vermeer are also covered by the term, at least in English. As opposed to Renaissance art, which usually showed the moment before an event took place, Baroque artists chose the most dramatic point, the moment when the action was occurring: Michelangelo, working in the High Renaissance, shows his David composed and still before he battles Goliath; Bernini's Baroque David is caught in the act of hurling the stone at the giant. Baroque art was meant to evoke emotion and passion instead of the calm rationality that had been prized during the Renaissance.\n\nAmong the greatest painters of the Baroque period are Velázquez, Caravaggio, Rembrandt, Rubens, Poussin, and Vermeer. Caravaggio is an heir of the humanist painting of the High Renaissance. His realistic approach to the human figure, painted directly from life and dramatically spotlit against a dark background, shocked his contemporaries and opened a new chapter in the history of painting. Baroque painting often dramatizes scenes using chiaroscuro light effects; this can be seen in works by Rembrandt, Vermeer, Le Nain and La Tour.\nThe Flemish painter Anthony van Dyck developed a graceful but imposing portrait style that was very influential, especially in England.\n\nThe prosperity of 17th century Holland led to an enormous production of art by large numbers of painters who were mostly highly specialized and painted only genre scenes, landscapes, Still-lifes, portraits or History paintings. Technical standards were very high, and Dutch Golden Age painting established a new repertoire of subjects that was very influential until the arrival of Modernism.\n\nThe Council of Trent (1545–63), in which the Roman Catholic Church answered many questions of internal reform raised by both Protestants and by those who had remained inside the Catholic Church, addressed the representational arts in a short and somewhat oblique passage in its decrees. This was subsequently interpreted and expounded by a number of clerical authors like Molanus, who demanded that paintings and sculptures in church contexts should depict their subjects clearly and powerfully, and with decorum, without the stylistic airs of Mannerism.\nThis return toward a populist conception of the function of ecclesiastical art is seen by many art historians as driving the innovations of Caravaggio and the Carracci brothers, all of whom were working (and competing for commissions) in Rome around 1600, although unlike the Carracci, Caravaggio persistently was criticised for lack of decorum in his work.\nHowever, although religious painting, history painting, allegories, and portraits were still considered the most noble subjects, landscape, still life, and genre scenes were also becoming more common in Catholic countries, and were the main genres in Protestant ones.\n\nThe term \"Baroque\" was initially used with a derogatory meaning, to underline the excesses of its emphasis. Others derive it from the mnemonic term \"Baroco\" denoting, in logical \"Scholastica\", a supposedly laboured form of syllogism.\nIn particular, the term was used to describe its eccentric redundancy and noisy abundance of details, which sharply contrasted the clear and sober rationality of the Renaissance. It was first rehabilitated by the Swiss-born art historian, Heinrich Wölfflin (1864–1945) in his \"Renaissance und Barock\" (1888); Wölfflin identified the Baroque as \"movement imported into mass\", an art antithetic to Renaissance art. He did not make the distinctions between Mannerism and Baroque that modern writers do, and he ignored the later phase, the academic Baroque that lasted into the 18th century. Writers in French and English did not begin to treat Baroque as a respectable study until Wölfflin's influence had made German scholarship pre-eminent.\n\nLed by Italy, Mediterranean countries, slowly followed by most of the Holy Roman Empire in Germany and Central Europe, generally adopted a full-blooded Baroque approach. \n\nA rather different art developed out of northern realist traditions in 17th century Dutch Golden Age painting, which had very little religious art, and little history painting, instead playing a crucial part in developing secular genres such as still life, genre paintings of everyday scenes, and landscape painting. While the Baroque nature of Rembrandt's art is clear, the label is less use for Vermeer and many other Dutch artists. Most Dutch art lacks the idealization and love of splendour typical of much Baroque work, including the neighbouring Flemish Baroque painting which shared a part in Dutch trends, while also continuing to produce the traditional categories in a more clearly Baroque style.\n\nIn France a dignified and graceful classicism gave a distinctive flavour to Baroque painting, where the later 17th century is also regarded as a golden age for painting. Two of the most important artists, Nicolas Poussin and Claude Lorrain, remained based in Rome, where their work, almost all in easel paintings, was much appreciated by Italian as well as French patrons.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2377491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377491", "title": "Big History", "text": "Big History\n\nBig History is an academic discipline which examines history from the Big Bang to the present. Big History resists specialization, and searches for universal patterns or trends. It examines long time frames using a multidisciplinary approach based on combining numerous disciplines from science and the humanities, and explores human existence in the context of this bigger picture. It integrates studies of the cosmos, Earth, life, and humanity using empirical evidence to explore cause-and-effect relations, and is taught at universities and secondary schools often using web-based interactive presentations.\n\nAccording to historian David Christian, who has been credited with coining the term \"Big History\", the intellectual movement is made of an \"unusual coalition of scholars\". Some historians have expressed skepticism towards \"scientific history\" and argue that the claims of Big History are unoriginal. Others support the scientific merit but point out that cosmology and natural history have been studied since the Renaissance, and that the new term, Big History, continues such work.\n\nBig History examines the past using numerous time scales, from the Big Bang to modernity, unlike conventional history courses which typically begin with the introduction of farming and civilization, or with the beginning of written records. It explores common themes and patterns. Courses generally do not focus on humans until more than halfway through, and, unlike conventional history courses, there is not much focus on kingdoms or civilizations or wars or national borders. If conventional history focuses on human civilization with humankind at the center, Big History focuses on the universe and shows how humankind fits within this framework and places human history in the wider context of the universe's history.\n\nUnlike conventional history, Big History tends to go rapidly through detailed historical eras such as the Renaissance or Ancient Egypt. It draws on the latest findings from biology, astronomy, geology, climatology, prehistory, archaeology, anthropology, evolutionary biology, chemistry, psychology, hydrology, geography, paleontology, ancient history, physics, economics, cosmology, natural history, and population and environmental studies as well as standard history. One teacher explained:\n\nBig History arose from a desire to go beyond the specialized and self-contained fields that emerged in the 20th century. It tries to grasp history as a whole, looking for common themes across multiple time scales in history. Conventional history typically begins with the invention of writing, and is limited to past events relating directly to the human race. Big Historians point out that this limits study to the past 5,000 years and neglects the much longer time when humans existed on Earth. Henry Kannberg sees Big History as being a product of the Information Age, a stage in history itself following speech, writing, and printing. Big History covers the formation of the universe, stars, and galaxies, and includes the beginning of life as well as the period of several hundred thousand years when humans were hunter-gatherers. It sees the transition to civilization as a gradual one, with many causes and effects, rather than an abrupt transformation from uncivilized static cavemen to dynamic civilized farmers. An account in \"The Boston Globe\" describes what it polemically asserts to be the conventional \"history\" view:\n\nBig History, in contrast to conventional history, has more of an interdisciplinary basis. Advocates sometimes view conventional history as \"microhistory\" or \"shallow history\", and note that three-quarters of historians specialize in understanding the last 250 years while ignoring the \"long march of human existence.\" However, one historian disputed that the discipline of history has overlooked the big view, and described the \"grand narrative\" of Big History as a \"cliché that gets thrown around a lot.\" One account suggested that conventional history had the \"sense of grinding the nuts into an ever finer powder.\" It emphasizes long-term trends and processes rather than history-making individuals or events. Historian Dipesh Chakrabarty of the University of Chicago suggested that Big History was less politicized than contemporary history because it enables people to \"take a step back.\" It uses more kinds of evidence than the standard historical written records, such as fossils, tools, household items, pictures, structures, ecological changes and genetic variations.\n\nCritics of Big History, including sociologist Frank Furedi, have deemed the discipline an \"anti-humanist turn of history.\" The Big History narrative has also been challenged for failing to engage with the methodology of the conventional history discipline. According to historian and educator Sam Wineburg of Stanford University, Big History eschews the interpretation of texts in favor of a purely scientific approach, thus becoming \"less history and more of a kind of evolutionary biology or quantum physics.\"\n\nProfessor David Christian argued that the recent past is only understandable in terms of the \"whole 14-billion-year span of time itself.\" Big History seeks to retell the \"human story\" in light of scientific advances by such methods as radiocarbon dating and genetic analysis. In some instances, it uses mathematical modeling to explore interactions between long-term trends in sociological systems, and it has led to the coining of the term cliodynamics by Peter Turchin of the University of Connecticut to describe how mathematical models might explain events such as the growth of empires, social discontent, and the collapse of nations. It explores the mix of individual action and social and environmental forces, according to one view. While conventional history might see an invention such as sharper spear points as being deliberately created by some smart humans, and then copied by other humans, a Big History perspective might see sharper spear points as accidental, and then natural evolutionary processes enabled their users to be better hunters, even if they did not understand why this was the case. It seeks to discover repeating patterns during the 13.8 billion years since the Big Bang. For example, one pattern is that \"chaos catalyzes creativity\", such as the asteroid impact wiping out the dinosaurs.\n\nBig History makes comparisons based on different time scales, or what David Christian calls \"the play of scales\", and notes similarities and differences between the human, geological, and cosmological scales. Christian believes such \"radical shifts in perspective\" will yield \"new insights into familiar historical problems, from the nature/nurture debate to environmental history to the fundamental nature of change itself.\" It shows how human existence has been changed by both human-made and natural factors: for example, according to natural processes which happened more than four billion years ago, iron emerged from the remains of an exploding star and, as a result, humans could use this hard metal to forge weapons for hunting and war. The discipline addresses such questions as \"How did we get here?,\" \"How do we decide what to believe?,\" \"How did Earth form?,\" and \"What is life?\" It offers a \"grand tour of all the major scientific paradigms.\" According to one view, it helps students to become scientifically literate quickly.\n\nCosmic evolution, the scientific study of universal change, is closely related to Big History (as are the allied subjects of the epic of evolution and astrobiology); some researchers regard cosmic evolution as broader than Big History since the latter mainly (and rightfully) examines the specific historical trek from Big Bang → Milky Way → Sun → Earth → humanity. Cosmic evolution, while fully addressing all complex systems (and not merely those that led to humans), which is also sometimes called cosmological history or universal history, has been taught and researched for decades, mostly by astronomers and astrophysicists. This Big-Bang-to-humankind scenario well preceded the subject that some historians began calling Big History in the 1990s. Cosmic evolution is an intellectual framework that offers a grand synthesis of the many varied changes in the assembly and composition of radiation, matter, and life throughout the history of the universe. While engaging the time-honored queries of who we are and whence we came, this interdisciplinary subject attempts to unify the sciences within the entirety of natural history—a single, inclusive scientific narrative of the origin and evolution of all material things over ~14 billion years, from the origin of the universe to the present day on Earth.\n\nThe roots of the idea of cosmic evolution extend back millennia. Ancient Greek philosophers of the fifth century BCE, most notably Heraclitus, are celebrated for their reasoned claims that all things change. Early modern speculation about cosmic evolution began more than a century ago, including the broad insights of Robert Chambers, Herbert Spencer, and Lawrence Henderson. Only in the mid-20th century was the cosmic-evolutionary scenario articulated as a research paradigm to include empirical studies of galaxies, stars, planets, and life—in short, an expansive agenda that combines physical, biological, and cultural evolution. Harlow Shapley widely articulated the idea of cosmic evolution (often calling it \"cosmography\") in public venues at mid-century, and NASA embraced it in the late 20th century as part of its more limited astrobiology program. Carl Sagan, Eric Chaisson, Hubert Reeves, Erich Jantsch, and Preston Cloud, among others, extensively championed cosmic evolution at roughly the same time around 1980. This extremely broad subject now continues to be richly formulated as both a technical research program and a scientific worldview for the 21st century.\n\nCosmic evolution can elicit controversy for several reasons: evolution of any kind inherently attracts detractors, especially among religious fundamentalists; cosmic evolution addresses universal and human origins, which often elevate emotions; it challenges age-old ideas about life's sense of place in the cosmos; it embraces change, which many people dislike or distrust; it welcomes a broad interpretation of the concept of evolution, replacing the idea of evolution exclusive to life, which some biologists prefer; it proposes a sweeping, interdisciplinary worldview based on rationality and empiricism, which, despite its experimental tests, some find intellectually arrogant.\n\nOne popular collection of scholarly materials on cosmic evolution is based on teaching and research that has been underway at Harvard University since the mid-1970s\n\nCosmic evolution is a quantitative subject, whereas big history typically is not; this is because cosmic evolution is practiced mostly by natural scientists, while big history by social scholars. These two subjects, closely allied and overlapping, benefit from each other; cosmic evolutionists tend to treat universal history linearly, thus humankind enters their story only at the most very recent times, whereas big historians tend to stress humanity and its many cultural achievements, granting human beings a larger part of their story. One can compare and contrast these different emphases by watching two short movies portraying the Big-Bang-to-humankind narrative, one animating time linearly, and the other capturing time (actually look-back time) logarithmically; in the former, humans enter this 14-minute movie in the last second, while in the latter we appear much earlier—yet both are correct.\n\nThese different treatments of time over ~14 billion years, each with different emphases on historical content, are further clarified by noting that some cosmic evolutionists divide the whole narrative into three phases and seven epochs:\nThis contrasts with the approach used by some big historians who divide the narrative into many more thresholds, as noted in the discussion at the end of this section below. Yet another telling of the Big-Bang-to-humankind story is one that emphasizes the earlier universe, particularly the growth of particles, galaxies, and large-scale cosmic structure, such as in physical cosmology.\n\nNotable among quantitative efforts to describe cosmic evolution are Eric Chaisson's research efforts to describe the concept of energy flow through open, thermodynamic systems, including galaxies, stars, planets, life, and society. The observed increase of energy rate density (energy/time/mass) among a whole host of complex systems is one useful way to explain the rise of complexity in an expanding universe that still obeys the cherished second law of thermodynamics and thus continues to accumulate net entropy. As such, ordered material systems—from buzzing bees and redwood trees to shining stars and thinking beings—are viewed as temporary, local islands of order in a vast, global sea of disorder. A recent review article, which is especially directed toward big historians, summarizes much of this empirical effort over the past decade.\n\nOne striking finding of such complexity studies is the apparently ranked order among all known material systems in the universe. Although the \"absolute\" energy in astronomical systems greatly exceeds that of humans, and although the mass densities of stars, planets, bodies, and brains are all comparable, the energy rate \"density\" for humans and modern human society are approximately a million times greater than for stars and galaxies. For example, the Sun emits a vast luminosity, 4x10 erg/s (equivalent to nearly a billion billion billion watt light bulb), but it also has a huge mass, 2x10 g; thus each second an amount of energy equaling only 2 ergs passes through each gram of this star. In contrast to any star, more energy flows through each gram of a plant's leaf during photosynthesis, and much more (nearly a million times) rushes through each gram of a human brain while thinking (~20W/1350g).\n\nCosmic evolution is more than a subjective, qualitative assertion of \"one damn thing after another\". This inclusive scientific worldview constitutes an objective, quantitative approach toward deciphering much of what comprises organized, material Nature. Its uniform, consistent philosophy of approach toward all complex systems demonstrates that the basic differences, both within and among many varied systems, are of degree, not of kind. And, in particular, it suggests that optimal ranges of energy rate density grant opportunities for the evolution of complexity; those systems able to adjust, adapt, or otherwise take advantage of such energy flows survive and prosper, while other systems adversely affected by too much or too little energy are non-randomly eliminated.\n\nFred Spier is foremost among those big historians who have found the concept of energy flows useful, suggesting that Big History is the rise and demise of complexity on all scales, from sub-microscopic particles to vast galaxy clusters, and not least many biological and cultural systems in between.\n\nDavid Christian, in an 18-minute TED talk, described some of the basics of the Big History course. Christian describes each stage in the progression towards greater complexity as a \"threshold moment\" when things become more complex, but they also become more fragile and mobile. Some of Christian's threshold stages are:\n\nChristian elaborated that more complex systems are more fragile, and that while collective learning is a powerful force to advance humanity in general, it is not clear that humans are in charge of it, and it is possible in his view for humans to destroy the biosphere with the powerful weapons that have been invented.\n\nIn the 2008 lecture series through \"The Teaching Company's Great Courses\" entitled \"Big History: The Big Bang, Life on Earth, and the Rise of Humanity\", Christian explains Big History in terms of eight thresholds of increasing complexity:\n\n\nA theme in Big History is what has been termed Goldilocks conditions or the Goldilocks principle, which describes how \"circumstances must be right for any type of complexity to form or continue to exist,\" as emphasized by Spier in his recent book. For humans, bodily temperatures can neither be too hot nor too cold; for life to form on a planet, it can neither have too much nor too little energy from sunlight. Stars require sufficient quantities of hydrogen, sufficiently packed together under tremendous gravity, to cause nuclear fusion.\n\nChristian suggests that the universe creates complexity when these Goldilocks conditions are met, that is, when things are not too hot or cold, not too fast or slow. For example, life began not in solids (molecules are stuck together, preventing the right kinds of associations) or gases (molecules move too fast to enable favorable associations) but in liquids such as water which permitted the right kinds of interactions at the right speeds.\n\nSomewhat in contrast, Chaisson has maintained for well more than a decade that \"organizational complexity is mostly governed by the \"optimum\" use of energy—not too little as to starve a system, yet not too much as to destroy it\" (italics in the original published paper). Neither maximum energy principles nor minimum entropy states are likely relevant, and appeals to \"Goldilocks principles\" (or other such fairy tales) are unnecessary to appreciate the emergence of complexity in Nature writ large.\n\nAdvances in particular sciences such as archaeology, gene mapping, and evolutionary ecology have enabled historians to gain new insights into the early origins of humans, despite the lack of written sources. One account suggested that proponents of Big History were trying to \"upend\" the conventional practice in historiography of relying on written records.\n\nBig History proponents suggest that humans have been affecting climate change throughout history, by such methods as slash-and-burn agriculture, although past modifications have been on a lesser scale than in recent years during the Industrial Revolution.\n\nA book by Daniel Lord Smail in 2008 suggested that history was a continuing process of humans learning to self-modify our mental states by using stimulants such as coffee and tobacco, as well as other means such as religious rites or romance novels. His view is that culture and biology are highly intertwined, such that cultural practices may cause human brains to be wired differently from those in different societies.\n\nBig History is more likely than conventional history to be taught with interactive \"video-heavy\" websites without textbooks, according to one account. The discipline has benefited from having new ways of presenting themes and concepts in new formats, often supplemented by Internet and computer technology. For example, the ChronoZoom project is a way to explore the 14 billion year history of the universe in an interactive website format. It was described in one account:\n\nIn 2012, the History channel showed the film \"History of the World in Two Hours\". It showed how dinosaurs effectively dominated mammals for 160 million years until an asteroid impact wiped them out. One report suggested the History channel had won a sponsorship from StanChart to develop a Big History program entitled \"Mankind\". In 2013 the History channel's new H2 network debuted the 10-part series \"Big History\", narrated by Bryan Cranston and featuring David Christian and an assortment of historians, scientists and related experts. Each episode centered on a major Big History topic such as salt, mountains, cold, flight, water, meteors and megastructures.\n\nWhile the emerging field of Big History in its present state is generally seen as having emerged in the past two decades beginning around 1990, there have been numerous precedents going back almost 150 years. In the mid-19th century, Alexander von Humboldt's book \"Cosmos\", and Robert Chambers' 1844 book \"Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation\" were seen as early precursors to the field. In a sense, Darwin's theory of evolution was, in itself, an attempt to explain a biological phenomenon by examining longer term cause-and-effect processes. In the first half of the 20th century, secular biologist Julian Huxley originated the term \"evolutionary humanism\", while around the same time the French Jesuit paleontologist Pierre Teilhard de Chardin examined links between cosmic evolution and a tendency towards complexification (including human consciousness), while envisaging compatibility between cosmology, evolution, and theology. In the mid and later 20th century, \"The Ascent of Man\" by Jacob Bronowski examined history from a multidisciplinary perspective. Later, Eric Chaisson explored the subject of cosmic evolution quantitatively in terms of energy rate density, and the astronomer Carl Sagan wrote \"Cosmos\". Thomas Berry, a cultural historian, and the academic Brian Swimme explored meaning behind myths and encouraged academics to explore themes beyond organized religion.\n\nThe field continued to evolve from interdisciplinary studies during the mid-20th century, stimulated in part by the Cold War and the Space Race. Some early efforts were courses in \"Cosmic Evolution\" at Harvard University in the United States, and \"Universal History\" in the Soviet Union. One account suggested that the notable Earthrise photo, taken during a lunar orbit by the spacecraft Apollo 8, which showed Earth as a small blue and white ball behind a stark and desolate lunar landscape, not only stimulated the environmental movement but also caused an upsurge of interdisciplinary interest. The French historian Fernand Braudel examined daily life with investigations of \"large-scale historical forces like geology and climate\". Physiologist Jared Diamond in his book \"Guns, Germs, and Steel\" examined the interplay between geography and human evolution; for example, he argued that the horizontal shape of the Eurasian continent enabled human civilizations to advance more quickly than the vertical north-south shape of the American continent, because it enabled greater competition and information-sharing among peoples of the relatively same climate.\n\nIn the 1970s, scholars in the United States including geologist Preston Cloud of the University of Minnesota, astronomer G. Siegfried Kutter at Evergreen State College in Washington state, and Harvard University astrophysicists George B. Field and Eric Chaisson started synthesizing knowledge to form a \"science-based history of everything\", although each of these scholars emphasized somewhat their own particular specializations in their courses and books. In 1980, the Austrian philosopher Erich Jantsch wrote \"The Self-Organizing Universe\" which viewed history in terms of what he called \"process structures\". There was an experimental course taught by John Mears at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas, and more formal courses at the university level began to appear.\n\nIn 1991 Clive Ponting wrote \"A Green History of the World: The Environment and the Collapse of Great Civilizations\". His analysis did not begin with the Big Bang, but his chapter \"Foundations of History\" explored the influences of large-scale geological and astronomical forces over a broad time period.\n\nSometimes the terms \"Deep History\" and \"Big History\" are interchangeable, but sometimes \"Deep History\" simply refers to history going back several hundred thousand years or more without the other senses of being a movement within history itself.\n\nOne exponent is David Christian of Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia. He read widely in diverse fields in science, and believed that much was missing from the general study of history. His first university-level course was offered in 1989. He developed a college course beginning with the Big Bang to the present in which he collaborated with numerous colleagues from diverse fields in science and the humanities and the social sciences. This course eventually became a Teaching Company course entitled \"Big History: The Big Bang, Life on Earth, and the Rise of Humanity\", with 24 hours of lectures, which appeared in 2008.\n\nSince the 1990s, other universities began to offer similar courses. In 1994 at the University of Amsterdam and the Eindhoven University of Technology, college courses were offered. In 1996, Fred Spier wrote \"The Structure of Big History\". Spier looked at structured processes which he termed \"regimes\":\n\nChristian's course caught the attention of philanthropist Bill Gates, who discussed with him how to turn Big History into a high school-level course. Gates said about David Christian:\n\nBy 2002, a dozen college courses on Big History had sprung up around the world. Cynthia Stokes Brown initiated Big History at the Dominican University of California, and she wrote \"Big History: From the Big Bang to the Present.\" In 2010, Dominican University of California launched the world's first Big History program to be required of all first-year students, as part of the school's general education track. This program, directed by Mojgan Behmand, includes a one-semester survey of Big History, and an interdisciplinary second-semester course exploring the Big History metanarrative through the lens of a particular discipline or subject. A course description reads:\n\nThe Dominican faculty's approach is to synthesize the disparate threads of Big History thought, in order to teach the content, develop critical thinking and writing skills, and prepare students to wrestle with the philosophical implications of the Big History metanarrative. In 2015, University of California Press published \"Teaching Big History\", a comprehensive pedagogical guide for teaching Big History, edited by Richard B. Simon, Mojgan Behmand, and Thomas Burke, and written by the Dominican faculty.\nBarry Rodrigue, at the University of Southern Maine, established the first general education course and the first online version, which has drawn students from around the world. The University of Queensland in Australia offers an undergraduate course entitled \"Global History\", required for all history majors, which \"surveys how powerful forces and factors at work on large time-scales have shaped human history\". By 2011, 50 professors around the world have offered courses. In 2012, one report suggested that Big History was being practiced as a \"coherent form of research and teaching\" by hundreds of academics from different disciplines.\nThere are efforts to bring Big History to younger students. In 2008, Christian and his colleagues began developing a course for secondary school students. In 2011, a pilot high school course was taught to 3,000 kids in 50 high schools worldwide. In 2012, there were 87 schools, with 50 in the United States, teaching Big History, with the pilot program set to double in 2013 for students in the ninth and tenth grades, and even in one middle school. The subject is a STEM course at one high school.\n\nThere are initiatives to make Big History a required standard course for university students throughout the world. An education project founded by philanthropist Bill Gates from his personal funds was launched in Australia and the United States, to offer a free online version of the course to high school students.\n\nCurrently, Big History is a consolidated academic field that is giving rise to new views and epistemological approaches, especially in Latin America and the Caribbean, whose decolonial vision of history, economics and science has opened new questions. In this sense, the transdisciplinary and biomimetics research of Javier Collado represents an ecology of knowledge between scientific knowledge and the ancestral wisdom of native peoples, such as Indigenous peoples in Ecuador. This transdisciplinary vision integrates and unifies diverse epistemes that are in, between, and beyond the scientific disciplines, that is, it includes ancestral wisdom, spirituality, art, emotions, mystical experiences and other dimensions forgotten in the history of science, specially by the positivist approach. In approaching the Big History from the complexity sciences, the transdisciplinary methodology seeks to understand the interconnections of the human race with the different levels of reality that co-exist in nature and in the cosmos, and this includes mystical and spiritual experiences, very present in the rituals of shamanism with ayahuasca and other sacred plants. The common denominator of all indigenous and aboriginal ancestral worldviews is the spiritual and ecological conception that structures their social organizations, which are in harmony and respect with the different forms of life that exist on our planet. In the same way that Fritjof Capra carried out an analysis of the parallels between modern physics and Eastern mysticism, the teaching of the Big History in universities of Brazil, Ecuador, Colombia, and Argentina is nourished by the worldview of their ancestor to analyze the parallels between the scientific discoveries and the original knowledge of the native and indigenous peoples.\n\nThe International Big History Association (IBHA) was founded at the Coldigioco Geological Observatory in Coldigioco, Marche, Italy, on 20 August 2010. Its headquarters is located at Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Michigan, United States. Its inaugural gathering in 2012 was described as \"big news\" in a report in \"The Huffington Post\".\n\nAcademics involved with the concept include:\n\n"}
{"id": "13671752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13671752", "title": "Chronicle of Nantes", "text": "Chronicle of Nantes\n\nChronicle of Nantes (Latin: \"Chronicon Namnetense\", French: \"Chronique de Nantes\") is an eleventh-century Latin chronicle of history extending from 570 to about 1049 AD. The original manuscript, kept in the city of Nantes, has not survived, but there exist: \n\nMerlet presented reasons for dating the Chronicle of Nantes to the 1050s, and detected the presence of charters from the cathedral archives of Tours and Nantes, and annals and narratives in the unknown author's source materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "56084137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56084137", "title": "Conall Mag Eochagáin", "text": "Conall Mag Eochagáin\n\nConall Mag Eochagáin (also known as Conall Mac Eochagáin, and in Anglicised forms as Conall MacGeoghegan, also known as Conall Mac Geoghegan) \"fl.\" 1620-1640, head of his lineage, was a historian and translator from Lismoyny, Co. Westmeath. In 1627, he translated \"Annals of Clonmacnoise\" into English, and thus gaining him the title \"Conall the Historian\" .\n\nMag Eochagáinn was a direct Geoghegan descendent of Niall of the Nine Hostages – specifically from the branch of Fiachu mac Néill.\n\nHis paternal grandmother, Gyles \"Shiela\" O'Dempsey was sister to Terence O'Dempsey, 1st Viscount Clanmalier.\n\nIt is speculated that he was born in 1592, in Lismoyny (Co. Westmeath), near Clara, Co. Offaly, to Anne Fitzgerald (or Fitz Thomas; \"d.\" 1580), and Neal/Niall Mag Eochagáin, brother of Roche MacGeoghegan.\n\nHis wife is thought to have been Margaret Coughlin – his only known sons being Conla, husband of Marian Molloy (daughter of Art M’Cahir Molloy, of Ralehyn), and Anthony, Bishop of Meath. If this were the case, that would make him a common ancestor of many Geoghegans and Gahagans.\n\nHe died in 1644.\n\nThe \"Annals of Clonmacnoise\" is also known as \"Mageoghagan’s Book\" in honor of MacGeoghegan's contributions to its translation.\n\nMag Eochagáin dedicated this translation to his brother-in-law, Toirdhealbhach Mac Cochláin (Terrence Coughlin), whose family was among the last to uphold and practice native Gaelic Irish customs.\n\nThe translation was completed on April 20, 1627 in the Castle of Lemanaghan in County Offaly. The original manuscript of MacGeoghegan's translation is lost, but there are several copies of it in both the Library of Trinity College and in the British Museum.\n\nThe original work was in Irish Gaelic. Mag Eochagáin more than once refers \"to the ould Irish book out of which he wrote, to the old Irish book which he translates, out of which many leaves were lost or stolen..\" MacGeoghegan seems to have preserved the value of the original Gaelic phraseology and rendered it every justice as far as we can determine in the absence of the original manuscript.\n\n"}
{"id": "8159490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8159490", "title": "County of Vasconia Citerior", "text": "County of Vasconia Citerior\n\nThe County of Vasconia Citerior (literally, the \"nearer Basque country\") was a medieval domain attested as of 824. It may have comprised the lands between the western Pyrenees and the river Adour.\n\nAfter Pepin the Short's war on Aquitaine, Charlemagne started Frankish penetration into the Duchy of Vasconia (778) by taking the Church on his side and appointing Frankish and Burgundian counts loyal to him, even creating new counties on Vasconia’s lands (Fezensac), or expanding existing ones (Toulouse), so fragmenting the previous autochthonous territorial and political unity. The territory farther away from the Garonne was made into a county.\n\nThe Basque count (also cited as duke) Aznar Sanchez led the Carolingian expedition against Pamplona in 824, and was captured, but he was released years later for his kinship with the captors. The region to the north of the Pyrenees remained in a state of rebellion, and Aznar Sanchez, count of \"Hither Vasconia\", makes a comeback opposing Pepin I, but he was killed in 836 in confusing circumstances (\"died a horrible death\").\n\nHis brother Sancho II Sanchez (Sans Sancion) succeeded him. He opposed both Seguin's family based in the region of Bordeaux and central Frankish authority, both Pepin I and Louis the Pious, who were reluctant to acknowledge him Duke of Vasconia. Sancho supported Pepin II of Aquitaine until Sancho took over most of present-day Gascony, and eventually Charles the Bald confirmed him as duke of Vasconia (851). The county seems to have been re-incorporated to Gascony (Vasconia) with Sancho II Sanchez, but his lineage was broken soon after, and a new dynasty of Gascon Basque dukes seem to have taken over.\n\nWhile records on the region of the Adour are scanty thereafter for the next 150 years, in 886 Garcia II Sanchez is cited with the title \"comes et marchio in limitibus oceani\" (\"count and margrave to the limits of the ocean\"). Vikings are attested during this period as raiding upstream the banks of the Adour, destroying also monasteries not heard of thereafter. The Norsemen stationed themselves at the mouth of the Adour in or next to Bayonne, and in other coastal areas, until they were definitely defeated by William II Sanchez of Gascony (982). In 1020, the County of Labourd and Bayonne emerged for the first time in the same area as a result of a treaty between Pamplona and Gascony.\n\n"}
{"id": "48427460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48427460", "title": "David Englander", "text": "David Englander\n\nDavid Englander (3 June 1949 – 7 April 1999) was a British historian of labour and poverty, and an authority on the work of Charles Booth and Jewish immigration to Britain.\n\nDavid Englander was born in Whitechapel, London, on 3 June 1949, the son of a cabinet-maker. He was not successful at school until he came under the influence of inspiring teachers who encouraged him to apply for university. He graduated from Warwick University in 1970 in history and politics, where he was influenced by the communist historian E.P. Thompson.\n\nEnglander studied at London University's Institute of Education and subsequently taught history at Dame Alice Owen's School. In 1972, he returned to Warwick University where he completed his MA and PhD. In 1976, he was a junior research fellow at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. He joined the history department of the Open University in 1979 where he spent the rest of his career.\n\nEnglander was an authority on the work of the social researcher and reformer Charles Booth, and set up the Charles Booth Centre for the History of Social Investigation at the Open University. He created a CD-Rom database of the Booth Poverty Notebooks, and an undergraduate course on Booth's work.\n\nEnglander married fellow historian Rosemary O'Day, and acquired a step son. The couple had two sons together and co-edited several books.\n\nEnglander died on 7 April 1999. He had been suffering from cancer. A conference on \"The History of Social Investigation\" was held at the Open University in 2005 in his memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "10091367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10091367", "title": "Dimitris Psathas", "text": "Dimitris Psathas\n\nDimitris Psathas (; 1907-13 November 1979) was a famous modern Greek satirist and playwright. He was born in Trabzon of Pontos in 1907 and died in Athens in 1979.\n\nHe went to Athens in 1923 and finished his studies whereby he devoted himself to both journalism and the theatre. In 1937, he published his first book \"Justice is in a good mood\" and the next year his next book \"Justice is in a bad mood\". However, he became widely known with his book \"Madam Sousou\". He wrote many theatrical plays with great success. He also wrote a 500-page historical chronicle about the resistance of his compatriots entitled \"Land of Pontos\" in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "828043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=828043", "title": "Dixie Professor of Ecclesiastical History", "text": "Dixie Professor of Ecclesiastical History\n\nThe Dixie Professorship of Ecclesiastical History is one of the senior professorships in history at the University of Cambridge.\n\nLord Mayor of London in the 16th century, Sir Wolstan Dixie, left funds to found both scholarships and fellowships at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. In 1878 the fellowships were abolished and replaced by the professorship that still bears his name.\n\n"}
{"id": "10671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10671", "title": "Friedrich Nietzsche", "text": "Friedrich Nietzsche\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche (; ; 15 October 1844 – 25 August 1900) was a German philosopher, cultural critic, composer, poet, philologist, and a Latin and Greek scholar whose work has exerted a profound influence on Western philosophy and modern intellectual history. He began his career as a classical philologist before turning to philosophy. He became the youngest ever to hold the Chair of Classical Philology at the University of Basel in 1869 at the age of 24. Nietzsche resigned in 1879 due to health problems that plagued him most of his life; he completed much of his core writing in the following decade. In 1889 at age 44, he suffered a collapse and afterward, a complete loss of his mental faculties. He lived his remaining years in the care of his mother until her death in 1897 and then with his sister Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche. Nietzsche died in 1900.\n\nNietzsche's body of work touched a wide range of topics, including art, philology, history, religion, tragedy, culture and science. His early inspiration was drawn from figures such as Arthur Schopenhauer, Richard Wagner and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. His writing spans philosophical polemics, poetry, cultural criticism and fiction while displaying a fondness for aphorism and irony. Prominent elements of his philosophy include his radical critique of truth in favor of perspectivism; his genealogical critique of religion and Christian morality and his related theory of master–slave morality; his aesthetic affirmation of existence in response to the \"death of God\" and the profound crisis of nihilism; his notion of the Apollonian and Dionysian; and his characterization of the human subject as the expression of competing wills, collectively understood as the will to power. He also developed influential concepts such as the \"\" and the doctrine of eternal return. In his later work, he became increasingly preoccupied with the creative powers of the individual to overcome social, cultural and moral contexts in pursuit of new values and aesthetic health.\n\nNietzsche was explicitly opposed to antisemitism and nationalism, although his sister attempted to associate his work with fascism and Nazism.\n\nNietzsche's thought enjoyed renewed popularity in the 1960s and his ideas have since had a profound impact on 20th and early-21st century thinkers across philosophy—especially in schools of continental philosophy such as existentialism, postmodernism and post-structuralism—as well as art, literature, psychology, politics and popular culture.\n\nBorn on 15 October 1844, Nietzsche grew up in the small town of Röcken, near Leipzig, in the Prussian Province of Saxony. He was named after King Friedrich Wilhelm IV of Prussia, who turned 49 on the day of Nietzsche's birth (Nietzsche later dropped his middle name Wilhelm). Nietzsche's parents, Carl Ludwig Nietzsche (1813–1849), a Lutheran pastor and former teacher; and (1826–1897), married in 1843, the year before their son's birth. They had two other children: a daughter, Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche, born in 1846; and a second son, Ludwig Joseph, born in 1848. Nietzsche's father died from a brain ailment in 1849; Ludwig Joseph died six months later at age two. The family then moved to Naumburg, where they lived with Nietzsche's maternal grandmother and his father's two unmarried sisters. After the death of Nietzsche's grandmother in 1856, the family moved into their own house, now Nietzsche-Haus, a museum and Nietzsche study centre.\nNietzsche attended a boys' school and then a private school, where he became friends with Gustav Krug, Rudolf Wagner and Wilhelm Pinder, all of whom came from highly respected families.\n\nIn 1854, he began to attend Domgymnasium in Naumburg. Because his father had worked for the state (as a pastor) the now-fatherless Nietzsche was offered a scholarship to study at the internationally recognized Schulpforta (the claim that Nietzsche was admitted on the strength of his academic competence has been debunked: his grades were nowhere near the top of the class). He transferred and studied there from 1858 to 1864, becoming friends with Paul Deussen and Carl von Gersdorff. He also found time to work on poems and musical compositions. Nietzsche led \"Germania\", a music and literature club, during his summers in Naumburg. At Schulpforta, Nietzsche received an important grounding in languages—Greek, Latin, Hebrew, and French—so as to be able to read important primary sources; he also experienced for the first time being away from his family life in a small-town conservative environment. His end-of-semester exams in March 1864 showed a 1 in Religion and German; a 2a in Greek and Latin; a 2b in French, History, and Physics; and a \"lackluster\" 3 in Hebrew and Mathematics.\n\nWhile at Pforta, Nietzsche had a penchant for pursuing subjects that were considered unbecoming. He became acquainted with the work of the then almost-unknown poet Friedrich Hölderlin, calling him \"my favorite poet\" and composing an essay in which he said that the mad poet raised consciousness to \"the most sublime ideality.\" The teacher who corrected the essay gave it a good mark but commented that Nietzsche should concern himself in the future with healthier, more lucid, and more \"German\" writers. Additionally, he became acquainted with Ernst Ortlepp, an eccentric, blasphemous, and often drunken poet who was found dead in a ditch weeks after meeting the young Nietzsche but who may have introduced Nietzsche to the music and writing of Richard Wagner. Perhaps under Ortlepp's influence, he and a student named Richter returned to school drunk and encountered a teacher, resulting in Nietzsche's demotion from first in his class and the end of his status as a prefect.\nAfter graduation in September 1864, Nietzsche commenced studies in theology and classical philology at the University of Bonn with hope of becoming a minister. For a short time he and Deussen became members of the Burschenschaft \"Frankonia\". After one semester (and to the anger of his mother), he stopped his theological studies and lost his faith. As early as his 1862 essay \"Fate and History\", Nietzsche had argued that historical research had discredited the central teachings of Christianity, but David Strauss's \"Life of Jesus\" also seems to have had a profound effect on the young man. In addition, Ludwig Feuerbach's \"The Essence of Christianity\" influenced young Nietzsche with its argument that people created God, and not the other way around. In June 1865, at the age of 20, Nietzsche wrote to his sister Elisabeth, who was deeply religious, a letter regarding his loss of faith. This letter contains the following statement:\nHence the ways of men part: if you wish to strive for peace of soul and pleasure, then believe; if you wish to be a devotee of truth, then inquire...\nNietzsche subsequently concentrated on studying philology under Professor Friedrich Wilhelm Ritschl, whom he followed to the University of Leipzig in 1865. There, he became close friends with his fellow student Erwin Rohde. Nietzsche's first philological publications appeared soon after.\n\nIn 1865, Nietzsche thoroughly studied the works of Arthur Schopenhauer. He owed the awakening of his philosophical interest to reading Schopenhauer's \"The World as Will and Representation\" and later admitted that Schopenhauer was one of the few thinkers whom he respected, dedicating the essay \"\" in the \"Untimely Meditations\" to him.\n\nIn 1866, he read Friedrich Albert Lange's \"History of Materialism\". Lange's descriptions of Kant's anti-materialistic philosophy, the rise of European Materialism, Europe's increased concern with science, Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, and the general rebellion against tradition and authority intrigued Nietzsche greatly. Nietzsche would ultimately argue the impossibility of an evolutionary explanation of the human aesthetic sense.\n\nIn 1867, Nietzsche signed up for one year of voluntary service with the Prussian artillery division in Naumburg. He was regarded as one of the finest riders among his fellow recruits, and his officers predicted that he would soon reach the rank of captain. However, in March 1868, while jumping into the saddle of his horse, Nietzsche struck his chest against the pommel and tore two muscles in his left side, leaving him exhausted and unable to walk for months. Consequently, Nietzsche turned his attention to his studies again, completing them in 1868 and meeting with Richard Wagner for the first time later that year.\n\nIn part because of Ritschl's support, Nietzsche received a remarkable offer in 1869 to become professor of classical philology at the University of Basel in Switzerland. He was only 24 years old and had neither completed his doctorate nor received a teaching certificate (\"habilitation\"). He was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Leipzig, again with Ritschl's support.\n\nDespite the fact that the offer came at a time when he was considering giving up philology for science, he accepted. To this day, Nietzsche is still among the youngest of the tenured Classics professors on record.\n\nNietzsche's 1870 projected doctoral thesis, \"Contribution toward the Study and the Critique of the Sources of Diogenes Laertius\" (\"Beiträge zur Quellenkunde und Kritik des Laertius Diogenes\"), examined the origins of the ideas of Diogenes Laërtius. Though never submitted, it was later published as a \"Gratulationsschrift\" (congratulatory publication) at Basel.\n\nBefore moving to Basel, Nietzsche renounced his Prussian citizenship: for the rest of his life he remained officially stateless.\n\nNevertheless, Nietzsche served in the Prussian forces during the Franco-Prussian War (1870–1871) as a medical orderly. In his short time in the military, he experienced much and witnessed the traumatic effects of battle. He also contracted diphtheria and dysentery. Walter Kaufmann speculates that he might also have contracted syphilis at a brothel along with his other infections at this time. On returning to Basel in 1870, Nietzsche observed the establishment of the German Empire and Otto von Bismarck's subsequent policies as an outsider and with a degree of skepticism regarding their genuineness. His inaugural lecture at the university was \"\". Nietzsche also met Franz Overbeck, a professor of theology who remained his friend throughout his life. Afrikan Spir, a little-known Russian philosopher responsible for the 1873 \"Thought and Reality\", and Nietzsche's colleague the famed historian Jacob Burckhardt, whose lectures Nietzsche frequently attended, began to exercise significant influence on him during this time.\n\nNietzsche had already met Richard Wagner in Leipzig in 1868 and later Wagner's wife, Cosima. Nietzsche admired both greatly and during his time at Basel frequently visited Wagner's house in Tribschen in Lucerne. The Wagners brought Nietzsche into their most intimate circle—including Franz Liszt, of whom Nietzsche colloquially described: \"Liszt or the art of running after women!\". Nietzsche enjoyed the attention he gave to the beginning of the Bayreuth Festival. In 1870, he gave Cosima Wagner the manuscript of \"The Genesis of the Tragic Idea\" as a birthday gift. In 1872, Nietzsche published his first book, \"The Birth of Tragedy\". However, his colleagues within his field, including Ritschl, expressed little enthusiasm for the work in which Nietzsche eschewed the classical philologic method in favor of a more speculative approach. In his polemic \"Philology of the Future\", Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff dampened the book's reception and increased its notoriety. In response, Rohde (then a professor in Kiel) and Wagner came to Nietzsche's defense. Nietzsche remarked freely about the isolation he felt within the philological community and attempted unsuccessfully to transfer to a position in philosophy at Basel instead.\nIn 1873, Nietzsche began to accumulate notes that would be posthumously published as \"Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks\". Between 1873 and 1876, he published four separate long essays: \"David Strauss: the Confessor and the Writer\", \"On the Use and Abuse of History for Life\", \"Schopenhauer as Educator\" and \"Richard Wagner in Bayreuth\". These four later appeared in a collected edition under the title \"Untimely Meditations\". The essays shared the orientation of a cultural critique, challenging the developing German culture along lines suggested by Schopenhauer and Wagner. During this time in the circle of the Wagners, he met Malwida von Meysenbug and Hans von Bülow. He also began a friendship with Paul Rée, who in 1876 influenced him into dismissing the pessimism in his early writings. However, he was deeply disappointed by the Bayreuth Festival of 1876, where the banality of the shows and baseness of the public repelled him. He was also alienated by Wagner's championing of \"German culture\", which Nietzsche felt a contradiction in terms as well as by Wagner's celebration of his fame among the German public. All this contributed to his subsequent decision to distance himself from Wagner.\n\nWith the publication in 1878 of \"Human, All Too Human\" (a book of aphorisms ranging from metaphysics to morality to religion to gender studies), a new style of Nietzsche's work became clear, highly influenced by Afrikan Spir's \"Thought and Reality\" and reacting against the pessimistic philosophy of Wagner and Schopenhauer. Nietzsche's friendship with Deussen and Rohde cooled as well. In 1879, after a significant decline in health, Nietzsche had to resign his position at Basel. Since his childhood, various disruptive illnesses had plagued him, including moments of shortsightedness that left him nearly blind, migraine headaches, and violent indigestion. The 1868 riding accident and diseases in 1870 may have aggravated these persistent conditions, which continued to affect him through his years at Basel, forcing him to take longer and longer holidays until regular work became impractical.\n\nLiving off his pension from Basel and aid from friends, Nietzsche travelled frequently to find climates more conducive to his health and lived until 1889 as an independent author in different cities. He spent many summers in Sils Maria near St. Moritz in Switzerland. He spent his winters in the Italian cities of Genoa, Rapallo, and Turin and the French city of Nice. In 1881, when France occupied Tunisia, he planned to travel to Tunis to view Europe from the outside but later abandoned that idea, probably for health reasons. Nietzsche occasionally returned to Naumburg to visit his family, and, especially during this time, he and his sister had repeated periods of conflict and reconciliation.\n\nWhile in Genoa, Nietzsche's failing eyesight prompted him to explore the use of typewriters as a means of continuing to write. He is known to have tried using the Hansen Writing Ball, a contemporary typewriter device. In the end, a past student of his, Heinrich Köselitz or Peter Gast, became a sort of private secretary to Nietzsche. In 1876, Gast transcribed the crabbed, nearly illegible handwriting of Nietzsche for the first time with Richard Wagner in Bayreuth. He subsequently transcribed and proofread the galleys for almost all of Nietzsche's work from then on. On at least one occasion on 23 February 1880, the usually poor Gast received 200 marks from their mutual friend, Paul Rée. Gast was one of the very few friends Nietzsche allowed to criticize him. In responding most enthusiastically to \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", Gast did feel it necessary to point out that what were described as \"superfluous\" people were in fact quite necessary. He went on to list the number of people Epicurus, for example, had to rely on even to supply his simple diet of goat cheese.\n\nTo the end of his life, Gast and Overbeck remained consistently faithful friends. Malwida von Meysenbug remained like a motherly patron even outside the Wagner circle. Soon Nietzsche made contact with the music-critic Carl Fuchs. Nietzsche stood at the beginning of his most productive period. Beginning with \"Human, All Too Human\" in 1878, Nietzsche published one book or major section of a book each year until 1888, his last year of writing; that year, he completed five.\n\nIn 1882, Nietzsche published the first part of \"The Gay Science\". That year he also met Lou Andreas-Salomé, through Malwida von Meysenbug and Paul Rée.\n\nSalomé's mother took her to Rome when Salomé was 21. At a literary salon in the city, Salomé became acquainted with Paul Rée. Rée proposed marriage to her, but she instead proposed that they should live and study together as 'brother and sister', along with another man for company, where they would establish an academic commune. Rée accepted the idea, and suggested that they be joined by his friend Nietzsche. The two met Nietzsche in Rome in April 1882, and Nietzsche is believed to have instantly fallen in love with Salome, as Rée had done. Nietzsche asked Rée to propose marriage to Salome, which she rejected. She had been interested in Nietzsche as a friend, but not as a husband. Nietzsche nonetheless was content to join together with Rée and Salome touring through Switzerland and Italy together, planning their commune. The three traveled with Salomé's mother through Italy and considered where they would set up their \"Winterplan\" commune. This commune was intended to be set up in an abandoned monastery, but no suitable location was found. On 13 May, in Lucerne, when Nietzsche was alone with Salome, he earnestly proposed marriage to her again, which she rejected. He nonetheless was happy to continue with the plans for an academic commune.\n. After discovering the situation, Nietzsche's sister Elizabeth became determined to get Nietzsche away from the \"immoral woman\". \nNietzsche and Salomé spent the summer together in Tautenburg in Thuringia, often with Nietzsche's sister Elisabeth as a chaperone. Salomé reports that he asked her to marry him on three separate occasions and that she refused, though the reliability of her reports of events has come into question. Arriving in Leipzig, (Germany) in October, Salomé and Rée separated from Nietzsche after a falling-out between Nietzsche and Salomé, in which Salomé believed that Nietzsche was desperately in love with her.\n\nWhile the three spent a number of weeks together in Leipzig in October 1882, the following month Rée and Salome ditched Nietzsche, leaving for Stibbe without any plans to meet again. Nietzsche soon fell into a period of mental anguish, although he continued to write to Rée, stating \"We shall see one another from time to time, won't we?\" In later recriminations, Nietzsche would blame on separate occasions the failure in his attempts to woo Salome both on Salome, Rée, and on the intrigues of his sister (who had written letters to the family of Salome and Rée to disrupt the plans for the commune). Nietzsche wrote of the affair in 1883, that he now felt \"genuine hatred for my sister.\"\n\nAmidst renewed bouts of illness, living in near-isolation after a falling out with his mother and sister regarding Salomé, Nietzsche fled to Rapallo, where he wrote the first part of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" in only ten days.\nBy 1882, Nietzsche was taking huge doses of opium, but he was still having trouble sleeping. In 1883, while staying in Nice, he was writing out his own prescriptions for the sedative chloral hydrate, signing them \"Dr. Nietzsche\".\n\nAfter severing his philosophical ties with Schopenhauer (who was long dead and never met Nietzsche) and his social ties with Wagner, Nietzsche had few remaining friends. Now, with the new style of \"Zarathustra\", his work became even more alienating, and the market received it only to the degree required by politeness. Nietzsche recognized this and maintained his solitude, though he often complained about it. His books remained largely unsold. In 1885, he printed only 40 copies of the fourth part of \"Zarathustra\" and distributed only a fraction of these among close friends, including Helene von Druskowitz.\n\nIn 1883, he tried and failed to obtain a lecturing post at the University of Leipzig. It was made clear to him that, in view of his attitude towards Christianity and his concept of God, he had become effectively unemployable by any German university. The subsequent \"feelings of revenge and resentment\" embittered him: \"And hence my rage since I have grasped in the broadest possible sense what wretched means (the depreciation of my good name, my character, and my aims) \"suffice\" to take from me the trust of, and therewith the possibility of obtaining, pupils.\"\n\nIn 1886, Nietzsche broke with his publisher Ernst Schmeitzner, disgusted by his antisemitic opinions. Nietzsche saw his own writings as \"completely buried and unexhumeable in this anti-Semitic dump\" of Schmeitzner—associating the publisher with a movement that should be \"utterly rejected with cold contempt by every sensible mind\". He then printed \"Beyond Good and Evil\" at his own expense. He also acquired the publication rights for his earlier works and over the next year issued second editions of \"The Birth of Tragedy\", \"Human, All Too Human\", \"Daybreak\", and \"The Gay Science\" with new prefaces placing the body of his work in a more coherent perspective. Thereafter, he saw his work as completed for a time and hoped that soon a readership would develop. In fact, interest in Nietzsche's thought did increase at this time, if rather slowly and hardly perceptibly to him. During these years Nietzsche met Meta von Salis, Carl Spitteler, and Gottfried Keller.\n\nIn 1886, his sister Elisabeth married the antisemite Bernhard Förster and travelled to Paraguay to found Nueva Germania, a \"Germanic\" colony—a plan Nietzsche responded to with mocking laughter. Through correspondence, Nietzsche's relationship with Elisabeth continued through cycles of conflict and reconciliation, but they met again only after his collapse. He continued to have frequent and painful attacks of illness, which made prolonged work impossible.\n\nIn 1887, Nietzsche wrote the polemic \"On the Genealogy of Morality\". During the same year, he encountered the work of Fyodor Dostoyevsky, to whom he felt an immediate kinship. He also exchanged letters with Hippolyte Taine and Georg Brandes. Brandes, who had started to teach the philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard in the 1870s, wrote to Nietzsche asking him to read Kierkegaard, to which Nietzsche replied that he would come to Copenhagen and read Kierkegaard with him. However, before fulfilling this promise, he slipped too far into illness. In the beginning of 1888, Brandes delivered in Copenhagen one of the first lectures on Nietzsche's philosophy.\n\nAlthough Nietzsche had previously announced at the end of \"On the Genealogy of Morality\" a new work with the title \"The Will to Power: Attempt at a Revaluation of All Values\", he eventually seems to have abandoned this idea and instead used some of the draft passages to compose \"Twilight of the Idols\" and \"The Antichrist\" in 1888.\n\nHis health seemed to improve and he spent the summer in high spirits. In the fall of 1888, his writings and letters began to reveal a higher estimation of his own status and \"fate\". He overestimated the increasing response to his writings, however, especially to the recent polemic, \"The Case of Wagner\". On his 44th birthday, after completing \"Twilight of the Idols\" and \"The Antichrist\", he decided to write the autobiography \"Ecce Homo\". In its preface—which suggests Nietzsche was well aware of the interpretive difficulties his work would generate—he declares, \"Hear me! For I am such and such a person. Above all, do not mistake me for someone else.\" In December, Nietzsche began a correspondence with August Strindberg and thought that, short of an international breakthrough, he would attempt to buy back his older writings from the publisher and have them translated into other European languages. Moreover, he planned the publication of the compilation \"Nietzsche contra Wagner\" and of the poems that made up his collection \"Dionysian-Dithyrambs\".\n\nOn 3 January 1889, Nietzsche suffered a mental breakdown. Two policemen approached him after he caused a public disturbance in the streets of Turin. What happened remains unknown, but an often-repeated tale from shortly after his death states that Nietzsche witnessed the flogging of a horse at the other end of the Piazza Carlo Alberto, ran to the horse, threw his arms up around its neck to protect it, and then collapsed to the ground.\n\nIn the following few days, Nietzsche sent short writings—known as the \"Wahnzettel\" (\"Madness Letters\")—to a number of friends including Cosima Wagner and Jacob Burckhardt. Most of them were signed \"Dionysos\", though some were also signed \"der Gekreuzigte\" meaning \"the crucified one\". To his former colleague Burckhardt, Nietzsche wrote: \"I have had Caiaphas put in fetters. Also, last year I was crucified by the German doctors in a very drawn-out manner. Wilhelm, Bismarck, and all anti-Semites abolished.\" Additionally, he commanded the German emperor to go to Rome to be shot and summoned the European powers to take military action against Germany, that the pope should be put in jail and that he, Nietzsche, created the world and was in the process of having all anti-Semites shot dead.\n\nOn 6 January 1889, Burckhardt showed the letter he had received from Nietzsche to Overbeck. The following day, Overbeck received a similar letter and decided that Nietzsche's friends had to bring him back to Basel. Overbeck travelled to Turin and brought Nietzsche to a psychiatric clinic in Basel. By that time Nietzsche appeared fully in the grip of a serious mental illness, and his mother Franziska decided to transfer him to a clinic in Jena under the direction of Otto Binswanger. In January 1889, they proceeded with the planned release of \"Twilight of the Idols\", by that time already printed and bound. From November 1889 to February 1890, the art historian Julius Langbehn attempted to cure Nietzsche, claiming that the methods of the medical doctors were ineffective in treating Nietzsche's condition. Langbehn assumed progressively greater control of Nietzsche until his secretiveness discredited him. In March 1890, Franziska removed Nietzsche from the clinic and, in May 1890, brought him to her home in Naumburg. During this process Overbeck and Gast contemplated what to do with Nietzsche's unpublished works. In February, they ordered a fifty-copy private edition of \"Nietzsche contra Wagner\", but the publisher C. G. Naumann secretly printed one hundred. Overbeck and Gast decided to withhold publishing \"The Antichrist\" and \"Ecce Homo\" because of their more radical content. Nietzsche's reception and recognition enjoyed their first surge.\n\nIn 1893, Nietzsche's sister Elisabeth returned from Nueva Germania in Paraguay following the suicide of her husband. She read and studied Nietzsche's works and, piece by piece, took control of them and their publication. Overbeck eventually suffered dismissal and Gast finally co-operated. After the death of Franziska in 1897, Nietzsche lived in Weimar, where Elisabeth cared for him and allowed visitors, including Rudolf Steiner (who in 1895 had written one of the first books praising Nietzsche), to meet her uncommunicative brother. Elisabeth at one point went so far as to employ Steiner as a tutor to help her to understand her brother's philosophy. Steiner abandoned the attempt after only a few months, declaring that it was impossible to teach her anything about philosophy.\nNietzsche's mental illness was originally diagnosed as tertiary syphilis, in accordance with a prevailing medical paradigm of the time. Although most commentators regard his breakdown as unrelated to his philosophy, Georges Bataille dropped dark hints (\"'Man incarnate' must also go mad\") and René Girard's postmortem psychoanalysis posits a worshipful rivalry with Richard Wagner. Nietzsche had previously written, \"All superior men who were irresistibly drawn to throw off the yoke of any kind of morality and to frame new laws had, if they were not actually mad, no alternative but to make themselves or pretend to be mad.\" (Daybreak, 14) The diagnosis of syphilis has since been challenged and a diagnosis of \"manic-depressive illness with periodic psychosis followed by vascular dementia\" was put forward by Cybulska prior to Schain's study. Leonard Sax suggested the slow growth of a right-sided retro-orbital meningioma as an explanation of Nietzsche's dementia; Orth and Trimble postulated frontotemporal dementia while other researchers have proposed a hereditary stroke disorder called CADASIL. Poisoning by mercury, a treatment for syphilis at the time of Nietzsche's death, has also been suggested.\n\nIn 1898 and 1899, Nietzsche suffered at least two strokes. This partially paralyzed him, leaving him unable to speak or walk. He likely suffered from clinical hemiparesis/hemiplegia on the left side of his body by 1899. After contracting pneumonia in mid-August 1900, he had another stroke during the night of 24–25 August and died at about noon on 25 August. Elisabeth had him buried beside his father at the church in Röcken bei Lützen. His friend and secretary Gast gave his funeral oration, proclaiming: \"Holy be your name to all future generations!\"\n\nElisabeth Förster-Nietzsche compiled \"The Will to Power\" from Nietzsche's unpublished notebooks and published it posthumously. Because his sister arranged the book based on her own conflation of several of Nietzsche's early outlines and took great liberties with the material, the scholarly consensus has been that it does not reflect Nietzsche's intent. (For example, Elisabeth removed aphorism 35 of \"The Antichrist\", where Nietzsche rewrote a passage of the Bible.) Indeed, Mazzino Montinari, the editor of Nietzsche's \"Nachlass\", called it a forgery.\n\nGeneral commentators and Nietzsche scholars, whether emphasizing his cultural background or his language, overwhelmingly label Nietzsche as a \"German philosopher\". Others do not assign him a national category. Germany had not yet been unified into a nation-state, but Nietzsche was born a citizen of Prussia, which was then part of the German Confederation. His birthplace, Röcken, is in the modern German state of Saxony-Anhalt. When he accepted his post at Basel, Nietzsche applied for the annulment of his Prussian citizenship. The official response confirming the revocation of his citizenship came in a document dated 17 April 1869, and for the rest of his life he remained officially stateless.\n\nNietzsche believed his ancestors were Polish, at least toward the end of his life. He wore a signet ring bearing the Radwan coat of arms, traceable back to Polish nobility of medieval times and the surname \"Nicki\" of the Polish noble (szlachta) family bearing that coat of arms. Gotard Nietzsche, a member of the Nicki family, left Poland for Prussia. His descendants later settled in the Electorate of Saxony circa the year 1700. Nietzsche wrote in 1888, \"My ancestors were Polish noblemen (Nietzky); the type seems to have been well preserved despite three generations of German mothers.\" At one point, Nietzsche becomes even more adamant about his Polish identity. \"I am a pure-blooded Polish nobleman, without a single drop of bad blood, certainly not German blood.\" On yet another occasion, Nietzsche stated, \"Germany is a great nation only because its people have so much Polish blood in their veins ... I am proud of my Polish descent.\" Nietzsche believed his name might have been Germanized, in one letter claiming, \"I was taught to ascribe the origin of my blood and name to Polish noblemen who were called Niëtzky and left their home and nobleness about a hundred years ago, finally yielding to unbearable suppression: they were Protestants.\"\n\nMost scholars dispute Nietzsche's account of his family's origins. Hans von Müller debunked the genealogy put forward by Nietzsche's sister in favor of a Polish noble heritage. Max Oehler, the curator of the Nietzsche Archive at Weimar, argued that all of Nietzsche's ancestors bore German names, including the wives' families. Oehler claims that Nietzsche came from a long line of German Lutheran clergymen on both sides of his family, and modern scholars regard the claim of Nietzsche's Polish ancestry as a \"pure invention\". Colli and Montinari, the editors of Nietzsche's assembled letters, gloss Nietzsche's claims as a \"mistaken belief\" and \"without foundation.\" The name \"Nietzsche\" itself is not a Polish name, but an exceptionally common one throughout central Germany, in this and cognate forms (such as \"Nitsche\" and \"Nitzke\"). The name derives from the forename \"Nikolaus\", abbreviated to \"Nick\"; assimilated with the Slavic \"Nitz\", it first became \"Nitsche\" and then \"Nietzsche\".\n\nIt is not known why Nietzsche wanted to be thought of as Polish nobility. According to biographer R. J. Hollingdale, Nietzsche's propagation of the Polish ancestry myth may have been part of his \"campaign against Germany\".\n\nNietzsche never married. He proposed to Lou Salomé three times, but his proposal was rejected each time. There is a theory that blamed Salomé's view on sexuality as one of the reasons for her alienation from Nietzsche. As articulated in the 1898 novella \"Fenitschka\", she viewed the idea of sexual intercourse as prohibitive and marriage as a violation, with some suggesting that they indicated sexual repression and neurosis.\n\nNietzsche scholar has attempted to explain Nietzsche's life history and philosophy by claiming that Nietzsche was homosexual. Köhler argues that Nietzsche's syphilis, which is \"...usually considered to be the product of his encounter with a prostitute in a brothel in Cologne or Leipzig, is equally likely, it is now held, to have been contracted in a male brothel in Genoa.\" The acquisition of the infection from a homosexual brothel was confirmed by Sigmund Freud, who cited Otto Binswanger as his source. Köhler also suggests Nietzsche may have had a romantic relationship as well as a friendship with Paul Rée. There is the claim that Nietzsche's homosexuality is widely known in the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society, with Nietzsche's friend Paul Deussen claiming that the philosopher never \"touched a woman\".\n\nKöhler's views have not found wide acceptance among Nietzsche scholars and commentators. Allan Megill argues that, while Köhler's claim that Nietzsche was in a confrontation with his homosexual desire cannot simply be dismissed, \"the evidence is very weak,\" and Köhler may be projecting twentieth-century understandings of sexuality on nineteenth-century notions of friendship. It is also known that Nietzsche frequented heterosexual brothels. Some like Nigel Rodgers and Mel Thompson have argued that continuous sickness and headaches hindered Nietzsche from engaging much with women. Yet, they bring other examples in which Nietzsche expressed his affections to other women, including Wagner's wife Cosima Wagner.\n\nOther scholars have argued that Köhler's sexuality-based interpretation is not helpful in understanding Nietzsche's philosophy. However, there are also those who stressed that, if Nietzsche preferred men - with this preference constituting his psycho-sexual make-up - but could not admit his desires to himself, it meant he acted in conflict with his philosophy.\n\nBecause of Nietzsche's evocative style and provocative ideas, his philosophy generates passionate reactions. His works remain controversial, due to their varying interpretations and misinterpretations. In the Western philosophy tradition, Nietzsche's writings have been described as the unique case of free revolutionary thought, that is, revolutionary in its structure and problems, although not tied to any revolutionary project. His writings have also been described as a revolutionary project in which his philosophy serves as the foundation of a European cultural rebirth.\n\nThe \"Apollonian and Dionysian\" is a two-fold philosophical concept, based on certain features of ancient Greek mythology: Apollo and Dionysus. Even though the concept is famously related to \"The Birth of Tragedy\", the poet Hölderlin had already spoken of it, and Winckelmann had talked of Bacchus. One year before the publication of \"The Birth of Tragedy\", Nietzsche wrote a fragment titled \"On Music and Words\". In it he asserted the Schopenhauerian judgment that music is a primary expression of the essence of everything. Secondarily derivative are lyrical poetry and drama, which represent mere phenomenal appearances of objects. In this way, tragedy is born from music.\n\nNietzsche found in classical Athenian tragedy an art form that transcended the pessimism found in the so-called wisdom of Silenus. The Greek spectators, by looking into the abyss of human suffering depicted by characters on stage, passionately and joyously affirmed life, finding it worth living. A main theme in \"The Birth of Tragedy\" was that the fusion of Dionysian and Apollonian \"Kunsttrieben\" (\"artistic impulses\") forms dramatic arts, or tragedies. He goes on to argue that this fusion has not been achieved since the ancient Greek tragedians. Apollo represents harmony, progress, clarity and logic, whereas Dionysus represents disorder, intoxication, emotion and ecstasy. Nietzsche used these two forces because, for him, the world of mind and order on one side, and passion and chaos on the other formed principles that were fundamental to the Greek culture: the Apollonian side being a dreaming state, full of illusions; and Dionysian being the state of intoxication, representing the liberations of instinct and dissolution of boundaries. In this mold, man appears as the satyr. He is the horror of the annihilation of the principle of individuality and at the same time someone who delights in its destruction. Both of these principles are meant to represent cognitive states that appear through art as the power of nature in man.\n\nThe relationship between the Apollonian and Dionysian juxtapositions is apparent, in the interplay of tragedy: the tragic hero of the drama, the main protagonist, struggles to make order (in the Apollonian sense) of his unjust and chaotic (Dionysian) fate, though he dies unfulfilled in the end. Elaborating on the conception of Hamlet as an intellectual who cannot make up his mind, and therefore is a living antithesis to the man of action, Nietzsche argues that a Dionysian figure possesses knowledge to realize that his actions cannot change the eternal balance of things, and it disgusts him enough not to be able to make any act at all. Hamlet falls under this category—he has glimpsed the supernatural reality through the Ghost, he has gained true knowledge and knows that no action of his has the power to change this. For the audience of such drama, this tragedy allows them to sense an underlying essence, what Nietzsche called the \"Primordial Unity\", which revives Dionysian nature. He describes this primordial unity as the increase of strength, experience of fullness and plenitude bestowed by frenzy. Frenzy acts as an intoxication, and is crucial for the physiological condition that enables making of any art. Stimulated by this state, a person's artistic will is enhanced:\n\nIn this state one enriches everything out of one's own fullness: whatever one sees, whatever wills is seen swelled, taut, strong, overloaded with strength. A man in this state transforms things until they mirror his power—until they are reflections of his perfection. This having to transform into perfection is—art.\n\nNietzsche is adamant that the works of Aeschylus and Sophocles represent the apex of artistic creation, the true realization of tragedy; it is with Euripides, he states, that tragedy begins its \"Untergang\" (literally \"going under\" or \"downward-way,\" meaning decline, deterioration, downfall, death, etc.). Nietzsche objects to Euripides' use of Socratic rationalism and morality in his tragedies, claiming that the infusion of ethics and reason robs tragedy of its foundation, namely the fragile balance of the Dionysian and Apollonian. Socrates emphasized reason to such a degree that he diffused the value of myth and suffering to human knowledge. Plato continued with this path in his dialogues, and the modern world eventually inherited reason at the expense of artistic impulses that could be found only in the Apollonian and Dionysus dichotomy. This leads to his conclusion that European culture from the time of Socrates had always been only Apollonian and thus decadent and unhealthy. He notes that whenever Apollonian culture dominates, the Dionysian lacks the structure to make a coherent art, and when Dionysian dominates, the Apollonian lacks the necessary passion. Only the beautiful middle, the interplay of these two forces, brought together as an art, represented real Greek tragedy.\n\nAn example of the impact of this idea can be seen in the book \"Patterns of Culture\", where anthropologist Ruth Benedict uses Nietzschean opposites of \"Apollonian\" and \"Dionysian\" as the stimulus for her thoughts about Native American cultures. Carl Jung has written extensively on the dichotomy in \"Psychological Types\". Michel Foucault has commented that his book \"Madness and Civilization\" should be read \"under the sun of the great Nietzschean inquiry\". Here Foucault references Nietzsche's description of the birth and death of tragedy and his explanation that the subsequent tragedy of the Western world was the refusal of the tragic and, with that, refusal of the sacred. Painter Mark Rothko was influenced by Nietzsche's view of tragedy, which were presented in \"The Birth of Tragedy.\"\n\nNietzsche claimed the death of God would eventually lead to the loss of any universal perspective on things, and along with it any coherent sense of objective truth. Nietzsche himself rejected the idea of objective reality, arguing that knowledge is contingent and conditional, relative to various fluid perspectives or interests. This leads to constant reassessment of rules (i.e., those of philosophy, the scientific method, etc.) according to the circumstances of individual perspectives. This view has acquired the name \"perspectivism\".\n\nIn \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", Nietzsche proclaims that a table of values hangs above every great person. He points out that what is common among different peoples is the act of esteeming, of creating values, even if the values are different from one people to the next. Nietzsche asserts that what made people great was not the content of their beliefs, but the act of valuing. Thus the values a community strives to articulate are not as important as the collective will to see those values come to pass. The willing is more essential than the intrinsic worth of the goal itself, according to Nietzsche. \"A thousand goals have there been so far,\" says Zarathustra, \"for there are a thousand peoples. Only the yoke for the thousand necks is still lacking: the one goal is lacking. Humanity still has no goal.\" Hence, the title of the aphorism, \"On The Thousand And One Goals\". The idea that one value-system is no more worthy than the next, although it may not be directly ascribed to Nietzsche, has become a common premise in modern social science. Max Weber and Martin Heidegger absorbed it and made it their own. It shaped their philosophical and cultural endeavor, as well as their political understanding. Weber, for example, relies on Nietzsche's perspectivism by maintaining that objectivity is still possible—but only after a particular perspective, value, or end has been established.\n\nAmong his critique of traditional philosophy of Kant, Descartes and Plato in \"Beyond Good and Evil\", Nietzsche attacked \"thing in itself\" and \"cogito ergo sum\" (\"I think, therefore I am\") as unfalsifiable beliefs based on naive acceptance of previous notions and fallacies. Philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre puts Nietzsche in a high place in the history of philosophy. While criticizing nihilism and Nietzsche together as a sign of general decay, he still commends him for recognizing psychological motives behind Kant and Hume's moral philosophy:\n\nFor it was Nietzsche's historic achievement to understand more clearly than any other philosopher...not only that what purported to be appeals of objectivity were in fact expressions of subjective will, but also the nature of the problems that this posed for philosophy.\n\nIn \"Beyond Good and Evil\" and \"On the Genealogy of Morality\", Nietzsche's genealogical account of the development of modern moral systems occupies a central place. For Nietzsche, a fundamental shift took place during human history from thinking in terms of \"good and bad\" toward \"good and evil\".\n\nThe initial form of morality was set by a warrior aristocracy and other ruling castes of ancient civilizations. Aristocratic values of good and bad coincided with and reflected their relationship to lower castes such as slaves. Nietzsche presents this \"master morality\" as the original system of morality—perhaps best associated with Homeric Greece. To be \"good\" was to be happy and to have the things related to happiness: wealth, strength, health, power, etc. To be \"bad\" was to be like the slaves the aristocracy ruled over: poor, weak, sick, pathetic—an object of pity or disgust rather than hatred.\n\n\"Slave morality\" comes about as a reaction to master-morality. Here, value emerges from the contrast between good and evil: good being associated with other-worldliness, charity, piety, restraint, meekness, and submission; and evil seen as worldly, cruel, selfish, wealthy, and aggressive. Nietzsche sees slave morality as pessimistic and fearful, values for them serving only to ease the existence for those who suffer from the very same thing. He associates slave-morality with the Jewish and Christian traditions, in a way that slave-morality is born out of the ressentiment of slaves. Nietzsche argued that the idea of equality allowed slaves to overcome their own condition without hating themselves. And by denying the inherent inequality of people (such as success, strength, beauty or intelligence), slaves acquired a method of escape, namely by generating new values on the basis of rejecting something that was seen as a perceived source of frustration. It was used to overcome the slave's own sense of inferiority before the (better-off) masters. It does so by making out slave weakness to be a matter of choice, by, e.g., relabeling it as \"meekness\". The \"good man\" of master morality is precisely the \"evil man\" of slave morality, while the \"bad man\" is recast as the \"good man\".\n\nNietzsche sees the slave-morality as a source of the nihilism that has overtaken Europe. Modern Europe and Christianity exist in a hypocritical state due to a tension between master and slave morality, both values contradictorily determining, to varying degrees, the values of most Europeans (who are \"motley\"). Nietzsche calls for exceptional people to no longer be ashamed of their uniqueness in the face of a supposed morality-for-all, which he deems to be harmful to the flourishing of exceptional people. He cautions, however, that morality, per se, is not bad; it is good for the masses, and should be left to them. Exceptional people, on the other hand, should follow their own \"inner law\". A favorite motto of Nietzsche, taken from Pindar, reads: \"Become what you are.\"\n\nA long standing assumption about Nietzsche is that he preferred master over slave morality. However, the Nietzsche scholar Walter Kaufmann rejected this interpretation, writing that Nietzsche's analyses of these two types of morality were only used in a descriptive and historic sense, they were not meant for any kind of acceptance or glorifications. On the other hand, it is clear from his own writings that Nietzsche wanted the victory of master morality. He linked the \"salvation and future of the human race with the unconditional dominance\" of master morality and called master morality \"a higher order of values, the noble ones, those that say Yes to life, those that guarantee the future.\" Just as \"there is an order of rank between man and man,\" there is also an order of rank \"between morality and morality.\" Indeed, Nietzsche waged a philosophic war against the slave morality of Christianity in his \"revaluation of all values\" in order to bring about the victory of a new master morality that he called the \"philosophy of the future\" (\"Beyond Good and Evil\" is subtitled \"Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future\").\n\nIn \"Daybreak\", Nietzsche begins his \"Campaign against Morality\". He calls himself an \"immoralist\" and harshly criticizes the prominent moral philosophies of his day: Christianity, Kantianism, and utilitarianism. Nietzsche's concept \"God is dead\" applies to the doctrines of Christendom, though not to all other faiths: he claimed that Buddhism is a successful religion that he compliments for fostering critical thought. Still, Nietzsche saw his philosophy as a counter-movement to nihilism through appreciation of art:\n\nNietzsche claimed that the Christian faith as practised was not a proper representation of Jesus' teachings, as it forced people merely to believe in the way of Jesus but not to act as Jesus did, in particular his example of refusing to judge people, something that Christians had constantly done the opposite of. He condemned institutionalized Christianity for emphasizing a morality of pity (\"Mitleid\"), which assumes an inherent illness in society:\nIn \"Ecce Homo\" Nietzsche called the establishment of moral systems based on a dichotomy of good and evil a \"calamitous error\", and wished to initiate a re-evaluation of the values of the Judeo-Christian world. He indicates his desire to bring about a new, more naturalistic source of value in the vital impulses of life itself.\n\nWhile Nietzsche attacked the principles of Judaism, he was not antisemitic: in his work \"On the Genealogy of Morality\", he explicitly condemns antisemitism, and points out that his attack on Judaism was not an attack on contemporary Jewish people but specifically an attack upon the ancient Jewish priesthood whom he claims antisemitic Christians paradoxically based their views upon. An Israeli historian who performed a statistical analysis of everything Nietzsche wrote about Jews claims that cross references and context make clear that almost all (85%) negative comments are actually attacks on Christian doctrine or, sarcastically, on Richard Wagner.\n\nNietzsche felt that modern antisemitism was \"despicable\" and against European ideals. Its cause, in his opinion, was the growth in European nationalism and the endemic \"jealousy and hatred\" of Jewish success. He wrote that Jews should be thanked for helping uphold a respect for the philosophies of ancient Greece, and for giving rise to \"the noblest human being (Christ), the purest philosopher (Baruch Spinoza), the mightiest book, and the most effective moral code in the world.\"\n\nThe statement \"God is dead\", occurring in several of Nietzsche's works (notably in \"The Gay Science\"), has become one of his best-known remarks. On the basis of it, most commentators regard Nietzsche as an atheist; others (such as Kaufmann) suggest that this statement reflects a more subtle understanding of divinity. Recent developments in modern science and the increasing secularization of European society had effectively 'killed' the Abrahamic God, who had served as the basis for meaning and value in the West for more than a thousand years. The death of God may lead beyond bare perspectivism to outright nihilism, the belief that nothing has any inherent importance and that life lacks purpose. Here he states that the Christian moral doctrine provides people with intrinsic value, belief in God (which justifies the evil in the world) and a basis for objective knowledge. In this sense, in constructing a world where objective knowledge is possible, Christianity is an antidote to a primal form of nihilism—the despair of meaninglessness. As Heidegger put the problem, \"If God as the suprasensory ground and goal of all reality is dead, if the suprasensory world of the ideas has suffered the loss of its obligatory and above it its vitalizing and upbuilding power, then nothing more remains to which man can cling and by which he can orient himself.\"\n\nOne such reaction to the loss of meaning is what Nietzsche calls \"passive nihilism\", which he recognises in the pessimistic philosophy of Schopenhauer. Schopenhauer's doctrine—which Nietzsche also refers to as Western Buddhism—advocates separating oneself from will and desires in order to reduce suffering. Nietzsche characterises this ascetic attitude as a \"will to nothingness\", whereby life turns away from itself, as there is nothing of value to be found in the world. This moving away of all value in the world is characteristic of the nihilist, although in this, the nihilist appears to be inconsistent:\n\nNietzsche approaches the problem of nihilism as a deeply personal one, stating that this problem of the modern world is a problem that has \"become conscious\" in him. Furthermore, he emphasizes both the danger of nihilism and the possibilities it offers, as seen in his statement that \"I praise, I do not reproach, [nihilism's] arrival. I believe it is one of the greatest crises, a moment of the deepest self-reflection of humanity. Whether man recovers from it, whether he becomes master of this crisis, is a question of his strength!\" According to Nietzsche, it is only when nihilism is \"overcome\" that a culture can have a true foundation on which to thrive. He wished to hasten its coming only so that he could also hasten its ultimate departure. Heidegger interprets the death of God with what he explains as the death of metaphysics. He concludes that metaphysics has reached its potential and that the ultimate fate and downfall of metaphysics was proclaimed with the statement \"God is dead\".\n\nA basic element in Nietzsche's philosophical outlook is the \"will to power\" (\"der Wille zur Macht\"), which he maintained provides a basis for understanding human behavior—more so than competing explanations, such as the ones based on pressure for adaptation or survival. As such, according to Nietzsche, the drive for conservation appears as the major motivator of human or animal behavior only in exceptions, as the general condition of life is not one of emergency, of 'struggle for existence'. More often than not, self-conservation is but a consequence of a creature's will to exert its strength on the outside world.\n\nIn presenting his theory of human behavior, Nietzsche also addressed, and attacked, concepts from philosophies popularly embraced in his days, such as Schopenhauer's notion of an aimless will or that of utilitarianism. Utilitarians claim that what moves people is mainly the desire to be happy, to accumulate pleasure in their lives. But such a conception of happiness Nietzsche rejected as something limited to, and characteristic of, the bourgeois lifestyle of the English society, and instead put forth the idea that happiness is not an aim \"per se\"—it is instead a consequence of a successful pursuit of one's aims, of the overcoming of hurdles to one's actions—in other words, of the fulfillment of the will.\n\nRelated to his theory of the will to power is his speculation, which he did not deem final, regarding the reality of the physical world, including inorganic matter—that, like man's affections and impulses, the material world is also set by the dynamics of a form of the will to power. At the core of his theory is a rejection of atomism—the idea that matter is composed of stable, indivisible units (atoms). Instead, he seems to have accepted the conclusions of Ruđer Bošković, who explained the qualities of matter as a result of an interplay of forces. One study of Nietzsche defines his fully developed concept of the will to power as \"the element from which derive both the quantitative difference of related forces and the quality that devolves into each force in this relation\" revealing the will to power as \"the principle of the synthesis of forces.\" Of such forces Nietzsche said they could perhaps be viewed as a primitive form of the will. Likewise he rejected as a mere interpretation the view that the movement of bodies is ruled by inexorable laws of nature, positing instead that movement was governed by the power relations between bodies and forces. Other scholars disagree that Nietzsche considered the material world to be a form of the will to power: Nietzsche thoroughly criticized metaphysics, and by including the will to power in the material world, he would simply be setting up a new metaphysics. Other than aphorism 36 in \"Beyond Good and Evil\", where he raised a question regarding will to power as being in the material world, it was only in his notes (unpublished by himself), where he wrote about a metaphysical will to power. Nietzsche directed his landlord to burn those notes in 1888 when he left Sils Maria for the last time.\n\n\"Eternal return\" (also known as \"eternal recurrence\") is a hypothetical concept that posits that the universe has been recurring, and will continue to recur, in a self-similar form for an infinite number of times across infinite time or space. It is a purely physical concept, involving no supernatural reincarnation, but the return of beings in the same bodies. Nietzsche first invokes the idea of eternal return in a parable in Section 341 of \"The Gay Science\", and also in the chapter \"Of the Vision and the Riddle\" in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", among other places. Nietzsche contemplates the idea as potentially \"horrifying and paralyzing,\" and says that its burden is the \"heaviest weight\" imaginable (\"das schwerste Gewicht\"). The wish for the eternal return of all events would mark the ultimate affirmation of life, a reaction to Schopenhauer's praise of denying the will‐to‐live. To comprehend eternal recurrence in his thought, and to not merely come to peace with it but to embrace it, requires \"amor fati\", \"love of fate\". As Heidegger points out in his lectures on Nietzsche, Nietzsche's first mention of eternal recurrence presents this concept as a hypothetical \"question\" rather than postulating it as a fact. According to Heidegger, it is the burden imposed by the \"question\" of eternal recurrence—whether or not such a thing could possibly be true—that is so significant in modern thought: \"The way Nietzsche here patterns the first communication of the thought of the 'greatest burden' [of eternal recurrence] makes it clear that this 'thought of thoughts' is at the same time 'the most burdensome thought.'\"\n\nNot only does Nietzsche posit that the universe is recurring over infinite time and space, but that the different versions of events that have occurred in the past may at one point or another take place again, hence \"all configurations that have previously existed on this earth must yet meet...\" And with each version of events is hoping that some knowledge or awareness is gained to better the individual, hence \"And thus it will happen one day that a man will be born again, just like me and a woman will be born, just like Mary—only that it is hoped to be that the head of this man may contain a little less foolishness...\"\n\nAlexander Nehamas writes in \"Nietzsche: Life as Literature\" of three ways of seeing the eternal recurrence: \"(A) My life will recur in exactly identical fashion.\" This expresses a totally fatalistic approach to the idea. \"(B) My life may recur in exactly identical fashion.\" This second view conditionally asserts cosmology, but fails to capture what Nietzsche refers to in \"The Gay Science\", 341. Finally, \"(C) If my life were to recur, then it could recur only in identical fashion.\" Nehamas shows that this interpretation exists totally independently of physics and does not presuppose the truth of cosmology. Nehamas draws the conclusion that if individuals constitute themselves through their actions, then they can only maintain themselves in their current state by living in a recurrence of past actions (Nehamas 153). Nietzsche's thought is the negation of the idea of a history of salvation.\n\nAnother concept important to an understanding of Nietzsche's thought is the \"Übermensch\" Developing the idea of nihilism, Nietzsche wrote \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", therein introducing the concept of a value-creating Übermensch, not as a project, but as an anti-project, the absence of any project. According to Lampert, \"the death of God must be followed by a long twilight of piety and nihilism (II. 19; III. 8). Zarathustra's gift of the overman is given to a mankind not aware of the problem to which the overman is the solution.\" Zarathustra presents the overman as the creator of new values, and he appears as a solution to the problem of the death of God and nihilism. The overman does not follow morality of common people since that favors mediocrity but instead rises above the notion of good and evil and above the \"herd\". In this way Zarathustra proclaims his ultimate goal as the journey towards the state of overman. He wants a kind of spiritual evolution of self-awareness and overcoming of traditional views on morality and justice that stem from the superstition beliefs still deeply rooted or related to the notion of God and Christianity.\n\nWhile interpretations of Nietzsche's overman vary wildly, here is one of his quotations from \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" (Prologue, §§3–4):\n\nZarathustra contrasts the overman with the last man of egalitarian modernity (most obvious example being democracy), an alternative goal humanity might set for itself. The last man is possible only by mankind's having bred an apathetic creature who has no great passion or commitment, who is unable to dream, who merely earns his living and keeps warm. This concept appears only in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", and is presented as a condition that would render the creation of the overman impossible.\n\nSome have suggested that the notion of eternal return is related to the overman, since willing the eternal return of the same is a necessary step if the overman is to create new values, untainted by the spirit of gravity or asceticism. Values involve a rank-ordering of things, and so are inseparable from approval and disapproval; yet it was dissatisfaction that prompted men to seek refuge in other-worldliness and embrace other-worldly values. It could seem that the overman, in being devoted to any values at all, would necessarily fail to create values that did not share some bit of asceticism. Willing the eternal recurrence is presented as accepting the existence of the low while still recognizing it as the low, and thus as overcoming the spirit of gravity or asceticism. One must have the strength of the overman in order to will the eternal recurrence; that is, only the overman will have the strength to fully accept all of his past life, including his failures and misdeeds, and to truly will their eternal return. This action nearly kills Zarathustra, for example, and most human beings cannot avoid other-worldliness because they really are sick, not because of any choice they made.\n\nThe Nazis tried to incorporate the concept into their ideology. After his death, Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche became the curator and editor of her brother's manuscripts. She reworked Nietzsche's unpublished writings to fit her own German nationalist ideology while often contradicting or obfuscating Nietzsche's stated opinions, which were explicitly opposed to antisemitism and nationalism. Through her published editions, Nietzsche's work became associated with fascism and Nazism; 20th century scholars contested this interpretation of his work and corrected editions of his writings were soon made available.\n\nAlthough Nietzsche has famously been misrepresented as a predecessor to Nazism, he criticized anti-Semitism, pan-Germanism and, to a lesser extent, nationalism. Thus, he broke with his editor in 1886 because of his opposition to his editor's anti-Semitic stances, and his rupture with Richard Wagner, expressed in \"The Case of Wagner\" and \"Nietzsche contra Wagner,\" both of which he wrote in 1888, had much to do with Wagner's endorsement of pan-Germanism and anti-Semitism — and also of his rallying to Christianity. In a March 29, 1887 letter to Theodor Fritsch, Nietzsche mocked anti-Semites, Fritsch, Eugen Dühring, Wagner, Ebrard, Wahrmund, and the leading advocate of pan-Germanism, Paul de Lagarde, who would become, along with Wagner and Houston Chamberlain, the main official influences of Nazism. This 1887 letter to Fritsch ended by: \"And finally, how do you think I feel when the name Zarathustra is mouthed by anti-Semites?\"\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche held a pessimistic view on modern society and culture. His views stand against the concept of popular culture. He believed the press and mass culture led to conformity and brought about mediocrity. Nietzsche saw a lack of intellectual progress, leading to the decline of the human species. According to Nietzsche, individuals needed to overcome this form of mass culture. He believed some people were able to become superior individuals through the use of will power. By rising above mass culture, society would produce higher, brighter and healthier human beings.\n\nA trained philologist, Nietzsche had a thorough knowledge of Greek philosophy. He read Kant, Plato, Mill, Schopenhauer and Spir, who became his main opponents in his philosophy, and later Baruch Spinoza, whom he saw as his \"precursor\" in many respects but as a personification of the \"ascetic ideal\" in others. However, Nietzsche referred to Kant as a \"moral fanatic\", Plato as \"boring\", Mill as a \"blockhead\", and of Spinoza he said: \"How much of personal timidity and vulnerability does this masquerade of a sickly recluse betray?\" He likewise expressed contempt for British author George Eliot.\n\nNietzsche's philosophy, while innovative and revolutionary, was indebted to many predecessors. While at Basel, Nietzsche offered lecture courses on pre-Platonic philosophers for several years, and the text of this lecture series has been characterized as a \"lost link\" in the development of his thought. \"In it concepts such as the will to power, the eternal return of the same, the overman, gay science, self-overcoming and so on receive rough, unnamed formulations and are linked to specific pre-Platonics, especially Heraclitus, who emerges as a pre-Platonic Nietzsche.\" The pre-Socratic thinker Heraclitus was known for the rejection of the concept of being as a constant and eternal principle of universe, and his embrace of \"flux\" and incessant change. His symbolism of the world as \"child play\" marked by amoral spontaneity and lack of definite rules was appreciated by Nietzsche. From his Heraclitean sympathy, Nietzsche was also a vociferous detractor of Parmenides, who opposed Heraclitus and believed all world is a single Being with no change at all.\n\nIn his \"Egotism in German Philosophy\", Santayana claimed that Nietzsche's whole philosophy was a reaction to Schopenhauer. Santayana wrote that Nietzsche's work was \"an emendation of that of Schopenhauer. The will to live would become the will to dominate; pessimism founded on reflection would become optimism founded on courage; the suspense of the will in contemplation would yield to a more biological account of intelligence and taste; finally in the place of pity and asceticism (Schopenhauer's two principles of morals) Nietzsche would set up the duty of asserting the will at all costs and being cruelly but beautifully strong. These points of difference from Schopenhauer cover the whole philosophy of Nietzsche.\"\n\nNietzsche expressed admiration for 17th-century French moralists such as La Rochefoucauld, La Bruyère and Vauvenargues, as well as for Stendhal. The organicism of Paul Bourget influenced Nietzsche, as did that of Rudolf Virchow and Alfred Espinas. Nietzsche wrote in a letter in 1867 that he was trying to improve his German style of writing with the help of Lessing, Lichtenberg and Schopenhauer. It was probably Lichtenberg (along with Paul Rée) whose aphoristic style of writing contributed to Nietzsche's own use of aphorism instead of an essay. Nietzsche early learned of Darwinism through Friedrich Albert Lange. The essays of Ralph Waldo Emerson had a profound influence on Nietzsche, who \"loved Emerson from first to last\", wrote \"Never have I felt so much at home in a book\", and called him \"[the] author who has been richest in ideas in this century so far.\" Hippolyte Taine influenced Nietzsche's view on Rousseau and Napoleon. Notably, he also read some of the posthumous works of Charles Baudelaire, Tolstoy's \"My Religion\", Ernest Renan's \"Life of Jesus\" and Fyodor Dostoyevsky's \"Demons\". Nietzsche called Dostoevsky \"the only psychologist from whom I have anything to learn.\" While Nietzsche never mentions Max Stirner, the similarities in their ideas have prompted a minority of interpreters to suggest a relationship between the two. In 1861 Nietzsche wrote an enthusiastic essay on his \"favorite poet\", Friedrich Hölderlin, mostly forgotten at that time. He also expressed deep appreciation for Stifter's \"Indian Summer\", Byron's \"Manfred\" and Twain's \"Tom Sawyer\".\n\nNietzsche's works did not reach a wide readership during his active writing career. However, in 1888 the influential Danish critic Georg Brandes aroused considerable excitement about Nietzsche through a series of lectures he gave at the University of Copenhagen. In the years after Nietzsche's death in 1900, his works became better known, and readers have responded to them in complex and sometimes controversial ways. Many Germans eventually discovered his appeals for greater individualism and personality development in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", but responded to them divergently. He had some following among left-wing Germans in the 1890s; in 1894–1895 German conservatives wanted to ban his work as subversive. During the late 19th century Nietzsche's ideas were commonly associated with anarchist movements and appear to have had influence within them, particularly in France and the United States. H. L. Mencken produced the first book on Nietzsche in English in 1907, \"The Philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche\", and in 1910 a book of translated paragraphs from Nietzsche, increasing knowledge of his philosophy in the United States. Nietzsche is known today as a precursor to expressionism, existentialism, and postmodernism.\n\nW. B. Yeats and Arthur Symons described Nietzsche as the intellectual heir to William Blake. Symons went on to compare the ideas of the two thinkers in \"The Symbolist Movement in Literature\", while Yeats tried to raise awareness of Nietzsche in Ireland. A similar notion was espoused by W. H. Auden who wrote of Nietzsche in his \"New Year Letter\" (released in 1941 in \"The Double Man\"): \"O masterly debunker of our liberal fallacies [...] all your life you stormed, like your English forerunner Blake\". Nietzsche made an impact on composers during the 1890s. Writer on music Donald Mitchell notes that Gustav Mahler was \"attracted to the poetic fire of Zarathustra, but repelled by the intellectual core of its writings.\" He also quotes Mahler himself, and adds that he was influenced by Nietzsche's conception and affirmative approach to nature, which Mahler presented in his Third Symphony using Zarathustra's roundelay. Frederick Delius produced a piece of choral music, \"A Mass of Life\", based on a text of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", while Richard Strauss (who also based his \"Also sprach Zarathustra\" on the same book), was only interested in finishing \"another chapter of symphonic autobiography\". Famous writers and poets influenced by Nietzsche include André Gide, August Strindberg, Robinson Jeffers, Pío Baroja, D. H. Lawrence, Edith Södergran and Yukio Mishima.\n\nNietzsche was an early influence on the poetry of Rainer Maria Rilke. Knut Hamsun counted Nietzsche, along with Strindberg and Dostoyevsky, as one of his primary influences. Author Jack London wrote that he was more stimulated by Nietzsche than by any other writer. Critics have suggested that the character of David Grief in \"A Son of the Sun\" was based on Nietzsche. Nietzsche's influence on Muhammad Iqbal is most evidenced in \"Asrar-i-Khudi (The Secrets of the Self)\". Wallace Stevens was another reader of Nietzsche, and elements of Nietzsche's philosophy were found throughout Steven's poetry collection \"Harmonium\". Olaf Stapledon was influenced by the idea of the \"Übermensch\" and it is a central theme in his books \"Odd John\" and \"Sirius\". In Russia, Nietzsche has influenced Russian symbolism and figures such as Dmitry Merezhkovsky, Andrei Bely, Vyacheslav Ivanov and Alexander Scriabin have all incorporated or discussed parts of Nietzsche philosophy in their works. Thomas Mann's novel \"Death in Venice\" shows a use of Apollonian and Dionysian, and in \"Doctor Faustus\" Nietzsche was a central source for the character of Adrian Leverkühn. Hermann Hesse, similarly, in his \"Narcissus and Goldmund\" presents two main characters in the sense of Apollonian and Dionysian as the two opposite yet intertwined spirits. Painter Giovanni Segantini was fascinated by \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", and he drew an illustration for the first Italian translation of the book. The Russian painter Lena Hades created the oil painting cycle \"Also Sprach Zarathustra\" dedicated to the book \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\".\n\nBy World War I, Nietzsche had acquired a reputation as an inspiration for both right-wing German militarism and leftist politics. German soldiers received copies of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" as gifts during World War I. The Dreyfus affair provides a contrasting example of his reception: the French antisemitic Right labelled the Jewish and leftist intellectuals who defended Alfred Dreyfus as \"Nietzscheans\". Nietzsche had a distinct appeal for many Zionist thinkers around the start of the 20th century, most notable being Ahad Ha'am, Hillel Zeitlin, Micha Josef Berdyczewski, A. D. Gordon and Martin Buber, who went so far as to extoll Nietzsche as a \"creator\" and \"emissary of life\". Chaim Weizmann was a great admirer of Nietzsche; the first president of Israel sent Nietzsche's books to his wife, adding a comment in a letter that \"This was the best and finest thing I can send to you.\" Israel Eldad, the ideological chief of the Stern Gang that fought the British in Palestine in the 1940s, wrote about Nietzsche in his underground newspaper and later translated most of Nietzsche's books into Hebrew. Eugene O'Neill remarked that \"Zarathustra\" influenced him more than any other book he ever read. He also shared Nietzsche's view of tragedy. Plays \"The Great God Brown\" and \"Lazarus Laughed\" are an example of Nietzsche's influence on O'Neill. Nietzsche's influence on the works of Frankfurt School philosophers Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno can be seen in the popular \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\". Adorno summed up Nietzsche's philosophy as expressing the \"humane in a world in which humanity has become a sham.\"\n\nNietzsche's growing prominence suffered a severe setback when his works became closely associated with Adolf Hitler and Nazi Germany. Many political leaders of the twentieth century were at least superficially familiar with Nietzsche's ideas, although it is not always possible to determine whether they actually read his work. It is debated among scholars whether Hitler read Nietzsche, although if he did his reading of him may not have been extensive. He was a frequent visitor to the Nietzsche museum in Weimar and did use expressions of Nietzsche's, such as \"lords of the earth\" in \"Mein Kampf\". The Nazis made selective use of Nietzsche's philosophy. Mussolini, Charles de Gaulle and Huey P. Newton read Nietzsche. Richard Nixon read Nietzsche with \"curious interest,\" and his book \"Beyond Peace\" might have taken its title from Nietzsche's book \"Beyond Good and Evil\" which Nixon read beforehand. Bertrand Russell wrote that Nietzsche had exerted great influence on philosophers and on people of literary and artistic culture, but warned that the attempt to put Nietzsche's philosophy of aristocracy into practice could only be done by an organization similar to the Fascist or the Nazi party.\n\nA decade after World War II, there was a revival of Nietzsche's philosophical writings thanks to exhaustive translations and analyses by Walter Kaufmann and R. J. Hollingdale. Others, well known philosophers in their own right, wrote commentaries on Nietzsche's philosophy, including Martin Heidegger, who produced a four-volume study, and Lev Shestov, who wrote a book called \"Dostoyevski, Tolstoy and Nietzsche\" where he portrays Nietzsche and Dostoyevski as the \"thinkers of tragedy\". Georg Simmel compares Nietzsche's importance to ethics to that of Copernicus for cosmology. Sociologist Ferdinand Tönnies read Nietzsche avidly from his early life, and later frequently discussed many of his concepts in his own works. Nietzsche has influenced philosophers such as Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre, Oswald Spengler, George Grant, Emil Cioran, Albert Camus, Ayn Rand, Jacques Derrida, Leo Strauss, Max Scheler, Michel Foucault and Bernard Williams. Camus described Nietzsche as \"the only artist to have derived the extreme consequences of an aesthetics of the absurd\". Paul Ricœur called Nietzsche one of the masters of the \"school of suspicion\", alongside Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud. Carl Jung was also influenced by Nietzsche. In \"Memories, Dreams, Reflections\", a biography transcribed by his secretary, he cites Nietzsche as a large influence. Aspects of Nietzsche's philosophy, especially his ideas of the self and his relation to society, also run through much of late-twentieth and early twenty-first century thought. His deepening of the romantic-heroic tradition of the nineteenth century, for example, as expressed in the ideal of the \"grand striver\" appears in the work of thinkers from Cornelius Castoriadis to Roberto Mangabeira Unger. For Nietzsche this grand striver overcomes obstacles, engages in epic struggles, pursues new goals, embraces recurrent novelty, and transcends existing structures and contexts. No social or cultural construct can contain this idealized individual.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3500183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3500183", "title": "Geoffrey de Runcey", "text": "Geoffrey de Runcey\n\nGeoffrey de Runcey (1340s?–1384) was a 14th century chronicler and abbey servant who wrote a valuable, although now-incomplete journal of his travels around medieval East Anglia.\n\nLittle is known about de Runcey's ancestry, but his name suggests that he originated from North Runcton, now in the town of King's Lynn in Norfolk, \"Runcey\" being an archaic spelling (see also Oxburgh Hall at Oxborough). It has been speculated that he was the son of a landowner, free tenant, or even the illegitimate son of a priest, as despite not being ordained he was educated at Bury St. Edmunds Abbey and was in service with the monastery for the rest of his life.\n\nHe is best known for his \"Chronicle\" from circa 1379. De Runcey appears to have been sent by the priory to spread the news of the death of the high abbot of Bury around the Benedictine monasteries of East Anglia, in the process coming into contact with many walks of life. The chronicle was likely to have been written as evidence that the task was accomplished. He died in 1384, although the cause of death is not recorded. He was interred at the priory of St Edmund, in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk, although his tomb was destroyed during the Dissolution of the Monasteries.\n\nThe \"Chronicle\" is, unusually, written in late Middle English, although in a second version (B manuscript), de Runcey or another hand appears to have (poorly) translated sections into Latin for the newly chosen abbot's reading. This version is of a more decorated nature. His journal has proved particularly useful for historians researching Fen customs before Cornelius Vermuyden's great drainage scheme of the 1630s, and is notable for its whimsical, yet unusually secular outlook and lack of superstition. In particular his vivid account of stilt walkers has provided the foundation for many histories of the area:\n\n\"Stilltemen are yfounden inn the Fenn regionis…Althow theyye are usually triumfant, manny younge boyes are accustomed to falle manny tymes beforr theyye are trewly sucsesfull.\"\n\nMuch of his original journal has unfortunately been lost, although the remaining fragments are kept preserved at the Hillard Collection in Suffolk, the Wisbech Museum and a transcription into modern English of key parts of both manuscripts is available at the Chatteris Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50063897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50063897", "title": "Giovanni Battista Gallizioli", "text": "Giovanni Battista Gallizioli\n\nGiovanni Battista Gallizioli or Gallicciolli (17 May 1733 – 12 May 1806) was an Italian philosopher, hebraist, orientalist, historian, archaeologist and philologist, catholic priest and citizen of the Republic of Venice.\n\nBorn in Venice in 1733 from Paolo and Adriana Grismondi, Giovanni Battista Gallizioli received a first instruction from Jacopo Scattaia, a mediocre preceptor. In 1749 he entered the clergy and began his wide studies, ranging from theology to philosophy, from history to ancient literature, especially to the eastern languages, especially Hebrew (his master was the rabbi Simchah ben Abraham Calimani), the Syriac and the Chaldean. He also gained knowledge of English and French as well as of mathematics and geometry.\n\nFor a time he was employed as a private teacher, but in December 1782 he was called to take the Greek and Hebrew chair in Venice. There is no documentary evidence that, as claimed by some biographers, Gallicciolli rejected the chair of Oriental languages at the University of Parma. Certainly he rejected the proposal of Andrea Querini who wanted him at the University of Padua. He accepted, however, to teach Greek for free to the masters of the Patriarchal Seminary of Venice.\n\nUntil the end of his existence, he was divided between his activities of scholar and philologist and priest in San Cassiano, his native parish.\n\nFrom the very beginning, Galliccioli distinguished himself, in Venice and outside, as a great connoisseur of Jewish language and culture. Between 1774 and 1805 he was in close contact with Giovanni Bernardo De Rossi, with whom he had an epistle of philological questions. He was also a friend of Jacopo Nani and Andrea Memmo, for whom he studied ancient inscriptions and codes.\n\nThe first important publication that emphasized his relevance, especially in the patristic era, was \"S. Gregorii papae I cognomento Magni Opera omnia\", an edition of the works of Saint Gregory the Great printed between 1768 and 1776. In the introduction, the author underlined the innovations on which the work was based, focusing on the coding of the Biblioteca Marciana codes and those of the bishop of Torcello Giovanni Nani.\n\nHe died in Venice in 1806.\n\n"}
{"id": "13812821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13812821", "title": "Groundling", "text": "Groundling\n\nA groundling was a person who visited the Globe Theatre in the early 17th century. They were too poor to pay to be able to sit on one of the three levels of the theatre. If they paid one penny, they could stand in \"the pit\", also called \"the yard\", just below the stage, to watch the play. Standing in the pit was uncomfortable, and people were usually packed in tightly. The groundlings were commoners who were also referred to as \"stinkards\" or \"penny-stinkers\". The name 'groundlings' came about after Hamlet referenced them as such when the play was first performed around 1600. At the time, the word had entered the English language to mean a small type of fish with a gaping mouth - from the vantage point of the actor playing Hamlet, set on a stage raised around 5 feet from the ground, the sea of upturned faces may have looked like wide-mouthed fish. They were known to misbehave and are commonly believed to have thrown food such as fruit and nuts at characters they did not like, although there is no evidence of this. They would watch the plays from the cramped pits with sometimes over 500 people standing there.\n\nIn 1599, Thomas Platter mentioned the cost of admission at contemporary London theatres in his diary: \n\n\"There are separate galleries and there one stands more comfortably and moreover can sit, but one pays more for it. Thus anyone who remains on the level standing pays only one English penny: but if he wants to sit, he is let in at a farther door, and there he gives another penny. If he desires to sit on a cushion in the most comfortable place of all, where he not only sees everything well, but can also be seen then he gives yet another English penny at another door. And in the pauses of the comedy food and drink are carried round amongst the people and one can thus refresh himself at his own cost.\"\n"}
{"id": "3681668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3681668", "title": "Holocene calendar", "text": "Holocene calendar\n\nThe Holocene calendar, also known as the Holocene Era or Human Era (HE), is a year numbering system that adds exactly 10,000 years to the currently dominant (AD/BC or CE/BCE) numbering scheme, placing its first year near the beginning of the Holocene geological epoch and the Neolithic Revolution, when humans transitioned from a hunter-gatherer lifestyle to agriculture and fixed settlements. The year in the Holocene calendar is HE. The HE scheme was first proposed by Cesare Emiliani in 1993.\n\nCesare Emiliani's proposal for a calendar reform sought to solve a number of alleged problems with the current \"Anno Domini\" era, which number the years of the commonly accepted world calendar. These issues include: \n\nInstead, HE uses the \"beginning of human era\" as its epoch, arbitrarily defined as 10,000 BC denoted year 1 HE, so that AD 1 matches 10,001 HE. This is a rough approximation of the start of the current geologic epoch, the Holocene (the name means \"entirely recent\"). The motivation for this is that human civilization (e.g. the first settlements, agriculture, etc.) is believed to have arisen within this time. Emiliani would later propose that the start of the Holocene be fixed at the same date as the beginning of his proposed era.\n\nHuman Era proponents claim that it makes for easier geological, archaeological, dendrochronological and historical dating, as well as that it bases its epoch on an event more universally relevant than the birth of Jesus. All key dates in human history can then be listed using a simple increasing date scale with smaller dates always occurring before larger dates. Another gain is that the Holocene Era starts before the other calendar eras. So it could be useful for the comparison and conversion of dates from different calendars.\n\nWhen Emiliani discussed the calendar in 1994 he mentioned that there was no agreement on the date of the start of the Holocene epoch with contemporary estimates ranging between 12,700 and 10,970 years BP. Since then, scientists have improved their understanding of, and can now more accurately date the beginning of, the Holocene. A consensus viewpoint has solidified and was formally adopted by the IUGS in 2013. Current estimates place its start at 11,700 years before 2000 (9701 BC), about 300 years more recent than the epoch of the Holocene calendar.\n\nConversion from Julian or Gregorian AD years to the Human Era can be achieved by adding 10,000 to the AD year. The current year of AD can be transformed into a Holocene year by adding the digit \"1\" before it, making it HE. BC years are converted by subtracting the BC year from 10,001. A useful validity check is that the last single digits of BC and HE equivalent pairs must add up to 1 or 11.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38517071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38517071", "title": "Ibn Isfandiyar", "text": "Ibn Isfandiyar\n\nBahā’ al-Dīn Muḥammad ibn Ḥasan ibn Isfandiyār was a 13th-century Iranian historian from Tabaristan, who wrote a history of his native province, the \"Tarikh-i Tabaristan\". What little is known of his life comes from the introduction of this work.\n\nIn his early career, Ibn Isfandiyar was a member of the court of the Bavandids, a native dynasty of Tabaristan, and enjoyed the patronage of Ardashir I (died 1206). He began compiling material for his history in 1206, which up to then mainly consisted of the \"Bavand-nameh\", a now-lost work presumably in Persian which our author viewed as a Bavandid romance only. In 1209 he travelled briefly to Baghdad. On his return he stayed for two months in Rayy, where he came across in Rustam b. Shahriyar's library the \"Uqidu sihr wa-qala'idu durar\" of Abu 'l-Hasan Muhammad al-Yazdadi - an Arabic history of Tabaristan subsequently lost. Ibn Isfandiyar translated this work into Persian, and this, coupled with genealogical and historical information on the Bavandids, formed the core of his history. He added more material over the years, especially during his five-year stay in Khwarazm. His fate is unknown; he may have returned to his native Tabaristan and died there, or he may have perished in the Mongol sack of Khwarazm in 1220.\n\nHis history, which was not completed before 1217/17, ends with the first fall of the Bavandid dynasty in 1210. An anonymous later author continued it up to 1349, when the dynasty’s second period ended, based chiefly on Awliya Allah Amuli's \"Tarikh-i Ruyan\". Ibn Isfandiyar's work includes much unique historical, biographical and geographical information, including verses in Tabari language and a Persian translation of the \"Letter of Tansar\", an important piece of Pahlavi literature, sent by the Sasanian ruler Ardashir III's chief priest to Jusnasaf, prince of Tabaristan.\n\n"}
{"id": "48701387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48701387", "title": "International Medieval Combat Federation", "text": "International Medieval Combat Federation\n\nThe International Medieval Combat Federation, (IMCF) is a global historical full contact sport fighting revival movement, in which combatants use historically accurate reproduction medieval and early modern armour and blunted weapons to engage in competitive fights according to authentic historical tournament rules. Founded in 2013, the organisation now attracts hundred of fighters from 26 countries at various fighting competitions around the world. Most events are open to the public and major competitions are regularly seen by tens of thousands of spectators. The league holds dozens of smaller events throughout the year as well as a world championship competition in which national teams, selected from local or regional clubs in their respective countries, assemble at a suitably historical venue to compete. These events take the character of a medieval tournament, with historical attractions and exhibits beside the competition, as well as market stalls selling historically-themed foods, goods and souvenirs. Competing teams are billeted in reproduction medieval camps and must wear authentic clothing. Somewhat unlike the medieval competition, fighting is exclusively on foot, and strict rules are enforced to ensure the safety of competitors and fairness in the competition. The fighting can be between individuals or teams of up to 16 fighters per side.\n\nThe IMCF was founded in 2013 in response to a dispute between national teams and the organisers of the Battle of the Nations competition, founded three years previously. Dozens of national teams attended the first IMCF world championship competition at the 15th century Belmonte Castle, in Spain. The next world championship competition was held in 2015 at Malbork Castle, Poland. The location for the 2016 IMCF world championship was in Portugal. In 2017 the tournament was held in Spottrup,Denmark.\n\nRules for competitions draw closely on original medieval texts outlining sport (i.e. non-lethal) tournament combat, such as King René's Tournament Book from 1460. Where original information is not available, or would present too great a risk to those fighting, new rules can be devised by an international team of referees, or \"marshals\", to be voted upon by fighters. As a young sport, rules are regularly updated in response to observations during competitions and subsequently rules of fighting may vary somewhat year-by-year.\n\nAll fighters must wear historical steel armour that encloses the torso, limbs, head & neck, & hands, and beneath this a padded layer, known as a gambeson. Helmets must be analogous to the rest of the armour, must cover the face and must be closed with a strap to prevent removal during combat. All armour must be of a style traceable to a historical period and location, no piece may date from more than 50 years of another. Fighters may wear a supplementary third layer of protective equipment beneath their gambeson, provided it is not visible and does not replace any armour above it, such as a Protective Cup or mouthguard.\n\nAll weapons are reproductions based on historical originals. These originals may be found in museums or drawings traceable to the period. All weapons must be blunt and within a set weight and size category, dependent upon the weapon. Metal maces, axes, swords (including falchions) and polearms are all permitted in group fights, while war hammers and weapons with hammer attachments may not be used in international events.\n\nShields are commonly used as weapons as much as a swords and other such medieval arms, with fighters choosing to combine strikes from their primary weapon alongside punches with their shield. Subsequently, shields are regulated as weapons. While being historical in design, shields must also meet a minimum weight requirement and not have narrow, sharp or metal edges.\n\n\"First place:\" Team Poland (1)\"Second place:\" Team USA (2)\"Third place:\" Team Germany (1)\n\n\"First place:\" Team Poland \"Second place:\" Team USA \"Third place:\" Team Denmark\n\n\"First place:\" Team USA \"Second place:\" International: Japan, Portugal, France, Poland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Spain.\n\nAs with all combat or full contact sports, preparation and training is a crucial part of a team's approach to competition. Despite the importance of physical training for the sport, no single training regime tailored for the physical demands of fighting in armour survives from the medieval period, and subsequently competitors often combine occasional sparring with a variety of physical training techniques.\n\n"}
{"id": "21356351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21356351", "title": "Joseph Imre", "text": "Joseph Imre\n\nJoseph B. Imre is a historian, political scientist, researcher and business entrepreneur. Joseph is the proprietor of Seasons Fine Foods and Cookery School. Joseph is a member of the Downtown Napanee Business Improvement Area (BIA), the Napanee & District Chamber of Commerce, and a volunteer at the L&A County Museum and Archives. An active member of the Canadian-Hungarian community, Imre has served as the President and founder of the Hungarian Students' Association at the University of Toronto (2002–2005); Vice-President of the Albert Apponyi Association (2000–2010); and on the Board of Directors of several Hungarian organizations including the National Alliance of Hungarians in Canada (NAHC). In 2007, Mr. Imre was awarded the Order of the Knights Cross from the 1956 Hungarian Freedom Fighters Association in Hungary. Mr. Imre is a member of the Friends of Hungary Foundation.\n\nImre graduated from the University of Toronto with an Honours Bachelor of Arts in history and political science in 2005. Upon completion of postgraduate studies at the University of Oxford (2006) he completed a master's degree in history from the University of Bristol (2007) with distinction. In 2009, Joseph completed a graduate diploma in comparative politics from the London School of Economics. Imre is a member of the Project Management Institute (PMI) where he holds additional certification in project management.\n\nMr. Imre has written extensively on medieval, early modern, and modern European history. While his academic focus is primarily Renaissance studies and the religious history of 15th century Italy, Mr. Imre has also published widely on 20th century Hungarian historiography, and the issue of Hungarian minorities in the Carpathian Basin. His graduate dissertation on Girolamo Savonarola linked the controversial figure to humanistic elements in Renaissance society and challenged existing scholarship. In his capacity as a historian, Mr. Imre regularly contributes to a number of newspapers and online blogs as a columnist and contributor. Mr. Imre is an editor with the NAHC.\n\nMr. Imre and his wife, Mrs. Jazmin Bansagi, also own and operate a farm in Lennox and Addington County in eastern Ontario. Seven Fields Farm & Orchard was founded on organic principles and sustainable approaches to stewardship that protect the land and environment. Seven Fields Farm & Orchard operates a walnut and apple orchard, hay production, and the raising of beef cattle in co-operation with other farms in the area.\n\n1. Joseph Imre. \"Burgenland and the Austria-Hungary Border Dispute in International Perspective, 1918–22.\" \"Region: Regional Studies of Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia\" 4.2 (2015): 219-246. \"Project MUSE\". Web. 2 Oct. 2015. <https://muse.jhu.edu/journals/region/toc/reg.4.2.html>.\n\n2. Alethea Kewayosh, Loraine Marrett, Usman Aslam, Richard Steiner, Margaret Moy Lum-Kwong, Joseph Imre and Abigail Amartey. \"Improving Health Equity for First Nations, Inuit and Métis People: Ontario’s Aboriginal Cancer Strategy II.\" \"Longwoods Healthcare Quarterly\", Vol. 15, Special Issue (2015): 33-41. Web. <http://www.longwoods.com/content/24007>.\n\n3. Contributor, \"Shaping North America: From Exploration to the American Revolution,\" James E. Seelye Jr. and Shawn Selby Ed. ABC-CLIO (August, 2018). Web. https://www.abc-clio.com/ABC-CLIOGreenwood/product.aspx?pc=A4703C\n\n"}
{"id": "3284078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3284078", "title": "Limping bimetallism", "text": "Limping bimetallism\n\nLimping bimetallism was a monetary system in the United States that was partially dependent on silver but primarily dependent on gold. It was developed after the abandonment of bimetallism and the adoption of the gold standard in 1873. The Bland–Allison Act of 1878 allowed the coining of new silver dollars, thus creating this system. Contrary to popular belief, the limping standard was not abandoned upon enactment of the Gold Standard Act of 1900.\n\n"}
{"id": "57729230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57729230", "title": "List of monuments and memorials in Taganrog", "text": "List of monuments and memorials in Taganrog\n\nThis is a list of monuments and memorials in Taganrog. Taganrog, on the Black Sea in the Kuban area, Rostov Oblast, of Russia is of high historical importance relative to its small size, and relatedly has unusual memorials. The city was founded, like St. Petersburg later, to provide Russia with a seaport.\n\nPeter I Monument in Taganrog\n\nOnly significant monument in Russia to Alexander I, emperor of Russia from 1801 to 1825.\n\nCheckhov was born in Taganrog. Chekhov Monument in Taganrog.\n\nGaribaldi sojourned here.\n"}
{"id": "25314773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25314773", "title": "Luiz Francisco Rebello", "text": "Luiz Francisco Rebello\n\nLuiz Francisco Rebello (September 10, 1924; Lisbon – December 8, 2011; Lisbon) was a Portuguese lawyer, playwright, drama critic, theatrical historian, translator and essayist.\n\nLuiz Francisco Rebello is the most credited Portuguese theatrical historian, being the author of works published on Portuguese theatrical history and theatre criticism and he is a prolific playwright.\n\nRebello was a founder and a member of the direction of several experimental theatre groups, becoming one of the founders of the “Teatro-Estúdio do Salitre” in 1946 along with Gino Saviotti and in 1948 founded the “Companheiros do Páteo das Comédias”, two of the most important experimental groups of the post-war period. Together with José Saramago, Armindo Magalhães, Manuel da Fonseca and Urbano Tavares Rodrigues Rebello was, in 1992, one of the founders of the National Front for the Defense of Culture (Frente Nacional para a Defesa da Cultura) (BDNF).\n\nHis noted anthology \"Teatro Moderno: Caminhos e figuras\" was first published in short volumes at irregular periods during the year of 1957 by “Círculo do Livro”, a label that belonged to Vítor Palla (1922–2006) and Orlando Costa (1929–2006). The 2nd edition, published in 1964, was printed on the label “Prelo”, on a theatre collection directed by Rebello himself. In the 1964 edition he added new essays such as those by Shaw, Jarry, Synge, Piscator, Oskar Schlemmer, Meyerhold, Giraudoux and Sartre.\n\nHe obtained a law degree from the University of Lisbon and chaired the Portuguese Society of Authors (Sociedade Portuguesa de Autores) for 30 years from 1973 to 2003, specializing in the area of copyright. He was also vice president of the International Confederation of Societies of Authors and Composers.\n\nIn 1971, Rebello was appointed director of the Teatro São Luiz in Lisbon, a position that he would resign the following year because of censorship disagreements. Rebello has been a contributor to numerous newspapers and magazines, including the \"Colóquio-Letras\", \"Jornal de Letras\", \"Seara Nova\" and \"Vértice\". Since 1971, he has also contributed to the \"Dicionário do Teatro Português\", the dictionary of Portuguese theatre. He has also translated the work of several influential playwrights, including William Shakespeare, Bertolt Brecht, Samuel Beckett, August Strindberg, and Henrik Ibsen.\n\nRebello has received many prestigious awards including Ordem do Infante D. Henrique (1985), the insignia of the Knight of the Order of National Merit (1991) which was granted by the French Minister of Communication George Kiejemann, and the Order of Merit (1995), given by Dr. Mário Soares and also received the Prémio da Sociedade Portuguesa de Autores in 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55393911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55393911", "title": "Mantle and pavilion (heraldry)", "text": "Mantle and pavilion (heraldry)\n\nIn heraldry, the mantle is a symbol of sovereign power and is generally reserved for royalty. In some cases its use has also been granted to other nobles, in recognition of particular merits. In ordinary rendering the mantle is usually crimson and lined with ermine. Certain arms may also display a pavilion surmounting the mantle.\n\nThe pavilion is said to be the invention of the Frenchman Philip Moreau.\n\nWhile common in continental European heraldry, the mantle and pavilion is absent in British heraldry.\n\n"}
{"id": "39225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39225", "title": "Melvin Kranzberg", "text": "Melvin Kranzberg\n\nMelvin Kranzberg (November 22, 1917 – December 6, 1995) was an American historian, and professor of history at Case Western Reserve University from 1952 until 1971. He was a Callaway professor of the history of technology at Georgia Tech from 1972 to 1988.\n\nBorn in St. Louis, Missouri, Kranzberg graduated from Amherst College, received a master's and a PhD from Harvard University and served in the Army in Europe during World War II. He received a Bronze Star for interrogating captured German prisoners and learning the location of Nazi gun emplacements. He was one of two interrogators out of nine in Patton's army that were not killed during the conflict.\n\nKranzberg is known for his laws of technology, the first of which states \"Technology is neither good nor bad; \"nor is it neutral\".\"\n\nHe was one of the founders of the Society for the History of Technology in the US and long-time editor of its journal \"Technology and Culture\". Kranzberg served as president of the society from 1983 to 1984, and edited the society's journal from 1959 to 1981, when he turned it over to Robert C. Post of the Smithsonian Institution. The society awards a yearly $4000 fellowship named after Kranzberg to doctoral students engaged in the preparation of dissertations on the history of technology. The award is available to students all over the world. In 1967 Kranzberg was awarded the Leonardo da Vinci Medal by the Society for the History of Technology.\n\nHoward P. Segal wrote an informative semi-biographical tribute to Kranzberg in the Virginia Quarterly Review.\n\nThere are two biographical articles by Robert C. Post in Technology and Culture:\n\nKranzberg helped found International Committee for the History of Technology.\n\nMelvin Kranzberg's six laws of technology. state:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "524267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524267", "title": "Meroë", "text": "Meroë\n\nMeroë (; also spelled \"Meroe\"; Meroitic: \"Medewi\" or \"Bedewi\"; Arabic: and \"Meruwi\"; Ancient Greek: , \"Meróē\") is an ancient city on the east bank of the Nile about 6 km north-east of the Kabushiya station near Shendi, Sudan, approximately 200 km north-east of Khartoum. Near the site are a group of villages called Bagrawiyah. This city was the capital of the Kingdom of Kush for several centuries. The Kushitic Kingdom of Meroë gave its name to the \"Island of Meroë\", which was the modern region of Butana, a region bounded by the Nile (from the Atbarah River to Khartoum), the Atbarah and the Blue Nile.\n\nThe city of Meroë was on the edge of Butana and there were two other Meroitic cities in Butana: Musawwarat es-Sufra and Naqa. The first of these sites was given the name Meroë by the Persian king, Cambyses, in honor of his sister who was called by that name. The city had originally borne the ancient appellation \"Saba\", named after the country's original founder. The eponym \"Saba\", or \"Seba\", is named for one of the sons of Cush (see: Genesis 10:7). The presence of numerous Meroitic sites within the western Butana region and on the border of Butana proper is significant to the settlement of the core of the developed region. The orientation of these settlements exhibit the exercise of state power over subsistence production.\n\nThe Kingdom of Kush which housed the city of Meroë represents one of a series of early states located within the middle Nile. It is one of the earliest and most impressive states found south of the Sahara. Looking at the specificity of the surrounding early states within the middle Nile, one's understanding of Meroë in combination with the historical developments of other historic states may be enhanced through looking at the development of power relation characteristics within other Nile Valley states.\n\nThe site of the city of Meroë is marked by more than two hundred pyramids in three groups, of which many are in ruins. They have the distinctive size and proportions of Nubian pyramids.\n\nMeroë was the south capital of the Napata/Meroitic Kingdom, that spanned the period c. 800 BCE – c. 350 CE. According to partially deciphered Meroitic texts, the name of the city was Medewi or Bedewi. Excavations revealed evidence of important, high ranking Kushite burials, from the Napatan Period (c. 800 – c. 280 BCE) in the vicinity of the settlement called the Western cemetery. The culture of Meroë developed from the Twenty-fifth Dynasty of Ancient Egypt, which originated in Kush. The importance of the town gradually increased from the beginning of the Meroitic Period, especially from the reign of Arakamani (c. 280 BCE) when the royal burial ground was transferred to Meroë from Napata (Gebel Barkal). In the fifth century BCE, Greek historian Herodotus described it as \"a great city...said to be the mother city of the other Ethiopians.\" The city of Meroë was located along the middle Nile which is of much importance due to the annual flooding of the Nile river valley and the connection to many major river systems such as the Niger which aided with the production of pottery and iron characteristic to the Meroitic kingdom that allowed for the rise in power of its people.\nRome's conquest of Egypt led to border skirmishes and incursions by Meroë beyond the Roman borders. In 23 BCE the Roman governor of Egypt, Publius Petronius, to end the Meroitic raids, invaded Nubia in response to a Nubian attack on southern Egypt, pillaging the north of the region and sacking Napata (22 BCE) before returning home. In retaliation, the Nubians crossed the lower border of Egypt and looted many statues (among other things) from the Egyptian towns near the first cataract of the Nile at Aswan. Roman forces later reclaimed many of the statues intact, and others were returned following the peace treaty signed in 22 BCE between Rome and Meroë under Augustus and Amanirenas, respectively. One looted head though, from a statue of the emperor Augustus, was buried under the steps of a temple. It is now kept in the British Museum.\n\nThe next recorded contact between Rome and Meroë was in the autumn of 61 CE. The Emperor Nero sent a party of Praetorian soldiers under the command of a tribune and two centurions into this country, who reached the city of Meroë where they were given an escort, then proceeded up the White Nile until they encountered the swamps of the Sudd. This marked the limit of Roman penetration into Africa.\n\nThe period following Petronius' punitive expedition is marked by abundant trade finds at sites in Meroë. L.P. Kirwan provides a short list of finds from archeological sites in that country. However, the kingdom of Meroë began to fade as a power by the 1st or 2nd century CE, sapped by the war with Roman Egypt and the decline of its traditional industries.\n\nMeroë is mentioned succinctly in the 1st century CE Periplus of the Erythraean Sea:\na stele of Ge'ez of a unnamed ruler of Aksum thought of as (Ezana) was found at the site of Meroë; from his description, in Greek, that he was \"King of the Aksumites and the Omerites,\" (i.e. of Aksum and Himyar) it is likely this king ruled sometime around 330. While some authorities interpret these inscriptions as proof that the Axumites destroyed the kingdom of Meroe, others note that archeological evidence points to an economic and political decline in Meroe around 300. Moreover, some view the stele as military aid from Aksum to Meroe to quell down the revolt and rebellion by the Nuba. However, conclusive evidence and proof to which view is correct is not currently present.\n\nHebrew oral tradition avers that Moses, in his younger years, had led an Egyptian military expedition into Sudan (Kush), as far as the city of Meroë, which was then called Saba. The city was built near the confluence of two great rivers and was encircled by a formidable wall, and governed by a renegade king. To ensure the safety of his men who traversed that desert country, Moses had invented a stratagem whereby the Egyptian army would carry along with them baskets of sedge, each containing an ibis, only to be released when they approached the enemy's country. The purpose of the birds was to kill the deadly serpents that lay all about that country. Having successfully laid siege to the city, the city was eventually subdued by betrayal of the king's daughter, who had agreed to deliver the city unto Moses on condition that he would consummate a marriage with her, under the solemn assurance of an oath.\n\nMeroë was the base of a flourishing kingdom whose wealth was centered around a strong iron industry, as well as international trade involving India and China. Metalworking is believed to have gone on in Meroë, possibly through bloomeries and blast furnaces, and Archibald Sayce reportedly referred to it as \"the Birmingham of Africa\", because of perceived vast production and trade of iron (a contention that is a matter of debate in modern scholarship).\n\nThe centralized control of production within the Meroitic empire and distribution of certain crafts and manufactures may have been politically important with their iron industry and pottery crafts gaining the most significant attention. The Meroitic settlements were oriented in a savannah orientation with the varying of permanent and less permanent agricultural settlements can be attributed to the exploitation of rainlands and savannah-oriented forms of subsistence.\n\nAt the time, iron was one of the most important metals worldwide, and Meroitic metalworkers were among the best in the world. Meroë also exported textiles and jewelry. Their textiles were based on cotton and working on this product reached its highest achievement in Nubia around 400 BCE. Furthermore, Nubia was very rich in gold. It is possible that the Egyptian word for gold, \"nub\", was the source of name of Nubia. Trade in \"exotic\" animals from farther south in Africa was another feature of their economy.\n\nApart from the iron trade, pottery was a widespread and prominent industry in the Meroe kingdom. The production of fine and elaborated decorated wares was a strong tradition within the middle nile. Such productions carried considerable social significance and are believed to be involved in mortuary rites. The long history of goods imported into the Meroitic empire and their subsequent distribution provides insight into the social and political workings of the Meroitic state. The major determinant of production was attributed to the availability of labor rather than the political power associated with land. Power was associated with control of people rather than control of territory.\n\nThe Egyptian import, the water-moving wheel, the sakia, was used to move water, in conjunction with irrigation, to increase crop production.\n\nAt its peak, the rulers of Meroë controlled the Nile Valley north to south, over a straight-line distance of more than .\n\nThe King of Meroë was an autocratic ruler who shared his authority only with the Queen Mother, or Candace. However, the role of the Queen Mother remains obscure. The administration consisted of treasurers, seal bearers, heads of archives and chief scribes, among others.\n\nAlthough the people of Meroë also had southern deities such as Apedemak, the lion-son of Sekhmet (or Bast, depending upon the region), they also continued worshipping ancient Egyptian gods that they had brought with them. Among these deities were Amun, Tefnut, Horus, Isis, Thoth and Satis, though to a lesser extent.\n\nThe collapse of their external trade with other Nile Valley states may be considered as one of the prime causes of the decline of royal power and disintegration of the Meroitic state in the 3rd and 4th centuries CE.\n\nThe Meroitic language was spoken in Meroë and the Sudan during the Meroitic period (attested from 300 BCE). It became extinct about 400 CE. The language was written in two forms of the Meroitic alphabet: Meroitic Cursive, which was written with a stylus and was used for general record-keeping; and Meroitic Hieroglyphic, which was carved in stone or used for royal or religious documents. It is not well understood due to the scarcity of bilingual texts. The earliest inscription in Meroitic writing dates from between 180-170 BCE. These hieroglyphics were found engraved on the temple of Queen Shanakdakhete. Meroitic Cursive is written horizontally, and reads from right to left like all Semitic orthographies.\n\nBy the 3rd century BCE, a new indigenous alphabet, the Meroitic, consisting of twenty-three letters, replaced Egyptian script. The Meroitic script is an alphabetic script originally derived from Egyptian hieroglyphs, used to write the Meroitic language of the Kingdom of Meroë/Kush. It was developed in the Napatan Period (about 700 - 300 BCE), and first appears in the 2nd century BCE. For a time, it was also possibly used to write the Nubian language of the successor Nubian kingdoms.\n\nIt is uncertain to which language family the Meroitic language is related. Claude Rilly has proposed that it, like the Nobiin language, belongs to the Eastern Sudanic branch of the Nilo-Saharan family. Kirsty Rowan suggests that Meroitic, like the Egyptian language, instead belongs to the Afro-Asiatic family. She bases this on its sound inventory and phonotactics, which are similar to those of the Afro-Asiatic languages and dissimilar from those of the Nilo-Saharan languages.\n\nThe site of Meroë was brought to the knowledge of Europeans in 1821 by the French mineralogist Frédéric Cailliaud (1787–1869), who published an illustrated in-folio describing the ruins. His work included the first publication of the southernmost known Latin inscription.\n\nAs Margoliouth notes in the 1911 \"Encyclopedia Britannica\", small scale excavations occurred in 1834, led by Giuseppe Ferlini, who, as Margoliouth states, \"discovered (or professed to discover) various antiquities, chiefly in the form of jewelry, now in the museums of Berlin and Munich.\" Margoliouth continues,\n\nIn June 2011, the Archeological Sites of Meroë were listed by UNESCO as World Heritage Sites.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24362620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24362620", "title": "Mills Archive", "text": "Mills Archive\n\nThe Mills Archive was established in 2002 to preserve and protect records of milling heritage and to make them freely available to the public. It is governed by the Mills Archive Trust, which is a charity that is based at Watlington House, Reading, Berkshire.\n\nThe Mills Archive Trust was established in 2002. A grant of £50,000 from the Heritage Lottery Fund enabled the Archive to launch its internet catalogue in 2003. Other early supporters of the trust included the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings (SPAB), and the Hampshire Mills Group, which donated £200.\n\nThe Archive was set up in response to an expressed need to preserve and where possible integrate the various threatened sources of information on the windmills and watermills of the UK and the rest of the world. It was hoped to prevent material being lost on the death of a molinologist by creating a suitable repository.\n\nIn 2012, the Chairman Dr Ron Cookson was awarded an MBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours List for Services to Heritage.\n\nOriginally a Charitable Trust (Reg no 1091534), the Trust became a Foundation-style Charitable Incorporated Organisation (Reg no 1155828) in February 2014. In November 2016 the Archive was awarded the status of a Nationally Accredited Archive Service.\n\nThe Archive aims to focus on (but not be totally restricted to) traditional mills and milling, and seeks to acquire relevant historical and contemporary documentary and illustrative material and small artefacts. The main initial priority is records relating to UK mills, millers and millwrights, chiefly during the 18th–21st centuries, but the Archive plans to extend its coverage worldwide.\n\n\"Traditional mills\" include mills, similar structures and industrial processes that are or were powered by wind, water, muscle or other power sources, but not the massive modern industrial mills used for steel production and similar large-scale industrial enterprises. \"Milling\" includes millwrighting and the place of the mill in social and economic as well as technological and architectural history.\n\nThe Mills Archive was originally set up to care for four historically important Foundation Collections: those belonging to the SPAB, Mildred Cookson, Ken Major and Alan Stoyel. Since its establishment it has been given more than 40 further collections, both large and small.\n\nThe Archive currently holds more than 2,000,000 items, most of which can be freely inspected by appointment at the Research Centre at Watlington House. Its catalogue is free to use, contains some 50,000 records and is rapidly expanding. The Archive also maintains a library containing more than 2,000 books on mills, in various languages. Most have been added to the online library catalogue. Apart from its wide use as a source of information about mills and their machinery in archival documents, books and journals, the Mills Archive has become a focus for family history researchers.\n\nMore information can be found on the Archive's main website. \n"}
{"id": "14019074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14019074", "title": "Mohamed Hedi El Amri", "text": "Mohamed Hedi El Amri\n\nMohamed Hedi El Amri (born in Kalâa Seghira, 1906–1978) was a Tunisian historian and writer.\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Ez-Zitouna at age 20, he started teaching in an Islamic school in Tunis. In 1928 he was designated as the headmaster of an Islamic school in Monastir where he was to spend about 20 years of his life.\n\nHe contributed to the Tunisian and Egyptian press with many publications dealing with diverse subjects including politics, culture, religion and sociology. From the time of Tunisian independence he frequently participated in national radio shows intended to elevate the public's awareness and comprehension of national issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "1908351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908351", "title": "Moneyer", "text": "Moneyer\n\nA moneyer is a private individual who is officially permitted to mint money. Usually the rights to coin money are bestowed as a concession by a state or government. Moneyers have a long tradition, dating back at least to ancient Greece. They became most prominent in the Roman Republic, and continued into the Empire.\n\nMoneyers were not limited to the ancient world. When European coinage was revived during the Middle Ages, moneyers again were trusted to create currency on behalf of kings and potentates. For a large part of that era, virtually all coins in circulation were silver pennies, and these often bore the name or other identification of the moneyer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2764094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2764094", "title": "Murat Belge", "text": "Murat Belge\n\nMurat Belge (born March 16, 1943) is a Turkish academic, translator, literary critic, columnist, civil rights activist, and occasional tour guide.\n\nBelge was a member of the organizing committee for a two-day academic conference that started on September 24, 2005, held at Bilgi University in Istanbul, titled \"Ottoman Armenians During the Decline of the Empire: Issues of Scientific Responsibility and Democracy\". The conference offered an open dispute of the official Turkish account of the Armenian Genocide, and was denounced by nationalists as treacherous.\n\nBelge's remarks led to his facing a ten-year jail sentence for criticizing the judicial ban; he was acquitted.\n\nA leaked Turkish military memo, dated November 2006 (reported by \"Nokta\" in March 2007, prior to being shut down), lists journalist deemed \"trustworthy\" and \"untrustworthy\" by the Turkish Armed Forces. Murat Belge was listed as \"untrustworthy.\"\n\nSince 1996 he has been a professor of comparative literature at Istanbul Bilgi University.\n\nHe is the son of political journalist Burhan Asaf Belge (who was once married to Hungarian-American socialite Zsa Zsa Gabor from 1937 to 1941), nephew of Yakup Kadri Karaosmanoğlu, and the grandson of a former governor of Bursa. He received his Ph.D. from Istanbul University in 1969 on leftist criticism in English literature. From his student years in the 1960s, until the early 1980s, he had been an active participant of a close-knit left-wing group of scholars at Istanbul University's Department of English Language and Literature; he used to be a Marxist himself. His fellow scholars of those years included Berna Moran, Mina Urgan , Cevat Capan, Aksit Gokturk and Vahit Turhan. After the military coups of 1971 and 1980, he was compelled to leave academic life and began publishing left-wing classics with Iletisim Press in Istanbul.\n\nSince the early 1980s, he has been guiding tours of Istanbul's \"yalılar\" (waterfront mansions).\n\nHe is married to actress Hale Soygazi.\n\nFor several years he wrote columns for the daily \"Radikal\", before shifting to \"Taraf\" in June 2008. On December 14, 2012, Belge stepped down from his post at \"Taraf\" together with editor-in-chief Ahmet Altan, assistant editor Yasemin Çongar and columnist Neşe Tüzel, and he has written occasionally for openDemocracy since 2001.\n\nBelge has translated works of James Joyce, Charles Dickens, D. H. Lawrence, William Faulkner and John Berger into Turkish. He is an active member of the Helsinki Citizens Assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2467056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2467056", "title": "Otto Brahm", "text": "Otto Brahm\n\nOtto Brahm (born Otto Abrahamson on 5 February 1856 in Hamburg; died 28 November 1912 in Berlin) was a German drama and literary critic, theatre manager and director. His productions were noted for being accurate and realistic. He was involved in the foundation of the progressive \"Die Freie Bühne\" (English: \"Free Stage\") company, of which he became president and producer. He also edited the company's weekly magazine of the same name, but later changed its name to \"Die neue Rundschau\".\n\nBrahm also managed the Deutsches Theater in Berlin, and was responsible for modernising its output.\n\nFrom Heinz Herald's memoir of Max Reinhardt entitled \"Bildnis Eines Theater-Mannes\", regarding the birth of modern theatre: \nIn Germany, the explosion came in 1889, embodied by Otto Brahm. Her place was the newly grounded vacant stage, her occasion is the premiere of a young unknown poet. His name was Gerhart Hauptmann, his play \"Before Sunrise\". Opinions collapsed, as the representatives of a tradition-bound art calcified with the glowing, indomitable, new style. A well-known Berlin doctor swung a symbolic and a little rude noose after the curtain had fallen. A battle raged, but soon it became clear as day that naturalism had triumphed here on the whole line.\n\nThe confirmation of this victory occurred when Brahm shortly afterwards took over the direction of the Deutsches Theater, which at that time was still considered to be the leader in Berlin and the Reich. But even Otto Brahm could not fulfill the theoretical ideal of consistent naturalism because it was and is unfulfillable. . . . Art, even naturalistic art, is a choice, omission. The verdict that was literally painted on Brahm’s stage, \"art and nature are one only,\" could not be realized.\n\nBrahm saw this too soon. His house-poets, led by Ibsen and Hauptmann, supplied him with pieces that one could by no means call naturalistic. They used more naturalistic means, but they also omitted and increased. . . . . [However] there was no longer a stilted language, no idealized decoration, no off-the-ground stage style. The Brahms theater was true, honest, decent, manly. One did not pretend in Brahm’s theatre, one played as lifelike as possible. A great ensemble helped Otto Brahm with this effort. Every time an elementary new stage personality appears, a keen actor seems to form itself around this center. Here were the best Rittner, Sauer, Hermann Muller, Bassermann and Else Lehmann: performers who met exactly the Brahmian style of the naturalness, truthfulness, sober behavior. Through hotly controversial Hauptmann's first performances and many pieces of the naturalistic period, Brahm and his cast rose to what they undoubtedly considered to be the pinnacle of their achievement: the peculiar and pompous cycle of Ibsen.\n\n[However], Brahm was not a director. This position, which is unknown in our current sense, was more the role of a subaltern. Brahm sat in on the rehearsals in the dark auditorium and tried to bring his actors to where he wanted them by talking after rehearsing. He was a brilliant dramaturg. He was in close contact with his authors, selected the pieces for his playing schedule, occupied them, found and hired new ensemble members. A young actor of his theater, who had noticed him on a short visit to Salzburg and stayed with him for almost a decade, was called Max Reinhardt.” 12-14\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12729663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12729663", "title": "Papiya Ghosh", "text": "Papiya Ghosh\n\nPapiya Ghosh was a historian of South Asian history and a professor of the University of Patna, Patna, India. She was found murdered on 3 December 2006, along with her elderly housemaid, Malti Devi, apparently as a result of an attempted burglary.\n\nGhosh, an ethnic Bengali, was the sister of Tuktuk Kumar, an officer of Indian Administrative Service from the West Bengal cadre, and a close associate of the writer Jug Suraiya from the \"Times of India\".\n\nPapiya Ghosh was born on 8 October 1953, in Dumka (Bihar, India). She was the third of four daughters of Ujjal Kumar Ghosh, an IAS officer of the Bihar Cadre, and his wife Purnima Ghosh. Her father was a victim of what was widely held to be a political murder in 1957. The four sisters were subsequently brought up by their mother, who took up a job as a school teacher to support her daughters after the murder of her husband.\n\nPapiya attended St Joseph's Convent High School in Patna, where she was school topper and elected Head Girl in 1971. She earned an undergraduate degree in History from the Patna Women's College (Patna University) and was also elected Premier of the Students' Union. Papiya was an avid debater, dramatist and writer from an early age, and, together with her sister Tuktuk, became something of a household name as a regular contributor to Kookie Kol, a column in the Junior Statesman, which was a popular youth magazine of the time.\n\nAs Patna University was closed down indefinitely in 1975 during Jayaprakash Narayan's agitation, Papiya Ghosh moved to Delhi University where she completed her MPhil and PhD, studying the pre-independence civil disobedience movement in Bihar (1930–34). After her PhD, she taught History at Delhi University for two years. In 1979, she decided to move back to Patna. This was in part to support her mother, who was by then living on her own, but also because she wanted to live and work in the midst of the land, people and society which formed the main focus of her academic research.\n\nIn Patna, Papiya taught first at Patna Women's College and then at the history department at Patna University. A highly regarded teacher, she took great personal pains to ensure that the content and quality of instruction her students received was at par with the best universities in the country. This was especially challenging given the general decline of standards at Patna University, the very limited funding available, deteriorating facilities, and official indifference.\n\nProfessional recognition was hard to come by, given the situation in Patna and its remoteness from the more high-profile academic centres of India. Nevertheless, she was awarded the prestigious Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship (twice), as well as fellowships from the Indian Institute of Advanced Study (Shimla) and Teen Murti Bhavan (New Delhi). She also contributed a number of scholarly articles to prestigious academic journals.\n\nA follower of the philosopher Rumi, Papiya Ghosh was drawn towards Sufi mysticism, which she saw as a unique amalgam of influences truly representative the assimilative culture of the Indian sub-continent. She also had a keen interest in modern literature, especially writings by and about Indian and Pakistani women.\n\nPapiya Ghosh was murdered on the night of 2/3 December 2006, along with her elderly maid, Malti Devi. The post-mortem report listed 34 stab wounds inflicted on her, including to the eyes, throat and stomach. Of the six men accused on the murder, four have been arrested, tried and convicted and two of the named accused, who were absconding, have since been arrested in August 2012 by Bihar Police. However, the trial in their case has yet to commence.\n\nAfter her PhD, Papiya Ghosh taught History at Daulat Ram College (Delhi University) briefly, and then at the Hindu College, University of Delhi for two years. In 1979, she moved back to Patna, where she taught at her alma mater, Patna Women's College (Patna University), until 1991. She was subsequently promoted and moved to the Department of History, Patna University.\n\nHer research subjects related, inter-alia, to the impact of Partition in 1947, the plight of Dalit Muslims, peoples' movements, popular syncretic culture, secularism, the contribution of the underprivileged to political processes etc. She was particularly interested in questions of identity, especially how people identify themselves individually and collectively when removed from their place of origin. She spent much of her time travelling to remote areas, meeting key sources (within and outside the country), and conducting first-hand primary research using her own limited resources. She would devote hours on translation, roping in friends and well-wishers to help. She taught herself to read and write Urdu, as many of the manuscripts she studied were written in the Nastaliq script. She immersed herself in local traditions (many obscure, some dying out) and was also a keen student of diasporic sub-continental populations, both contemporary (such as the Bangladeshi population in London) and historical (such as in Mauritius and the West Indies).\n\nShe was:\n\nDetails of other publications are available at https://web.archive.org/web/20090627075058/http://www.papiyaghosh.com/. The Nobel laureate Amartya Sen released a commemorative volume in Papiya Ghosh's memory – Resurrection of the State, A Saga of Bihar – on 4 February 2013 in Patna. The volume is edited by Sunita Lall and Shaibal Gupta.\n\nThe following awards have been instituted in Papiya Ghosh's name by the Purnujjal Papiya Ghosh Memorial Trust:\n\n"}
{"id": "10373718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10373718", "title": "Persian-Sassanid art patterns", "text": "Persian-Sassanid art patterns\n\nPersian-Sassanide art patterns have similarities with the art of the Bulgars, Khazars, and Saka-Scythians, and have recurred in Asia. They predominantly feature motifs of fighting animals. Gold was frequently used as a base for their art creations.\n\nThe characteristic patterns of Persian-Sassanide art exhibit similarities to the art of the Bulgars, Khazars, and Saka-Scythian, and have recurred at different locations in the Central Asia region. A \"griffin fighting an elk\" motif from the Treasure of Nagyszentmiklós, found in 1799 in what is today Romania, bears similarities with another griffin & elk motif discovered in the tombs of Hsiung-nu (early Huns, also Xiongnu) during Colonel Pyotr Kuzmich Kozlov expedition (1907–09) near Urga (Outer Mongolia).\n\nA gold symbolization of \"animals-in-fight\" has been also found in the vicinity of the city of Turpan, the principal crossroad of the northern Silk Road. Golden \"animals-in-fight\" have also been identified as 3rd – 2nd century B.C. Mongolia (or southern Siberia), being characteristic of Hsiung-nu or Xiongnu.\n\nThe early history of the Nomads is not well recorded, which changed after their contact with cultures possessing written history. Nomadic people of the vast steppes of Asia were a major force in history. Their power was not in the empires they built, but rather the turmoil they created among ancient civilizations such as China or Persia, impacting their historical development substantially. It is believed that the nomads ranged widely, forever moving on for sake of richer grazing for their horses and sheep. Migrations were often seasonal. Their skill at extracting gold was unprecedented. In summer, during the tribe's seasonal migration, a fleece would be weighted on a riverbed to collect particles of alluvial gold. Upon the tribes' return, the fleece would be sheared, burned, and a gold ingot the size of a horse's hoof would result. The \"tay tayak\" (the horse's hoof) was a unit of gold for a long period, which was used as a measure of an amount of golden metal rather than money, since gold was not fabricated as currency. Using gold was a spiritual practice, as emblems of priestly office, prizes for physical prowess in ritual sport, or as adornment of the sacral ceremony of marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2819328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2819328", "title": "Peter of Dusburg", "text": "Peter of Dusburg\n\nPeter of Dusburg (; ; died after 1326), also known as Peter of Duisburg, was a Priest-Brother and chronicler of the Teutonic Knights. He is known for writing the \"Chronicon terrae Prussiae\", which described the 13th and early 14th century Teutonic Knights and Old Prussians in Prussia.\nPeter's dates of birth and death are unknown, although he lived from the second half of the 13th century until the first half of the 14th century. Initially it was thought he was from Duisburg, Germany, and in some texts he is referred to as \"Peter of Duisburg\". Other research indicates he may have instead come from Doesburg, now in the Netherlands.\n\nIn 1324, probably while in Königsberg, Peter began working on his \"Chronicon terrae Prussiae\" on behalf of Grand Master Werner von Orseln. By 1326, he had finished expanding upon the now-lost work of a Latinist who had written about the campaigns of the early Prussian Crusade. That version was subsequently revised to include events up to 1330.\n\nFrom 1331-35, Nikolaus von Jeroschin translated Peter's chronicle into Middle High German on behalf of Grand Master Luther von Braunschweig.\n\n"}
{"id": "37951504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37951504", "title": "Phan Huy Chú", "text": "Phan Huy Chú\n\nPhan Huy Chú (1782–1840) was a Vietnamese mandarin administrator, scholar and historian. He was a son of the scholar and official Phan Huy Ích, who had been a noted official in the short-lived Tay Son regime.\n\nChú was recruited to go on a mission to China in 1825, the 6th year of the reign of Minh Mệnh. In 1828 he was appointed deputy governor of Thừa Thiên Province, and then in 1829 governor of Quảng Nam Province. Thereafter he continued to serve the court as a diplomatic envoy, including on a fact-finding trip in 1833 that took him to Singapore and Batavia in the Dutch East Indies. Upon returning from the trip he submitted a report under the title \"Summary Record of a Sea Journey.\"\n\nHe is best known as author of \"Lich Trieu Hien Chuong Loai Chi\" (1819).\n"}
{"id": "30455377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30455377", "title": "Philippe-Charles Schmerling", "text": "Philippe-Charles Schmerling\n\nPhilippe-Charles or Philip Carel Schmerling (2 March 1791 Delft – 7 November 1836, Liège) was a Dutch/Belgian prehistorian, pioneer in paleontology, and geologist. He is often considered the founder of paleontology.\n\nIn 1829 he discovered the first Neanderthal fossil in a cave in Engis, the partial cranium of a small child, although it was not recognized as such until 1936, and is now thought to be between 30,000-70,000 years old. It was the second discovery of a fossil of the genus Homo after the discovery of the Red Lady of Paviland in Wales in 1823.\n\nPhilipus Carel, later Philippe-Charles, Schmerling was the son of Dutch parents, Jan Carel, a trader from 's-Hertogenbosch, North Brabant, and Lucia van Koijck from Dordrecht. Schmerling studied medicine in Delft and Leiden. Afterwards he served as physician in the Dutch army between 1812 and 1816. On 17 October 1821 in Venlo he married Elizabeth Douglas. They had two daughters, in 1823 and 1825.\n\nIn 1822, Schmerling and his wive moved to Liège at which university he continued his studies and became Doctor of Medicine in 1825. His doctoral dissertation was on the subject \"De studii psychologiae in medicina utilitate et necessitate\".\n\nIn 1829 he excavated fossils in what are now named the Schmerling Caves, in the region of Flémalle, in the Meuse valley, between Liège and Huy. Schmerling investigated about sixty calcareous caves of the provinces of Liège and Luxembourg during the following years.\n\nHe became correspondent of the Royal Institute of the Netherlands in September 1836.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34114783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34114783", "title": "Price V. Fishback", "text": "Price V. Fishback\n\nPrice V. Fishback (born c. 1955) is an economic historian. He is a professor of Economics at the University of Arizona and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. His research on American economic history has included employment and labor in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries especially in the coal industry, and government programs of the New Deal. His work has been recognised by the Cliometric Society via their awarding him a \"Clio Can\" in recognition of his \"exceptional support of cliometrics\". Prior to arriving to the University of Arizona, Fishback was an Assistant and later Associate Professor at the University of Georgia.\n\nFishback received a B.A. with honors in Mathematics and Economics from Butler University in 1977. He then received his M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Washington in 1979 and 1983, respectively. His Ph.D. Thesis was entitled \"Employment Conditions of Blacks in the Coal Industry, 1900-1930.\" His advisor was Robert Higgs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4570855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4570855", "title": "Reborrowing", "text": "Reborrowing\n\nReborrowing is the process where a word travels from one language to another and then back to the originating language in a different form or with a different meaning. This path is indicated by A→B→A, where A is the originating language, and can take many forms. A reborrowed word is sometimes called a Rückwanderer (German, a 'returner').\n\nThe result is generally a doublet, where the reborrowed word exists alongside the original word, though in other cases the original word may have died out. Alternatively, a specific sense of a borrowed word can be reborrowed as a semantic loan; for example, English \"pioneer\" was borrowed from Middle French in the sense of \"digger, foot soldier, pedestrian\", then acquired the sense of \"early colonist, innovator\" in English, which was reborrowed into French. In other cases the term may be calqued (loan translated) at some stage, such as English \"ready-to-wear\" → French \"prêt-à-porter\" (1951) → English \"prêt-à-porter\" (1957).\n\nIn some cases the borrowing process can be more complicated and the words might move through different languages before coming back to the originating language. The single move from one language to the other is called \"loan\" (see loanword). Reborrowing is the result of more than one loan, when the final recipient language is the same as the originating one.\n\nA similar process occurs when a word is coined in a language based on roots from another language, and then the compound is borrowed into this other language or a modern descendant. In the West this primarily occurs with classical compounds, formed on Latin or Ancient Greek roots, which may then be borrowed into a Romance language or Modern Greek. Latin is sufficiently widespread that Latinate terms coined in a non-Romance language (such as English or German) and then borrowed by a Romance language (such as French or Spanish) are not conspicuous, but modern coinages on Ancient Greek roots borrowed into Modern Greek are, and include terms such as τηλεγράφημα \"telegrafíma\" ('telegram').\n\nThis process is particularly conspicuous in Chinese and Japanese, where in the late 19th and early 20th century many terms were coined in Japanese on Chinese roots (historically terms had often passed via Korea), known as , then borrowed into modern Chinese (and often Korean) with corresponding pronunciation; from the mid 20th century such borrowings are much rarer. Often these words could have been coined in Chinese, but happened to be coined first in Japanese; notable examples include\n\n"}
{"id": "7109236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7109236", "title": "Ribbon (award)", "text": "Ribbon (award)\n\nA ribbon is an award made from ribbon and presented to mark an achievement. Such ribbons usually have a pin, brooch or bridle clip as a fastener with which the award can be attached to clothing, animals, walls, or other surfaces.\nAward ribbons can be simply a flat piece of ribbon, a flat-folded ribbon, or fancier manipulations of the ribbon material, such as rosettes. A rosette consists of ribbon that is pleated or gathered and arranged in a circle so that it resembles a rose, usually with streamer ribbons attached. Some ribbon rosettes will also have loops, petals and star points as part of the design whilst using Satin ribbons, Velvet ribbons, Sheer ribbons, Lamé ribbons, Tartan ribbons and printed ribbons including personalised printed ribbons to promote the sponsor, event or the reason for giving.\n\nRibbons are usually imprinted with information about the award, such as the name of the event, the sponsoring organization, the placement (such as first place, second place, etc.), and the date. More sophisticated awards also include the name of the recipient, special motifs and logos.\n\nRibbon rosette awards come in many sizes from 1 Tier (1 layer) up to super sized rosettes of (as standard) 20 Tiers. They can be glued together or sewn, however the centre disks always need to be stuck on with glue.\n\nA ribbon rosette is made up with card backing disks to attach the pleated ribbon onto thus make the tiers of the rosette. Star points, petals and loops can be added, then chosen fastener, then tails and then the centre disk.\n\nRosettes can be used for awards for shows and events for all types: businesses, sports, hobbies and animals:- horses, dogs, cats, cattle, birds and ferrets, horticulture, business achievements, education as well as all disciplines of sports.\n\nCelebration Rosettes are given to mark Birthdays, Valentine's Day, Christmas, Easter, Halloween or other special occasions like Weddings, Christenings and even Funerals. They can also come with a ribbon attachment allowing the rosettes to be hung up to display both sides, as some rosettes are produced back to back, creating two sides.\n\nRosettes are also produced in different shapes other than a circle, like ovals, squares, diamonds, rectangles and hearts.\n\nRibbon awards also come in different varieties like, medals, sashes and banners all of which can be personalised at many bespoke and wholesale companies from around the world.\n\nFlower rosettes seem to be new to the market since 2012, where particular flowers are stylised into a rosette. Flower rosettes so far include Daffodil Rosettes, Carnation Rosettes and Rose Rosettes all of which can be used as a gift or an award, as a single Flower Rosette or as a bunch of Flower Rosettes depending on the occasion as its use.\n\n"}
{"id": "37814933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37814933", "title": "Ripper Street", "text": "Ripper Street\n\nRipper Street is a British TV series set in Whitechapel in the East End of London and starring Matthew Macfadyen, Jerome Flynn, and Adam Rothenberg. It begins in 1889, six months after the infamous Jack the Ripper murders. The first episode was broadcast on 30 December 2012 during BBC One's Christmas schedule and was first broadcast in the United States on BBC America on 19 January 2013. \"Ripper Street\" returned for a second eight-part series on 28 October 2013.\n\nOn 4 December 2013, it was reported that a third series would not be made due to low viewing figures for series two. Then on 11 December 2013, \"Variety\" reported negotiations between the show's producer Tiger Aspect and LoveFilm to fund future episodes, similar to Netflix funding episodes of \"Arrested Development\". On 26 February 2014, it was confirmed that Amazon Video would resurrect the show. Filming began in May 2014. Series three began streaming on Amazon UK Prime Instant Video on 14 November 2014 but has not been made available on Amazon's US site. The third series began airing on BBC America on 29 April 2015, and on BBC One on 31 July 2015.\n\nIn June 2015, the series was renewed for a fourth and fifth series. In 2016, it was announced that the show would end with the fifth series. Series 4 premiered on Amazon UK on 15 January 2016, on BBC America on 28 July 2016, and in the United Kingdom on BBC Two from 22 August 2016. The concluding fifth series premiered in full (six episodes) on Amazon UK on 12 October 2016.\n\nThe series begins in April 1889, six months since the last Jack the Ripper killing, and in Whitechapel the H Division is responsible for policing one and a quarter square miles of East London: a district with a population of 67,000 poor and dispossessed. The men of H Division had hunted the Ripper and failed to find him. When more women are murdered on the streets of Whitechapel, the police begin to wonder if the killer has returned.\n\nAmong the factories, rookeries, chop shops (food establishments), brothels and pubs, Detective Inspector Edmund Reid (Matthew Macfadyen) and Detective Sergeant Bennet Drake (Jerome Flynn) team up with former US Army surgeon and Pinkerton agent Captain Homer Jackson (Adam Rothenberg) to investigate the killings.\nThey frequently cross paths with Tenter Street brothel madam Long Susan (MyAnna Buring), who came to London with Jackson from America and lets him reside at the brothel. Their relationship becomes strained due to Jackson's attraction to one of her most profitable girls, Rose Erskine (Charlene McKenna), and because of his close involvement with Reid and H Division.\n\nReid and his wife Emily (Amanda Hale) only have one daughter, Mathilda, who was lost and presumed deceased, some months before the series begins, in a river accident during the hunt for the Ripper. The newspaper reporter, Fred Best (David Dawson), knows a dark secret about her death. Although still troubled, and despite her husband's reservations, Emily is determined to make a new life for herself by helping the fallen women of Whitechapel.\n\nThe second series is set in 1890. Emily has left Reid after he gave her false hope that Mathilda might not have drowned. Rose Erskine has left Long Susan's brothel to work as a waitress at the music hall, Blewett's Theatre of Varieties. Sergeant Drake has married another of Susan's girls, Bella. A new detective constable, Albert Flight (Damien Molony), is introduced.\n\nReid crosses swords with the ruthless Inspector Jedediah Shine (Joseph Mawle). Ten years an Inspector on the Hong Kong police force, Shine has used that experience to exert a firm grip over Limehouse’s neighbouring \"K\" Division and the emergent Chinatown that grows within it. Long Susan, happy as brothel keeper, is in debt to Silas Duggan (Frank Harper), who lent her funds to start the business, unbeknownst to Jackson who wants to leave London.\n\nHistorical backdrops to episodes in series 2 include Chinese immigration, the London matchgirls strike of 1888, electrical War of Currents, the Cleveland Street scandal, the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, Joseph Merrick (known as \"the Elephant Man\"), and the Baring crisis.\n\nIn 1894, a train accident in Whitechapel kills fifty-five civilians. At the scene of the accident, Reid, Drake, Jackson, Rose Erskine and Long Susan are reunited after a long period of separation. Reid investigates the derailment and discovers that it was caused by a heist. The organiser is Susan's solicitor, Ronald Capshaw. His intention is to steal US bearer bonds in order to bail out their financially stricken Obsidian Estates and to continue in their attempt to gentrify Whitechapel.\n\nMathilda is discovered by Capshaw to be still alive, although Reid is told by Susan that she has died since being rescued. Mathilda escapes and is picked up by Harry Ward, a teenage pimp. Receiving a tip-off where she was last seen, Reid and Bennett find her, but she runs away. Reid returns to his home and father and daughter reunite.\n\nSeries 4 opens in 1897, the year of Queen Victoria's diamond jubilee. Reid has now given up his detective work and is living in Hampton-on-Sea with Matilda. He is drawn back to Whitechapel after a visit from Deborah Goren, who urges him to return to investigate the murder of a rabbi at the hand of Isaac Bloom, whom she believes innocent.\n\nMeanwhile, Drake is now head inspector of Whitechapel and still employs Jackson, who has given up his drinking and gambling in order to save money to free Susan, who is now sentenced to hang for her crimes. When his attempts to legally free her fail, he helps to fake her death, forcing her to give up their son to be raised by Drake and his wife Rose, while Susan hides out of sight and Jackson pretends to be a grieving widower to his friends.\n\nSeries 5 continues the events of the tragic ending of series 4.\n\nA joint BBC and BBC America production written by Richard Warlow, Julie Rutterford, Declan Croghan and Toby Finlay and directed by Andy Wilson (4 episodes), Colm McCarthy (2 episodes) and Tom Shankland (2 episodes). The series includes scenes of the seedier side of life during the late Victorian era, including bare-knuckle boxing, early pornography and prostitution.\n\nTom Shankland said of the series, \"Whitechapel's not an area that was short of vicious murders and any woman found murdered with a knife in the consequent months was held up as a Ripper murder... So we’ll touch on Ripper in that way but not dig anybody up or change the canonical five... All the period depictions I’d seen of that particular crime story had almost been a bit too well behaved in a slightly slower way and shots have to be a bit wider to show off the nice furniture, but if you can think of something awful, it was happening [in Victorian London].\"\n\nThe three leads of the show, Macfadyen, Flynn and Rothenberg, have discussed how they got the roles in interviews. Macfadyen claims his involvement was all down to his interest in the 'fresh' script: \"I had a few months of nothing, then a load of scripts all came at once, and this was by far the best. It's such terrific writing; it just barrelled along. I saw the title and thought, 'This has been done before', but it was so fresh, and it had all the qualities, interest and depth of a period drama.\"\n\nRothenberg's involvement in the show was more straightforward, as he auditioned during pilot series. In an interview with both Flynn and Rothenberg, the latter states: \"I auditioned for it, got it, and then showed up. That’s as simple as it was for me.\" to which Flynn chimes in, claiming: \"it was very funny, though, ‘cause when he [Rothenberg] did show up, he was like, “I don’t know how the f*** I got here!\". Flynn's casting experience was similar: \"It was pretty basic for me. The writer, Richard Warlow, had seen me in \"Game of Thrones\", playing Bronn, and asked about casting me.\"\n\nThe first series was filmed entirely in Dublin, Ireland, in locations that included the former Clancy Barracks beside Clancy Quay and Trinity College, Dublin. Macfadyen discussed the sets in Dublin in an interview with \"The Daily Mail\", saying, \"The barracks were like a big playground, big enough to recreate a huge area of Whitechapel, and we filmed in Dublin Castle and Kilmainham Gaol, all as if it was the East End of London.\" The same article claims that \"a second series [was] commissioned even before the first episode has been publicly screened\".\n\nThe Leman Street police station and \"The Brown Bear\" pub are still on Leman Street. The Jews Orphan Asylum still exists, however it has been renamed and relocated, first to Norwood, and then to Stanmore.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Ripper Street\" was well received by critics upon release. On the review aggregator website Metacritic, the first season of the series holds a score of 72 out of 100, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". On another review aggregator website, Rotten Tomatoes, the first season features a score of 100 percent, based on 17 reviews.\n\nCritical reception of the initial two episodes was divided with some praising the show's gritty script and good acting performances, and others feeling the show was a mix of ITV's \"Whitechapel\" and Guy Ritchie's \"Sherlock Holmes\".\n\nIn his weekly review of the show, Jamie-Lee Nardone wrote of its continued improvements, \"more of this please, just perhaps not before dinner\", referencing the show's gory nature.\n\nSam Wollaston of \"The Guardian\" discussed the pros and cons of the show, claiming \"It would be easy to be negative about Ripper Street. Do we really need more on a story that's been not just done to death, but then carved up, and had its insides torn out?\" but he concludes his review stating \"[ the] script is real, alive and human. It's beautifully performed, and beautiful to look at – stylish, and stylised. The bare-knuckle fight scenes are brutal and memorable. It's proper, character-based crime drama, gripping, and yes – I'm afraid – ripping as well\".\n\nBenji Wilson of \"The Daily Telegraph\" reviewed the first episode positively, praising the performances of the three leads, which he said compensated for the \"dull grind of all the exposition\" and \"tedious\" historical references.\n\n\"PopMatters\" reviewed the debut episode, remarking: The effects of such moments are shaped by writer/creator Richard Warlow and episode director Tom Shankland’s attention to the period details: streets are sooty, gaslight creates flickering shadows, and stone floors make footsteps seem chilling. These details help make Ripper Street a compelling procedural, its long form narrative and deliberate pace different from the CSI and Law & Order clones. But the show also bears traces of contemporary influences: an underground boxing club sequence in the first episode resembles similar scenes in Sherlock Holmes (2009) so much that a coincidence is hard to imagine. Equally derivative, some overt efforts to shock viewers deliver graphic violence and some nudity, courtesy of the evolving technology of photography, as it’s inspiring an evolving “smut” industry. \n\nAhead of its debut in the US, IGN's Roth Cornet reviewed the first episode, discussing how \"the setting is handled with absolute care and a razor-sharp attention to detail, from costume and production design to the varied vocal cadences of the players, the texture and flavor of London's East End are brought to vivid life.\" The review continues to discuss the show's depiction of London's streets in the Victorian era: Ripper Street provides a gritty look at the evolving streets of London and the advent of technology at the time; be it the \"moving-picture-machine\" that is featured in \"I Need Light\" or the introduction of early forensics that follows through the series. More interesting still is that it is the dirt and bones look at the uses of said technology that is in play here. This is no wink-wink \"look at how charming early cameras were\" depiction, but rather a portrayal of the underbelly of what those cameras would have been used for. Additionally, there is engaging interplay between those who would usher in necessary change and those who are, as Jackson says, \"the barriers to progress.\" \n\n\"The Hollywood Reporter\" gave it significant praise: \"Ripper Street is a well-acted, well-written and compelling mystery series. And even better, there’s no waiting around, wishing it would improve. It’s alluring from the start.\" \"Los Angeles Times\" called it \"Well-written and acted.\"\n\nSome female critics have not been so positive about the show, disappointed by its two-dimensional portrayal of women as either repressed wives and mothers or prostitutes.\n\nJan Moir of the \"Daily Mail\" wrote that \"the torture and murder of women\" is \"enthusiastically depicted\", claiming \"there is terrible violence meted out to men and children, too, but the focus of the viciousness is always on the knicker-dropping molls and the ‘tarts’\".\n\nGrace Dent of \"The Independent\" was more satirical about the show, but was still unamused by the portrayal of women, stating \"centuries may shift and fashions may change, yet raping and murdering women has really never been as popular.\"\n\nThe show was later voted best show of 2013 in a UK public poll for the \"Radio Times\" TV guide and magazine shortly after the series had ended, ahead of \"Doctor Who\".\n\nSeries 1 was released on a region 2 (Europe) 3-disc DVD set and 3-disc BD on 18 March 2013, with the same DVDs being released in region 1 (Canada/US) on 12 March 2013.\n\nThe series 2 DVD-set, plus a 6-disc box set containing both series 1 & 2, was scheduled to be released on 27 January 2014, with region 1 DVDs of series 2 to be released on 15 April 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14661946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14661946", "title": "Roman historiography", "text": "Roman historiography\n\nRoman historiography is indebted to the Greeks, who invented the form. The Romans had great models to base their works upon, such as Herodotus (c. 484 – 425 BC) and Thucydides (c. 460 – c. 395 BC). Roman historiographical forms are different from the Greek ones however, and voice very Roman concerns. Unlike the Greeks, Roman historiography did not start out with an oral historical tradition. The Roman style of history was based on the way that the Annals of the Pontifex Maximus, or the Annales Maximi, were recorded. The Annales Maximi include a wide array of information, including religious documents, names of consuls, deaths of priests, and various disasters throughout history. Also part of the Annales Maximi are the White Tablets, or the \"Tabulae Albatae\", which consist of information on the origin of the republic.\n\nThe most well-known originator of Roman historiography was Quintus Fabius Pictor, also known as the \"Founder of Historiography\". Before the second Punic war, there was no historiography in Rome, but after, it was needed to commemorate this important occasion. Q. Fabius Pictor took up the task and wrote a history of Rome in Greek, not Latin. This choice of writing about the war in Greek arose from a need to address the Greeks and counter another author, Timaeus, who also wrote a history of Rome until the Second Punic War. Timaeus wrote with a negative view of Rome. Therefore, in defense of the Roman state, Q. Fabius Pictor wrote in Greek, using Olympiad dating and a Hellenistic style. Q. Fabius Pictor's style of writing history defending the Roman state and its actions, and using propaganda heavily, eventually became a defining characteristic of Roman historiography.\n\nQ. Fabius Pictor is known for the establishment of the \"ab urbe condita\" tradition of historiography which is writing history \"from the founding of the city\". After Q. Fabius Pictor wrote, many other authors followed his lead, inspired by the new literary form: Lucius Cincius Alimentus, Gaius Acilius, Aulus Postumius Albinus, and Cato the Elder. Cato the Elder is credited as the first historian to write in Latin. His work, the \"Origines\", was written to teach Romans what it means to be Roman. Like Q. Fabius Pictor, Cato the Elder wrote ab urbe condita, and the early history is filled with legends illustrating Roman virtues. The \"Origines\" also spoke of how not only Rome, but the other Italian towns were venerable, and that the Romans were indeed superior to the Greeks.\n\nThe Romans enjoyed serious endeavors and so the writing of historiography became very popular for upper class citizens who wanted to spend their time on worthwhile, virtuous, \"Roman\" activities. As leisure time was looked down upon by the Romans, writing history became an acceptable way to spend retirement.\n\nAlmost as soon as historiography started being used by the Romans, it split into two traditions: the annalistic tradition and the monographic tradition.\n\nThe authors who used the Annalistic tradition wrote histories year-by-year, from the beginning, which was most frequently from the founding of the city, usually up until the time that they were living in.\n\nSome annalistic authors:\n\nMonographs are more similar to the history books that we are used to today; they are usually on a single topic, but most importantly, they do not tell history from the beginning, and they are not even necessarily annalistic. An important sub category that emerged from the monographic tradition was the biography.\n\nSome monographic authors:\n\nOften, especially in times of political unrest or social turmoil, historians re-wrote history to suit their particular views of the age. So, there were many different historians each rewriting history a little bit to bolster their case. This was especially evident in the 70s BC when the social wars were going on between the populists led by Marius, and the senatorials led by Sulla. Several authors wrote histories during this time, each taking a side. Gaius Licinius Macer was anti-Sullan and wrote his history, based on Gnaeus Gellius in 16 books, from the founding of the city until the 3rd century BC, whereas Valerius Antias who was pro-Sulla, wrote a history in 75 books, from the founding of the city until 91 BC.\n\nThe historiography we most readily identify with the Romans, coming from sources such as Caesar, Sallust, Livy, Tacitus, and other minor authors, owes much to its early roots and Greek predecessors. However, contrary to the Greek form, the Roman form included various attitudes and concerns that were considered strictly Roman. As the recording of Roman history began to evolve and take shape, many characteristics came to define what we know today as Roman historiography, most notably the strong defense of and allegiance to the Roman state and its wide variety of moral ideals, the factional nature of some histories, the splitting of historiography into two distinct categories, the Annals and the Monograph, and the rewriting of history to suit the author's needs.\n\nAnnals are a year-by-year arrangement of historical writing. In Roman historiography, annals generally begin at the founding of Rome. Proper annals include whatever events were of importance for each year, as well as other information such as the names of that year's consuls, which was the basis by which Romans generally identified years. The Annal seems originally to have been used by the priesthood to keep track of omens and portents.\n\nThe \"Annales Maximi\" were a running set of annals kept by the Pontifex Maximus. The \"Annales Maximi\" contained such information as names of the magistrates of each year, public events, and omens such as eclipses and monstrous births. The \"Annales Maximi\" covers the period from the early Roman Republic to around the time of the Gracchi.\n\nGracchan Annalist seems to refer to the writers of history in annalistic form who began writing after the time of the Gracchi. Compared to other forms of annalistic history, these seem more fictionalized as Roman historians used their histories to illustrate points about their own time, and were not necessarily out to produce hard fact. Still, Gracchan annalists have produced interesting insight into the writer's own time, if not necessarily into the time on which they wrote. Sallust and Tacitus are fair examples of Gracchan Annalists.\n\nA monograph is a comprehensive work on a single subject. The monograph could be written about a single event, a technique, rhetoric, or one of any number of other subjects. For example, Pliny the Elder once published a monograph on the use of the throwing-spear by cavalry. Monographs were among the most common historical works found in Roman writings.\n\n\"Ab urbe condita\", literally \"From the founding of the city\", describes the Roman tradition of beginning histories at the founding of the city of Rome. For examples, see Tacitus, Livy, Sallust, et al. In Livy's \"Ab Urbe Condita\", much time is spent on the early history of Rome, and on the founding of the city itself. In Sallust's histories, the founding and early history of Rome is almost reduced to a single sentence. Thus, the \"ab urbe condita\" form is extremely variable while continuing to mold Roman histories.\n\n\"Senatorial History\" describes history written by or with information from a Roman Senator. Senatorial histories are generally particularly informative due to their \"insider's\" perspective. A general pattern of Senatorial histories is that they seem to invariably contain a reason that the author is writing histories instead of remaining involved in politics.\n\nSullan annalists politicized their past. They were partisans of the Sullan faction who carried on the Marius and Sulla conflict through their histories, often rewriting them to fit their own agenda. Some Sullan annalists may have been sources for Livy. Valerius Antias (fl. 80-60 BC) was a Sullan annalist but he was not viewed as a credible historian. He seems to have been trying to counter the Marian historian, C. Licinius Macer. Antias' history, written in seventy-six books, is melodramatic and often filled with exaggerations and lies. In his history, anyone named Cornelius is considered a hero and anyone named Claudius is an enemy and the opposition to the populares never went by a consistent name but were instead called \"boni\", \"optime\" or \"optimates\", implying that they were the good guys.\n\nRoman historiography is also very well known for subversive writing styles. The information in the ancient Roman histories is often communicated by suggestion, innuendo, implication and insinuation because their attitudes would not always be well received. Tacitus opposed the emperors and believed that they were one of the reasons for the decline of Rome. Tacitus even wrote disparagingly of Augustus the most celebrated and beloved of the emperors. Of course these opinions had to be veiled since they would not have gone over very well.\n\nIn Roman historiography commentarii is simply a raw account of events often not intended for publication. It was not considered traditional \"history\" because it lacked the necessary speeches and literary flourishes. Commentarii was usually turned into \"history\" later on. Many think Caesar's account of the Gallic Wars, \"Commentarii Rerum Gestarum\" (Commentaries on Things Done), was called commentarii for propagandistic purposes. They believe that it is actually \"history\" since it is so well written, pro-Roman and fits the traditional patterns of historiography.\n\nAncient Roman historians did not write for the sake of writing, they wrote in an effort to convince their audiences. Propaganda is ever present and is the function of Roman historiography. Ancient Roman historians traditionally had personal and political baggage and were not disinterested observers. Their accounts were written with the specific moral and political agendas. For example, Q. Fabius Pictor started the tradition of historiography that was concerned with both morality and history and affirmed the prestige of Roman state and its people.\n\nAncient Roman historians wrote pragmatic histories in order to benefit future statesmen. The philosophy of pragmatic history treats historical happenings with special reference to causes, conditions and results. In Roman Historiography the facts and an impression of what the facts mean are presented. Interpretation is always a part of historiography; Romans never made any pretense about it. Conflict between the facts and the interpretation of those facts indicate a good historian. Polybius, who wrote in Greek, was the first pragmatic historian. His histories have an aristocratic ethos and reveal his opinions on honor, wealth and war. Tacitus was also a pragmatic. His histories have literary merit and interpretations of facts and events. He was not purely objective, rather his judgments served a moral function.\n\nJulius Caesar was born on July 12, 100 BC into a patrician family. As a young man, he was given the position of the Flamen Dialis by his father-in-law, Cornelius Cinna. When that position was taken away by Sulla, Caesar spent a decade in Asia, earning a great reputation in the military. Upon his return to Rome, he was both elected tribunus militium and given the title of pontifex. During his time in these positions, Caesar befriended Pompey and Crassus, the two men with whom he would later form the First Triumvirate. As the years went on, recognition for Caesar's political, military, and oratory skills grew and he easily earned the positions of praetor and consul. After his consulship, Caesar gained control of the provinces of Illyricum and Cisalpine and Transalpine Gaul. In 58 BC, trouble arose in the Gallic provinces, sparking one of the most important wars of Caesar's career.\n\nThe \"De Bello Gallico\" is Caesar's account of the Gallic Wars. As the Wars were raging on, Caesar fell victim to a great deal of criticisms from Rome. \"De Bello Gallico\" is a response to these criticisms, and a way for Caesar to justify these Wars. His argument is that the Wars were both just and pious, and that he and his army attacked Gaul in self-defense. The Helvetians were forming a massive migration straight through the provinces. When a group of neighboring allies came to Caesar himself asking for help against these invading Helvetians, that was all the justification Caesar needed to gather his army. By creating an account that portrays himself as a superb military hero, Caesar was able to clear all doubts in Rome about his abilities as a leader.\n\nAlthough Caesar used this account for his own gain, it is not to say that the \"De Bello Gallico\" is at all unreliable. Many of the victories that Caesar has written about did, in fact, occur. Smaller details, however, may have been altered, and the word choice makes the reader more sympathetic to Caesar's cause. \"De Bello Gallico\" is an excellent example of the ways in which retellings of actual events can be spun to a person's advantage. For this reason, \"De Bello Gallico\" is often looked at as a commentary, rather than a piece of actual historiography.\n\nTitus Livius, commonly known as Livy, was a Roman historian best known for his work entitled \"Ab Urbe Condita\", which is a history of Rome \"from the founding of the city\". He was born in Patavium, which is modern day Padua, in 59 BC and he died there in 17 AD. Others referred to his writing as having \"patavinitas\". Little is known about his life, but based on an epitaph found in Padua, he had a wife and two sons. We also know that he was on good terms with Augustus and he also encouraged Claudius to write history.\n\n\"Ab Urbe Condita\" covered Roman history from its founding, commonly accepted as 753 BC, to 9 BC. It consisted of 142 books, though only books 1–10 and 21–45 survive in whole, although summaries of the other books and a few other fragments exist. The books were referred to as \"decades\" because Livy organized his material into groups of ten books. The decades were further split in pentads:\n\nThe purpose of writing \"Ab Urbe Condita\" was twofold: the first was to memorialize history and the second was to challenge his generation to rise to that same level. He was preoccupied with morality, using history as a moral essay. He connects a nation's success with its high level of morality, and conversely a nation's failure with its moral decline. Livy believed that there had been a moral decline in Rome, and he lacked the confidence that Augustus could reverse it. Though he shared Augustus' ideals, he was not a \"spokesman for the regime\". He believed that Augustus was necessary, but only as a short term measure.\n\nAccording to Quintillian, Livy wrote \"lactea ubertas\", or \"with milky richness\". He used language to embellish his material, including the use of both poetical and archaic words. He included many anachronisms in his work, such as tribunes having power that they did not have until much later. Livy also used rhetorical elaborations, such as attributing speeches to characters whose speeches could not possibly be known. Though he was not thought of as a first-rate historian, his work was so extensive that other histories were abandoned for Livy. It is unfortunate that these other histories were abandoned, especially since much of Livy's work is now gone, leaving holes in our knowledge of Roman history.\n\nC. Sallustius Crispus, more commonly known as Sallust, was a Roman historian of the 1st century BC, born c. 86 BC in the Sabine community of Amiternum. There is some evidence that Sallust's family belonged to a local aristocracy, but we do know that he did not belong to Rome's ruling class. Thus he embarked on a political career as a \"novus homo\", serving as a military tribune in the 60s BC, quaestor from 55 to 54 BC, and tribune of the plebs in 52 BC. Sallust was expelled from the senate in 50 BC on moral grounds, but quickly revived his career by attaching himself to Julius Caesar. He served as quaestor again in 48 BC, as praetor in 46 BC, and governed the new province in the former Numidian territory until 44 BC. Sallust's political career ended upon his return to Rome and Caesar's assassination in 44 BC.\n\nWe possess in full two of the historical works that have been convincingly ascribed to Sallust, the monographs, \"Bellum Catilinae\" and \"Bellum Jugurthinum\". We have only fragments of the third work, the \"Historiae\". There is less agreement about the authorship of some other works that have, at times, been attributed to him. In \"Bellum Catilinae\", Sallust outlines the conspiracy of Catiline, a brash and ambitious patrician who tried to seize power in Rome in 63 BC. In his other monograph, Sallust used the Jugurthine War as a backdrop for his examination of the development of party struggles in Rome in the 1st century BC. The \"Historiae\" describe in general the history of the years 78–67 BC.\n\nAlthough Sallust's purposes in writing have been debated over the years, it seems logical to classify him as a senatorial historian who adopted the attitude of a censor. The historical details outlined in his monographs serve as paradigms for Sallust. In \"Bellum Catilinae\", Sallust uses the figure of Catiline as a symbol of the corrupt Roman nobility. Indeed, much of what Sallust writes in this work does not even concern Catiline. The content of \"Bellum Jugurthinum\" also suggests that Sallust was more interested in character studies (e.g. Marius) than the details of the war itself. With respect to writing style, the main influences on Sallust's work were Thucydides and Cato the Elder. Evidence of the former's influence includes emphasis on politics, use of archaisms, character analysis, and selective omission of details. The use of such devices as asyndeton, anaphora, and chiasmus reflect preference for the old-fashioned Latin style of Cato to the Ciceronian periodic structure of his own era.\n\nWhether Sallust is considered a reliable source or not, he is largely responsible for our current image of Rome in the late republic. He doubtlessly incorporates elements of exaggeration in his works and has at times been described as more of an artist or politician than historian. But our understanding of the moral and ethical realities of Rome in the 1st century BC would be much weaker if Sallust's works did not survive.\n\nTacitus was born c. 56 AD in, most likely, either Cisalpine or Narbonese Gaul. Upon arriving in Rome, which would have happened by 75, he quickly began to lay down the tracks for his political career. By 88, he was made praetor under Domitian, and he was also a member of the \"quindecimviri sacris faciundis\". From 89 to 93, Tacitus was away from Rome with his newly married wife, the daughter of the general Agricola. 97 saw Tacitus being named the consul suffectus under Nerva. It is likely that Tacitus held a proconsulship in Asia. His death is datable to c. 118.\n\nThere is much scholarly debate concerning the order of publication of Tacitus' works; traditional dates are given here.\n\nTacitus' style is very much like that of Sallust. Short, sharp phrases cut right to the point, and Tacitus makes no bones about conveying his point. His claim that he writes history \"sine ira et studio\" (\"without anger and partiality\") (\"Annales\" I.1) is not exactly one that is true. Many of his passages ooze with hatred towards the emperors. Despite this seemingly obvious partisan style of writing, much of what is said can go under the radar, which is as Tacitus wanted things to be. His skill as an orator, which was praised by his good friend Pliny, no doubt contributes to his supreme mastery of the Latin language. Not one to mince words, Tacitus does not waste time with a history of Rome \"ab urbe condita\". Rather, he gives a brief synopsis of the key points before he begins a lengthier summary of the reign of Augustus. From there, he launches into his scathing account of history from where Livy would have left off.\n\nGaius Suetonius Tranquillus (Suetonius) is most famous for his biographies of the Julio-Claudian and Flavian emperors and other notable historical figures. He was born around 69 to an equestrian family. Living during the times of the Emperor Trajan and having a connection to Pliny the Younger, Suetonius was able to begin a rise in rank in the imperial administration. In c. 102, he was appointed to a military tribune position in Britain, which he did not actually accept. He was, though, among the staff for Pliny's command in Bithynia. During the late period of Trajan's rule and under Hadrian, he held various positions, until he was discharged. He had a close proximity to the government as well as access to the imperial archives, which can be seen in his historical biographies.\n\nSuetonius wrote a large number of biographies on important literary figures of the past (\"De Viris Illustribus\"). Included in the collection were notable poets, grammarians, orators, historians, and philosophers. This collection, like his other works, was not organized chronologically. Not all of it has survived to the present day, but there are a number of references in other sources to attribute fragments to this collection.\n\nHis most famous work, though, is the \"De Vita Caesarum\". This collection of twelve biographies tells the lives of the Julio-Claudian and Flavian Emperors, spanning from Julius Caesar to Domitian. Other than an introduction genealogy and a short summary of the subject's youth and death, the biographies do not follow a chronological pattern. Rather than chronicling events as they happened in time, Suetonius presents them thematically. This style allowed him to compare the achievements and downfalls of each emperor using various examples of imperial responsibilities, such as building projects and public entertainment. However, it makes dating aspects of each emperor's life and the events of the early Roman Empire difficult. It also completely removes the ability to extrapolate a causal sequence from the works. Suetonius's purpose was not a historical recount of events, though, but rather an evaluation of the emperors themselves.\n\nSuetonius's style is simple; he often quotes directly from sources that were used, and artistic organization and language does not seem to exist. He addresses points directly, without flowery or misleading language, and quotes from his sources often. However, he is often criticized that he was more interested in the interesting stories about the emperors and not about the actual occurrences of their reigns. The style, with which he writes, primarily stems from his overarching purpose, to catalogue the lives of his subjects. He was not writing an annalistic history, nor was he even trying to create a narrative. His goal was the evaluation of the emperors, portraying the events and actions of the person while they were in office. He focuses on the fulfillment of duties, criticizing those that did not live up to expectations, and praising bad emperors for times when they did fulfill their duties.\n\nThere are a variety of other lost or incomplete works by Suetonius, many of which describe areas of culture and society, like the Roman Year or the names of seas. However, what we know about these is only through references outside the works themselves.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18540659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18540659", "title": "Rıza Nur", "text": "Rıza Nur\n\nRıza Nur (August 30, 1879 in Sinop–September 8, 1942 in Istanbul) was a Turkish surgeon, politician and writer. He was prominent in the years immediately after the First World War, where he served as a cabinet minister but was subsequently marginalised, and became a critic of the new regime.\n\nAfter graduating from the Military Medical School in 1901 Rıza Nur went on to work as a surgeon at Gülhane Military Hospital before returning to the Military Medical School as an academic in 1907. Before this, an early posting had seen him serve on the border with Bulgaria where his job was to check if imported flour was contaminated with killer germs, after the Sultan had claimed this to be the case. The somewhat foolish nature of the work, as well as the refusal of his superiors to supply Rıza with a microscope and other basic scientific tools, helped to convince him that Abdul Hamid II's rule was backward, corrupt and leading Turkey into severe decline. \n\nHe had also engaged in what he called in his memoir a period of \"philandering,\" during which he contracted gonorrhea twice, experiences that, along with his medical training, informed his 1907 book \"Protection from Venereal Diseases\".\n\nHe entered politics following the adoption of a constitutional monarchy but was imprisoned and later exiled for coming into conflict with the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP) administration, remaining a dissenting voice from abroad. Feeling that Turkey was too reliant on Germany but accepting that the country needed a close relationship with a bigger power to prosper he toyed with the idea of a United States mandate in Turkey in the immediate aftermath of World War I.\n\nReturning to Turkey in 1919 he was a founder member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and was appointed Minister of National Education in 1920 and Minister of Health and Public Assistance in 1921, as well as serving as the envoy at the 1921 Treaty of Moscow and the Conference of Lausanne. For Kemal Atatürk, Rıza was an important appointment as his presence in government, along with that of Ahmet Ferit, lent weight to Atatürk's claims to being a uniting force, as both men had been opponents of the CUP which provided most government ministers.\n\nAt Lausanne Rıza was sent as assistant to the head of the Turkish delegation İsmet İnönü. It was he who proposed the motions recognising the Grand National Assembly as the legitimate government of Turkey, the end of the monarchy but the continuing control of the Caliphate by the Turkish government. However whilst at Lausanne he also came to blows with the former Prime Minister of Greece Eleftherios Venizelos over the issue of the Pontic Greeks. Indeed what the Allies saw as Rıza's intransigence over both this issue and that of the Armenians led to a Yugoslavian delegate claiming that Rıza was \"beginning to show the cloven hoof\".\n\nRıza Nur had negative views of Albanians as being inclined to banditry and other vices which formed his view to press for their exclusion from the population exchange (1923) to Turkey of which Greece agreed. Nur expressed displeasure that Albanians had arrived as \"Turks\" from Greece contravening the exchange agreement and that they were resettled in areas such as Kartal, Pendik and Erenköy, west of İzmit considered to be high quality lands and in Ankara. Nur also accused İzmir governor Abdülhalik Renda of encouraging his Albanian compatriots (refugees and immigrants) to resettle from other Anatolian regions to İzmir, claims that Renda denied. Nur also had negative views of Circassians in Turkey and along with the Albanians viewed them as a threat to the Turkish state due to developing rival nationalisms.\n\nFollowing the formation of the Turkish Republic, Rıza Nur fell out of favour and left Turkey in 1926 after the attempt on the life of Atatürk at Izmir. Rıza condemned the executions of Mehmet Cavit Bey and the other alleged assassination conspirators arguing that, whilst he personally disliked the men who had been his own political opponents, he felt that they had not been involved in the plot and so were unjustly killed. Embittered at the fall-out with his former ally, Rıza also wrote widely about Atatürk's alleged alcoholism. Returning from exile in Paris and Alexandria after Atatürk's death, in 1942 he published the journal \"Tanrıdağı\", which supported Turanism and pan-Turkism. The journal's name refers to the Tien Shan mountain range in Mongolia, a region inhabited by ancient Turkic tribes. \n\nRıza Nur was also a noted writer on a number of topics, with his most well-known work being a history of Turkey in 14 volumes.\n\nHe died at the age of 63 and was buried at the Merkezefendi Cemetery, Istanbul.\n\n"}
{"id": "50813098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50813098", "title": "Sabine G. MacCormack", "text": "Sabine G. MacCormack\n\nSabine MacCormack (1941–2012) was a German-American historian of Late Antiquity and Colonial Latin America.\n\nBorn Sabine Oswalt in Frankfurt, Germany, in 1941, she grew up seeing the turmoil and violence of World War II. After receiving her \"Abitur\" from a Classical Gymnasium, she studied Classical Philology and History at the Goethe University Frankfurt from 1960-1961, but then switched to studying Modern History at the University of Oxford. After graduating from Oxford with her B.A. in 1964, she earned a diploma in archives from the University of Liverpool in 1965 and then worked as a Teaching Fellow in Classics and Legal History at the University of Sydney until 1967. After working at Collins and Sons Publishers for a time, she returned to the University of Oxford to undertake doctoral study in late antiquity at the University of Oxford. She earned her D. Phil. at Oxford in 1974 with a doctoral dissertation on late antique art and panegyric, under the direction of Peter Robert Lamont Brown. After graduation, she worked in the publishing field at Phaedon Press until 1979 (during which time she translated several scholarly works), but then was offered a tenure-track assistant professor position at the University of Texas at Austin in 1980. In 1982 she moved to Stanford University to take up a joint position in the Departments of Classics and History. She then accepted a position as the Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History and Professor of Classics at the University of Michigan in 1990 and then the position of Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen Professor for the Study of Human Understanding at the University of Michigan in 1997. In 2003 she accepted the position of Reverend Theodore Hesburgh Professor of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame.\n\nWhile her scholarship continues to have a great impact, she was also a charismatic instructor at both the graduate and undergraduate levels, inspiring many of her students to pursue Late Antiquity as a field of study. A woman of firm opinions, she enjoyed inviting students and colleagues to long salon style evenings at her home to discuss scholarship and politics (whether at Stanford, Ann Arbor, or South Bend).\n\nIn addition to her scholarship and teaching, MacCormack was an accomplished artist (working in sketching and watercolors) as well as a master of knitting,\n\nMacCormack died while gardening at her home on June 16, 2012.\n\nMacCormack was a prolific scholar. She already published a \"Concise Encyclopedia of Greek and Roman Mythology\" (Glasgow: William Collins and Sons) under her maiden name Oswalt in 1969. She revised her doctoral dissertation which she published as \"Art and Ceremony in Late Antiquity\" (Berkeley and Los Angeles: The University of California Press) in 1981. She then shifted to Colonial Latin American History and published \"Religion in the Andes: Vision and Imagination in Early Colonial Peru\" (Princeton: Princeton University Press ) in 1991. She returned to the field of Late Antiquity with her book \"The Shadows of Poetry: Vergil in the Mind of Augustine\" (Berkeley and Los Angeles: the University of California Press) in 1998. She then published \"On the Wings of Time: Rome, the Incas, Spain, and Peru\" (Princeton: Princeton University Press) in 2007. She was working on at least two books at the time of her death, and also published over 60 articles in scholarly journals and edited volumes.\n\nIn addition to the endowed chairs listed above, MacCormack won many major awards for her scholarship. Her book \"On the Wings of Time\" earned the James A. Rawley Prize in Atlantic History as well as the John Edwin Fagg Prize for Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin American History from the American Historical Association. She was awarded fellowships at Dumbarton Oaks in Byzantine History and Pre-Columbian Studies, in 1977 and 1987 respectively. She was granted a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1999, and was elected a Fellow of the Medieval Academy of America in 2000. MacCormack also earned the Distinguished Achievement Award of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation's in 2001. She was also elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2805984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2805984", "title": "Saul Friedländer", "text": "Saul Friedländer\n\nSaul Friedländer (; born October 11, 1932) is an Israeli/American historian and currently a professor emeritus of history at UCLA.\n\nSaul Friedländer was born in Prague to a family of German-speaking Jews. He grew up in France and experienced the German Occupation of 1940–1944. From 1942 until 1946, Friedländer was hidden in a Catholic boarding school in Montlucon, near Vichy. While in hiding, he converted to Roman Catholicism and later began preparing for the Catholic priesthood. His parents attempted to flee to Switzerland, were arrested instead by Vichy French \"gendarmes\", turned over to the Germans and were gassed at the Auschwitz concentration camp. Not until 1946 did Friedländer learn the fate of his parents.\n\nAfter 1946, Friedländer grew more consciously aware of his Jewish identity and became a Zionist. In 1948, Friedländer emigrated to Israel on the Irgun ship \"Altalena\". After finishing high school, he served in the Israeli Army. From 1953-55, he studied political science in Paris. Later, Friedländer served as secretary to Nachum Goldman, then President of the Zionist Organization and the World Jewish Congress. In 1959, he became an assistant to Shimon Peres, then vice-minister of defense. Late in the 1980s, Friedländer moved politically further to the left and was active in the Peace Now group.\n\nIn 1963, he received his PhD from the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva, where he taught until 1988. Friedländer taught at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and at Tel Aviv University. In 1969 he wrote a biography of Kurt Gerstein. Since 1988 he has been Professor of History at the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1998 Friedländer chaired the Independent Historical Commission (IHC) that was tasked with investigating German media giant Bertelsmann's activities under Hitler's Third Reich. The study, written together with Norbert Frei, Trutz Rendtorff, Reinhard Wittmann, was published in October 2002 in a 800-page report. It confirmed the findings, first reported by Hersch Fischler in The Nation, that Bertelsmann collaborated with the Nazi regime before and during World War II. Bertelsmann subsequently expressed regret \"for its conduct under the Nazis, and for later efforts to cover it up\".\n\nFriedländer sees Nazism as the negation of all life, and as a type of death cult. He has argued that the Holocaust is such a horrific event that its horror is almost impossible to put into normal language. Friedländer sees the anti-semitism of the Nazi Party as unique in history, since he maintains that Nazi anti-semitism was distinctive for being \"redemptive anti-semitism\", namely a form of anti-semitism that could explain all in the world and offer a form of \"redemption\" for the anti-semitic.\n\nFriedländer is an Intentionalist on the origins of the Holocaust question. However, Friedländer rejects the extreme Intentionalist view that Adolf Hitler had a master plan going back to the time when he wrote \"Mein Kampf\" for the genocide of the Jewish people. Friedländer, through his research on the Third Reich, has reached the conclusion that there was no intention to exterminate the Jews of Europe before 1941. Friedländer's position might best be deemed moderate Intentionalist.\n\nIn the 1980s, Friedländer engaged in a spirited debate with the West German historian Martin Broszat over his call for the \"historicization\" of Nazi Germany. In Friedländer's view, Nazi Germany was not and cannot be seen as a normal period of history. Friedländer argued that there were three dilemmas, and three problems involved in the \"historicization\" of the Third Reich.\n\nThe first dilemma was that of historical periodization, and how long-term social changes could be related to an understanding of the Nazi period. Friedländer argued that focusing on long-term social changes such as the growth of the welfare state from the Imperial to Weimar to the Nazi eras to the present as Broszat suggested changed the focus on historical research from the particular of the Nazi era to the general \"Longue durée\" of 20th-century German history. Friedländer felt that \"relative relevance\" of the growth of the welfare state under the Third Reich, and its relationship to post-war developments would cause historians to lose their attention to the genocidal politics of the Nazi state. The second dilemma Friedländer felt that by treating the Nazi period as a \"normal\" period of history, and by examining the aspects of \"normality\" might run the danger of causing historians to lose interest in the \"criminality\" of the Nazi era. This was especially problematic for Friedländer because he contended that aspects of \"normality\" and \"criminality\" very much overlapped in the everyday life of Nazi Germany. The third dilemma involved what Friedländer considered the vague definition of \"historicization\" entailed, and it might allow historians to advance apologetic arguments about National Socialism such as those Friedländer accused Ernst Nolte and Andreas Hillgruber of making. However, Friedländer conceded that Broszat was not an apologist for Nazi Germany like Nolte and Hillgruber. Friedländer noted that though the concept of \"historicization\" was highly awkward, partly because it opened the door to the type of arguments that Nolte and Hillgruber advanced during the \"Historikerstreit\", Broszat's motives in calling for the \"historicization\" were honourable. Friedländer used the example of a \"longue durée\" view of Italian history had allowed historians like Renzo De Felice to seek to rehabilitate Mussolini as a modernizing dictator trying to pull Italy up from underdevelopment; and argued that a similar approach to German history would have the same effect with Hitler. Friedländer maintained the comparison of Nazi Germany with Fascist Italy as modernizing dictatorships did not work because Fascist Italy did not commit genocide, and he argued that it was genocide that made the Third Reich unique. Friedländer felt that Broszat's \"longue durée\" view of German history with stress on the continuities-many of them positive-between different eras would diminish the Holocaust down as an object of study.\n\nThe first problem for Friedländer was that the Nazi era was too recent and fresh in the popular memory for historians to deal with it as a \"normal\" period as for example 16th century France. The second problem was the \"differential relevance\" of \"historicization\". Friedländer argued that the study of the Nazi period was \"global\", that is it belongs to everyone, and that focusing on everyday life was a particular interest for German historians. Friedländer asserted that for non-Germans, the history of Nazi ideology in practice, especially in regards to war and genocide were vastly more important than \"Alltagsgeschichte\" (\"history of everyday life\"). The third problem for Friedländer was that the Nazi period was so unique that it could not easily be fitted into the long-range view of German history as advocated by Broszat. Friedländer maintained that the essence of National Socialism was that it \"tried to determine who should and should not inhabit the world\", and the genocidal politics of the Nazi regime resisted any attempt to integrate it as part of the \"normal\" development of the modern world. The debates between Broszat and Friedländer were conducted through a series of letters between 1987 until Broszat's death in 1989. In 1990, the Broszat-Friedländer correspondences were translated into English, and published in the book \"Reworking the Past: Hitler, The Holocaust, and the Historians' Debate\" edited by Peter Baldwin.\n\nFriedländer's 1997 book, \"Nazi Germany and the Jews\" was written as a reply to Broszat's work. The second volume, \"The Years of Extermination: Nazi Germany and the Jews, 1939-1945\" appeared in 2007. Friedländer's book is \"Alltagsgeschichte\" (history of everyday life), not of \"Aryan\" Germans nor of the Jewish community, but rather an \"Alltagsgeschichte\" of the persecution of the Jewish community.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2773024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773024", "title": "Talât Sait Halman", "text": "Talât Sait Halman\n\nTalât Sait Halman, GBE (July 7, 1931 – December 5, 2014) was a famous Turkish poet, translator and cultural historian. He was the first Minister of Culture of Turkey. From 1998 onward, he taught at Bilkent University as the dean of the Faculty of Humanities and Letters.\n\nHalman received his B.A. from Robert College in Istanbul. In the mid-1950s he received his master's degree from Columbia University in political science, international relations and international law.\n\nDuring his long academic career, Professor Halman taught at Columbia University, Princeton University (1965–71) and (1972–80), the University of Pennsylvania and New York University, where he also served as Chairman of the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Literatures. He taught at Bilkent University in Ankara from 1998, rising to become the Dean of the Faculty of Humanities and Letters. While there, he helped to found a program in Turkish languages and literature with a goal of introducing new critical approaches.\n\nHis honors include Columbia University's Thornton Wilder Prize for lifetime achievement as translator, an honorary doctorate from the Bosphorus University, a Rockefeller Fellowship in the Humanities, the UNESCO Medal, and \"Knight Grand Cross, the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire\". ).\n\nIn 1971, he served as Turkey's first Minister of Culture. During his tenure, he coordinated the whirling dervishes' landmark first tour of the US in 1971. In 1976 he oversaw the first American museum tour of historical and cultural artifacts from the Ottoman Sultans' palace. From 1980 to 1982, he was Turkey's first Ambassador for Cultural Affairs. Based in New York, he inaugurated a comprehensive program of Turkish cultural activities. From 1991 to 1995 he was a Member of UNESCO's Executive Board.\n\nHe served as a Member of the Executive Committee of the PEN American Center and worked at the Center's Translation Committee. He was a long-time member of the Poetry Society of America and was a Member of the Editorial Board of World Literature Today from 1967.\n\nIn 1971, during her visit to Turkey, Queen Elizabeth II conferred a Knight Grand Cross (GBE) on Professor Halman.\n\nTalat Sait Halman was also a well-known translator into English as well as Turkish. His books in English include two collections of his poems (\"Shadows of Love\", published in Canada, and \"A Last Lullaby\", published in the United States), Contemporary Turkish Literature, Modern Turkish Drama, Living Poets of Turkey, three books of the 13th century Anatolian mystic folk poet Yunus Emre, Rumi and the Whirling Dervishes (with Metin And), Suleiman the Magnificent - Poet, Turkish Legends and Folk poems, Tales of Nasreddin Hodja, and others. His 1984 book on Celalettin Rumi preceded and contributed to the wave of Rumi enthusiasm in the United States in the 1990s. His books on Rumi, Nasrettin Hoca, and Turkish Legends books are widely available throughout Turkey. He also published books featuring selections from the work of Fazıl Hüsnü Dağlarca, Orhan Veli Kanık, Sait Faik Abasıyanık, and Melih Cevdet Anday. His renditions of three Turkish plays (I, Anatolia by Güngör Dilmen, Old Photographs by Dinçer Sümer, and In Ambush by Cahit Atay) have also been published.\n\nHis books in Turkish include nine collections of his original poems, two massive anthologies of the poetry of ancient times, a book of Ancient Egyptian poems, the selected poems of Wallace Stevens and Langston Hughes, an anthology of living American poets, a book of American woman poets, his verse translations of Shakespeare's Complete Sonnets, a book of Eskimo poems, a one-actor play featuring Shakespeare, etc. He has translated Robinson Jeffers' version of \"Medea\"', Neal Simon's \"Lost in Yonkers\"', Dear Liar\" (based on George Bernard Shaw-Mrs Patrick Campbell letters) and Eugene O'Neill's \"The Iceman Cometh\" (for the two latters plays he won Turkey's top play translation awards.) He was the first Turkish translator of William Faulkner.\n\nIn poetry Talat Sait Halman found, as he is quoted in a biographical essay listed below: \"freedom of intellectual and emotional exploration; freedom in creative prospects...\" (\"Festschrift\", p. 5)\n\nIn 2000, Professor Talat Sait Halman was honored on his 70th birthday with a Festschrift (a volume of scholarly articles compiled by colleagues as a tribute to an eminent scholar). Professor Halman's \"Festschrift\", published by Syracuse University Press and edited by Dr. Jayne Warner, is titled, \"Cultural Horizons: a Festschrift in honor of Talat S. Halman\". Volume I runs 617 pages and includes contributions by 71 scholars. Volume II is a Curriculum Vitae, running 184 pages and accounting for all of Professor Halman's vocational, literary and artistic activities and contributions (up to 1999) under five rubrics: (1) Monographs, (2) Prose, (3) Poetry, (4) Lectures, Speeches, Poetry Readings, Conferences and Special Programs, and (5) Media Events and Productions. In 2005, Professor Halman edited and translated (with Associate Editor Jayne L. Warner) an anthology of Turkish love poems covering the entire span of Turkish poetry. \"Nightingales and Pleasure Gardens: Turkish Love Poems \" (Syracuse University Press, 2005). The first section of \"Premodern poems,\" includes love poems, mystical love poems, classical lyrics, poems by the Ottoman Sultans and poems of wandering folk-poets. In the second part of the book, Professor Halman provides \"Love Poems from the Turkish Republic.\" In 2006 Syracuse also published a retrospective anthology of Professor Halman's collected poems, fiction, drama, essays and other writings, edited by Jayne Warner: \"The Turkish Muse: Views and Reviews\".\n\nAs a man of such diverse talents and accomplishments, he has made his own version of a Turkish proverb his guideline. Punning on the common Turkish proverb \"There is but one path for the mind\" (Aklin Yolu Birdir) Professor Halman, in the spirit of tolerance modeled by Jelaluddin Rumi, asserts instead: \"There are a \"thousand\" paths for the intellect.\" (Aklin Yolu Bindir). This transformed version of the proverb is the title of the introductory biographical chapter in the Festschrift Vol. I, pp. 2–36 (English version, pp. 2–19.) \"Aklın Yolu Bindir\" (published by Turkiye Bankasi, no date, but this volume appeared near the turn of the millennium) is also the title of an interview-format autobiography edited by Cahide Birgul. This biographical interview runs to 519 pages and also features many photos of Professor Halman and his family, both predecessors and progeny. The book also features other illustrations, newspaper cartoons, newspaper mentions, etc. Over the course of the last decade Professor Halman, together with his daughter Defne Halman, has presented many readings of Poems by the 13th-century Turkish 'Ur-poet' Yunus Emre (born 1321). One couplet that he has especially emphasized in many of his talks is from the following poem by Yunus Emre:\n\n\"We regard no one's religion as contrary to ours\"\n\n\"True love is born when all faiths are united as a whole. \"\n\nProfessor Halman's father, Admiral \"Sait Halman\" served in the Turkish War of Independence (for which service he was decorated) and in World War II. (\"Festschrift\", p. 4) Professor Halman's father Sait also published many translations and wrote many books on naval and military history including a monograph on the Piri Reis map, the oldest extant map showing the New World. Professor Halman's mother Iclal (Ijlal) was a member of the prestigious Nemlizade family. Both lineages sprang from the Trabzon area in Northeast Anatolia near the Black Sea. In fact the last name \"Halman\" is derived from the Byzantine era Greek name of the village Derin Kuyu (\"Deep Well\"); in the Byzantine era, the village was known as \"Holamana.\" Atatürk interpreted the name to be a combination of two words: word \"hal\" (new, contemporary, even in some contexts a spiritual state) and \"man\". When during the institution of the Surname Law, Turks were transitioning from Islamic naming patterns, choosing European style names, and self-selecting surnames, Atatürk expressed appreciation for \"Admiral Sait Halman\"'s choice of a name befitting the vision of the new Turkish Republic. (\"Festschrift, \"p. 4)\n\nAs indicated on page four of Jayne Warner's biographical introduction in Professor Halman's Festschrift, in 1960 Professor Halman married \"Seniha Taskiranel\". Professor Halman's daughter, \"Defne Halman\", born May 13, 1972 is a well known media personality, actress and artist currently living and working in Turkey. His son, \"Sait Salim\" Halman (1966–1983) was extremely proficient in math and science.\n\n\"Henry Glasse\", co-director of Indiana University's Turkish studies program has written of Professor Halman: \"At a time of narrowing vision, of fragmentation and cowardice in the academy, Talat Sait Halman offers a heroic model of the intellectual. He has given the world works of an astonishing range of topics while unifying his creations with stylish grace and preserving a high sense of responsibility. Talat Halman has written clearly and publicly about subjects that matter to humanity, and through his perfect translations, through books at once scholarly and popular, he has worked valiantly and elegantly to close the gap of ignorance that divides the United States and Turkey.\" (Festschrift, p. 86)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36375877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36375877", "title": "Tom Brooks (writer)", "text": "Tom Brooks (writer)\n\nTom Brooks (writer and theorist), born in London, England, is British author, draftsman and a proponent of Prehistoric geometry theories.\n\nBrooks was born in London and attended East Sheen Grammar School before returning to his family home in Devon where he attended Colyton Grammar School. His career included time spent in the Royal British Navy along with being a Marketing director and a draftsman.\n\nBrooks has concentrated on theorizing upon the layout and geometry of ancient sites in Britain and has published three books on the subject; The Hand of Man, Prehistoric Geometry in Britain and 'Seeing Around Corners' – Geometry in Stone Age Britain – The Proof. In a survey of over 1500 ancient sites in Britain, Brooks claims that many were constructed by prehistoric man on a connecting grid of isosceles triangles spiraling outwards from Silbury Hill (pictured) with each triangle pointing to the next site. Monuments that comprised the grid included hillforts, standing stones, churches and stone circles such as Stonehenge. Interviewed in the Daily Telegraph, Brooks said that his proposed \" \"...triangle navigation system may have been used for trading routes among the expanding population and also been used by workers to create social paths back to their families while they were working on these new sites.\"\" Brooks added \"Created more than 2,000 years before the Greeks were supposed to have discovered such geometry, it remains one of the world's biggest civil engineering projects.\" Archaeologists have made the criticism that many such patterns can be easily found as Britain is so rich in ancient sites of different types from different periods.\n\n\n\n"}
