{"id": "50373701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50373701", "title": "A Palace Concert", "text": "A Palace Concert\n\nA Palace Concert () is a Chinese Tang Dynasty silk painting showing ten court ladies and two standing servant maidens around a large rectangular table. Some court ladies are depicted drinking tea, while others drink wine. The four women at the far end are presumably responsible for playing music and livening up the mood. The musical instruments depicted, from left to right, are bamboo pipes, guqin, pipa and flute. One of the servant maidens plays a clapper to maintain beat. A small dog is depicted under the table. The artist and the precise year of the painting are unknown. The painting is housed in the National Palace Museum in Taipei, Taiwan.\n\nThe hairstyles are combed in one direction on top, while others are combed in two directions and tied into knots around the ears. In addition to a floral headdress, these all indicate some of the popular Tang dynasty fashions. The woven bamboo table, cusped crescent stools, winged wine cups and the style of the lute playing with a large pick showcase late Tang dynasty customs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47521348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47521348", "title": "Ali Khamenei's fatwa against nuclear weapons", "text": "Ali Khamenei's fatwa against nuclear weapons\n\nA fatwa by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of Iran, against the acquisition, development and use of nuclear weapons dates back to the mid-1990s though its first public announcement is reported to have occurred on October 2003, which was followed by an official statement at a meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna two years later on August 2005.\n\nSome analysts have questioned either the existence, applicability and/or constancy of the fatwa. According to Khalaji, Khamenei may alter his fatwa under critical circumstances, as did his predecessor, Ayatollah Khomeini, on some civil and political issues. According to Gareth Porter writing in \"Foreign Policy\", Iran's aversion to nuclear weapons is sincere because of the \"historical episode during its eight-year war with Iraq\", and Iran never sought revenge for Iraq's chemical attacks on Iran, which killed 20,000 Iranians and severely injured 100,000 more. According to Mehdi Khalaji, the fatwa is also considered to be consistent with Islamic tradition.\n\nThe fatwa is included in the fatwa section of Khamenei's official website, and it was referred to in remarks by both US President Barack Obama and Khamenei himself.\n\nAccording to Gareth Porter, the fatwa was issued for the first time in the mid-1990s in a letter that was never publicly released. The fatwa was issued \"without any fanfare\" responding to a request from an official \"for his religious opinion on nuclear weapons\".\n\nIn October 2003, Khamenei issued an oral fatwa that forbade the production and using any form of weapon of mass destruction.\nTwo years later, in August 2005, the fatwa was cited in an official statement by the Iranian government at a meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna. It stated that the production, stockpiling and use of nuclear weapons were forbidden under Islam.\n\nIran's nuclear program has been a subject of international debate for decades. The Iranian government claims that the purpose of its nuclear development is to produce electricity, and Khamenei said that it fundamentally rejects nuclear weapons, but experts believe that Iran is technically able to enrich uranium for producing a bomb within a few months.\n\nFour days after the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) agreement, Khamenei delivered a speech, highlighting his fatwa and rejecting the claim that the nuclear talks, rather than Iran's religious abstinence, prevented Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons: \n\nThe Iranian official website for information on its nuclear program has provided numerous instances of public statements by Khamenei in which he voices his opposition to pursuit and development of nuclear weapons in moral, religious and Islamic juridical terms. Khamenei's official website specifically cites a 2010 version of those statements in the fatwa section of the website in Farsi as a fatwa on \"Prohibition of Weapons of Mass Destruction\": Also, he said during a speech delivered on 9 April 2015 in a meeting with a group of panegyrists: \n\nThe fatwa has been widely discussed by international officials and was referred to in remarks by US President Barack Obama.\nIn a statement on a conversation with Hasan Rouhani, Obama said: A similar statement is quoted from John Kerry, saying: \n\nThe fatwa is regarded as consistent with a set of rules in Islamic tradition that prohibit weapons that unselectively kill women, children and the elderly.\n\nQuestions have been raised by some experts thinktanks affiliated with the US and Israel on the fatwa's existence, authenticity and impact and on whether it was only a political statement that lacks the authority of a religiously-binding fatwa. James Risen of \"The New York Times\" noted that Khamenei said \"that it was a mistake for Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya to give up his nuclear weapons program\". Some analysts raised the possibility that Khamenei might be lying by using taqiyya, which is religious dissembling. In 2015, an open letter to Obama, posted on Iranian.com, reportedly from a nephew of Ali Khamenei, stated that Khamenei practiced taqiyya with regard to the fatwa. On November 1, 2015, \"The Jerusalem Post\" also noted that the fatwa came after President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani had admitted the nuclear option was explored and referred to it in an interview. However, according to the Iranian nuclear hope website, Rafsanjani's interview, when it was initially published, was \"skewed by Zionist media,\" and Rafsanjani said that \"there was no reason to go toward the military aspect of nuclear issues, we did not want to build nuclear weapons.\"\n\nAccording to Abbas Milani, whether the fatwa \"actually exists and even whether Mr. Khamenei is entitled to issue fatwas and finally how changeable are fatwas are all contested matters\". While Seyyed Hossein Mousavian, head of the Iranian Foreign Relations Committee from 1997 to 2005 and a research scholar at Princeton University, recalls seeing the letter containing the anti-nuclear fatwa issued in the mid-1990s in office of the Iranian Supreme National Security Council, Karim Sadjadpour argues that the references to the fatwa by the US government may be done to give the Iranians a route to compromise on the basis of religious beliefs rather than pressure from US-led sanctions.\n\nAccording to Khalaji, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, \"fatwas are issued in response to specific circumstances and can be altered in response to changing conditions\". He argued that Khomeini altered some of his former viewpoints on issues such as taxes, military conscription, women's suffrage and monarchy as a form of government and so Khamenei may likewise modify supplanting his nuclear fatwa under critical circumstances. Similarly, Michael Eisenstadt argued that Khamenei may have issued the fatwa to reduce the international pressure on Iran and that \"no religious principle would prevent Khamenei from modifying or supplanting his initial fatwa if circumstances were to change\" and \"expediency/interest of the regime (maslahat) so required,\" Others have raised the possibility that the fatwa may fall under the Shia practice of taqiyya: dissembling to avoid the threat of religious persecution. While Gholam-Hossein Elham, an Iranian politician, argues that \"taqiya\" does not apply here because the fatwa by Khamenei is a primary religious order, not a secondary one. According to him, Khamenei's fatwa bans massacre of innocent people; that is not going to change in any situation since it is a primary order. Also, he said that Islamic jurists have banned deception in jihad and war, which are Islamic leader he respects.\n\nGareth Porter argues that \"the analysis of Khamenei's fatwa has been flawed\", not only because the role of the \"guardian jurist\" in the Iranian political-legal system is not totally understood but also because the history of the fatwa is ignored. He also believes that to understand Iranian policy toward nuclear weapons, one should refer to the \"historical episode during its eight-year war with Iraq\", which explains why Iran never used chemical weapons against Iraq seeking revenge for Iraqis attacks killing 20,000 Iranians and severely injured 100,000 more. Porter argues that fact to suggest strongly that Iran has sincerely made a \"deep-rooted\" ban on developing chemical and nuclear weapons. In an interview with Porter, Mohsen Rafighdoost, the eight-year wartime minister of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, disclosed how Khomeini had opposed his proposal for beginning working on both nuclear and chemical weapons by a fatwa. The details on when and how it was issues had never been made public.\n\n"}
{"id": "6522312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6522312", "title": "Aviation Challenge", "text": "Aviation Challenge\n\nAviation Challenge is a military-style camp for youth between the ages of 9 to 18 years old located in Huntsville, Alabama and is part of the U.S. Space & Rocket Center. Aviation Challenge is all about aircraft, survival, and being a pilot. Each Cadet is given a military uniform and must work together with the teams throughout the week to accomplish mission objectives. They also learn all about airplanes; how to fly them in the simulators, how to build shelter and fire, and many other team building activities. \nAviation Challenge also offer a camp adapted for visually impaired and blind students as part of Sci-Vis (space camp for interested visually impaired students). This camp is offered once a year.\n\nAviation Challenge offers several programs that are based on the cadet’s age group. With each program, the difficulty increases but the cadets are not required to complete the previous age group program. Each program lasts five days for the Mach I program (9-11 years old), Mach II program (12-14 years old), and the Mach III program (15-18 years old), and a single two week Mach III Elite program offered exclusively to the alumni of the regular Mach III program.\n\nThe Mach I program is meant for cadets from 9-11 years old which is the youngest age group at Aviation Challenge. “Aviation Challenge® MACH I is a fast-paced, military-style program that uses simulated, realistic combat scenarios. Trainees are immersed in the fascinating realms of flight while learning about the basics of the military lifestyle.” This is the easiest program for the cadets. They learn about the basics of flight, how to fly, and survival on both land and sea. This entire week of activities and training lead to the most coveted event at Aviation Challenge: The Top Gun tournament. This tournament is bracket style and each round is pilot vs pilot and the winner of the Mach I program, at the end of the cadet’s week, will win the highest award at graduation.\n\nThe Mach II is designed for teenagers between the ages of 12-14 years old. “Aviation Challenge® MACH II is a military-style program for middle school students that uses simulated, realistic combat scenarios while teaching pride, professionalism and leadership.” This age group is even more immersed in the military experience. These cadets have more challenging missions in the simulators and competition raises as well. The cadets also learn about survival training, water training, and patrolling. All of these culminate into a SEAL OPS mission at night and a Search and Rescue mission during the day. Same as the Mach I program, the Mach II program has their own Top Gun tournament where they see who is the best out of the best in the Mach II program. The cadet who comes out as the ultimate winner will receive the Top Gun medal. \n\nThe Mach III program is the highest level in the Aviation Challenge camp and is meant for teenagers on their way to adulthood from 15-18 years old. “High school trainees are challenged in the fields of aerodynamics, aeronautics, and jet propulsion when they experience our most advanced aviation program, MACH III.” This is the most informative and learning experience offered at Aviation Challenge. The Mach III cadets leave at the end of graduation with a deep understanding of all things aviation. This highest program even counts towards a college credit once the cadets finish their week. The Mach III cadets also learn about water and land survival and will experience what it’s like to be in a simulated helicopter crash with a “helo-dunker” at the Aviation Challenge lake. Also at the lake is a zip line which is used to simulate parachute landings. Their week ends with an extensive SEAL OPS mission and a very challenging escape and evasion mission at night.\n\nThe Mach III Elite program is run only once per summer and is basically a boot camp where cadets must follow a strict military code of conduct and etiquette which tests their mental and physical abilities. The Elite’s challenges help them as young adults because it brings out the best in the cadets and helps them build upon their weaknesses as well which serves them well in life. The Mach III Elite program began in 2005, and is a 12-day intense program which is only available to alumni of the Mach III program. This is for die hard cadets only and will include Airsoft, MOUT, and a Crucible. This Mach III Elite program is not for the light hearted and will test each cadet’s ability to overcome physical and mental strain. At the end of the week, they are distinguished and will have learned invaluable information to help them become better young adults.\n\nThe Mach I program has the least challenging missions, activities, and simulators. Their simulators have the least amount of controls for simplicity and so they have the best opportunity to learn the basics of flight through experience. All of the Mach I’s activities are to build an understanding of how to survive in the wild and a basic understanding of flight and aviation. \n\nThe Mach II program builds upon the Mach I teachings and has bigger more complex simulators and more difficult missions. This is more of a military style program than Mach I. The Mach II’s also have more challenging FTX/ SEAL OPS and Search and Rescue mission.\n\nThe Mach III program has the most challenging activities where working as a team is needed the most. There are more complex simulators that include pull down glass canopies when flying, as well as the traditional pilot and RIO/WSO two-person cockpit seating. Mach III also features scored missions with Theater Ops military style briefings where the cadets are meticulously inspected before being allowed to enter briefing rooms. They also have a much more intense SEAL OPS. There are many other activities that are done in the camp such as rafting, g force simulators, wilderness survival skills, and flight equipment lectures.\n\nThe Aviation Challenge Campus houses a wide variety of aircraft such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40854752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40854752", "title": "Barefoot Catalogue", "text": "Barefoot Catalogue\n\nThe Barefoot catalogue is a series of catalogues of, mainly, revenue stamps published by stamp dealer John Barefoot of York, England, through his firm J. Barefoot Ltd.\n\nThe catalogues are of an intermediate level of detail and while they are not usually the only revenue catalogue ever published for a given country, with highly specialised or historic local works sometimes existing, the low price, ready availability and up to date nature of the Barefoot range has meant that they have become the de facto standard revenue catalogue for many countries.\n\nIn 2010, John Barefoot won the Research Medal of the Revenue Society for \"...his many years of revenue research and ground-breaking publication of an enormous range of revenue catalogues which continue to act as the standard references for so many countries.\"\n\nThis is a list of catalogues published by John Barefoot (all in print, unless indicated otherwise), with the latest edition in brackets:\n\n"}
{"id": "36865578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36865578", "title": "Bibliography of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac", "text": "Bibliography of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac\n\nThis is an unannotated bibliography of writings about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as well as some material that covers other government sponsored enterprises such as the Federal Home Loan Bank System. While it is comprehensive, it is not exhaustive, with a focus on work published through 2011 by government agencies, economists, legal and policy scholars, private sector analysts and think tanks. It does not include Congressional testimony and shorter works. This bibliography has been posted on Wikipedia so that others can make additions to it. The original document may be found on SSRN. Please continue to follow guidelines consistent with the Chicago Manual of Style when editing this bibliography.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652", "title": "Blitzkrieg", "text": "Blitzkrieg\n\nBlitzkrieg (German, \"lightning war\") is a method of warfare whereby an attacking force, spearheaded by a dense concentration of armoured and motorised or mechanised infantry formations with close air support, breaks through the opponent's line of defence by short, fast, powerful attacks and then dislocates the defenders, using speed and surprise to encircle them with the help of air superiority. Through the employment of combined arms in manoeuvre warfare, blitzkrieg attempts to unbalance the enemy by making it difficult for it to respond to the continuously changing front, then defeat it in a decisive (battle of annihilation).\n\nDuring the interwar period, aircraft and tank technologies matured and were combined with systematic application of the traditional German tactic of (maneuver warfare), deep penetrations and the bypassing of enemy strong points to encircle and destroy enemy forces in a (cauldron battle). During the Invasion of Poland, Western journalists adopted the term \"blitzkrieg\" to describe this form of armoured warfare. The term had appeared in 1935, in a German military periodical (German Defence), in connection to quick or lightning warfare. German manoeuvre operations were successful in the campaigns of 1939–1941 and by 1940 the term \"blitzkrieg\" was extensively used in Western media. Blitzkrieg operations capitalized on surprise penetrations (e.g., the penetration of the Ardennes forest region), general enemy unreadiness and their inability to match the pace of the German attack. During the Battle of France, the French made attempts to re-form defensive lines along rivers but were frustrated when German forces arrived first and pressed on.\n\nDespite being common in German and English-language journalism during World War II, the word was never used by the Wehrmacht as an official military term, except for propaganda. According to David Reynolds, \"Hitler himself called the term Blitzkrieg 'A completely idiotic word' (ein ganz blödsinniges Wort)\". Some senior officers, including Kurt Student, Franz Halder and Johann Adolf von Kielmansegg, even disputed the idea that it was a military concept. Kielmansegg asserted that what many regarded as blitzkrieg was nothing more than \"ad hoc solutions that simply popped out of the prevailing situation\". Student described it as ideas that \"naturally emerged from the existing circumstances\" as a response to operational challenges. The Wehrmacht never officially adopted it as a concept or doctrine.\n\nIn 2005, the historian Karl-Heinz Frieser summarized blitzkrieg as the result of German commanders using the latest technology in the most beneficial way according to traditional military principles and employing \"the right units in the right place at the right time\". Modern historians now understand blitzkrieg as the combination of the traditional German military principles, methods and doctrines of the 19th century with the military technology of the interwar period. Modern historians use the term casually as a generic description for the style of manoeuvre warfare practised by Germany during the early part of World War II, rather than as an explanation. According to Frieser, in the context of the thinking of Heinz Guderian on mobile combined arms formations, blitzkrieg can be used as a synonym for modern manoeuvre warfare on the operational level.\n\nThe traditional meaning of blitzkrieg is that of German tactical and operational methodology in the first half of the Second World War, that is often hailed as a new method of warfare. The word, meaning \"lightning war\" or \"lightning attack\" in its strategic sense describes a series of quick and decisive short battles to deliver a knockout blow to an enemy state before it could fully mobilize. Tactically, blitzkrieg is a coordinated military effort by tanks, motorized infantry, artillery and aircraft, to create an overwhelming local superiority in combat power, to defeat the opponent and break through its defences. \"Blitzkrieg\" as used by Germany had considerable psychological, or \"terror\" elements, such as the \"Jericho Trompete\", a noise-making siren on the Junkers Ju 87 dive-bomber, to affect the morale of enemy forces. The devices were largely removed when the enemy became used to the noise after the Battle of France in 1940 and instead bombs sometimes had whistles attached. It is also common for historians and writers to include psychological warfare by using Fifth columnists to spread rumours and lies among the civilian population in the theatre of operations.\n\nThe origin of the term \"blitzkrieg\" is obscure. It was never used in the title of a military doctrine or handbook of the German army or air force, and no \"coherent doctrine\" or \"unifying concept of blitzkrieg\" existed. The term seems rarely to have been used in the German military press before 1939 and recent research at the German \"Militärgeschichtliches Forschungsamt\" at Potsdam found it in only two military articles from the 1930s. Both used the term to mean a swift strategic knock-out, rather than a radical new military doctrine or approach to war. The first article (1935) deals primarily with supplies of food and materiel in wartime. The term \"blitzkrieg\" is used with reference to German efforts to win a quick victory in the First World War but is not associated with the use of armoured, mechanised or air forces. It argued that Germany must develop self-sufficiency in food, because it might again prove impossible to deal a swift knock-out to its enemies, leading to a long war. In the second article (1938), launching a swift strategic knock-out is described as an attractive idea for Germany but difficult to achieve on land under modern conditions (especially against systems of fortification like the Maginot Line), unless an exceptionally high degree of surprise could be achieved. The author vaguely suggests that a massive strategic air attack might hold out better prospects but the topic is not explored in detail. A third relatively early use of the term in German occurs in \"Die Deutsche Kriegsstärke\" (German War Strength) by Fritz Sternberg, a Jewish, Marxist, political economist and refugee from the Third Reich, published in 1938 in Paris and in London as \"Germany and a Lightning War\". Sternberg wrote that Germany was not prepared economically for a long war but might win a quick war (\"Blitzkrieg\"). He did not go into detail about tactics or suggest that the German armed forces had evolved a radically new operational method. His book offers scant clues as to how German lightning victories might be won.\n\nIn English and other languages, the term had been used since the 1920s. The British press used it to describe the German successes in Poland in September 1939, called by Harris \"a piece of journalistic sensationalism – a buzz-word with which to label the spectacular early successes of the Germans in the Second World War\". It was later applied to the bombing of Britain, particularly London, hence \"The Blitz\". The German popular press followed suit nine months later, after the fall of France in 1940; hence although the word had been used in German, it was first popularized by British journalism. Heinz Guderian referred to it as a word coined by the Allies: \"as a result of the successes of our rapid campaigns our enemies ... coined the word \"Blitzkrieg\"\". After the German failure in the Soviet Union in 1941, use of the term began to be frowned upon in the Third Reich, and Hitler then denied ever using the term, saying in a speech in November 1941, \"I have never used the word \"Blitzkrieg\", because it is a very silly word\". In early January 1942, Hitler dismissed it as \"Italian phraseology\".\n\nIn 1914, German strategic thinking derived from the writings of Carl von Clausewitz (June 1, 1780 – November 16, 1831), Helmuth von Moltke the Elder (26 October 1800 – 24 April 1891) and Alfred von Schlieffen (28 February 1833 – 4 January 1913), who advocated manoeuvre, mass and envelopment to create the conditions for a decisive battle (). During the war, generals such as Oskar von Hutier developed tactics to restore manoeuvre on the battlefield. Specialist light infantry (\"Sturmtruppen\", \"storm troops\") were to exploit soft spots, to make gaps for larger infantry units to advance with heavier weapons and exploit the success, leaving isolated strong points to troops following up. Hutier tactics were combined with short hurricane artillery bombardments using massed artillery, devised by Colonel Georg Bruchmüller. Attacks relied on speed and surprise rather than on weight of numbers. Hutier-Bruchmüller tactics met with great success in Operation Michael, the spring offensive of 1918 and restored temporarily the war of movement, once the Allied trench system had been overrun. The German armies pushed on towards Amiens and then Paris, coming within before supply difficulties and Allied reinforcements halted the advance. Historian James Corum criticised the German leadership for failing to understand the technical advances of the First World War, having given tank production the lowest priority and having conducted no studies of the machine gun prior to that war. \n\nGerman operational theories were revised after the First World War. The Treaty of Versailles limited the Reichswehr to a maximum of 100,000 men, making impossible the deployment of mass armies. The German General Staff was abolished by the treaty but continued covertly as the \"Truppenamt\" (Troop Office), disguised as an administrative body. Committees of veteran staff officers were formed within the \"Truppenamt\" to evaluate 57 issues of the war. By the time of the Second World War, their reports had led to doctrinal and training publications, including H. Dv. 487, \"Führung und Gefecht der verbundenen Waffen\" (Command and Battle of the Combined Arms), known as das Fug (1921–23) and \"Truppenführung\" (1933–34), containing standard procedures for combined-arms warfare. The \"Reichswehr\" was influenced by its analysis of pre-war German military thought, in particular infiltration tactics, which at the end of the war had seen some breakthroughs on the Western Front and the manoeuvre warfare which dominated the Eastern Front.\n\nOn the Eastern Front, the war did not bog down into trench warfare; German and Russian armies fought a war of manoeuvre over thousands of miles, which gave the German leadership unique experience not available to the trench-bound western Allies. Studies of operations in the east led to the conclusion that small and coordinated forces possessed more combat power than large, uncoordinated forces. After the war, the \"Reichswehr\" modified Hutier tactics. The commander in chief, Hans von Seeckt, argued that there had been an excessive focus on encirclement and emphasized speed instead. Seeckt inspired a revision of \"Bewegungskrieg\" (maneuver warfare) thinking and its associated \"Auftragstaktik\", in which the commander expressed his goals to subordinates and gave them discretion in how to achieve them; the governing principle was \"the higher the authority, the more general the orders were,\" so it was the responsibility of the lower echelons to fill in the details. Implementation of higher orders remained within limits determined by the training doctrine of an elite officer-corps. Delegation of authority to local commanders increased the tempo of operations, which had great influence on the success of German armies in the early war period. Seeckt, who believed in the Prussian tradition of mobility, developed the German army into a mobile force, advocating technical advances that would lead to a qualitative improvement of its forces and better coordination between motorized infantry, tanks, and planes.\n\nThe British army took lessons from the successful infantry and artillery offensives on the Western Front in late 1918. To obtain the best co-operation between all arms, emphasis was placed on detailed planning, rigid control and adherence to orders. Mechanization of the army was considered a means to avoid mass casualties and indecisive nature of offensives, as part of a combined-arms theory of war. The four editions of \"Field Service Regulations\" published after 1918 held that only combined-arms operations could create enough fire power to enable mobility on a battlefield. This theory of war also emphasized consolidation, recommending caution against overconfidence and ruthless exploitation.\n\nIn the Sinai and Palestine Campaign, operations involved some aspects of what would later be called \"blitzkrieg\". Key elements in the \"blitzkrieg warfare\" at the decisive Battle of Megiddo included concentration, surprise and speed; success depended on attacking only in terrain favoring the movement of large formations around the battlefield and tactical improvements in the British artillery and infantry attack. General Edmund Allenby used infantry to attack the strong Ottoman front line in co-operation with supporting artillery, augmented by the guns of two destroyers. Through constant pressure by infantry and cavalry, two Ottoman armies in the Judean Hills were kept off-balance and virtually encircled during the Battles of Sharon and Nablus (Battle of Megiddo).\n\nThe British methods induced \"strategic paralysis\" among the Ottomans and led to their rapid and complete collapse. In an advance of , captures were estimated to be \"at least prisoners and 260 guns.\" Liddell Hart considered that important aspects of the operation were the extent to which Ottoman commanders were denied intelligence on the British preparations for the attack through British air superiority and air attacks on their headquarters and telephone exchanges, which paralyzed attempts to react to the rapidly deteriorating situation.\n\nNorman Stone detects early \"Blitzkrieg\" operations in offensives by the French generals Charles Mangin and Marie-Eugène Debeney in 1918. However, French doctrine in the interwar years became defence-oriented. Colonel Charles de Gaulle advocated concentration of armour and aeroplanes. His opinions appeared in his book \"Vers l'Armée de Métier\" (Towards the Professional Army, 1933). Like von Seeckt, de Gaulle concluded that France could no longer maintain the huge armies of conscripts and reservists which had fought World War I, and he sought to use tanks, mechanised forces and aircraft to allow a smaller number of highly-trained soldiers to have greater impact in battle. His views little endeared him to the French high command, but are claimed by some to have influenced Heinz Guderian.\n\nIn 1916, General Alexei Brusilov had used surprise and infiltration tactics during the Brusilov Offensive. Later, Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevsky, Georgii Isserson and other members of the Red Army developed a concept of deep battle from the experience of the Polish–Soviet War. These concepts would guide Red Army doctrine throughout World War II. Realising the limitations of infantry and cavalry, Tukhachevsky was an advocate of mechanised formations and the large-scale industrialisation required. Robert Watt (2008) wrote that blitzkrieg holds little in common with Soviet deep battle. In 2002, H. P. Willmott had noted that deep battle contained two important differences: it was a doctrine of total war, not limited operations, and decisive battle was rejected in favour of several large, simultaneous offensives.\n\nThe \"Reichswehr\" and the Red Army began a secret collaboration in the Soviet Union to evade the Treaty of Versailles occupational agent, the Inter-Allied Commission. In 1926, War games and tests were begun at Kazan and Lipetsk. The centres were used to field test aircraft and armoured vehicles up to the battalion level and housed aerial and armoured warfare schools, through which officers were rotated.\n\nAfter becoming Chancellor of Germany (head of government) in 1933, Adolf Hitler ignored the Versailles Treaty provisions. Within the Wehrmacht (established in 1935) the command for motorised armored forces was named the \"Panzerwaffe\" in 1936. The Luftwaffe (the German air force) was officially established in February 1935, and development began on ground-attack aircraft and doctrines. Hitler strongly supported this new strategy. He read Guderian's 1937 book \"Achtung – Panzer!\" and upon observing armoured field exercises at Kummersdorf he remarked, \"That is what I want – and that is what I will have.\"\n\nGuderian summarised combined-arms tactics as the way to get the mobile and motorised armoured divisions to work together and support each other to achieve decisive success. In his 1950 book, \"Panzer Leader\", he wrote:\n\nGuderian believed that developments in technology were required to support the theory; especially, equipping armoured divisions—tanks\nforemost–with wireless communications. Guderian insisted in 1933 to the high command that every tank in the German armoured force must be equipped with a radio. At the start of World War II, only the German army was thus prepared with all tanks \"radio-equipped\". This proved critical in early tank battles where German tank commanders exploited the organizational advantage over the Allies that radio communication gave them. Later all Allied armies would copy this innovation. During the Polish campaign, the performance of armoured troops, under the influence of Guderian's ideas, won over a number of skeptics who had initially expressed doubt about armoured warfare, such as von Rundstedt and Rommel.\n\nAccording to David A.Grossman, by the 12th Battle of Isonzo (October-November 1917), while conducting a light-infantry operation, Rommel had perfected his maneuver-warfare principles, which were the very same ones that were applied during the Blitzkrieg against France in 1940 (and repeated in the Coalition ground offensive against Iraq in the 1991 Gulf War). During the Battle of France and against his staff advisor's advice, Hitler ordered that everything should be completed in a few weeks; fortunately for the Führer, Rommel and Guderian disobeyed the General Staff's orders (particularly General von Kleist) and forged ahead making quicker progress than anyone expected, and on the way, \"inventing the idea of Blitzkrieg.\" It was Rommel who created the new archetype of Blitzkrieg, leading his division far ahead of flanking divisions. MacGregor and Williamson remark that Rommel's version of Blitzkrieg displayed a significantly better understanding of combined-arms warfare than that of Guderian. General Hoth submitted an official report in July 1940 which declared that Rommel had \"explored new paths in the command of Panzer divisions\".\n\n\"Schwerpunktprinzip\" was a heuristic device (conceptual tool or thinking formula) used in the German army since the nineteenth century, to make decisions from tactics to strategy about priority. \"Schwerpunkt\" has been translated as \"centre of gravity\", \"crucial\", \"focal point\" and \"point of main effort\". None of these forms is sufficient to describe the universal importance of the term and the concept of \"Schwerpunktprinzip\". Every unit in the army, from the company to the supreme command, decided on a \"Schwerpunkt\" through \"schwerpunktbildung\", as did the support services, which meant that commanders always knew what was most important and why. The German army was trained to support the \"Schwerpunkt\", even when risks had to be taken elsewhere to support the point of main effort. Through \"Schwerpunktbildung\", the German army could achieve superiority at the \"Schwerpunkt\", whether attacking or defending, to turn local success at the \"Schwerpunkt\" into the progressive disorganisation of the opposing force, creating more opportunities to exploit this advantage, even if numerically and strategically inferior in general. In the 1930s, Guderian summarised this as \"Klotzen, nicht kleckern!\" (\"Kick, don't spatter them!\").\n\nHaving achieved a breakthrough of the enemy's line, units comprising the \"Schwerpunkt\" were not supposed to become decisively engaged with enemy front line units to the right and left of the breakthrough area. Units pouring through the hole were to drive upon set objectives behind the enemy front line. In World War II, German Panzer forces used motorised mobility, to paralyse the opponent's ability to react. Fast-moving mobile forces seized the initiative, exploited weaknesses and acted before opposing forces could respond. Central to this was the decision cycle (tempo). Decision-making required time to gather information, make a decision, give orders to subordinates to implement the decision. Through superior mobility and faster decision-making cycles, mobile forces could act quicker than the forces opposing them. Directive control was a fast and flexible method of command. Rather than receiving an explicit order, a commander would be told of his superior's intent and the role which his unit was to fill in this concept. The method of execution was then a matter for the discretion of the subordinate commander. Staff burden was reduced at the top and spread among tiers of command with knowledge about their situation. Delegation and the encouragement of initiative aided implementation, important decisions could be taken quickly and communicated verbally or with brief written orders. Germans soldiers also used Pervitin, a form of Amphetamine, which was given to drivers, to keep them awake.\n\nThe last part of an offensive operation was the destruction of un-subdued pockets of resistance, which had been enveloped earlier and by-passed by the fast-moving armoured and motorised spearheads. The \"Kesselschlacht\" 'cauldron battle' was a concentric attack on such pockets. It was here that most losses were inflicted upon the enemy, primarily through the mass capture of prisoners and weapons. During Operation Barbarossa, huge encirclements in 1941 produced nearly 3.5 million Soviet prisoners, along with masses of equipment.\n\nClose air support was provided in the form of the dive bomber and medium bomber. They would support the focal point of attack from the air. German successes are closely related to the extent to which the German \"Luftwaffe\" was able to control the air war in early campaigns in Western and Central Europe, and the Soviet Union. However, the \"Luftwaffe\" was a broadly based force with no constricting central doctrine, other than its resources should be used generally to support national strategy. It was flexible and it was able to carry out both operational-tactical, and strategic bombing. Flexibility was the \"Luftwaffe\"s strength in 1939–1941. Paradoxically, from that period onward it became its weakness. While Allied Air Forces were tied to the support of the Army, the \"Luftwaffe\" deployed its resources in a more general, operational way. It switched from air superiority missions, to medium-range interdiction, to strategic strikes, to close support duties depending on the need of the ground forces. In fact, far from it being a specialist panzer spearhead arm, less than 15 percent of the Luftwaffe was intended for close support of the army in 1939.\n\nThe concepts associated with the term \"blitzkrieg\"—deep penetrations by armour, large encirclements, and combined arms attacks—were largely dependent upon terrain and weather conditions. Where the ability for rapid movement across \"tank country\" was not possible, armoured penetrations often were avoided or resulted in failure. Terrain would ideally be flat, firm, unobstructed by natural barriers or fortifications, and interspersed with roads and railways. If it were instead hilly, wooded, marshy, or urban, armour would be vulnerable to infantry in close-quarters combat and unable to break out at full speed. Additionally, units could be halted by mud (thawing along the Eastern Front regularly slowed both sides) or extreme snow. Operation Barbarossa helped confirm that armour effectiveness and the requisite aerial support were dependent on weather and terrain. It should however be noted that the disadvantages of terrain could be nullified if surprise was achieved over the enemy by an attack through areas considered natural obstacles, as occurred during the Battle of France when the German blitzkrieg-style attack went through the Ardennes. Since the French thought the Ardennes unsuitable for massive troop movement, particularly for tanks, they were left with only light defences which were quickly overrun by the \"Wehrmacht\". The Germans quickly advanced through the forest, knocking down the trees the French thought would impede this tactic.\n\nThe influence of air forces over forces on the ground changed significantly over the course of the Second World War. Early German successes were conducted when Allied aircraft could not make a significant impact on the battlefield. In May 1940, there was near parity in numbers of aircraft between the \"Luftwaffe\" and the Allies, but the \"Luftwaffe\" had been developed to support Germany's ground forces, had liaison officers with the mobile formations, and operated a higher number of sorties per aircraft. In addition, German air parity or superiority allowed the unencumbered movement of ground forces, their unhindered assembly into concentrated attack formations, aerial reconnaissance, aerial resupply of fast moving formations and close air support at the point of attack. The Allied air forces had no close air support aircraft, training or doctrine. The Allies flew 434 French and 160 British sorties a day but methods of attacking ground targets had yet to be developed; therefore Allied aircraft caused negligible damage. Against these 600 sorties the \"Luftwaffe\" on average flew 1,500 sorties a day. On May 13, \"Fliegerkorps\" VIII flew 1,000 sorties in support of the crossing of the Meuse. The following day the Allies made repeated attempts to destroy the German pontoon bridges, but German fighter aircraft, ground fire and \"Luftwaffe\" flak batteries with the panzer forces destroyed 56 percent of the attacking Allied aircraft while the bridges remained intact.\n\nAllied air superiority became a significant hindrance to German operations during the later years of the war. By June 1944 the Western Allies had complete control of the air over the battlefield and their fighter-bomber aircraft were very effective at attacking ground forces. On D-Day the Allies flew 14,500 sorties over the battlefield area alone, not including sorties flown over north-western Europe. Against this on 6 June the \"Luftwaffe\" flew some 300 sorties. Though German fighter presence over Normandy increased over the next days and weeks, it never approached the numbers the Allies commanded. Fighter-bomber attacks on German formations made movement during daylight almost impossible. Subsequently, shortages soon developed in food, fuel and ammunition, severely hampering the German defenders. German vehicle crews and even flak units experienced great difficulty moving during daylight. Indeed, the final German offensive operation in the west, Operation Wacht am Rhein, was planned to take place during poor weather to minimize interference by Allied aircraft. Under these conditions it was difficult for German commanders to employ the \"armoured idea\", if at all.\n\nBlitzkrieg is vulnerable to an enemy that is robust enough to weather the shock of the attack and that does not panic at the idea of enemy formations in its rear area. This is especially true if the attacking formation lacks the reserve to keep funnelling forces into the spearhead, or lacks the mobility to provide infantry, artillery and supplies into the attack. If the defender can hold the shoulders of the breach they will have the opportunity to counter-attack into the flank of the attacker, potentially cutting off the van as happened to Kampfgruppe Peiper in the Ardennes.\n\nDuring the Battle of France in 1940, the 4th Armoured Division (Major-General Charles de Gaulle) and elements of the 1st Army Tank Brigade (British Expeditionary Force) made probing attacks on the German flank, pushing into the rear of the advancing armoured columns at times. This may have been a reason for Hitler to call a halt to the German advance. Those attacks combined with Maxime Weygand's Hedgehog tactic would become the major basis for responding to blitzkrieg attacks in the future: deployment in depth, permitting enemy or \"shoulders\" of a penetration was essential to channelling the enemy attack, and artillery, properly employed at the shoulders, could take a heavy toll of attackers. While Allied forces in 1940 lacked the experience to successfully develop these strategies, resulting in France's capitulation with heavy losses, they characterised later Allied operations. At the Battle of Kursk the Red Army employed a combination of defence in great depth, extensive minefields, and tenacious defence of breakthrough shoulders. In this way they depleted German combat power even as German forces advanced. The reverse can be seen in the Russian summer offensive of 1944, Operation Bagration, which resulted in the destruction of Army Group Center. German attempts to weather the storm and fight out of encirclements failed due to the Russian ability to continue to feed armoured units into the attack, maintaining the mobility and strength of the offensive, arriving in force deep in the rear areas, faster than the Germans could regroup.\n\nAlthough effective in quick campaigns against Poland and France, mobile operations could not be sustained by Germany in later years. Strategies based on manoeuvre have the inherent danger of the attacking force overextending its supply lines, and can be defeated by a determined foe who is willing and able to sacrifice territory for time in which to regroup and rearm, as the Soviets did on the Eastern Front (as opposed to, for example, the Dutch who had no territory to sacrifice). Tank and vehicle production was a constant problem for Germany; indeed, late in the war many panzer \"divisions\" had no more than a few dozen tanks. As the end of the war approached, Germany also experienced critical shortages in fuel and ammunition stocks as a result of Anglo-American strategic bombing and blockade. Although production of \"Luftwaffe\" fighter aircraft continued, they would be unable to fly for lack of fuel. What fuel there was went to panzer divisions, and even then they were not able to operate normally. Of those Tiger tanks lost against the United States Army, nearly half of them were abandoned for lack of fuel.\n\nGerman volunteers first used armour in live field conditions during the Spanish Civil War of 1936. Armour commitment consisted of Panzer Battalion 88, a force built around three companies of Panzer I tanks that functioned as a training cadre for Nationalists. The Luftwaffe deployed squadrons of fighters, dive bombers and transport aircraft as the \"Condor Legion\". Guderian said that the tank deployment was \"on too small a scale to allow accurate assessments to be made.\" The true test of his \"armoured idea\" would have to wait for the Second World War. However, the \"Luftwaffe\" also provided volunteers to Spain to test both tactics and aircraft in combat, including the first combat use of the \"Stuka\".\n\nDuring the war, the \"Condor Legion\" undertook the bombing of Guernica which had a tremendous psychological effect on the populations of Europe. The results were exaggerated, and the Western Allies concluded that the \"city-busting\" techniques were now a part of the German way in war. The targets of the German aircraft were actually the rail lines and bridges. But lacking the ability to hit them with accuracy (only three or four Ju 87s saw action in Spain), a method of carpet bombing was chosen resulting in heavy civilian casualties.\n\nDespite the term \"blitzkrieg\" being coined by journalists during the Invasion of Poland of 1939, historians Matthew Cooper and J. P. Harris have written that German operations during it were consistent with traditional methods. The Wehrmacht strategy was more in line with \"Vernichtungsgedanken\" a focus on envelopment to create pockets in broad-front annihilation. Panzer forces were dispersed among the three German concentrations with little emphasis on independent use, being used to create or destroy close pockets of Polish forces and seize operational-depth terrain in support of the largely un-motorized infantry which followed.\n\nWhile early German tanks, Stuka dive-bombers and concentrated forces were used in the Polish campaign, the majority of the battle was conventional infantry and artillery warfare and most Luftwaffe action was independent of the ground campaign. Matthew Cooper wrote that\n\nJohn Ellis wrote that \"...there is considerable justice in Matthew Cooper's assertion that the panzer divisions were not given the kind of \"strategic\" mission that was to characterize authentic armoured blitzkrieg, and were almost always closely subordinated to the various mass infantry armies.\" Steven Zaloga wrote, \"Whilst Western accounts of the September campaign have stressed the shock value of the panzer and Stuka attacks, they have tended to underestimate the punishing effect of German artillery on Polish units. Mobile and available in significant quantity, artillery shattered as many units as any other branch of the Wehrmacht.\"\n\nThe German invasion of France, with subsidiary attacks on Belgium and the Netherlands, consisted of two phases, Operation Yellow (\"Fall Gelb\") and Operation Red (\"Fall Rot\"). Yellow opened with a feint conducted against the Netherlands and Belgium by two armoured corps and paratroopers. Most of the German armoured forces were placed in Panzer Group von Kleist, which attacked through the Ardennes, a lightly defended sector that the French planned to reinforce if need be, before the Germans could bring up heavy and siege artillery. There was no time for such a reinforcement to be sent, for the Germans did not wait for siege artillery but reached the Meuse and achieved a breakthrough at the Battle of Sedan in three days.\n\nThe group raced to the English Channel, reaching the coast at Abbeville and cut off the BEF, the Belgian Army and some of the best-equipped divisions of the French Army in northern France. Armoured and motorised units under Guderian, Rommel and others, advanced far beyond the marching and horse-drawn infantry divisions and far in excess of that with which Hitler and the German high command expected or wished. When the Allies counter-attacked at Arras using the heavily armoured British Matilda I and Matilda II tanks, a brief panic was created in the German High Command. The armoured and motorised forces were halted by Hitler outside the port of Dunkirk, which was being used to evacuate the Allied forces. Hermann Göring promised that the Luftwaffe would complete the destruction of the encircled armies but aerial operations failed to prevent the evacuation of the majority of the Allied troops. In Operation Dynamo some French and British troops escaped.\n\nCase Yellow surprised everyone, overcoming the Allies' 4,000 armoured vehicles, many of which were better than German equivalents in armour and gun-power. The French and British frequently used their tanks in the dispersed role of infantry support rather than concentrating force at the point of attack, to create overwhelming firepower.\nThe French armies were much reduced in strength and the confidence of their commanders shaken. With much of their own armour and heavy equipment lost in Northern France, they lacked the means to fight a mobile war. The Germans followed their initial success with Operation Red, a triple-pronged offensive. The XV Panzer Corps attacked towards Brest, XIV Panzer Corps attacked east of Paris, towards Lyon and the XIX Panzer Corps encircled the Maginot Line. The French were hard pressed to organise any sort of counter-attack and were continually ordered to form new defensive lines and found that German forces had already by-passed them and moved on. An armoured counter-attack organised by Colonel de Gaulle could not be sustained and he had to retreat.\n\nPrior to the German offensive in May, Winston Churchill had said \"Thank God for the French Army\". That same French army collapsed after barely two months of fighting. This was in shocking contrast to the four years of trench warfare they had engaged in during the First World War. The French president of the Ministerial Council, Reynaud, attributed the collapse in a speech on 21 May 1940:\n\nThe Germans had not used paratroop attacks in France and only made one big drop in the Netherlands, to capture three bridges; some small glider-landings were conducted in Belgium to tank bottle-necks on routes of advance before the arrival of the main force (the most renowned being the landing on Fort Eben-Emael in Belgium).\n\nUse of armoured forces was crucial for both sides on the Eastern Front. Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, involved a number of breakthroughs and encirclements by motorised forces. Its goal according to Führer Directive 21 (18 December 1940) was \"to destroy the Russian forces deployed in the West and to prevent their escape into the wide-open spaces of Russia.\" The Red Army was to be destroyed west of the Dvina and Dnieper rivers, which were about east of the Soviet border, to be followed by a mopping-up operation. The surprise attack resulted in the near annihilation of the Voyenno-Vozdushnye Sily (VVS, Soviet Air Force) by simultaneous attacks on airfields, allowing the Luftwaffe to achieve total air supremacy over all the battlefields within the first week. On the ground, four German panzer groups outflanked and encircled disorganised Red Army units, while the marching infantry completed the encirclements and defeated the trapped forces. In late July, after 2nd Panzer Group (commanded by Guderian) captured the watersheds of the Dvina and Dnieper rivers near Smolensk, the panzers had to defend the encirclement, because the marching infantry divisions were still hundreds of kilometres to the west.\n\nThe Germans conquered large areas of the Soviet Union but their failure to destroy the Red Army before the winter of 1941 was a strategic failure that made German tactical superiority and territorial gains irrelevant. The Red Army had survived enormous losses and regrouped with new formations far to the rear of the front line. During the Battle of Moscow, the Red Army defeated the German Army Group Center and for the first time in the war seized the strategic initiative.\n\nIn the summer of 1942, Germany launched another offensive in the southern USSR against Stalingrad and the Caucasus, the Soviets again lost tremendous amounts of territory, only to counter-attack once more during winter. German gains were ultimately limited by Hitler diverting forces from the attack on Stalingrad and driving towards the Caucasus oilfields simultaneously. The \"Wehrmacht\" became overstretched, although winning operationally, it could not inflict a decisive defeat as the durability of the Soviet Union's manpower, resources, industrial base and aid from the Western Allies began to take effect.\n\nIn July 1943 the \"Wehrmacht\" conducted Operation (Citadel) against a salient at Kursk that was heavily defended by Soviet troops. Soviet defensive tactics were by now hugely improved, particularly in the use of artillery and air support. By April 1943, the Stavka had learned of German intentions through intelligence supplied by front line reconnaissance and Ultra intercepts. In the following months, the Red Army constructed deep defensive belts along the paths of the planned German attack. The Soviets made a concerted effort to disguise their knowledge of German plans and the extent of their own defensive preparations, and the German commanders still hoped to achieve operational surprise when the attack commenced.\n\nThe Germans did not achieve surprise and were not able to outflank or break through into enemy rear areas during the operation. Several historians assert that Operation Citadel was planned and intended to be a blitzkrieg operation. Many of the German participants who wrote about the operation after the war, including Manstein, make no mention of blitzkrieg in their accounts. In 2000, Niklas Zetterling and Anders Frankson characterised only the southern pincer of the German offensive as a \"classical blitzkrieg attack\". Pier Battistelli wrote that the operational planning marked a change in German offensive thinking away from blitzkrieg and that more priority was given to brute force and fire power than to speed and manoeuvre.\n\nIn 1995, David Glantz stated that for the first time, blitzkrieg was defeated in summer and the opposing Soviet forces were able to mount a successful counter-offensive. The Battle of Kursk ended with two Soviet counter-offensives and the revival of deep operations. In the summer of 1944, the Red Army destroyed Army Group Centre in Operation Bagration, using combined-arms tactics for armour, infantry and air power in a coordinated strategic assault, known as deep operations, which led to an advance of in six weeks.\n\nAllied armies began using combined arms formations and deep penetration strategies that Germany had used in the opening years of the war. Many Allied operations in the Western Desert and on the Eastern Front, relied on firepower to establish breakthroughs by fast-moving armoured units. These artillery-based tactics were also decisive in Western Front operations after Operation Overlord and the British Commonwealth and American armies developed flexible and powerful systems for using artillery support. What the Soviets lacked in flexibility, they made up for in number of rocket launchers, guns and mortars. The Germans never achieved the kind of fire concentrations their enemies were capable of by 1944.\n\nAfter the Allied landings at Normandy, the Germans began a counter-offensive to overwhelm the landing force with armoured attacks but these failed for lack of co-ordination and Allied superiority in anti-tank defence and in the air. The most notable attempt to use deep penetration operations in Normandy was Operation Luttich at Mortain, which only hastened the Falaise Pocket and the destruction of German forces in Normandy. The Mortain counter-attack was defeated by the US 12th Army Group with little effect on its own offensive operations.\n\nThe last German offensive on the Western front, the Battle of the Bulge (Operation \"Wacht am Rhein\"), was an offensive launched towards the port of Antwerp in December 1944. Launched in poor weather against a thinly held Allied sector, it achieved surprise and initial success as Allied air power was grounded by cloud cover. Determined defence by US troops in places throughout the Ardennes, the lack of good roads and German supply shortages caused delays. Allied forces deployed to the flanks of the German penetration and as soon as the skies cleared, Allied aircraft returned to the battlefield. Allied counter-attacks soon forced back the Germans, who abandoned much equipment for lack of fuel.\n\nThe origins of blitzkrieg are in some doubt: if it existed, who contributed to it, whether it was part of German war strategy from 1933–1939. There has been a great deal of debate about whether it existed as a coherent military strategy. Many historians now think that blitzkrieg was not a military theory and the campaigns conducted by the Germans from 1939 to circa 1942 (with the exception of Operation Barbarossa) were improvised, rather than being based on a particular military strategy. Blitzkrieg had been called a Revolution in Military Affairs (RMA) but many writers and historians have concluded that the Germans did not invent a new form of warfare but applied new technologies to traditional ideas of \"Bewegungskrieg\" (manoeuvre warfare) to achieve decisive victory.\n\nIn 1965, Captain Robert O'Neill, Professor of the History of War at the University of Oxford produced an example of the popular view. In \"Doctrine and Training in the German Army 1919–1939\", O'Neill wrote\n\nOther historians wrote that blitzkrieg was an operational doctrine of the German armed forces and a strategic concept on which the leadership of the \"Third Reich\" based its strategic and economic planning. Military planners and bureaucrats in the war economy appear rarely, if ever, to have employed the term \"blitzkrieg\" in official documents. That the German army had a \"blitzkrieg doctrine\" was rejected in the late 1970s by Matthew Cooper. The concept of a blitzkrieg \"Luftwaffe\" was challenged by Richard Overy in the late 1970s and by Williamson Murray in the mid-1980s. That the \"Third Reich\" went to war on the basis of \"blitzkrieg economics\" was criticised by Richard Overy in the 1980s and George Raudzens described the contradictory senses in which historians have used the word. The notion of a German blitzkrieg concept or doctrine survives in popular history and many historians still support the thesis.\n\nFrieser wrote that after the failure of the Schlieffen Plan in 1914, the German army concluded that decisive battles were no longer possible in the changed conditions of the twentieth century. Frieser wrote that the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (OKW), which was created in 1938 had intended to avoid the decisive battle concepts of its predecessors and planned for a long war of exhaustion (\"ermattungskrieg\"). It was only after the improvised plan for the Battle of France in 1940 was unexpectedly successful, that the German General Staff came to believe that \"vernichtungskrieg\" was still feasible. German thinking reverted to the possibility of a quick and decisive war for the Balkan Campaign and Operation Barbarossa.\n\nMost academic historians regard the notion of blitzkrieg as military doctrine to be a myth. Shimon Naveh wrote \"The striking feature of the blitzkrieg concept is the complete absence of a coherent theory which should have served as the general cognitive basis for the actual conduct of operations\". Naveh described it as an \"ad hoc solution\" to operational dangers, thrown together at the last moment. Overy disagreed with the idea that Hitler and the Nazi regime ever intended a blitzkrieg war, because the once popular belief that the Nazi state organised their economy to carry out its grand strategy in short campaigns was false. Hitler had intended for a rapid unlimited war to occur much later than 1939, but the \"Third Reich's\" aggressive foreign policy forced the Nazi state into war before it was ready. Hitler and the \"Wehrmacht's\" planning in the 1930s did not reflect a blitzkrieg method but the opposite. John Harris wrote that the Wehrmacht never used the word, and it did not appear in German army or air force field manuals; the word was coined in September 1939, by a \"Times\" newspaper reporter. Harris also found no evidence that German military thinking developed a blitzkrieg mentality. Karl-Heinz Frieser and Adam Tooze reached similar conclusions to Overy and Naveh, that the notions of blitzkrieg-economy and strategy were myths. Frieser wrote that surviving German economists and General Staff officers denied that Germany went to war with a blitzkrieg strategy. Robert M. Citino argues:\n\nHistorian Victor Davis Hanson states that \"Blitzkrieg\" \"played on the myth of German technological superiority and industrial dominance,\" adding that German successes, particularly that of its Panzer divisions were \"instead predicated on the poor preparation and morale of Germany's enemies.\" Hanson also reports that at a Munich public address in November 1941, Hitler had \"disowned\" the concept of \"Blitzkrieg\" by calling it an \"idiotic word.\" Further, successful \"Blitzkrieg\" operations were predicated on superior numbers, air-support, and were only possible for short periods of time without sufficient supply lines. For all intents and purposes, \"Blitzkrieg\" ended at the Eastern Front once the German forces gave up Stalingrad, after they faced hundreds of new T-34 tanks, when the Luftwaffe became unable to assure air dominance, and following the stalemate at Kursk—to this end, Hanson concludes that German military success was not accompanied by the adequate provisioning of its troops with food and materiel far from the source of supply, which contributed to its ultimate failures. Despite its later disappointments as German troops extended their lines at too great a distance, the very specter or armored \"Blitzkrieg\" forces initially proved victorious against Polish, Dutch, Belgian, and French armies early in the war.\n\nIn the 1960s, Alan Milward developed a theory of blitzkrieg economics, that Germany could not fight a long war and chose to avoid comprehensive rearmament and armed in breadth, to win quick victories. Milward described an economy positioned between a full war economy and a peacetime economy. The purpose of the blitzkrieg economy was to allow the German people to enjoy high living standards in the event of hostilities and avoid the economic hardships of the First World War.\n\nOvery wrote that blitzkrieg as a \"coherent military and economic concept has proven a difficult strategy to defend in light of the evidence\". Milward's theory was contrary to Hitler's and German planners' intentions. The Germans, aware of the errors of the First World War, rejected the concept of organising its economy to fight only a short war. Therefore, focus was given to the development of armament in depth for a long war, instead of armament in breadth for a short war. Hitler claimed that relying on surprise alone was \"criminal\" and that \"we have to prepare for a long war along with surprise attack\". During the winter of 1939–40, Hitler demobilised many troops from the army to return as skilled workers to factories because the war would be decided by production, not a quick \"Panzer operation\".\n\nIn the 1930s, Hitler had ordered rearmament programs that cannot be considered limited. In November 1937 Hitler had indicated that most of the armament projects would be completed by 1943–45. The rearmament of the \"Kriegsmarine\" was to have been completed in 1949 and the \"Luftwaffe\" rearmament program was to have matured in 1942, with a force capable of strategic bombing with heavy bombers. The construction and training of motorised forces and a full mobilisation of the rail networks would not begin until 1943 and 1944 respectively. Hitler needed to avoid war until these projects were complete but his misjudgements in 1939 forced Germany into war before rearmament was complete.\n\nAfter the war, Albert Speer claimed that the German economy achieved greater armaments output, not because of diversions of capacity from civilian to military industry but through streamlining of the economy. Richard Overy pointed out some 23 percent of German output was military by 1939. Between 1937 and 1939, 70 percent of investment capital went into the rubber, synthetic fuel, aircraft and shipbuilding industries. Hermann Göring had consistently stated that the task of the Four Year Plan was to rearm Germany for total war. Hitler's correspondence with his economists also reveals that his intent was to wage war in 1943–1945, when the resources of central Europe had been absorbed into the \"Third Reich\".\n\nLiving standards were not high in the late 1930s. Consumption of consumer goods had fallen from 71 percent in 1928 to 59 percent in 1938. The demands of the war economy reduced the amount of spending in non-military sectors to satisfy the demand for the armed forces. On 9 September, Göring as Head of the \"Reich Defence Council\", called for complete \"employment\" of living and fighting power of the national economy for the duration of the war. Overy presents this as evidence that a \"blitzkrieg economy\" did not exist.\n\nAdam Tooze wrote that the German economy was being prepared for a long war. The expenditure for this war was extensive and put the economy under severe strain. The German leadership were concerned less with how to balance the civilian economy and the needs of civilian consumption but to figure out how to best prepare the economy for total war. Once war had begun, Hitler urged his economic experts to abandon caution and expend all available resources on the war effort but the expansion plans only gradually gained momentum in 1941. Tooze wrote that the huge armament plans in the pre-war period did not indicate any clear-sighted blitzkrieg economy or strategy.\n\nFrieser wrote that the () was not ready for blitzkrieg at the start of the war. A blitzkrieg method called for a young, highly skilled mechanised army. In 1939–40, 45 percent of the army was 40 years old and 50 percent of the soldiers had only a few weeks' training. The German army, contrary to the blitzkrieg legend, was not fully motorised and had only 120,000 vehicles, compared to the 300,000 of the French Army. The British also had an \"enviable\" contingent of motorised forces. Thus, \"the image of the German 'Blitzkrieg' army is a figment of propaganda imagination\". During the First World War the German army used 1.4 million horses for transport and in the Second World War used 2.7 million horses; only ten percent of the army was motorised in 1940.\n\nHalf of the German divisions available in 1940 were combat ready but less well-equipped than the British and French or the Imperial German Army of 1914. In the spring of 1940, the German army was semi-modern, in which a small number of well-equipped and \"elite\" divisions were offset by many second and third rate divisions\". In 2003, John Mosier wrote that while the French soldiers in 1940 were better trained than German soldiers, as were the Americans later and that the German army was the least mechanised of the major armies, its leadership cadres were larger and better and that the high standard of leadership was the main reason for the successes of the German army in World War II, as it had been in World War I.\n\nJames Corum wrote that it was a myth that the \"Luftwaffe\" had a doctrine of terror bombing, in which civilians were attacked to break the will or aid the collapse of an enemy, by the \"Luftwaffe\" in \"Blitzkrieg\" operations. After the bombing of Guernica in 1937 and the Rotterdam Blitz in 1940, it was commonly assumed that terror bombing was a part of \"Luftwaffe\" doctrine. During the interwar period the \"Luftwaffe\" leadership rejected the concept of terror bombing in favour of battlefield support and interdiction operations.\n\nCorum continues: General Walther Wever compiled a doctrine known as \"The Conduct of the Aerial War\". This document, which the \"Luftwaffe\" adopted, rejected Giulio Douhet's theory of terror bombing. Terror bombing was deemed to be \"counter-productive\", increasing rather than destroying the enemy's will to resist. Such bombing campaigns were regarded as diversion from the \"Luftwaffe's\" main operations; destruction of the enemy armed forces. The bombings of Guernica, Rotterdam and Warsaw were tactical missions in support of military operations and were not intended as strategic terror attacks.\n\nJ. P. Harris wrote that most Luftwaffe leaders from Goering through the general staff believed (as did their counterparts in Britain and the United States) that strategic bombing was the chief mission of the air force and that given such a role, the Luftwaffe would win the next war and that\n\nThe Luftwaffe did end up with an air force consisting mainly of relatively short-range aircraft, but this does not prove that the German air force was solely interested in ’tactical’ bombing. It happened because the German aircraft industry lacked the experience to build a long-range bomber fleet quickly, and because Hitler was insistent on the very rapid creation of a numerically large force. It is also significant that Germany's position in the centre of Europe to a large extent obviated the need to make a clear distinction between bombers suitable only for ’tactical’ and those necessary for strategic purposes in the early stages of a likely future war.\n\nBritish theorists John Frederick Charles Fuller and Captain Basil Henry Liddell Hart have often been associated with the development of blitzkrieg, though this is a matter of controversy. In recent years historians have uncovered that Liddell Hart distorted and falsified facts to make it appear as if his ideas were adopted. After the war Liddell Hart imposed his own perceptions, after the event, claiming that the mobile tank warfare practised by the \"Wehrmacht\" was a result of his influence. By manipulation and contrivance, Liddell Hart distorted the actual circumstances of the blitzkrieg formation, and he obscured its origins. Through his indoctrinated idealisation of an ostentatious concept, he reinforced the myth of blitzkrieg. By imposing, retrospectively, his own perceptions of mobile warfare upon the shallow concept of blitzkrieg, he \"created a theoretical imbroglio that has taken 40 years to unravel.\" Blitzkrieg was not an official doctrine and historians in recent times have come to the conclusion that it did not exist as such.\n\nThe early 1950s literature transformed blitzkrieg into a historical military doctrine, which carried the signature of Liddell Hart and Guderian. The main evidence of Liddell Hart's deceit and \"tendentious\" report of history can be found in his letters to Erich von Manstein, Heinz Guderian and the relatives and associates of Erwin Rommel. Liddell Hart, in letters to Guderian, \"imposed his own fabricated version of blitzkrieg on the latter and compelled him to proclaim it as original formula\". Kenneth Macksey found Liddell Hart's original letters to Guderian in the General's papers, requesting that Guderian give him credit for \"impressing him\" with his ideas of armoured warfare. When Liddell Hart was questioned about this in 1968 and the discrepancy between the English and German editions of Guderian's memoirs, \"he gave a conveniently unhelpful though strictly truthful reply. ('There is nothing about the matter in my file of correspondence with Guderian himself except...that I thanked him...for what he said in that additional paragraph'.)\".\n\nDuring World War I, Fuller had been a staff officer attached to the new tank corps. He developed Plan 1919 for massive, independent tank operations, which he claimed were subsequently studied by the German military. It is variously argued that Fuller's wartime plans and post-war writings were an inspiration or that his readership was low and German experiences during the war received more attention. The German view of themselves as the losers of the war, may be linked to the senior and experienced officers' undertaking a thorough review, studying and rewriting of all their Army doctrine and training manuals.\n\nFuller and Liddell Hart were \"outsiders\": Liddell Hart was unable to serve as a soldier after 1916 after being gassed on the Somme and Fuller's abrasive personality resulted in his premature retirement in 1933. Their views had limited impact in the British army; the War Office permitted the formation of an Experimental Mechanized Force on 1 May 1927, composed of tanks, lorried infantry, self-propelled artillery and motorised engineers but the force was disbanded in 1928 on the grounds that it had served its purpose. A new experimental brigade was intended for the next year and became a permanent formation in 1933, during the cuts of the financial years.\n\nIt has been argued that blitzkrieg was not new; the Germans did not invent something called blitzkrieg in the 1920s and 1930s. Rather the German concept of wars of movement and concentrated force were seen in wars of Prussia and the German wars of unification. The first European general to introduce rapid movement, concentrated power and integrated military effort was Swedish King Gustavus Adolphus during the Thirty Years' War. The appearance of the aircraft and tank in the First World War, called an RMA, offered the German military a chance to get back to the traditional war of movement as practised by Moltke the Elder. The so-called \"blitzkrieg campaigns\" of 1939 – circa 1942, were well within that operational context.\n\nAt the outbreak of war, the German army had no radically new theory of war. The operational thinking of the German army had not changed significantly since the First World War or since the late 19th century. J. P. Harris and Robert M. Citino point out that the Germans had always had a marked preference for short, decisive campaigns – but were unable to achieve short-order victories in First World War conditions. The transformation from the stalemate of the First World War into tremendous initial operational and strategic success in the Second, was partly the employment of a relatively small number of mechanised divisions, most importantly the Panzer divisions, and the support of an exceptionally powerful air force.\n\nHeinz Guderian is widely regarded as being highly influential in developing the military methods of warfare used by Germany's tank men at the start of the Second World War. This style of warfare brought manoeuvre back to the fore, and placed an emphasis on the offensive. This style, along with the shockingly rapid collapse in the armies that opposed it, came to be branded as blitzkrieg warfare.\n\nFollowing Germany's military reforms of the 1920s, Heinz Guderian emerged as a strong proponent of mechanised forces. Within the Inspectorate of Transport Troops, Guderian and colleagues performed theoretical and field exercise work. Guderian met with opposition from some in the General Staff, who were distrustful of the new weapons and who continued to view the infantry as the primary weapon of the army. Among them, Guderian claimed, was Chief of the General Staff Ludwig Beck (1935–38), whom he alleged was sceptical that armoured forces could be decisive. This claim has been disputed by later historians. James Corum wrote:\n\nBy Guderian's account he single-handedly created the German tactical and operational methodology. Between 1922 and 1928 Guderian wrote a number of articles concerning military movement. As the ideas of making use of the combustible engine in a protected encasement to bring mobility back to warfare developed in the German army, Guderian was a leading proponent of the formations that would be used for this purpose. He was later asked to write an explanatory book, which was titled \"Achtung Panzer!\" (1937). In it he explained the theories of the tank men and defended them.\n\nGuderian argued that the tank would be the decisive weapon of the next war. \"If the tanks succeed, then victory follows\", he wrote. In an article addressed to critics of tank warfare, he wrote \"until our critics can produce some new and better method of making a successful land attack other than self-massacre, we shall continue to maintain our beliefs that tanks—properly employed, needless to say—are today the best means available for land attack.\" Addressing the faster rate at which defenders could reinforce an area than attackers could penetrate it during the First World War, Guderian wrote that \"since reserve forces will now be motorized, the building up of new defensive fronts is easier than it used to be; the chances of an offensive based on the timetable of artillery and infantry co-operation are, as a result, even slighter today than they were in the last war.\" He continued, \"We believe that by attacking with tanks we can achieve a higher rate of movement than has been hitherto obtainable, and—what is perhaps even more important—that we can keep moving once a breakthrough has been made.\" Guderian additionally required that tactical radios be widely used to facilitate coordination and command by having one installed in all tanks.\n\nGuderian's leadership was supported, fostered and institutionalised by his supporters in the Reichswehr General Staff system, which worked the Army to greater and greater levels of capability through massive and systematic Movement Warfare war games in the 1930s. Guderian's book incorporated the work of theorists such as Ludwig Ritter von Eimannsberger, whose book, \"The Tank War\" (\"Der Kampfwagenkrieg\") (1934) gained a wide audience in the German army. Another German theorist, Ernst Volckheim, wrote a huge amount on tank and combined arms tactics and was influential to German thinking on the use of armoured formations but his work was not acknowledged in Guderian's writings.\n\n\n\n\n\n["}
{"id": "23158389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23158389", "title": "Byne's disease", "text": "Byne's disease\n\nByne's disease, more accurately known as Bynesian decay, is a peculiar and permanently damaging condition (resulting from an ongoing chemical reaction) which often attacks mollusk shells that are in storage or on display for long periods of time.\n\nBynesian decay is a form of efflorescence of salts formed by the reaction of acidic vapors with the basic shell surface. The efflorescence can sometimes superficially resemble a growth of mold. Although first described in the early 19th century, Bynesian decay was not well understood until almost a hundred years later. The condition is named after the man (L. Byne) who is best known for describing it in the late 19th century, even though he was not the first person to describe it in print. In addition, Byne mistakenly assumed that the condition was caused by bacteria, and thus the condition came to be referred to as a \"disease\".\n\nIn addition to mollusk shells, various other natural history specimens are susceptible to this form of decay, including eggshells and some fossils and mineral samples that are composed of calcium carbonate. This condition is of concern for museum scientists, and also for anyone who has a private collection of specimens of these kinds. In order to avoid Bynesian decay, the use of metal, non-reactive polymers and acid-free materials of archival quality are preferred over common paper, wood-based materials, ordinary glues and varnishes in collection environments. Management of affected specimens includes washing and thorough drying, with a subsequent reallocation to an archival setting.\n\nByne's disease can appear as a powdery white coating on a shell. It also often looks as if a shell has been \"infected\" with mold; however, under magnification the mold-like appearance is revealed to be a crystalline growth of salts.\n\nIn 1839, the British naturalist and malacologist Thomas Brown (1785–1862) briefly mentioned this form of deterioration in his book \"A Conchologist's Text-Book\". Agnes Kenyon also described the condition in 1896, suggesting that \"saline particles in the atmosphere [were] evidently exerting a corrosive effect\".\n\n\nIn 1899, the British amateur conchologist and naturalist Loftus St. George Byne (1872–1947) described this condition, in a presentation to the Conchological Society of Great Britain in Ireland, and did so again in another presentation in June of that same year.\n\nByne was convinced that butyric acid was present together with calcium acetate in the affected shells, although he never really described the methods he used in the so-called \"extensive chemical tests\" he claimed to have applied to these specimens. Among other conclusions, he assumed that the butyric acid originated from bacterial activity. He also concluded that the decaying effect 'travelled from shell to shell and drawer to drawer', and thus the condition came to be called a \"disease\".\n\n\nThe true nature of the \"disease\" was partially clarified in 1934, when the British government chemist John Ralph Nicholls explained that oak cabinets at the Natural History Museum in London were giving off acetic acid fumes, which were attacking the shells stored in them.\n\nIn 1985, almost 150 years after the Byne's disease was first mentioned in the literature, Norman H. Tennent and Thomas Baird published an extensive study on the subject. Their deep analysis, involving many complex and sophisticated techniques such as X-Ray diffraction, infrared spectroscopy, thermogravimetric analysis and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, finally revealed the true nature of the decaying process. They identified the substances involved (the calcium salts), as well as the chemical reactions that originated them. They concluded that Byne's disease is not actually a disease, and is in fact caused by simple chemical reactions which occur in the presence of acidic vapors originating from the immediate environment in which the specimens are stored.\n\nBynesian decay usually starts when specimens are stored or displayed for considerable periods of time in an enclosed space. The storage method itself usually causes this problem, when containers, cabinets or display cases are entirely or partially made of wood, plywood or other wood products such as Masonite, or when the specimens are surrounded by, or in contact with, various other kinds of materials that are cellulose-based and can turn water vapor acidic.\n\nOther potentially damaging materials include non-archival quality cardboard, card, paper, cotton and cork, all of which give off acidic vapors over time. PVC and polyurethane plastics are also a problem, as they also degrade and give off acidic vapors with time. High humidity of the air is a significant contributing factor, as is lack of ventilation of the specimens. High ambient temperatures can increase the rapidity of the decay.\n\nGenerally, in cabinets or display cases that are entirely or partially made of wood, the hydrolysis of acetyl groups in the wood hemicelluloses creates acetic acid. The rate at which the acetic acid is produced is proportional to the concentration of esters in the wood, the humidity, the temperature, and the overall acidity of the environment. Acidic fumes can also be released from formaldehyde which can occur in wood as a degradation product of lignin. Acidic fumes can also be given off from ubiquitous formaldehyde resins (commonly urea-formaldehyde resins).\n\nIn the first case, acetic acid reacts with the calcium carbonate (one of the main components of freshwater, marine and land shells, birds' eggs and other such specimens) producing calcium acetate, a salt. Formaldehyde can be oxidized by the oxygen in air to create formic acid, which then has basically the same effects as acetic acid, reacting with calcium carbonate to produce a salt. The salts (calcium acetate and calcium formate) crystallize through the specimen's outer surface, destroying its fine detail and exposing more areas for further reaction. As the condition progresses, the salt crystals build up over the specimen's surface, which becomes increasingly eroded.\n\nThe calcium carbonate and acetic acid chemical reaction occurs as follows:\n\nCalcium carbonate and formic acid chemical reaction occurs as follows:\n\nCalcium carbonate and sulfuric acid chemical reaction occurs as follows:\n\nIn this last reaction, calcium carbonate reacts with sulfuric acid and produce calcium sulfate, water and carbon dioxide.\n\nWhen specimens are to be placed in any size of container for long-term storage or display, the consistent use of only archival-quality materials prevents the development of Byne's disease. Thus, materials such as metal cabinets and display cases, archival quality paper labels and card trays are used in museum collections of specimens that might be vulnerable to this reaction.\n\nIt is also worth mentioning that sea shells, after collecting, need to be washed thoroughly in freshwater to remove the salt that is on and in the shell, and then dried thoroughly before they are stored. Salt attracts moisture and makes shells more vulnerable to Bynesian decay.\n\nThe following is a chart that shows non-archival materials and their archival equivalents:\n\nIf possible, the use of wood and cellulose derivatives should be avoided entirely. Many varnishes and paints are well known emitters of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), some of which may be acidic, and thus have the potential to damage calcium carbonate specimens. Because of this, these coatings should also be avoided; water-based varnishes and paints are considered less harmful, and should be preferred.\n\nBecause the reactions involved in Bynesian decay require a certain quantity of moisture in the air in order for them to take place, keeping the air somewhat dry, i.e. keeping the environmental relative humidity under control is beneficial. This is achieved by careful monitoring of the relative humidity (using instruments such as a hygrometer), and applying dehumidifiers when necessary; sometimes, simple air conditioning systems may suffice. Extremely low humidity can damage some specimens, so caution is recommended. Usually, a relative humidity maintained around 50% is considered to be adequate. Applying sorbents containing a strong base, such as potassium hydroxide, inside the storage environment to protect the specimens against degradation is also possible. Copy paper or KOH-impregnated filter paper are some low cost examples of sorbents which can be used. These strong bases have a preference to react with acid, thus they compete successfully with the calcium carbonate specimens for any acidic vapors that may be present. The bases also help reduce the overall acid concentration inside the enclosed space.\n\nThe damage to specimens is unfortunately not reversible; however, the decay can be arrested by washing or soaking the specimens in water, followed by a very thorough drying. The specimens must then be placed in an environment that consists of only archival materials, in a completely archival setting.\n\nIn collections which contain fossils, high humidity can also affect pyrite (or its more reactive polymorph marcasite) (iron sulphide) fossils in a somewhat similar condition, which is known as pyrite disease. The iron sulfide can react with water and oxygen to form iron sulfates and sulfuric acid, which then can produce Bynesian decay.\n"}
{"id": "793319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=793319", "title": "Comparison of OpenGL and Direct3D", "text": "Comparison of OpenGL and Direct3D\n\nDirect3D and OpenGL are competing application programming interfaces (APIs) which can be used in applications to render 2D and 3D computer graphics. Hardware acceleration of this process has been commonplace since approximately 1999. , graphics processing units (GPUs) almost always implement one version of both of these APIs. Examples include: DirectX 9 and OpenGL 2 circa 2004; DirectX 10 and OpenGL 3 circa 2008; and most recently, DirectX 11 and OpenGL 4 circa 2011. GPUs that support more recent versions of the standards are backward-compatible with applications that use the older standards; for example, one can run older DirectX 9 games on a more recent DirectX 11-certified GPU.\n\nDirect3D application development targets the Microsoft Windows platform.\n\nThe OpenGL API is an open standard, which means that various hardware makers and operating system developers can freely create an OpenGL implementation as part of their system. OpenGL implementations exist for a wide variety of platforms. Most notably, OpenGL is the dominating graphics API of Unix-like computer systems.\n\nFrom an application developer's perspective, Direct3D and OpenGL are equally open; full documentation and necessary development tools are available with no restrictions.\n\nIn more detail, the two computer graphics APIs are the following:\n\n\nNote that many essential OpenGL extensions and methods, although documented, are also patented, thus imposing serious legal troubles to implement them (see issues with Mesa).\n\nOpenGL and Direct3D are both implemented in the display device driver. A significant difference however is that Direct3D implements the API in a common runtime (supplied by Microsoft), which in turn talks to a low-level \"device driver interface\" (DDI). With OpenGL, every vendor implements the full API in the driver. This means that some API functions may have slightly different behavior from one vendor to the next. The GLSL shader compilers of different vendors also show slightly different behavior.\nThe following compares the two APIs, structured around various considerations mostly relevant to game development.\n\nThe proprietary Direct3D is officially implemented only on Microsoft's Windows family of operating systems, including embedded versions used in the Xbox family of video game consoles and Sega's Dreamcast. Several mostly functional reimplementations of the Direct3D API have been made by third parties such as Wine, a project to port common Windows APIs to Unix-like operating systems, and Cedega, a proprietary fork of Wine. However, this process is progressively impeded due to the interdependence of DirectX upon many other proprietary components of Windows, and because Direct3D's proprietary nature requires the difficult process of reverse engineering.\n\nOpenGL has implementations available across many platforms including Microsoft Windows, Unix-based systems such as Mac OS X, Linux. Nintendo and Sony have developed their own libraries which are similar but not identical to OpenGL. A subset of OpenGL was chosen as the main graphics library for Android, BlackBerry, iOS, and Symbian in the OpenGL ES form.\n\nMicrosoft's OpenGL driver provides hardware acceleration in Windows Vista; support was dropped in Windows XP, soon after they failed to deliver Fahrenheit graphics API low level support for an OpenGL-Direct3D merger in the late 1990s. OpenGL hardware acceleration on Windows is achieved by users first installing \"installable client drivers\" (ICDs) developed by GPU makers. These ICDs are, in virtually all cases, bundled with the standard driver download package from the hardware vendor (IHV), so installing recent graphics drivers is sufficient to provide hardware OpenGL support.\n\nMore recently, Google's \"Almost Native Graphics Layer Engine\" (ANGLE) project provides a means to convert \"OpenGL ES 2.0\" application calls to \"DirectX 9\". This is done so that WebGL (a subset variant of OpenGL for the web) can run on the common Direct3D runtime, which means there will be less variation between vendors.\n\nThe first version of Direct3D in 1996 elicited broad criticism because even simple operations, such as state changes, required creating and submitting objects called \"execute buffers\". In contrast, in OpenGL most state changes can be performed with one function call. The Direct3D model frustrated many programmers. A very famous complaint was made by high-profile game developer John D. Carmack in his codice_1 file in which he urged Microsoft to abandon Direct3D in favor of OpenGL. Chris Hecker made a similar request in an \"Open Letter to Microsoft\" in the April–May 1997 issue of Game Developer Magazine.\n\nVersion 5 (the second version, named to reflect its release as part of DirectX 5) replaced execute buffers with the new DrawPrimitive API, but it was still considered cumbersome. Chris Hecker's \"Open Letter to Microsoft\" referred to DrawPrimitive as \"an immature and poorly-designed clone of OpenGL that's missing some of the architectural decisions that make OpenGL fast.\"\n\nDespite the controversy, Microsoft continued to evolve the API. A detailed history of releases and added features is given on the Microsoft Direct3D web pages.\n\nSome former critics of Direct3D acknowledge that now Direct3D is as good if not better than OpenGL in abilities and ease of use. In January 2007, John Carmack said that \"…DX9 is really quite a good API level. Even with the Direct3D side of things, where I know I have a long history of people thinking I'm antagonistic against it. Microsoft has done a very, very good job of sensibly evolving it at each step—they're not worried about breaking backwards compatibility—and it's a pretty clean API. I especially like the work I'm doing on the 360, and it's probably the best graphics API as far as a sensibly designed thing that I've worked with.\"\n\nSome design features of Direct3D have remained unchanged since version one, most notably its reliance on Microsoft's Component Object Model (COM). One advantage of using COM is that the API can be used in any COM-aware language, notably Object Pascal (Delphi), and Microsoft Visual C++, C#, and Visual Basic .NET.\n\nOpenGL is a specification implemented in the programming language C, though it can be used in other languages. It is built on the concept of a state machine. As an API, OpenGL depends on no one programming language feature, and can be made callable from almost any language with the proper bindings. Such bindings exist for most current programming languages.\n\nIn general, Direct3D is designed to virtualize 3D hardware interfaces. Direct3D frees the game programmer from accommodating the graphics hardware. OpenGL, on the other hand, is designed to be a 3D hardware-accelerated rendering system that may be emulated in software. These two APIs are fundamentally designed under two separate modes of thought.\n\nAs such, there are functional differences in how the two APIs work. One functional difference between the APIs is in how they manage hardware resources. Direct3D expects the application to do it, OpenGL makes the implementation do it. This tradeoff for OpenGL decreases difficulty in developing for the API, while at the same time increasing the complexity of creating an implementation (or driver) that performs well. With Direct3D, the developer must manage hardware resources independently; however, the implementation is simpler, and developers have the flexibility to allocate resources in the most efficient way possible for their application.\n\nUntil about 2005, another functional difference between the APIs was the way they handled rendering to textures. The Direct3D method (codice_2) is convenient, while prior versions of OpenGL required manipulating pixel buffers (P-buffers). This was cumbersome and risky: if the codepath used in a program was different from that anticipated by a driver maker, the code would fall back to software rendering, causing a substantial performance drop. However, broad support for the \"frame buffer objects\" extension, which provided an OpenGL equivalent of the Direct3D method, successfully addressed this shortcoming, and the \"render target\" feature of OpenGL brought it up to par with Direct3D in this aspect.\n\nOutside of a few minor functional differences which have mostly been addressed over the years, the two APIs provide nearly the same level of function. Hardware and software makers generally respond rapidly to changes in DirectX, e.g., pixel processor and shader requirements in DirectX 9 to stream processors in DirectX 10, to tessellation in DirectX 11. In contrast, new features in OpenGL are usually implemented first by vendors and then retroactively applied to the standard.\n\nShortly after the establishment of both Direct3D and OpenGL as viable graphics libraries (circa 1995), Microsoft and SGI engaged in what has been called the \"API Wars\". Much of the argument revolved around which API offered superior performance. This question was relevant due to the very high cost of dedicated graphics processors during this time, which meant the consumer market was using software renderers implemented by Microsoft for both Direct3D and OpenGL.\n\nDOS business software such as AutoCAD and DOS games such as id Software's \"Quake\" originally had to be optimized to run on many different graphics chipsets. When hardware makers such as 3Dlabs (member of the OpenGL Architecture Review Board) made OpenGL compatible graphics accelerators (e.g., GLint chip), developers such as John Carmack of id Software optimized their products for OpenGL. As multitasking user environments such as Windows and the X Window System (X11) on Unix-like systems became prevalent, the relevance of this hardware faded.\n\nMicrosoft had marketed Direct3D as faster based on in-house performance comparisons of these two software libraries. The performance deficit was blamed on the rigorous specification and conformance required of OpenGL. This perception was changed at the 1996 Special Interest Group on GRAPHics and Interactive Techniques (SIGGRAPH) conference. At that time, Silicon Graphics (SGI) challenged Microsoft with their own optimized Windows software implementation of OpenGL called CosmoGL which in various demos matched or exceeded the performance of Direct3D. For SGI, this was a critical milestone as it showed that OpenGL's poor software rendering performance was due to Microsoft's reference OpenGL implementation, and not due to alleged design flaws in OpenGL.\n\nIn contrast, software rendering by the 3D API was largely irrelevant for both Direct3D and OpenGL applications. Not many DirectX applications used Direct3D's software rendering, preferring to perform their own software rendering using DirectDraw's facilities to access the display hardware. As for OpenGL applications, hardware support was expected, and the hardware was so much faster that software fallback by the OpenGL application constituted a rude surprise to the OpenGL developer.\n\nIn any case, by the time SGI had demonstrated that OpenGL software rendering performance could be competitive with that of Direct3D, software rendering was fast becoming irrelevant due to the wide availability of low cost 3D graphics hardware. By 1998, even the S3 ViRGE graphics accelerator was substantially faster than the fastest Pentium II running Direct3D's MMX rasterizer.\n\nA more substantive and modern performance difference arises because of the structure of the hardware drivers provided by hardware developers. Under DirectX, independent hardware vendor (IHV) drivers are kernel-mode drivers installed into the operating system. The user-mode part of the API is handled by the DirectX runtime provided by Microsoft. Under OpenGL however, the IHV driver is divided in two parts: a user-mode part that implements the OpenGL API, and a kernel-mode driver that is called by the user-mode part.\n\nThis is an issue because calling kernel-mode operations from user-mode requires performing a system call (i.e., making the CPU switch to kernel mode). This is a slow operation, taking on the order of microseconds to complete. During this time, the CPU can perform no operations. As such, minimizing the number of times this switching operation occurs would improve performance. For example, if the GPU's command buffer is full of rendering data, the API could simply store the requested rendering call in a temporary buffer and, when the command buffer is nearly empty, it can perform a switch to kernel-mode and add a set of stored commands in a batch. This is termed marshalling.\n\nBecause Direct3D IHV drivers are kernel-mode, and the user-mode code is out of the IHV's hand, there is no chance for such optimizations to occur. Because the Direct3D runtime, the user-mode part that implements the API, cannot have explicit knowledge of the driver's inner workings, it cannot effectively support marshalling. This means that every Direct3D call that sends commands to the hardware must perform a kernel-mode switch, which again, takes time in the order of microseconds to complete. This has led to several behaviors regarding use of Direct3D, the most important being the need for submitting large batches of triangles in one function call.\n\nSince OpenGL's IHV drivers have a user-mode component to them, IHVs have the ability to implement marshalling, thus improving performance. There is still kernel-mode switching, but the theoretical maximum number of switches under OpenGL implementations is simply equal to the Direct3D standard behavior.\n\nDirect3D 10, the release included with Windows Vista, allows parts of drivers to run in user-mode, making it possible for IHVs to implement marshalling, thus bringing the two back into relative performance parity. Mac OS X's OpenGL system is very similar, where IHVs implement a simpler version of the OpenGL API (with both user and kernel mode components), and Apple's additions to the runtime provide the direct interface to the user code, and some basic work to make IHVs' jobs easier.\n\nThe introduction of Mantle by AMD lead to increased discussion about modernizing APIs, and updating abstraction concepts used by all APIs to reflect graphics processing unit (GPU) operations. Both Microsoft and OpenGL vendors began to showcase their visions for limiting or removing altogether driver overhead (the amount of work the CPU needs to do to prepare GPU commands).\n\nIn March 2014, Microsoft presented basic assumptions and goals for the DirectX12 3D component (to be ready for December 2015). OpenGL vendors took a different approach, and during GDC 2014 presented a mix of features mandatory in OpenGL 4.3 & OpenGL 4.4 or already ARB extensions, to show fast paths already present in implementations from Nvidia, AMD, and Intel. Later AMD donated Mantle to Khronos Group, the API was renamed Vulkan and now this is the current cross-platform API dedicated to reduce driver overhead, while better distributing work among multiple CPU and GPU cores, using an unified management of compute kernels and graphical shaders.\n\nDuring the presentation, \"apitest\" was introduced. It is a new tool for microbenchmarking specific solutions for given problems emphasizing exploration of fast paths in current APIs. Both OpenGL 4.x and Direct3D 11 are supported. Gathered results showed that modern OpenGL can be many times faster than Direct3D 11.\n\nOpenGL, originally designed for then-powerful SGI workstations, includes many features, like stereo rendering and the \"imaging subset\", that were generally considered of limited use for games, although stereoscopic gaming has drawn more interest with the development of consumer-level 3D displays. The API as a whole contains about 250 calls, but only a subset of perhaps 100 are useful for game development. However, no official gaming-specific subset was ever defined. MiniGL, released by 3Dfx as a stopgap measure to support GLQuake, might have served as a starting point, but additional features like stencil were soon adopted by games, and support for the full OpenGL standard continued. Today, workstations and consumer machines use the same architectures and operating systems, and so modern versions of the OpenGL standard still include these features, although only special workstation-class video cards accelerate them.\n\nThe OpenGL \"extension\" mechanism is probably the most heavily disputed difference between the two APIs. OpenGL includes a mechanism where any driver can advertise its own extensions to the API, thus introducing new functions such as blend modes, new ways to transfer data to GPUs, or different texture wrapping parameters. This allows new functions to be exposed quickly, but can lead to confusion if different vendors implement similar extensions with different APIs. Many of these extensions are periodically standardized by the OpenGL Architecture Review Board (ARB), and some are made a core part of future OpenGL revisions.\n\nOn the other hand, Direct3D is specified by one vendor only (Microsoft), leading to a more consistent API, but denying access to vendor-specific features. NVIDIA's UltraShadow technology, for instance, is not available in the stock Direct3D APIs at the time of writing. It should be noted that Direct3D does support texture format extensions (via \"FourCC\"). These were once little-known and rarely used, but are now used for S3 Texture Compression.\n\nWhen graphics cards added support for pixel shaders (known on OpenGL as \"fragment shaders\"), Direct3D provided one \"Pixel Shader 1.1\" (PS1.1) standard with which the GeForce 3 and up, and Radeon 8500 and up, advertised compatibility. Under OpenGL the same functions were accessed through a variety of custom extensions.\n\nIn theory, the Microsoft approach allows one code path to support both brands of card, whereas under OpenGL, programmers must write two separate systems. In reality, though, because of the limits on pixel processing of those early cards, Pixel Shader 1.1 was nothing more than a pseudo-assembly language version of the NVIDIA-specific OpenGL extensions. For the most part, the only cards that claimed PS 1.1 functionality were by NVIDIA, and that is because they were built for it natively. When the Radeon 8500 was released, Microsoft released an update to Direct3D that included Pixel Shader 1.4, which was nothing more than a pseudo-assembly language version of the ATI-specific OpenGL extensions. The only cards that claimed PS 1.4 support were ATI cards because they were designed with the precise hardware needed to make that functionality happen.\n\nThis situation existed only for a short time under both APIs. Second-generation pixel shading cards functioned far more similarly, with each architecture evolving toward the same kind of pixel processing conclusion. As such, Pixel Shader 2.0 allowed a unified code path under Direct3D. Around the same time OpenGL introduced its own ARB-approved vertex and pixel shader extensions (codice_3 and codice_4), and both sets of cards supported this standard also.\n\nOpenGL has always seen more use in the professional graphics market than DirectX, while DirectX is used mostly for computer games. (The term \"professional\" is used here to refer to the professional production and display of graphics, such as in computer animated films and scientific visualisation, as opposed to games where the graphics produced are for the end user's personal, rather than professional, use.) Currently both OpenGL and DirectX have a large enough overlap in functionality that either could be used for most common purposes, with the operating system often being the main criterion dictating which is used; DirectX is the common choice for Windows, and OpenGL for nearly everything else. Some esoteric applications still divide the applicability of the two APIs: doing accelerated 3D across a network connection is only directly supported by OpenGL with \"OpenGL Extension to the X Window System\" (GLX), for example.\n\nIn the past, many professional graphics cards supported only OpenGL. As of 2010, virtually all professional cards which work on the Windows platform will also support Direct3D. Part of this has been a change in the professional graphics market from largely Unix-based hardware like SGIs and Suns to lower cost PC-based systems, leading to the growth of Windows in this market segment, while at the same time providing a new market for OpenGL software in Unix-based consumer systems running Linux or Mac OS X.\n\nThe principal historical reason for OpenGL's dominance in the professional market was performance. Many professional graphics applications (for example, Softimage|3D, Alias PowerAnimator) were originally written in IRIS GL for high-end SGI workstations, which were far more capable, both graphically and in raw CPU power, than the PCs of the time. Later, many of these were ported to OpenGL, even as the personal computer was evolving into a system powerful enough to run some professional graphics applications. Users were able to run Maya, for example, the successor to Alias PowerAnimator on either SGIs or Windows-based personal computers (and today on Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows). Price competition eventually broke SGI's dominance in the market, but the established base of OpenGL software engineers and the broadening user base for OpenGL in Apple, Linux, and other operating systems, has resulted in a market where both DirectX and OpenGL are viable, widespread APIs.\n\nThe other reason for OpenGL's historic advantage was marketing and design. DirectX is a set of APIs that were not marketed for professional graphics applications. Indeed, they were not even designed for such uses. DirectX was an API designed for low-level, high-performance access to broadly available, lower-performance, consumer-priced graphics hardware for the purpose of game development. OpenGL is a much more general purpose 3D API, targeting a full range of graphics hardware from low-end commodity graphics cards up to professional and scientific graphics visualization well out of the range of the average consumer, and providing features that are not necessarily exclusive for a specific kind of user.\n\nGaming developers typically haven't demanded as wide an API as professional graphics system developers. Many games don't need overlay planes, stencils, and so on, although this hasn't prevented some game developers from using them when available. Specifically, game designers are rarely interested in the pixel invariance demanded in certain parts of the OpenGL standards, which are conversely highly useful to film and computer-aided modeling.\n\nAn attempt was once made to merge OpenGL and DirectX by SGI and Microsoft. The Fahrenheit graphics API was intended to bring together both the high end ability of OpenGL with the broad low-level support of DirectX. Microsoft eventually retreated from the project, having never allocated sufficient resources to produce its part of the rendering engine. The move was widely held to be purposed to ensure lock-in of developers to the Windows-DirectX platform, which would be lost if the Fahrenheit API became the world de facto standard graphics API. However, Fahrenheit led to many improvements in DirectX, and the main architect of Fahrenheit now works at Microsoft on DirectX.\n\nIn the earliest days of 3D accelerated gaming, performance and reliability were key benchmarks and several 3D accelerator cards competed against each other for dominance. Software was written for a specific brand of graphics card. However, over the years, OpenGL and Direct3D emerged as software layers above the hardware, mainly because of industry support for a cross-hardware graphics library. Competition between the two rose as each game developer would choose either one or the other.\n\nIn the early days of 3D accelerated gaming, most vendors did not supply a full OpenGL driver. The reason for this was twofold. Firstly, most of the consumer-oriented accelerators did not implement enough functionality to properly accelerate OpenGL. Secondly, many vendors struggled to implement a full OpenGL driver with good performance and compatibility. Instead, they wrote MiniGL drivers, which only implemented a subset of OpenGL, enough to run GLQuake (and later other OpenGL games, mostly based on the Quake engine). Proper OpenGL drivers became more prevalent as hardware evolved, and consumer-oriented accelerators caught up with the SGI systems for which OpenGL was originally designed. This would be around the time of DirectX 6 or DirectX 7.\n\nIn the console world proprietary native APIs are dominant, with some consoles (e.g., the PS3) providing an OpenGL wrapper around its native API. The original Xbox supported Direct3D 8.1 as its native API while the Xbox 360 supports DirectX9 as its native API. Most console developers prefer to use the native APIs for each console to maximize performance, making OpenGL and Direct3D comparisons relevant for mostly PC platforms.\n\nOpenGL for Embedded Systems, called OpenGL ES, is a subset of the OpenGL 3D graphics API designed for embedded devices. Various versions of smartphone operating systems support OpenGL ES, such as Android, iOS (iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch), Maemo (Nokia N900), and Symbian.\n\nOpenGL ES is available in 6 variants, OpenGL ES 1.0, 1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2. The release of 2.0 removed backward compatibility with older variants, due to the extensive programmable pipeline functions available in GL ES 2.0, over the fixed-pipeline functions of GL ES 1.0 and 1.1. OpenGL ES 3.0 needed new hardware over OpenGL ES 2.0, while OpenGL ES 3.1 is meant as a software update, needing only new drivers.\n\nDirect3D Mobile, a Direct3D derivative, is supported by Windows CE. Currently all Windows Phone 7 devices use a .NET Framework UI accelerated by Direct3D Mobile 9 on Adreno 200/205 integrated GPUs by Qualcomm.\n\nWindows Phone 8 implements Direct3D 11 (limited to feature level 9_3).\n\n"}
{"id": "2471637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2471637", "title": "Comparison of the AK-47 and M16", "text": "Comparison of the AK-47 and M16\n\nThe two most common assault rifles in the world are the Soviet AK-47 and the American M16. These Cold War-era rifles have been used in conflicts both large and small since the 1960s. They are used by military, police, security forces, revolutionaries, terrorists, criminals and civilians alike and will most likely continue to be used for decades to come. As a result, they have been the subject of countless comparisons and endless debate.\n\nThe AK-47 was finalized, adopted and entered widespread service in the Soviet Army in the early 1950s. Its firepower, ease of use, low production costs, and reliability were perfectly suited for the Soviet Army's new mobile warfare doctrines. More AK-type weapons have been produced than all other assault rifles combined. In 1974, the Soviets began replacing their AK-47 and AKM rifles with a newer design, the AK-74, which uses 5.45×39mm ammunition.\n\nThe M16 entered U.S. service in the mid-1960s. Despite its early failures, the M16 proved to be a revolutionary design and stands as the longest continuously serving rifle in American military history. It is a benchmark against which other assault rifles are judged. The U.S. Military has largely replaced the M16 in combat units with a shorter and lighter version called the M4 carbine.\n\nThe Germans were the first to pioneer the assault rifle concept, during World War II, based upon research that showed that most firefights happen within 400 meters and that contemporary rifles were over-powered for most small arms combat. They would soon develop a select-fire intermediate powered rifle combining the firepower of a submachine gun with the range and accuracy of a rifle.\n\nThe result was the Sturmgewehr 44, which the Germans produced in large numbers; approximately half a million were made. It fired a new and revolutionary intermediate powered cartridge, the 7.92×33mm Kurz. This new cartridge was developed by shortening the standard 7.92×57mm Mauser round and giving it a lighter 125-grain bullet, that limited range but allowed for more controllable automatic fire. A smaller lighter cartridge also allowed soldiers to carry more ammunition \"to support the higher consumption rate of automatic fire.\"\n\nThe Sturmgewehr 44 features an inexpensive, easy-to-make, stamped steel design and a 30-round detachable box magazine. \"This weapon was the prototype of all successful automatic rifles. Characteristically (and unlike previous rifles and the M-14) it had a straight stock with the barrel under the gas cylinder to reduce the turning moment of recoil of the rifle in the shoulder and thus help reduce the tendency of shots to climb in automatic fire. The barrel and overall length were shorter than a traditional rifle and it had a pistol grip to hold the weapon more securely in automatic fire. The principle of this weapon — the reduction of muzzle impulse to get usable automatic fire within the actual ranges of combat — was probably the most important advance in small arms since the invention of smokeless powder.\"\n\nLike the Germans, the Soviets were influenced by experience showing most combat happens within 400 meters and that their soldiers were consistently outgunned by heavily armed German troops, especially those armed with the Sturmgewehr 44 assault rifles. On July 15, 1943, a Sturmgewehr was demonstrated before the People's Commissariat of Arms of the USSR. The Soviets were so impressed with the Sturmgewehr, that they immediately set about developing an intermediate caliber automatic rifle of their own, to replace the badly outdated Mosin–Nagant bolt-action rifles and PPSh-41 submachine guns that armed most of the Soviet Army.\n\nThe Soviets soon developed the 7.62×39mm M43 cartridge, the semi-automatic SKS carbine and the RPD light machine gun. Shortly after World War II, the Soviets developed the AK-47 assault rifle, which would quickly replace the SKS in Soviet service. The AK-47 was finalized, adopted and entered widespread service in the Soviet army in the early 1950s. Its firepower, ease of use, low production costs, and reliability were perfectly suited for the Red Army's new mobile warfare doctrines. In the 1960s, the Soviets introduced the RPK light machine gun, itself an AK-47 type weapon with a bi-pod, a stronger receiver, and a longer, heavier barrel that would eventually replace the RPD light machine gun.\n\nThe AK-47 was widely supplied or sold to nations allied with the USSR, and the blueprints were shared with several friendly nations (the People's Republic of China standing out among these with the Type 56). As a result, more AK-type weapons have been produced than all other assault rifles combined. \"Of the estimated 500 million firearms worldwide, approximately 100 million belong to the Kalashnikov family, three-quarters of which are AK-47s.\"\n\nOn the other hand, the U.S. Army was influenced by combat experience with semi-automatic weapons such as the M1 Garand and M1 Carbine, which enjoyed a significant advantage over enemies armed primarily with bolt-action rifles. Although U.S. Army studies of World War II combat accounts had very similar results to that of the Germans and Soviets, the U.S. Army failed to recognize the importance of the assault rifle concept, and instead maintained its traditional views and preference for high-powered semi-automatic rifles. At the time, the U.S. Army believed that the Sturmgewehr 44 was \"intended in a general way to serve the same purpose as the U.S. carbine\" and was in many ways inferior to the M1 carbine, and was of \"little importance\".\n\nAfter World War II, the United States military started looking for a single automatic rifle to replace the M1 Garand, M1/M2 Carbines, M1918 Browning Automatic Rifle, M3 \"Grease Gun\" and Thompson submachine gun. However, early experiments with select-fire versions of the M1 Garand proved disappointing. During the Korean War, the select-fire M2 Carbine largely replaced the submachine gun in US service and became the most widely used Carbine variant. However, combat experience suggested that the .30 Carbine round was under-powered. American weapons designers reached the same conclusion as the Germans and Soviets: an intermediate round was necessary, and recommended a small-caliber, high-velocity cartridge.\n\nHowever, senior American commanders having faced fanatical enemies and experienced major logistical problems during WWII and the Korean War, insisted that a single powerful .30 caliber cartridge be developed, that could not only be used by the new automatic rifle, but by the new general-purpose machine gun (GPMG) in concurrent development. This culminated in the development of the 7.62×51mm NATO cartridge.\n\nThe United States Army then began testing several rifles to replace the obsolete M1 Garand. Springfield Armory's T44E4 and heavier T44E5 were essentially updated versions of the Garand chambered for the new 7.62 mm round, while Fabrique Nationale submitted their FN FAL as the T48. ArmaLite entered the competition late, hurriedly submitting several AR-10 prototype rifles in the fall of 1956 to the United States Army's Springfield Armory for testing.\n\nThe AR-10 featured an innovative straight-line barrel/stock design, forged aluminum alloy receivers and with phenolic composite stocks. It had rugged elevated sights, an oversized aluminum flash suppressor and recoil compensator, and an adjustable gas system. The final prototype, featured an upper and lower receiver with the now-familiar hinge and takedown pins, and the charging handle was on top of the receiver placed inside of the carry handle. For a 7.62mm NATO rifle, the AR-10 was incredibly lightweight at only 6.85 lbs. empty. Initial comments by Springfield Armory test staff were favorable, and some testers commented that the AR-10 was the best lightweight automatic rifle ever tested by the Armory.\n\nIn the end the United States Army chose the T44 now called the M14 rifle which was an improved M1 Garand with a 20-round magazine and automatic fire capability. The U.S. also adopted the M60 general purpose machine gun (GPMG). Its NATO partners adopted the FN FAL and HK G3 rifles, as well as the FN MAG and Rheinmetall MG3 GPMGs.\n\nThe first confrontations between the AK-47 and the M14 came in the early part of the Vietnam War. Battlefield reports indicated that the M14 was uncontrollable in full-auto and that soldiers could not carry enough ammo to maintain fire superiority over the AK-47. And, while the M2 Carbine offered a high rate of fire, it was under-powered and ultimately outclassed by the AK-47. A replacement was needed: A medium between the traditional preference for high-powered rifles such as the M14, and the lightweight firepower of the M2 Carbine.\n\nAs a result, the Army was forced to reconsider a 1957 request by General Willard G. Wyman, commander of the U.S. Continental Army Command (CONARC) to develop a .223 caliber (5.56 mm) select-fire rifle weighing 6 lbs (2.7 kg) when loaded with a 20-round magazine. The 5.56mm round had to penetrate a standard U.S. helmet at 500 yards (460 meters) and retain a velocity in excess of the speed of sound, while matching or exceeding the wounding ability of the .30 Carbine cartridge.\n\nThis request ultimately resulted in the development of a scaled-down version of the Armalite AR-10, called ArmaLite AR-15 rifle. However, despite overwhelming evidence that the AR-15 could bring more firepower to bear than the M14, the Army opposed the adoption of the new rifle. In January 1963, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara concluded that the AR-15 was the superior weapon system and ordered a halt to M14 production. At the time, the AR-15 was the only rifle available that could fulfill the requirement of a universal infantry weapon for issue to all services.\n\nAfter modifications (most notably, the charging handle was re-located from under the carrying handle like AR-10 to the rear of the receiver), the new redesigned rifle was subsequently adopted as the M16 Rifle. \"(The M16) was much lighter compared to the M14 it replaced, ultimately allowing Soldiers to carry more ammunition. The air-cooled, gas-operated, magazine-fed assault rifle was made of steel, aluminum alloy and composite plastics, truly cutting-edge for the time. Designed with full and semi-automatic capabilities, the weapon initially did not respond well to wet and dirty conditions, sometimes even jamming in combat. After a few minor modifications, the weapon gained in popularity among troops on the battlefield.\"\n\nDespite its early failures the M16 proved to be a revolutionary design and stands as the longest continuously serving rifle in American military history. It has been adopted by many U.S. allies and the 5.56×45mm NATO cartridge has become not only the NATO standard, but \"the standard assault-rifle cartridge in much of the world.\" It also led to the development of small-caliber high-velocity service rifles by every major army in the world, including the USSR and People's Republic of China. It is a benchmark against which other assault rifles are judged.\n\nThe M16 is a select-fire, 5.56×45mm, air-cooled, direct impingement gas-operated, magazine-fed rifle, with a rotating bolt and straight-line recoil design. It was designed above all else to be a lightweight assault rifle, and to fire a new lightweight, high velocity small caliber cartridge to allow the soldier to carry more ammunition. It was designed to be manufactured with the extensive use of aluminium and synthetic materials by state of the art Computer Numerical Control (CNC) automated machinery. The M16 is a Modular Weapon System, easily configured as an assault rifle, a carbine, a submachine gun and an open-bolt squad automatic weapon. It is easy to assemble, modify and repair using a few simple hand tools, and a flat surface to work on.\n\nAt peak production, Colt's manufacturing capacity was approximately 333,000 units per year The M16 continues to benefit from every advance in the CNC field. which allows more and more small manufacturers to mass-produce M16s and semi-automatic AR-15 type rifles. The M16's aluminum lower receivers may be forged or cast. Their receivers may also be made from titanium and a variety of other metallic alloys, composites or polymers. If necessary, the M16 can be machined from a billet of steel and fitted with wooden furniture. The M16's internal components such as the bolt carrier group and charging handle may also be made of titanium. The M16's aluminum receiver and other parts may even be 3D printed, allowing \"people with no gunsmith training to assemble a working assault rifle at home\". This makes the M16 ideal for market economy production, spread among many small manufacturers around the country, using a variety of materials and manufacturing methods; this ensures it would be nearly impossible to disrupt U.S. M16 rifle production in the case of a major conflict.\n\nAs of 2015, the United States military buys M4 Carbines for $647 (USD) per unit. Approximately 8 million M16 type rifles have been made worldwide.\n\nThe AK-47 is a select-fire, 7.62×39mm, air-cooled, long-stroke-piston gas-operated, magazine-fed rifle, with a rotating bolt. It was designed to be a simple, reliable automatic rifle that could be manufactured quickly and cheaply, using mass production methods that were state of the art in the Soviet Union during the late 1940s. The AK-47's barrel and bolt were milled out of a steel billet and hard chromed. Its receiver was originally designed to be stamped from sheet metal with a milled trunnion insert. However, there were many difficulties during the initial phase of production causing high rejection rates due to faulty receivers. Instead of halting production, a heavy forged steel machined receiver was substituted for the sheet metal receiver. This was a more costly and time consuming process, but advanced the program's development and accelerated production. The AK's furniture was simply made out of wood, which was a non-strategic material, and perfectly fits the Soviet manufacturing philosophy, where large manufacturing plants produce basic weapons in very large quantities.\n\nIn 1959, the sheet metal stamping process was perfected, simplifying production and reducing the weight of the rifle from to without magazine. Most of the AK type rifles in use today are of this lighter stamped-steel AKM variety. Over time, AK production has been simplified through the use of rivets, spot welding and by further reducing the number of machined parts.\n\nCurrent model AK's are made using modern manufacturing processes and have many component parts produced by investment casting. This method gives a detailed and accurate product with excellent metallurgical properties. They come in 7.62×39mm (AK-103), 5.45×39mm (AK-74M) and 5.56×45mm (AK-101), with cold hammer forged barrels. They are also made with the use of synthetic/plastic furniture, such as folding stocks, handguards and pistol-grips.\n\nAt peak production, Kalashnikov Concern (formerly Izhmash) can produce around 95 units per hour (about 832,000 units per year). Because of its stamped-steel design it is not possible to manufacture the AK-47 series efficiently in small plants, due to the large amount of metal stamping equipment needed for mass production. However, the milled-steel AK-47 has spawned a cottage industry of sorts and has been copied and manufactured (one gun at a time) in small shops around the world.\n\nAs of 2014, Kalashnikov Concern sells the AK-103 at a government price of $150 to $160 (USD) per unit. There are places around the world where an AK-47 type rifle can be purchased on the Black Market \"for as little as $6, or traded for a chicken or a sack of grain.\" Approximately 100 million AK-47 type rifles have been made worldwide.\n\n\"The AR-15/M16-series rifles are considered the finest human-engineered assault rifles in the world.\" The M16 is ergonomically superior to the AK-47 in most respects. It is much easier and faster to change magazines and get the M16 back into action than with the AK-47. This is due to several factors, such as perfectly located magazine release and bolt release buttons, a flared magazine well for fast magazine insertions, and the ability to simply insert the magazine into the M16 in a conventional manner, rather than the \"rock and lock\" method required with the AK-47. In addition, it is easier for an M16 user to keep the strong hand on the pistol-grip and sights on target while performing magazine changes than with the AK-47.\n\nThe M16 has a well designed safety lever located on the left side of the weapon that is easily manipulated by the user's thumb while maintaining a strong hold on the pistol-grip. With the AK-47 the safety is a large lever on the right side of the weapon that is not at all easy to manipulate. \"It is slow, uncomfortable and sometimes stiff to operate.\" For most users, the hand must come off the pistol-grip to either apply or disengage the safety. It also makes a \"loud and distinctive click\" when used. While the fire selector \"is considered by many as the main drawback of the whole AK design\", its most frequently criticized feature is its trigger mechanism. \"The Kalashnikov trigger system, conceptually derived from that of the U.S. .30 M1 Garand rifle, is all too often plagued with an objectionable, and sometimes quite painful, \"trigger slap\" and a creepy and unpredictable trigger pull.\"\n\nWith the proper mind-set, training and practice, soldiers armed with both the AK-47 and M16 are quite deadly. However, the M16's direct impingement gas operation system, straight-line recoil design and smaller caliber give it less recoil than the AK-47 and makes it easier to control in full-auto.\n\n\"The (M16's) Stoner system provides a very symmetric design that allows straight line movement of the operating components. This allows recoil forces to drive straight to the rear. Instead of connecting or other mechanical parts driving the system, high pressure gas performs this function, reducing the weight of moving parts and the rifle as a whole.\" The M16's straight-line recoil design, where the recoil spring is located in the stock directly behind the action, and serves the dual function of operating spring and recoil buffer. The stock being in line with the bore also reduces muzzle rise, especially during automatic fire. Because recoil does not significantly shift the point of aim, faster follow-up shots are possible and user fatigue is reduced. Also, current model M16 flash-suppressors also act as compensators to reduce recoil further.\n\nWith the AK-47's long-stroke piston gas system, the piston is mechanically fixed to the bolt group and moves through the entire operating cycle. The primary disadvantage to this system is the disruption of the point of aim due to the center of mass changing during the action cycle and energetic and abrupt stops at the beginning and end of bolt carrier travel. However, the AK-47's heavier weight and slower rate-of-fire do a good job of mitigating any disadvantage. In addition, newer AK-47 type rifles use a muzzle brake or compensator to reduce recoil. Some AK type rifles also have vertical foregrips to improve handling characteristics and to counter the effects of recoil.\n\n\"A longer rifle barrel has the advantages of a longer sight radius, theoretically allowing a shooter to obtain a higher degree of accuracy from the improved precision of the sights alone. A longer barrel also provides a longer path for the projectile to stabilize prior to exiting the barrel, while allotting a longer period of time for the propellant charge to act on the projectile, often resulting in higher muzzle velocities and more consistent trajectories. A long barrel inherently provides more mass available for heat transfer, increasing the heat transfer rate incurred between shots, in turn allotting less warpage in the barrel, helping to improve consistency (and ultimately accuracy).\"\n\nThe M16 has a 50.8 cm (20.0 in) barrel and a 500mm (19.75 inches) sight radius. The M16 uses an L-type flip, aperture rear sight and it is adjustable with two setting, 0 to 300 meters and 300 to 400 meters. The front sight is a post, adjustable for elevation in the field. The rear sight can be adjusted in the field for windage. The sights can be adjusted with a bullet tip and soldiers are trained to zero their own rifles. The sight picture is the same as the M14, M1 Garand, M1 Carbine and the M1917 Enfield. The M16 also has a \"Low Light Level Sight System\", which includes a front sight post with a small glass vial of (glow-in-the-dark) radioactive Tritium H3 and a larger aperture rear sight. The M16 can mount a scope on the carrying handle. With the advent of the M16A2, a new fully adjustable rear sight was added, allowing the rear sight to be dialed in for specific range settings between 300 and 800 meters and to allow windage adjustments without the need of a tool or cartridge. Current issue M16A4s and M4s have detachable carrying handles and use Picatinny rails which allow for the use of various scopes and sighting devices. The current United States Army and Air Force issue M4 Carbine comes with the M68 Close Combat Optic and Back-up Iron Sight. The United States Marine Corps uses the ACOG Rifle Combat Optic and the United States Navy uses EOTech Holographic Weapon Sight.\n\nThe AK-47 has a 41.5 cm (16.3 in) barrel and a 378mm (14.88 inches) sight radius. The AK-47 uses a notched rear tangent iron sight, it is adjustable and is calibrated in hundreds from 100 to 800 meters (100 to 1000 meters for AKM models). The front sight is a post adjustable for elevation in the field. Windage adjustment is done by the armory before issue. The \"fixed\" battle setting can be used for all ranges up to 300 meters. This \"point-blank range\" setting marked \"П\", allows the shooter to fire at close range targets without adjusting the sights. Longer range settings are intended for area suppression. These settings mirror the Mosin–Nagant and SKS rifles which the AK-47 replaced. Some AK type rifles have a front sight with a flip-up luminous dot that is calibrated at 50 meters, for improved night fighting. All current AK-47s (100 series), have a side rail for mounting a variety of scopes and sighting devices, such as the PSO-1 Optical Sniper Sight. However, their side folding stocks cannot be folded with the optics mounted.\nA brief comparison between cartridges reveals that the M16's lighter, higher-velocity 5.56×45mm cartridge has much better range and accuracy than the AK-47's heavier 7.62×39mm cartridge.\n\nThe M16 rifle is \"accurate beyond description\". Its light recoil, high-velocity and flat trajectory allow shooters to take head shots out to 300 meters. Newer M16s use the newer M855 cartridge increasing their effective range to 600 meters. They are also more accurate than their predecessors and are capable of shooting 1–3 inch groups at 100 yards. \"In Fallujah, Marines with ACOG-equipped M16A4s created a stir by taking so many head shots that until the wounds were closely examined, some observers thought the insurgents had been executed.\" The newest M855A1 EPR cartridge is even more accurate and during testing \"...has shown that, on average, 95 percent of the rounds will hit within an 8 × 8-inch target at 600 meters.\"\n\nThe AK-47's accuracy has always been considered to be \"good enough\" to hit an adult male torso out to about 300 meters. \"At 300 meters, expert shooters (firing AK-47s) at prone or at bench rest positions had difficulty putting ten consecutive rounds on target.\" Despite the Soviet engineers' best efforts and \"no matter the changes, the AK-47's accuracy could not be significantly improved; when it came to precise shooting, it was a stubbornly mediocre arm.\" Curiously, the newer stamped steel receiver AKM models are actually less accurate than their predecessors. \"There are advantages and disadvantages in both forged/milled receivers and stamped receivers. Milled/Forged Receivers are much more rigid, flexing less as the rifle is fired thus not hindering accuracy as much as stamped receivers. Stamped receivers on the other hand are a bit more rugged since it has some give in it and have less chances of having metal fatigue under heavy usage.\" As a result, the milled AK-47's are capable of shooting 3–5 inch groups at 100 yards, whereas the stamped AKM's are capable of shooting 4–6 inch groups at 100 yards. The best shooters are able to hit a man-sized target at 800 metres within five shots (firing from prone or supported position) or ten shots (standing).\n\nA brief comparison between cartridges reveals that the AK-47's heavier 7.62×39mm cartridge has much better penetration than the M16's lighter, higher-velocity 5.56×45mm cartridge. However, it also reveals that the M16's lighter, higher-velocity 5.56mm bullet has a tendency to fragment on impact causing larger wounds than the AK-47's heavier 7.62mm bullet, which does not fragment on impact.\n\nThe AK-47's heavier 7.62×39mm round has superior penetration when compared to the M16's lighter 5.56×45mm round and is better in circumstances where a soldier has to shoot through heavy foliage, walls or a common vehicle's metal body and into an opponent attempting to use these things as cover. The 7.62×39mm M43 projectile does not generally fragment in soft tissue and has an unusual tendency to remain intact even after making contact with bone. The 7.62×39mm round produces significant wounding in cases where the bullet tumbles in tissue, but produces relatively minor wounds in cases where the bullet exits before beginning to yaw. In the absence of yaw, the M43 round can pencil through tissue with relatively little injury and its wounding potential is limited to the small permanent wound channel the bullet itself makes.\n\nThe original ammunition for the M16 was the 5.56×45mm M193 round. When fired from a 20\" barrel at ranges of up to 100 meters, the thin-jacketed lead-cored round traveled fast enough (above 2900 ft/s) that the force of striking a human body would cause the round to yaw (or tumble) and fragment into about a dozen pieces of various sizes thus created wounds that were out of proportion to its caliber. These wounds were much larger than those produced by AK-47 and they were so devastating that many considered the M16 to be an inhumane weapon. As the 5.56mm round's velocity decreases, so does the number of fragments that it produces. The 5.56mm round does not normally fragment at distances beyond 200 meters or at velocities below 2500 ft/s, and its lethality becomes largely dependent on shot placement.\n\nIn March 1970, the U.S. recommended that all NATO forces adopt the 5.56×45mm cartridge. This shift represented a change in the philosophy of the military's long-held position about caliber size. By the mid 1970s, other armies were looking at M16-style weapons. A NATO standardization effort soon started and tests of various rounds were carried out starting in 1977. The U.S. offered the 5.56×45mm M193 round, but there were concerns about its penetration in the face of the wider introduction of body armor. In the end the Belgian 5.56×45mm SS109 round was chosen (STANAG 4172) in October 1980. The SS109 round was based on the U.S. cartridge but included a new stronger, heavier, 62 grain bullet design, with better long range performance and improved penetration (specifically, to consistently penetrate the side of a steel helmet at 600 meters). Due to its design and lower muzzle velocity (about 3110 ft/s) the Belgian SS109 round is considered more humane because it is less likely to fragment than the U.S. M193 round. The NATO 5.56×45mm standard ammunition produced for U.S. forces is designated M855.\n\nMost, if not all, of the 7.62×39mm ammunition found today is of the upgraded M67 variety. This variety deleted the steel insert, shifting the center of gravity rearward and allowing the projectile to destabilize (or yaw) at about , nearly earlier in tissue than the M43 round. This change also reduces penetration in ballistic gelatin to ≈ for the newer M67 round verses ≈ for the older M43 round. However, like the M43, the wounding potential of M67 is mostly limited to the small permanent wound channel the bullet itself makes, especially when the bullet yaws (tumbles).\n\nThere is now relative parity between the wounding capacity of the M67 and the current M855 5.56×45mm round. However, there have been repeated and consistent reports of the M855's inability to wound effectively (i.e. fragment) when fired from the short barreled M4 carbine (even at close ranges). The M4's 14.5\" barrel length reduces muzzle velocity to about 2900 ft/s. This reduced wounding ability is one reason that, despite the Army's transition to short-barrel M4's, the Marine Corps has decided to continue using the M16A4 with its 20″ barrel as the 5.56×45mm M855 is largely dependent upon high velocity in order to wound effectively.\n\nIn 2003, the U.S. Army contended that the lack of lethality of the 5.56×45mm was more a matter of perception than fact. With good shot placement to the head and chest, the target was usually defeated without issue. The majority of failures were the result of hitting the target in non-vital areas such as extremities. However, a minority of failures occurred in spite of multiple hits to the chest. In 2006, a study found that 20% of soldiers using the M4 Carbine wanted more lethality or stopping power. In June 2010, the United States Army announced it began shipping its new 5.56mm, lead-free, M855A1 Enhanced Performance Round to active combat zones. This upgrade is designed to maximize performance of the 5.56×45mm round, to extend range, improve accuracy, increase penetration and to consistently fragment in soft-tissue when fired from not only standard length M16s, but also the short-barreled M4 carbines. The U.S. Army was so impressed with the M855A1 EPR round that they also developed the 7.62×51mm M80A1 EPR version.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the Russians developed the AK-101 in 5.56×45mm NATO for the world export market. In addition, Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland and Yugoslavia (i.e. Serbia) have also rechambered their locally produced AK variants to 5.56mm NATO. And, Finland, Israel, South Africa and Sweden have made AK type rifles in 5.56×45mm since the 1970s. \n\nRates of fire\n\nBoth the AK-47 and the M16 are select-fire weapons capable of firing in semi-automatic and full-auto, or semi-auto and 3-round-burst for the later model M16s. However, the semi-auto and 3-round-burst capability of the M16A2 and M4 models have less combat capability than their predecessors or AK-47 type rifles. This is due to the elimination of full-auto mode of fire In addition, the burst mechanism does not recycle; if one or two rounds are fired because the trigger is not held long enough, the next pull of the trigger will not result in a three-round burst, but will result in one or two shots being fired. The M4A1 and HK416 have abandoned the 3-round-burst capability and returned to the more traditional semi-automatic and full-auto modes of fire, while the M16A4 retains the 3-round burst mode.\n\nAvailable firepower\n\nThe standard magazine capacity for both the AK-47 and M16 type rifles is 30 rounds, although lower and higher capacity magazines are available for both systems. However, the single most limiting factor in terms of firepower is the amount of ammunition that a soldier can carry. A soldier armed with an M16 can carry far more ammo than a soldier armed with an AK-47. Assuming a maximum 10 kilogram ammo-load...\n\nAdditional firepower\n\nNeither the AK-47 nor the M16 were designed to mount accessories, except of course for their respective bayonets and a simple clamp type bipod for the M16. However, with the advent of the Picatinny rail and by sheer happenstance, the M16 has proven itself to be a remarkably adaptable weapon system, capable of mounting a wide range of accessories, including grenade launchers, fore-grips, removable carry handle/rear sight assemblies, bipods, laser systems, electronic sights, night vision, tactical lights, etc. The AK-47 can also use Picatinny rail mounted accessories, although its design and smaller fore-stock make it less adaptable.\n\nIn addition, the M16 is \"the Swiss Army knife of rifles\" a modular weapon system whose components can be arranged in a variety of different configuration. For example, an M16A2 with its standard iron sights and a standard fore-stock can be easily converted, in a matter of seconds and without the use of tools to an M16A4 with Picatinny rails, optical sights and a variety of accessories. This is accomplished by simply pushing in two pins, removing the A2 upper receiver/barrel and replacing it with an A4 upper receiver/barrel. Or, an M16A4 Rifle can be converted to an M4 Carbine in a few minutes by replacing the upper receiver/barrel and using simple hand-tools to replace the fixed buttstock with a telescoping buttstock. As such, the M16 can be easily converted into different calibers and different types of weapons. The AK-47 has no such capability.\n\nToday, bayonets are rarely used in combat. However, both the AK-47 and M16 retain bayonet lugs and bayonets are still issued. Also, bayonets are still used for controlling prisoners and as a weapon of \"last resort\". In addition, some authorities have concluded that bayonets serve as useful training aids in building morale and increasing desired aggression in troops.\n\nThe M16 is 44.25 inches (1124mm) long with an M7 bayonet attached. The M7 bayonet is based on earlier designs such as the M4, M5, & M6 bayonets, all of which are direct descendants of the M3 Fighting Knife and have spear-point blade with a half sharpened secondary edge. The newer M9 bayonet has a clip-point blade with saw teeth along the spine, and can be used as a multi-purpose knife and wire-cutter when combined with its scabbard. The current USMC OKC-3S bayonet bears a resemblance to the Marines' iconic Ka-Bar fighting knife with serrations near the handle.\n\nThe AK is 40.15 inches (1020mm) long with an AKM type bayonet attached. The AK-47 has an adequate but unremarkable bayonet. However, the AKM Type I bayonet (introduced in 1959) was a revolutionary design. It has a Bowie style (clip-point) blade with sawteeth along the spine, and can be used as a multi-purpose knife and wire-cutter when combined with its steel scabbard. This design was copied by other nations and formed the basis of the US M9 bayonet. The AK-74 bayonet (introduced in 1983) represents a further refinement of the AKM bayonet. \"It introduced a radical blade cross-section, that has a flat milled on one side near the edge and a corresponding flat milled on the opposite side near the false edge. The blade has a new spear point and an improved one-piece molded plastic grip making it a more effective fighting knife. It also has saw-teeth on the false edge and the usual hole for use as a wire-cutter. Some Chinese AK type rifles such as the Type 56 include an integral folding spike bayonet, similar to the SKS rifle.\n\nThe AK-47 has always enjoyed a reputation for rugged reliability and has a malfunction rate of one per 1000 rounds fired. It uses a long-stroke gas system, where the gas is sent from the barrel to push a piston attached to the bolt carrier, thus operating the action. The gas tube is fairly large and is visible above the barrel with ports or vents to allow the excess \"dirty\" gas to escape without affecting the action. The AK-47 is often built with generous clearances, allowing it to function easily in a dirty environment with little or no maintenance. This makes it reliable but less accurate.\n\nThe M16 has always had a reputation for poor reliability and has a malfunction rate of two per 1000 rounds fired. The M16 uses a unique gas powered operating system. \"This gas operating system works by passing high pressure propellant gasses tapped from the barrel down a tube and into the carrier group within the upper receiver, and is commonly but incorrectly referred to as a \"direct impingement gas system\". The gas expands within a donut shaped gas cylinder within the carrier. Because the bolt is prevented from moving forward by the barrel, the carrier is driven to the rear by the expanding gasses and thus converts the energy of the gas to movement of the rifle’s parts. The bolt bears a piston head and the cavity in the bolt carrier is the piston sleeve. It is more correct to call it an \"internal piston\" system.\" This design is much lighter and more compact than a gas-piston design. However, this design requires that combustion byproducts from the discharged cartridge be blown into the receiver as well. This accumulating carbon and vaporized metal build-up within the receiver and bolt-carrier negatively affects reliability and necessitates more intensive maintenance on the part of the individual soldier. The DI operation increases the amount of heat that is deposited in the receiver while firing the M16 and causes essential lubricant to be \"burned off\". This requires frequent and generous applications of appropriate lubricant. Lack of proper lubrication is the most common source of weapon stoppages or jams.\n\nThe original M16 fared poorly in the jungles of Vietnam and was infamous for reliability problems in the harsh environment. As a result, it became the target of a Congressional investigation. The investigation found that:\n\nWhen these issues were addressed and corrected by the M16A1, the reliability problems decreased greatly. According to a 1968 Department of Army report, the M16A1 rifle achieved widespread acceptance by U.S. troops in Vietnam. \"Most men armed with the M16 in Vietnam rated this rifle's performance high, however, many men entertained some misgivings about the M16's reliability. When asked what weapon they preferred to carry in combat, 85 percent indicated that they wanted either the M16 or its submachine gun version, the XM177E2. (The M14 was preferred by 15 percent, while less than one percent wished to carry either the Stoner rifle, the AK-47, the carbine or a pistol.)\" In March 1970, the \"President’s Blue Ribbon Defense Panel\" concluded that the issuance of the M16 saved the lives of 20,000 U.S. servicemen during the Vietnam War, who would have otherwise died had the M14 remained in service. However the M16 rifle's reputation continues to suffer.\n\nAfter the introduction of the M4 Carbine, it was found that the shorter barrel length of 14.5 inches also has a negative effect on reliability, as the gas port is located closer to the chamber than the gas port of the standard length M16 rifle: 7.5 inches instead of the 13 inches. This affects the M4’s timing and increases the amount of stress and heat on the critical components, thereby reducing reliability.<ref name=\"armalite.com\"/ In a 2002 assessment the USMC found that the M4 malfunctioned three times more often than the M16A4 (the M4 failed 186 times for 69,000 rounds fired, while the M16A4 failed 61 times). Thereafter, the Army and Colt worked to make modifications to the M4s and M16A4s in order to address the problems found.\n\nIn tests conducted in 2005 and 2006 the Army found that on average, the new M4s and M16s fired approximately 5,000 rounds between stoppages. In 2010, U.S. Marines operating in Afghanistan reported no reliability problems with their M16 rifles and M4 carbines. \"This is more so given the account of Chief Warrant Officer Joshua S. Smith, the Marine responsible for weapons training and performance in the Third Battalion, Sixth Marines, which is engaged in daily fighting in Marja. 'We've had nil in the way of problems; we've had no issues,' he said of the M-4s and M-16s. The battalion has about 350 M-16s and 700 M-4s, he said.\"\n\nThe newest version of the M16 in U.S. service is the HK416 (a.k.a. the M27 Infantry Automatic Rifle) which uses a proprietary gas system derived from the HK G36, replacing the direct impingement gas system used by the standard M16/M4. The HK system uses a short-stroke gas piston driving an operating rod to force the bolt carrier to the rear. This design prevents combustion gases from entering the weapon's interior, a shortcoming with direct impingement systems. The reduction in heat and fouling of the bolt carrier group increases the reliability of the weapon and extends the interval between stoppages. The short-stroke gas piston require less maintenance and cleaning. It reduces operator cleaning time and stress on critical components. \"Improving the service interval requirements provides a major benefit to soldiers that may not have the ability or opportunity to thoroughly clean their rifle. Also, the design of the external gas piston system is less susceptible to build up of other contaminants in extreme environments.\" During factory tests the HK416 fired 10,000 rounds in full-auto without malfunctioning.\n\n\"Magazines are one of the most important elements of any firearm design. They are responsible for the feeding portion of the cycle of operation. Even in the most proven arm that reliably extracts and ejects, the magazine has to be 100-percent reliable for it to consistently feed properly.\"\n\nThe AK-47’s 30-round magazines have a pronounced curve that allows them to smoothly feed ammunition into the chamber. Their heavy steel construction combined with \"feed-lips\" (the surfaces at the top of the magazine that control the angle at which the cartridge enters the chamber) machined from a single steel billet makes them highly resistant to damage. These magazines are so strong that \"Soldiers have been known to use their mags as hammers, and even bottle openers.\" This makes the AK-47 magazine more reliable, although heavier than U.S. and NATO magazines. The early slab-sided steel AK-47 magazines weigh empty. The later steel AKM magazines had lighter sheet-metal bodies with prominent reinforcing ribs weighing empty. The current issue steel-reinforced plastic magazines are even lighter, weighing empty. Early steel AK-47 magazines are 9.75 inches long, and the later ribbed steel AKM and newer plastic magazines are about an inch shorter.\n\nThe M16's magazine was meant to be a lightweight, disposable item. As such, it is made of pressed/stamped aluminum and was not designed to be durable. Therefore, it is easier to damage than an AK-47 magazine and the feed lips are proportionally weaker when compared to the AK-47. The M16 originally used a 20-round magazine which was later replaced by a bent 30-round design. As a result, the magazine follower tends to rock or tilt, causing malfunctions. Many non-U.S. and commercial magazines have been developed to effectively mitigate these shortcomings (e.g., H&K's all-stainless-steel magazine, Magpul's polymer P-MAG, etc.). Standard USGI aluminum 30-round M16 magazines weigh empty and are 7.1 inches long. The newer plastic magazines are about a half inch longer.\n\nIn 2009, the U.S. Military began fielding an \"improved magazine\" identified by a tan-colored follower. \"The new follower incorporates an extended rear leg and modified bullet protrusion for improved round stacking and orientation. The self-leveling/anti-tilt follower minimizes jamming while a wider spring coil profile creates even force distribution. The performance gains have not added weight or cost to the magazines.\"\n\nIn July 2016, the U.S. Army introduced the new Enhanced Performance Magazine. These new magazines have tan bodies and blue followers. \"Unlike previous magazines, the EPM uses a new, modified magazine body (and therefore not interchangeable, hence the different color) which presents the rounds at a more favorable angle to the rifle’s feedway, improving reliability and, importantly, preventing the hardened steel tips of new 5.56mm M855A1 Enhanced Performance Rounds from contacting the aluminum feed ramp section on M4 type rifles.\" This allows for a dramatic 300% increase in the number of rounds fired between stoppages.\n\nAK-47 type rifles are made in dozens of countries, with \"quality ranging from finely engineered weapons to pieces of questionable workmanship.\" As a result, the AK-47 has a service/system life of approximately 6,000, to 10,000, to 15,000 rounds. The AK-47 was designed to be a cheap, simple, easy to manufacture assault rifle, perfectly matching Soviet military doctrine that treats equipment and weapons as disposable items. As units are often deployed without adequate logistical support and dependent on \"battlefield cannibalization\" for resupply, it is actually more cost-effective to replace rather than repair weapons.\n\nBoth the AK-47 and the M16 have small parts and springs that need to be replaced every few thousand rounds. However...\"Every time (an AK) is disassembled beyond the field stripping stage, it will take some time for some parts to regain their fit, some parts may tend to shake loose and fall out when firing the weapon. Some parts of the AK-47 line are riveted together. Repairing these can be quite a hassle, since the end of the rivet has to be ground off and a new one set after the part is replaced.\"\n\nM16 type rifles are made by dozens of manufactures around the world, to the highest standards \"the goal of which is to ensure that products designed for military use meet the necessary requirements with regard to quality, durability, ruggedness, commonality, interchangeability, total cost of ownership, logistics and other military and defense-related objectives.\" The M16's barrel life is approximately 15,000 rounds for standard issue M16A4s and M4s. Cold hammer forged steel barrels such as those used on the HK416 have service life of 20,000 to 50,000 rounds depending on the intensity of use. A badly worn M16 barrel will cause the bullets to tumble in flight. However, the M16’s upper receiver/barrel may be swapped out in a matter of seconds, without the use of tools, simply by pushing out two pins. The M16 was designed to be a serviceable assault rifle, perfectly matching American military doctrine where units are resupplied on a continuous basis, and are expected to perform most of their own maintenance and repairs in the field. As such, American units are well supplied and are quickly provided with whatever spare-parts they need by their logistical support systems.\n\nAn M16 rifle that has been declared non-serviceable may be sent to a Small Arms Repair Facility, where it is overhauled, upgraded and returned to service. The M16 rifle may be recycled almost infinitely, as any individual part can be easily replaced until none of the original parts remain.\n\n\"The AK-74 assault rifle was a Soviet answer to the US M16.\" The Russians realized that the M16 had better range and accuracy over the AKM, and that its lighter cartridge allows soldiers to carry more ammunition. Therefore, in 1967, the USSR issued an official requirement to replace the AKM and the 7.62×39mm cartridge. They soon began to develop the AK-74 and the 5.45×39mm cartridge. AK-74 production began in 1974, and it was unveiled in 1977, when it was carried by Soviet parachute troops during the annual Red Square parade. It would soon replace the AKM and become the standard Soviet infantry rifle. In 1979, the AK-74 saw combat for the first time in Afghanistan.\n\nThe AK-74 is best described as a modified version of the 7.62×39mm AKM rifle. These modifications were primarily the result of converting the rifle to the 5.45×39mm cartridge, some early models are reported to have been rebarreled AKMs. The AK-74 and AKM share 9 assemblies and 52 parts (36% & 53% parts commonality, respectively).\n\nThe 5.45×39mm cartridge is much lighter than the 7.62×39mm round that it replaced, allowing soldiers to carry 1.5 times more ammunition. The AK-74 also offers improved range and accuracy over the AKM. However, the AK-74s range and accuracy is still \"inferior to most Western weapons,\" including current issue M16 type rifles.\n\nThe 5.45 mm bullet tumbles in soft tissue producing temporary cavities at a depth of 10 cm (3.9 in) and 35 cm (13.8 in). This effect is similar to, but more rapid than with 7.62×39mm cartridge. The 5.45mm round offers better penetration over the U.S. round. However, unlike its counterpart, the 5.45mm round \"does not deform or fragment when striking soft tissues.\" Nevertheless, during the Afghan war the Mujahedeen called the 5.45×39mm round the \"Poison Bullet\" due to the severe wounds it produced to extremities and the resulting need to amputate.\n\nThe following Summary has been taken directly from the\n\"Rifle Evaluation Study\", United States Army, Combat Development Command, ADA046961, 20 Dec 1962. Additional information can be found in \"Rifle Evaluation Study\", United States Army, Infantry Combat Developments Agency, ADA050268, 10 Dec 1962\".\n\nNote: This is the first time that the United States Army compared the AR-15/M16 and the AK-47.\n\nNight firing\n\nThe AR-15 was not equipped with any flash suppressor during the conduct of this test. Also, there was only a small amount of ammunition available for use in the AK-47. As a result, the night firing capability of both the AR-15 and AK-47 were not properly tested. In a subsequent test at Fort Benning an AR-15 equipped with a flash suppressor was tested against both the M14 and the AK-47. The AK-47 was not equipped with a flash suppressor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9337129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9337129", "title": "Dictionary of the Irish Language", "text": "Dictionary of the Irish Language\n\nDictionary of the Irish Language: Based Mainly on Old and Middle Irish Materials (also called \"the DIL\"), published by the Royal Irish Academy, is the definitive dictionary of the origins of the Irish language, specifically the Old Irish and Middle Irish stages; the modern language is not included. The original idea for a comprehensive dictionary of early Irish was conceived in 1852 by the two preeminent Irish linguists of the time, John O'Donovan and Eugene O'Curry; however, it was more than sixty years until the first fascicle (the letter D as far as the word , compiled by Carl J. S. Marstrander) was published in 1913. It was more than sixty years again until the final fascicle (only one page long and consisting of words beginning with H) was published in 1976 under the editorship of E. G. Quin.\n\nThe full dictionary comprises about 2500 pages, but a compact edition (four original pages photoreduced onto one page) was published in 1983 (), and the decision was made to discontinue printing the full-size edition.\n\nA web site has been established to permit scholars to submit annotations for the DIL.\n\nAs a result of a project started in 2003, The online edition, known as the electronic Dictionary of the Irish Language (or eDIL), was launched in the Royal Irish Academy on the 27 June 2007. The launch was organised by the Foclóir na Nua-Ghaeilge team in the Academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "32688000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32688000", "title": "Edinburgh Encyclopædia", "text": "Edinburgh Encyclopædia\n\nThe Edinburgh Encyclopædia was an encyclopaedia in 18 volumes, printed and published by William Blackwood and edited by David Brewster between 1808 and 1830. In competition with the Edinburgh-published \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the \"Edinburgh Encyclopædia\" is generally considered to be strongest on scientific topics, where many of the articles were written by the editor.\n\nThe \"Edinburgh Encyclopædia\" was originally planned to encompassed 12 volumes, but by the time the final volume was published, in 1830, it counted 18 volumes. Some subjects, such as the polarization of light and electromagnetism hadn't even been heard of when the project began, and yet the Encyclopedia had articles on them. The electromagnetism article was even contributed by Hans Christian Ørsted, the founder of modern electromagnetic studies. It also included information on contemporary events such as Christopher Hansteen's 1829 expedition to Siberia.\n\nIn 1815 William Elford Leach published the first bibliography of entomology in Brewster's \"Edinburgh Encyclopædia\" (see Timeline of entomology – 1800–1850).\n\nJoseph Parker of Philadelphia and Whiting & Watson of New York City printed American editions, both in 1832.\n\nA list of major contributors, with indications of their articles, was published in 1830.\n\nOther contributors – \"Gentlemen Eminent in Science and Literature\" – included Adam Anderson, Charles Babbage, Thomas Carlyle, Robert Gordon, Robert Edmond Grant, John Leslie, Henry Liston, John Gibson Lockhart and Thomas Telford.\n\nThe following full set of the Scottish printing may be read online here: It does not include any plates\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40359099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40359099", "title": "FLUIDEX", "text": "FLUIDEX\n\nFLUIDEX is an online bibliographic database that covers fluids behavior, applications, and engineering in civil engineering and process engineering. It is published by Elsevier.\n\nIndexing includes more than 900,000 past and current records pertaining to relevant trade magazines and scientific journals from 1966–present. Further topical coverage includes research and technology in fluid dynamics, separation processes, offshore platform issues, and new hydraulic and pneumatic equipment applications and operations. Abstracts summarize 98% of all documents.\n\nGlobal literature coverage includes over 400 trade and peer reviewed publications. Additionally, archives contain several hundred cataloged trade, peer reviewed, and book titiles. The database is annually updated with more than 40,000 abstracts and citations. OVID and Dialog are online access points. This database is also published in a printed paper format. Hence, the print counterparts are \"Fluid Abstracts: Process Engineering\" (), and \"Fluid Abstracts: Civil engineering\" ().\n\n"}
{"id": "261935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261935", "title": "Freddie Blassie", "text": "Freddie Blassie\n\nFrederick Kenneth Blassie (February 8, 1918 – June 2, 2003), better known as \"Classy\" Freddie Blassie, was an American professional wrestling villain and manager born in St. Louis, Missouri. Renowned as \"The Fashion Plate of Professional Wrestling\", He was also a one-time NWA Georgia Heavyweight Champion and a one-time NWA Florida Heavyweight Champion.\n\nBlassie's parents, Jacob and Anna (née Sind), immigrated to the United States from Germany prior to the start of World War I, settling in St. Louis. Fred was an only child, which he claimed was because he weighed 15 pounds when he was born and his mother didn't want to go through childbirth again. His father was abusive and an alcoholic, and Fred often had to take refuge with his grandparents whenever Jacob would beat his mother. His parents continually separated, then reunited. At the age of 13, after his father hit his mother again, Fred threatened to attack his father with a baseball bat, but didn't do it and stayed with his aunt for six months until his mother asked him to return home. Throughout his life, Fred didn't touch alcohol after seeing what kind of person it turned his father into.\n\nAs a teenager, Blassie went to McKinley High School; after graduating he got a job at a meatpacking plant, which his family hoped he would turn into a lucrative meat cutting job with the local trade union. However, he started boxing at Seward Community Center and won the heavyweight championship. He was more interested in wrestling, though, and would sneak into the matches whenever he could. He would often go to matches at Harry Cook's Gym to watch the hookers of the day lock up. As they began to recognize him, the wrestlers would teach him a hold here and there. His first wrestling match was actually a shoot fight which he accepted in order to impress a girl he brought to the show. Later, he began to get regular work wrestling at local carnivals. His cousin John Frank Holaus would often referee his matches.\n\nBlassie came up with his famous \"pencil-neck geek\" catchphrase early in his career to describe a fellow carnival performer known as \"The Geek\", who bit the heads off chickens and snakes. Blassie described this geek as having a neck like a stack of dimes, and that he was a real pencil-neck geek.\n\nHe soon got work from more established promoters: Tom Packs in St. Louis and George Simpson in Kansas City. The more he worked in the business, the more the veterans were willing to let him learn about the wrestling business.\n\nAfter the US entered World War II, Blassie enlisted in the Navy and served in the Pacific Theater for 42 months. The war was a trying time for his family back home because of his parents' German heritage. They were often accused of being unpatriotic. He married a Jewish girl named Nettie Needles in California while on shore leave. He achieved the rank of Petty Officer Second Class before he was discharged.\n\nUpon Blassie's return from the war, he was billed as \"Sailor\" Fred Blassie to capitalize on the wave of war-time patriotism sweeping the country, but that gimmick was unsuccessful. He worked for Jack Pfefer, who he claimed would only employ people who looked like sideshow freaks at his shows, and whose wrestlers included Tor Johnson, who made movies with director Ed Wood, and Lillian Ellison, the Fabulous Moolah. During this time, he went to New York City to work for promoter Jess McMahon \n\nIn 1952, Blassie moved to Los Angeles to work for Jules Strongbow. He grew to love California, and frequently returned there throughout his career to wrestle. He teamed with Billy McDaniel as the McDaniel Brothers, but when they went east, they were known as the Blassie Brothers.\n\nIn 1953, he worked in the Atlanta, territory for Paul Jones (the wrestler of the 1930s, not the wrestler of the 1980s). While there, he won the NWA Georgia Southern Heavyweight Championship, the holder of which was generally first in line to challenge the NWA World Heavyweight Champion whenever he passed through the territory. It was also during this period of his career when he dropped his babyface gimmick and became a full-fledged heel. The fans consistently booed him because he was considered a \"Yankee\". He also bleached his hair at this time, as many of the other stars of the era did, such as Gorgeous George, Johnny Valentine, and \"Nature Boy\" Buddy Rogers. He was often billed as \"The Vampire\" during this time for biting his opponents and filing his teeth during interviews and promos.\n\nIn 1960, Blassie returned to Strongbow's promotion in Los Angeles where he was a big star for the World Wrestling Association (WWA) of southern California, drawing many fans to the Olympic Auditorium in Los Angeles. He was so hated there that uniformed police officers were regularly brought in to protect him as he made his way to and from the ring. He had main event-level feuds against stars such as The Destroyer.\n\nOn June 12, 1961, Blassie defeated the \"Flying Frenchman\" Édouard Carpentier in a best-of-three-falls match for his first WWA Championship title. On July 7, Blassie successfully defended his title against the former NWA Heavyweight Champion Lou Thesz. During that same title reign, in a match against Lord James Blears a fan threw acid on his back, and he had to return immediately to the locker room to wash it off.\n\nBlassie claims that he made Regis Philbin into the celebrity he is today. When Philbin had a late-night weekend talk show in San Diego, Blassie would routinely show up to yell at the audience, throw furniture, and threaten Philbin. In later years, Blassie also appeared on \"The Mike Douglas Show\" when Philbin was a guest host.\n\nAfter regaining the WWA Championship from Rikidōzan, Blassie lost the title two days later to the \"Masked Destroyer\" Dick Beyer. In 1963, Bearcat Wright defeated him to become champion, and it was quite a statement during the fight for civil rights that an African-American had won such a title. In 1964, Dick the Bruiser defeated Blassie to become champion, and Blassie headed east to work for the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF).\n\nBlassie returned to the WWA in 1968 just as promoter Mike LeBell decided to rejoin the NWA. In the early 1970s, Blassie \"turned face\", or became a good guy, since so many fans were cheering his famous antics. While there, he feuded with Soulman Rocky Johnson, The Sheik, and \"The Golden Greek\" John Tolos. One of his most famous feuds took place in southern California in 1971, against Tolos. The final match of their series took place in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, and set new California records for both attendance and gate.\n\nIn 1962, Blassie had a feud with Japanese wrestling icon Rikidōzan that established his reputation in Japan. After Blassie lost the WWA World Heavyweight Championship to Rikidōzan in Los Angeles, the two had a rematch on live Japanese television. Many of the viewers were horrified by Blassie's treatment of their hero. One of Blassie's gimmicks was to file his teeth, and draw blood from his opponents by biting their foreheads. The sight of the Japanese legend covered in his own blood gave several viewers heart attacks, and some reportedly even died.\n\nBlassie divorced his wife after leaving on Christmas to wrestle in Knoxville. He claims he isn't sure if she knew of his philandering ways, but Blassie had repeatedly bragged of his infidelity to his ex-wife Nettie. As a result, of his three children Gary, Cheryl, and Ron, only Ron ever spoke to Blassie on a regular basis.\n\nWhile touring Japan in 1965, Blassie met the woman who would later become his third wife, Miyako Morozumi, at a train station. However, later that year Blassie suffered from kidney stones and had surgery to remove them. While recuperating the following year, he sold cars and married a second time to a woman whose name Blassie claimed not to remember.\n\nIn 1968, Blassie returned to Japan and was reunited with Miyako. When he asked for her parents' blessing, they were unsure of Blassie because of his reputation with Rikidōzan and because he was 28 years older than she. However, he eventually got their blessing and took her home to the United States. They were married on September 30, 1968.\n\nIn 1964, Blassie feuded with Bruno Sammartino and Bobo Brazil. Blassie came into the WWWF with his own world title belt, claiming to be the Pacific World Champion, and was coming to Sammartino's \"back yard\" to unify the world title. The series began at Roosevelt Stadium, Jersey City, New Jersey in 1964, with Blassie winning on a technicality, but not a pin. The rematches were held at Madison Square Garden in New York, with Sammartino winning out. Behind the scenes, Blassie befriended Gorilla Monsoon. He returned to the company in 1971 to challenge Pedro Morales for the WWWF Championship. During this stint with the company, Blassie was managed by his future nemesis, \"Captain\" Lou Albano.\n\nBlassie retired from active wrestling in 1974, due to a California law that prohibited anyone over 55 from getting a wrestling license. Afterwards he became a manager in the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) and its subsequent incarnation the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). He performed for that promotion until his full retirement from professional wrestling in 1986. Blassie, Lou Albano, and The Grand Wizard were named \"The Three Wise Men of the East\", as the top three heel managers in the company.\n\nAmong the men he managed were Nikolai Volkoff, Blackjack Mulligan, High Chief Peter Maivia, \"The Crippler\" Ray Stevens, Adrian Adonis, Jesse Ventura, Dick Murdoch, The Iron Sheik, Swede Hanson, Killer Khan, George 'The Animal' Steele, Professor Tanaka, Mr. Fuji, Victor Rivera, Kamala, Hercules Hernandez, and Hulk Hogan. Blassie also managed Muhammad Ali in his boxer vs. wrestler match in 1976 against Antonio Inoki. Blassie also publicly represented Ali for media events and interviews for a period in the mid-1970s.\n\nOne of Blassie's most famous proteges was The Iron Sheik. Blassie led Shiek to the WWF World Heavyweight Championship over Bob Backlund on December 26, 1983 in Madison Square Garden. After Sheik lost the belt to Blassie's former managed wrestler Hulk Hogan, Blassie managed Sheik in various rematches around the country throughout the first half of 1984, culminating into another major televised rematch on December 28, 1984 once again in Madison Square Garden. In this match Hogan was once again victorious. After managing Sheik through a brief feud with Andre the Giant, he also became the manager of Nikolai Volkoff, with Sheik and Volkoff later becoming a tag team. Blassie would gain even more gold when Volkoff and Sheik defeated The US Express for the WWF Tag Team Championship at the first ever Wrestlemania. Blassie got involved when he threw his cane into the ring, with Sheik and Volkoff using it to their advantage to gain the victory. When Gene Okerlund confronted Blassie in an interview after the match, Blassie went, \"what cane, I didn't have no cane!\"\n\nBlassie would continue to manage Sheik and Volkoff even after they lost the tag team titles. In the Summer of 1985 Blassie would start up a house show feud with former friend Lou Albano, culminating into a few matches, including a steel cage match at the Meadowlands in July 1985. Other than these handful of matches, Blassie mostly stayed out of the ring, sticking to managing from ringside. Blassie unsuccessfully campaigned along with the other managers to manage \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage when Savage first entered the WWF in June 1985. Blassie would continue to interfere from ringside in matches, especially during Volkoff's feud with Corporal Kirchner. Blassie's interference at Wrestlemania 2 cost Volkoff his match with Kirchner, when the cane was grabbed by Kirchner instead of Volkoff.\n\nIn the Summer of 1986, Blassie started to slowly phase himself out of the WWF and into retirement. On an episode of \"WWF Championship Wrestling\", Blassie barged into the announcer booth to proclaim that he had sold half of the contracts of Sheik and Volkoff to a mysterious benefactor for a large sum of money. This benefactor was later revealed to be Slick. Blassie appeared alongside with Slick to co-manage Sheik and Volkoff for a few television appearances before finally bowing out in November 1986, with Albano, the final member of the Three Wise Men, retiring a few weeks later.\n\nBecause of his close relationship with Vince McMahon, Sr. and his family, Blassie remained on the WWF roster until the day he died. He would sporadically return to make brief appearances following his retirement in 1986, mostly in produced video packages hyping the \"new generation\" of wrestling. He was given a commentary tryout in 1986 and 1987 for \"WWF Wrestling Challenge\", calling a few matches with Gorilla Monsoon. He briefly turned face in 1989, making an appearance on \"Prime Time Wrestling\" angry with Bobby Heenan over money Heenan hadn't paid him back. Then he returned again in 1990 briefly to do color commentary for \"Prime Time\" in April with Vince McMahon, as an emergency fill-in after Tony Schiavone quit, playing a heel once again.\n\nBlassie was inducted into the WWF Hall of Fame in 1994. In 2000, Blassie made an appearance at the Royal Rumble as a judge in the Miss Rumble 2000 Swimsuit contest. In 2001, Blassie appeared in a special \"Raw is War\" segment for the Invasion storyline, wherein he exhorts a gathering of WWF wrestlers to stand tall against The Alliance – and later gets mocked by Alliance leaders Shane and Stephanie McMahon (because of this, Blassie is the only man to have worked with all 4 McMahon family promoters). Blassie also appeared in a segment at the Vengeance pay-per-view event in December 2001, where an \"undisputed\" champion would be crowned. His final wrestling appearance was May 12, 2003 in Philadelphia on \"Monday Night Raw\", three weeks before his death. The segment featured Blassie, his wife, and Raw GM Eric Bischoff, who was about to allow 3 Minute Warning to attack him, until Austin and the Dudley Boyz stepped in. His final words on WWE television were \"D-Von, Get the table\", to a monstrous applause.\n\nHis book, Listen You Pencil Neck Geeks, was released on May 13, 2003.\n\nOn June 2, 2003, Blassie died of heart and kidney failure at the age of 85.\n\nIn 1975, Blassie recorded voiceovers for the songs \"Blassie, King of Men\" and \"Pencil Neck Geek\", which were performed by Johnny Legend, featuring Billy Zoom on guitar, Jay Phillips on guitar, Lon Osgood on bass and Steve Clark on drums. They received acclaim on the Dr. Demento Radio Show, and the latter song was featured on several albums, including Dr. Demento's 20th Anniversary Collection, \"The Very Best Of Dr. Demento\", and \"Dr. Demento Presents the Greatest Novelty CDs of All Time\". In 1983, Rhino Records released a 14-track album by Blassie, titled \"I Bite the Songs\".\n\nBlassie appeared in an episode of \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\" that featured a new dance craze called The Twizzle. Rose Marie's character Sally Rogers brought him on at the end of the episode claiming to have discovered another new dance sensation. In the demonstration of the dance Blassie picked up Rob Petrie and twirled him over his head.\n\nAndy Kaufman was enamored of Freddie Blassie and constantly hounded him to get him a spot on the wrestling card. Eventually, a movie of the two was filmed in 1982 at a Sambo's in Los Angeles called \"My Breakfast with Blassie\". (The film was referenced by American rock band R.E.M. in their 1992 song about Kaufman, \"Man on the Moon\".)\n\n\"Classy\" Freddie Blassie appeared in a live-action segment of the cartoon \"Hulk Hogan's Rock 'n' Wrestling.\" In the segment he is interviewed by \"Mean\" Gene Okerlund when the two are interrupted by a little old lady in a housekeeper outfit that Blassie claims to be his own mother.\n\n\"Classy\" Freddie Blassie also made a cameo appearance as himself, along with \"Wrestling's Living Legend\" Bruno Sammartino, and Ric Flair in the 1986 film \"Body Slam\" starring Dirk Benedict, \"Captain\" Lou Albano, and \"Rowdy\" Roddy Piper.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the wrestler starred in a documentary directed by Jeff Krulik, titled \"Mr. Blassie Goes To Washington\". In it, Blassie is picked up at the Washington, D.C., airport by a limo full of young women, escorted around the nation's capital, gives his opinions and confronts tourists.When meeting someone, he would ask where they were from, and no matter their response, he would reply with, \"Oh, that's God's country!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41944305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41944305", "title": "Gretchen Sibley", "text": "Gretchen Sibley\n\nGretchen Sibley (May 14, 1914 – November 30, 2013) was a longtime science educator, creator of the docent program at the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History, and first executive director of the California State Science Fair.\n\nGretchen Sibley was raised in Los Angeles. She remembered visiting museums as a child with her parents, who were interested in art. She trained as a teacher, and taught at a junior high school in Los Angeles for three years, while working on an advanced degree in zoology at the University of Southern California. She wrote a thesis, \"A Comparative Study of the Histological Structure of Oral Glands on Certain Mammals,\" to earn her master's degree in 1946.\n\nAs a teacher she had borrowed specimens from the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History, and became familiar with the staff through that activity. Sibley started working for the Los Angeles County Museum of History in 1946 as a science instructor, the museum's first education specialist. Her work involved organizing programs for school groups and schoolteachers, including weekend field trips, tours, and public lectures.\n\nSibley organized a science fair for Los Angeles students at the museum in 1941. Building from that experience, and as treasurer of the California Science Teachers' Association, she was part of the founding of the California State Science Fair in 1952, as she chaired the first steering committee through incorporation, then served as the Executive Director for the Fair's first decade.\n\nSibley wrote several natural history books for young readers, including \"La Brea Story\" (1968), \"La Brea Fossils\" (1970). As director of the museum's Natural Science Workshop, she worked directly with thousands of promising high school students over the years, preparing them for careers in science.\n\nSibley was active with the Southern California Academy of Sciences from the early 1960s, and often the only woman on their executive board; she prepared symposium proceedings for the Academy, and was managing editor of their \"Bulletin\". In 1962, she was named an SCAS Fellow for her work with the gifted high school students.\n\nAn adventuresome traveler, she collected material specimens and took photographs in thirty countries and across the United States, for the museum and for educational films.\n\nSibley retired from her museum position as director of docent programs in 1973, but continued to be active at the museum as \"museum education specialist emeritus\" and honorary archivist. In retirement, despite failing eyesight, she catalogued the museum archives as a volunteer, and was named Los Angeles County Volunteer of the Year in 1996 for her efforts. At the museum's 75th anniversary celebration in 1988, Sibley presented a slideshow and lecture about the history of the museum. In 2012, she was honored at the fiftieth anniversary of the museum's docent program. She also wrote a history of the Southern California Academy of Sciences on the occasion of their centennial in 1991.\n\nIn her later years, Sibley lived at a senior care center in Lake Forest. She hired a chauffeur and bought adaptive equipment to allow her to continue her museum projects once a week. She also served as president of the Visually Impaired Club at Leisure World.\n\nGretchen Sibley died in 2013, age 99.\n\nMiss Sibley appears to be the namesake of a minor character in Thomas Heric's 2010 science fiction novel \"The Healers\", in which a \"Marjorie Sibley\" works at a county museum in Southern California, as curator of marine life, and encourages the main character Wesley to enter the annual science fair.\n\nAlumni from Sibley's era as director of the Natural Science Workshop included entomologist Charles L. Hogue and Tee Guidotti, retired professor of occupational and environmental medicine at George Washington University.\n"}
{"id": "39779730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39779730", "title": "Grovey v. Townsend", "text": "Grovey v. Townsend\n\nGrovey v. Townsend, 295 U.S. 45 (1935), was a United States Supreme Court decision that held a reformulation of Texas' white primaries system to be constitutional. The case was the third in a series of Court decisions known as the \"Texas primary cases\".\n\nIn \"Nixon v. Herndon\" (1927), Nixon sued for damages under federal civil rights laws after being denied a ballot in a Democratic party primary election on the basis of race. The Court found in his favor on the basis of the Fourteenth Amendment, which guarantees equal protection under the law, while not discussing his Fifteenth Amendment claim. After Texas amended its statute to authorize the political party's state executive committee to set voting qualifications, Nixon sued again; in \"Nixon v. Condon\" (1932), the Court again found in his favor on the basis of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe Democratic Party of Texas state convention then adopted a rule banning black voting in primary elections. R. R. Grovey, a black Texas resident, sued Townsend, a county clerk enforcing the rule, for violation of Grovey's civil rights under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. The Court unanimously upheld the party's rule as constitutional, distinguishing the discrimination by a private organization from that of the state in the previous primary cases. However, \"Grovey\" would be overturned nine years later in \"Smith v. Allwright\" (1944), another of the Texas primary cases.\n"}
{"id": "1750241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750241", "title": "Guy Lowell", "text": "Guy Lowell\n\nGuy Lowell (August 6, 1870 – February 4, 1927), was an American architect and landscape architect.\n\nBorn in Boston, Lowell was the son of Mary Walcott (Goodrich) and Edward Jackson Lowell, and a member of Boston's well-known Lowell family. He graduated from Noble's Classical School (later Noble and Greenough School) in 1888 and from Harvard College in 1892, and received his degree in architecture from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1894. He then studied landscape and horticulture at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and architectural history and landscape architecture in the atelier of Jean-Louis Pascal at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris, with diplomé in 1899. In the middle of these studies he married Henrietta Sargent, the daughter of the director of Harvard's Arnold Arboretum, Charles S. Sargent of Brookline, Massachusetts, on May 17, 1898.\n\nReturning to the United States, Lowell opened his own practice in Boston in 1899 and was successful immediately. By 1906, he had opened a branch office in New York and later split each week between New York and Boston. His commissions included large public, academic, and commercial buildings, as well as many distinctive residences, country estates, and formal gardens. He was the architect and landscape architect for the first Charles River dam, completed in 1910, which transformed the tidal river into the Charles River Basin. He designed five structures on the dam: the Upper and Lower Lock Gate Houses, the Stable, the Boat House, and an open pavilion. As part of the dam's construction, Frederick Law Olmsted's Charlesbank was extended from Charles Circle to the Harvard Bridge, and Lowell was responsible for the landscape design of the Boston Embankment, now universally known as the Esplanade. Lowell is perhaps most recognized for his design of two public buildings: the Boston Museum of Fine Arts (1906–09 and later additions) and the New York State Supreme Court building in New York City (1912–1914 and 1919–1927). Some of his other commissions included Lowell Lecture Hall at Harvard and academic buildings at Phillips Academy Andover, Simmons College, and Brown University.\n\nGuy's work on Harvard University's President's House was commissioned by his cousin, Abbott Lawrence Lowell, during his tenure as Harvard President (1909–1933). The house remained the residence of succeeding presidents until 1971, when Derek Bok (1971–1991) moved his young family to the bucolic grounds of the Elmwood colonial mansion. Elmwood was the lifelong home of another of Guy's ancestors, the celebrated American writer, poet, and foreign diplomat James Russell Lowell (1819–1891). As Percival Lowell's third cousin, Guy became the sole trustee of the Lowell Observatory after his cousin's death in 1916.\n\nLowell also made a name for himself as a landscape architect. His obituary in \"The New York Times\" notes that he designed or \"fitted up\" gardens for the elder J. Pierpont Morgan, Andrew Carnegie, and the Piping Rock Club. Additional garden-related projects included those of T. Jefferson Coolidge, Mrs. Oscar Lasigi in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, and Payne Whitney in Manhasett on Long Island. Lowell designed many of the gardens and grounds for his numerous residential commissions as an architect, but the most significant project appears to have been the grounds of Harbor Hill (1905); the estate may have been Lowell's largest landscape architecture commission.\n\nIt is in the area of education that Lowell left his lasting mark on the profession of landscape architecture. He founded the short-lived, but influential, landscape architecture program at MIT (1900–1910). Under his guidance, the program developed as a synthesis of French planning ideals and Italian garden design, with a significant emphasis on horticulture and engineering. The first students graduated from the program in 1902. It was an undergraduate option from 1900 until 1904, and it continued as a graduate course until 1909, with Lowell's offering instruction in landscape architecture until 1912. (He donated his services, asking that his salary be turned over to the Architecture Department.) He taught an important group of landscape architects their trade including Mabel Keyes Babcock (1862–1931), George Elberton Burnap (1885–1938), Marian Cruger Coffin (1876–1957), Martha Brookes Hutcheson (1871–1959), and Rose Standish Nichols. Lowell's program at MIT provided educational opportunities in landscape architecture for women that they could not find elsewhere; many of his female students went on to become outstanding practitioners.\n\nLowell also published several books, including: \"American Gardens\" (1902), \"Smaller Italian Villas and Farmhouses\" (1916), and \"More Small Italian Villas and Farmhouses\" (1920). He also contributed to \"American Gardens\", a photographic magazine.\n\nLowell died suddenly in the Madeira Islands on February 4, 1927.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6525175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6525175", "title": "Harold J. Noah", "text": "Harold J. Noah\n\nHarold J. Noah (born 1925) is an American educator, whose research and writing have focused on comparative education and economics of education. He was born in London, England and moved to the United States in 1958. His higher education began at the London School of Economics and King’s College, University of London, and was followed by a Ph.D. at Teachers College, Columbia University. He served as Professor at Teachers College, Columbia, from 1964 to 1987. He was appointed to the Gardner Cowles chair in economics of education. He served as Dean of the College from 1976 to 1981. He is widely recognized as a distinguished authority in the field of comparative education.\nIn studies of Soviet education in the 1960s and 1970s Noah dealt primarily with the economic and public finance aspects of schools and higher education in that country. In his teaching he espoused the use of what were at the time increasingly accepted concepts of human capital and rates of return to examine the nature and extent of private and public investments in education and training, in both market and command economies.\n\nFrom the mid-1960s onward, Noah advocated the use of empirical social science methods in comparative education. Much of this work was done in collaboration with his long-standing coauthor, Max A. Eckstein. This collaboration began with “Toward A Science of Comparative Education”, which described and critiqued the development over time of methods of comparing national systems of education. The book sounded a powerful call for the application of positivist methods in comparative education studies.\n\nAmong his most notable works are:\n\n\nBOOKS\n\nFinancing Soviet Schools (New York: Teachers College Press, 1966)\nThe Economics of Education in the U.S.S.R. (New York: Praeger, 1969). Library of Congress Number 68-18925\n\n(with Max A. Eckstein) Toward a Science of Comparative Education (New York: Macmillan, 1969), and the companion book, Scientific Investigations in Comparative Education (New York: Macmillan, 1969). Library of Congress Numbers, respectively, 69-11406 and 69-17349\n\nReviews of National Policies for Education:Germany (Paris:Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation, 1972)\n\nReviews of National Policies for Education: Canada (Paris:Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation, 1979)\n(with Joel Sherman) Educational Financing and Policy Goals for\n\nPrimary Schools: General Report (Paris:Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation, 1979)\n\nThe following were co-authored with Max A. Eckstein:\n\nInternational Study of Business/Industry Involvement in Education (New York: Institute of Philosophy and Politics of Education, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1987)\n\nExaminations: Comparative and International Studies (Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1992) \nSecondary School Examinations: International Perspectives on Policies and Practice (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1993). \n\nDoing Comparative Education: Three Decades of Collaboration (Hong Kong: The University of Hong Kong Press, 1998). \nFraud and Education: The Worm in the Apple (Lanham, Maryland: Rowman and Littlefield, 2001). \n\nSELECTED OTHER PUBLICATIONS\n\n\"Use and abuse of comparative education\", Comparative Education Review 28:4 1984\n\n(with Max Eckstein) \"Dependency theory in comparative education: the new simplicitude,\" UNESCO, Prospects XV:2 1985\n\n\"Education, employment, and development in communist societies,\" in E.B. Gumbert ed., Patriarchy, Party, Population, and Pedagogy (Atlanta, GA: Georgia State University, 1986)\n\n\"General education in the modern university,\" in Hermann Röhrs ed., Tradition and Reform of the University in International Perspective (Frankfurt-am-Main: Peter Lang, 1987)\n\n(with Max Eckstein) \"Tradeoffs in Examination Policies: An International Comparative Perspective,\" Oxford Review of Education 15:1 1989\n\n\"Forms and Functions of Secondary-School Leaving Examinations,\" Comparative Education Review 33:3 1989\n\n\"An International Perspective on National Standards,\" Teachers College Record 91:1 1989\n\n\"Bildungspolitik und Internationale Studien zum Bildungswesen,\" Bildung und Erziehung 44:1 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "44490227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44490227", "title": "Historical Society of Baltimore County", "text": "Historical Society of Baltimore County\n\nThe Historical Society of Baltimore County (HSBC) was founded in 1959 with the goal of preserving, interpreting, and illustrating the history of Baltimore County for the benefit of present and future generations of Marylanders, allowing individuals to find local and family history resources. As the HSBC describes it, they \"continually accomplish\" their mission \"through the production of presentations, lectures, workshops, entertaining educational publications, historical tours, and exhibits.\" Centrally located in Cockeysville, Maryland, the Society operates out of the Agriculture Building, the former Baltimore County Almshouse, which was built in 1872 and used to house the poor and mentally ill of Baltimore County until 1958.\n\nA nonprofit organization, the Society maintains a library and research facility. Since 1966, the Society has published \"History Trails\", a county history journal which the Society defines as \"semi-academic\" and a \"popular history publication.\"\n\nFor fiscal years 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018, HSBC received a $12,000 operating grant from the Baltimore County Executive and Baltimore County Council, which are awarded to \"organizations whose programs demonstrate significant impact on the quality of life of Baltimore County residents.\" In 2018, an African American Heritage Preservation Program Grant workshop, for the Maryland Historical Trust, was held at the HSBC.\n\nLocated on Baltimore’s County Home Property, the Historical Society’s campus comprises several buildings of various ages and states of repair. Chief of these is the Almshouse which houses the offices and library. Other buildings are the Pest house, Smokehouse, and Barn.\n\nConstructed of local limestone in 1872, the Almshouse was damaged by a fire in 1919 after which it was rebuilt. The building has been used in several different capacities since 1958 when modern methods of caring for the indigent dictated its closing as a poorhouse. The Historical Society and various county agencies have been located in the Almshouse since 1959. During the Cold War, the Almshouse was used as a fallout shelter; emergency supplies from that era still reside in the basement. The Almshouse was designated a Baltimore County Landmark in 1980.\nThe Pest House (referring to pestilence) was used to quarantine residents who were ill. The two story building with a slate roof was built shortly after the Almshouse. The exterior is in reasonable condition, but the interior suffers from decades of non-use and vandalism. In 2012, Preservation Maryland placed the Pest House on its list of threatened historic properties. The same year, the Baltimore Sun reported that the 1872 Cockeysville building, \"built to house poor people who had communicable diseases\" was a \"boarded-up structure\" but\nPreservation Maryland was the subject an effort to \"preserve it as a center for county African-American history.\"\n\nThe Barn is a modern structure, built on the foundation of a 19th-century barn destroyed by fire in the 1970s. It now house a farm museum, named in honor of Baltimore County Veterinarian Dickinson Gorsuch (1878-1970) whose bequest enabled the establishment of the museum in 1993 .\n\nObjects from the museum collection of 9,000-10,000 items, some of which are not on general display but can sometimes be seen in special exhibitions. There are also hundreds of archival collections.\n\nThe Society has a collection of over 500 maps and atlases.\n\nThe Society's library contains 4,000 volumes.\n\nMore than 8,000 historic photographs reside in the Society's files.\n\nThe Society maintains 9,000 surname files, most of which can be found on-site, which often contain only one spelling of the surname. Also, for genealogists, maps which show the names of landowners and where they homes are located are available. Additionally, on the first Thursday of each month, the HSBC has free Genealogy classes and there are some inscriptions of gravestones.\n\nPart of the 33,000 records are available in a searchable database which has a \"Keyword Search\", \"Advanced Search\" and \"Random Images button\" along with other catalog searches.\n\nThe society's over 1900 vertical files on varied topics, library holdings, and photograph collection, are indexed online. Those who visit the society have to pay an entrance fee of $5.00 per visit for those who are non-members, with photocopies being 25 cents a page and a $5.00 fee for capturing images using a digital device or phone.\n\nThe HSBC has been a recipient of an award, in 2014, from the Costume Society of America and hosting, in 2009, the friends of Friends of Texas, Maryland. They also held joint events with the Baltimore City Historical Society on [police history and Baltimore's water history. Apart from this, its volunteers have researched a \"progressive little town called Warren\" submerged under the \"waters of Loch Raven Reservoir\" and doing genealogical talks.\n\n"}
{"id": "4824769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4824769", "title": "Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh", "text": "Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh\n\nIbni Oumar Mahamat Saleh (December 31, 1949 – disappeared February 2008) is a Chadian politician and opposition leader who headed the Party for Liberties and Development (PLD).\n\nSaleh was born in Biltine, Chad. He is from Wadi Fira Region in eastern Chad and is a member of the Maba ethnic group. He studied Sciences (Mathematics) at the University of Orleans in France and obtained his PhD in 1978. He was a leader of the student movement named FEANF (Federation of Black African Students in France) and a leader of the first movement of rebellion in Chad named FROLINAT. He was also a professor and researcher in mathematics in France, Algeria, Niger, Chad (at the University of N'Djamena).\n\nDuring Hissène Habré's presidency (1982–90) Ibni Oumar was Minister of Livestock, Higher Education, Scientific Research and Cooperation and Planning (1982–1990), and under his successor Idriss Déby he was Rector of the University of Chad and continued to hold ministerial positions (Cooperation 1991-94). Saleh founded a political party, the Party for Liberties and Development (\"Parti pour les Libertés et le Développement\", PLD), in 1993. He was dismissed as Minister of Planning and Cooperation by Déby on May 17, 1994.\n\nAs of February 2008, Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh was Secretary-General of the PLD, as well as the Secretary-General and Spokesman of the Coordination of Political Parties for the Defense of the Constitution (CPDC), which groups 21 parties. He was the PLD candidate in the May 2001 presidential election; the fairness of the election, which was won by incumbent president Idriss Déby, was hotly contested by Saleh and the other opposition candidates. Saleh was arrested at this time. He boycotted the parliamentary election of 2002, the constitutional referendum of 2005 and the presidential election of 2006, saying that there were not sufficient guarantees that the processes would be free and fair.\n\nOn February 3, 2008, during a battle between government forces and rebels in N'Djamena, Saleh was arrested unidentified militaries, presumably presidential guards, according to the PLD. More than a week later, no information had been released about the arrest or about where Saleh was being held. One of Saleh's cousins expressed particular concern on the grounds that Saleh had been very ill for some time, hoping that medicine, food and clothing could be brought to him wherever he was being held. On February 27, with still no information available about Saleh's whereabouts or condition, his wife met with Carla Bruni, the visiting French President's wife Nicolas Sarkozy. President Sarkozy asked his counterpart Idriss Déby to meet with her as well, but on February 28 she eventually refused to meet with Déby.\n\nFellow opposition leader Ngarlejy Yorongar, who had been arrested the same day than Saleh, said on March 6, 2008 that he believed Saleh had probably died as a result of his treatment in captivity. According to Yorongar, Saleh was severely beaten and it would, in Yorongar's opinion, be miraculous if he had survived such treatment. He urged the French to work to have the truth of the situation disclosed. A cousin of Saleh said at this time that his family had still not received any information and that they were very worried.\nSaleh is the father of four children.\n\nThe three French Mathematical Societies, SFdS, SMAI and SMF have created in 2009 the prize Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh in his memory.\n\nOn March 17, 2008, the CPDC coalition called for Saleh's release and for the establishment of a \"truly international and truly independent commission of inquiry\" to investigate the matter, rather than the commission established by the government. A new and more independent commission was set up to replace the earlier commission on April 2.\n\nThe commission heard testimony from over 1,500 people, including high-ranking officials and the Chadian President himself; its report was submitted to Déby on August 5, 2008 and publicized a month later on September 3. This report concluded that Saleh had been arrested by the army at his home in N'Djamena on February 3, but said that it was not possible to reach a conclusion on what happened to him afterwards due to lack of evidence, while noting that \"people think he is now dead\". The commission raised also some doubts about Yorongar's testimony. Speaking after the report's release, his son, Mohamed Saleh, denounced it as a \"parody\", and he alleged that Déby was responsible for Saleh's death. According to Mohamed Saleh, Déby ordered the Republican Guard to arrest Saleh, who was then taken to the presidential palace, where he was tortured and killed. Mohamed Saleh demanded that the authorities turn his father's body over to his family.\n\nSeveral French MPs or senators, notably Jean-Pierre Sueur, a senator for the Orléans area, where Ibni Saleh did his PhD, pressured the French government for declassifying the documents relating to the French military intervention in February 2008, when France used their troops stationed in Chad to clear up the government. However it is unlikely the French government will release evidence incriminating Déby's team, especially when France is soliciting Chadian help for their strikes against rebel forces in Mali of January 2013.\nIn 2017, the French minister of Defence indicated that he declassified the documents requested by the judges in charge of the inquest.\n\n"}
{"id": "5760793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5760793", "title": "International Financial Statistics", "text": "International Financial Statistics\n\nThe IMF International Financial Statistics (IFS) is a compilation of financial data collected from various sources, covering over 200 countries worldwide, which is published monthly by the International Monetary Fund (IMF).\n\nThe IFS is the IMF’s principal statistical publication covering numerous topics of international and domestic finance. It includes, for most countries, data on exchange rates, balance of payments, international liquidity, money and banking, interest rates, prices, etc. Most annual data begins in 1948, quarterly and monthly data dates back to 1957 and most balance of payments data begins in 1970.\n\nThe IMF compiles the data from various sources including government departments, national accounts, central banks, the United Nations (UN), Eurostat, the International Labour Organization (ILO) and private financial institutions.\n\nThe Economic and Social Data Service (ESDS) International provides the macro-economic datasets free of charge for members of UK higher and further education institutions. In order to access the data, users have to be registered which can be done here. Alternatively, the data is available to explore and download free of charge on the IMF data portal. In addition, the IMF offers an API based on the SDMX standard for automated downloads.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24783829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24783829", "title": "Islamic World Science Citation Database", "text": "Islamic World Science Citation Database\n\nIslamic World Science Citation Database (ISC) is a citation index established by the Iranian Ministry of Science, Research and Technology after it was approved by the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. It only indexes journals from the Islamic world.\n\nIt was announced in Baku, Azerbaijan during the Fourth Islamic Conference of the Ministers of Higher Education and Scientific Research held in October 2008. It is managed by the Islamic World Science Citation Center, located in Shiraz.\n\nIn 2009, ISC partnered with Scopus that allows ISC's publications to be indexed in Scopus.\n\n"}
{"id": "689988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689988", "title": "Ivan Koloff", "text": "Ivan Koloff\n\nIvan Koloff (born Oreal Donald Perras; August 25, 1942 – February 18, 2017) was a Canadian professional wrestler, best known for once holding the WWWF World Heavyweight Championship. He was known as \"The Russian Bear\".\n\nPerras was born in Montreal, Quebec, Canada and raised on a dairy farm in rural Ontario along with his six brothers and three sisters.\n\nSince first watching professional wrestling on TV at the age of eight, he wanted to become a wrestler, and would often wrestle with his brothers growing up. At age 18, he left high school and joined Jack Wentworth's wrestling school in Hamilton, Ontario, where he would lift weights and learn wrestling holds. He stood 5' 10\" tall, and weighed approximately 270 pounds. Towards the end of his career, he dropped a considerable amount of weight and was tipping the scale at 205 pounds.\n\nPerras debuted as an Irish rogue villain character named Red McNulty, billed from Dublin, Ireland and wrestling with an eyepatch. For the next three years, he wrestled around the Toronto area, eventually quitting his regular job to wrestle in the north-western area of Canada. There, Perras acquired much wrestling experience, and from there he made his first trip to Japan.\n\nIn 1967, Perras became \"The Russian Bear\" Ivan Koloff, a bearded villainous character billed from Ukraine, and debuted with the International Wrestling Association in Montreal, Québec. He defeated Johnny Rougeau for the IWA International Heavyweight Championship the following year. Koloff debuted in the World Wide Wrestling Federation in late 1969, managed by \"Captain\" Lou Albano. He soon started a rivalry with then-WWWF World Heavyweight Champion Bruno Sammartino. On January 18, 1971, Koloff defeated Sammartino in Madison Square Garden for the WWWF World Heavyweight Championship by pinfall after a knee drop from the top rope, ending Sammartino's seven and two-third years reign. Koloff lost the championship 21 days later to Pedro Morales, essentially being used as a \"transitional champion\" (as he was used to move the title from Sammartino to Morales without having the two fan favorites work against each other), much like Stan Stasiak and The Iron Sheik would be in later years. After the loss, Koloff remained a contender for the title but never reclaimed it, leaving the WWWF in 1971.\n\nDuring his time in the WWWF, Koloff weighing in at 310 pounds wrestled WWWF World Heavyweight Championship title matches against Sammartino, Morales, Superstar Billy Graham and Bob Backlund, holding the distinction, with fellow villain Stan Stasiak, as one of only two men to challenge all four of these fan favorite champions. Koloff would also be the first opponent to ever challenge for the WWWF World Heavyweight Championship in a steel cage match in a rematch loss against Sammartino. He fought in the WWWF from 1975–1976, 1978–1979 and 1983.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, Koloff found success in the National Wrestling Alliance, winning many regional tag team and singles titles in the Georgia, Florida, and Mid-Atlantic territories. In February 1981, he teamed with Ray Stevens to defeat Paul Jones and Masked Superstar to capture the NWA World Tag Team Championship. This would be the first of his four reigns as NWA World Tag Team Champion, later winning the belts with Don Kernodle and twice with his \"nephew\" (kayfabe), Nikita Koloff as \"The Russians\".\n\nThe Russians (which also included Krusher Kruschev) were a top villainous group from 1984 to 1986, and Nikita, under Perras' training and mentoring, and by association, became a hated villain in his own right, and would go on to have a successful singles career of his own. After Nikita turned on Ivan to join their enemy Dusty Rhodes in 1986, the latter teamed with Vladimir Petrov and Dick Murdoch to get revenge. Koloff's biggest NWA feuds were against Rhodes, The Road Warriors, The Rock 'n' Roll Express (Ricky Morton and Robert Gibson) and Magnum T.A..\n\nIn 1988, Koloff spent time in Paul Jones' faction, The Paul Jones Army, where he was a \"coach\" of sorts for The Powers of Pain, The Barbarian and The Warlord. He later split with Jones, reunited with Nikita, and feuded with Jones' team, The Russian Assassins, before leaving Jim Crockett Promotions in January 1989. He also spent time in Eastern Championship Wrestling, appearing on the very first ECW card in 1992. In 1992, Koloff also wrestled in the first television main event of Jim Cornette's Smoky Mountain Wrestling, beating Bobby Fulton.\n\nPerras wrote a book titled \"Is That Wrestling Fake? The Bear Facts\" that was released on January 1, 2007. He became a born again Christian in 1995 and traveled to churches to share his testimony as an ordained minister. Koloff spoke openly and candidly of his conversion to Christianity and struggles with alcohol and drugs and the crazy days of wrestling in the recent book, \"Life in the Trenches.\"\n\nPerras was named as a defendant in a 2015 lawsuit filed by WWE after they received a letter from him indicating that he intended to sue them for concussion-based injuries sustained during his tenure with them. He was represented by attorney Konstantine Kyros, who is involved in several other lawsuits involving former WWE wrestlers. The lawsuit was dismissed in September 2018.\n\nKoloff died at his home in Winterville, North Carolina, on February 18, 2017 from liver cancer.\n\nKoloff is featured as a playable character in the video games \"Legends of Wrestling\", \"Legends of Wrestling II\" and \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26617725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26617725", "title": "List of Conservative Party (UK) general election manifestos", "text": "List of Conservative Party (UK) general election manifestos\n\nThis is a list of the British Conservative Party general election manifestos since 1900. From 1900 to 1945, the Conservative Party general election manifesto was usually published as a form of a short personal address by the leader of the party. From 1950 the party published a more formal document.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55391886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55391886", "title": "List of Law Reports in Australia", "text": "List of Law Reports in Australia\n\nLaw reports covering the decisions of Australian Courts are collections of decisions by particulars courts, subjects or jurisdictions. A widely used guide to case citation in Australia is the \"Australian Guide to Legal Citation\", published jointly by the \"Melbourne University Law Review\" and the \"Melbourne Journal of International Law\".\n"}
{"id": "36495883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36495883", "title": "List of works by Ritwik Ghatak", "text": "List of works by Ritwik Ghatak\n\nRitwik Kumar Ghatak is mainly known as a filmmaker but, he was also a playwright poet and writer of short stories. Ritwik Kumer Ghatak started his creative career as a poet and a fiction writer. Then he began writing for the theater and became involved with Gananatya Sangha and IPTA. Later he moved to film direction. He also wrote more than 50 essays on film. Satyajit Ray wrote that these essays \"cover(ed) every possible aspect of the cinema\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32997314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32997314", "title": "MATTE", "text": "MATTE\n\nMATTE is an acronym for Major Accident to the Environment. The term is used in EU major accident prevention legislation, socalled Seveso II. Further guidance and the definition of MATTE is available in \"Guidance on the Interpretation of Major Accident to the Environment for the Purposes of the COMAH Regulations\" Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions - June 1999\".\n"}
{"id": "7356556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7356556", "title": "Monastery of Saint Euthymius", "text": "Monastery of Saint Euthymius\n\nThe Saviour Monastery of St. Euthymius is a monastery in Suzdal, Russia.\n\nThe monastery was founded in the 14th century, and grew in importance in the 16th and 17th centuries after donations by Vasili III, Ivan IV and the Pozharsky family, a noble dynasty of the region. Among the buildings erected during this period were the Assumption Church, the bell tower, the surrounding walls and towers, and the seven-domed Cathedral of the Transfiguration of the Saviour. The cathedral was built in the style of the Grand Duchy of Vladimir-Suzdal. Its interior contains restored frescoes by the school of Gury Nikitin of Kostroma, dating from 1689. The tomb of Dmitry Pozharsky lies by the cathedral wall.\n\nThe monastery also contains a prison, built in 1764, which originally housed religious dissidents. The prison continued in use during the Soviet period, and among its better known prisoners was field marshal Friedrich Paulus, who was incarcerated here for a time after his surrender at Stalingrad.\n\nIn 1968 the monastery was turned into a museum complex managed by the Vladimir-Suzdal Museum-Reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "1675459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1675459", "title": "NIS+", "text": "NIS+\n\nNIS+ is a directory service developed by Sun Microsystems to replace its older 'NIS' (Network Information Service). It is designed to eliminate the need for duplication across many computers of configuration data such as user accounts, host names and addresses, printer information and NFS disk mounts on individual systems, instead using a central repository on a master server, simplifying system administration. NIS+ client software has been ported to other Unix and Unix-like platforms.\n\nPrior to the release of Solaris 9 in 2002, Sun announced its intent to remove NIS+ from Solaris in a future release and now recommends that customers instead use an LDAP-based lookup scheme.\n\nNIS+ was present in Solaris 9 and 10 (although both releases include tools to migrate NIS+ data to an LDAP server) and it has been removed from Solaris 11.\n\nNIS and NIS+ are similar only in purpose and name, otherwise, they are completely different implementations. They differ in the following ways:\n\nIn the 1970s, when computers were expensive, and networks consisted of a small number of nodes, administering network information was manageable, and a centralized system was not needed. As computers became cheaper and networks grew larger, it became increasingly difficult to maintain separate copies of network configurations on individual systems.\n\nFor example, when a new user was added to the network, the following files would need to be updated on every existing system:\n\nLikewise, /etc/group would have needed updating every time a new group was added and /etc/hosts would have needed updating every time a new computer was added to the network.\n\nIf a new user with a new system was added to a network of 20 existing systems, the UNIX administrator would need to modify 5 files on 21 machines - 105 files in all. With NIS+, adding users and machines to the network requires changes only to the NIS+ server's maps and the new host’s /etc/nsswitch.conf needs to point to the NIS+ server. When a user logs into any other machine, that host (the NIS+ client), knowing who the NIS+ server is, queries it for the username and password to identify and authenticate the user.\n\nNIS+ also manages several other types of data: NFS mounts (auto_master, auto_home), network booting and other parameters (bootparams, ethers, netmasks, netgroup, networks, protocols, rpc, services), security access (cred), aliases, and timezone.\n\nAn installation of NIS+ comes with such table structures predefined. There are facilities available to create other tables as needed.\n\nOther alternative schemes for storing network information exist, such as the LDAP standard maintained by the IETF, including Microsoft’s LDAP implementation, Active Directory. LDAP can be configured to handle more general information, such as corporate employee structures, phone numbers, address, etc. so it requires more thought and planning. Many organizations require all the features of NIS+, LDAP, and Active Directory and run them all simultaneously.\n\nAnother alternative that has been popular in certain environments is the Hesiod name service, which is based on the DNS protocols.\n\nUnlike NIS, NIS+ uses a hierarchical structure of multiple domains. A NIS+ domain can, and should, be serviced by multiple servers. The primary server is known as the master server, and backup servers are known as replica servers. Both types hold copies of the NIS+ tables. Changes are first committed to the master server and then propagated to replica servers in increments.\n\nNIS+ table permissions determine a user's level of access to the table's contents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23125724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23125724", "title": "Outline of Islam", "text": "Outline of Islam\n\nIslam is an Abrahamic monotheistic religion teaching that there is only one God (Allah) and that Muhammad is a messenger of God.\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Islam.\n\nSunni / Ibadi / Ahmadiyya\n\nShia Twelvers\n\nShia Ismaili\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKey figures\n\n\nKey ideologues\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1079708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1079708", "title": "Palazzo Vecchio", "text": "Palazzo Vecchio\n\nThe Palazzo Vecchio ( \"Old Palace\") is the town hall of Florence, Italy. It overlooks the Piazza della Signoria with its copy of Michelangelo's \"David\" statue as well as the gallery of statues in the adjacent Loggia dei Lanzi.\n\nOriginally called the \"Palazzo della Signoria\", after the Signoria of Florence, the ruling body of the Republic of Florence, it was also given several other names: \"Palazzo del Popolo\", \"Palazzo dei Priori\", and \"Palazzo Ducale\", in accordance with the varying use of the palace during its long history. The building acquired its current name when the Medici duke's residence was moved across the Arno to the Palazzo Pitti.\n\nIn 1299, the commune and people of Florence decided to build a palace that would be worthy of the city's importance, and that would be more secure and defensible in times of turbulence for the magistrates of the commune. Arnolfo di Cambio, the architect of the Duomo and the Santa Croce church, began construction upon the ruins of \"Palazzo dei Fanti\" and \"Palazzo dell'Esecutore di Giustizia\", once owned by the Uberti family. Giovanni Villani (1276–1348) wrote in his \"Nuova Cronica\" that the Uberti were \"rebels of Florence and Ghibellines\", stating that the palazzo was built to ensure that the Uberti family homes would never be rebuilt on the same location.\n\nThe cubical building is made of solid rusticated stonework, with two rows of two-lighted Gothic windows, each with a trefoil arch. In the 15th century, Michelozzo Michelozzi added decorative bas-reliefs of the cross and the Florentine lily in the spandrels between the trefoils. The building is crowned with projecting crenellated battlement, supported by small arches and corbels. Under the arches are a repeated series of nine painted coats of arms of the Florentine republic. Some of these arches can be used as embrasures (\"spiombati\") for dropping heated liquids or rocks on invaders.\nThe solid, massive building is enhanced by the simple tower with its clock. Giovanni Villani wrote that Arnolfo di Cambio incorporated the ancient tower of the Foraboschi family (the tower then known as \"La Vacca\" or \"The Cow\") into the new tower's facade as its substructure; this is why the rectangular tower (height 94 m) is not directly centered in the building. This tower contains two small cells, that, at different times, imprisoned Cosimo de' Medici (the Elder) (1435) and Girolamo Savonarola (1498). The tower is named after its designer \"Torre d'Arnolfo\". The tower's large, one-handed clock was originally constructed in 1353 by the Florentine Nicolò Bernardo, but was replaced in 1667 with a replica made by Georg Lederle from the German town of Augsburg (Italians refer to him as Giorgio Lederle of Augusta) and installed by Vincenzo Viviani.\n\nDuke Cosimo I de' Medici (later to become grand duke) moved his official seat from the Medici palazzo in via Larga to the Palazzo della Signoria in May 1540, signalling the security of Medici power in Florence. When Cosimo later removed to Palazzo Pitti, he officially renamed his former palace to the \"Palazzo Vecchio\", the \"Old Palace\", although the adjacent town square, the \"Piazza della Signoria\", still bears the original name. Cosimo commissioned Giorgio Vasari to build an above-ground walkway, the Vasari corridor, from the Palazzo Vecchio, through the Uffizi, over the Ponte Vecchio to the Palazzo Pitti. Cosimo I also moved the seat of government to the Uffizi.\n\nThe palace gained new importance as the seat of united Italy's provisional government from 1865–71, at a moment when Florence had become the temporary capital of the Kingdom of Italy. Although most of the Palazzo Vecchio is now a museum, it remains as the symbol and center of local government; since 1872 it has housed the office of the mayor of Florence, and it is the seat of the City Council. The tower currently has three bells; the oldest was cast in the 13th century.\n\nAbove the front entrance door, there is a notable ornamental marble frontispiece, dating from 1528. In the middle, flanked by two gilded lions, is the Monogram of Christ, surrounded by a glory, above the text (\"in Latin\"): \"Rex Regum et Dominus Dominantium\" (translation: \"King of Kings and Lord of Lords\". This text dates from 1851 and does not replace an earlier text by Savonarola as mentioned in guidebooks. Between 1529 and 1851 they were concealed behind a large shield with the grand-ducal coat of arms.\n\nMichelangelo's David also stood at the entrance from its completion in 1504 to 1873, when it was moved to the Accademia Gallery. A replica erected in 1910 now stands in its place, flanked by Baccio Bandinelli's Hercules and Cacus.\n\nThe first courtyard was designed in 1453 by Michelozzo. In the lunettes, high around the courtyard, are crests of the church and city guilds. In the center, the porphyry fountain is by Battista del Tadda. The \"Putto with Dolphin\" on top of the basin is a copy of the original by Andrea del Verrocchio (1476), now on display on the second floor of the palace. This small statue was originally placed in the garden of the Villa Medici at Careggi. The water, flowing through the nose of the dolphin, is brought here by pipes from the Boboli Gardens.\n\nIn the niche, in front of the fountain, stands \"Samson and Philistine\" by Pierino da Vinci.\n\nThe frescoes on the walls are vedute of the cities of the Austrian Habsburg monarchy, painted in 1565 by Giorgio Vasari for the wedding celebration of Francesco I de' Medici, the eldest son of Cosimo I de' Medici, to Archduchess Johanna of Austria, sister of the Emperor Maximilian II. Amongst the cities depicted are Graz, Innsbruck, Linz, Vienna, Hall in Tirol, Freiburg im Breisgau and Konstanz. Some were damaged over the course of time.\n\nThe harmoniously proportioned columns, at one time smooth, and untouched, were at the same time richly decorated with gilt stuccoes.\n\nThe barrel vaults are furnished with grotesque decorations.\n\nThe second courtyard, also called \"The Customs\", contains the massive pillars built in 1494 by Cronaca to sustain the great\n\"Salone dei Cinquecento\" on the second floor.\n\nThe third courtyard was used mainly for offices of the city. Between the first and second\ncourtyard the massive and monumental stairs by Vasari lead up to the\n\"Salone dei Cinquecento\".\n\nThis most imposing chamber has a length of 52 m (170 ft) and is 23 m (75 ft) broad. It was built in 1494 by Simone del Pollaiolo, on commission of Savonarola who, replacing the Medici after their exile as the spiritual leader of the Republic, wanted it as a seat of the Grand Council (\"Consiglio Maggiore\") consisting of 500 members.\nLater the hall was enlarged by Giorgio Vasari so that Grand Duke Cosimo I could hold his court in this chamber. During this transformation famous (but unfinished) works were lost, including the \"Battle of Cascina\" by Michelangelo, and the \"Battle of Anghiari\" by Leonardo da Vinci. Leonardo was commissioned in 1503 to paint one long wall with a battle scene celebrating a famous Florentine victory. He was always trying new methods and materials and decided to mix wax into his pigments. Da Vinci had finished painting part of the wall, but it wasn't drying fast enough, so he brought in braziers stoked with hot coals to try to hurry the process. As others watched in horror, the wax in the fresco melted under the intense heat and the colors ran down the walls to puddle on the floor. A legend exists that Giorgio Vasari, wanting to preserve Da Vinci's work, actually had a false wall built over the top of \"The Battle of Anghiari\" before painting his fresco. Attempts made to find Da Vinci's original work behind the Vasari fresco have so far been inconclusive.\n\nMichelangelo never even got past making the preparatory drawings for the fresco he was supposed to paint on the opposite wall—Pope Julius II called him to Rome to paint the Sistine Chapel, and the master's sketches were destroyed by eager young artists who came to study them and took away scraps. The surviving decorations in this hall were made between 1555 and 1572 by Giorgio Vasari and his helpers, among them Livio Agresti from Forlì. They mark the culmination of mannerism and make this hall the showpiece of the palace.\n\nOn the walls are large and expansive frescoes that depict battles and military victories by Florence over Pisa and Siena:\n\nThe ceiling consists of 39 panels also constructed and painted by Vasari and his assistants, representing \"Great Episodes from the life of Cosimo I\", the quarters of the city and the city itself and towards the center is the apotheosis : \"Scene of His Glorification as Grand Duke of Florence and Tuscany\".\n\nOn the north side of the hall, illuminated by enormous windows, is the raised stage called the \"Udienza\", built by Bartolommeo Bandinelli for Cosimo I to receive citizens and ambassadors. Above are frescoes of historical events; among these, that of Boniface VIII receiving the ambassadors of foreign States and, seeing that were all Florentines, saying: \"You Florentines are the quintessence.\"\n\nIn the niches are sculptures by Bandinelli: in the center the statue of the seated \"Leo X\" (sculpted assisted by his student Vincenzo de'Rossi), and on the right a statue of \"Charles V crowned by Clement VII\". The six statues along the walls that represent the \"Labors of Hercules\" are by de' Rossi.\n\nIn the central niche at the south of the Hall is Michelangelo's famous marble group \"The Genius of Victory\" (1533–1534), originally intended for the tomb of Julius II. The statue was placed in this hall by Vasari, but in 1868 was removed to the Bargello Museum, only to return in 1921.\n\nAt the end of the hall is situated a small side room without windows. The studiolo was a small secret study designed by Vasari in a manneristic style (1570–1575). The walls and the barrel vault are filled with paintings, stucco and sculptures. Most paintings are by the School of Vasari and represent the four elements: water, fire, earth, and air. The portrait of Cosimo I and his wife Eleonora of Toledo was made by Bronzino. The delicate bronze sculptures were made by Giambologna and Bartolomeo Ammanati. From a peep-hole, Francesco spied on his ministers and officers during meetings in the Salone dei Cinquecento. Dismantled within decades of its construction, it was re-assembled in the 20th century.\n\nThe other rooms on the first floor are the \"Quartieri monumentali\". These rooms, the Residence of the Priors and the Quarters of Leo X, are used by the mayor as offices and reception rooms. They are not accessible to the public.\n\nA staircase designed by Vasari leads to the second floor. This floor contains the Apartments of the Elements, Priori, and Eleonora of Toledo.\n\nThese apartments (\"Sala degli Elementi\") consist of five rooms (such as the Room of Ceres) and two loggias. The commission for these rooms was originally given by Cosimo I to Giovanni Battista del Tasso. But on his death, the decorations were continued by Vasari and his helpers, working for the first time for the Medicis. These rooms were the private quarters of Cosimo I.\n\nThe walls in the Room of the Elements are filled with allegorical frescoes \"Allegories of Water, Fire and Earth\" and, on the ceiling, represents \"Saturn\".\n\nThe original statue \"Boy with a Fish\" by Verrocchio is on exhibit in one of the smaller rooms (the copy stands on the fountain in the first courtyard).\n\nNamed for the fresco on the ceiling. Has a fabulous view of Florence. There is a southeastern view to Piazzale Michelangelo and the Fortress Belvedere. Also visible are the remains of the Church of San Piero Scheraggio.\n\nThis room (the Sala di Ercole) gets its name from the subject of the paintings on the ceiling. Also the tapestries show stories of Hercules. The room contains a \"Madonna and Child\" and an ebony cabinet called a \"stipo\" inlaid with semi-precious stones.\n\nCosimo the Elder kept a menagerie of lions in a dedicated lion house in the palazzo. He often fought them or baited them against other animals in large festivals for visiting Popes or dignitaries.\n\nThe room is named for the fresco on the ceiling. On the walls are Florentine tapestries made from cartoons by Stradano (16th century).\n\nOn the ceiling, the \"Triumph of Cybele\" and the \"Four Seasons\". Against the walls are cabinets in tortoise shell and bronze. The floor was made in 1556. From the window one can see the third courtyard.\n\nThe room gets its name from the motif on the ceiling, by Doceno, a pupil of Vasari. On the walls are Florentine tapestries with hunting scenes, from cartoons by Stradano.\n\nBeginning in 1540 when Cosimo moved the seat of government here, these rooms were refurbished and richly decorated to be the living quarters of Eleonora.\n\nThis room served as Eleonora's bedchamber and was called the Green Room because of the color of the walls. The decorations on the ceiling are by Ridolfo del Ghirlandaio. A small door in the room indicates the beginning of the Vasari corridor, a passageway to the Palazzo Pitti built by Vasari for Cosimo I.\n\nThe small, richly decorated chapel adjoining the Sala Verde is painted in fresco by the mannerist Angelo Bronzino and includes some of his masterpieces including the Crossing the Red Sea. It was built by Tasso to be Eleonora's private chapel. \n\nIt was named because of the ceiling decoration. At one time it was used for the Ladies-in-waiting at the court of Eleonora di Toledo. It contains \"Portraits of Medici Princes\" by\nSustermans, statues by a Florentine art school and a tapestry by Fevère.\n\nOn the ceiling is the \"Coronation of Esther\" decorated by Stradano, with an inscription in honor of Eleonora di Toledo. The room contains a lavabo and two tapestries by\nVan Assel representing \"Spring and Autumn\".\n\nOn the ceiling \"Penelope at the loom\", in the frieze, \"episodes from the Odyssey\". On the walls: \"Madonna and Child\" and a \"Madonna and Child with St. John\" by Botticelli.\n\nThis room is dedicated to Virtue as personified by Gualdrada. The ceiling painting of Gualdrado is by the Flemish painter Jan Stradan, better known under his Italian name Stradano. Against the wall is a cabinet with Florentine mosaic designs.\n\nThese rooms were used by the \"priori\" (priors) representing the guilds of Florence.\n\nThe Audience Chamber or Hall of Justice used to house the meetings of the priors. It contains the oldest decorations in the palace.\n\nThe carved coffer ceiling, laminated with pure gold, is by Giuliano da Maiano (1470–1476). On the portal to the Chapel of the Signoria is an inscription in honor of Christ (1529). The doorway to the Hall of Lilies has marble mouldings sculpted by the brothers Giuliano and Benedetto da Maiano. The inlaid woodwork (intarsia) on the doors was carved by Del Francione and depicts portraits of Dante and Petrarch.\n\nThe large frescoes on the walls portraying the \"Stories of Furius Camillus\" by Francesco Salviati were made in the middle of the 16th century. Since Salviati had his schooling in the circle around Raphael in Rome, these frescoes are based on Roman models and not typical of Florentine art. Marcus Furius Camillus was a Roman general mentioned in the writings of Plutarch.\n\nA small doorway leads into the adjoining small chapel dedicated to St. Bernard, containing a reliquary of the Saint. Here the priors used to supply divine aid in the execution of their duties. In this chapel, Girolamo Savonarola said his last prayers before he was hanged on the Piazza della Signoria and his body burned.\n\nThe frescoes on the walls and ceiling, on a background imitating gold mosaic, are by Ridolfo Ghirlandaio. Of particular interest are \"The Holy Trinity\" on the ceiling and \"The Annunciation\" on the wall facing the altar. On the altar was a painting representing the \"Holy Family\" by Mariano Graziadei da Pescia, a pupil of Ridolfo Ghirlandaio. It is now on exhibition in the corridor of the Uffizi Gallery. Instead, there is a good painting of St. Bernard by an unknown artist.\n\nThe carved ceiling of the Hall of the Lilies, as this room is usually called, decorated with \"fleur-de-lys\", and the \"Statue of St. John the Baptist and Putti\" are all by Benedetto da Maiano and his brother Giuliano. The golden fleur-de-lys decorations on blue background on the ceiling and three walls refer to the (short-lived) good relations between Florence and the French Crown.\nOn the wall are frescoes by Domenico Ghirlandaio, painted in 1482. The apotheosis of St. Zenobius, first patron saint of Florence, was painted with a perspectival illusion of the background. In this background one can see the Cathedral, with Giotto's original facade and bell tower. In the lunette above is a bas-relief of the Madonna and Child. This fresco is flanked on both sides by frescoes of famed Romans: on the left \"Brutus, Gaius Mucius Scaevola and Camillus\", and on the right \"Decius, Scipio and Cicero\". Medaillons of Roman emperors fill the spandrils between the sections.\n\nAfter its lengthy restoration, the (original) statue \"Judith and Holofernes\" by Donatello was given a prominent place in this room in 1988.\n\nA door in the east wall leads to the \"Stanza della Guardaroba\" (Hall of Geographical Maps). This door is flanked by two dark marble pillars, originally from a Roman temple.\n\nThe Hall of Geographical Maps or \"Guardaroba\" was an ambitious room that set out to represent the known world of the 16th century through the display of a collection of artifacts and murals of cartography, all seen in relation to scientific instruments of time and astronomy. For various reasons, it was not seen to completion, yet the accounts of Giorgio Vasari the rooms designer, detail the proposed purpose and visualisation of the space. The Guardaroba was commissioned by Cosimo I de’ Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany during his major reconstruction of the interior of the Palazzo. Construction of the \"guardaroba\" began in 1563.\n\nThe idea behind the guardaroba is similar that of late medieval studioli, which were small private study spaces, containing precious collected artifacts. Many courtly residences possessed similar spaces to the \"guardaroba\", yet the guardaroba of Palazzo della Signoria is one of the earliest examples that integrates cartography into its decorative elements.\n\n\"Guardaroba\" best translates to a type of storage space, or ‘wardrobe’ and its purpose was to house a collection; an early \"wunderkammer\" of sorts. Evidently, collections of artifacts and precious items existed before the Renaissance, yet it is not until the Renaissance that there consistently appeared collections which were preserved and interpreted, known as wunderkammen. Vasari’s account of the program for the guardaroba highights Cosimo I’s instructions to create a space for some of the more precious items in the Medici collection. He had also instructed Vasari to design the space so it was fit for visitors, ultimately becoming a semi-public gallery space.\n\nMaster carpenter Dionigi di Matteo Nigetti (active Florence 1565-79) constructed the finely crafted and carved walnut cabinets and ceiling panels that can still all be found in the room today. Each of the doors was to be decorated with an up-to-date map of a particular region. Vasari called the map murals, Tables of Ptolemy, recognising Claudius Ptolemaeus (AD b.127-d.145) significant contributions to the history and progress of cartography. The responsibility of painting the Tables of Ptolemy was entrusted to renowned cosmographer Egnazio Danti, who was later responsible for the maps in the Vatican Galleria, Hall of Maps. Each map mural, of which there were to be 57 in total, was painted directly onto the cabinet doors, 53 of these Murals remain today. The regions depicted in the map would correspond to a collection of objects and artifacts within that cabinet. The map murals were arranged across the cabinet doors in two horizontal rows representing the hemispheres and navigated most of the perimeter of the room, only interrupted at the doorway and window. A layout of maps in this fashion came to be known as a ‘map cycle’, a term Cosimo I’s guardaroba likely initiated. The may cycle is divided into sections of the then known four continents, Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas. The \"guardaroba\" was one of the more unusual projects commissioned by Cosimo I and therefore, Vasari wrote concisely on its programme and its progress.\n\n“\"Over the doors of those cupboards within their ornaments, Fra Egnazio has distributed fifty seven pictures about two braccia high and wide in proportion, in which are painted in oils on the wood with the greatest diligence, after the manner of miniatures, the Tables of Ptolemy, all measured with perfect accuracy and corrected after the most recent authorities, with exact charts of navigation and their scales for measuring and degrees, done with supreme diligence; and with these are all the names both ancient and modern…The images of plants and animals are exactly in line with the maps…The terrestrial globe is marked distinctly and it is possible to use it for all the operations of the astrolabe perfectly\"” - Giorgio Vasari - Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects\nAs well as the maps on the cabinets, other images adorned the room. Up to 300 portraits of famous people of the day hung around highest perimeters of the walls and would be revealed from beneath green cloth curtains. In between the cabinets doors, were to be mounted natural history drawings of flora and fauna that, as Vasari indicated above, would have been in line with its corresponding regions on the maps in a similar fashion to the objects that are revealed from beneath their corresponding region. The collected artifacts were arranged and maintained by curators and conservators known as guardarobiere, in a similar manner to the role of the contemporary museum.\n\nThe rarer an item, the more attractive it was to the collector and desired for the collection. Objects from the Americas or New World as it was then referred to, were particularly valuable at this time as Italians were not allowed to travel there without permission from Spain or Portugal. Instead, they explored this region vicariously through objects and the Medici possessed a significant collection of artifacts from the Americas, largely collecting featherwork.\n\nVasari intended the worldly representation in the \"guardaroba\" to be seen in relation to the larger cosmos, represented by a celestial sphere in the centre of the room and painted constellations on the ceiling. He also had grand visions of two large globes, a terrestrial and celestial hidden behind a false ceiling that could be lowered impressively via a pulley system into the room below. The room was also to display a copy of the 1484 clock made for Lorenzo de Medici by Lorenzo della Volpaia. An Antonio Santucci (b.? d.1613) armillary sphere that is now at the Florence Museum of the History of Science, was also displayed in the \"guardaroba\" along with a second, earlier armillary sphere that is now lost. It is the relationships between these objects and maps and the context for which they are shown that produces intended symbolic gestures; the clock, in relation to the maps, in relation to the celestial representations were an attempt to generate an effect of possessed knowledge over all space and time and in the case of the guardaroba, Cosimo I de Medici was to be seen as the possessor and purveyor of this knowledge, generating a narrative of his power.\n\nA digital reconstruction of the room, as it was designed and described by Giorgio Vasari can be found here.\n\nThis was Machiavelli's office when he was Secretary of the Republic. His polychrome bust in terracotta and his portrait are by Santi di Tito. They are probably modelled on his death mask.\nIn the center of the room, on the pedestal is the famous \"Winged Boy with a Dolphin\" by Verrocchio, brought to this room from the First Courtyard.\n\nLocated in between the first and second floors, these rooms are occupied by Renaissance and Medieval objects given in a bequest by Charles Loeser, an American expat collector and scholar. This collection is one of the most valuable municipal collections for its artistic and historical value. The rooms are located in the old palace, and were renovated in the mid-15th century by Michelozzo. It is the only part of the palace where the original 14th- and 15th-century ceilings are still entirely visible. Cosimo I's mother Maria Salviati lived in these rooms after Cosimo moved the family from Palazzo Medici to the Palazzo Vecchio (at that point Palazzo Ducale).\n\nThe first room holds a \"Madonna con Bambino e san Giovannino\", from the school of Lorenzo di Credi, a \"Madonna col Bambino\" in stucco painted in the Florentine school in the 15th century, a \"Madonna in Adoration by Christ with Saint Giovannino\" by Jacopo del Sellaio, a \"Madonna and Child\" attributed to Master of the Griggs Crucifix (15th century), and a \"Madonna Enthroned\" by the Tuscan school of the 14th century. \nAbove the stone steps is a little room that was for a time a studiolo for Cosimo I. The window looks out over Piazza della Signoria and the room is decorated with birds, animals, fishes, and vegetal elements works by Bachiacca.\n\nThe dining room holds one of the most famous works of the Loeser Collection, \"The Portrait of Laura Battiferri\" (wife of Bartolomeo Ammannati), by famous Renaissance painter Bronzino around 1555. Adjacent is another Mannerist work, \"The Portrait of Ludovico Martelli\", by a follower of Pontormo, possibly Michele Tosini. There is also a small sketch on fresco, \"Battle of the Knights\" for Vasari's \"Defeat of the Pisans at the Tower of Saint Vincent\", by a student Giovan Francesco Naldini, which used to be displayed on the balcony above the Salone dei Cinquecento by Vasari's complementary monumental work. By the fireplace are two Romanesque sculptures, a capital with an eagle (first half of the 13th century) and a Coronation Head (first half of 12th century).\n\nIn the corner room, three Madonna and Children paintings are on display. The first, \"Madonna and Child\" is by the Master of Saints Flora and Lucilla, from the 14th century. The second, \"Madonna and Child with Saint Little Saint John\" is a later Renaissance work by Spanish artist Alonso Berruguete from 1514-1518, and the third is \"Madonna and Child\" by prominent Sienese artist Pietro Lorenzetti. This room also holds \"Adoring Angel\" by Tino di Camaino from around 1321, a \"Bust of Saint Antonino\" in painted plaster from the 15th century, and an embroidery designed by Raffaellino del Garbo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48036457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48036457", "title": "Prescott v. Oklahoma Capitol Preservation Commission", "text": "Prescott v. Oklahoma Capitol Preservation Commission\n\nPrescott v. Oklahoma Capitol Preservation Commission, 2015 OK 54 (Okla. 2015), was an Oklahoma Supreme Court case in which the Court found the placement of a Ten Commandments Monument at the Oklahoma State Capitol unconstitutional. The case was filed by the American Civil Liberties Union of Oklahoma on behalf of four plaintiffs challenging the placement of the monument following its donation by Representative Mike Ritze. Defended by the Oklahoma Attorney General and the Liberty Institute, the case was decided by a 7-2 majority of the Court, which found that the monument violated the Oklahoma Constitution.\n\nThe case has proven both influential and controversial, leading to calls for changing the Oklahoma Constitution from some conservatives in the Oklahoma Legislature. The case has been subject to heavy press coverage both in Oklahoma and nationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "842198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842198", "title": "Purchase order", "text": "Purchase order\n\nA purchase order (PO) is a commercial document and first official offer issued by a buyer to a seller, indicating types, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services. It is used to control the purchasing of products and services from external suppliers. Purchase orders can be an essential part of enterprise resource planning system orders.\n\nThe issue of a purchase order does not itself form a contract. If no prior contract exists, then it is the acceptance of the order by the seller that forms a contract between the buyer and seller.\n\nCompanies use purchase orders for several reasons. Purchase orders allow buyers to clearly and explicitly communicate their intentions to sellers. They may also help a purchasing agent to manage incoming orders and pending orders. Sellers are also protected by POs in case of a buyer's refusal to pay for goods or services.\n\nPurchase orders provide benefits in that they streamline the purchasing process to a standard procedure. Commercial lenders or financial institutions may provide financial assistance on the basis of purchase orders. There are various trade finance facilities that almost every financial institution allows business people to use against purchase orders such as:\n\n\nThe purpose of purchase orders is to procure materials for direct consumption or for stock, procure services, cover customer requirements using external resources, or procure a material that is needed in plants from an internal source (Long distance intra-plant stock transfers). They may also place once-only procurement transactions and optimize purchasing by taking full advantage of negotiated conditions or for optimal utilisation of existing transport capacities.\n\nCreating a purchase order is typically the first step of the purchase to pay process in an ERP system. Purchase orders may require a SKU code. Within an ERP system, a purchase order can be created manually, and may require confirmation or changes via editing. Within an ERP system (such as in SAP), manually creating a purchase order within the system may look something like \"Logistics -> Materials Management -> Purchasing -> Purchasing Order -> Create\" and providing a Transaction Code. This document type will be chosen from the screen. A vendor code lookup may need to be selected for a purchase order steps, as well as things like organization group and company code.\n\nAlthough a typical purchase order may not contain contract language (in fact most contain little more than a list of the goods or services the buyer desires to purchase, along with price, payment terms, and shipping instructions), the purchase order is a specially regarded instrument regulated by the Uniform Commercial Code or other similar law which establishes a purchase order as a contract by its nature. Yet despite the nature of the purchase order as a contract, it is common to accompany the acceptance of a purchase order with a legal document such as the terms & conditions of sale, which establish specific or additional legal conditions of the contract.\n\nThe US Federal Acquisition Regulation states that purchase orders should generally be issued on a fixed-price basis, but provision is also made for unpriced purchase orders to be issued where \"it is impractical to obtain pricing in advance of issuance of the purchase order\".\n\nMany purchase orders are no longer paper-based, but rather transmitted electronically over the Internet. It is common for electronic purchase orders to be used to buy goods or services of any type online.\n\nThere are lots of names/terms for Electronic Purchase Orders. It is sometimes known as: E-Procurement, E-Purchasing, E-Purchase Requisition. These terms are normally all referring to Electronic Purchase Orders.\n\n\"The record of purchase order in most business firms are still on paper and thus there is a need for proper purchase order format. Many users wish to have professional formatting for purchase orders for several reasons. A company may wish to have a strong understanding of purchase transactions or to know the basic requirements of purchase order. It may also make it part of business documentation, which makes the process easier while keeping record of all transactions and to have good impression on the client or customer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18673520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18673520", "title": "Que sais-je?", "text": "Que sais-je?\n\n“Que sais-je?” (; Literally: \"What do I know?\", ) is an editorial collection published by the Presses universitaires de France (PUF). The aim of the series is to provide the lay reader with an accessible introduction to a field of study written by an expert in the field. As such, they are a good example of \"haute vulgarisation\" (high popularization). The sentence \"Que sais-je?\" is taken from the works of French essayist Michel de Montaigne. \n\nStarted in 1941 by Paul Angoulvent (1899–1976), founder of the Presses Universitaires de France, the series now numbers over 3,900 titles by more than 2,500 authors, and translated in more than 43 languages. Somes titles have sold more than 300,000 copies (namely by Piaget). Each year, 50 to 60 new titles are added to the collection, which comprises ten different series. As such, it easily constitutes the world's largest running 'encyclopedia' in paperback format. The range of subjects is truly encyclopedic, covering everything from \"chanson de geste\" and Homer to gastronomy and free will. Not all subjects are academic—they may include current topics, such as violence in sports or personal coaching. The presentation of information is varied and may consist of an introduction to a subject, a detailed essay on a school of thought, or an analysis of current events. Up to 2004, more than 160 millions copies had been sold worldwide.\n\nThe series is unusual in several ways: first, the price for each volume is the same and is kept to a minimum (€9 as of mid-2011), and each book has 128 pages.\n\nWhen a title has become out of date, it may be withdrawn from the series or it may be updated. Sometimes this updating involves a complete re-writing of the book, as for example \"Parfumerie\" (volume 1888): originally written by Edmond Roudnitska in 1980 and re-written by Jean-Claude Ellena in 2006, but keeping the same number within the series.\n\nThe series is similar to other series such as Collection 128 published by Armand Colin in France, the Very Short Introductions published by Oxford University Press and C.H. Beck Wissen published by Verlag C.H. Beck.\n\n"}
{"id": "31779125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31779125", "title": "RPE2", "text": "RPE2\n\nRPE2, or Relative server Performance Estimate 2, is a computer benchmark developed by Ideas International to compare the relative performance of servers built on x86, IA-64, and RISC processor architectures. \n\nThe benchmark is a composite of results, or estimated results, from the SAP SD Standard Application Two-Tier benchmark, TPC-C, TPC-H, SPECjbb2005, SPECint, and SPECfp benchmarks. The benchmark was created in 2005, replacing an earlier benchmark called RPE.\n\nRPE2 data is incorporated into some server capacity planning tools, such as \nthe ATS Server Consolidation Monitor from IBM and Data Center Intelligence software from CIRBA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47792836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47792836", "title": "Requiem for Dominic", "text": "Requiem for Dominic\n\nRequiem for Dominic () is a 1991 Austrian drama film directed by Robert Dornhelm. The film was selected as the Austrian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 63rd Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35911598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35911598", "title": "S v Van Zyl", "text": "S v Van Zyl\n\nS v Van Zyl is an important case in South African law, heard in the Orange Free State Provincial Division by Steyn J and Malherbe J on 10 February 1986, with judgment handed down on 27 February. The court found that the crime of arson can be committed by a person who sets fire to his own immovable property with the intention of harming another in his property.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8326265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8326265", "title": "Smithsonian Global Sound", "text": "Smithsonian Global Sound\n\nSmithsonian Global Sound (SGS) is the digital archive project of the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage (SCFCH), launched in 2005 by Smithsonian Folkways, the nonprofit record label of the Smithsonian Institution. Its stated mission is to preserve and disseminate a wide range of the world's music. By making the archives of Smithsonian Folkways and its partner organizations available for online purchase and downloading, Smithsonian Global Sound brings the promotion and preservation of local traditions into the global digital age.\n\nPart of SGS’s mission is to support local musicians and traditions from around the globe through international recognition, the payment of royalties, and partnership with regional archives. SGS collaborates with institutions around the planet to record, catalog and digitize music and other verbal arts and distribute them via the Internet. It promotes the honoring of intellectual-property rights of composers, musicians, and producers by ensuring that royalties are paid to artists and institutions, internationally.\n\nAs of September 1, 2009, Smithsonian Global Sound was combined with Smithsonian Folkways to provide a single destination for access to all the recordings, videos, and educational resources of Smithsonian Folkways and partner archives. Going forward, the activities of Smithsonian Global Sound will continue under the name Smithsonian Folkways.\n\nThe Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage began the mission of recording, archiving, and distributing the world's music in 1987, the year it acquired Folkways Records and its archive of 2,168 album titles. The Center maintains the original catalog in print, along with some 300 titles, newly recorded or re-released from the archive. \n\nIn February 2005, Smithsonian Global Sound was created to digitize this vast collection of recordings and make it available in new media. It now offers nearly the entire Folkways and Smithsonian Folkways Recordings catalogues and the collections of two regional archives: the Archives and Research Centre for Ethnomusicology (ARCE), founded in 1982 to preserve collections of Indian music and oral traditions in New Delhi, India and the International Library of African Music (ILAM), established in Grahamstown, South Africa in 1954 as a repository of African music.\n\nGlobal Sound plans on extending its offerings through agreements with other archives of traditional and classical music. To deliver high-quality audio, SGS assists partner-archives in acquiring digital recording and processing equipment and supporting technical training in its use. Global Sound is currently in negotiation with other archives and organizations from around the world for partnership with SGS. The Smithsonian has agreements for various online music vendors such as iTunes and eMusic, as well as a partnership with Alexander Street Press for use by universities.\n\nThe Creativity and Culture Program and the Program Investment Fund of the Rockefeller Foundation and the Paul Allen Foundation for Music have both provided initial support to Smithsonian Global Sound.\n\n"}
{"id": "39309668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39309668", "title": "Spatial Concept: Nature", "text": "Spatial Concept: Nature\n\nSpatial Concept: Nature is a bronze sculpture by Lucio Fontana, installed at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C. The work was designed during 1959-1960 and cast in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "752996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752996", "title": "State's attorney", "text": "State's attorney\n\nA state's attorney or state attorney is a lawyer representing the interests of the state in a legal proceeding, typically as a prosecutor. It is an official title in the United States, sometimes appointed but most commonly an elected official serving as the chief law enforcement officer of his or her county, circuit, or district. The offices of district attorney, commonwealth's attorney, county attorney, county prosecutor, or prosecuting attorney are more frequently the case in the United States although South Carolina uses the term solicitor. The state of Florida and other countries also use or used the term state's attorney, like the Boer republics of the Orange Free State (1854–1902) and the South African Republic (1852–1902) in South Africa. In these cases the position corresponded to that of the attorney general in the British judicial system. It is used within the Attorney-General's Department of Sri Lanka.\n\nThe principal duties of the state's attorney are usually mandated by law and include representing the State in all criminal trials for crimes which occurred in the state's attorney's geographical jurisdiction. The geographical jurisdiction of a state's attorney may be delineated by the boundaries of a county, judicial circuit, or judicial district.\n\nTheir duties generally include charging crimes through informations and/or grand jury indictments. After levying criminal charges, the state's attorney will then prosecute those charged with a crime. This includes conducting discovery, plea bargaining, and trial.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the state's attorney may act as chief counsel for city police, county police, state police and all state law enforcement agencies within the state's attorney's jurisdiction.\n\nAssistant State's Attorney, or state prosecutor, is the title applied to all attorneys working in a state's attorney's office, with the exception of the state's attorney. An assistant state's attorney (ASA) is hired or appointed to the position by the elected state's attorney and derives the power to act on behalf of the state in criminal prosecutions through the state's attorney.\n\nASAs decide what criminal charges to bring, and when and where a person will answer to those charges. In carrying out their duties, ASAs have the authority to investigate persons, grant immunity to witnesses and accused criminals, and plea bargain with defendants. The caseload of an ASA is generally regarded as being high in volume, with an ASA having anywhere from a few dozen to several hundred active cases at any given time.\n\nGenerally, the salary of an ASA will be much lower than the elected state's attorney. The non-monetary benefits of the job induce many to work as an ASA; these include the opportunity to amass trial experience, perform a public service, and network professionally.\n\nUpon leaving employment as an ASA, persons seek employment as a judge, in private law firms, or as U.S. Attorneys.\n\nThe state's attorney usually divides their services into several departments that handle different areas of criminal law. Each department is staffed by several duly appointed and sworn ASAs. The departments of a large state's attorney's Office may include but are not limited to: felony, misdemeanor, domestic violence, traffic, juvenile, charging (or case filing), drug prosecution, forfeitures, civil affairs such as eminent domain, child advocacy, child support, victim assistance, appeals, career criminal prosecution, homicide, investigations, organized crime/gang, and administration.\n\nDepending on state law, appeals are moved to appellate courts (also called appeals courts, courts of appeals, superior courts, or supreme courts in some states). During the appeals process State's Attorneys, in many cases, hands all relative prosecutorial materials to a State Appellate Prosecutor who in turn will represent the state in appellate courts with the advice and consent of the State's Attorney. The State's Attorney in small counties is responsible for grand jury indictments, motions, proceedings, and trying cases by jury or bench until verdict. In larger counties, the State's Attorney acts as an administrator and delegates most of the trial work to Assistant State's Attorney or Assistant District Attorneys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5442478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5442478", "title": "The Hardy Boys Detective Handbook", "text": "The Hardy Boys Detective Handbook\n\nThe Hardy Boys Detective Handbook is a special volume in the original Hardy Boys book series published by Grosset & Dunlap.\n\nThe book is composed of several didactic short fictional stories illustrating various actual crime detection methods featuring the Hardy Boys and their friends. Although some of the material is dated, the book remains a useful primer on topics such as basic forensics techniques, including the examination of fingerprints and shoe prints at crime scenes, as well as a brief introduction to the basic properties of various illegal drugs.\n\nFour editions were printed:\n"}
{"id": "37031837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37031837", "title": "Welfare chauvinism", "text": "Welfare chauvinism\n\nWelfare chauvinism (also welfare state nationalism) is a term used for the political notion that welfare benefits should be restricted to certain groups, particularly to the natives of a country as opposed to immigrants. It is used as an argumentation strategy by right-wing populist parties, which describes a rhetorical connection between the problems of the welfare state and, in essence, immigration, but also other social groups such as welfare recipients and the unemployed. The focus is placed on categorizing state residents in two extremes: the \"nourishing\" and \"debilitating\" and the contradiction between them in the competition for the society's scarce resources.\n\nThe term welfare chauvinism was first used in social science in the 1990 paper \"Structural changes and new cleavages: The progress parties in Denmark and Norway\" by Jørgen Goul Andersen and Tor Bjørklund. They described it as the notion that \"welfare services should be restricted to our own\".\n\nIn the description of society and the problems of the welfare state, populists, especially right-wing populists and welfare chauvinists, use a line of argument based on two extremes in which citizens are divided into 'nourishing' and 'debilitating' groups. The nourishing group consists of those who are a part of society's welfare and the country's prosperity: community builders; \"the people\"; the ordinary honest working man. The second group as standing outside of \"the people\" are the debilitating group, believed to be promoting or utilizing welfare without adding any value to society. The debilitating group consists of bureaucrats, academics, immigrants, the unemployed, welfare recipients and others. As such, welfare is seen as a system with embedded exclusion mechanisms.\n\nAccording to welfare chauvinists, the safety net of the welfare state are for those whom they believe belong in the community. By the right-wing populist standard, affiliations with society are based in national, cultural and ethnic or racial aspects. Considered to be included in the category are those that are regarded as nourishing. The debilitating group (primarily immigrants) is considered to be outside of society and to be unjustly utilizing the welfare system. In essence, welfare chauvinists consider immigration to be a drain on societal scarce resources. They believe these resources should be used for the ethnically homogeneous native population, preferably children and the elderly.\n\nThe same principle of argument is, according to the academics Peer Scheepers, Mérove Gijsberts and Marcel Coenders, transferred to the labor market; where the competition for jobs is made out to be an ethnic conflict between immigrants and the native population. In times of high unemployment this rhetorical coupling amplifies and enhances the legitimacy of the welfare chauvinist and other xenophobic arguments.\n\nExamples of contemporary parties that use, or used, a welfare chauvinist argumentation strategy: the Progress Party and Danish People's Party in Denmark, Front National in France, Freedom Party of Austria in Austria, The Republicans in Germany, Sweden Democrats, UK Independence Party in Britain and New Democracy in Sweden, Golden Dawn in Greece and One Nation in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12962867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12962867", "title": "William Barden Jr.", "text": "William Barden Jr.\n\nWilliam Barden Jr. is an author of books and articles on computer programming. Barden's writings mainly covered microcomputers, computer graphics and assembly language and BASIC programming. He was a contributing editor for The Rainbow magazine in which he wrote a monthly column called \"Barden's Buffer\" on low-level assembly language programming on the TRS-80 Color Computer. Some of his books were published under the name \"William T. Barden\". He lives in Scottsdale, Arizona.\n\n"}
{"id": "43677946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43677946", "title": "Wilson v New Brighton Panelbeaters Ltd", "text": "Wilson v New Brighton Panelbeaters Ltd\n\nWilson v New Brighton Panelbeaters Ltd [1989] 1 NZLR 74 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding interference of goods.\n\nThe plaintiff left his Hillman Hunter car parked in his carport, and whilst he was away at the nearby beach, as what had been described as a cruel hoax, an unknown person arranged for New Brighton Panelbeaters to tow the car away. The car was never recovered.\n\nThe plaintiff sued for damages for trespass, as well as for conversion.\n\nJudgment for the plaintiff.\n"}
{"id": "713997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=713997", "title": "Winnipeg Declaration", "text": "Winnipeg Declaration\n\nThe Winnipeg Declaration (sometimes referred to as the Winnipeg Manifesto) was the programme adopted by the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) in Canada to replace the Regina Manifesto. Its full name is the \"1956 Winnipeg Declaration of Principles of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation\" and it was adopted at the party's national convention held that year in Winnipeg, Manitoba.\n\nThe declaration reflected the evolution of the party from socialism to a more moderate form of social democracy and Keynesian economics since its founding during the Great Depression. It also reflected the increased pragmatism that coloured the party since taking power in the province of Saskatchewan. The anti-communist mood of the Cold War also caused the CCF to seek to moderate its stance. CCF federal vice-president and future New Democratic Party leader David Lewis was instrumental in drafting the document and having it approved. \n\nWhere the Regina Manifesto called for a socialist economy in which major sectors of the economy would be nationalized and placed under public control, the Winnipeg Declaration called for a mixed economy in which \"there will be an important role for public, private and co-operative enterprise working together in the people's interest\". The declaration also moderated earlier demands for a planned economy and where the Regina Manifesto declared that the CCF would not rest until capitalism was \"eradicated\" the 1956 declaration affirmed that \"The CCF will not rest content until every person in this land and in all other lands is able to enjoy equality and freedom, a sense of human dignity, and an opportunity to live a rich and meaningful life as a citizen of a free and peaceful world.\"\n\nThe Winnipeg Declaration remained the basic statement of party principles of the CCF and its successor, the New Democratic Party, until 1983 when it was replaced by the Statement of Principles.\n\n"}
{"id": "448573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448573", "title": "WordWeb", "text": "WordWeb\n\nWordWeb is an international English dictionary and thesaurus program for Microsoft Windows, iOS, Android and Mac OS X. Available for download online, the program is partly based on the WordNet database.\n\nThe program is activated by holding down CTRL and right-clicking on a word in almost any program. This opens the WordWeb main window, with definitions and other help.\n\nThe program usually resides in the tray.\n\n\nThe thesaurus is integrated into the dictionary; synonyms, as well as detailed categorization of the relationship between words, are shown under the definition. The program shows:\n\n\nUsers can also actively improve the dictionary and thesaurus by submitting errors (such as missing words/phrases/senses) and enhancement requests.\n\nThe program has two versions: the free version (which does not have the word list, search, anagram, or customization features), and the paid version, called 'WordWeb Pro'.\n\nWordWeb 5 added the ability to list entries from three web sources: Wikipedia, Wiktionary, and WordWeb Online. These details are presented in three separate tabs, which are built into the client application. Version 6 added audio pronunciations and support for third-party Oxford and Chambers add-on dictionaries.\n\nWordWeb 7 is mainly a content upgrade, with revised definition and sound database, but also has significantly updated one-click support for latest browsers and 64-bit programs.\nChanges in this version include:\n1) New and revised definitions and related words\n2) Updated audio pronunciations\n3) Improved one-click integration with other programs\n4) Better one-click 64-bit and Windows 8 program support\n5) Keyboard hotkeys for Bookmark menu items\n6) Auto-detect support for latest 3-rd party Concise Oxford and Merriam-Webster\n\nWordWeb 7 requires Windows Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8 or Windows 10 (desktop).\n\nWordWeb 8 includes one-click and keyboard lookup, including in Thunderbird and FireFox without plugin. Support for Windows XP was dropped.\n\nNo version of WordWeb (including Pro) is available for Unix, however, it can be used with Wine. A similar program which includes some of WordWeb Pro's features, Artha is available for both Linux and Windows; a port to Macintosh is promised. Artha too is based on the WordNet database.\n\nUse of the free version is subject to license terms. However, it might be used by an educational institution (free of cost) for their students, even if they violate said terms.\n\nWordWeb is regionalized, with specific dictionaries for Australian, British, Canadian, American, Irish, New Zealand, South African, and Indian English.\n\n"}
