{"id": "45415300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45415300", "title": "2C-T-16", "text": "2C-T-16\n\n2C-T-16 is a lesser-known psychedelic drug. It was originally named by Alexander Shulgin as described in his book PiHKAL (Phenethylamines i Have Known And Loved), however while Shulgin began synthesis of this compound he only got as far as the nitrostyrene intermediate, and did not complete the final synthetic step. Synthesis of 2C-T-16 was finally achieved by Daniel Trachsel some years later, and it was subsequently reported as showing similar psychedelic activity to related compounds, with a dose range of 10–25 mg and a duration of 4–6 hours, making it around the same potency as the better-known saturated analogue 2C-T-7, but with a significantly shorter duration of action. Binding studies \"in vitro\" showed 2C-T-16 to have a binding affinity of 44nM at 5-HT and 15nM at 5-HT. 2C-T-16 and related derivatives are potent partial agonists of the 5-HT, 5-HT, 5-HT and 5-HT receptors and induce a head-twitch response in mice.\n\nAs of October 31, 2016, 2C-T-16 is a controlled substance (Schedule III) in Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55464516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55464516", "title": "Ajaya: Roll of the Dice", "text": "Ajaya: Roll of the Dice\n\nAjaya: Roll of the Dice is a 2013 Indian novel of mythological fiction written by Anand Neelakantan. The first installment of the Ajaya series, it tells the story of the Kauravas. As opposed to the usual tale told from the point of view of the victors, this entire story is written from Duryodhana's view.\n\n\"Hindustan Times\" writes, \"Neelakantan got Ravana to steal Rama’s thunder as the hero of the Ramayana. He dismantled long-cherished beliefs of good and evil, questioning the idea of victory and defeat. sold 1,30,000 copies, but Neelakantan is far from finished. Now, Ajaya: Roll Of The Dice, takes on the Mahabharata, this time focusing on the ‘unconquerable’ Kauravas.\" The Indian Nerve rated it 3.5 out of 5 stating \"The simple and gripping writing style coupled with fast-paced story throughout the book is sure to make you enjoy the book.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53944229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53944229", "title": "Area 51: The Dreamland Chronicles", "text": "Area 51: The Dreamland Chronicles\n\nArea 51: The Dreamland Chronicles is a 1997 non-fiction book about Area 51 in Nevada by David Darlington.\n\nA review in the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\" called the book \"a real service\" for readers interested in the early history of the site, but also scolded the author for entertaining \"alien seekers, the tragically abducted, and self-appointed aliens ... saucer nuts\" whose record \"drown[s] out any legitimate inquiry into how much secrecy and how large a restricted compound the government needs to conduct black-budget activities\". The A.V. Club called it \"a definitive work on the place and its hold on our collective psyche\" and \"wonderfully even-handed\" towards Ufologists who speculate about \"the physically impossible\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21634658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21634658", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Japan", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Japan\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Japan begins after a few mentions of the country by `Abdu'l-Bahá first in 1875. Japanese contact with the religion came from the West when was living in Honolulu, Hawaii in 1902 converted; the second being .\n\nIn 1914 two Bahá'ís, George Jacob Augur and Agnes Alexander, and their families, pioneered to Japan. Alexander would live some 31 years off and on in Japan until 1967 when she left for the last time. The first Bahá'í convert on Japanese soil was in 1915. `Abdu'l-Bahá undertook several trips in 1911-1912 and met Japanese travelers in Western cities, in Paris, London, and New York. ‘Abdu'l-Bahá met Fujita in Chicago and Yamamoto in San Francisco.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, in 1916-1917 compiled together in the book titled \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\" but which was not presented in the United States until 1919. Fujita would serve between the World Wars first in the household of ‘Abdu'l-Bahá and then of Shoghi Effendi. In 1932 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in Tokyo and reelected in 1933. In all of Japan there were 19 Bahá'ís.\n\nIn 1937 Alexander went on Bahá'í pilgrimage to return years later. In 1938 Fujita was excused from his services in Haifa out of fears for his safety during World War II and returned to Japan until 1956. In 1942, back in the United States, the Yamamoto family lived at a relocation camp during the war. Bahá'í Americans associated with the American Occupation Forces reconnected the Japanese Bahá'í community — Michael Jamir found Fujita by 1946 and Robert Imagire helped re-elect the assembly in Tokyo in 1948. In 1963 the statistics of Bahá'í communities showed 13 assemblies and other smaller groups.\n\nIn 1968 Japanese Bahá'ís began to travel outside Japan. In 1971 the first residents of Okinawa converted to the religion. In 1991 the community organized an affiliate of the Association for Bahá'í Studies in Japan which has since held annual conferences, published newsletters, and published and coordinated academic work across affiliates. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 15650 Bahá'ís in 2005 while the CIA World Factbook estimated about 12000 Japanese Bahá'ís in 2006.\n\nThe first mention of Japan in Bahá'í literature is with the Secret of Divine Civilization written by `Abdu'l-Bahá in 1875. It was written to try to enlighten Persia. It says:\n…the government of Japan was in the beginning subject to and under the protection of China, and that now for some years, Japan has opened its eyes and adopted the techniques of contemporary progress and civilization, promoting sciences and industries of use to the public, and striving to the utmost of their power and competence until public opinion was focused on reform. This government has currently advanced to such a point that, although its population is only one-sixth, or even one-tenth, that of China, it has recently challenged the latter government, and China has finally been forced to come to terms. Observe carefully how education and the arts of civilization bring honor, prosperity, independence and freedom to a government and its people.\n\nBahá'ís moved across Asia from the turn of the century. Bahá'ís were in Shanghai in 1902, Philippines by 1944, Taiwan and Canton in 1923, and Macau in 1953. However, for the Japanese contact with the religion came from the West. Kanichi Yamamoto was living in Honolulu, Hawaii in 1902 where a Bahá'í, Elizabeth Muther, introduced him to the religion. Yamamoto wrote a letter to `Abdu'l-Bahá and enters the history books as the first Japanese Bahá'í — the second and third being Saichiro Fujita and Kenzo Torikai. The first Bahá'ís to visit Japan were Mason Remey and Howard C. Struve on December 27, 1909 who addressed an audience at a Tokyo YMCA. D. T. Suzuki's wife, Beatrice, had multiple contacts with the Bahá'ís both in America and in Japan and was for a time considered a Bahá'í. Bernard Leach lived in Japan from 1909-1920 working on the Mingei arts and converted to the religion in 1940. Leach received awards for his continued work in Japanese folk arts in the 1960s and 70s. A few other Bahá'ís traveled through Japan in 1911 and 1914. But in 1914 two Bahá'ís, George Jacob Augur and Agnes Alexander, and their families, pioneered to Japan. Alexander would live some 31 years off and on in Japan until 1967 when she left for the last time and much of her work would be through Esperantists and connections with the blind community of Japan. Meetings for the public were set up and talks and interviews were given including to Esperantist audiences. The first Bahá'í convert on Japanese soil was Kikutaro Fukuta in 1915, followed by the blind Russian youth Vasily Eroshenko who later drifted to communism. Also in 1915, Martha Root arrived for the first time in Japan and Tokujiro Torii converted to the religion. Torrii later served as president of the Japanese Blind Association and received an Imperial Citation, the Medal of the Third Order, for his work on behalf of the blind.\nCities where Bahá'ís traveled in this early phase include Kobe, Kyoto, Tokyo, Hiroshima and this period also saw the first observances of the Bahá'í Holy Days of Naw Ruz and the Declaration of the Báb. In the spring of 1916 Fukuta and Eroshenko made the first contributions towards raising the first Bahá'í House of Worship being raised in Wilmette, Illinois, USA. In the summer of 1916 Eroshenko took a copy of Some Answered Questions with him when he traveled to Siam and Burma. The first Japanese woman to convert to the religion was Yuri Mochizuki in 1919. Shortly before the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá in 1921, Alexander and Oh Sang Sun made a trip from Japan to Korea, then under Japanese rule, for the first entry of the religion in that country. Alexander also spent time with Shibusawa Eiichi. Elsewhere Fujita served as a secretary to Bahiyyih Khanum in communicating the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá in late 1921. At a time when women speaking in public was rare, two women, a Miss Mochizuki and Haruko Mori, spoke at the memorial service of the death of 'Abdu'l-Bahá held in Japan.\n\nThe Japanese Ambassador to Spain was staying in Paris when `Abdu'l-Bahá stayed there on his 1911 trip to the west and they met and had a prolonged conversation. In London in 1912, ‘Abdu'l-Bahá came in contact with the President of the Japan Women's University. It was this occasion that 'Abdu'l-Bahá wrote the only prayer he wrote for the Japanese. It says:\n\nO God! The darkness of contention, strife and warfare between the religious, the nations and the people has beclouded the horizon of Reality and hidden the heaven of Truth! The world is in need of the light of Guidance! Therefore, O God! Confer Thy favor so that the Sun of Reality may illumine the East and the West.\n\nIn New York he met several Japanese as well. On September 12, ‘Abdu'l-Bahá reached Chicago. Fujita attempted to connect with ‘Abdu'l-Bahá at Cleveland but caught up with him in Chicago. Fujita would accompany ‘Abdu'l-Bahá across many American cities including Kenosha, Wisconsin, St. Paul and Minneapolis, Minnesota, Denver and Glenwood Springs, Colorado, Salt Lake City, Utah, and San Francisco and Stanford, California - Fujita would serve between the World Wars first in the household of ‘Abdu'l-Bahá and then of Shoghi Effendi. On October 22, ‘Abdu'l-Bahá reached San Francisco where he met Yamamoto who arranged for a presentation among a Japanese audience in Oakland.\n\nIn all `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote 18 tablets to Japanese living in Japan, and the last one was to the Koreans dated November 5, 1921. Eighteen of the nineteen Tablets were addressed to young people, and seven of these to girls of Tokyo. It is remarkable that the only Tablets to women in Asia were to three Japanese girls: Yuri Mochizuki who received three Tablets, Haruko Mori and Mikae Komatsu, each received one, and the group of girls who were sent two Tablets. ‘Abdu'l-Bahá made mentioned especially to the blind of Japan. He addressed five Tablets to three blind men.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917 suggesting Bahá'ís take the religion to many places; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan but were delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919. One tablet says in part:\nO that I could travel, even though on foot and in the utmost poverty, to these regions, and, raising the call of “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá” in cities, villages, mountains, deserts and oceans, promote the divine teachings! This, alas, I cannot do. How intensely I deplore it! Please God, ye may achieve it.…\n\n…if some teachers go to other islands and other parts, such as the continent of Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania, also to Japan, Asiatic Russia, Korea, French Indochina, Siam, Straits Settlements, India, Ceylon and Afghanistan, most great results will be forthcoming.\n\nThe Bahá'ís in Japan were witness to, and participated in the relief effort of, the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake. Moneys and letters of concern arrived from Bahá'ís in New York, Haifa, Kenosha, Wi., Brooklyn, Chicago, Somerville, Mass., Montreal, Canada among other places spreading encouragement and reporting on or actually sending funds Bahá'ís and others had marshaled for the relief effort. In 1927 Siegfried Schopflocher visited Japan and reported the religion was firmly established and progressing.\nIn 1932 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in Tokyo. There was a preliminary election that corrected when Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, specified rules that needed to be followed for the election. The members of the community of Tokyo were (former Rev.) Sempo Ito; Yuri Mochizuki Furukawa; Otoe Murakami; Kanae Takeshita; Mr. Y. Kataoka (first name unknown); Keiji Sawada; Agnes Alexander; Antoinette Naganuma; Mr. Nakanishi (first name unknown); Hidehiko Matsuda; and Keiko Eito. The first nine names were elected to the provisional Local Spiritual Assembly but the later official election changed adding Mr. Matsuda, who took the place of Mr. Y. Kataoka, who asked to be relieved. The members included five women and two who were blind. The assembly was reelected in 1933. In all of Japan there were 19 Bahá'ís. In 1916 Daiun Inouye was a young Buddhist priest when he first heard of the religion. In 1932 he translated Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era and it was printed the following year. In 1937 he resigned from the priesthood and wrote that he would be free to spend his time propagating the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nStarting in the 1920s, Alexander began various trips and coming contact with public figures in Japan and some publications reached a broader audience. In 1923 Alexander first visited Hong Kong and returned on several more over the next thirty years. Alexander also accompanied Root on one of her return trips to the area - this time on a trip to China and Alexander made contacts among the Chinese, especially from Canton and Shanghai, who visited Japan as well. In 1928 seven specially bound volumes of Bahá'í books were presented for the coronation of the emperor Hirohito and were part of his library and at the Enthronement Ceremonies of His Majesty the Emperor of Japan three foreigners were invited to speak, including Alexander as a Bahá'í representative. In 1932 Esperantist Tadashi Watanabe invited Alexander to talk about the Bahá'í Faith and Esperanto first in Tomakomai, and then the then-village of Yamabe, Hokkaido.\n\nIn 1937 Alexander went on Bahá'í pilgrimage and, aware of the impossibility of returning to Japan during the Second World War, traveled to other countries. In 1938 Fujita was excused from his services in Haifa out of fears for his safety during the war and returned to Japan until circa 1956. In 1942 back in the United States the Yamamoto family lived at a relocation camp during the war. Two children — one from Nagasaki and one from Hiroshima — later converted to the religion and have shared their story.\n\nBahá'í Americans associated with the American Occupation Forces reconnected the Japanese Bahá'í community: They were Michael Jamir, Lorraine Wright, and Robert Imagire. Jamir in particular undertook trips to find Torii and Fujita circa 1945-6. Imagire arrived in 1947 and was given an address where Alexander had left her printed materials. He found the only building still standing after the bombing held 200 copies of \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" in Japanese. In 1948 Imagire helped re-elect the assembly in Tokyo. While all the Japanese members were new Bahá'ís and eventually drifted into inactivity, the assembly was continually re-elected and remains today.\n\nAlexander was able to return to Japan in 1950 after being sponsored by Lt. J.C. Davenport (USAF) and in 1951 four American pioneers were elected to the Tokyo Local Spiritual Assembly. The Japanese membership then was Miss Ichige, Mr. Kadota, Mr. Horioka, Miss Nakanishi, and Mr. Yoshino. The Americans were Alexander, Lane Skelton, Barbara Davenport, and Imagire. The assembly designated goal areas to take the religion — Yokohama, Sendai, Osaka, Hiroshima, and Kofu — and established eight committees with attention ranging from re-translating \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" to coordinating membership record keeping and the arrival of Persian pioneers. The Moghbel and Katirai Persian families arrived in 1953. In 1954 the community was 52 adults — 10 were Americans and 13 were Persians. Barbara Sims, one of the American pioneers, was elected to the Local Spiritual Assembly of Tokyo in 1954 and served for many years on that body and authored several books on the history of the Bahá'í Faith in Japan.\n\nThe first center owned by the Bahá'í assemblies in Japan was in Amagasaki in 1953. The Tokyo assembly bought a house; it became the second Bahá'í Center in 1954. The third one was in Osaka. In 1956 there were eight assemblies in Japan and the community had marshaled resources to publish a Japanese language Bahá'í \"Geppo\" (monthly newspaper) which was also read in Korea. In 1957 Sims was elected to the first regional National Spiritual Assembly of North East Asia, and Alexander was appointed as one of the Hands of the Cause, a position which she held the rest of her lifetime.\n\nIn 1963 the statistics of Bahá'í communities showed 13 assemblies, 9 groups of Bahá'ís, and 31 isolated Bahá'ís.\n\nToshio Suzuki became a Bahá'í near 1963 and would later serve on the National Spiritual Assembly of Japan and his brother, Hideya Suzuki, serve as the first Japanese Continental Counselor. In 1965 Alexander fell and broke her hip. She convalesced in Japan for two years and returned to Hawaii where she died in 1971. The first Bahá'í Cemetery — a division of a larger cemetery — was established in 1958. The first burial there was in 1964 and represented a departure from socio-Buddhist norm of cremation. In 1968 Masaaki Ushibata traveled outside Japan for Bahá'í purposes and in 1975 became the first Japanese pioneer — to the Eastern Caroline Islands. In 1969 the Japanese Bahá'ís arrange for the first National Youth Conference in Jogashima. In 1971 the first residents of Okinawa converted to the religion. There were some marriages between Japanese Bahá'ís and other nationalities which sometimes faced racism in Japanese society.\n\nAmerican pioneers continued to play a role in Japan into the 1990s. In 1974 Sims was elected to the first National Spiritual Assembly of Japan, serving until 1993. Sims also had contact with Ainu Bahá'ís including notably chief Takeichi Moritake (1902–1976) and son Kazutomo Umegae (1924–1992).\n\nSince its inception, the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived.\n\nWorldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. The modern Bahá'í community of Japan has grown and developed strength in diverse interests. The Japanese census does not have questions regarding religion however the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 15,700 Bahá'ís in 2005 while the CIA World Factbook estimated about 12,000 members in 2006. In 2005 there were 31 delegates to the National Convention to elect the National Spiritual Assembly of Japan.\n\nIn 2000 Japan rose in support of a United Nations human rights resolution about concern over the Bahá'ís in Iran as well as taking steps to further document conditions.\n\nIn 1991 the community organized an affiliate of the Association for Bahá'í Studies in Japan which has since held annual conferences, published newsletters, and published and coordinated academic work across affiliates. In the 1999 \"Yerrinbool Report on Scholarship\" various Japanese academics are noted: Landegg Academy had a faculty member, Seinan Gakiun, from the University in Japan, Nozomu Sonda published a revision to an introductory book in Japanese, Mary Noguchi who chaired the 8th conference, Tsunoi Hiroshi who chaired the 2008 conference, Sandra Sims Fotos chaired several of the conferences, physicist Stephen R. Friberg, several of whom also worked on the University Club Committee. The conferences have been held in places like Waseda University, Sapporo, Tokyo, Yokohama, Yamaguchi, and Kyoto. Several Bahá'ís work with the University of Maryland University College in Asia (UMUC-Asia). Ruth Lattimore is the mathematics academic director living in Yokota base in Tokyo. Irene Chung is assistant to UMUC-Asia’s area director for Korea and was a Continental Counselor for Korea, Japan, and Thailand. Richard Dowling is an associate professor for UMUC–Asia teaching modern American and European history living in mostly in South Korea, but with some time in Guam, Japan, and Australia. Nicholas Mayer is an elementary school teacher at Nagoya International School in Japan.\n\nThere are a number of Bahá'í artists who have done work who lived in Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAmbassador Ryozo Kato spoke on 4 September 2005 after a week-long celebration of the role played 100 years ago by a prominent US Bahá'í, Sarah Farmer, who held a conference in 1904 that closed with a program dedicated to the resolution of the Russo-Japanese War by the 1905 Treaty of Portsmouth.\n\nRepresentatives of Japanese Baha'i Community visited the Risshō Kōsei Kai headquarters in Tokyo where the President Nichiko Niwano and the representatives spoke of the importance of interreligious cooperation. The Filipino Bahá'ís hosted a regional conference in 2008 including over 300 Bahá'ís from Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Macau, Caroline Islands, Mariana Islands, and Marshall Islands attending.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1544664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1544664", "title": "Bhagavad-Gītā As It Is", "text": "Bhagavad-Gītā As It Is\n\nThe Bhagavad-Gītā As It Is is a translation and commentary of the \"Bhagavad Gita\", by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, founder of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), commonly known as the Hare Krishna movement. The \"Bhagavad Gita\" emphasizes a path of devotion toward the personal God, Krishna. It was first published in 1968 by Macmillan Publishers and is now available in nearly sixty languages and is primarily promoted and distributed by followers of ISKCON. Prabhupada's translation and commentaries of the \"Bhagavad-Gītā As It Is\" is considered by adherents to the ISKCON movement and many Vedic scholars to be one of the finest literary works of Vaishnavism translated into English.\n\nFor each verse, the book (in complete editions) includes the Devanagari script, a Latin transliteration, word-for-word Sanskrit-English meanings, and English translation. An extensive commentary by Prabhupada is given throughout, based on various Gaudiya Vaishnava works, including: Ramanuja Bhasya (in Sanskrit); Sarartha-varsini-tika (Sanskrit) by Visvanatha Chakravarti Thakura; Gita-bhusana-tika (Sanskrit) by Baladeva Vidyabhushana; and Bhaktivinode Thakur's Bengali commentaries.\n\nThe narrative in the Bhagavad-Gītā concerns a dialogue between Lord Krishna and a mighty warrior named Arjuna on the battlefield of Kurukshetra. In the narrative, Lord Krishna has descended to earth to aid Arjuna in his battle against Kauravas and their army. Lord Krishna assumes the role of Arjuna's chariot driver and aids him in the battle and reveals to Arjuna several divine truths about human existence in the material plane, the true nature of the supreme personality of God, and the method of eternal progression and release from the earthly cycles of death and rebirth through the practice of bhakti yoga. The narrative teaches that achieving Krishna consciousness and attaining the inner realization that all life is a manifestation of the eternal energy of Krishna will release an individual soul from the cycles of reincarnation and death and rebirth. The narrative culminates with Krishna revealing to Arjuna his universal form which encompasses all life and material existence. One notable event in the narrative is when Arjuna gazes at the opposing army of demons and sees his relatives fighting for the demonic army, he is filled with grief and remorse that he must kill his own flesh and blood. In reply, Krishna reveals his true form to Arjuna and tells him that it does not matter if his relatives die in the battle today because they will eventually die anyway, and that Arjuna's duty to the supreme lord and his own self realization transcends his material attachments to his relatives. The central message of the text is that nothing ever truly dies and that all life is in a continual cycle of death and rebirth, and that one has a duty to the process of self realization and progression in order to manifest the supreme personality of God and achieve Krishna Consciousness, thereby escaping the eternal cycles of death and rebirth. \n\nThe book advocates the path of \"bhakti\" toward Krishna, who is seen as the Supreme Personality of Godhead Himself. It establishes that Krishna is not an incarnation, He is the cause of all causes. He is the source of all incarnations. He is even the cause of Vishnu. It teaches the loving service of the transcendental personality of the Lord.\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita As It Is by Prabhupada has been praised by scholars and theologians for providing the Western reader the unique opportunity of seeing how a Krishna devotee interprets his own texts and for giving insights into the original and highly convincing ideas of the Gauḍiya Vaisnava school.\n\n\"Bhagavad-Gītā As It Is\" is written in the tradition of Gaudiya Vaishnavism. Followers of the Vedas regard the \"Bhagavad Gita\" as the essence of the Vedic knowledge and the Upanishads and consider the book authoritative and literally true.\n\nSome abridged editions of the Gita come with prefaces by Allen Ginsberg and Thomas Merton. The 1972 Macmillan \"Complete Edition\" includes a Foreword by Professor Edward C. Dimock, Jr. from the University of Chicago.\n\nA. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, the author, arrived in the United States in 1965. By 1966 he had founded the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) in a storefront at 26 2nd. Ave New York City. At that time he was very anxious to publish his Bhagavad-gita As It Is. Macmillan Publishers agreed to publish a 400-page version in 1968 but the original manuscript was over 1000 pages. So the first Macmillan edition was known as the Abridged Edition.\n\nBy 1972 the sales of the Abridged edition were substantial and Macmillan agreed to publish the \"Complete Edition\".\n\nIn 1983, the Bhaktivedanta Book Trust (BBT) published the \"Revised and Enlarged\" edition containing at least one thousand substantial changes. The changes were justified as being 'closer to the original manuscript'. This 'Revised and Enlarged' edition has been very controversial among the followers of Srila Prabhupada. In 2001 Krishna Books Inc (KBI) who are licensed by the BBT reprinted the 1972 \"Complete Edition\" so now both the \"Complete Edition\" and the \"Revised and Enlarged\" edition are available.\n\nPrabhupada's translation is sold outside India due to the efforts of Hare Krishna members on the streets, in airports, and in other public places. The book also enjoys brisk sales within India. It has been published in fifty-nine languages, including French, German, Danish, Spanish, Dutch, Portuguese, Italian, Swedish, Russian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Latvian, Ukrainian, Macedonian, Bulgarian, Hungarian, Georgian, Croatian, Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, Nepali, Hindi, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Odia, Tamil, and Telugu.\n\nSocially, \"Bhagavad-Gītā As It Is\" suggests a way of life derived from the \"Manu Smriti\" and other books of Hindu religious and social law and applied for the contemporary Western world. In this way of life, ideal human society is described as being divided into four Varnas (\"brahmana\" - intellectuals, \"kshatriya\" - administrators, \"vaishya\" – merchants, \"shudra\" - workers). Within his writings Prabhupada supports the view that one becomes a member of one of the Varnas not by birth but by one's personal qualities (guna) and the type of work (karma) one actually performs (BG 4.13). Society is described as best ruled by a benevolent \"kshatriya\" sovereign, who is to govern according to rules set by scriptural tradition and preserved by self-controlled and pure-hearted spiritual leaders (\"brahmanas\"). The \"kshatriya\" sovereign (like courts in many democratic states) may also order capital punishment.\n\nBrahmanas, elders, women, children and cows are said to deserve special protection, with animals, especially cows, being preserved from slaughter at all costs. Prabhupada encourages readers to adopt a lacto-vegetarian diet and gives agriculture as the ideal economic basis of society. Ultimately Prabhupada gives the conclusion that society should be \"Krishna conscious\"—enlightened by devotion (\"bhakti\") to Krishna (God).\n\nIn June 2011, a group linked to the Christian Orthodox Church had demanded a ban owing to an alleged \"conflict of interests\" between the Russian followers of Krishna and local authorities in the Siberian region of Tomsk. The case was dismissed by a federal judge on 28 December 2011.\n\nRussian ambassador Alexander Kadakin condemned the \"madmen\" seeking the ban, underlining that Russia was a secular country:\n\n15,000 Indians in Moscow, and followers of ISKCON in Russia asked the Indian government to intervene to resolve the issue. The move triggered strong protests by Members of Parliament as they wanted the Indian Government to take up the matter strongly with Russia. The final hearing in the Tomsk district court was then scheduled on 28 December, with the court agreeing to seek the opinion of the Russian Ombudsman on human rights in the Tomsk region as well as Indologists from Moscow and St Petersburg. The prosecutor's office filed an appeal against the judge's ruling, but on March 21, 2012, the appeal court upheld the decision of the lower court, rejecting the prosecutor's petition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56473868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56473868", "title": "Bob Roth", "text": "Bob Roth\n\nBob Roth (born October 10, 1950) is an American Transcendental Meditation (TM) teacher and author. He is the CEO of the David Lynch Foundation and a director of the Center for Leadership Performance.\n\nBob Roth was born in Washington, D.C., U.S.A. He is the son of Dr. Merall Roth, a radiologist, and Susan Roth, a teacher. He attended Redwood High School in Larkspur, California, and graduated from the University of California at Berkeley .\n\nRoth has taught TM for over 40 years. His students include thousands of at-risk students in underserved schools, military veterans, women and children who have experienced domestic violence, and numerous celebrities like Tom Hanks, Oprah Winfrey, Hugh Jackman, Martin Scorsese, Katy Perry, Russell Brand, and others.\n\nRoth learned TM at the Berkeley TM Center in 1968. In 1972, he took a semester off college to travel to Spain and study with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. After six month of study, Roth became a TM teacher himself.\n\nRoth is the author of \"Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's Transcendental Meditation\" and \"Strength in Stillness\". On his Sirius XM radio show, \"Success without Stress\", Roth sits down with prominent meditators to discuss their practices and the influence of Transcendental Meditation on their lives.\n\nRoth resides in New York, N.Y. He has three siblings: his sister, Ellen, and brothers Bill and Tom. Having grown up in the San Francisco Bay Area, Roth is a fan of the San Francisco Giants and Golden State Warriors. He idolized Willie Mays in his youth and is a big fan of Stephen Curry today.\n\nIn 2015, Roth was the recipient of the Disruptor Award from the Tribeca Disruptive Innovation Awards for David Lynch Foundation’s innovative work serving at-risk populations.\n\n"}
{"id": "5530804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5530804", "title": "Boudhanath", "text": "Boudhanath\n\nBoudhanath (, also called the \"Khāsa Chaitya\", Newari \"Khāsti\", Standard Tibetan \"Jarung Khashor\", ) is a stupa in Kathmandu, Nepal. Located about from the center and northeastern outskirts of Kathmandu, the stupa's massive mandala makes it one of the largest spherical stupas in Nepal.\n\nThe Buddhist stupa of Boudha Stupa dominates the skyline; it is one of the largest unique structure's stupas in the world. The influx of large populations of refugees from Tibet has seen the construction of over 50 gompas (Tibetan convent) around Boudha. As of 1979, Boudha Stupa is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Along with Swayambhu, it is one of the most popular tourist sites in the Kathmandu area.\n\nThe Stupa is on the ancient trade route from Tibet which enters the Kathmandu Valley by the village of Sankhu in the northeast corner, passes by Boudha Stupa to the ancient and smaller stupa of Chā-bahī named Charumati Stupa (often called \"Little Boudhanath\"). It then turns directly south, heading over the Bagmati River to Lalitpur - thus bypassing the main city of Kathmandu (which was a later foundation). Tibetan merchants have rested and offered prayers here for many centuries. When refugees entered Nepal from Tibet in the 1950s, many decided to live around Boudhanath. The Stupa is said to entomb the remains of Kassapa Buddha.\n\nAccording to the history of Nepal, the palace of King Bikramaditya (Licchavi King) once stood where the Narayanhity Palace currently stands. King Vikramaditya instructed that a Dhunge Dhara should be built in the southern part of palace courtyard. But there was no sign of water from the Dhunge Dhara, for which the king consulted Astrologers. Astrologers suggested that a Human sacrifice with a male candidate having \"Battis-Lakshanas\", or \"thirty-two perfections\" should be performed. \n\nOnly the king himself and his two princes were suitable candidates. So, the king decided to sacrifice himself and ordered one of his sons to sacrifice him so that sign of water could be seen at the Dhunge Dhara. According to local mythology, during the time of sacrifice, the head flew off to a place nearby Sankhu Bajrayogini Temple. \n\nThe prince then with a regretful heart, flew a hen from the top of Bajrayogini and decided to construct a Stupa where the hen landed. The hen landed in the place where Boudhanath Stupa is currently standing. During the same time, the place was struck with a Drought and the people managed to abate the scarcity of water by collecting the droplets of dew. So, the place was named Khāsti as in Nepal Bhasa, \"khas\" refers to dew and \"ti\" refers to drops. \n\nLater His Majesty Government of Nepal renamed the place from Khasti to Boudhanath in order to reflect Hinduism as being the Hindu Nation.\n\nThe \"Gopālarājavaṃśāvalī\" says Boudhanath was founded by the Nepalese Licchavi king Śivadeva (c. 590-604 CE); though other Nepalese chronicles date it to the reign of King Mānadeva (464-505 CE). Tibetan sources claim a mound on the site was excavated in the late 15th or early 16th century and the bones of King Aṃshuvarmā 605-621 were discovered there.\n\nHowever, the emperor Trisong Detsen (r. 755 to 797) of the Tibetan Empire is also traditionally associated with the construction of the Boudhanath Stupa. The Yolmo Shakya Zangpo from Helambu resurrected Boudhanath.\n\n \n\nThe April 2015 Nepal earthquake badly damaged Boudhanath Stupa, severely cracking the spire. As a result, the whole structure above the dome, and the religious relics it contained had to be removed, which was completed by the end of October 2015. The reconstruction began on 3 November 2015 with the ritual placement of a new central pole or \"life tree\" for the stupa at the top of the dome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9691786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9691786", "title": "Buddhism in Iceland", "text": "Buddhism in Iceland\n\nBuddhism in Iceland has existed since the 1990s after immigration from countries with Buddhist populations, mainly Thailand. As of 2008, there are three Buddhist organizations in Iceland officially recognized as religious organizations by the Icelandic government. The oldest and largest is the Buddhist Association of Iceland, a Theravada group, which was recognized in 1996 and had 880 members in 2010. Another group, Zen in Iceland – Night Pasture, a Zen group, was recognized in 1999 and had 75 members in 2010. The most recent group is, SGI in Iceland, a Soka Gakkai group, which was recognized in 2008 with 135 members. Together, these three organizations represent approximately 0.3% of the population of Iceland. This is more than the Islamic groups but less than the pagan groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071928", "title": "Chandela", "text": "Chandela\n\nThe Chandelas of Jejakabhukti were a royal dynasty in Central India. They ruled much of the Bundelkhand region (then called \"Jejakabhukti\") between the 9th and the 13th centuries.\n\nThe Chandelas initially ruled as feudatories of the Gurjara-Pratiharas of Kanyakubja (Kannauj). The 10th century Chandela ruler Yashovarman became practically independent, although he continued to acknowledge the Pratihara suzerainty. By the time of his successor Dhanga, the Chandelas had become a sovereign power. Their power rose and declined as they fought battles with the neighbouring dynasties, especially the Paramaras of Malwa and the Kalachuris of Tripuri. From the 11th century onwards, the Chandelas faced raids by the northern Muslim dynasties, including the Ghaznavids and the Ghurids. The Chandela power effectively ended around the beginning of the 13th century, following Chahamana and Ghurid invasions.\n\nThe Chandelas are well known for their art and architecture, most notably for the temples at their original capital Khajuraho. They also commissioned a number of temples, water bodies, palaces and forts at other places, including their strongholds of Ajaigarh, Kalinjar and their later capital Mahoba.\n\nThe origin of the Chandelas is obscured by mythical legends. The epigraphic records of the dynasty, as well as contemporary texts such as \"Balabhadra-vilasa\" and \"Prabodha-chandrodaya\", suggest that the Chandelas belonged to the legendary Lunar dynasty (\"Chandravansha\"). A 954 CE Khajuraho inscription states that the dynasty's first king Nannuka was a descendant of sage Chandratreya, who was a son of Atri. A 1002 CE Khajuraho inscription gives a slightly different account, in which Chandratreya is mentioned as a son of Indu (the Moon) and a grandson of Atri. The 1195 CE Baghari inscription and the 1260 CE Ajaygadh inscription contain similar mythical accounts. The \"Balabhadra-vilasa\" also names Atri among the ancestors of the Chandelas. Another Khajuraho inscription describes the Chandela king Dhanga as a member of the Vrishni clan of the Yadavas (who also claimed to be part of the Lunar dynasty).\n\nThe later medieval texts include Chandelas among the 36 Rajput clans. These include \"Mahoba-Khanda\", \"Varna Ratnakara\", \"Prithviraj Raso\" and \"Kumarapala-charita\". The \"Mahoba-Khanda\" legend of the dynasty's origin goes like this: Hemaraja, a priest of the Gaharwar king of Benares, had a beautiful daughter named Hemavati. Once, while Hemavati was bathing in a pond, the moon god Chandra saw her and made love to her. Hemavati was worried about the dishonour of being an unwed mother, but Chandra assured her that their son would become a great king. This child was the dynasty's progenitor Chandravarma. Chandra presented him with a philosopher's stone and taught him politics. The dynasty's own records do not mention Hemavati, Hemaraja or Indrajit. Such legends appear to be later bardic inventions. In general, the \"Mahoba-Khanda\" is a historically unreliable text.\n\nThe British indologist V. A. Smith theorized that the Chandelas were of either Bhar or Gond origin. Some other scholars including R. C. Majumdar also supported this theory. The Chandelas worshipped Maniya, a tribal goddess, whose temples are located at Mahoba and Maniyagadh. Besides, they have been associated with places that are also associated with Bhars and Gonds. Also, Rani Durgavati, whose family claimed Chandela descent married a Gond chief of Garha-Mandla. Historian R. K. Dikshit does not find these arguments convincing: he argues that Maniya was not a tribal deity. Also, the dynasty's association with Gond territory is not necessarily indicative of a common descent: the dynasty's progenitor may have been posted as a governor in these territories. Finally, Durgavati's marriage to a Gond chief can be dismissed as a one-off case.\n\nThe Chandelas were originally vassals of the Gurjara-Pratiharas. Nannuka (r. c. 831-845 CE), the founder of the dynasty, was the ruler of a small kingdom centered around Khajuraho.\n\nAccording to the Chandela inscriptions, Nannuka's successor Vakpati defeated several enemies. Vakpati's sons Jayashakti (Jeja) and Vijayashakti (Vija) consolidated the Chandela power. According to a Mahoba inscription, the Chandela territory was named \"Jejakabhukti\" after the Jayashakti. Vijayashakti's successor Rahila is credited with several military victories in eulogistic inscriptions. Rahila's son Harsha played an important role in restoring the rule of the Pratihara king Mahipala, possibly after a Rashtrakuta invasion or after Mahiapala's conflict with his step-brother Bhoja II.\n\nHarsha's son Yashovarman (r. c. 925-950 CE) continued to acknowledge the Pratihara suzerainty, but became practically independent. He conquered the important fortress of Kalanjara. A 953-954 CE Khajuraho inscription credits him with several other military successes, including against Gaudas (identified with the Palas), the Khasas, the Chedis (the Kalachuris of Tripuri), the Kosalas (possibly the Somavamshis), the Mithila (possibly a small tributary ruler), Malavas (identified with the Paramaras), the Kurus, the Kashmiris and the Gurjaras. These claims appear to be exaggerated, as similar claims of extensive conquests in northern India are also found in the records of the other contemporary kings such as the Kalachuri king Yuva-Raja and the Rashtrakuta king Krishna III. Yashovarman's reign marked the beginning of the famous Chandela-era art and architecture. He commissioned the Lakshmana Temple at Khajuraho.\n\nUnlike the earlier Chandela inscriptions, the records of Yashovarman's successor Dhanga (r. c. 950-999 CE) do not mention any Pratihara overlord. This indicates that Dhanga formally established the Chandela sovereignty. A Khajuraho inscription claims that the rulers of Kosala, Kratha (part of Vidarbha region), Kuntala, and Simhala listened humbly to the commands of Dhanga's officers. It also claims that the wives of the kings of Andhra, Anga, Kanchi and Raḍha resided in his prisons as a result of his success in wars. These appear to be eulogistic exaggerations by a court poet, but suggest that Dhanga did undertake extensive military campaigns. Like his predecessor, Dhanga also commissioned a magnificent temple at Khajuraho, which is identified as the Vishvanatha Temple.\n\nDhanga's successor Ganda appears to have retained the territory he inherited. His son Vidyadhara killed the Pratihara king of Kannauj (possibly Rajyapala) for fleeing his capital instead of fighting the Ghaznavid invader Mahmud of Ghazni. Mahmud later invaded Vidyadhara's kingdom; according to the Muslim invaders, this conflict ended with Vidyadhara paying tribute to Mahmud. Vidyadhara is noted for having commissioned the Kandariya Mahadeva Temple.\n\nThe Chandela art and architecture reached its zenith during this period. The Lakshmana Temple (c. 930–950 CE), the Vishvanatha Temple (c. 999-1002 CE) and the Kandariya Mahadeva Temple (c. 1030 CE) were constructed during the reigns of Yashovarman, Dhanga and Vidyadhara respectively. These Nagara-style temples are representative of the most fully developed style at Khajuraho.\n\nBy the end of Vidyadhara's reign, the Ghaznavid invasions had weakened the Chandela kingdom. Taking advantage of this, the Kalachuri king Gangeya-deva conquered eastern parts of the kingdom. Chandela inscriptions suggest that Vidyadhara's successor Vijayapala (r. c. 1035-1050 CE) defeated Gangeya in a battle. However, the Chandela power started declining during the Vijayapala's reign. The Kachchhapaghatas of Gwalior probably gave up their allegiance to the Chandelas during this period.\n\nVijayapala's elder son Devavavarman was subjugated by Gangeya's son Lakshmi-Karna. His younger brother Kirttivarman resurrected the Chandela power by defeating Lakshmi-Karna. Kirtivarman's son Sallakshanavarman achieved military successes against the Paramaras and the Kalachuris, possibly by raiding their territories. A Mau inscription suggests that he also conducted successful campaigns in the Antarvedi region (the Ganga-Yamuna doab). His son Jayavarman was of religious temperament and abdicated the throne after being tired of governance.\n\nJayavarman appears to have died heirless, as he was succeeded by his uncle Prithvivarman, the younger son of Kirttivarman. The Chandela inscriptions do not ascribe any military achievements to him; it appears that he was focused on maintaining the existing Chandela territories without adopting an aggressive expansionist policy.\n\nBy the time Prithvivarman's son Madanavarman (r. c. 1128–1165 CE) ascended the throne, the neighbouring Kalachuri and Paramara kingdoms had been weakened by enemy invasions. Taking advantage of this situation, Madanavarman defeated the Kalachuri king Gaya-Karna, and possibly annexed the northern part of the Baghelkhand region. However, the Chandelas lost this territory to Gaya-Karna's successor Narasimha. Madanavarman also captured the territory on the western periphery of the Paramara kingdom, around Bhilsa (Vidisha). This probably happened during the reign of the Paramara king Yashovarman or his son Jayavarman. Once again, the Chandelas could not retain the newly annexed territory for long, and the region was recaptured by Yashovarman's son Lakshmivarman.\n\nJayasimha Siddharaja, the Chaulukya king of Gujarat, also invaded the Paramara territory, which was located between the Chandela and the Chaulukya kingdoms. This brought him in conflict with Madanavarman. The result of this conflict appears to have been inconclusive, as records of both the kingdoms claim victory. A Kalanjara inscription suggests that Madanavarman defeated Jayasimha. On the other hand, the various chronicles of Gujarat claim that Jayasimha either defeated Madanavarman or extracted a tribute from him. Madanavarman maintained friendly relations with his northern neighbours, the Gahadavalas.\n\nMadanavarman's son Yashovarman II either did not rule, or ruled for a very short time. Madanavarman's grandson Paramardi-deva was the last powerful Chandela king.\n\nParamardi (reigned c. 1165-1203 CE) ascended the Chandela throne at a young age. While the early years of his reign were peaceful, around 1182-1183 CE, the Chahamana ruler Prithviraj Chauhan invaded the Chandela kingdom. According to the medieval legendary ballads, Prithviraj's army lost its way after a surprise attack by Turkic forces, and unknowingly camped at the Chandela capital Mahoba. This led to a brief conflict between the Chandelas and the Chauhans, before Prithviraj left for Delhi. Sometime later, Prithviraj invaded the Chandela kingdom and sacked Mahoba. Paramardi cowardly took shelter in the Kalanjara fort. The Chandela force, led by Alha, Udal and other generals, was defeated in this battle. According to the various ballads, Paramardi either committed suicide out of shame or retired to Gaya.\n\nPrithviraj Chauhan's raid of Mahoba is corroborated by his Madanpur stone inscriptions. However, there are several instances of historical inaccuracies in the bardic legends. For example, it is known that Paramardi did not retire or die immediately after the Chauhan victory. He restored the Chandela power, and ruled as a sovereign until around 1202-1203 CE, when the Ghurid governor of Delhi invaded the Chandela kingdom. According to \"Taj-ul-Maasir\", a chronicle of the Delhi Sultanate, Paramardi surrendered to the Delhi forces. He promised to pay tribute to the Sultan, but died before he could keep this promise. His dewan offered some resistance to the invading forces, but was ultimately subdued. The 16th century historian Firishta states that Paramardi was assassinated by his own minister, who disagreed with the king's decision to surrender to the Delhi forces.\n\nThe Chandela power did not fully recover from their defeat against the Delhi forces. Paramardi was succeeded by Trailokyavarman, Viravarman and Bhojavarman. The next ruler Hammiravarman (r. c. 1288-1311 CE) did not use the imperial title Maharajadhiraja, which indicates that the Chandela king had a lower status by his time. The Chandela power continued to decline because of the rising Muslim influence, as well as the rise of other local dynasties, such as the Bundelas, the Baghelas and the Khangars.\n\nHammiravarman was succeeded by Viravarman II, whose titles do not indicate a high political status. One minor branch of the family continued ruling Kalanjara: its ruler was killed by Sher Shah Suri's army in 1545 CE. Another minor branch ruled at Mahoba: Durgavati, one of its princesses married into the Gond royal family of Mandla. Some other ruling families also claimed Chandela descent (see Chandel).\n\nThe Chandelas are well known for their art and architecture. They commissioned a number of temples, water bodies, palaces and forts at various places. The most famous example of their cultural achievements are the Hindu and Jain temples at Khajuraho. Three other important Chandela strongholds were Jayapura-Durga (modern Ajaigarh), Kalanjara (modern Kalinjar) and Mahotsava-Nagara (modern Mahoba).\n\nOther smaller Chandela sites include Chandpur, Deogarh, Dudahi, Kakadeo and Madanpur.\n\n<mapframe text=\"Chandela territory, as indicated by the find spots of inscriptions issued during the Chandela reign\" width=\"400\" height=\"400\" zoom=\"5\" longitude=\"80.5\" latitude=\"25.5\">\n</mapframe>\nBased on epigraphic records, the historians have come up with the following list of Chandela rulers of Jejākabhukti (IAST names in brackets):\n\n"}
{"id": "24807322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24807322", "title": "Christianity in the Gambia", "text": "Christianity in the Gambia\n\nChristians in the Gambia constitute approximately 8 percent (~136,400) of the country's population (1,705,000 - 2009 est.)\n\nThe government did not establish a state religion, but the predominant religion is Islam, practised by approximately 90% of the country's population. Article 25 of the Constitution protects the rights of citizens to practise any religion that they choose.\n\nThe Christian community, situated mostly in the west and south of the country, is predominantly Roman Catholic; there are also several Protestant groups including Anglicans, Methodists, Baptists, Seventh-day Adventists, and various small evangelical denominations. In 1963 the Gambia Christian Council was formed as an ecumenical association of Roman Catholic, Anglican, and Methodist churches.\n\nIntermarriage between Muslims and Christians is common. In some areas, Islam and Christianity are syncretized with animism.\n\nIn 1931 from the Apostolic Vicariate of Senegambia was established Mission “sui iuris” of Gambia. In 1951 Mission was promoted as the Apostolic Prefecture of Bathurst, in 1957 promoted as Diocese of Bathurst in Gambia (renamed in 1974 as Diocese of Banjul).\n\nNow there are about 42,400 (~2.4%) Catholics in the Gambia. The Diocese of Banjul is divided into 56 parishes.\n\nBishop Robert Ellison is the present Catholic Bishop of the diocese of Banjul.\n\nThe Anglican Diocese of Gambia and the Rio Pongas was founded in 1935. John Daly was the first bishop of the new diocese. In 1951 five West African Anglican dioceses, including the Diocese of Gambia, were formed into the Church of the Province of West Africa. In 1985 from the Diocese of Gambia was separated the Diocese of Guinea and now the jurisdiction of Anglican Diocese of Gambia comprises the Republics of the Gambia, Senegal, and Cape Verde.\n\nIn 2000 the Church of the Province of West Africa adopted legislation permitting women priests, but only Liberia and the Gambia have passed enabling legislation and ordained women clergy.\n\nSolomon Tilewa Johnson, who died in 2014, was the first Gambian national to hold the post of Anglican Bishop of Gambia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30196087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30196087", "title": "Church of the Creator", "text": "Church of the Creator\n\nChurch of the Creator is a Christian-based faith organization headquartered in Ashland, Oregon. It grew from a church association established in 1969 as Grace House Prayer Ministry, Inc., Chartered on July 14, 1975. The name of the corporation was changed in 1976, restructured in 1977, now the TE-TA-MA Truth Foundation-Family Of URI, Inc., a California nonprofit public-benefit corporation. The Foundation, within public ministries, anchored through use, the name \"Church of the Creator\" first conceived in 1974. The Foundation registered the name Church of the Creator in Oregon in 1982.\n\nThe Foundation/Church is most notable for achieving protection of its registered trademark Church of the Creator® through legal proceedings within US Federal Courts, \"TE-TA-MA v World Church of The Creator\" and the Criminal Indictments, trials and convictions that were precipitated during and after the litigation. This notable litigation, US Court Of Appeals OPINIONs included review of \"name...genus\" of religions, constitutional rights, intellectual property rights, re-defining what is unacceptable, \"Vexatious litigation conduct.\"\n\nAt the time of the Complaint, THE PARTIES, 4. \"…Church Of The Creator is associated with ministries located in the United States in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin, as well as in Canada, South America and Europe.\"\n\nAfter a protracted legal battle, which culminated in a denied appeal to the United States Supreme Court, the Foundation was awarded sole usage of the name \"Church of the Creator,\" which had also been part of the name of the white supremacist group \"World Church of the Creator\". That racist group is now known as the \"Creativity Alliance\" and is not associated with the Oregon-based church.\n\nThe church is described in a dictionary of new religious movements as having a \"synthesis of New Age thought, Christianity, and Jewish mystical ideas, such as kabbalah and gemiatry. Particular emphasis is given to the archangel Michael and high priest Melchizedek\" and the goal of the church is unification of mankind \"with the highest truth and justice for all\".\n\nChryssides describes the church as having been founded in 1969 \"by Dr. Grace Marama URI (1932-2006) and her husband, the Rev. Dr. James Germain URI.\"\n\nAccording to Chryssides \"There is one creative source of all being, with which humanity must align so that all thoughts all things become the manifestation of heaven on earth. \"Love, Light and peace\" are three key values. It is believed that intergalactic communicators can be summoned to act on humanity's behalf. Of particular assistance is a \"tool of consciousness\" known as \"Divine Right Order®\" is explained as an acronym for \"Dedicated Individuals Viably Interconnecting New Endeavors; Redemptive Infusion God's Higher Truths; Overself Restoration Degeneration Eternally Redeemed.\"\nMembership of the COTC includes all people and is by self-recognition. A member is one who accepts the Sacred Mandate, affirming the oneness of the universe's creative source and the aim of achieving the Divine Right Order in all things, thus securing the alignment between heaven and earth.\"\n\nChurch Organization, Beliefs, through exhibits submitted to the US 7th Circuit Court were reviewed in detail. Judge Easterbrook in the opening statements of the Court Of Appeals OPINION: sets forth the \"Treatise Of Joining In Principal and Witness\", claim of membership described above by Cryssides, \"Sacred Mandate\" - Church Of The Creator® Supports the Family Unification of Mankind In All Aspects Of The Whole. We of Like Mind Join Harmoniously In Oneness, Knowing That There Is Only One Creator Source. The Many In One Dedicate Our Physical Embodiments To The God Expression In Form, Bringing Forth By Example To This Planet Earth Love, Light and Peace. Therefore, Once Decreeing DIVINE RIGHT ORDER® In All Thoughts-All Things, Our Universe Automatically Aligns Into Manifestation of Heaven On Earth. Through The Priesthood of Melchizedek We Are One In The Body Of Jesus Christ. As Above So Below.\" The Court further described this church as \"descriptive\" \"distinctive not generic\" stating \"\"Church of the Creator\" as a denominational name leaves ample options for other sects to distinguish themselves and achieve separate identities.\n\nCOTC's Principle and Practice, use of the Decree \"Divine Right Order®\" is defined within the Ascension Glossary, \"Stating Divine Right Order essentially means the evocation of the true spiritual law to be made present in all that governs time and space, and through one's own personal intent and consent, they are choosing the authority of Gods Natural Laws to be made manifested within their consciousness and throughout their creations. \nThe delineation that is being made when invoking Divine Right Order is made through the statement, \"not my will, but divine will\", which is deferring to the highest expression that is possible in every moment. This also means the comprehension that the person that is asking for divine right order is acting upon their own Self-Determination, and the Law of Intent, in so to resolve the authority problem between the Negative Ego and the higher relationship they have with their inner spirit and God expression. It is a choice that is being made to relinquish ones personal control and will, releasing perceptions of needs and desires, with the consent to defer to the natural laws in Divine Right Order.\"\n\nThe Concise Guide to Today's Religions and Spirituality, states: \"Church of the Creator, Grace Marama URI – Ashland, OR: A NEW AGE group founded in 1969 as Grace House Prayer Ministry after URI, in an altered state of consciousness, was ordained into the Order, Brotherhood, and Priesthood of Melchizedek by the archangel Michael. In the mid -1970's the name was changed to Church of the Creator. The group teaches that members should develop their CHRIST CONSCIOUSNESS and uplift humanity through the vibrational energy of the Feminine Principle. URI teaches that Jesus Christ is the Lifestream of Michael, and that the HOLY SPIRIT is the Divine Mother. In 1973 -74 the Cross released KARMA and allowed members to experience the New Birth.\"\nIn addition to California Charter and other US State Registrations as a foreign nonprofit corporation, the Foundation received U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling of non-profit status in 1978, and GEN-Group Tax Exemption Determination in 1985, including Church Of The Creator. It is also known as \"TE-TA-MA Truth Foundation - Family of URI Inc.\" and as Family of URI and Church of the Creator. As a church, it is not required to make annual financial filings.\n\nThe URI family included, of court records D'Angelica Mariam URI, James Germain URI, and Grace Marama URI.\n\nThe church holds registered trademarks for \"Church of the Creator\", for \"Divine Right Order\", for \"Human Software For Being\", and for \"URI\".\n\nIn addition to the USPTO, United States Patent and Trademark Office Registration, the Foundation has an Active Registered Trademark, \"Church Of The Creator®\" within the European Union Trademark Registration rules and procedures, completed July 17, 2001.\n\nSuffering from confusion in the public mind and being mistaken, blamed, as responsible for despicable acts of violence, racial hatred, murder, and the publicity associated to such acts, the Foundation initiated litigation to protect its ® Registered Trademark Church Of The Creator.® A Complaint for Trademark Infringement, was filed in the United States District Court For The Northern District of Illinois on May 2, 2002.\n\nWhile the Church of the Creator was headquartered in Ashland, Oregon, by 2000 it had ministries in 20 states, not including Illinois. It reportedly \"said the similar names and trademarks have left the mistaken impression that their church endorses [the Creativity Movement leader] Hale's racist messages.\" In 2002, the church, represented by Kirkland & Ellis, won an appeals court ruling, and further in 2003 obtained a district judge's ruling of $1,000 per day fine to be applied against the Creativity Movement group, because that group's websites still came up in Yahoo and other internet searches in violation of the trademark ruling. The substantial legal proceedings around the trademark concluded with a 7th Circuit Appeals Court in 2002; there was a routine denial of further appeal by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2003.\n\nCitizens Against Hate, Nicole Nicholes, December 4, 2005 summarizes the trademark litigation… \"This set the wheels in motion and caused Hale to seek the murder of Judge Joan Lefkow, the judge in the case. During that case, it was also determined that many \"Creators\" could be held responsible for the hefty fines that were imposed. Many of the members ran for cover as they didn't want to be responsible for paying the price of their involvement. .. That is a brief summary of a very dynamic laden situation with more twists and turns than a coal mine.\"\nThe Anti-Defamation League (ADL) through Chicago Regional Director Lonnie Nasatir recognized the Foundation stating, \"The recent trial and conviction of Bill White here in Chicago for his threats against the jury foreperson in the Matthew Hale trial gave us reason to consider the long and tangled web of events that ultimately led to this point. This inevitably included the work of you and your colleagues in defending your legal rights resulting eventually in the dismantling of what was, as you know, then the second largest neo-Nazi organization in the United States. Your efforts have had a positive ripple effect ever since then and the absence of this group has clearly enhanced the TE-TA-MA Foundation's stated goal of pursuing universal tolerance and social harmony….\"\nOn January 9, 2003, Matthew F. Hale was arrested and charged with attempting to direct security chief Anthony Evola to murder judge Joan Lefkow. Hale was found guilty of four of five counts (one count of solicitation of murder and three counts of obstruction of justice) on April 26, 2004; in April 2005, he was sentenced to 40 years in a Federal penitentiary.\n\nAccording to the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), \"After Hale was convicted of soliciting the murder of a federal judge in 2004 — and the group was ordered to change its name because of a ruling in a copyright [SIC - trademark] infringement trial — the once-formidable outfit now known as the Creativity Movement all but collapsed, leaving only weak remnants.\"\nFurther SPLC states \"..by far the most important threat to WCOTC came from a trademark complaint that was brought against Hale and the WCOTC by the TE-TA-MA Truth Foundation, a peace-loving, multicultural church in Oregon that supports \"the Family unification of Mankind.\"\nDec. 2, 2009, the US District Court, Northern District of California, reviewed issues directly relating to religious freedoms, constitutional issues, citing the Trademark Litigation. \"Plaintiff identifies himself as a member of World Church of the Creator (\"WCOTC\"). (Compl. at 3.) In 2002, WCOTC lost a trademark-infringement lawsuit to TE-TA-MA Truth Foundation-Family of URI, Inc., prohibiting WCOTC from continuing to use the name World Church of the Creator. TE-TA-MA Truth Foundation — Family of URI, Inc. v. World Church of Creator, 297 F.3d 662 (7th Cir. 2002). Defendants assert that WCOTC subsequently changed its name to \"Creativity.\" (MSJ at 4.) … For consistency, the Court will refer in this order to plaintiff's alleged religion as \"Creativity,\" to the associated overarching organization as the \"Creativity Movement,\" and to Creativity's adherents as \"Creators.\"… \" Here, as discussed above, this Court has found plaintiff's evidence insufficient to support a finding that his beliefs are based on anything other than \"purely secular considerations.\" See id. Accordingly, as plaintiff cannot meet his burden with respect to the issue of whether Creativity is a religion,…\" Maxine M. Chesney, District Judge.\nUS Federal Circuit Court review of \"What Constitutes a Religion?\" yields evidence of another \"ripple effect\" originating within the trademark litigation. HALE v. FEDERAL BUREAU OF PRISONS, (D CO, March 28, 2018) \"...Creativity Movement [fka World Church of the Creator] is not a religion for purposes of the Free Exercise Clause of the Constitution and RFRA.\" pg. 22 of 33, f. Conclusion; Chief Judge Marcia S. Krieger.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857308", "title": "Culture of Morocco", "text": "Culture of Morocco\n\nThe culture of Morocco reflects the Berber and Arab influences represented by its population. The majority of Morocco's population identifies as Berber and Arab. At least a third of the population speaks an Amazigh language. Following the Islamic conquests, Arab tribes came to Morocco and settled in the low regions, such as Tadla and Doukkala. For example, there are groups called Charkawa and Arbawa who settled in Morocco from Arabia. The Charkawa claimed to be descended from Umar ibn Al-Khattab, the second caliph of Islam.\n\nThe history of Moroccan literature started in the early Middle Ages. In the era of the Berber dynasties, coinciding with the flowering of Al-Andalus, there were several important Moroccan writers, especially in the fields of religion.\n\nMorocco is considered by some as an Arab-Amazigh country. Others insist on the Amazigh-African identity of Morocco.\n\nClassical Arabic and Tamazight are official language of Morocco. Classical Arabic rather than a mother tongue, and is used in a limited and formal socio-economic and cultural range of activities (like newspapers and official documents), in competition with French. The most common spoken languages of Morocco are Tamazight and Moroccan Arabic.\n\nLinguistically, Amazigh belongs to the Afro-Asiatic group, and has many variants. The three main varieties used in Morocco are Shilha, Central Atlas Tamazight and Riff (also called \"Tamazight\" by its speakers). Collectively, they are known as \"Shelha\" in Moroccan Arabic, and as \"Barbaria\" in the Classical Arabic used in the Middle East. The terms \"Barbar\" and \"Shelha\" are considered offensive by most Berber activists, who prefer the term \"Tamazigh\".\n\nShilha (also known locally as \"Soussia\") is spoken in southwest Morocco, in an area between Sidi Ifni in the south, Agadir in the north, and Marrakesh and the Draa/Sous valleys in the east. Central Atlas Tamazight is spoken in the Middle Atlas, between Taza, Khemisset, Azilal, and Errachidia. Riff is spoken in the Rif area of northern Morocco in towns like Nador, Al Hoceima, Ajdir, Tétouan, Taourirt, and Taza.\n\nMost Amazigh embraced Islam quickly, though their non-Arab ethnic and linguistic distinction has resisted the Arab-Islamic influence. Hundreds of Amazigh (Berber) associations have been created to defend their culture and identity in the last few decades in Morocco and Algeria. Newsstands and bookstores in all the major cities are filled with new Berber publications that provide articles and essays about the Amazigh culture and art. In 1994, the state-owned TV station RTM (now \"TVM\") started broadcasting a daily, 10-minute-long news bulletin in the 3 Berber dialects. Berber activists are repeatedly demanding a 50% share of broadcasting time in standardized Berber (Tamazight) on all state-owned TV channels. There is also a national Tamazight channel in Morocco, called Tamazight TV. It opened in 2010, and broadcasts for over 13 hours a day, with an extended broadcast on weekends..\n\nMorocco' official religion is Islam. Throughout the year, Moroccans life is rhythmed by many religious celebrations like Ramadan and Eid Al Adha. During these celebrations, most of them being public holidays, Moroccans focus on praying and spending time with their family. Other religious celebrations include the Friday weekly prayer where most Moroccans go to the mosque for the Friday mid-day prayer.\n\nThe traditional dress for men and women is called \"djellaba\"; a long, loose, hooded garment with full sleeves. The djellaba has a hood that comes to a point called a \"qob\". The \"qob\" protects the wearer from the sun or in colder climates, like the mountains, the \"qob\" keeps in body heat and protects the face from falling snow. For special occasions, men also wear a red cap called a \"bernousse\", more commonly referred to as a \"Fez\". Women wear \"kaftans\" decorated with ornaments. Nearly all men, and most women, wear \"balgha\" (بلغه) —- soft leather slippers with no heel, often dyed yellow. Women also wear high-heeled sandals, often with silver or gold tinsel.\n\nThe distinction between a \"djellaba\" and a \"kaftan\" is the hood on the \"djellaba\", while a \"kaftan\" does not. Most women's \"djellabas\" are brightly colored and have ornate patterns, stitching, or beading, while men's \"djellabas\" are usually plainer and colored neutrally.\n\n\nSome directors have set films in Morocco. In 1952 Orson Welles chose Essaouira as the setting for several scenes in his adaptation of Shakespeare's \"Othello\", which had won the Grand Prix du Festival International du Film at that year's Cannes Film Festival. In 1955, Alfred Hitchcock directed \"The Man Who Knew Too Much\" and in 1962, David Lean shot the Tafas Massacre scene of \"Lawrence of Arabia\" in the city of \"Ouarzazate\", which houses Atlas Studios. Aït Benhaddou has been the setting of many films. The film \"Hideous Kinky\" was filmed in Marrakech. \n\nMorocco has many beautiful gardens, including the Majorelle Garden in Marrakech and the botanical garden in Rabat.\n\n\"Dar\", the name given to one of the most common types of domestic structures in Morocco, is a home found in a \"medina\", or walled urban area of a city. Most Moroccan homes traditionally adhere to the \"Dar al-Islam\", a series of tenets on Islamic domestic life. \"Dar\" exteriors are typically devoid of ornamentation and windows, except occasional small openings in secondary quarters, such as stairways and service areas. These piercings provide light and ventilation. \"Dars\" are typically composed of thick, high walls that protect inhabitants from thievery, animals, and other such hazards; however, they have a much more symbolic value from an Arabic perspective. In this culture the exterior represents a place of work, while the interior represents a place of refuge. Thus, Moroccan interiors are often very lavish in decoration and craft.\n\nConsistent with most Islamic architecture, \"dars\" are based around small open-air patios, surrounded by very tall thick walls, to block direct light and minimize heat. Intermediary triple-arched porticos lead to usually two to four symmetrically located rooms. These rooms have to be long and narrow, creating very vertical spaces, because the regional resources and construction technology typically only allow for joists that are usually less than thirteen feet.\n\nUpon entering a \"dar\", guests move through a zigzagging passageway that hides the central courtyard. The passageway opens to a staircase leading to an upstairs reception area called a \"dormiria\", which often is the most lavish room in the home adorned with decorative tilework, painted furniture, and piles of embroidered pillows and Moroccan rugs. More affluent families also have greenhouses and a second \"dormiria\", accessible from a street-level staircase. Service quarters and stairways were always at the corners of the structures.\n\nContemporary Art in Morocco is still in the making yet with a great potential for growth. Since the 1990-2000s Moroccan cities have welcomed institutions contributing to the diffusion of contemporary art and visual arts: L'appartement 22 and Radioapartment22 in Rabat, the Cinémathèque de Tanger in Tangier, La Source du Lion in Casablanca, Dar Al-Ma'mûn residency and center, the Marrakech Art Fair, and the Marrakech Biennale all in Marrakech.\n\nLocal art galleries such as Galerie Villa Delaporte, Atelier 21, Galerie Matisse and Galerie FJ are also platforms showing, to a certain extent, contemporary artwork and contributing to its development.\n\nGlobal art market also participates in developing and giving visibility to contemporary art in Morocco. International exhibitions such as \"Africa Remix\" (2004) and \"Uneven Geographies\" (2010) featured contemporary artists from North Africa, including Moroccan ones. Regional events such as the Dakar Biennale (or Dak'Art – Biennale de l'Art Africain Contemporain), which is a major contemporary African art exhibition and gives greater visibility to artists from this continent.\n\nArtists born in Morocco or with Moroccan origins include such as Mounir Fatmi. Other artists include Latifa Echackhch, Mohamed El Baz, Bouchra Khalili, Majida Khattari, Mehdi-Georges Lahlou, and the young Younes Baba-Ali.\n\nThere are several initiatives from Moroccan artists to help developing a contemporary art market in the country. For example, artists such as Hassan Darsi created La Source du Lion in 1995, an art studio who welcomes artists-in-residence, and Yto Barrada founded the Cinémathèque de Tanger in 2006, which is dedicated to promote Moroccan cinematographic culture. A group of Moroccan artists called Collectif 212 features Moroccan artists such as Amina Benbouchta, Hassan Echair, Jamila Lamrani, Safâa Erruas and Younès Rahmoun. This group is committed to develop more artistic experiences and collaborates with other promising artists such Hicham Benohoud.\n\nThere are also promising local artists such as Batoul Shim and Karim Rafi, who both participated in the project \"Working for Change\", a project trying to act within the fabric of Moroccan society, during the 2011 Venice Biennale.\n\nThere's a bourgeoning market for modern & contemporary art.According to the data compiles by Global Africa Art Market Report ,with South Africa and Nigeria, Morocco is among the most important marketplaces in Africa.\n\nMoroccan cuisine is home to Berber, and Moorish. It is known for dishes like the couscous, tajine, pastilla and others. Moroccan cuisine uses a lot of spices like cinnamon, turmeric, ginger and saffron, giving it an original taste. Moroccans everyday go-to meal is the tajine as it is a balanced and quick to make meal. On special occasions, more complex meals like the Moroccan pastilla and some special pastries like \"gazelle corns\" and \"briwates\" are served for guests. \n\nSweets like halwa are popular, as well as other sweets. Cuisines from neighbouring countries also influence the country's culinary traditions.\n\nMoroccan music is of Amazigh and Arab origins. Rock-influenced chaabi bands are widespread, as is trance music with historical origins in Muslim music.\n\nMorocco is home to Andalusian classical music that is found throughout North Africa. It probably evolved under the Moors in Cordoba, and the Persian-born musician Ziryab is usually credited with its invention. A genre known as Contemporary Andalusian Music and art is the brainchild of Morisco visual artist/composer/oudist Tarik Banzi, founder of the Al-Andalus Ensemble.\n\nChaabi (\"popular\") is a music consisting of numerous varieties which are descended from the multifarious forms of Moroccan folk music. Chaabi was originally performed in markets, but is now found at any celebration or meeting.\n\nPopular Western forms of music are becoming increasingly popular in Morocco, such as fusion, rock, country, metal and, in particular, hip hop.\n\nMorocco participated in the 1980 Eurovision Song Contest, where it finished in the penultimate position.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23830140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23830140", "title": "Damian Thompson", "text": "Damian Thompson\n\nDamian Thompson (born 1962) is an English journalist, editor and author. He is an associate editor of \"The Spectator\" and editor-in-chief of the \"Catholic Herald\". Previously he worked for \"The Daily Telegraph\" where he was religious affairs correspondent and later blogs editor and a Saturday columnist.\n\nThompson was educated at Presentation College, Reading (later known as the Elvian School), and read history at Mansfield College, Oxford.\n\nIn 2003, he received his Ph.D in the sociology of religion from the London School of Economics for his thesis, \"The problem of the end: a sociological study of the management of apocalyptic belief at Kensington Temple, a London Pentecostal church, at the end of the millennium\". He was religious affairs correspondent of \"The Daily Telegraph\" from 1990 to 1994, and subsequently editor-in chief of the \"Catholic Herald.\" He is a director of the \"Herald\".\n\nThompson was a Saturday columnist for \"The Daily Telegraph\" from 2011, and the Blogs Editor of the Telegraph Media Group, with responsibility for editing and commissioning blogs on politics, religion, finance and culture. In June 2014, he left his posts at \"The Telegraph\" \"in entirely amicable circumstances\". On 5 August 2014, \"The Spectator\" announced that Thompson had been appointed associate editor.\n\nHe has written two books about apocalyptic belief and one about conspiracy theories or \"counterknowledge\", which he describes as \"misinformation packaged to look like fact\". His book \"The Fix: How Addiction is Invading our Lives and Taking Over Your World\" was published in 2012. He writes a monthly column about classical music for \"The Spectator\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55872458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55872458", "title": "De Constantia Sapientis", "text": "De Constantia Sapientis\n\nDe Constantia Sapientis () is a moral essay written by Seneca the Younger, a Roman Stoic philosopher, sometime around 55 AD. The work celebrates the imperturbility of the ideal Stoic sage, who with an inner firmness, is strengthened by injury and adversity.\n\nThe work is addressed to Seneca's friend Annaeus Serenus and written sometime between 47 and 62.\n\n\"De Constantia Sapientis\" is one of a trio of dialogues addressed to Serenus, which also includes \"De Tranquillitate Animi\" and \"De Otio\". The superior position the sage inhabits, of detachment from earthly future events of a detrimental nature, is the unifying theme of the dialogues. Since Serenus is portrayed as not yet a Stoic in \"De Constantia Sapientis\", it is usually considered the earliest of the three dialogues.\n\nIn \"De Constantia Sapientis\" Seneca argues that Stoicism is not as harsh as it first appears. Recalling the figure of Cato the Younger Seneca argues that Cato as a wise person suffered neither injury nor insult. Although Serenus objects to this paradox, Seneca provides further analogies to emphasize the impervious nature of the wise person. In chapter 5 Seneca distinguishes between \"contumelia\" (insults) and \"iniuria\" (injuries). The rest of the treatise through to chapter 19 consists of discussions on the nature of both themes, showing that the wise person is immune from both insults and injuries. Seneca concludes the treatise praising the idea of the wise person while offering practical advice for all of us who are imperfect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191481", "title": "Economy (religion)", "text": "Economy (religion)\n\nIn the Orthodox Church, in Eastern and Latin Catholic churches, and in the teaching of the Church Fathers which undergirds the theology of those communions, economy or oeconomy (, \"oikonomia\") has several meanings. The basic meaning of the word is \"handling\" or \"disposition\" or \"management\" or more literally \"housekeeping\" of a thing, usually assuming or implying \"good\" or \"prudent\" handling (as opposed to \"poor\" handling) of the matter at hand. In short, \"economia\" is discretionary deviation from the letter of the law in order to adhere to the spirit of the law and charity. This is in contrast to legalism, or \"akribia\" ()—strict adherence to the letter of the law of the church.\n\nAs such, the word \"economy\", and the concept attaching to it, are utilized especially with regard to two types of \"handling\": (a) \"divine economy\", that is, God's \"handling\" or \"management\" of the fallen state of the world and of mankind—the arrangements he made in order to bring about man's salvation after the Fall; and (b) what might be termed \"pastoral economy\" (or) \"ecclesiastical economy\", that is, the Church's \"handling\" or \"management\" of various pastoral and disciplinary questions, problems, and issues that have arisen through the centuries of Church history.\n\nAccording to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, The Fathers of the Church distinguish between theology (\"theologia\") and economy (\"oikonomia\"). \"Theology\" refers to the mystery of God's inmost life within the Blessed Trinity and \"economy\" to all the works by which God reveals himself and communicates his life. Through the \"oikonomia\" the \"theologia\" is revealed to us; but conversely, the \"theologia\" illuminates the whole \"oikonomia\". God's works reveal who he is in himself; the mystery of his inmost being enlightens our understanding of all his works. So it is, analogously, among human persons. A person discloses himself in his actions, and the better we know a person, the better we understand his actions.\n\nThe divine economy, in the broadest sense, not only refers to God's actions to bring about the world's salvation and redemption, but to \"all\" of God's dealings with, and interactions with, the world, including the Creation. In this sense, \"economy\", as used in classical Orthodox doctrinal terminology, constituted the second broad division of all Christian doctrinal teaching. The first division was called \"theology\" (literally, \"words about God\" or \"teaching about God\") and was concerned with all that pertains to God alone, in himself—the teaching on the Trinity, the divine attributes, and so on, but not with anything pertaining to the creation or the redemption. \"...The distinction between and ... remains common to most of the Greek Fathers and to all of the Byzantine tradition. ... means, in the fourth century, everything which can be said of God considered in Himself, outside of His creative and redemptive economy. To reach this 'theology' properly so-called, one therefore must go beyond ... God as Creator of the universe, in order to be able to extricate the notion of the Trinity from the cosmological implications proper to the 'economy.'\"\n\nAs noted above, \"economy\" also refers to the Church's \"handling\" or \"management\" or \"disposition\" of various pastoral and disciplinary questions, problems, and issues. Here again, \"economy\" is used in several ways.\n\nIn one sense, it refers to the discretionary power given to the Church by Christ himself to manage and govern the Church. Christ referred to this when he gave the apostles the authority to \"bind and to loose\". This authority was transmitted to the bishops who came after the apostles. In this sense \"economy\" means, as already noted, \"handling\", \"management\", \"disposition\". In general then, \"economy\" refers to pastoral handling or discretion or management in a neutral sense.\n\nAn example in the New Testament of the application of lenient economy, or \"economy according to leniency\", is found in Acts chapter 15, where the Apostles decided to limit the number and degree of Jewish observances that would be required of Gentile converts. An example in the New Testament of the application of strict economy, or \"economy according to exactness (or, strictness, preciseness) [\"akribeia\"]\", may be seen in Acts 16:3, when St. Paul set aside the usual rule to circumcise Timothy, whose father was a Gentile, to placate certain Jewish Christians. In both instances, economy was exercised to facilitate the salvation of some of the parties involved.\n\nIn Orthodox Church history, examples and instances of economy abound. Since ancient times, converts to the Church who were coming from certain heretical groups were not required to be baptized, even though the normal path of entrance to the Church was through baptism. Thus the Church, guided by the Holy Spirit, decided that under specific conditions, the application of economy (i.e. according to leniency) would be the norm in this matter. But since the usual rule is baptism, such leniency can easily be, and sometimes has been, suspended (usually in periods when the heretical groups in question were actively opposing the Church). In these cases, the Church returned to her customary usual rule of \"exactness,\" not applying economy (or not applying economy according to lenience). In calling for the reception of converts into Orthodoxy through means other than baptism in certain cases, the Ecumenical Councils made no determination regarding the existence of sacraments outside of Orthodoxy, but only addressed the situation of the convert to Orthodoxy.\n\n"}
{"id": "11714462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11714462", "title": "Fakiha", "text": "Fakiha\n\nBearing a name appropriate to the usage of a significant amount of its land, Al-Fakiha (, literally \"fruits\") is a village in Baalbek-Hermel Governorate, Lebanon. The village is separated into three neighborhoods: \"Jdaydi\", \"Zaytoun\" and \"Fakiha\", the grouping adopting the name of the third one.\n\nThe Fakiha sub-village is mostly suburbia with houses built very close to each other if not on top of each other or connected in some other way. As a result, a close-knit community has developed in the village, despite two major religions being present: Sunnite Muslim and Melkite Greek Catholic Church.\nThe most authentic families in Fakiha zaytoun and jdeideh like bayt Aoun and Kibar as they are have lived in this domain much longer than all the other families . The village is mainly Sunni.\n\nZaytoun (literally \"olives\") is a much more spaced section. The houses are built more modernly and spaciously, each boasting a large block of land (at least two to three acres). The land is used to its full potential, with the agriculture including an abundance of olive groves, orchards of apricot and fig trees as well as a variety of other fruits and vegetables depending on the whim of the farmer and his intention of use of the crops.\n\nWithin Zaytoun is a branch of the Omar El-Mokhtar educational facilities called Al-Qayrawaan. It is one of the few in the area that supports a K-9 English/Arabic curriculum with highly qualified staff. The sciences, mathematics and a language subject is taught in English, whereas the humanities and a language subject are taught in Arabic. Moreover, extra-curriculum subjects are available. The community present in Zaytoun shares the closeness of that of Fakiha despite the more spaced housing. However, its population is completely of the Sunni Muslim faith.\n\nThe last of the three sections is the Jdaydi sub-village. It is similar in structure to Zaytoun, but the difference is that the housing is less spacious as is the land allotments. The community in Jdaydi is not as close-knit as the former two, with the tendency to form social groups more noticeable, especially among the youth. The population is a mixture of Sunni Muslim and the Catholic church.\nJdeide or Djedeideh is very famous in the second world war as Djedeide Fortress or Djedeideh Gorge\n^^The defence was to be based on a number of ‘fortresses’, corresponding more or less to the desert ‘boxes’, covering all the routes down through Syria. The Division's particular responsibility, the Djedeide fortress, was an important one, blocking the Bekaa valley, for centuries a north-south highway pointing at Palestine and Egypt. Near the little village of Djedeide the Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon ranges bounding this valley converged, making a naturally strong position that would be difficult to get at from a flank. The fortress was to be tank-proof, dug for all-round defence, and stocked with two months' supplies. All this was to be done by mid-May—Jerry, said the experts, would not be able to overcome all the obstacles separating him from Syria before the end of May at the earliest.\n^The Djedeide fortress, sprawling across the valley and up the hills on either side, had already had some work done on it— an anti-tank ditch across the front was nearly finished. Fourth Brigade had the right-hand sector, consisting mostly of the forbidding Anti-Lebanon slopes; only 18 Battalion had a stretch of comparatively low, accessible ground. About a mile along the good main road running north from camp the unit's area began, and from there it stretched another mile and a half forward, astride the road, as far as Djedeide village, which was included in the front line. The battalion's mile and a quarter of front was to be held by two companies, B in Djedeide and on the valley floor to the left of the road, D among gardens and orchards on gentle slopes on the right flank, just above Djedeide. The rest of the unit was farther back, perched on hillsides on the right of the road, in the lee of a rocky spur which came down just behind Djedeide. The battalion's right-hand neighbour, 20 Battalion, looked down on it from the crags, while 18 Battalion itself looked down on the valley to its left, where other troops were later to come in and complete the line.\n\nFor two months the men worked at Djedeide, blasting away the hard rock, hewing out slit trenches and gun positions, living quarters and first-aid posts, observation posts and headquarters, the last-named roofed over and strengthened with heavy railway iron. Some natural caves provided ready-made dugouts without the hard work, once the traces of native occupation were cleared away. Everything was camouflaged, and an intricate system of dummy and alternative positions was built. The Syrians living nearby became very friendly after a while, and the first-aid posts found themselves acting fairy godmothers to the villagers, whose medical services seemed to be nil.\n\nAt first the men attacked the work with enjoyment. It was a novelty to be in cultivated country, or even on a rocky hill, after the eternal sand and sameness of Egypt. The air was crisp and clear, the cold invigorating, and the weather for the first few days good. From about 18 to 25 March the retreating winter had a last fling, with vicious rainstorms, snow almost page 241 to the bottom of the hills, and freezing cold; but this ended very quickly, and by the end of the month the sun was out again and the valley warming up with the advance of spring. The oranges ripened and were a pleasant variation in the rations, succeeded by apricots as the weeks wore on.\n\nThe malarial season came too. The Bekaa valley is a highly malarious area, and from 4 April every possible weapon was turned against its bearer, the too friendly anopheles mosquito. Anti-malaria squads could be seen prowling the area spraying stagnant water with insecticide. Complicated personal precautions appeared in routine orders—mosquito nets to be tucked in round blankets at dusk, sleeping quarters sprayed every morning, face nets and gloves for sentries, repellent cream smeared on exposed skin. You even saw inspecting officers running their fingers along a man's cheek to see if he had greased himself properly. Later in April, when summer clothes were issued, the unlovely Bombay bloomers at last came into their own, being unhitched and let down below the knee at dusk to dissuade the ‘mossies’. In 18 Battalion, as in every other unit, the men were apt to look on all these precautions with a tolerant contempt, and observe them when convenient. But this was not the case with typhus, which was reported in the Bekaa valley in March. This most unpleasant disease commanded more respect among the Kiwis, who were quite ready to co-operate by obeying ‘out of bounds’ restrictions where typhus was concerned.\n\nAs the weeks went on and the heat increased, the first enthusiasm for manual labour was less evident. The Bekaa valley, the men found, was a natural wind funnel. It blew almost continuously, sometimes in gales that forced fine dust in everywhere—you might as well be back in Egypt, was the men's reaction whenever this got particularly bad. The tempo of the work slackened considerably.\n\nWith the receding snow the mountains lost their beauty and became arid, ragged hunks of rock, and though the valley blossomed in lush spring green splashed with the vivid red of wild poppies, there was a feeling of being shut in, of having no horizon wider than the few miles of river plain and the mountain tops. This increased when in late April the semi-nomadic local peasants began their move to summer grazing page 242 grounds. Every day and all day the valley was filled with a moving throng of sheep and camels, of dark gipsy-looking people, of donkeys loaded high with household goods, all coming from nobody knew where and disappearing into the vague distance. No wonder that the Kiwis, without enough hard work to absorb all their surplus energy, tended to become restless.\n\nWith restlessness comes mischief. Mild mischief, to be sure, but it took several forms—a vastly greater consumption of questionable liquor with all its unpleasant effects, an equally vast increase in the popularity of that expensive sport ‘two up’, systematic dynamiting of the fish out of the Orontes River which ran past 18 Battalion's camp some two miles away.\n\nThis last caused most trouble. Beginning in a small way in March, it had assumed such proportions by late April that the river was practically denuded of fish, and the local authorities, perturbed by the disappearance of one of their staple food sources, made a vigorous protest which led to the sport being completely banned under penalty of severe punishment.\n\nIt was all very well putting notices in routine orders banning this or that, but it was more to the point to provide recreation. So this is what 18 Battalion set out to do, and it was very successful.\n^ from ^^ The Official History of New Zealand in the Second World War 1939–1945^^\n\nBeing in direct contact with the major road that connects Lebanon to Syria and, in turn, to the rest of the Arab world, Fakiha has flourished commercially and culturally and is a major contributor in the field of teaching across the entire Bekaa Valley. Not only have its inhabitants spread across the country, but a significant amount of them have emigrated to many countries including Brazil, Australia, the America, Canada, France, Italy, Argentina and other countries all over the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "21738163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21738163", "title": "Fear of God", "text": "Fear of God\n\nFear of God refers to fear or a specific sense of respect, awe, and submission to a deity. People subscribing to popular monotheistic religions might fear divine judgment, hell or God's omnipotence.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, \"The heart must be sanctified from every form of selfishness and lust, for the weapons of the unitarians and the saints were and are the fear of God.\"\n\nAccording to Pope Francis, “The fear of the Lord, the gift of the Holy Spirit, doesn’t mean being afraid of God, since we know that God is our Father that always loves and forgives us...[It] is no servile fear, but rather a joyful awareness of God’s grandeur and a grateful realization that only in him do our hearts find true peace.”\n\nFrom a theological perspective \"fear of the Lord\" encompasses more than simple fear. Robert B. Strimple says, \"There is the convergence of awe, reverence, adoration, honor, worship, confidence, thankfulness, love, and, yes, fear.\" In the Magnificat (Luke 1:50) Mary declaims, \"His mercy is from age to age to those who fear him.\" The Parable of the Unjust Judge (Luke 18:1-8) finds Jesus describing the judge as one who \"...neither feared God nor cared for man.\" Some translations of the Bible, such as the New International Version, sometimes replace the word \"fear\" with \"reverence\".\n\nIt can also mean fear of God's judgment. The fear of God is felt because one understands the \"fearful expectation of judgement\". Still, this is not a fear that leads one to despair, rather it must be coupled with trust, and most importantly, love. In , it is said, \"If you, O Lord, kept a record of sins, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness; therefore you are feared.\"\n\nIn the New Testament, this fear is described using the Greek word φόβος (\"phobos\", \"fear/horror\"), except in 1 Timothy 2:10, where Paul describes γυναιξὶν ἐπαγγελλομέναις θεοσέβειαν (\"gynaixin epangellomenais theosebeian\"), \"women professing the fear of God\", using the word θεοσέβεια (\"theosebeia\").\n\nRoman Catholicism counts this fear as one of the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit. In , the fear of the Lord is described as the \"discipline\" or \"instruction\" of wisdom. Writing in the Catholic Encyclopedia, Jacques Forget explains that this gift \"fills us with a sovereign respect for God, and makes us dread, above all things, to offend Him.\" In an April 2006 article published in \"Inside the Vatican\" magazine, contributing editor John Mallon writes that the \"fear\" in \"fear of the Lord\" is often misinterpreted as \"servile fear\" (the fear of getting in trouble) when it should be understood as \"filial fear\" (the fear of offending someone whom one loves).\n\nAccording to Jerry Bridges, \"There was a time when committed Christians were known as God-fearing people. This was a badge of honor.\"\n\nLutheran theologian Rudolf Otto coined the term numinous to express the type of fear one has for the Lord. Anglican C. S. Lewis references the term in many of his writings, but specifically describes it in his book \"The Problem of Pain\" and states that fear of the numinous is not a fear that one feels for a tiger, or even a ghost. Rather, the fear of the numinous, as C. S. Lewis describes it, is one filled with awe, in which you \"feel wonder and a certain shrinking\" or \"a sense of inadequacy to cope with such a visitant of or prostration before it\". It is a fear that comes forth out of love for the Lord.\n\n\"Taqwa\" is an Islamic term for being conscious and cognizant of God, of truth, of the rational reality, \"piety, fear of God\". It is often found in the Quran. \"Al-Muttaqin\" ( \"\") refers to those who practice \"taqwa\", or in the words of Ibn Abbas -- \"believers who avoid Shirk with Allah and who work in His obedience.\"\n\nThe first mention of the \"fear of God\" in the Hebrew Bible is in Genesis 22:12, where Abraham is commended for putting his trust in God. In Isaiah 11:1-3, the prophet describes the shoot that shall sprout from the stump of Jesse, \"The spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him: a spirit of wisdom and of understanding, A spirit of counsel and of strength, a spirit of knowledge and of fear of the Lord, and his delight shall be the fear of the Lord.\" Proverbs 9:10 says that \"fear of the Lord\" is \"the beginning of wisdom\".\n\nThe Hebrew words יִרְאַ֣ת (\"yir’aṯ\") and יִרְאַ֣ת (\"p̄aḥaḏ\") are most commonly used to describe fear of God/El/Yahweh.\n\nBahya ibn Paquda characterized two types of fear as a lower \"fear of punishment\" and a higher \"fear of [divine awe] glory.\" Abraham ibn Daud differentiated between \"fear of harm\" (analogous to fear of a snake bite or a king's punishment) and \"fear of greatness,\" analogous to respect for an exalted person, who would do us no harm. Maimonides categorized the fear of God as a positive commandment, as the feeling of human insignificance deriving from contemplation of God's \"great and wonderful actions and creations.\"\nAuthor Boyd C. Purcell and atheist Sam Harris have each compared doctrines promoting the fear of God to living under the Stockholm syndrome, where hostages feel a misplaced sense of connection and affection for the hostage taker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57650101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57650101", "title": "Gayan Bayan", "text": "Gayan Bayan\n\nGayan Bayan is religious dance performed by disciples of Sankardev in Satras.\n"}
{"id": "14341834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14341834", "title": "Halo (Machine Head song)", "text": "Halo (Machine Head song)\n\nHalo is the third single from the album \"The Blackening\" by the groove metal band Machine Head. This is the only song on the album to be written by all four band members. It was also featured as one of the metal genre tracks in The Sims 2: Teen Style Stuff pack.\nOn March 24, 2008, Machine Head announced through their official website that they are to film a video for Halo, asking local Bay Area fans (and in some cases, fans from around the globe) to be extras in the video. Fans from the UK and Germany attended, In the video features bassist Adam Duce's father as the evil figure. The video was released May 31, 2008, premiering on MTV2's Headbangers Ball. The edit version as heard on the video is much shorter than the original as heard on the Blackening, cut from 9:04, down to 5:11. Flynn cited Metallica as its inspiration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49272517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49272517", "title": "Hasan I (Bavandid ruler)", "text": "Hasan I (Bavandid ruler)\n\nHasan I (Persian: حسن), was the ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 1165 to 1173. He was the son and successor of Shah Ghazi Rustam IV. He was murdered in 1173 by his Turkic slave-soldiers (\"ghilman\") and was succeeded by his son Ardashir I.\n\n"}
{"id": "28246759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28246759", "title": "History of the Jews in Gdańsk", "text": "History of the Jews in Gdańsk\n\nThe Jewish Community of Gdańsk () dates back to at least the 15th century though for many centuries it was separated from the rest of the city. Under Polish rule, Jews acquired limited rights in the city in the 16th and 17th centuries and after the city's 1793 incorporation into Prussia the community largely assimilated to German culture. In the 1920s, during the period of the Free City of Danzig, the number of Jews increased significantly and the city acted as a transit point for Jews leaving Eastern Europe for the United States and Canada. Antisemitism existed among German nationalists and the persecution of Jews in the Free City intensified after the Nazis came to power in 1933. During World War II and the Holocaust the majority of the community either emigrated or were murdered. Since the fall of communism Jewish property has been returned to the community, and an annual festival, the Baltic Days of Jewish Culture, has taken place since 1999.\n\nA Jewish community in Danzig proper did not exist until the 15th century. The earliest records indicate that Jews were present in Gdańsk as early as the 11th century. In 1308 Gdańsk was taken over by the Teutonic Knights and a year later, the Grand Master of the Order, Siegfried von Feuchtwangen, forbid Jews to settle or remain in the city in an edict of non-toleration (\"de non tolerandis Judaeis\"). The knights weakened the restriction in the early 15th century under pressure from the Grand Duke of Lithuania, Witold, and as a result a limited number of Jewish merchants from Lithuania and Volhynia were allowed to come to Danzig. Around 1440 a \"Judengasse\" (\"Jewish Lane\", modern Spichrzowa) and around 1454 a Jewish settlement existed.\n\nAfter the end of the Thirteen Years' War the city returned to Poland and Jewish merchants came to trade from all over Poland and Lithuania. Many of them received special privileges from the King of Poland in regards to both the internal (along the Vistula river) as well as trans-Baltic trade. Others acted as agents of the szlachta (Polish nobility) in commercial matters.\n\nIn 1476, on the initiative of the King of Poland, Casimir IV Jagiellon the city council allowed two Jewish merchants to have equal rights with other merchants. Danzig's semi-autonomous status within the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth however allowed the city to refuse citizenship and trading rights to outsiders, thus the rights of Jews in the Kingdom did not apply in Danzig (similar restrictions also applied to Scots and Mennonites, many of whom also settled around the city). On the insistence of local merchants, Jews had to move to the Schottland suburb outside of the city's boundary in 1520, subsequently Jews also settled in other places outside of the jurisdiction of the city.\n\nThe city burghers continued to curtail the rights of Jews in the city throughout the 16th century, particularly in regards to trade. This was opposed by the Jewish merchants through a boycott of the Danzig owned banking house in Kowno (which had to be closed down) and through the intercession of the Polish Kings on behalf of the Council of the Four Lands.\n\nIn 1577, Danzig rebelled against the election of Stephen Báthory as King of Poland and an inconclusive siege of the city commenced. The negotiations that finally broke the stalemate included concessions by the Polish king in religious matters that also concerned Jews. Jewish religious services were not allowed in the city and in 1595 the city council again permitted sojourns only during the fair days. In the 1620s Jewish merchants were allowed to stay for the Domenic Fair and remain 4 days after its closure.\n\nAt the beginning of the 17th century, almost half a thousand Jews lived in the city and, in 1620, King Zygmunt III Waza enforced an edict permitting the Jews to live within the city. A few years later, Jews were allowed to trade in grain and timber, first in one part of the city, then all of it.\n\nIn 1752 a city ordinance regulated a tax of 12 Florin per month for a Jewish merchant, 8 Florin for an assistant and a 4 Florin for a servant. 50 Jewish families received citizenship in 1773 and 160 Jews were allowed to reside in the city.\n\nThe situation changed with the First partition of Poland in 1772, when the suburbs became Prussian while the city of Danzig remained part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth until 1793. The 240 Jewish families (1,257 persons) of the Danzig suburbs received a General-Privilege in August 1773, which guaranteed their legal status. As Gershon C. Bacon states: \"This was the beginning of the association of Danzig Jewry with Germany, the German economy and German culture, which lasted until the dissolution of the community in the Nazi era\".\n\nAlthough the emancipation edict of 1812 improved the legal status of Jews in Prussia, anti-Jewish riots (pogroms) occurred in 1819 with the Hep-Hep riots as well as in 1821, and the legal rights of Jews were often questioned by local officials.\n\nIn the 19th century the communities of Altschottland (modern Stary Szkoty), Weinberg (modern Winnicka), Langfuhr (modern Wrzeszcz), Danzig-Breitgasse (modern Szeroka) and Danzig-Mattenbuden (modern Szopy) were still independent and elected their own officers, built synagogues, ran charitable institutions and chose their own rabbis. The Altschottland community started an initiative to unify the Jews of Danzig in 1878. A committee was established in 1880 and in February 1883 elections were held for a unified Kehilla board. In 1887 the new founded \"Synagogen-Gemeinde\" (Synagogue-kehilla) opened the Great Synagogue. Danzig Jewry at that time was a liberal, German-Jewish community and most Danzig Jews considered themselves \"Germans of the Mosaic persuasion\" and spoke German.\n\nMany Danzig Jews volunteered for military service in World War I, about 95 of them died in service, a memorial plaque was later displayed in the Great Synagogue and shipped to New York's Jewish Museum in 1939.\n\nAfter World War I Danzig became a Free City under the protection of the League of Nations. The number of Jews in Danzig grew rapidly as visa restrictions did not exist and many Jews from the areas attached to Poland after World War I, the Second Polish Republic and refugees of the Russian Civil War settled here or were awaiting visas for the US or Canada.\n\nDanzig Jewry, aided by the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society took care for these refugees, which were housed in a transit camp in the port area. Between 1920 and 1925 some 60,000 Jews passed through Danzig. The influence of Eastern European Jews, often sympathizing with Zionism, caused tensions within Synagogengemeinde Danzig. Besides the traditional \"Centralverein Danziger Staatsbürger jüdischen Glaubens\" (CV; Central Association of Danzig Citizens of Jewish Faith), led by Bernhard Kamnitzer, Jews from Russia and Poland founded the new \"OSE\" association, which also provided for charitable services such as a kindergarten, a public soup kitchen, a clothing store, occupational counselling, and a job service, as well as for a theatre for the people's edification and entertainment.\n\nThe OSE further ran a health centre in the former \"Friedländersche Schule\" on Jakobstor street #13. The native Jews tried to maintain their German-Liberal style community and their leadership made several attempts to restrict the participation of foreigners in the election of the \"Repräsentantenversammlung\" (legislative assembly of representatives) of Synagogengemeinde Danzig. However, naturalised immigrants could vote so that also proponents of \"Agudas Jisro'el\" and \"Misrachi\", forming Jüdische Volkspartei (; ) ran for seats and eventually won some.\n\nIn 1920 the \"Jung-Jüdischer Bund Danzig\" (Young-Jewish Association Danzig) was founded, a newspaper, the \"Jüdisches Wochenblatt\" (Jewish weekly), was published from 1929 to 1938 as well as the Zionist \"Danziger Echo\" (until 1936).\n\nA new synagogue was built on Mirchauer Weg in Langfuhr (Wrzeszcz) in 1927. In 1931 the first world conference of the Betar was organized in Danzig.\n\nIn the 1920s and early 1930s anti-Semitism grew and the local Nazi party took power in the Volkstag (parliament) elections of 1933 and 1935. The Nazis took over the government in 1933 and as a result Jews were dismissed from public service and discriminated against in public life. The presence of the League of Nations' High Commissioner however still guaranteed a minimum of legal certainty. In summer 1933 an \"Association of Jewish Academics\" was founded, which protested against the discrimination of Jews to the Senate and the League of Nations. Though the League declared several acts of the Nazi-government unconstitutional, this had no effect on the actual situation in the Free City. Following the example of the Jüdischer Kulturbund in Berlin a similar association existed since September 1933.\n\nOn 23 October 1937 60 shops and several private residences were damaged in a Pogrom which followed a speech of the Nazi Party's Gauleiter of the city, Albert Forster. This caused the flight of about the half of the Jewish community within a year. In 1938 Forster initiated an official policy of repression against Jews; Jewish businesses were seized and handed over to Gentile Danzigers, Jews were forbidden to attend theaters, cinemas, public baths and swimming pools, or stay in hotels within the city, and, with the approval of the city's senate, barred from the medical, legal and notary professions. Jews from Zoppot (Sopot) were forced to leave that city within the Danzig state territory. The Kristallnacht riots in Germany were followed by similar riots between 12 and 14 November 1938. The Synagogues in Langfuhr, Mattenbuden, and Zoppot were destroyed and the Great Synagogue was only saved because Jewish war veterans guarded the building.\n\nFollowing these riots the Nazi senate (government) introduced the racialist Nuremberg laws in November 1938 and the Jewish community decided to organize its emigration. All property, including the Synagogues and cemeteries, was sold to finance the emigration of the Danzig Jewry. The Great Synagogue on Reitbahn street was taken over by the municipal administration and torn down in May 1939. The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee paid up to $50,000 for the ceremonial objects, books, scrolls, tapestries, textiles and all kind of memorabilia, which arrived at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America on 26 July 1939. The extensive collection of Lesser Giełdziński was also shipped to New York City, where it was placed at the Jewish museum.\n\nIn early 1939 about 3,500 Jews, most of them Danzig citizens, were still living in the city. In March 1939 the first transport to Palestine departed and by September 1939 barely 1,700, mostly elderly, Jews remained. About 140 children were evacuated to Great Britain by the Kindertransport in 1938/39.\n\nAfter the invasion of Poland by Wehrmacht and SS Heimwehr Danzig, followed by the German annexation of Danzig Free City, about 130 Jews were held in a \"ghetto\" in a building on Milchkannengasse street (today's ulica Stągiewna), and another group was imprisoned, along with the city's Poles, at the Victoriaschule, an old gymnasium building, where they were beaten and tortured. There were also camps at Westerplatte and Ohra (modern Orunia). Jews from Zoppot were executed in the Piaśnica forest murders. In 1940 another ghetto was created, which held about 600 individuals.\n\nThe last group that managed to leave for Palestine departed in August 1940, with many of them facing the Patria disaster in Haifa port. Of those who remained, 395 were deported during February and March 1941 to Warsaw Ghetto and 200 from the Jewish old age home were sent to Theresienstadt and Auschwitz. Some were also taken out into the Baltic sea on barges and drowned.\n\nIn the former territory of the Free City of Danzig Stutthof concentration camp was organized in September 1939, when first Jews arrived. Tens of thousands of Jews (49 000) were sent there in 1944, many of them died., The prisoners were evacuated in 1945, many of the murdered.\n\nAt the end of World War II 22 Jewish partners of mixed marriages, who had remained in the city, survived. About 350 individuals, from the areas surrounding the city, reported to the regional offices of the Central Committee of Polish Jews in the summer of 1945.\n\nJewish life in Gdańsk began to revive as soon as the war was over. Jewish committees were organized within the city and region. In particular the Regional Jewish Committee (Okręgowy Komitet Żydowski) was composed of members of Ichud, Poale Zion and Poale Zion-Left members, as well as the Polish Communist Party. Members of the Bund however were excluded and not allowed to join by the Communist authorities. The religious organization Jewish Religious Organization of the (Pomeranian) Voivodeship (Wojewódzkie Żydowskie Zrzeszenie Religijne) was created in October 1945 and reacquired the synagogue in Wrzeszcz in the same year. However, the religious life of Gdańsk's Jews was slow during this time, partly because a good portion of those present in the city were non-religious and partly because of general anti-religious persecutions carried out by the Stalinist regime during the period 1947–53.\n\nDuring the March 1968 events, a major student and intellectual protests against the communist government of the People's Republic of Poland, the communist authorities instigated a wave of antisemitism as part of a \"anti-Zionist\" campaign. Jews of Gdańsk were also affected, as exemplified by the repressions directed at Wiktor Taubenfigiel, the director of the Gdańsk hospital. Jakub Szadaj, a native of Gdańsk involved in Jewish cultural activities in the city and a prominent member of the democratic anti-communist opposition, was also arrested and sentenced to ten years in prison (later commuted to five). Szadaj was exonerated of all charges in post-Communist Poland in 1992. An exhibit of photographs and documents entitled \"Marzec '68\" (March '68) covering the events was held in the Great Synagogue in 2010. However the general subject of what impact the events of 1968 had on the Jewish community in Gdańsk has not yet been studied extensively.\n\nAccording to the In Your Pocket City Guide no member of the contemporary Jewish community is a descendant of a pre-war resident. However, Jakub Szadaj, for example, is the son of Moses Szadaj, a citizen of the pre-war Free City of Danzig.\n\nAn annual festival, the Baltic Days of Jewish Culture (Bałtyckie Dni Kultury Żydowskiej), has been taking place in Gdańsk since 1999. It is organized by Social and Cultural Organization of Jews in Poland (Towarzystwo Społeczno-Kulturalne Żydów w Polsce) and Jakub Szadaj.\n\nIn 2001 the only remaining pre-war synagogue, used as a warehouse for store furniture and as music school after World War II, was transferred to the Jewish community. Since September 2009 the complete \"New Synagogue\" serves for religious purposes again.\nA photo exhibit \"Żydzi gdańscy—Obrazy nieistniejącego świata\" (Jews of Gdańsk—Images of a lost world) was held in the Opatów Palace in Oliwa in 2008. The exhibition included more than 200 photographs documenting the history of the Jewish community in the city from the end of the 19th century until 1968.\n\nThe Independent Gmina of the Mosaic Faith (Niezależna Gmina Wyznania Mojżeszowego) represents about 100 Jews in the city, a WUPJ affiliate. In addition to helping with the organization of the Baltic Days of Jewish Culture, it offers Hebrew lessons and keeps contact with the Beit Warszawa congregation in Warsaw.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15112746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15112746", "title": "Illui", "text": "Illui\n\nIllui ( or עלוי also ilui; pronounced plural: \"illuim\") is a noun (meaning \"above,\" \"elevation,\" \"going up,\" or \"best\" from the root על meaning \"on top\" or \"above\" ) derived from the Hebrew and Yiddish, meaning a young Torah and Talmudic prodigy or genius.\n\nThe Hebrew term and title is applied to exceptional Talmudic scholars among Orthodox Jews. It is used among English speaking and Yiddish speaking Orthodox Jews to identify, as a type of mark of honor, those who have been blessed with greater mental and intellectual capabilities than the average intelligent Torah scholar.\n\nIt is considered a mark of honor and excellence for a Talmudic scholar to be recognized as an \"illui\" and to be described and called as such by his peers. It indicates that he is regarded as having extraordinary intelligence and mental capacity, necessary for the most serious, advanced and complex Talmudic learning and Torah study.\n\nIn common terminology, an \"illui\" would be someone who has an extraordinarily high \"IQ\" as recognized from early childhood as a child prodigy by rabbis and Torah scholars who have a keen eye to recognize the qualities of excellence in budding young Torah scholars.\n\nHaredi and Hasidic Jews are very familiar with this term, and if a scholar that they are familiar with has been known to have been called an \"illui\" they will regard it as a great honor for that individual as well as for his family, teachers and those with whom he associates. In Orthodox, Haredi and Hasidic circles, the term \"illui\" is applied to males only, as women are not obligated in Torah study to the same degree that men are required to devote much of their early life to serious and intense Torah studies, also referred to as Torah learning.\n\nMost rosh yeshivas (heads of yeshivas) have been called \"illuim\" as have many Hasidic Rebbes.\n\nThere are some Judaic mystical traditions that explain how and why \"illuim\" are different. One explanation attributes it to an \"Angel's Slap\":\n\nThe usage of the term is also used with caution in terms of its practical implications for the one who holds it. For example, Jonathan Rosenblum, a notable Haredi commentator has cautioned that:\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia explains that in the history of the yeshivas (also known as Talmudical or rabbinical schools or academies), the term \"illui\" had a definite function:\n\nThe term illui has widespread usage in all Jewish denominations. Rabbi Eric Yoffie, President of the Union for Reform Judaism in the United States states that: \"... It was the illui – the truly superior student – who would devote his life to study, while others would return to full-time employment. Indeed, even when the great yeshivot of Eastern Europe were at their height, the number of students was relatively modest and smaller than the number of full-time Torah students in Israel today...\" (writing for Union for Reform Judaism, 2008.)\n\nRabbi Louis Jacobs (1920 - 2006), of the Conservative Judaism-Masorti Movement, has been described as being: \"...Identified by his teachers as an ilui, a talmudic genius — renowned even then for his prodigious memory and sharp intellect — he went on to study at the Gateshead Kollel, which at that time was considered the Oxford of rabbinical academies...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13423774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13423774", "title": "Jan Hjärpe", "text": "Jan Hjärpe\n\nJan Östen Hjärpe (13 July 1942) is a Swedish Islamicist and a professor emeritus in Islamic studies at the Centre for Theology and Religious Studies at Lund University.\n\nHjärpe was born in Gothenburg, Sweden. He earned a B.D. from Uppsala University ín 1965 and a B.A. in the history of religions and Semitic languages in 1967. From 1967 to 1968 he studied at University of Strasbourg. He studied for a Licentiate of Theology at Uppsala University in 1971 and defended his thesis in the history of religions in 1972. From 1972 to 1976 he was a senior lecturer in the history of religions at Uppsala University and Umeå University. He also served as an acting professor at Åbo Akademi University in 1976, and an acting senior lecturer in the history of religions and the psychology of religions at Lund University from 1976 to 1982. From 1982 to 1984 he was a researcher in Islamic studies at the Swedish Research Council for Humanities and Social Sciences (now a part of the Swedish Research Council). From 1983 to 1984 he also served as a counsellor at the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs. He has held the professorship in Islamic studies at Lund University (which is the only professorship in Islamic studies in Sweden) since 1984. He is a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities and the Academia Europæa.\n\n"}
{"id": "15143572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15143572", "title": "John MacNeil", "text": "John MacNeil\n\nJohn MacNeil (1854-August 1896), was a Presbyterian author and evangelist in Australia. He is best known for his 1894 book, \"The Spirit-Filled Life\".\n\nMacNeil was born into a Presbyterian family in Scotland, but was brought up in Ballarat, Victoria. He studied theology at New College, Edinburgh and was ordained in 1879. Shortly afterwards he was introduced to the Higher Life movement.\n\nHe experienced \"an anointing of the Holy Spirit\" and in 1881 began evangelistic ministry. Poor health, however, hindered his itinerant work until he recovered after laying on of hands by an Anglican minister. He then toured Australia, seeing many people turn to Jesus.\n\nIn 1890, together with a few others, he formed a prayer group which came to be known as \"The Band\". They met regularly to pray for revival. They also focused strongly on the need for an infilling of the Holy Spirit, and prayed for \"the full Baptism of the Holy Spirit for themselves and for all ministers, officers and members of the Churches.\"\n\nFrom their prayer times came a decision to hold a Keswick-style convention in Geelong, with George Grubb, who had addressed Keswick Conventions in England, as the primary speaker, along with MacNeil, Webb and others.\n\nIn 1896 MacNeil toured Queensland a final time. At the end of his tour, in late August, he collapsed and died in a city shop.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33863118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33863118", "title": "Kayra", "text": "Kayra\n\nKayra or Kaira, () is creator god in Turkish mythology. He is the supreme god of the Tatars and the Son of the sky deity (Gök Tengri). This son, Kara Han (the black king), left his father's home in the heaven and went to live in the underworld. On occasion, identified as Kara-Khan (black king), he was the primordial god and his father was the ancordial god called Tengri.\n\nThe name of this deity is found in several forms, as is that of his opponent. \"Kayra-Khan\" may be translated as \"merciful king\", while the form \"Kara Han\" signifies \"black king\". For this reason, authority on Turkish Mythology Deniz Karakurt, considers Kara-Han and Kayra-Han to be two different deities. Furthermore, the Turkish word \"kara\" can mean both \"black\" and \"land\", with the result that Kara Han can mean not only 'Black (Dark) Ruler' but also 'Ruler of the Land'.\n\nIn ancient Turkish belief, Tangri (God) Kara Han is neither male nor female nor even human in form, but a pure-white goose that flies constantly over an endless expanse of water (time), the benign creator of all that is, including the other, lesser gods. Among all Altaic Tartars the dualistic division is most clear (Ulgen and Erlik), and the highest god, Tengre Kaira Khan, is a good power. But before Ak Ana appears to urge it to create, Kara-han becomes anxious, creation occurring in a context of loneliness, turmoil and fear: the water becomes turbulent, but it reassures itself that it \"need not fear\" (the implication of such self-reassurance being that it is indeed afraid). Supreme being in the universe it created, Kara-han is the ruler of the three realms of air, water and land, seated on the seventeenth level of the universe, from which it determines the fate of its creation. After creating the universe it planted the nine-boughed tree of life, from the branches of which came the ancestors of humans. Thus emerged the nine races (nine clans).\nIt has three sons: Ulgan, Mergen and Kyzaghan.\n\nA Tuvinian / Soyoth legend, told as follows... The giant turtle which supported the earth moved, which caused the cosmic ocean to begin flooding the earth. An old man who had guessed something like this would happen, built a raft. Boarded it with his family, and he was saved. When the waters receded, the raft was left on a high wooded mountain, where, it is said, it remains today. After the flood Kaira-Khan created everything around the world. Among other things, he taught people how to make Araq (some kind of liquor).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17226778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17226778", "title": "La Giudecca", "text": "La Giudecca\n\nLa Giudecca was a term used In Southern Italy and Sicily to identify any urban district (or a portion of a village) where Jewish communities dwelled and had their synagogues and businesses.\n\nUnlike the compulsory ghettos of Northern Italy and elsewhere, in some Southern Italian hamlets and cities Jewish families and their members voluntarily chose to live in certain areas but were free to travel and even contribute together with their Christian neighbours to the success or commercial, cultural and artistic progress of a region. A very few Sicilian Giudeccas were unhealthy and declined, in fact, the majority included many craftsmen, doctors and tradesmen.\n\n\"Judeca\" and \"Giudecca\" are the corrupt or jargonized medieval versions of the Latin female adjective \"Judaica\", meaning \"Jewish\" or \"Judaean\". \"The Jewess\" or \"The Jewry\" are other plausible meanings.\n\nIt is not known why the Venetian island of Giudecca acquired that name, as there is no evidence of Jewish settlement there.\n\nThe word \"Giudecca\" is also used in Dante's Inferno for the lowest circle of Hell, in which Judas resides.\n\n"}
{"id": "21878693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21878693", "title": "Lamp Unto My Feet", "text": "Lamp Unto My Feet\n\nLamp Unto My Feet was an American ecumenical religious program that was produced by CBS Television and broadcast from 1948 to 1979 on Sunday mornings.\n\nThe program used a combination of drama, music, and dance to explore the histories, cultures and theological philosophies of the Protestant, Catholic and Jewish faiths. \n\nIn 1979 this program and another long-running CBS religious series, \"Look Up and Live\", were combined to form a new show called \"For Our Times\" (April 28, 1979 to 1988), sponsored by the National Council of Churches, New York Board of Rabbis, and U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.\n\nNotable guest stars included Mahalia Jackson, Kim Hunter, Luther Adler, Edward Mulhare, Arthur Hill, and Aline MacMahon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3657517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3657517", "title": "List of Bishops of Poznań", "text": "List of Bishops of Poznań\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21670986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21670986", "title": "List of Buddhist temples in Hanoi", "text": "List of Buddhist temples in Hanoi\n\nBelow is the list of Buddhist temples in Hanoi, arranged in alphabetically order by the temple's name. For other arrangement click the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "874587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874587", "title": "List of Jewish biblical figures", "text": "List of Jewish biblical figures\n\nThis is a list of Jewish biblical figures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27451000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27451000", "title": "List of key episodes in the Canonical Gospels", "text": "List of key episodes in the Canonical Gospels\n\nThis page provides a list of the key episodes in each of the four Canonical Gospels. It provides consistency for the generation of Gospel harmony tables for miracles, parables, ministry, etc.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21517731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21517731", "title": "Marital conversion", "text": "Marital conversion\n\nMarital conversion is religious conversion upon marriage, either as a conciliatory act, or a mandated requirement according to a particular religious belief. Endogamous religious cultures may have certain opposition to interfaith marriage and ethnic assimilation, and may assert prohibitions against the conversion (\"marrying out\") of one their own claimed adherents. Conversely, they may require the marital conversion of those who wish to marry one of their adherents.\n\nThis is provided that the children from that marriage be raised as \"believers,\" a common Islamic term for Muslims. \nThe Qur'anic verses generally quoted are:\n\nJewish views on religious conversion due to intermarriage are largely in opposition to such marriage even if such marriages are tolerated. If a non-Jew wishes to become a Jew, in the sense that they practice Judaism and thus are accepted as a Jew, they are, depending on the Jewish religious tradition, typically welcome. On the other hand, if a Jew desires to leave Judaism, they are regarded as apostates or \"assimilators\" into a non-Jewish religion or culture. Non-Jewish cultures, tend to be regarded and portrayed as negative; being idolatrous, or rejecting of God (as Jews conceive God).\n\nSome Jewish leaders have called Jewish intermarriage a \"Silent Holocaust,\" particularly in 20th-21st century America where as many as 47% of American Jews have intermarried with non-Jews in past two decades. Such cultural and religious assimilation is said to represent a slow destruction of the Jewish people. Others have expressed a different view, accepting or tolerating such marriages, instead focusing their attention towards the concept that the children of a Jewish parent be raised Jewish, with some sense of their identity rooted in Judaism and in Jewish culture. However, some children of a Jewish parent were raised in the non-Jewish parent's religion while maintaining a sense of Jewish ethnicity and identity.\n\nHistorically, in the case of the Catholic Church, Catholics were obligated to marry only other Catholics (including those of the Eastern Rite), and marital conversion of the non-Catholic party was considered almost obligatory. However, it was permissible for a Catholic to marry an Independent/Old Catholic (who is not in communion with Rome) or non-Catholic baptized in a manner recognized by the Catholic Church as valid (i.e., mainline Christians such as Episcopalians or Lutherans, and Eastern Orthodox), but a dispensation had to be granted by a bishop and the non-Catholic party had to agree to raise the children as Catholics. Marriage to unbaptized persons, meaning all non-Christians and members of some Christian denominations (such as Unitarians or Mormons), was forbidden. Civil marriage can be the only alternative if a religious wedding is not possible under these circumstances.\n\nThe Iglesia ni Cristo, a non-trinitarian church that is the largest indigenous Christian denomination in the Philippines, requires non-adherents marrying members to convert to the religion prior to the wedding. Conversely, members found to have married outside of the religion are automatically expelled from the church. A church wedding is required after the civil one.\n\nSikhs may only marry Sikhs.\n\nHinduism has allowances for such practice even if Hinduism considers all religions are a way to God, but there can be political differences and so marital conversion is sometimes discouraged. Throughout Hindu history, interreligious marriages have also been a way for keeping the peace and building alliances.\n\n"}
{"id": "48841554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48841554", "title": "Mesopotamian divination", "text": "Mesopotamian divination\n\nMesopotamian divination was divination within the Mesopotamian period.\n\nPerceptual elements utilized in the practice of a divinatory technique included the astronomical (stars and meteorites), weather and the calendar, the configuration of the earth and waterways and inhabited areas, the outward appearance of inanimate objects and also vegetation, elements stemming from the behavior and the birth of animals, especially humans.\n\nMagic was used to counter a negative fate foretold by divination.\n\nThe earliest evidence for practice is (\"dating is true to this article\") from the fourth millennia B.C. (Sumeria), 2100 to 2000 BC (Neo-Sumeria) and 7th century BC (Babylonia), except for circa 2100 via the Babylonian Epic of Gilgamesh.\n\nThe area of land known as Sumer, within Mesopotamia, had a settled population within the 5th millennia BCE.\n\nA seal from Sumer, (of \"Mudgala,\" \"Lord of Edin,\" \"Minister to Uruas\" ) shows the word Azu, which meant water-divinator (lit. water knower), and additionally, physician. Lord Mudgala was the son of Uruas the Khad, who was the first dynasty of Sumeria (via Phoenicia) of the fourth millennium BCE.\n\nAnother artifact from Sumerian culture, a death amulet seal, shows the name Uzu-as' and is a resurrection amulet for the slave and seer of the Temple of the Sun, Uzu-as'. The part of the name, the word Uzu, meant in Sumerian, diviner, magician, or seer.\n\nThere is some suggestion people of this era knew of, and were experiencing, dreams as portents and sources for divination. The Neo-Sumerian period was from circa the years 2100 to 2000 BC.\n\nMost of the extant material showing evidence of divination practice are from the 7th century BCE and accordingly from Babylonian culture, which dates from 1850 BCE and later.\n\nThe Sumerian version of the Epic of Gilgamesh (circa 2100 ) has the mother of Gilgamesh interpreting a dream of Gilgamesh (a portent of the advent of Enkidu).\n\nDivination practice evolved through time from abductive positions to reckonings by virtue of an \"a priori\", and a tendency to make generalizations about causes.\n\nTwo types of divination existed in Mesopotamia, divine and human. Mesopotamian diviners most often used a liver for divination, or else by observing the sky.\n\nAnother difference delineated by Bottéro, is of two types of divination, both divine, but one artificial and the other natural; the artificial being divinations where through a process of \"computation and constant observation\" a future truth is gleaned; and natural, being a kind of gift from a god whereby direct inspired communication occurs from god to human.\n\nBottéro and Bahrani assert Mesopotamian divination was not just divination, and not limited in development to a type of superstition, but was developed to the extent to which it was in fact a science.\n\nStudy of portents from gods was vital within Mesopotamia throughout the entire time of its existence. The gods Šamaš and Adad were associated most closely with divination, Šamaš related to divination in decisions, and Adad for oracles and omens.\n\nCelestial divination was conducted for the purposes of the king and the state.\nDiviners observed the sun by day and the stars of the night sky, which they knew as šıṭır samé , or, šıṭır šamāmī , or, šıṭır burūmē (writing of the ). These three things refer to their thought of the stars of the sky interpreted as \"heavenly writing\". By way of the celestial, this type of divination was one of Babylon's three related celestial sciences, along with astronomy and horoscopy.\n\nThe descriptions šıṭır šamê and šıṭırti šamāmī are found sometimes within Neo-Babylonian royal inscriptions in special reference to those temples thought of a beautiful in a way of those temples being (lit.) \"like the heavenly writing\".\n\nImpetration is a type of divination which involved a diviner asking a deity to control a medium for the diviner to foretell the future. Media might include smoke, lots, or drops of oil in, or on, water.\n\nDivination by way of deductive thought whereby people understood the significance of forms and/ or, changes in a medium as showing and revealing a truth, is attested to within Old Babylonia, at a date of 1950 BCE\n\nDivination of this type involved using the liver, and possibly additionally the gall-bladder.\n\nExaminining internal organs to make predictions is known as extispicy.\n\nExtant sources reveal individuals were restricted from using extispicic means by a prohibitive cost for the performance of this divination so that royal members and nobles were mostly the only ones able to afford to know the future by this means.\n\nExisting sources for knowledge of hepatoscopy are clay models of divined livers.\n\nHepatoscopic practice and belief began during the third millennium BCE \n\nTo make predictions, diviners had two things to aid their making of a divinatory statement – lists of previous predictions and clay models made of previously interpreted livers.\n\nHepatoscopic predictions were made on the entrails of slaughtered animals (Oppenheim) by observing any kind of abnormality within the organ, such as atrophy, hypertrophy, displacement, or any type of unusual marking.\n\nIn Mesapotamian culture the liver was thought of as being the centre of thought and feeling.\n\nStudy of the human body and foretelling of an individual's fate from this study is known as physiognomics. Diviners (or perhaps associated others) made and circulated these texts to successive generations, handing down knowledge for nearly two millennia.\n\nPhysiognomic divination omens, in the first extant recorded, date from a period 2000 - 1600 BCE \n\nThe Mesopotamian dream interpreter was known as ša'il(t)u.\n\nNecromantic practice is shown by historical document to have begun from at least 900 BCE, and was relied upon for insight to a much greater extent within urban culture by the time of King Esarhaddon in the early 7th century BCE.\n\nIn literature, Babylonian divination material very often does not appear in the contents within written introductories, making it difficult for any reader who might want to know the contents of the text.\n\nEnūma Anu Enlil is a text of conclusions of divination.\n\nŠumma alammdimmǔ is a series of omens made by physiognomics dating to the close of the second millennium BCE. They are inscribed upon 27 clay tablets.\n\nThe study of divination within Babylonian culture belongs to the discipline of Assyriology and began in earnest sometime during the decade of the 1870s.\n\n"}
{"id": "35838253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35838253", "title": "Milang tribe", "text": "Milang tribe\n\nThe Milang tribe (alternately Millang, Malaa, or Holon) are a tribe of the Adi people of Arunachal Pradesh and nearby Jonai, in Assam, India.\n\nThe term \"Milang\" is an exonym, used by non-members of the tribe to refer to the tribe. Members of the tribe prefer the name \"Malaa\".\n\nMalaa people use a language unintelligible to most of the other Adi tribes. There has been several theories regarding this language; most Malaa maintain that they adopted their language from a people called Soi-sotem, who inhabited their lands long before Malaa settled there. The Malaa remember the Soi-sotem in their ballads as:\n\nSoi sotem were believed to come from Kalang Ade(dite), the highest peak in the land of the Milang beyond which is the land of Idu Mishmi people.\n\nThe Malaa are adherents of indigenous Donyi-Poloism, the practice of praying to the almighty Sun goddess and The Moon God. The priests, called \"Madar\" in Malaa, are popularly believed to be the intermediaries between the natural human world and Spiritual and supernatural world. Male priests are connected with act of divination while the female priests are related with healing of sickness. The priesthood is hereditary practice as it passed from generation to generation in a family. The ritual of sacrificing an animal as suggested by priest to cure a disease is called \"Lulu\". Whenever an epidemic or disease breaks down in a village,the villagers construct a gate at the entrance of the village and a dog is sacrificed with intestines sagging out and hanged.This ritual is called \"Lukan\".\n\n\"Ayid Madar Bemmanu\", a ritualistic dance is performed throughout the night in which priest bargains to appease the spirits to release the soul of diseased person and in exchange for gifts. The priest examines the chicken liver and reads omen and suggest the nature of disease and corresponding sacrifice to be made to heal the disease.\n\nGeographically the Malaa land lies approximately between 94-95 degree N latitude and 28-29 degree E longitude in Upper Siang district. The land of the Milangs extends to the \"Chage\" and \"Felo\" hills in the north which is land of the Idu tribe of Dibang valley. To south and the east they are bounded by the land of the Padams.\n\nTheir land is a rich source of the \"Aconitum\" plant (variously known as monk's hood or wolf's bane), the source of the powerful poison aconitine, which the Milang historically used on their spears and arrows during battle.The \"Anglo-Abor wars\" between 1835 and 1912 saw massive use of \"EMO'(called AMU in Millang) being supplied from Peki Modi village against the invading British forces.\n\nThe principal rivers are Sidip, Yamne, Yammeng, Satamak and Chapel besides many rivulets flowing through their land.\n\nMillang, Dalbing and Peki Modi are the important ancestral villages of the Malaa. However, as of today they are found residing in the hills and the valleys of East Siang, Upper Siang and Lower Dibang Valley Districts of Arunachal Pradesh.\n\nSurnames used by Malaa are based on family lineage. Common surnames include:\n\n\nMalaa bearing each surname are further subdivided into several clans. For example,the Modis have the following clans:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50648541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50648541", "title": "Nirvana Kanda", "text": "Nirvana Kanda\n\nNirvana Kanda is an ancient Prakrit Jain composition that describes the sacred sites where Jain sages have attained Nirvana It is also termed Nirvana Bhakti.\n\nIn inscription of 13th century that describes the construction of the Kirti Stambha at Chittor gives 10 shlokas that give a rendering in Sanskrit. \nA Hindi rendering Nirvana Kanda Bhasha was composed by Bhaiya Bhagvatidaas in Samvat 1741.\n\nIt is popularly recited on many occasions.\n\nIt is traditionally attributed to Acharya Kundakunda who is regarded to be the author of several Prakrit texts like Samayasar.\n\nThe text include:\n\nThe words \"अट्ठावयम्मि उसहो\" also occur in \"Tiloyapannatti\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19129762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19129762", "title": "Onolatry", "text": "Onolatry\n\nOnolatry is the supposed worship of the donkey. In Imperial Rome, the charge of onolatry was used by the pagans to taunt the Jews and first Christians. The association of Jews with donkeys was a common feature of Hellenic as well as Latin ethnographic and historical writings, and included accusations of worshipping a golden donkey head and even sacrificing foreigners to it at intervals. A famous example of this is the Alexamenos graffito.\n\nThe charge was likely first used against Jews in Egypt, where donkeys were at some points associated with Set, the murderer of Osiris who is in turn destroyed by Isis. It is first attested in the late first century BCE, and was used against Christians extensively in the first and second centuries CE before disappearing almost entirely in the third. The accusation against the Christians is discussed by Tertullian and Minucius Felix, among other early Christian apologists.\n\nArthur Bernard Cook, in an 1894 article, argued that there had been an ancient Mycenaean cult practicing onolatry, citing a fresco depicting donkey-headed figures found near a sacrificial pit and several carved gems apparently showing people wearing donkeys' heads and skins holding sacrificial objects, and further describing the diverse roles asses played in Ancient Greek mythology. His interpretation was challenged at the time by Andrew Lang in Longman's Magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1251101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251101", "title": "Parents Television Council", "text": "Parents Television Council\n\nThe Parents Television Council (PTC) is a United States-based censorship advocacy group founded by conservative Christian Republican Catholic activist L. Brent Bozell III in 1995. Through publications on its website including staff reviews, (non peer-reviewed) research reports, and web-based newsletters, the Council proclaims television programs or other entertainment products to be beneficial or harmful to the development of children and actively works to ensure broadcasters and content producers conform to the council's advice.\n\nCouncil activities include attempts to hold advertisers accountable for the content of the programs they sponsor, encouraging the development of what the council considers to be responsible, family-friendly entertainment, pressuring broadcasters to stop and/or limit television content the council claims to be harmful to children, as well as pressuring cable operators to unbundle cable channels so consumers can pick and pay for only the channels they want to watch.\n\nThe council launches several media campaigns a year against the producers and advertisers of television programs they perceive to be indecent. A typical campaign involves press releases declaring a particular program harmful (often with a tally of \"unacceptable\" character behavior or situations), the organized mass mailing of form letters and emails to advertising sponsors of unapproved programs, organized mass filing of complaints via the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) website complaint form, and direct threats of long, potentially costly FCC license challenges to local network affiliates planning to broadcast what the council considers harmful network programming.\n\nIn 2004 the FCC revealed the Parents Television Council as the primary source of most content complaints received. Throughout its existence, the Parents Television Council has been accused of promoting censorship.\n\nIn 1989, the Media Research Center (MRC) began monitoring the entertainment industry for alleged liberal bias through its Entertainment Division and newsletter \"TV, etc.\" MRC founder and president L. Brent Bozell III later felt that decency was declining on most prime-time television programming. The PTC began operations in 1995 following private planning meetings with Charlton Heston, Michael Medved, and others in the entertainment industry, who would eventually make up the Advisory Board of the PTC. After the release of its first annual \"Family Guide to Prime-Time Television\" following the 1995-1996 television season, the PTC hoped to hold the entertainment industry accountable for the indecency that it perceived to be prominent on prime-time television. By 1996, the organization had the support of several members of the U.S. Congress, including Joe Lieberman and Lamar S. Smith, and an estimated annual budget of $142,000.\n\nBy 1998, with an estimated membership of 120,000, comedian and former \"The Tonight Show\" host Steve Allen joined PTC as its Honorary Chairman, and PTC released a report questioning the accuracy of the TV Parental Guidelines ratings system and campaigning for advertisers to stop sponsoring programs that the PTC claimed were offensive. Allen launched a newspaper advertisement campaign promoting the PTC, which was published in many outlets including \"The New York Times\". The PTC was noted for criticizing such shows as \"Ally McBeal\", \"Dawson's Creek\", \"Ellen\", \"Friends\", and \"Spin City\". Its website was also introduced that year, and its annual budget had already surpassed $1 million. PTC rolled out another round of full-page newspaper advertisements in 1999; \"San Francisco Examiner\" television columnist Tim Goodman perceived Allen and the PTC of advocating complete censorship of television to allow only what PTC considered \"Family-Safe TV\".\n\nThe PTC lost nearly $1 million in 2008 and in 2009 received $2.9 million in revenue, a 29 percent drop from the previous year. In 2009 and 2010, the PTC cut its staff by 38 percent to save money.\n\nPTC was founded in 1995 by longtime political activist L. Brent Bozell III. Bozell is a prominent conservative activist who has, among other things, served as Executive Director of the Conservative Victory Committee, a political action committee that has supported the election of dozens of conservative candidates over the past ten years. He was also National Finance Chairman for Pat Buchanan's 1992 presidential campaign, and later president of the National Conservative Political Action Committee. Bozell was succeeded as PTC President by Timothy F. Winter. Winter served as Executive Director of the PTC for three years prior to becoming president. Prior to joining the PTC, Mr. Winter's 20-year career as a media executive included positions with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and NBC. Until 2015 when his position was terminated, Dan Isett, Director of Corporate and Government Affairs of the PTC, represented the PTC on the Consumer Advisory Committee of the Federal Communications Commission.\n\nThe PTC also has an Advisory Board consisting of politicians and entertainers working to assist the council in their goal of protecting children against profanity and violence in the media. Notable members of the advisory board include singer Pat Boone, former football player Mel Renfro, writer-producer Coleman Luck, country musician Billy Ray Cyrus, comedian and actor Tim Conway of CBS's \"The Carol Burnett Show\", former U.S. Senator from Kansas and 2008 presidential candidate Sam Brownback, film critic Michael Medved, star of 1980s soap opera \"Dallas\" Susan Howard, and ION Television producer Gary Johnson. In addition, the PTC has established numerous local chapters for most American media markets. Notable former Advisory Board members include - both of whom are now deceased - comedian Steve Allen, original host of NBC's \"The Tonight Show\", and C. Delores Tucker, participant in the Civil Rights Movement and activist against gangsta rap music; Allen is now given the title of National Honorary Chairman-Emeritus. Bahçeşehir University associate professor Christian Christiansen questioned the backgrounds of certain PTC advisory board members as not consistent with their stance on morality.\n\nThe website of the PTC features reports on what the group finds to be harmful content on television and regular writings from its staff. Their research is done with the support of their Entertainment Tracking System, an archive of prime-time television programming that they claim is the largest in the world. Such publications include:\n\nIn 2000, PTC's report \"What a Difference a Decade Makes\" allegedly stated that there was an increase in profanity, sex, and violence on television during the 1990s. The report also claimed that references to homosexuality increased the most during that decade - by 24-fold. In 2002, the PTC released a report claiming that there was an increase in profanity on network programming shown during the first hour of prime time. In a 2006 report titled \"Wolves in Sheep's Clothing\", analyst Kristen Fyfe perceived an increase in violent, profane, and sexual content in children's programming. Among its results, based on research during summer 2005, the PTC stated that \"Teen Titans\" was the most violent program, and claimed Cartoon Network had the most violent incidents. Richard Huff of the \"New York Daily News\" criticized the report for misinterpreting an episode of \"SpongeBob SquarePants\", \"Sailor Mouth\", over its intent to satirize profanity implicitly.\n\nFollowing the 2005–06 television season, PTC issued a report \"Faith in a Box\" that analyzed depictions of religion in primetime television. The study stated that most positive references to religion were on reality shows such as \"\", while claiming that scripted shows tended to be more negative towards it. The report also ranked Fox as the \"most anti-religious network\", followed by NBC, UPN, ABC, CBS, and the WB. In 2008, PTC published a report titled \"Happily Never After\", using analysis of several primetime shows early in the 2007-2008 television season to assert that extramarital sex is favored on television shows. Ian O'Doherty of \"The Irish Independent\" asked regarding the PTC's marriage depiction study: \"After all, would you rather watch people having fun or would you rather watch a realistic depiction of marriage, which...would simply be an hour of two people sullenly chewing their food, pausing occasionally only to throw each other filthies and occasionally grumbling under their breath how the biggest regret of their life was ever setting eyes on you and that their mother was right all along?\" PTC released a report in October 2009 stating that prime-time television shows on broadcast networks had twice as many depictions of violence against women in 2009 than in 2004.\n\nIn November 2010, the PTC released a study, \"Habitat for Profanity: Broadcast TV's Sharp Increase in Foul Language\", which claims that there was a sharp rise in the usage of profanity between 2005 and 2010—during the 8PM to 9PM ET/PT time period commonly referred to them as the Family Viewing Hour, the PTC claimed that there were 111 instances of profanity during this hour in 2010 versus 10 in 2005; during all of prime time, 276 instances in 2010 against 11 in 2005. The study claimed that there was a 69.3% increase in prime time in general between 2005 and 2010, with the Fox network being heavily accused of bringing a 269% increase for the network during that period. The study also claimed instances in which there was profanity, but the offending word was bleeped out.\n\nThe PTC's activities extend to evaluation, rating, and educating around broadcast TV programs according to a traffic light system across three categories of sex, violence and profanity, accumulating to an overall rating based on the ratings of these three categories. The guide has been in use since the 1995–96 season using the traffic light system. In the PTC's definition of its traffic light system, green light indicates that the program is \"appropriate for all ages\", a yellow light indicates that the program \"would be unsuitable for children under the age of 14\", and a red light indicates that the program is \"appropriate for adult audiences only\".\n\nEvery television season since 1995–96, the council has released a list of the best and worst prime-time television programs for family viewing. The PTC's website includes the guide from the 1996-97 season at the earliest. Starting with the 2005–2006 season, their list was based on their traffic light system as well as Nielsen Media Research ratings of viewership among children ages 2–17 of certain shows. Popular shows that have frequently been praised as the most family-friendly programs on television include \"George Lopez\", \"7th Heaven\", \"Touched by an Angel\", \"Home Improvement\", \"Family Matters\", \"Sabrina the Teenage Witch\", \"Boy Meets World\", \"\", \"American Idol\", \"Dancing with the Stars\", \"NBC Sunday Night Football\", \"Deal or No Deal\", and \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire\". Popular shows frequently named \"Worst of the Season\" include \"American Dad!\", \"\", \"House\", \"Two and a Half Men\", \"Ally McBeal\", \"Dawson's Creek\", \"Grey's Anatomy\", \"The Drew Carey Show\", \"Family Guy\", \"Friends\", \"The O.C.\", \"Spin City\", \"That '70s Show\" and \"Will and Grace\".\n\nOn a weekly basis, the PTC publishes reviews of what they consider to be the best and worst television programming for family viewing, authored by the various entertainment analysts at the council. Seth MacFarlane, creator of \"Family Guy\", compared the PTC's frequent negative reviews of the series to \"hate mail from Hitler\" and \"They're literally terrible human beings. I've read their newsletter, I've visited their website, and they're just rotten to the core. For an organization that prides itself on 'Christian' values...they spend their entire day hating people.\" MacFarlane became a target again when the PTC protested the Academy Awards' decision to have him host the 85th ceremony. \"So You Think You Can Rate a TV Show?\", the title being a play on the title of Fox television series \"So You Think You Can Dance\", is a weekly column the PTC began in July 2007 to claim that networks inaccurately rate their shows based on the TV Parental Guidelines, whether the network applied the improper age-based rating (such as TV-PG or TV-14) or failed to include the proper content descriptors (such as \"L\" for language or \"V\" for violence).\n\nTo recognize excellence in the media, the Parents Television Council awards its Seal of Approval to television shows, movies, home products, and advertisers that provide or sponsor content it deems to be \"family-friendly\". It is divided into two categories: Entertainment and Advertiser. Popular television shows that have been awarded include \"7th Heaven\", \"American Idol\", \"\", \"Everybody Loves Raymond\", \"George Lopez\", \"JAG\", \"Reba\", \"Smallville\", \"Touched by an Angel\", \"The West Wing\", and \"The Wonderful World of Disney\". Also receiving the Entertainment Seal of Approval are TiVo's KidZone television filtering service, The Jimmy Wilson Films Children`s Adventure Series, the Sky Angel Christian television service, and the CleanFlicks DVD filtering product.\n\nIn 1999, the PTC launched a campaign against the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), now World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), complaining that their \"SmackDown!\" program contained levels of sexuality and violence unbecoming prime time programming. In the campaign, Bozell said that four children had been killed by peers emulating professional wrestling moves learned from the program. With these allegations, Bozell and various PTC members began meeting with representatives of the advertising departments of various companies that advertised on \"SmackDown!\" to persuade them to withdraw sponsorship. The PTC also suggested that between 30 and 40 advertisers had pulled their commercials from WWF programming, an assertion that was not true.\n\nOn November 9, 2000, the WWF filed a lawsuit against the PTC in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, claiming that the PTC's statements were false and constituted defamation. The WWF also filed a copyright infringement lawsuit against the PTC for using clips from WWF programs in their promotional videos. The PTC filed for dismissal of the suit, but on May 24, 2001, U.S. district court Judge Denny Chin denied the PTC's motion on the basis that the WWF's lawsuit had merit. The PTC and the WWF settled out of court and, as part of the settlement agreement, the PTC paid the WWF $3.5 million USD and Bozell issued a public apology, stating that it was wrong to blame the World Wrestling Federation or any of its programs for the deaths of children and that the original statements had been based on what was later found to be false information designed by people close to the Lionel Tate case to blame the death of Tiffany Eunick on the WWF.\n\nDuring the conflict the WWF created the Right to Censor (RTC) stable, a group of wrestlers that parodied the PTC by portraying them as self-righteous moral crusaders.\n\nIn 2003, the PTC unsuccessfully campaigned for the FCC to take action against the NBC television network in response to the use of the word \"fucking\" by Bono, lead singer for the rock band U2, during the network's January 2003 telecast of the Golden Globe Awards. Among an audience of nearly 20 million, the FCC received only 234 complaints, 217 of which came from the PTC. In October 2003, the FCC decided not to fine NBC because Bono's obscenity was ruled as fleeting and not describing sexual or excretory functions, the FCC's standard for fining a network for indecency. After the PTC filed an Application for Review to the FCC, in March 2004 the FCC decided that the word was indecent by law but still decided not to fine NBC; however, the ruling was to serve as a warning to networks that there would be a \"zero tolerance\" policy towards obscene language willfully used during the daytime. However, the PTC's complaints about profanity used by presenter Nicole Richie in the December 10, 2003 broadcast of the \"Billboard Music Awards\" led the FCC to conclude that the language violated decency law.\n\nThe PTC began attracting more attention after it filed around 65,000 complaints to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) about the Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime show controversy, in which one of performer Janet Jackson's nipple shielded breasts, was exposed for 9/16ths of a second. FCC chairman Michael Powell stated that the number of indecency complaints to the FCC had risen from 350 in the years 2000 and 2001, to 14,000 in 2002 and 240,000 in 2003. It was also found that the PTC had generated most of the indecency complaints received by the Federal Communications Commission. In July 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit voided the fine.\n\nAfter the halftime show, the PTC launched five more FCC complaint drives, starting March 2004 with an episode of Fox's \"That '70s Show\" titled \"Happy Jack\", which revolved around character Eric Forman being caught masturbating. The beginning of the 2004–2005 television season sparked four new campaigns, the first being against NBC's animated series \"Father of the Pride\", stating that it contained a \"barrage of sexual innuendo and profanity\" while being promoted \"from the creators of \"Shrek\"\", which they felt would potentially attract children to watching the series. That campaign led to over 11,000 email complaints to the FCC. Later, shortly after CBS broadcast the word \"fuck\" during an airing of \"Big Brother 5\", the PTC took action again, this time claiming that CBS ignored a warning from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) that there would be zero tolerance toward unbleeped profanity. However, those complaints became moot when Viacom, then-owners of CBS, settled with the FCC for $3.5 million regarding all allegedly indecent programming broadcast in the years around 2003 and 2004, including the \"Big Brother 5\" episode in question. In March 2006, the FCC ruled that \"Father of the Pride\" was not indecent. Following were complaints about an October 2004 episode of ABC's short-lived teen drama \"Life As We Know It\", which the PTC felt was sexually charged.\n\nThe PTC started off 2005 with their campaign against the \"Without a Trace\" episode \"Our Sons and Daughters\", leading to CBS being fined for indecency in March 2006; the PTC objected to the depiction of teenagers participating in an orgy in that episode. CBS argued that the episode \"featured an important and socially relevant storyline warning parents to exercise greater supervision of their teenagers.\" The FCC fined CBS $3.63 million in March 2006 for this episode, but after a court settlement, the network agreed to pay $300,000 in fines. At the end of January 2005, the FCC rejected a set of complaints that PTC filed between October 2001 and February 2004 for allegedly indecent programs such as NBC's \"Friends\", the WB's \"Gilmore Girls\", and Fox's \"The Simpsons\". The FCC received complaints from the PTC in the summer over an unedited broadcast of the lyric \"who the fuck are you?\" in The Who's song \"Who Are You\" from the \"Live 8\" concert broadcast July 2, 2005 on ABC stations on the East Coast.\n\nIn 2006, PTC requested that the FCC deny broadcast license renewal for Salt Lake City CBS station KUTV because they felt that the broadcast of the \"Without a Trace\" episode that was ruled indecent violated community standards and that CBS failed to take action to reduce indecent content following the FCC fines. Subsequently, CBS agreed to pay the FCC $300,000 to settle the KUTV license challenge.\nStarting from December 2007, the organization demanded that CBS cancel its plan to rebroadcast an edited version of the Showtime drama \"Dexter\", whose title character was a serial killer and police forensics analyst, because it felt that the program would glorify murder even with the edits. By early February 2008, the Council claimed to have collected 17,000 complaints to CBS.\n\nOn January 25, 2008, the FCC proposed an estimated $1.4 million fine against ABC for a scene of female nudity in the \"NYPD Blue\" episode \"Nude Awakening\" aired on February 25, 2003. Because the episode aired outside the indecency \"safe harbor\" in the Central and Mountain Time Zones, the fine applied only to ABC stations in those zones. The PTC praised the FCC's action. However, PTC president Winter condemned ABC's decision to appeal the fine in federal court. PTC has also criticized the Third Circuit Court of Appeals' decision to void the FCC's fine for the Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime show. TV series that the PTC has targeted for FCC complaints in 2008 have included NBC's \"Today\" morning show and CBS primetime programs \"Big Brother 10\", \"\", and \"Two and a Half Men\". Profanity was the main concern for \"Today\" and \"Big Brother 10\", the extremely brief exposure of contestant Marcus Lehman's penis for \"Survivor: Gabon\", and a \"lap-dance\" scene for \"Two and a Half Men\". The PTC's first complaint in 2009 was over sexual content in an episode of \"Family Guy\" titled \"Family Gay\". Later in 2009, the PTC urged affiliates of The CW Television Network to pre-empt a \"Gossip Girl\" episode to be aired November 9; the episode would reportedly contain a threesome scene. In response to Adam Lambert's performance of his song \"For Your Entertainment\" at the end of the 2009 American Music Awards broadcast on ABC, PTC urged viewers to complain to the FCC if living in an area where the performance was shown before 10 p.m. local time. PTC complained that the performance contained a simulation of oral sex. Lambert's performance reportedly was broadcast around 11 p.m. Eastern and Pacific time, \"outside the FCC's usual 6am-10pm time frame prohibiting the broadcast of indecent material\". ABC also received about 1,500 telephoned complaints.\n\nIn January 2010, the PTC launched a complaint campaign after the \"American Dad!\" episode \"Don't Look a Smith Horse in the Mouth\" aired in January 2010. The FCC fined Fox $25,000 on June 4, stating that they failed to respond to an inquiry of 100,000 complaints about the episode. A month later, Fox slammed the decision, claiming that it was \"unconstitutional\". On May 20, 2010, the PTC announced that it plans to target CBS and its affiliates after the network announced that the new sitcom \"$#*! My Dad Says\" was added to the 2010-2011 fall TV lineup. The PTC cites both the show's title and its Thursday 8:30PM timeslot as reasons. The series is based on the popular Twitter account created by Justin Halpern, who will also serve as one of the co-producers on the show. CBS defended its decision and says that it is working with the account's creator and its content will be toned down for the program before the series debuts in September.\n\nIn October 2010, the PTC targeted an episode of the Fox series \"Glee\", stating that the episode featured outfits that were scantily clad and guest-star Britney Spears going shopping in lingerie, calling it, \"an endorsement of narcotics abuse, public masturbation, and school-sanctioned burlesque.\" They were also criticizing it for making an episode idolizing Britney in the first place, stating: \"Perhaps most troubling is the deification of a troubled popstar into a symbol of empowerment and self-esteem.\" On October 20, PTC criticized \"GQ\" magazine for featuring three \"Glee\" stars posing in risque outfits; the PTC statement said that the photoshoot \"borders on pedophilia.\"\n\nThe PTC called on the United States Department of Justice and the Judiciary Committees of both houses of Congress to investigate whether MTV violated child pornography laws in casting teenaged actors in \"Skins\", a remake of the British TV series of the same name. MTV rated \"Skins\" \"TV-MA\", meaning the show is not suitable for audiences under 17. The \"Los Angeles Times\" responded in an editorial: \"...looking for government remedies is ineffective and unwise; we suspect the network's editors are smart enough to skirt prosecution. The Federal Communications Commission doesn't regulate the content of cable networks, and even if it did, a crackdown on shows like \"Skins\" would be a bad idea, because adults should be able to watch whatever they like on cable and federal attempts to protect kids from adult programming have never been successful.\"\n\nIn May 2005 Carl's Jr. introduced its \"Spicy BBQ Six Dollar Burger\" in a television advertisement featuring celebrity Paris Hilton in a swimsuit, soaping up a Bentley Arnage while leaning on it, and then eating the burger. A similar ad with Hilton for Hardee's hamburger chain was aired in June 2005.\nThe Parents Television Council and other media watchdog groups criticized the commercial for being shown during programs that were very likely to be watched by children. Melissa Caldwell, PTC research director, said, \"This commercial is basically soft-core porn. The way she moves, the way she puts her finger in her mouth—it's very suggestive and very titillating.\" The group mobilized more than one million members to contact the restaurant chain and voice their concern and claimed that \"[i]f this television commercial were to go unchallenged it would set a new standard for acceptable television commercial content.\" Caldwell, then-president Bozell, and then-executive director Winter appeared on various news programs such as \"Good Morning America\", \"Today\", \"The Early Show\", \"American Morning\", and \"The O'Reilly Factor\" to discuss this issue. Andy Puzder, CEO of Carl's Jr., says the group needs to \"get a life...This isn't Janet Jackson—there is no nipple shield in this,\" referring to the Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime-show controversy. He continued, \"There is no nudity, there is no sex act — it's a beautiful model in a swimsuit washing a car.\" In addition to featuring the ad on their web site, Carl's Jr. also set up another website playing a longer version of the commercial.\n\nPTC accused television commercials for Hardee's \"biscuit holes\" food product of suggesting double entendres. The commercial featured consumers suggesting \"A-holes\" and \"B-holes\" as nicknames for the biscuit holes. Boddie-Noell Enterprises, which owned 350 Hardee's restaurants in four states, refused to show the ads in its respective markets. Ben Mayo Boddie, chairman of Boddie-Noell, wrote a letter to the PTC condemning the ads as well.\n\nIn September 2007, the PTC launched a campaign to get airlines in America to reduce the number of \"PG-13\" and \"R\"-rated films shown as in-flight entertainment. Consequently, Heath Shuler, Democratic representative of North Carolina, introduced the Family Friendly Flights Act of 2007 bill to require airlines to set aside \"child-safe\" viewing areas for families to sit in planes. The bill never became law.\n\nTwice has the PTC targeted video-hosting website YouTube in its campaigns and statements. PTC called for NBC to reconsider uploading the uncensored clip of the \"Saturday Night Live\" novelty song \"Dick in a Box\" on NBC's site and YouTube channel. In 2008, the PTC released a report \"The \"New\" Tube: A Content Analysis of YouTube—the Most Popular Online Video Destination\", which praised YouTube for filtering adult content but criticized the site for not filtering profanity and other explicit content from comments sections or videos.\n\nIn October 2010, \"The New York Times\" reported that former PTC vice president of development Patrick W. Salazar had accused PTC of mishandling hundreds of thousands of mailings to donors and members. Based on Internal Revenue Service filings, the American Institute of Philanthropy rated PTC \"C+\" on financial efficiency. Salazar also disputed the PTC's official membership figure of 1.3 million and estimated that at most 12,000 people respond to annual fundraisers. Although Salazar stated that he left the PTC in November 2009, the PTC said that it fired Salazar and that Salazar was trying to extort money from the organization.\n\nThe PTC also criticized \"The Muppets\" for not meeting \"family viewing\" guidelines and suggested a boycott, based on the mockumentary format of the series including mentions of plastic surgery, \"inside\" business language being used in a crude manner, and the Muppets in a bar consuming alcoholic beverages.\n\nThe PTC also criticized the U.S. version of \"Sex Box\", due to it being a live sex show on basic cable.\n\nOn its website, PTC states that its mission is to \"promote and restore responsibility and decency to the entertainment industry in answer to America's demand for positive, family-oriented television programming.\" The PTC believes that the entertainment industry—not only television but also music, movies, and video games as well—and its sponsors share responsibility with parents for children's television viewing habits. It therefore believes that television is harming children through a perceived \"gratuitous\" amount of sex, violence, and profanity. Its activism has influenced the removal of potentially objectionable content from certain shows, such as the fourth season of the popular CBS crime drama \"\". Increased government regulation of broadcasting is another viewpoint supported by PTC. PTC considers itself nonpartisan; others have considered the PTC to be bipartisan or socially conservative. Robyn Blumner of the \"St. Petersburg Times\" called the PTC \"the Gladys Kravitz of public advocacy\" in a column of hers and believed the PTC supported a federal policy on broadcast decency she called \"Big Nanny run amok\".\n\nSince the V-Chip was established in conjunction with the TV Parental Guidelines ratings system, PTC has frequently accused the guidelines of having inaccuracy and low standards. In 1997, PTC was twice as likely to rate a show with the toughest rating classification, \"red light\" in the PTC's case, and \"TV-14\" in the Guidelines. Bill Berkowitz quoted PTC president Bozell as stating, based on PTC research, that \"the current ratings system and V-chip are failures.\" In response to a V-Chip advertising campaign in the summer of 2006, Bozell proposed instead that cable companies either apply FCC-style broadcast television standards or offer choice in ordering channels. Television Watch considers PTC's reporting on the V-chip inaccurate and ideologically charged.\n\nThe PTC is an avid supporter of \"a la carte\" cable television services to allow families to choose only the cable television channels that are appropriate for their children, and also impose the same decency standards already in place on broadcast television on cable channels. Frequently, the Council has criticized programs on BET, Comedy Central, E!, FX, MTV, Spike, TNT, and VH1 because they claim some of the content aired on those channels is inappropriate for younger viewers. On the other side of the issue, the PTC has awarded its \"Seal of Approval\" to cable networks Disney Channel and Hallmark Channel for their original programs several years ago.\n\nOn June 14, 2007, United States Representatives Dan Lipinski (Democratic, Illinois) and Jeff Fortenberry (Republican, Nebraska) introduced into legislation the Family and Consumer Choice Act of 2007, which intends to allow families to choose and pay for only the cable television channels that they want to watch. In September 2007, the PTC launched a new website, \"HowCableShouldBe.com\", to allow cable customers to see how much they are paying for their monthly cable bill currently.\n\nIn August 2013, the PTC released a statement criticizing MTV for the airing of a performance by Miley Cyrus during its Video Music Awards and urged Congress to pass the Television Consumer Freedom Act.\n\nIn April 2008, PTC released \"The Rap on Rap\", a study covering hip-hop and R&B music videos rotated on programs \"106 & Park\" and \"Rap City\", both shown on BET, and \"Sucker Free\" on MTV. PTC urged advertisers to withdraw sponsorship of those programs, whose videos PTC stated targeted children and teenagers \"with adult content...once every 38 seconds\". PTC also warned radio stations about playing the Britney Spears song \"If U Seek Amy\" over concerns it contained an audible use of an obscenity. In response to the music video to Miley Cyrus' song \"Who Owns My Heart\", the PTC stated that it felt it was \"unfortunate that she would participate in such a sexualized video like this one\"; Miley Cyrus' father Billy Ray Cyrus sat on the PTC Advisory Board at the time.\n\nIn May 2011, the PTC took issue with Rihanna's music video for her song \"Man Down.\" In the video Rihanna portrays a woman who resorts to killing the man who had previously raped her. They claimed the video promoted gun crime and murder, while the pop star said she wanted to be a voice to victims. After the video became the most viewed YouTube video that week, she sarcastically used Twitter to thank the PTC in helping her make the video such a success.\n\nThe PTC has been frequently criticized for hypocrisy, slanted reporting and only criticizing shows that are aimed at adults. Critics of the PTC have alleged that it supports increased governmental censorship of television by lobbying the FCC for indecency enforcement for certain television shows and inaccurately reporting on the V-Chip in order to further their agenda.\n\n\"Family Guy\" creator Seth MacFarlane, who is frequently criticized by the PTC, said in \"The Advocate\"\n\nIn January 2005, Bahçeşehir University associate professor Christian Christiansen questioned the backgrounds of certain PTC Advisory Board members (L. Brent Bozell III as 'National Finance Chairman for the 1992 \"Buchanan for President\" campaign' of \"neo-fascist Pat Buchanan\"; Susan Howard's portrayal of adulterous Donna Culver Krebbs on TV series \"Dallas\", which series \"was soaked in scantily-clad women, emotional cruelty, violence, alcoholism, and marital infidelity\"; Coleman Luck as 'writer and producer' ... 'on \"\"Otherworld\",\" \"\"The Equalizer\",\" \"\"[Gabriel's] Fire\",\" \"\"Matrix\",\" and \"\"The Burning Zone\" [which] ... included a fair amount of death and violence'; William Bennett as 'a very popular guest at a number of Las Vegas casinos ... gambling'; Bruce Jarchow appearing in 'less family-friendly products ... such as \"The Puppet Masters\" (R-rated horror), \"Mad Dog and Glory\" (R-rated comedy) and \"Married...With Children\" (crude Fox sitcom packed with blatant sexual banter)'; Billy Ray Cyrus, who 'starred in the TV pilot \"Mulholland Drive\" made by erotic, anti-family values filmmaker David Lynch' and 'had the lead in the independent film mega-flop, \"Radical Jack\",\" the synopsis of which highlights the lunacy of Cyrus being on the board of the PTC: \"CIA agent Jack Reynolds (Billy Ray Cyrus) has a score to settle. Five years ago, his family was slaughtered after he tried to break up an illegal arms ring. But now he's discovered the location of the gunrunner who killed his family--and he's going undercover and taking on a whole crooked town in order to get his man!\"'; and John Carvelli, 'who, in 1987, \"took part in a fact-finding mission in Nicaragua and Honduras with the National Conservative Foundation during the Nicaraguan civil war.\"'), as not consistent with their stance on morality.\n\nIn a December 2005 column of his, \"Advertising Age\" columnist Simon Dumenco claimed that the PTC is \"very very afraid of gay TV characters\". \"Culture Watch\" columnist Christopher Gildemeister defended the PTC as being \"not homophobic\" but simply opposed to \"sexual references or innuendo (of any variety, hetero, homo or other) aired where children might be exposed to them.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9559887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9559887", "title": "Pipa Jing", "text": "Pipa Jing\n\nPipa Jing (Chinese: 琵琶精; Pinyin: Pípa Jīng), a yaojing changed from jade pipa, is a fictional character featured within the famed classic Chinese novel \"Fengshen Yanyi\". \n\nPipa Jing is one of three renowned female spectres under the legendary Nu Wa. After Pipa Jing- as like both Daji and Splendor - was ordered by Nu Wa to bring chaos to the Shang Dynasty, Pipa Jing would not be shown until the time of chapter 16. At one point in time when Pipa Jing had returned from a visit with her friend, Daji, she happened to find Jiang Ziya with a large crowd of people around the fortune telling studio. Thus, Pipa Jing would turn herself into a very attractive young woman and approach Jiang for a fortune. \n\nUnfortunately for Pipa Jing however, Jiang could see that she was truly an evil spectre in disguise; the palm reading still continued however. Once Jiang became more forceful and would not let go of Pipa Jing's palm, she began to scream and ask for help with the people around her. Due to this, Jiang had no choice but to smack her over the head with an ink stone -- which would kill her mortal body. Following this point, Jiang would never let go of Pipa Jing's palm so that the true spectre could not escape. Soon enough, Pipa Jing was set around a large amount of firewood and set aflame after varied jujus were set as to prevent her true self from escaping. Once everyone realized that even her hair never burned or even got caught on fire, Pipa Jing would end up being burned to death once Jiang unleashed a triple divine fire combined with shattering lightning. Five years following her death, Pipa Jing would finally be revived once again after Daji gathered the essence of both the moon and the sun.\n\n"}
{"id": "1593862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1593862", "title": "Pole sitting", "text": "Pole sitting\n\nPole sitting is the practice of sitting on top of a pole (such as a flagpole) for extended lengths of time, generally used as a test of endurance. A small platform is typically placed at the top of the pole for the sitter. Led by the stunt actor and former sailor Alvin \"Shipwreck\" Kelly, flagpole sitting was a fad in the mid-to-late 1920s, but mostly died out after the start of the Great Depression. \nPole sitting is related to the ancient ascetic discipline of stylitism, or column-sitting. St. Simeon Stylites the Elder (c. 388–459) of Antioch (now Turkey) was a column-sitter who sat on a small platform on a column for 36 years.\n\nFlagpole sitting was a fad in the mid-to-late 1920s. The fad was begun by stunt actor and former sailor Alvin \"Shipwreck\" Kelly, who sat on a flagpole, either on a dare by a friend or as a publicity stunt. Shipwreck's initial 1924 sit lasted 13 hours and 13 minutes. It soon became a fad with other contestants setting records of 12, 17 and 21 days. In 1929, Shipwreck decided to reclaim the title. He sat on a flagpole for 49 days in Atlantic City, New Jersey, setting a new record. The following year, 1930, his record was broken by Bill Penfield in Strawberry Point, Iowa who sat on a flagpole for 51 days and 20 hours, until a thunderstorm forced him down. Flagpole sitting in the 1920s was a major part of the decade.\nFor the most part, pole sitting died out after 1929, with the onset of the Depression.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18812559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18812559", "title": "Quintus Valerius Soranus", "text": "Quintus Valerius Soranus\n\nQuintus Valerius Soranus (b. \"circa\" 140–130 BC, d. 82 BC) was a Latin poet, grammarian, and tribune of the people in the Late Roman Republic. He was executed in 82 BC while Sulla was dictator, ostensibly for violating a religious prohibition against speaking the arcane name of Rome, but more likely for political reasons. The \"cognomen\" Soranus is a toponym indicating that he was from Sora.\n\nA single elegiac couplet survives more or less intact from his body of work. The two lines address Jupiter as an all-powerful begetter who is both male and female. This androgynous, unitarian conception of deity, possibly an attempt to integrate Stoic and Orphic doctrine, has made the fragment of interest in religious studies.\n\nValerius Soranus is also credited with a little-recognized literary innovation: Pliny the Elder says he was the first writer to provide a table of contents to help readers navigate a long work.\n\nCicero has an interlocutor in his \"De oratore\" praise Valerius Soranus as “most cultured of all who wear the toga,” and Cicero lists him and his brother Decimus among an educated elite of \"socii et Latini\"; that is, those who came from allied polities on the Italian peninsula rather than from Rome, and those whose legal status was defined by Latin right rather than full Roman citizenship. The municipality of Sora was near Cicero's native Arpinum, and he refers to the Valerii Sorani as his friends and neighbors. Soranus was also a friend of Varro and is mentioned more than once in that scholar's multi-volume work on the Latin language.\n\nThe son of Q. Valerius Soranus is thought to have been the Quintus Valerius Orca who was praetor in 57 BC. Orca had worked for Cicero's return to public life and is among Cicero's correspondents in the \"Epistulae ad familiares\" (\"Letters to Friends and Family\").\n\nCicero presents the Valerii brothers of Sora as well schooled in Greek and Latin literature, but less admirable for their speaking ability. As Italians, they would have been lacking to Cicero's ears in the smooth sophistication (\"urbanitas\") and faultless pronunciation of the best native Roman orators. This attitude of social exclusivity may account for why Valerius Soranus, whose scholarly interests and friendships might otherwise suggest a conservative temperament, would have found his place in the civil wars of the 80s on the side of the popularist Marius rather than that of the patrician Sulla. It might also be noted that Cicero's expression of this attitude is double-edged: like Marius and the Valerii Sorani, he was also a man from a \"municipium\", and had to overcome the same obstructing biases that he adopts and expresses.\n\nIn 82 BC, the year of his death, Valerius Soranus was or had been a tribune of the people (\"tribunus plebis\"), a political office open only to those of plebeian rather than patrician birth.\n\nThe fullest account of the infamous death of Valerius Soranus is given by Servius, who says he was executed for revealing the secret name of Rome:\n\nServius's account presents several difficulties. Crucifixion was a punishment generally reserved for slaves in the Late Republic; Valerius Maximus, a historian in the early Principate, reckoned that the punishment should not be inflicted on those of Roman blood even when they \"deserved\" it. Moreover, a tribune's person was by law sacrosanct. Finally, it is unclear whether the ten tribunes should possess the knowledge of Rome's secret name, or in what manner Soranus would have publicized it. Among sources earlier than Servius, both Pliny the Elder and Plutarch note that Valerius Soranus was punished for this violation. It has been suggested that the name was revealed in his one work for which a title is known, the \"Epoptides.\" The title, if interpreted as it sometimes is to mean \"tutelary deities,\" offers an apt context. But elsewhere Servius — so too Macrobius — implies that the name remained unrecorded.\n\nQuintus Valerius Soranus has been identified with the Q. Valerius, described as \"philologos\" and \"philomathes\" (“a lover of literature and learning”), whom Plutarch says was a supporter of Marius. This man was put to death by Pompey in Sicily, where he would have accompanied Carbo, the consular colleague of the recently murdered Cinna. Carbo was executed by Pompey.\n\nIn 1906, Conrad Cichorius published an article that organized the available evidence for the life of Valerius Soranus and argued that his execution was a result of the Sullan proscription in 82. The view of his death as politically motivated has prevailed among modern scholars:\n\nBut if Varro originated the story, his reasons are hard to tease out of the roiled politics of the Late Republic. Although Varro was the friend of Valerius Soranus, in the civil war of the 40s he was on the side of the Pompeians; Caesar, however, not only pardoned him, but gave him significant appointments. The biases of the contemporary sources were not lost on Plutarch in his account of the killing:\n\nSpeaking the name could be construed as a political protest and also an act of treason, as the revelation would expose the tutelary deity and leave the city unprotected. This belief rests on the power of utterance to \"call forth\" the deity \"(evocatio)\", so that enemies in possession of the true and secret name could divert the divine protection to themselves. The intellectual historian of the Republic Elizabeth Rawson ventured cautiously that Soranus's \"motive remains unclear, but may have been political.\" More vigorous is the view of Luigi Alfonsi, who argued that Soranus revealed the name deliberately so that the Italian municipalities could appropriate it and break Rome's monopoly of power.\n\nAnother interpretation of these events, worth noting despite its fictional context, is that of historical novelist Colleen McCullough, who melds political and religious motives in a psychological characterization. In \"Fortune's Favorites\", McCullough's Soranus “screams aloud” the arcane name because the atrocities committed during the civil war had rendered Rome unworthy of divine protection:\n\nThe single couplet that survives from Valerius Soranus's vast work as a poet, grammarian, and antiquarian is quoted by St. Augustine in the \"De civitate Dei\" (7.9) to support his view that the tutelary deity of Rome was the Capitoline Jupiter:\n\"Iuppiter omnipotens regum rerumque deumque\n\n\"progenitor genetrixque deum, deus unus et omnes …\"\nThe syntax poses difficulties in attempts at translation, and there may be some corruption of the text. It seems to say something like \"Jupiter All-powerful, of kings and the material world and of gods the Father (\"progenitor\"), the Mother (\"genetrix\") of gods, God that is One and All … .\" Augustine says that his source for the quotation is a work on religion (now lost) by Varro, with whose conception of deity Augustine argues throughout Book 7 of the \"De civitate Dei\". The view of Varro, and presumably of Soranus, was that Jupiter represents the whole universe which emits and receives seeds (\"semina\"), encompassing the generative powers of Earth the Mother as well as Sky the Father. This unitarianism is a Stoic concept, and Soranus is usually counted among the Stoics of Rome, perhaps of the contemporary school of Panaetius. The unity of opposites in deity, including divine androgyny, is also characteristic of Orphic doctrine, which may have impressed itself on Stoicism.\n\nThe couplet may or may not come from the \"Epoptides\". The title is mentioned only in Pliny, and none of the known fragments of Soranus can be attributed to this large-scale work with certainty. Soranus's innovation in providing a table of contents — most likely a list of \"capita rerum\" (\"subject headings\") at the beginning — suggests that the \"Epoptides\" was an encyclopedic or compendious prose work. Alternatively, the \"Epoptides\" may have been a long didactic poem. Soranus is known to have written didactic poetry and is likely to have been an influence when Lucretius chose verse as his medium for philosophical subject matter.\n\nThe most extensive argument regarding the \"Epoptides\" is that of Thomas Köves-Zulauf. Much of what can be conjectured about the work derives from the interpretation of its title. The Greek verb ἐποπτεύω (\"epopteuo\") has the basic meaning of \"to watch, oversee\" but also \"to become an ἐπόπτης (\"epoptes\", \"initiate,\" feminine \"epoptis\" and plural \"epoptides\"),\" the highest grade of initiate at the Eleusinian mysteries. Köves-Zulauf argued that Soranus's \"Epoptides\" was an extended treatment of mystery religions, and the title is sometimes translated into German as \"Mystikerinen.\" The classicist and mythographer H.J. Rose, on the contrary, insisted that the \"Epoptides\" had nothing to do with initiates. Elizabeth Rawson held with \"Initiated Women\"; the Loeb Classical Library offers \"Lady Initiates\"; Nicholas Horsfall is satisfied with \"The Watchers\".\n\nKöves-Zulauf maintains that the \"epoptides\" of the title represent the Stoic conception of female \"daimones\" who are guardians of humanity, such as the Hours (\"Horae\") and the Graces (\"Charites\"). Soranus integrates this concept, he says, with the \"Tutelae\", ancient Italic protective spirits. The crime of Soranus was thus to reveal in this work the name of the \"Tutela\" charged with protecting Rome.\n\nWorks of later Roman grammarians suggest that Soranus took an interest in etymology and other linguistic matters.\n"}
{"id": "28396181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28396181", "title": "Rasam Pagri", "text": "Rasam Pagri\n\nRasam Pagri (रसम पगड़ी) is a social ceremony, prevalent in Punjab common to Hindus. The ceremony is conducted upon the death of the eldest male member in a family, in which the eldest surviving male member of the family ties a turban (\"pagri\") on his head in the presence of the extended family or clan. According to the Hindu traditions, the ceremony is usually performed by the father of the wife of the eldest, surviving male member. The ceremony usually takes place on the fourth day from the day of funeral rites (\"Antim Sanskar\", also known as \"Uthala\"), or on the thirteenth day, \"Tehravin\". The turban signifies honor of the family, and the ceremony signifies the transition of responsibility for the protection and welfare of the family from the deceased to the surviving oldest male member. (While this is predominantly the case, in the Hindu religious scriptures, it is actually the male member who \"gives fire\" to the body of the deceased who is entitled to wear the turban. As per tradition, it is the oldest surviving son who performs this final rite.)\n\n\"Rasam\" means \"ceremony\" in different languages of India, including Hindi, the most widely spoken. It is derived from the Arabic word \"rasm\" meaning \"procedure\" or \"method\". \"Rasam Pagri\" literally means \"the ceremony of the turban\".\n\nSome communities have decided to end the custom of Rasam Pagri because it is associated with mrityu-bhoj (feast marking the end of the mourning period).\n\nIn some reform-minded families, the daughters have been given the Pagri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "263728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263728", "title": "Raum", "text": "Raum\n\nIn demonology, Raum is a Great Earl of Hell, ruling thirty legions of demons. He is depicted as a crow which adopts human form at the request of the conjurer.\n\nRaum steals treasures out of kings' houses, carrying them where he wishes, and destroys cities and dignities of men (he is said to have great dispraise for dignities). Raum can also tell things past, present and future, reconcile friends and foes, and invoke love.\n\n'Raum' in German means \"space, room, chamber\"; 'räumen' means to empty, evacuate. See lebensraum, literally \"living room\" (that is, room for living - like an aquarium for fish, not a living room).\n\n\"Other spellings\": Raim, Raym, Räum.\n\n"}
{"id": "35846325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35846325", "title": "Robert Boyd (anthropologist)", "text": "Robert Boyd (anthropologist)\n\nRobert Turner Boyd (born February 11, 1948) is an American anthropologist. He is Professor of the School of Human Evolution and Social Change (SHESC) at Arizona State University (ASU). His research interests include evolutionary psychology and in particular the evolutionary roots of culture. Together with his primatologist wife, Joan B. Silk (who is also a Professor in SHESC at ASU), he wrote the textbook \"How Humans Evolved\".\n\nBoyd was born in San Francisco. He studied physics at the University of California, San Diego (B.A., 1970). In 1975, he completed a Ph.D. in ecology at the University of California, Davis. From 1980 to 1984, he was Assistant Professor of the Department of Forestry and Environmental Science at Duke University. Afterwards, he taught two years in the Department of Anthropology at Emory University. From 1988 to 2012, Boyd was on the faculty of the University of California, Los Angeles Department of Anthropology. He is currently a Professor at the School of Human Evolution and Social Change at Arizona State University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35605024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35605024", "title": "Ronda Chervin", "text": "Ronda Chervin\n\nDr. Ronda Chervin (born 1937, New York City) is a Catholic author, international speaker and Professor of Philosophy. She is the author of over 60 books concerning the matters of Catholic thought, practice and spirituality, including \"Taming the Lion Within: 5 Steps From Anger to Peace\", \"Last Call: Fourteen Men Who Dared Answer\", and her autobiography, \"En Route to Eternity\". A widow, mother and grandmother, she is originally from New York.\n\nComing from a Jewish — though atheistic — background, Chervin converted to the Catholic faith when she was a young adult. She graduated from Fordham University with a Ph.D. in Philosophy and earned an MA in Religious Studies from Notre Dame Apostolic Institute. While at Fordham, Chervin studied under Dietrich von Hildebrand. Since then, as a Professor of Philosophy, she has taught at numerous colleges, including Loyola Marymount University, the Seminary of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, the Franciscan University of Steubenville, and Holy Apostles College and Seminary in Cromwell, CT. She frequently presents on Catholic TV and Radio.\n\n"}
{"id": "7859114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7859114", "title": "Sikhism in India", "text": "Sikhism in India\n\nSikhism is the fourth largest religion in India and has existed for 548 years, beginning with the birth of its founder Guru Nanak. The Sikhs are predominantly located in Punjab, but also in many other parts of India. It is also the fifth largest religion in the world, with more than 27 million followers in the world as of the year 2010.\n\nThough Sikhs are a small minority in India, the community occupies a significant place in the country. The former Chief Justice of India, Jagdish Singh Khehar, and the former Prime Minister of India, Dr. Manmohan Singh are Sikh, as is former President of India Gyani Zail Singh. Almost every council of ministers in India has included Sikh representatives. Sikhs are also conspicuous in the Indian army, primarily because of their history as defender of righteousnss, they formed the sword arm of the British empire. The Late Indian officer with a 5 star rank, Arjan Singh, is a Sikh. Sikhs have also led the Indian army through JJ Singh and the Indian Air Force was led by Air Chief Marshal Dilbagh Singh. Sikhs have been prominent in Indian sports, with the only Indian individual gold medalist in Olympics, Abhinav Bindra, being a Sikh. Similarly they occupy important official positions, like Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission, Montek Singh Ahluwalia; governor Surjit Singh Barnala. Sikhs are also known for entrepreneurial business in India. Milkha Singh, also known as The Flying Sikh, is a former Indian track and field sprinter who was introduced to the sport while serving in the Indian Army. One reason for visibility of Sikhs in the Indian spectrum is the disproportionate role played by the Sikh community during the Indian freedom struggle, with Bhagat Singh remaining a youth icon to Indian youth.\nA Sikh place of worship is called Gurdwara. The Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar in Punjab is a prominent Sikh Gurdwara. The Golden Temple represents the\nhighest spiritual seat of Sikh Authority.\n\nSikhism emphasises community services and helping the needy. One of the distinct features of Sikhism is the common kitchen called Langar. In every Gurdwara there is a Langar . Every Sikh is supposed to contribute in preparing a communal meal in the free kitchen. The meals are served to all and are eaten sitting on the floor. Sikhism does not believe in holding fasts, for the body is God's present to the human being; and therefore humans must foster, maintain and preserve it in good, sound condition, unless fasting is done to foster the human body like healthy diets.\nIt is available for all people following any religion.\n\nGuru Nanak was the founder of Sikhism and the first Sikh Guru. The last Guru, Guru Gobind Singh passed the Guruship of the Sikhs to the Eternal Guru of the Sikhs, the Guru Granth Sahib (the sacred text of Sikhism). It also includes the writings of the Sikh Gurus and the writings of Hindu and Muslims saints because all of these Bhagats and Bhatts shared the view of one universal creator god, they have experienced unison with almighty. Every human being is equal in front of Waheguru.\n\nGuru Tegh Bahadur Ji on the request of Kashmiri Pandits saved the people of India. Aurungzeb's religious policy was against Hindus, they had to pay more taxes than Muslims. Sir Mohd. Latif writes \"He discouraged the teaching of the Hindus, burnt to the ground the great Pagoda near Delhi, and destroyed the temple of Bishnath at Benares, and the great temple of Dera Kesu rai at Mathura, said to have been built by Raja Narsingh deo, at the cost of 33 lakh rupees. The gilded domes of this temple were so high that they could be seen from Agra 54 km distant. On the site of temple he built a mosque at a great cost. About year 1690, the emperor issued an edict prohibiting Hindus from being carried in palanquins or riding on Arabian horses.\n\nKhalsa Panth (Punjabi: ਖਾਲਸਾ ਪੰਥ ) meaning: the worldwide community of Khalsa or Sikhs generally (baptised Sikhs are called \"Khalsa\"). It is a name given to the religious structure and the community that manages the affairs of the global Khalsa community.\n\"Khalsa\" refers to the entire group of people who have taken an active decision to follow the way of life laid down by Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh Guru; it is the way of the life managed by the Khalsa community, who are self-managed through their democratic and collective wishes.\nSince Vaisakhi 1699 when the Khalsa was first forged, this community has existed as a distinct group; completely involved in their own local societies but also aware of its social and spiritual responsibility as stipulated by the tenth master. Unlike, other societies, this group did not lay claim to territory or land and property, even when they had rightfully defeated their aggressive opponents.\nThe Panth's aim are the same as that of Sikhi in general and one is just the distillation of the other. The Panth has always existed as a community within other social groups. So, you have had panthic members living as Khalsa in locations away from Punjab where the Khalsa was originally created. Today, you will find the Khalsa located in almost all the major countries of the world; living in harmony with their local societies but always aware of the underlying requirements of their spiritual masters.\n\nKesh: (Kesh is uncut hair) A Sikh is to maintain and adorn this natural God-given gift. To work with nature and not against it. The Kesh is covered with a turban, Keski or Chunni to keep it clean and manageable. \n\nKanga (wooden comb) for the maintenance and ongoing upkeep of Kesh. A reminder to regularly maintain the body and mind in a clean and healthy state.\n\nKara (steel bracelet or slave bangle): Symbolises an unbreakable bond with God. It is a constant reminder that the Sikh is a servant and student of the Lord. He or she must only do His work in accordance with the Holy Scripture; to abstain for wrongdoing at all times.\n\nKachhera (cotton underwear) Standard, Naturally Comfortable, dignified attire reflective of modesty and control of Kaam (Lust). A sign of a soldier; ever ready; dignified and highly mobile.\n\nKirpan (a small sword) A sign that a Sikh is a soldier in \"Akal Purakh's (God's) Army\" (Akal Purakh de fauj); to maintain and protect the weak and needy and for self-defence. Never to be used in anger or to attack.\n\nAs per the latest figures of 2011 census, India has Sikh Population of 2.08 crores (20.8 million), which is only 1.72% of the country's total population. Out of the total Sikhs in India, 77% are concentrated in state of Punjab. Sikhism is the dominant religion in Punjab, where it is followed by 58% of the population, the only Indian state where Sikhism is the majority faith. \n\nOther states where Sikh population has some impact are U.T. of Chandigarh (13.11%), New Delhi (5.4%), Haryana (4.91%), Uttarakhand (2.34%), Rajasthan (1.27%), Jammu & Kashmir (1.87%) and Himachal Pradesh (1.16%).\n\n\n\nhttps://www.sikhfoundation.org (english) -\nhttps://www.deutsches-informationszentrum-sikhreligion.de (german & english) \n"}
{"id": "8983028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8983028", "title": "Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring", "text": "Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring\n\nTagzig Olmo Lung Ring is a non-dual spiritual realm (plane or dimension) of the Bon tradition which resides beyond dualism. It is understood to be a timeless perfected realm where peace and joy are the very fabric of being. \n\nThe Beyul realm of \"Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring\" is fabled to be located to the west of Mount Kailash and shaped like an eight-petaled lotus and divided into four regions: inner, middle, outer and boundary area. The sky of this realm is likened to an eight-spoked wheel (refer Dharmachakra) and the land itself is fragrant and coloured by beautiful flora and landscaping, chorten and snow-capped mountains. \n\nCentral to \"Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring\" is Yungdrung Gutsek, a pyramidal-shaped mountain serving as axis mundi with nine Yungdrungs (refer sauwastika) ascending like a staircase evocative of the Nine Ways (or stages) of Bon. The four faces of the pyramidal mountain, face the four cardinal directions. At the corner-joints of \"Yungdrung Gutsek\" (cross-quarter directions) four rivers flow from simulacra of archetypal thoughtforms:\n\nMount Kailash of south-western Tibet has been equated with \"Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring\" by some scholars. The Bonpo contend with this as \"Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring\" is not a physical locality that can be visited by humans in the state of dualism. In order to access \"Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring\", one must diligently practice spiritual disciplines, purify the bodymind and mindstream of all obscurations and realise the non-dual state. Bonpo pray with the heartmind to take birth in \"Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring\" as this may only occur post-enlightenment. Mount Kailash is accessible by those in a dualistic and non-realised state and is therefore proof to the Bonpo that Mount Kailash and \"Tagzig Olmo Lung Ring\" are qualitatively and essentially, different realms. Historical Bon texts state explicitly that the sacred mountain of Mount Kailash is central to the kingdom of Zhangzhung.\n\n"}
{"id": "1554268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1554268", "title": "Thomas F. Torrance", "text": "Thomas F. Torrance\n\nThomas Forsyth Torrance, (30 August 1913 – 2 December 2007), commonly referred to as T. F. Torrance, was a Scottish Protestant theologian. Torrance served for 27 years as professor of Christian dogmatics at New College, in the University of Edinburgh. He is best known for his pioneering work in the study of science and theology, but he is equally respected for his work in systematic theology. While he wrote many books and articles advancing his own study of theology, he also edited the translation of several hundred theological writings into English from other languages, including the English translation of the thirteen-volume, six-million-word \"Church Dogmatics\" of Swiss theologian Karl Barth, as well as John Calvin's New Testament \"Commentaries\". He was a member of the famed Torrance family of theologians.\n\nTorrance has been acknowledged as one of the most significant English-speaking theologians of the twentieth century, and, in 1978, he received the prestigious Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion. Torrance remained a dedicated churchman throughout his life, serving as an ordained minister in the Church of Scotland. He was instrumental in the development of the historic agreement between the Reformed and Eastern Orthodox Churches on the doctrine of the Trinity when a joint statement of agreement on that doctrine was issued between the World Alliance of Reformed Churches and the Orthodox Church on 13 March 1991. He retired from the University of Edinburgh in 1979, but continued to lecture and to publish extensively. Several influential books on the Trinity were published after his retirement: \"The Trinitarian Faith: The Evangelical Theology of the Ancient Catholic Church\" (1988); \"Trinitarian Perspectives: Toward Doctrinal Agreement\" (1994); and \"The Christian Doctrine of God, One Being Three Persons\" (1996).\n\nTorrance was the son of the Revd Thomas Torrance (1871–1959) and Annie Elizabeth Torrance (1883–1980), both Scottish missionaries of China Inland Mission in Chengdu, Sichuan, West China; named after his great-grandfather, Thomas Forsyth Torrance; and spent the first thirteen years of his life there. He was educated at the universities of Edinburgh, Oxford and Basel. He began studying in Edinburgh in 1931 focusing on classics and philosophy. At that time his own realist views of philosophy, theology and morality started to take shape, and as he moved to the study of theology at the Faculty of Divinity (New College) in 1934 this led him to question the theological methodology of Schleiermacher for its lack of any realist scientific objectivity. For Torrance, such objectivity meant that theology needed to allow all its concepts to be shaped by the unique nature of the object of reflection. n this regard, theology did not differ from science; what set science and theology apart of course was the different nature of the objects of their reflection. In the case of science that was the world created by God; in the case of theology it was God the creator, reconciler and redeemer who was no distant God but the God who became incarnate in his Son within time and space in order to reconcile the world to himself. This insight led Torrance to oppose every form of dualism because such thinking always tended to keep God from interacting with us in history in one way or another. He also opposed all forms of \"subjectivism\" because he held that it was impossible for people to know God objectively by reflecting upon themselves. Torrance was strongly influenced by Hugh Ross Mackintosh (1870-1936) and by Daniel Lamont (1869-1950), the former stressing the centrality of Christ and the connection between theology and mission, and the latter stressing the relationship between Christianity and scientific culture.\n\nTorrance was awarded the Blackie Fellowship in 1936 for study in the Middle East. This was not without its precarious moments as when he was sentenced to death in Basra (Iraq), accused of being a spy. Fortunately, he was able to convince the authorities that he was a theological student and was allowed to proceed to Baghdad and then to Syria. He eventually returned to Scotland, specialized in systematic theology and graduated \"summa cum laude\". After that he studied with Karl Barth in Basel. In 1946 he became engaged to Margaret Edith Spear and completed his doctorate \"magna cum laude\". From 1938 to 1939 Torrance taught at Auburn Theological Seminary in upstate New York and was eventually offered a position in religion at Princeton University which he did not accept because he decided to return home to Scotland with war in Europe on the horizon. From 1939 to 1940 Torrance studied at Oriel College, Oxford. He was ordained as minister on 20 March 1940. During World War II Torrance provided pastoral and practical support to Scottish soldiers in North Africa and northern Italy and, by the grace of God, escaped with his life after coming under fire on more than one occasion. After the war, Torrance returned to his parish in Alyth and later became minister at Beechgrove Church in Aberdeen, following in the footsteps of his former beloved professor, Hugh Ross Mackintosh. He married Margaret Edith Spear on 2 October 1946 in Combe Down Parish Church, near Bath, England. The Torrance family soon included: Thomas Spear Torrance who was born on 3 July 1947 and is now an economist and philosopher of science at Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh; Iain Richard Torrance who was born on 13 January 1949 and the former President of Princeton Theological Seminary in New Jersey and Professor of Patristics; and Alison Meta Elizabeth Torrance who was born on 15 April 1951 and is now a medical doctor in general practice in Edinburgh.\n\nTorrance received an Honorary Doctorate from Heriot-Watt University in 1983 \n\nAs an ordained minister in the Church of Scotland he served as Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland from 1976-1977, as did his son Iain from 2003 to 2004. As a Reformed churchman and theologian Torrance worked tirelessly toward ecumenical harmony with Anglicans, Lutherans, Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholics throughout his career. In recognition of his ecumenical work with the Eastern Orthodox church, he was consecrated a Protopresbyter in the Patriarchate of Alexandria by the Archbishop of Axum in 1973. Torrance himself served on the Reformed–Roman Catholic Study Commission on the Eucharist which met at Woudschoten, in the Netherlands in 1974, during which time he formed a personal relationship with the Roman Catholic cardinal and renowned ecumenist, Yves Congar. He represented the Church of Scotland in conversations with the Church of England between 1949 – 1951 and fought tirelessly for the visible union of the Church, and not merely a spiritual union; he was the Convener of the Church of Scotland Commission on Baptism from 1954 to 1962 (with John Heron, the father of Alasdair Heron, acting as secretary to the Commission); and was present at the World Council of Churches meeting in Evanston, Illinois, in 1954.\nTorrance led a colloquy in Switzerland in March 1975 which discussed Karl Rahner's work on the Trinity because he believed that Rahner's work offered an opportunity for genuine ecumenical convergence between East and West, Catholic and Evangelical Christians. Torrance made significant contributions to Reformed and Roman Catholic discussions of Justification by Faith and by Grace as well. It should also be noted that there is much in Torrance's writing that could form the basis for significant fraternal dialogue between Christians and Jews. Torrance studied with the distinguished Swiss Reformed theologian Karl Barth in Basel, completing his dissertation on \"The Doctrine of Grace in the Apostolic Fathers\" in 1946, after his service as a chaplain during World War II. In 1948, he was the founding Editor of the important and highly regarded peer reviewed journal, the Scottish Journal of Theology, which his son Iain continues to edit along with Bryan Spinks of Yale University.\n\nOne of the reasons that Torrance's theology is now becoming the focus for many doctoral students is that his was a profoundly Christ-centered theology that was in no way Christomonist (one that reduced all theology to Christology), but instead integrated all Christian doctrine in such a way as to offer sensible and compelling explanations of the Christian faith. This integration of doctrine began for Torrance with the Nicene homoousion (the fact that the eternal Son was and is one in being with the Father and Spirit in eternity and with us by virtue of the incarnation), and included the doctrines of the Trinity, Creation, Incarnation, Atonement, Eschatology, Pneumatology, the Church and the Sacraments as well as a theology of ordained Ministry. Interpreting each of these doctrines from within the perspective of an ecumenically open doctrine of the Trinity, with which most Roman Catholic and Orthodox theologians would substantially agree, Torrance forged an understanding of Justification by Grace that demonstrated exactly how and why Christ, in his uniqueness as God become man acting from within the human situation marked by sin and evil, overcame sin, suffering, evil and death once and for all both from the divine and the human side. This enabled Torrance to offer a theology that was at once full of depth and meaning and yet joyful and hopeful because he knew that Jesus was no mere moral example of the good life, but God himself who suffered the God-forsakenness associated with human enmity against God on the cross out of unconditional love for humanity, and did so effectively precisely because he was the Word of God incarnate. He once said that if Jesus was just a man dying on a cross, then Christianity would be immoral, offering a picture of a vindictive God along with the image of a pagan human attempt to appease God through human sacrifice—a form of self-justification. But put God on the cross and the whole picture changes because then the depth of God's costly love could be seen to include the fact that God was not aloof from human suffering but willing himself to experience this suffering in his own Son in order to overcome all that threatens true human existence in fellowship with God. All of this was accomplished and demonstrated in Christ's resurrection and continues to be lived as part of the new creation in the Church, as the community is united through faith and hope with the ascended and advent Lord by the Holy Spirit, through partaking of the Sacraments and through preaching and teaching the Gospel.\n\nAs indicated by the fact that he was awarded the Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion in 1978, Torrance made singular contributions to the dialogue between science and theology. His contributions in this area led Alister McGrath to observe that many of those theologians he studied did not seem bothered by the fact that they had no first-hand knowledge of the method and norms of natural science, but wrote about science nonetheless! But it was different with Torrance. \"Torrance’s writings were, quite simply, of landmark significance.\" P. Mark Achtemeier describes Torrance's work in this area as \"magisterial and highly original.\" Christopher Kaiser noted that if Einstein was the person of the century from the perspective of the secular media, then Torrance would qualify as the theologian of the century from the perspective of people who are science minded. In his groundbreaking book \"Theological Science\", Torrance argued that theological and natural science held in common the same need to understand reality through our thoughts by pointing beyond ourselves and not letting our subjective experiences and knowledge distort the objective reality we are attempting to conceptualize. Theology and science should be seen as \"allies in a common front where each faces the same insidious enemy, namely, man himself assuming the role of Creator . . .\" (Torrance, \"Theological Science\", xiii). As long as the dialogue is conceived to be between science and religion, Torrance contended, \"we shall not escape from romantic naturalism.\" Instead, he insisted that we must focus on the dialogue between science and theology and thus between the \"philosophy of natural science\" and the \"philosophy of theological science\" because these two methods have in common the \"struggle for scientific method on their proper ground and their own distinctive fields\" (Torrance, \"Theological Science\", xiii). Torrance did a great deal to foster this discussion in his books \"Space, Time and Incarnation\" and \"Space, Time and Resurrection\" where he showed the connections between the two sciences by allowing theology to understand what it means to think of God acting in new and distinctive ways within created time and space, while respecting the distinctive nature of creation itself in its fallen and reconciled condition. Torrance famously argued for a non-dualist and non-monist view of theology and science in the school of the renowned physicist and theologian John Philoponos (490-570) whose thinking stood in stark contrast to Aristotelian and Neoplatonic thinking which Torrance believed was harmful both to science and to theology. Such thinking led to ideas of God as an unmoved mover, and thus one who was not a living God capable of acting within creation without being conditioned by creation or limited by it. Torrance approved of Einstein, Maxwell and Polanyi in their attempts to hold together thought and reality, experience and ideas, instead of tearing them apart and believed that theologians could learn from this. Such unitary thinking in science, Torrance believed, could help theologians overcome Kantian and Cartesian dualism. His theology demonstrates exactly how he thought this should be done, especially as this relates to interpreting Scripture. When form and being are separated, as they are when our ideas are separated from objective reality, then it becomes impossible to know Jesus as he is in himself; we only know Jesus as he appeared to be to his followers and this leaves the door open to the idea that Jesus could be created and re-created according to people's faith. This was especially problematic with respect to the risen Lord. When the chord is cut between idea and reality, then it is thought that the resurrection is only a mythological way of reflecting on the death of Jesus instead of as a description of a unique occurrence in his life history that enabled a true understanding of his person and work as recorded in the scriptures.\n\nTorrance's scientific theology could be especially helpful today in the debate over whether election constitutes God's triunity or whether the triune God eternally elects us without exhausting his being in his actions for us as Creator, Reconciler and Redeemer. Torrance's thinking, following Barth, clearly comes down against any idea that God's eternal being is constituted by his relations with us in history. And that is precisely one of the factors that makes his thinking so compelling to so many today. More than any theologian of the twentieth century, Torrance had a lively sense of Christ's continued high-priestly mediation of humanity to the Father through the Holy Spirit. It is just this emphasis that enabled Torrance to take seriously the fact that there could be no created substitute for the man Jesus in his continued existence as the risen, ascended and advent Lord who, in his true humanity and true divinity, continues even now and until his second coming, to unite people humanly to himself as his body on earth (the Church) through faith and by grace. His is a biblically informed and patristically grounded theology that will serve the ecumenical church for many years to come just as the theology of Karl Barth, his mentor, continues to do.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4665174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4665174", "title": "Volney Mathison", "text": "Volney Mathison\n\nVolney G. Mathison, also known by the pseudonym Dex Volney (August 13, 1897 – January 3, 1965), was an American chiropractor, writer, and inventor of the first E-meter used by the Church of Scientology.\n\nIn 1935, Mathison was married to Jean Darrell, a music librarian for NBC. She died in November 1964.\n\nIn 1921, Mathison wrote the fictional short story \"A Phony Phone\", which was published in \"Radio News\" edited by Hugo Gernsback. In 1924, he wrote the fictional book \"The Radiobuster: Being Some of the Adventures of Samuel Jones, Deep Sea Wireless Operator\". The book is listed in \"American Fiction, 1901-1925: A Bibliography\". Mathison's story \"The Death Bottle\" was published in \"Weird Tales\" in March 1925. He also wrote stories which were published under the pseudonym of \"Dex Volney\". His pieces as \"Dex Volney\" were of the Western genre, and set in Alaska. According to \"Science-Fiction: The Gernsback Years\", Mathison was \"a prolific author\" under this pseudonym. As Dex Volney, he wrote popular stories published by Street & Smith.\n\nIn the June 1929 issue of \"Amazing Stories\", Mathison's story \"The Mongolian's Ray\" appeared and was promoted on the cover. Forrest J. Ackerman and Brad Linaweaver write in the book \"Worlds of Tomorrow\", \"In this story, he created the fictional device that shortly after the introduction of Dianetics, morphed into reality as the E-meter employed today to supposedly reveal the personalities of individuals interested in becoming 'clears' in the Dianetic regimen.\" Mathison's story \"Thor Olsen's Ace\" was selected for inclusion in \"The World's Best Short Stories of 1930\".\n\nIn 1935, Mathison was employed building short wave radios. He was also a chiropractor and psychoanalyst. According to some critics of Scientology, Mathison designed and built the first E-meter in the 1940s, which he called a \"Mathison Electropsychometer\", or E-meter, to read electrodermal activity. However, Mathison wrote in his own book, \"Electropsychometry\", that he first began considering the subject of E-meters when he attended a series of lectures in 1950 and other writers identify the lecturer as L. Ron Hubbard.\n\nThe E-meter \"has a needle that swings back and forth across a scale when a patient holds on to two electrical contacts\". He used the device to investigate the psychoanalytic problems of his patients. He then employed self-hypnosis tapes, and instructed his patients to use them to address those issues. The device became popular and was used among other chiropractors. John Freeman writes in \"Suppressed and Incredible Inventions\", \"Recalling my visits at the height of his career, I remember that, while his results were outstanding, he was typically fought by the Medical Profession.\" The Mathison meter was based on the Wheatstone bridge invented in 1833. Earlier electrodermal activity meters were used by Ivane Tarkhnishvili in 1889 and popularized by Carl Gustav Jung in a series of papers published in 1904.\nMathison was a follower of Dianetics founded by L. Ron Hubbard. Hubbard incorporated Mathison's device into Scientology practices. Hubbard often called him simply \"Mathison\" in his writings. According to author Paulette Cooper, Scientologists erroneously referred to him as \"Olin Mathison\". Simon Singh and Edzard Ernst write in \"Trick or Treatment\" that \"The E-meter was also widely used by the Church of Scientology, so much so that many Scientologists believe that it was invented by their founder L. Ron Hubbard.\"\n\nAccording to the 1986 memoirs of Hubbard's son, Ronald DeWolf, after establishing usage of the E-meter in Dianetics, Hubbard asked Mathison to give the patent rights to him, but Mathison refused to give up the patent rights, wishing that it remain the \"Mathison E-meter\". Mathison was granted for his vacuum tube E-meter in 1954. But DeWolf was inconsistent on this history. In an earlier sworn affidavit to the Federal District Court in about 1980, DeWolf stated that Mathison gave Hubbard his rights to the E-meter in 1952.\n\nAnother writer tells yet a third version this history. According to Gordon Melton, the first E-meter was \"developed by Volney Mathison, following Hubbard's designs.\"\n\nUse of the E-meter in Dianetics practice was subsequently stopped by Hubbard in 1954. In 1966, Hubbard was awarded a United States patent for a solid-state E-meter, described as a \"Device for Measuring and Indicating Changes in Resistance of a Living Body\".\n\nAccording to some writers, Mathison was bitter and disillusioned about Scientology.\n\nMany of Mathison's professional activities and publications — chiropractic, psychoanalysis, past life regression, and hypnotherapy — have been classed as pseudosciences by various critics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36317865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36317865", "title": "William B. Allen", "text": "William B. Allen\n\nWilliam Barclay Allen (born 1944) is an African-American political scientist. He has been Professor of Political Philosophy and dean of James Madison College at Michigan State University in East Lansing, Michigan. He was a member of the National Council on the Humanities 1984–87 and chairman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights from 1988 to 1989.\n\nAllen's fields are political philosophy, American government, and jurisprudence. He is considered an authority in matters of a liberal arts education.\n\nAllen was born in Fernandina Beach, Florida, in 1944, as the oldest of twelve children of a Baptist preacher. During high school, he studied science at Virginia Union University, but his interests shifted to politics and philosophy, and he moved to Pepperdine College, where he graduated in 1967 (B.A., M. A. 1968) and received a Ph.D. In 1972 from Claremont Graduate University. In 1970–71, he was Fulbright Advanced Teaching Fellow at University of Rouen in France. He was appointed Assistant Professor at the School of Government and Public Administration at American University in 1971 and the next year he became Assistant Professor of Government at Harvey Mudd College in 1972, with tenure in 1976. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 1976 and served as full Professor from 1983–94.\n\nAllen was a member of the National Council on the Humanities 1984–87. He resigned to take seat on the United States Commission on Civil Rights, on which he served until 1992. He was chairman of the commission from August 8, 1988 to October 23, 1989.\n\nAllen was Dean and Professor at James Madison College, Michigan State University, 1993–98. Under his leadership, the College gained broad national recognition as a center of liberal education, faculty and student life was vivified, and faculty productivity saw a dramatic increase. The following year, he was Executive Director of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia. During his tenure, Council staff and operations were thoroughly reorganized, focusing on its two statutory obligations – public policy recommendations, and administration of educational programs. Under his guidance the agency developed major strategic planning, funding formula, program assessment, and general education recommendations. He successfully put questions like making colleges more accountable for the state money they get on the agenda in Virginia.\n\nIn 2002–05, Allen was Director of a Program in Public Policy and Administration at Michigan State University, and in 2004–06 Chairman of the Working Group for the Improvement of Undergraduate Education at Michigan State University. In 2006–07, he was Ann & Herbert W. Vaughan Visiting Fellow in the James Madison Program at Princeton University, and in 2008–09, he was Visiting Senior Scholar in the Matthew J. Ryan Center for the Study of Free Institutions and the Public Good at Villanova University. He is currently the 2018-9 Visiting Scholar in Conservative Thought and Policy at the University of Colorado Boulder's Center for Western Civilization, Thought & Policy.\n\nHe also has served on the boards of the Hoover Institution (1995–) and St. John's College (1989–). Since 2002, he is Academic Advisor and Faculty Member at the Institute for Responsible Citizenship in Washington, D. C.\n\nAllen is Chairman and co-founder of Toward A Fair Michigan, whose mission was to further understanding of the equal opportunity issues involved in guaranteeing civil rights for all citizens, and to provide a civic forum for a fair and open exchange of views on the question of affirmative action.\n\nAllen is the father of classicist and political scientist Danielle Allen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51841033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51841033", "title": "Zoroastrian Trust Funds of Europe", "text": "Zoroastrian Trust Funds of Europe\n\nThe Zoroastrian Trust Funds of Europe (ZTFE) is a religious, cultural and social organisation for Zoroastrians residing in Europe, namely the United Kingdom. It was founded on 31 October 1861 by Muncherjee Hormusji Cama and Dadabhai Naoroji. \n\nAt the time of its founding, it was reported that there were approximately fifty Zoroastrians present in England who were mainly students. However, Zoroastrians have been present in the United Kingdom long before the foundation of the ZTFE; the first known Parsi arrival being Nowroji Rustom Maneck Sett (Nowroji Rustomji) in 1721 or 1724. Currently there are around 5,000 members of the ZTFE.\n\nThe secretariat and principal venue attached to the organisation is \"The Zoroastrian Centre\" located in the Rayners Lane area of Harrow. The centre is a Grade II* listed Art Deco former ACE cinema. Additionally the ZTFE also manage the \"Parsee burial ground\" established in 1862, at Brookwood Cemetery which is the only operating Zoroastrian burial ground in Europe. \n\nNotable visitors to The Zoroastrian Centre in recent years include Prince Phillip, Duke of Edinburgh, Dr Rowan Williams, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex and Sophie, Countess of Wessex.\n\nThe first formal move to organise the growing Parsi community in the United Kingdom was from Muncherjee Cama who was joined by Dadabhai Naoroji in a circular letter to the fifty Parsis they knew to be in London in 1861.\n\nInitially founded as 'Europena Zarthost Dharmanu Khatu' as (\"The Religious Funds of the Zoroastrians in Europe\" in Gujarati), in Kensington, London; the first meeting was attended by fifteen Parsis at Cama's residence at 24 Devonshire Terrace.\n\nThe \"Religious Funds of the Zoroastrians of Europe\" existed to purchase land for the burial of the dead, help stranded or destitute Zoroastrians; to purchase and produce books on Zoroastrianism; to fund research on Zoroastrianism; to establish a 'House of Prayer' and general fund for miscellaneous expenses.\n\nUnder its regulations four of the seven managing trustees were to be students, with other members representing the association at the University of Oxford, University of Cambridge and University of Edinburgh.\n\nWhilst the association initially consisted of Parsis only they were active in campaigning for the rights of the persecuted Zoroastrians in Iran. Dadabhai Naoroji and Mancherjee Bhownagree, both presidents of the ZTFE and MPs addressed the House of Commons of the United Kingdom on this issue. On the six occasions, Shah Naser al-Din Shah Qajar visited London; Parsi delegations from the ZTFE were present to advocate for their Iranian co-religionists suffering intense persecution under the Qajar dynasty.\n\nThe Federation of Zoroastrian Associations of North America\n"}
