{"id": "9711103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711103", "title": "12th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "12th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 12th World Science Fiction Convention, also known as SFCon, was held September 3–6, 1954, at the Sir Francis Drake Hotel in San Francisco, California, United States.\n\nThe chairmen were Lester Cole and Gary Nelson. The guest of honor was John W. Campbell, Jr., the editor of \"Astounding\" magazine. Total attendance was approximately 700.\n\nThe 11th Worldcon was the first one in which Hugo Awards were awarded. The 12th convention did not continue the tradition, but since the 13th convention, Hugo Awards have been a permanent fixture of Worldcons.\n\n"}
{"id": "7544162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7544162", "title": "1966 Central American and Caribbean Games", "text": "1966 Central American and Caribbean Games\n\nThe 10th (X) Central American and Caribbean Games were held in San Juan, Puerto Rico, from July 11 to July 25, 1966. These games were one of the largest ever with a total number of 1,689 athletes from eighteen participating nations.\n\nAmong those that composed the organizing committee were; Emilio Huyke, President, Joaco Martinez Rousset, General Secretary, Felicio Torregrosa Teknical Directo, German Rieckhoff Sampayo, Legal Council, Jose Luis Purcell, Emilio Vergne, Rafael Aparicio, Luis Crespo, Juan Maldonado, Rafell Pont Flores, Norman H. Davila and others.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "3402702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3402702", "title": "2002 Japan animal cruelty case", "text": "2002 Japan animal cruelty case\n\nThe was an animal cruelty case involving the torture and death of a cat in Japan. The case was a significant development as Japanese animal abuse laws had previously been lax and seldom enforced.\n\nOn May 6 and May 7, 2002, a 26-year-old unemployed Kure, Hiroshima Prefecture man named captured a kitten in his Fukuoka neighborhood and took it into his home. Matsubara tortured the cat for four hours by cutting off its ear and tail before strangling the cat with a piece of string. Matsubara hung the cat into a river. Matsubara took photographs of the torture and posted them onto 2channel. A placard seen in the final photograph reads in Japanese \"Offer to the brothers of Kuromutsu in the world!! Oscar Dill\". \"Kuromutsu\" generally refers to people that kill dogs and cats; it is used on 2ch to refer to the \"I hate pets\" subforum.\n\nA poster discovered the pictures and contacted the appropriate authorities, who then proceeded to arrest Matsubara. Matsubara was sentenced on October 21, 2002 to six months' imprisonment, but the judge suspended the jail term because his privacy was violated due to the incident.\n\nThe cat who died was named \"Kogenta\" (こげんた) by a Buddhist priest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55117395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55117395", "title": "2019 Women's European Volleyball Championship", "text": "2019 Women's European Volleyball Championship\n\nThe 2019 Women's European Volleyball Championship will be the 31st edition of the Women's European Volleyball Championship, organised by Europe's governing volleyball body, the CEV. For the first time the Women's EuroVolley will be held in four different countries; Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Turkey. The number of national teams participating in the event will also be expanded from 16 to 24.\n\nTo be determined.\n\nTo be announced.\n\nMatch won 3–0 or 3–1: 3 match points for the winner, 0 match points for the loser<br>\nMatch won 3–2: 2 match points for the winner, 1 match point for the loser\n\n"}
{"id": "55745471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55745471", "title": "BAZAAR Stars’ Charity Night", "text": "BAZAAR Stars’ Charity Night\n\nBAZAAR Stars’ Charity Night () is an annual fundraising gala hosted by Harper’s Bazaar China in China for Chinese celebrities who support charities. The event was founded at 2003 due to the outbreak of SARS upon Na Ying's suggestion and the fundraising event was continued every year ever since. Since 2014, the charity night has been a collaboration between Harper's Bazaar China and Zhejiang Television where the latter will broadcast the charity night on national television. In recent years, the event is divided into the auction segment and the donation segment with intervals of performances. \n\nDuring the outbreak of SARS, the crew of Harper's Bazaar China felt a strong social responsibility to contribute for the betterment of the society. Singer Na Ying suggested auctioning clothes and items owned by fellow celebrities and donate the money to the poor. First few years of operation for this fund raising event was not a media highlight as not many sponsors and brands gave their support. The induction of more celebrities made the fundraising event a national event and a commercial success. The event is attended by the Chinese entertainment industry with guest ranging from singers, actors, actresses to entertainment moguls.\n"}
{"id": "26499036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26499036", "title": "Bhagoria Festival", "text": "Bhagoria Festival\n\nBhagoria Fest is a festival celebrated by the tribal people of the Indian state Madhya Pradesh (originally known as 'Malwa'). Also known as Bhagoria Haat Festival, during this festival, young boys and girls are allowed to elope after choosing their partners. The Bhagoria Haat Festival belongs to the local tribes called Bhils and Bhilalas.\n\nBhagoria Haat Festival is organized in Khargone district and Jhabua. The haat is organized in the form of a 'swayamvar' or a marriage market where young girls and boys are allowed to choose their partners. Bhagoria Haat Festival has an agricultural significance attached to it, that is, it coincides with the end of harvesting. So some people also celebrate it to mark the completion of harvesting.\n\nBut the star attraction of Bhagoria Haat Festival of Madhya Pradesh is the running away of young boys and girls with their partner who are later accepted as husband and wife by the society. During the Bhagoria Haat Festival in Madhya Pradesh, the boys put red powder on the face of the girl to whom he wants to get married, if the girl too wishes to marry the same boy, she has to put the same red powder on the boy's face after which both of them run away from that place. But if the girl does not agree in the first chance, the boy can go behind her to persuade her and may win her heart.\n\nBhagoria Haat Festival at Madhya Pradesh is celebrated in the month of March before the Holi festival.\n"}
{"id": "5210934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5210934", "title": "Bitolterol", "text": "Bitolterol\n\nBitolterol mesylate (Tornalate) is a short-acting β adrenergic receptor agonist used for the relief of bronchospasm in conditions such as asthma and COPD. In these disorders there is a narrowing of the airways (bronchi and their ramifications) that carry air to the lungs. Muscle spasm and inflammation within the bronchi get worse this narrowing. Bitolterol relaxes the smooth muscles present continuously around the bronchi and bronchioles facilitating the flow of air through them.\nBitolterol is a prodrug of colterol. It has a rapid onset of action (2–5 minutes) and may last up to 6–8 hours.\nThe drug, alone or in co-administration with theophylline, doesn't show cardiotoxic effect.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved bitolterol in December 1984. The drug was withdrawn from the market by Élan Pharmaceuticals in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "58223700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58223700", "title": "Bonuviers Teater", "text": "Bonuviers Teater\n\nBonuviers Teater ('Bonuvier Theatre') was a historic theatre in Åbo in Finland, active between 1813 and 1827. It was the first theater in Finland alongside the \"Engels Teater\" in Helsinki, and the first theatre in Åbo. It was the predecessor of the Åbo Svenska Theater. \n\nTurku was the capital city of Finland during Finland's epoch as a part of Sweden, and Swedish theatre companies visited Finland during the 18th-century, the first of whom was the Stenborg Troupe in the 1761 and the company of Carl Seuerling in the 1780s. There where however, no proper theatre building. \n\nIt was founded by the actor and theater director Karl Gustav Bonuvier. The permit of the building was given in 1813, and the building was completed in 1817. It was used by travelling theater companies. Initially, Bonuvier's own company used the building between their tours in other parts of the country. In 1820, it was used by the company of Anders Peter Berggren, and in 1824-25 by Johan Gustaf Lemke (1790-1825).\n\nThe theatre was destroyed during the Great Fire of Turku of 1827. \n\n"}
{"id": "3563149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3563149", "title": "Bunny Man", "text": "Bunny Man\n\nThe Bunny Man is an urban legend that originated from two incidents in Fairfax County, Virginia, in 1970, but has been spread throughout the Washington, D.C., area. The legend has many variations; most involve a man wearing a rabbit costume who attacks people with an axe or hatchet.\n\nMost of the stories occur around Colchester Overpass, a Southern Railway overpass spanning Colchester Road near Clifton, Virginia, sometimes referred to as \"Bunny Man Bridge\".\n\nVersions of the legend vary in the Bunny Man's name, motives, weapons, victims, description of the bunny costume or lack thereof, and sometimes even his possible death. In some accounts, victims' bodies are mutilated, and in some variations, the Bunny Man's ghost or aging spectre is said to come out of his place of death each year on Halloween to commemorate his passing.\n\nFairfax County Public Library Historian-Archivist Brian A. Conley extensively researched the Bunny Man legend. He has located two incidents of a man in a rabbit costume threatening people with an axe. The vandalism reports occurred a week apart in 1970 in Burke, Virginia.\nThe first incident was reported the evening of October 19, 1970, by U.S. Air Force Academy Cadet Robert Bennett and his fiancée, who were visiting relatives on Guinea Road in Burke. Around midnight, while returning from a football game, they reportedly parked their car in a field on Guinea Road to \"visit an Uncle who lived across the street from where the car was parked\". As they sat in the front seat with the motor running, they noticed something moving outside the rear window. Moments later, the front passenger window was smashed, and there was a white-clad figure standing near the broken window. Bennett turned the car around while the man screamed at them about trespassing, including: \"You're on private property, and I have your tag number.\" As they drove down the road, the couple discovered a hatchet on the car floor. \nWhen the police requested a description of the man, Bennett insisted he was wearing a white suit with long bunny ears. However, Bennett's fiancée contested their assailant did not have bunny ears on his head, but was wearing a white capirote of some sort. They both remembered seeing his face clearly, but in the darkness, they could not determine his race. The police returned the hatchet to Bennett after examination. Bennett was required to report the incident upon his return to the Air Force Academy.\n\nThe second reported sighting occurred on the evening of October 29, 1970, when construction security guard Paul Phillips approached a man standing on the porch of an unfinished home, in Kings Park West on Guinea Road. Phillips said the man was wearing a gray, black, and white bunny costume, and was about 20 years old, tall, and weighed about . The man began chopping at a porch post with a long-handled axe, saying: \"You are trespassing. If you come any closer, I'll chop off your head.\" \nThe Fairfax County Police opened investigations into both incidents, but both were eventually closed for lack of evidence. In the weeks following the incidents, more than 50 people contacted the police claiming to have seen the \"Bunny Man\". Several newspapers, including \"The Washington Post\", reported that the \"Bunny Man\" had eaten a man's runaway cat. The articles that mentioned this incident were:\n\nIn 1973, Patricia Johnson, a student at the University of Maryland, College Park, submitted a research paper that chronicled precisely 54 variations on the two incidents.\n\nThe legend has circulated for years in several forms. A version naming a suspect and specific location was posted to a website in the late 1990s by a \"Timothy C. Forbes\". This version states that in 1904, an asylum prison in Clifton, Virginia, was shut down due to a petition by the growing population of residents of Fairfax County. During the transfer of inmates to a new facility, one of the fifteen transports crashed; most, including the driver, were killed, but ten inmates escaped. A search party found all but one of them.\n\nDuring this time, locals allegedly began to find hundreds of cleanly skinned, half-eaten carcasses of rabbits hanging from the trees in the surrounding areas. Another search of the area was ordered, and the police located the remains of Marcus Wallster, left in a similar fashion to the rabbit carcasses, hanging in a nearby tree, or under a bridge overpass—also known as the \"Bunny Man Bridge\"—along the railroad tracks at Colchester Road. Officials named the last missing inmate, Douglas J. Grifon, as their suspect, and called him \"the bunny man\".\n\nIn this version, officials finally managed to locate Grifon, but during their attempt to apprehend him at the overpass, he nearly escaped, before being hit by an oncoming train where the original transport crashed. Supposedly, after the train passed, the police heard laughter. It was eventually revealed that Grifon had been institutionalized for killing his family on Easter Sunday.\n\nFor years after the \"Bunny Man's\" death, in the time approaching Halloween, carcasses are said to have been found hanging from the overpass and from trees in the surrounding area. A figure was reportedly seen by pedestrians making their way through the one-lane bridge tunnel.\n\nAccording to Conley, this version is demonstrably false. Among other inconsistencies, Conley notes \"there has never been an asylum for the insane in Fairfax County\", and that \"Lorton Prison didn't come into existence until 1910, and even then it was an arm of the District of Columbia Corrections system, not Virginia's.\" Moreover, court records show neither a Grifon nor a Wallster.\n\nCryptozoologist Loren Coleman, on his blog \"Cryptomundo\" and in his book \"Weird Virginia\", in a section on the Bunny Man, wrote about a direct association between the legend and that of the Goatman of nearby Maryland.\n\nColchester Overpass was built in about 1906 near the site of Sangster's Station, a Civil War era railroad station on what was once the Orange and Alexandria Railroad. Because of its association with the legend, the overpass is a popular destination for paranormal enthusiasts (ghost hunters) and curiosity seekers (legend trippers). Interest increases around Halloween, and starting in 2003, local authorities began controlling access to the area during that time. During Halloween 2011, over 200 people, some from as far away as the Pennsylvania–Maryland state line, were turned away during a 14-hour traffic checkpoint into the area. Visitors from outside the area may be unaware that Colchester Overpass is an active intersection of trains and traffic. The railroad tracks overhead are used by trains of Norfolk Southern Railway, Virginia Railway Express (Manassas Line), and Amtrak. Virginia Railway Express and Amtrak together account for 90 trains using the overpass each week. In the vicinity of Colchester Overpass, Colchester Road is narrow and winding, with limited visibility. In Fairfax County, Virginia, it is illegal to trespass on posted railroad tracks and to loiter in a public roadway. \n\"Bunnyman\", the final song on , a 2010 compilation album<ref name=\"C/A/T - Music To Piss You Off\"></ref> by rhythmic noise/industrial artist C/A/T (Chaos and Terror), centers around the Bunny Man legend.\n\nThe 2011 slasher film \"Bunnyman\" is an exploitation-style version of the story.\n\nIn 2017, Badwolf Brewing Company, of Manassas, Virginia, released their hoppy, red lager known as The Bunny Man in a can that depicted the tunnel, a figure in a bunny suit, and a child holding a red balloon.\n\nThe 2017 Amazon original series \"Lore\", based on the podcast of the same name, uses the Bunny Man legend to introduce the second episode of Season 1.\n\nIn episode \"Let's Get Scared\", host Chris Gethard dresses as the Bunny Man for the full episode.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25079983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25079983", "title": "CEBIT", "text": "CEBIT\n\nCeBIT was the largest and most internationally representative computer expo. The trade fair was held each year on the Hanover fairground, the world's largest fairground, in Hanover, Germany. In its day, it was considered a barometer of current trends and a measure of the state of the art in information technology. It was organized by Deutsche Messe AG.\n\nWith an exhibition area of roughly 450,000 m² (5 million ft²) and a peak attendance of 850,000 visitors during the dot-com boom, it was larger both in area and attendance than its Asian counterpart COMPUTEX and its no-longer held American equivalent COMDEX. CeBIT is a German language acronym for \"Centrum für Büroautomation, Informationstechnologie und Telekommunikation\", which translates as \"Center for Office Automation, Information Technology and Telecommunication\".\n\nThe final CeBIT took place from June 11 to 15, 2018.\n\nCeBIT was traditionally the computing part of the Hanover Fair, a big industry trade show held every year. It was first established in 1970, with the opening of the Hanover fairground's new Hall 1, then the largest exhibition hall in the world. However, in the 1980s the information technology and telecommunications part was straining the resources of the trade fair so much that it was given a separate trade show starting in 1986, which was held four weeks earlier than the main Hanover Fair.\n\nWhile by 2007 the CeBIT expo attendance had shrunk to around 200,000 from those all-time highs, attendance rebounded to 334,000 by 2010. The 2008 expo was marred by the police raids of 51 exhibitors for patent infringement. In 2009, the U.S. state of California became official Partner State of Germany's IT and telecommunications industry association, BITKOM, and of CeBIT 2009. focusing on environmentally-friendly technologies.\n\nOn November 28 2018, Deutsche Messe AG announced that due to increasingly declining visitor and exhibitioner numbers, CeBIT will be indefinitely canceled for the foreseeable\nfuture. This makes CeBIT 2018 the final event. \n\nAs CeBIT continued to grow quickly and was becoming too big on its own, it was decided to concentrate on the professional market, while the home and entertainment market was given a separate show, CeBIT Home, during summer, planned to be biennial. However, after being held twice (in 1996 and 1998), the 2000 CeBIT Home (had originally been scheduled to be held in Leipzig due to the Expo 2000 being held in Hanover) was cancelled and the project was abandoned.\n\nSince 1999 the CeBIT sponsor Deutsche Messe AG (\"German Trade Show, Inc.\") has organized trade shows outside of Germany bearing the CeBIT name:\n\nRunning over a five-day period in Hanover, Germany, the CeBIT Global Conferences (CGC) are staged congruently with the CeBIT exhibition. The conferences are dedicated to providing a 360° overview of the digital industry’s four core markets: IT, Telecommunications, Digital Media and Consumer Electronics. Noted industry figures and researchers from across the globe are invited to speak on the latest relevant trends and innovations as well as their impact on society and the working world. The conference is divided up into keynote speeches, talks and panel discussions. The CGC conferences are produced by Deutsche Messe AG, with the German BITKOM association acting as the CGC patron since 2009. In 2014, the CGC were staged with 140 speakers on three stages with a program of 70 conference hours and 3000 participants. Target groups of the conference are CXOs, managers, experts, visionaries and out-of-the-box thinkers, Conference languages are English and German.\n\nRecent conferences have featured the following keynote themes:\n\nThe motto of the CeBIT Global Conferences for 2011 was \"The Power of Creativity and Innovation\".\n\nSteve Wozniak, Co-founder Apple Computer, Jimmy Wales, founder Wikipedia, Eugene Kaspersky, CEO and Chairman, Kaspersky Lab, Mark Shuttleworth, founder, Canonical, Neelie Kroes, Vice President, European Commission, Sir Nigel Shadbolt, Chairman and Co-Founder, Open Data Institute (ODI), Dean Douglas, CEO Unify, Cristina Riesen, General Manager Europe, Evernote, Mikko Hyppönen, Chief Research Officer, F-Secure.\n\nOver the past years, speakers at the CeBIT Global Conferences have included Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Governor of California; Kevin Turner, COO, Microsoft, Craig Barrett, Chairman of the Board, Intel, Jon Iwata SVP Marketing & Communications, IBM, Reid Hoffman, Chairman and CEO, LinkedIn; Scott Durchslag, COO, Skype; Dr. Werner Vogels, Vice President & CTO, Amazon, Stewart Butterfield, Co-founder of Flickr.com, Michael T. Jones, Chief Technology Advocate, Google & Founder of Google Earth; Mark Kingdon, CEO, LindenLab.\n\nCeBIT has also become a platform for recognising achievement by ICT businesses, particularly in Australia. The awards include the Excellence in Communications Award, the Advanced Retail Technology Award, the Innovative IT Security Award, and the Early Innovators Award. Notable past winners include Motorola, McAfee and eWAY.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26558506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26558506", "title": "Causes of the May Revolution", "text": "Causes of the May Revolution\n\nThe May Revolution () was a series of revolutionary political and social events that took place during the early nineteenth century in the city of Buenos Aires, capital of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, a colony of the Spanish Crown which at the time contained the present-day nations of Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay. The consequence of the revolution was that the head of the Viceroyalty, Viceroy Cisneros, was ousted from office, and role of government was assumed by the Primera Junta. There are many reasons, both local and international, that promoted such developments.\n\nThe United States had emancipated themselves from the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1776, which provided a tangible example that led Criollos to believe that revolution and independence from Spain could be realistic aims. In the time between 1775 and 1783 the Thirteen Colonies started the American Revolution, first rejecting the governance of the Parliament of Great Britain, and later the British monarchy itself, and waged the American Revolutionary War against their former rulers. The changes were not only political, but also intellectual and social, combining both a strong government with personal liberties. The text of the Declaration of Independence stated that all men are created equal (and thus become equal before the law), and had unalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. They had also chosen a republican form of government, instead of keeping a monarchic one. Even more, the fact that Spain aided the colonies in their struggle against Britain weakened the argument that ending allegiance to the mother country could be considered a crime.\n\nThe ideals of the French Revolution of 1789 were spreading as well. During the Revolution, centuries of monarchy were ended with the overthrow and execution of the King Louis XVI and Queen Marie Antoinette, and the removal of the privileges of the nobility. The Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen was highly popular among the young Criollos. The French Revolution also boosted liberal ideals in political and economic fields. Some of the most notable political liberal authors, who opposed monarchies and absolutism, were Voltaire, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Montesquieu, Denis Diderot and Jean Le Rond d'Alembert, while the most notorious economic liberal was Adam Smith. Liberal ideas also reached the church, and the concept of the divine right of kings started to be questioned. Francisco Suárez claimed that political power did not pass directly from God to the governor, but to the population and through it to the governor. According to Suarez, such power belongs to the people and is delegated to the governor, but if such governors did not serve the public good as they should, they would become tyrants and the people would have the right to fight them and choose new governors. The falling consensus about the divine right being legitimate gave room to monarchies being replaced by republics in France and the United States, but also to constitutional monarchies, such as in Great Britain.\n\nHowever, the spread of such idea was mainly forbidden in the Spanish territories, as well as the traffic in related books or their unauthorized possession. Such blockades started when Spain declared war on France after the execution of Louis XVI, but remained after the peace treaty of 1796. Nevertheless, the events of 1789 and the statements of the French Revolution spread around Spain despite the efforts to keep them at bay. Even more, the National Convention declared that France would give shelter and aid to all populations aiming to become free, and made many plans to disrupt the power of Spain over their overseas colonies. Many enlightened Criollos came into contact with those authors and their works during university studies. such as Manuel Belgrano in Spain or Mariano Moreno, Juan José Castelli or Bernardo Monteagudo at the American university in Chuquisaca. Books from the US also found their way into the Spanish colonies through Caracas, due to the closeness of Venezuela to the United States and West Indies.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution started in Britain, with manual labour and horse-drawn vehicles being replaced by machine-based manufacturing and transportation aided by railways and steam power. This led to dramatic increases in the productive capabilities of Britain, and the need of new markets to sell the surplus of coal, steel and clothes. The Napoleonic Wars, where Britain was at war with France, made this a difficult task, after Napoleon countered the British naval blockade with the Continental System, not allowing Britain to trade with any other European country. Thus, England needed to be able to trade with the Spanish colonies, but could not do so because they were restricted to trade only with their own metropoli. For this end they tried to conquer key cities during the British invasions, and after it to promote their emancipation. The Industrial Revolution also gave room to authors who proposed a liberal economy, like Adam Smith. François Quesnay compared the worldwide economy with a living organism, stating that economics worked beyond political power and should not be affected by it.\n\nThe Napoleonic wars were taking place in Europe, involving France, Great Britain and most European countries. Portugal broke the blockade imposed on British trade and, as a result, was invaded by France. However, the Royal Family and the bulk of the kingdom's administration fled to colonial Brazil, in a move to preserve Portuguese sovereignty. Under the pretext of reinforcing the Franco-Spanish army occupying Portugal, French Imperial troops began filing into Spain. Shortly before the Spanish King Charles IV abdicated due to the mutiny of Aranjuez and gave the throne to his son, Ferdinand VII. Feeling that he was forced to abdicate, Charles IV requested that Napoleon restore him to power. Napoleon helped remove Ferdinand VII from power, but did not return the crown to the former king: instead, he crowned his own brother Joseph Bonaparte, as the new Spanish King. This whole process is known as the Abdications of Bayonne. Joseph's designation found severe resistance in Spain, and the Junta of Seville took power in the absence of the King. Until then, Spain had been an ally of France against Britain, but at this point the Spanish resistance changed sides and allied with Britain against France. The Junta of Seville was eventually defeated as well, being replaced by another one located in Cádiz.\n\nDuring colonial times Spain was the only buyer of goods from the viceroyalty, and by law it was forbidden to trade with other nations. This situation damaged the viceroyalty, as Spain's economy was not powerful enough to buy and sell the quantities of goods that the Americas required. and many of them were even brought by Spain to France or Britain and then resold in the Americas at a higher price. Buenos Aires was even more damaged, as Spain did not send enough ships to the city. To prevent the risk of piracy the trade ships had to be followed by war ships, which made the journey very expensive. Lacking any gold or silver resources, or established indigenous populations to employ systems of encomienda, it was more profitable for Spain to send them all to Mexico or Lima. This led Buenos Aires to develop a system of smuggling to obtain, by illegal means, the products that could not be received otherwise. This smuggling was allowed by most local authorities, and developed similar amounts of traffic as the legal commerce with Spain. This whole situation developed two antagonistic groups: the ones who made leather products and wanted free commerce to be able to sell them, and the ones who benefited from the prices of the smuggled products, which would have to sell them at lower prices if such commerce was allowed.\n\nIn the political structure most authoritative positions were filled by people designated by the Spanish monarchy, most of them Spanish people from Europe, without strong compromises with American problems or interests. This created a growing rivalry between the Criollos, people born in America, and the Peninsulares, people arrived from Europe (the term \"Criollo\" is usually translated to English as \"Creole\", despite being unrelated to most other Creole peoples). Despite the fact that all of them were considered Spanish, and that there was no legal distinction between Criollos and Peninsulares, most Criollos thought that Peninsulares had undue weight in political conflicts and expected a higher intervention in them, sentiment shared by the lower clergy. This practice was mainly the result of social prejudice. Criollos were also angered by the ease of immigrants from Spain, regardless of having humble origins, to acquire properties and social distinction that was negated to them. This rivalry evolved later into a rivalry between supporters of becoming autonomous from Spain and supporters of keeping things the way they were. However, this process was much slower than the one experimented by the British colonies in North America, in part because the educative system was managed almost exclusively by the clergy, influencing the development of a population as conservative as in the mother country.\n\nUnlike the European countries and, to some degree, the United States, the Spanish colonies lacked a sense of peoplehood, a needed factor for the development of a nation. The Spanish colonies were carefully designed as extensions of Spain itself, being completely dependent in economic, cultural and political terms to the mother country.\n\nBuenos Aires and Montevideo had successfully resisted two British invasions. The first one was in 1806, when a British army led by William Carr Beresford took control of Buenos Aires, until it was defeated by an army from Montevideo, led by Santiago de Liniers. The following year a bigger army took Montevideo, but failed to take Buenos Aires, being forced to surrender and leave both cities. There was no Spanish aid from Europe either time, and to prepare for the second invasion Liniers formed militias with Criollos, despite regulations prohibiting such militias. This gave them military power and political influence they did not have before, with the biggest Criollo army being the Patricios Regiment led by Cornelio Saavedra. This victory achieved without help also boosted confidence in independence, by showing that Spanish aid was not needed. The prestige earned by Buenos Aires before the other cities of the viceroyalty was exploited by Juan José Paso during the open cabildo to justify taking immediate action and hearing the opinions of other cities afterwards.\n\nBy the ending of 1808 the whole Royal Family of Portugal left Europe, with the country being attacked by Napoleon, and settled in Brazil. The regent prince arrived with his wife, Charlotte Joaquina, daughter of Charles IV and sister of Ferdinand VII. When the news of the imprisonment of Ferdinand VII arrived in South America, Charlotte tried to take control of the viceroyalties as regent, a project known as Carlotism. She could do so due to the derogation of the salic law by Charles IV in 1789, and she intended to prevent a French invasion in the Americas. Some Criollos like Castelli, Beruti, Vieytes and Belgrano supported the project, considering it a chance to get a local government instead of one in Europe, or a medium for a later declaration of independence. Other Criollos like Moreno, Paso or Saavedra were critics of it, as well as most peninsular Spaniards and Viceroy Liniers. They suspected the whole project of concealing Portuguese ambitions in the region, and her public image wasn't positive: the people around her in Brazil (like the infant Pedro Carlos de Bourbon), and her relations with her husband, caused strong public dislike. Charlotte also rejected her supporters, as they intended her to lead a constitutional monarchy, while she wanted to retain an absolute monarchy. Britain, with strong presence in Portugal, also opposed the project: they did not want to let Spain, now allied with them against France, be split into many kingdoms, and did not consider Charlotte able to prevent separatism.\n\n"}
{"id": "31819707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31819707", "title": "Challenging Impossibility", "text": "Challenging Impossibility\n\nChallenging Impossibility is a 2011 documentary film which chronicles the weightlifting odyssey of the spiritual teacher Sri Chinmoy, who in 1985 at the age of 54 took up weightlifting and performing feats of strength using the power of meditation. His lifts were featured on newscasts worldwide, inspiring people to transcend their personal limitations and to abandon their concepts of the restrictions of physical age. Directed by Natabara Rollosson and Sanjay Rawal. The film was an Official Selection of the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival and premiered April 22, 2011.\n\nThe subject of \"Challenging Impossibility\" is the weightlifting odyssey of Sri Chinmoy, a spiritual teacher who came from India to live in New York City and began lifting weights at the age of 54. The film features news footage and interviews with bodybuilders, strongmen, olympians, and biomechanics experts. The film follows a historical narrative that builds upon a public display of strength that Sri Chinmoy performed in 2004 at York College.\n\nStarting out with basic dumbbells (40 lbs) in 1985, Sri Chinmoy quickly progressed to lift cars, planes and elephants in an effort to show how meditation can develop inner peace that can translate to tangible outer power and strength. Along Chinmoy’s journey of “self-transcendence” he honored and inspired individuals who have uplifted humanity by literally lifting them on a platform above head in an award program titled \"Lifting Up the World with a Oneness-Heart\". From its creating in 1987, Sri Chinmoy lifted over 7000 people, including Nelson Mandela, Desmond Tutu Muhammad Ali, Sting, Eddie Murphy, Susan Sarandon, Roberta Flack, Yoko Ono, Jeff Goldblum, and Richard Gere.\n\nChinmoy’s training culminated when he held a public demonstration of his feats of strength at age 73 in the presence of strength experts such as 5-time Mr. Universe Bill Pearl, 3-time Mr. Olympia Frank Zane, 2002 World’s Strongest Man Hugo Girard and 9-time Olympic Gold-Medalist Carl Lewis. In the film, Lewis described how when Sri Chinmoy lifted weights, “It’s like gravity stops”. Chinmoy’s lifts were featured on newscasts worldwide on outlets such as CNN, CNN International, ABC, NBC, CBS, Fox, and numerous local affiliates. Chinmoy performed his own strenuous feats to spread his message of world harmony and inner peace, to inspire people to transcend their personal limitations and to abandon their concepts of the restrictions of physical age. Appearances in the film also include Mikhail Gorbachev, Pope John Paul II, Mother Teresa, and Princess Diana.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival in New York on April 22, 2011 in a new bracket of inspiring short documentaries in which \"positive thinking prevails\". At the premier, Carl Lewis described how Sri Chinmoy encouraged him to transcend his own personal limitations. \"Sri Chinmoy inspired me and he's followed my career, actually he's one of the few people that had been to all four of my Olympic Games...when you were in his presence it was always positive, you never heard anything negative, he was always inspiring you to be better than yourself and think about other people.\" Also in attendance for the premier were Frank Zane, Hugo Girard, Nadine Tremblay, and Wayne DeMilia, who all appear in the film.\n\nA pop-up exhibition of Chinmoy’s weightlifting equipment that appeared in the film. The exhibit coincided with the premier of the film in Tribeca from April 15 to May 2, 2011.\n\nOn display were numerous custom-made machines, such as a standing calf raise machine which Sri Chinmoy used to set a record of lifting 2,400 pounds, \"the equivalent of lifting an elevator packed full of people\". Among the machines was also the apparatus Sri Chinmoy used to lift people in his \"Lifting Up the World with a Oneness-Heart\" program, which he used to honor individuals of inspiration by lifting them overhead on a platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "25963445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25963445", "title": "Charles Burnett Wilson", "text": "Charles Burnett Wilson\n\nCharles Burnett “C.B.” Wilson (4 July 1850 – 12 September 1926) was a British and Tahitian superintendent of the water works, fire chief under King Kalākaua, and Marshal of the Kingdom under Queen Liliuokalani. and father of John H. Wilson.\n\nC. B. Wilson was born at sea, on a voyage between Tahiti and Fanning Island on July 4, 1850. His father Charles Burnett Wilson (1801–1853) was Scottish by ethnicity and British subject but grew up in Papeete, Tahiti and became sea trader and captain of his own ship. He was moving his family Fanning Island to establish a coconut plantation for producing coconut oil. His mother was Tetaria, a Tahitian chiefess. Wilson's father continued searching for unmapped island in the Pacific. He was lost at sea en route from Australian to New Zealand in 1853. Tetaria, strained from the stresses of rearing two sons on a plantation island, handed over Wilson and his younger brother Richard to Captain Harry English who ran the plantation, while she returned to Tahiti. English left Wilson and his brother to a Captain Smith and his wife in Hawaii who ran a school which Wilson was enrolled in. Wilson was put on a career path of becoming a blacksmith. He married a hula dancer and friend of Liliuokalani, Eveline Townsend. Their son Johnny became a co-founder of Democratic Party of Hawaii and Mayor of Honolulu in the Twentieth century.\n\nIn 1866 Wilson joined the Honolulu Rifles, a militia unit. He was a Sergeant during the 1873 Barracks Revolt and was present in the standoff. He later joined the Royal Guard where he became one of a squad of personal bodyguards to King Kalākaua. During the Honolulu Courthouse Riot, an election riot by supporters of Queen Emma, who attacked the Legislature, Wilson rescued four representatives, three in a carriage by preventing rioters from overturning it, and catching one representative that was thrown out a courthouse window. On January 31, 1876 Wilson made First Lieutenant and Captain on March 16, 1877.\n\nWilson was appointed Superintendent of the Water Works July 1, 1882 and fire chief on July 1, 1886. In 1886 Wilson was accused of embezzling money from customer payments. An investigation by the Legislature found that a sum of approximately $16,000 were missing from the Water Works, and Wilson was blamed, although there is a possibility his predecessor was actually responsible. He paid back $10,000, Liliuokalani paid $5,000, and half of Wilson’s salary was garnished until the missing money was made up. Wilson became involved in a plot to overthrow Kalākaua and replace him with his sister Liliuokalani in what became known as the Dominis Conspiracy. The plot was discovered, the conspirators surrendered, but Wilson was not charged, possibly because he was suspected of merely having been playing both sides.\n\nAfter the death of King Kalākaua, Liliuokalani inherited the throne January 29, 1891. Wilson was appointed Marshal of the Kingdom March 9 that year. Wilson had a strong secular view of running the police forces and loosely regulated Christian based laws on alcohol, gambling, and opium. He described these laws as “offenses created by statute, upon the commission of which the moral sense of the community apparently casts but little stigma.” On these matters warnings were issued for excessively inappropriate conduct, if not improved would lead to arrests. He supported legalizing opium to legitimize and better regulate the drug. Wilson's appointment to Marshal is still seen as a contradiction since the queen was a devout Christian.\n\nDue to Wilson’s lenient interpretation of the law he made enemies with Social and Christian Conservatives. On the other side of the political spectrum the Liberals began to criticize Liliuokalani for not replacing the hated Bayonet Constitution and Wilson exposed a plot by members of the Liberal Party, calling themselves the Hawaiian Patriotic League, to overthrow the queen and replace the constitution themselves which became known as the Burlesque Conspiracy. Before the elections of 1892 Wilson himself confronted the Queen to create a new constitution, one speculation is that he threatened to lead a mutiny of the armed forces in protest of the 1887 Constitution.\n\nAfter populous pressure Liliuokalani began to draft a new constitution. On January 16, 1893 Wilson was tipped off by detectives to another coup to overthrow the Hawaiian monarchy this time by the Committee of Safety, the 13 leaders of the Hawaiian League a group within the Reform Party who had forced the Bayonet Constitution on King David Kalākaua, and were willing to overthrow the monarchy to maintain it. Wilson requested warrants to arrest the 13 member council, of the Committee of Safety, and put the Kingdom under martial law. Because the members had strong political ties with United States Government Minister John L. Stevens, the requests were repeatedly denied by Attorney General Arthur P. Peterson and the Queen’s cabinet, fearing if approved, the arrests would escalate the situation. After a failed negotiation with Thurston, Wilson began to collect his men for the confrontation. Wilson and Captain of the Royal Household Guard, Samuel Nowlein, had rallied a force of 496 men who were kept at hand to protect the Liliuokalani, but she surrendered Concerning the wellbeing of her men who were woefully out numbered. Wilson was the last commander of the last garrison to surrender at HPD headquarters. In his battle plan he would have made use of the several artillery pieces and two Gatling machine guns of the royal guard, to compensate for their shortage in numbers.\n\nWilson went to Washington D.C. to lobby for the return of the monarchy even when the exiled Kingdom was dissolved in 1895 by Liliuokalani. He is regarded as the last of the former government to give up on restoration the Kingdom. Wilson joined the Hawaii Republican Party (formerly the Reform Party) believing it to be the only way to be an effective politician, but was kept a low ranking member. Despite his party affiliation he accused Republicans of denying his son, John, a civil engineer, government contracts because he was a Democrat, after these criticisms his son was given fair consideration and was able to win contracts. Wilson died in Honolulu September 12, 1926.\n"}
{"id": "47761928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47761928", "title": "Countess of Derwentwater", "text": "Countess of Derwentwater\n\nAmelia Matilda Mary Tudor Radclyffe, soi-disant Countess of Derwentwater, was a 19th-century claimant to the estates of the Earls of Derwentwater. She claimed to be the granddaughter of John Radclyffe, only son of the third Earl, and in 1860 commenced to agitate for her rights, initially contacting Lord Petre as the representative of descendants of the family using the name of Lady Matilda Radclyffe.\n\nIn September 1868, Amelia took active steps to assert her claim by forcibly taking possession of the old ruined castle at Dilston.\n\nShe hoisted the Radclyffe flag on the ancient tower, and suspended portraits of the family on the ruined walls of the principal hall. Conformable to instructions from the Lords of the Admiralty, she was ejected by their agent, when she took up residence in a tent on the side of the road. After other proceedings she was imprisoned for contempt of court, her claim having formally been investigated and found to be invalid. Nevertheless, by her eccentric conduct in the prosecution of her claim, she continued to keep constantly before the public until her death, at her residence in Durham Road, Durham, 26 Feb. 1880, aged 49.\n\nShe was an accomplished woman, a lover of fine art, and an artist in oil, and she was powerfully and sincerely impressed with the righteousness of her claim. Her death was caused by bronchitis, after five days' illness. She had expressed a wish to be buried in the Radclyffe vault at Hexham, but her desire could not be complied with, and she was consequently buried at Blackhill Cemetery, Consett near Durham.\nHer assertions, published in her jottings were that John Radclyffe, the son of the last Earl of Derwentwater, and de jure 4th Earl of Derwentwater did not die in 1732, but was trafficked to Germany, and in 1740 married at Frankfort-on-Maine, Elizabeth Arabella Maria, Countess of Waldstein. He died there in 1798, in his eighty-sixth year.\n\nHis son James, at that time in his fifty-fifth year, was his heir, and was married to Eleanora the Countess Mouravieff, but leaving no issue, was succeeded by his brother, John James, who was born at Alston, in Cumberland, in 1764. The latter died in 1833, having married, late in life, Amelia Anna Charlotte, Princess Sobieski, a descendant of the noted Polish family of that name. They had issue several children, of whom John James, born in 1816, and Amelia Matilda Radclyffe, the soi-disant Countess of Derwentwater, were the only survivors.\n\nAmelia’s true identity remains a mystery. Ralph Arnold in his 1959 book \"Northern Lights\" suggests that she may have been a lady’s maid from Dover by the name of Burke though he offers no further explanation of this. The Northumbrian Jacobites website suggest that she may have been a West Country servant girl trying her luck. It is possible that she was descended illegitimately from the Radclyffes of Dilston Castle and that this connection had fuelled her belief in her own claims.\n\nShe was reported on widely in contemporary news articles, the following appearing in the Hobart Mercury in October 1871:\n\nTHE COUNTESS OF DERWENTWATER ON HER TRAVELS\n\nThe Countess of Derwentwater is a character. Recently she took a steamer at Jersey City for Liverpool, and the goods she carried with her wore thus inventoried :-One guitar, with two strings ; two old cane-seated chairs, one with two legs ; three empty four-gallon demijohns, uncorked two peacocks and a black-and-tan, in a box ; two broken children's cribs of mahogany, one without rockers ; one cross-breed hound of English birth ; one champagne bucket, covered with dust ; one broken painter's easel ; three rickety deckchairs, with varnish scraped off; one bag of tin ware; one six by three pedestal, without statuette, cracked ; four plain square Irish chests, two painted rod and two black, locks broken and hanging, each marked in white letters, \" Countess D. ;\" two mammoth chests, cross-tied with half-inch clothes-line, with same mark ; those contained the Countess' numerous hats ; fifteen very ancient-looking trunks, tied across the sides and double-knotted at the back ; one tray for mixing dough ; two tin berth room trunks ; one bundle loose clothing ; two portable hat racks, rather worn ; six cases of mysteriously packed bottles, supposed to be ale ; Huge crates of sauces, mixed pickles, and catsups, put up in every conceivable shape ; one copper-coloured work-box done up in oil ; seven heavy treble-twilled English travelling shawls tied with twine; thirteen gray woolen blankets made in form of\" shake down;\" seventeen packages of files of newspapers. The Countess wore on this occasion a green silk dress, a white crape shawl, a pair of white silk gloves, etc. When the labourers took hold of the box containing the lady's favourite peacocks and the black-and-tan, the curious crowd pressed down on the countess until her lace-trimmed bonnet took a peep skyward, and her costly shawl swept the rough boards of the pier. \"Handle 'em gently; they’re my only loves !\" she sharply cried, as she broke through the jeering crowd, and reached the foot of the gang plank. \"This remarkable woman,\" says the Suit, “has a fine estate in the north of England, in the county of Cumberland, called Derwentwater. She has always been noted for her eccentric manner and antiquated notions. Her wardrobe is said to consist of over two hundred rich and elaborately trimmed dresses, girted with gold lace, fringes, and parti-colored velvets. She wears no diamonds, and but one plain finger ring adorns her hands. She claims to have among her apparel robes worn by some of the belles of the time of William the Conqueror, and when she travels, those are part of her personal luggage, carefully packed in the fifteen trunks mentioned, which are as antiquated as the dresses. Her appearance indicates an age not beyond forty, though possibly older. She will visit Scotland and Wales before returning to her home.\"\n\nDeath\n\nWhen the 'Countess' died on 27 February 1880, the 'Newcastle Courant' printed the following\nobituary:-\n\n'Information has just reached this place [Consett] of the death, at half-past two o'clock this morning, of the 'Countess of Derwentwater,' the lady who laid claim to the vast estates which formerly belonged to the Derwentwater family, and whose eccentric conduct in the prosecution of her claim has kept her constantly before the public. It is now 20 years since this lady first notified to the world at large her claim, and her career since then has been full of interesting incidents. History records the death of John Radcliffe, the fourth Earl of Derwentwater, at the early age of nineteen, his death taking place at London in 1731. The Countess, however, asserted that the fourth Earl, instead of dying a minor in London, was smuggled over to Germany where he married in 1741, and left a large family, that to him succeeded a fifth, sixth,and seventh earl, and of this seventh earl she was a daughter, and only surviving heiress of the male descendants in a direct line. Twenty years ago, the soi-disant Countess left the foreign home of her ancestors to assume the grandeur they had so carefully shirked. On her arrival in this country, like the Tichborne claimant, she communicated her identity to those associates whom she also deemed worthy of her confidence, but, feeling perhaps, her case required some strengthening, and that sundry links in her chain of evidence were either wanting or decidedly rusty, she resolved to restrict immediate operations to the sending of a vague warning to the tenants on the various estates. In 1869, her Ladyship having made such preparations as seemed to her adequate for the purpose, once more emerged from obscurity, and having the sympathy of the masses, and being reinforced by an energetic aide-de-camp in the person of Harry Brown, then a bailiff of the Shotley Bridge Court, the campaign was opened with considerable pluck and activity. The local agents of the Admiralty were at Haydon Bridge on the occasion of one of the regular rent days appointed, and a large portion of the tenants were duly in attendance. Whilst the receiver was proceeding with the business in hand, a strange diversion was created by the entrance of the \"Countess,\" accompanied by her henchman, and accoutred after a somewhat novel fashion of warlike equipment. Having duly announced her name, she warned the tenants present that the gentleman then receiving their rents was not authorised by her to do so, and called upon them to pay their respective amounts to herself. The tenants, of course, preferred to make their payments to the receiver, and, as the lady unceremoniously interrupted the proceedings, it was deemed advisable to induce her, if possible by argument, or, failing that, by severe measures, to quit the room. The quieter method having proved unavailing, and a threatened resort to qualified force having roused a slumbering lion,a somewhat lively scene ensued. Eventually the room was cleared, but not until a blow had been struck, for being armed with an antiquated sword, her ladyship drew the weapon, and a short struggle ensued, resulting in the snapping of the blade of the weapon. The immediate object of this first movement had failed, but great advantage was derived from the prominent place the extraordinary proceedings gained for her in the public interest.'\n\nAlthough it is unlikely that there was truth in Amelia’s claims it is certain that she was in no way entitled to call herself Countess of Derwentwater as the title was only able to be passed through a male line. Given that the title had been attainted after the 1715 uprising the use of any title was inappropriate regardless of the truth of Amelia's claims.\n\nA plaque was attached to the previously unmarked grave of Amelia in 2012 in Blackhill Cemetery, near Consett, County Durham. Members of the Northumbrian Jacobite Society added a plaque to a small stone cross, which had been previously erected by society members George and Lorraine Hunter. \n"}
{"id": "2300849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300849", "title": "Cry Me a River (Justin Timberlake song)", "text": "Cry Me a River (Justin Timberlake song)\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" is a song recorded by American singer and songwriter Justin Timberlake for his debut studio album, \"Justified\" (2002). It was written by Timberlake and Scott Storch with producer Timbaland and was inspired by Timberlake's former relationship with singer Britney Spears. Jive Records released the song to contemporary hit and rhythmic radio in the United States on November 25, 2002, as the album's second single. Accompanied by an electric piano, beatbox, guitars, synthesizers, Arabian-inspired riffs and Gregorian chants, \"Cry Me a River\" is an R&B song about a brokenhearted man who moves on from his last girlfriend, who had cheated on him with another man.\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" received acclaim from music critics, who considered it a stand-out track on \"Justified\" and praised Timbaland's production. The song earned several lists of best of the year and the decade (2000s), while \"Rolling Stone\" included it on their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time at 484. It won a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance at the 2004 ceremony. The song peaked at number three on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and Pop Songs charts and charted in the top ten in other countries. It was certified double platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) and platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI).\n\nFilmmaker Francis Lawrence directed the music video for \"Cry Me a River\" in Malibu, California. In the controversial video, Timberlake's character invades the home of his ex-lover and films himself having sexual relations with another woman. Spears alleged that the video was a publicity stunt, but Timberlake maintained that she did not inspire the production. The clip won the awards for Best Male Video and Best Pop Video at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. Timberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" on his four major concert tours: The Justified World Tour (2003–04), Justified and Stripped Tour (2003), FutureSex/LoveShow (2007), and The 20/20 Experience World Tour (2013–15). The song has been covered by various recording artists, including Leona Lewis and Taylor Swift.\n\nTimberlake and Scott Storch wrote \"Cry Me a River\" with Timbaland, who produced the song. Storch found working with Timberlake easy because of the song's meaning. Reporters believed its lyrics were inspired by Timberlake's romantic relationship with American recording artist Britney Spears, which ended in 2002. Timberlake told MTV News, \"I'm not going to specifically say if any song is about anybody. I will say writing a couple of songs on the record helped me deal with a couple of things. To me songs are songs. They can stem from things that completely happened to you personally or they can stem from ideas that you think could happen to you.\" In December 2011, Timberlake admitted that he had written \"Cry Me a River\" after an argument with Spears: \"I was on a phone call that was not the most enjoyable phone call. I walked into the studio and he [Timbaland] could tell I was visibly angry.\" Timbaland recalled, \"I was like, 'Man, don't worry about it' and he was like, 'I can't believe she did that to me' and he was like, 'You were my sun, you were my earth'\".\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" was recorded at Westlake Recording Studios in Los Angeles by Senator Jimmy D, while Carlos \"Storm\" Martinez served as the assistant engineer. Jimmy Douglass and Timbaland mixed the song at Manhattan Center Studios in New York City. Timberlake arranged the vocals and was a backup singer alongside Timbaland, Marsha Ambrosius, Tye Tribbett and Greater Anointing. Storch compared Timberlake's vocals on \"Cry Me a River\" to R&B and rock singer Daryl Hall. Larry Gold provided the string arrangement and conducting, while Storch and Bill Pettaway played the clavinet and guitar, respectively.\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" was released as the second single from \"Justified\". Jive Records serviced the song to contemporary and rhythmic radio in the United States on November 25, 2002. On December 23, three remixes were released as a 12-inch single in Canada and France. On January 5, 2003, the song was sent to urban contemporary radio stations in the US. It was released as a CD single in Germany on January 23. The single contains the album version of the song and the remixes on its 12-inch single release. A CD single, which included Johnny Fiasco's remix of the song and two additional remixes of \"Like I Love You\", was released on February 3 and 6 in the United Kingdom and Canada, respectively. \"Cry Me a River\" was released as a CD single in the US on February 18. The single features the album version of the song, its instrumental and four remixes.\n\nFollowing its release, there was media speculation that Spears had written a song as a response to \"Cry Me a River\"; she denied the rumors, explaining, \"You know, it's funny. I read that I wrote this song and I wrote these lyrics and that's not my style. I would never do that.\" Annet Artani, who co-wrote Spears' 2003 song \"Everytime\", stated that the song was written as a response to \"Cry Me a River\". When asked during an interview with Diane Sawyer on \"PrimeTime\" in 2003, if \"Everytime\" was about Timberlake, Spears responded, \"I'll let the song speak for itself.\"\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" is an R&B song with an instrumentation that features clavinet, guitars, beatboxing, synthesizers, Arabian-inspired riffs and Gregorian chants. The instruments are arranged into what critics described as a graceful and mysterious melody. Jane Stevenson of \"Jam!\" said the single combines gospel and opera. Tyler Martin of Stylus Magazine enjoyed the way that the song unconventionally mixed a range of experimental sounds. According to Martin, the wave synth affects the real strings to create an unusual dissonance. The song's chorus devolves into a choral reading in which Timberlake pleads over the group. \"Cry Me a River\" finishes with a Timbaland vocal sample.\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" is written in the key of G minor, in \"alla breve\", with a tempo of 74 beats per minute. The song's vocal range spans from C to B. \"Billboard\" magazine critics called \"Cry Me a River\" a bittersweet song, in which Timberlake's \"familiar tenor belting\" is tempered with a soulful falsetto and a \"convincingly aggressive rock-spiked baritone\" rasp. David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" labeled the song \"a haunted, pained farewell\".\n\nLyrically, the song is about a brokenhearted man who moves on from his past. A \"Rolling Stone\" reviewer called the song a \"breakup aria\". According to Caroline Sullivan of \"The Guardian\", \"Cry Me a River\" stands out for its \"slow-building sense of drama\", which highlights Timberlake at his \"husky best\". The song begins with the phrase \"You were my sun, you were my earth\", which according to Timbaland was Timberlake's inspiration to write the song. Tanya L. Edwards of MTV News observed that Timberlake was wronged and said this is demonstrated by the lyrics: \"You don't have to say whatcha did / I already know, I found out from him / Now there's just no chance.\" The chorus contains the lines: \"Told me you loved me, why did you leave me all alone / Now you tell me you need me when you call me on the phone.\" \"Slant Magazine\"'s Sal Cinquemani called Timberlake's 2007 single \"What Goes Around... Comes Around\" an ostensible sequel to \"Cry Me a River\" both lyrically and musically. Jason Lipshutz of \"Billboard\" stated that aside from the presence of Timbaland's \"fantastically cluttered production\", the difference between \"Cry Me a River\" and Timberlake's 2013 single \"Mirrors\" is clear: \"10 years ago, Timberlake was broken, and now he is whole\".\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" received acclaim from critics. Jane Stevenson of Jam! and Sal Cinquemani of \"Slant Magazine\" regarded it as a stand-out track from \"Justified\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic selected the song as a highlight in his review of \"Justified\". Peter Robinson of \"NME\" called it a \"twisted epic\" and \"an acidic, filthy little song teeming with spite and retribution, with Timbaland's pounding.\" \"Rolling Stone\"s Ben Ratliff viewed his production of \"Cry Me a River\" as exceptional. Denise Boyd of BBC Music felt that the song's lyrics play as large a role as Timbaland's production, unlike other songs on \"Justified\". David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" concluded that the song is \"a genuine stunner\" that should leave Timberlake's fellow 'N Syncers concerned that he truly may not need them any more. John Mitchell of MTV News called \"Cry Me a River\" and \"What Goes Around... Comes Around\" \"kiss-off songs\", with Timberlake's revenge on Spears present throughout the lyrics. Idolator staff opined it is the sound of an artist who is \"relishing ripping up people's perceptions of him as a sweet-natured teen heartthrob.\" VH1's Emily Exton wrote, \"By stretching the boundaries of pop–and fusing it with notes of R&B, lots of electric goodness, and haunting choral vocals–Timberlake’s kiss-off song instantly becomes more poignant, a pointed reaction to the hurt he’s experienced by someone he once loved.\" According to \"Complex\", the song \"made people completely forget about 'N Sync and start asking what Timberlake would do next.\" The single won a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance at the 2004 award ceremony. It was nominated for Song of the Year at the 2003 MTV Europe Music Awards.\n\nFor \"Pitchfork Media\" it was the 3rd best song of 2003. \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Cry Me a River\" at number 20 on their list of the 100 Best Songs of the 2000s; a columnist for the magazine wrote that the real inspiration behind the song was the formation of the Timberlake–Timbaland team, \"a match made in pop heaven\". In 2012, the magazine placed it at number 484 on their list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time\". VH1 ranked \"Cry Me a River\" at number 59 on their list of the 100 Greatest Songs of the 2000s. \"The Daily Telegraph\" listed the song at number 40 on the \"100 songs that defined the Noughties.\" In 2015, Spotify re-ranked \"Rolling Stone\"'s 500 Greatest Songs in two different lists. \"Cry Me a River\" ranked at number 14 on \"by all Spotify users\" and 10 on \"streams from millennial users\". In 2018, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked the song 46 on their list \"The 100 Greatest Songs of the Century – So Far\".\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" debuted at number 44 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the issue dated December 21, 2002, earning the Hot Shot Debut honor with 29.6 million audience impressions. On February 1, 2003, the single reached a peak of number three, becoming Timberlake's first solo single to reach that position. The song debuted on the US Pop Songs chart at number 37 in the issue dated December 14, 2002 and reached a peak of three on February 1, 2003. For the issue dated December 28, 2002, \"Cry Me a River\" debuted at number 75 on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. It reached a peak of 11 on March 8, 2003. It also peaked at number two on the US Hot Dance Club Songs, becoming Timberlake's second top-three song, after his debut single \"Like I Love You\" reached number one. As of August 2003, remixes of the single have sold more than 61,000 units in the United States. As of 2018, the song has sold 1.2 million copies in the country.\n\nThe song debuted at number two on the Australian Singles Chart on March 9, 2003. It fell to number six in the following week. \"Cry Me a River\" became Timberlake's first top-three solo single on the chart. The song remained on the chart for 12 consecutive weeks. It was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 35,000 units. The single debuted at number 44 in New Zealand on March 9, 2003. After two weeks on the chart, it reached a peak of 11. It remained on the chart for 11 weeks.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Cry Me a River\", debuted at number two on February 15, 2003. The next week it fell to number three, before returning to its original peak on March 1, 2003; it stayed on the chart for 13 weeks. The song has sold over 365,000 copies in the country as of 2015. It debuted at number 14 on the French Singles Chart on April 5, 2003. After three weeks, \"Cry Me a River\" peaked at number six, and it stayed on the chart for 21 weeks. It was less successful on the Italian Singles Chart, where it peaked at number 14 and stayed on the chart for four weeks. \"Cry Me a River\" also peaked at number five in Belgium (Wallonia), at number six in the Republic of Ireland and the Netherlands, at number seven in Belgium (Flanders), and at number 10 in Germany, Norway, and Sweden.\n\nThe music video for \"Cry Me a River\" was directed by Francis Lawrence, and filmed in Malibu, California, during the week of October 29, 2002. Lawrence created the video's concept and told MTV News, \"[Justin and I] had a conversation on the phone and all he said was he wanted to have some dancing in it, but to do my thing. He told me what the song was about, but in a [general way] as well. He just said it was a kiss-off song and so I came up with this idea and he went for it\". Lawrence added that he also included some details in the video, including a reference to Spears's tattoo, which Timberlake enjoyed. He explained that he and Timberlake did not mention names while creating the video, only discussing the song's general beats. Lawrence also revealed that executives of Jive Records were nervous about some aspects of the video, such as Timberlake's representation of a voyeur and the tone of some scenes he was portraying with a girl. \"That's the thing I liked most about this project, was that he was coming into it with a super clean-cut image with 'N Sync and he's such a nice guy and so handsome and what I was into doing was making him be a bit scary. Lurking around the house in the rain, throwing a rock through her window, being a peeping Tom, getting revenge and doing stuff that's not really what a nice guy does.\" The music video for \"Cry Me a River\" was released onto the iTunes Store on April 28, 2003.\nThe video begins with a blonde woman, played by model and actress Lauren Hastings (allegedly portraying Britney Spears), walking out of her house hand-in-hand with an unidentified man. The couple leaves in the woman's car (a silver Porsche) as Timberlake rolls down the window of a black Mercedes, from which he and his friend have been watching the woman. Timberlake breaks into the house by throwing a rock through a window and proceeds through the woman's house, with anti-gravity jumps and slides, not causing any other visible damage, except for kicking a picture frame of the woman across the living room. Then he searches some drawers and finds a video camera, while the driver of the car, Timbaland, signals for his female accomplice in the back of the car, played by model Kiana Bessa, to go in. She enters the house and goes with Timberlake to a bedroom, where she starts to undress and kiss him while being filmed. They stay in the bedroom for a moment; then the accomplice exits the house but Timberlake stays. As the blonde woman returns, he follows her around the house and hides in a closet as she showers. He gets closer to her and touches the glass surrounding the shower. The blonde woman senses someone in the room and turns around, but Timberlake is gone. She leaves the bathroom and goes into her bedroom, where the video he made with his new lover plays on the television.\nPeter Robinson of \"NME\" wrote that the video shows \"what Justin looks like after he's had sex. Clue: he looks pretty good.\" According to Virginia Heffernan of \"The New York Times\", Timberlake channels the character Neo from \"The Matrix\" film series, \"pacing anxiously around wet and metallic interiors\". At the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards, the video for \"Cry Me a River\" won in the categories of Best Male Video and Best Pop Video. It had also been nominated for Video of the Year, Best Direction in a Video and Viewer's Choice.\n\nFollowing the release of the music video, \"Us Weekly\" ran a cover story titled \"Britney Vs. Justin: The War Is On\". Timberlake denied that Spears inspired the video, saying, \"The video is not about her. The video is about me.\" However, Spears told \"Rolling Stone\" in October 2003 that she received a call from Timberlake saying there would be a look-alike of her would be in a music video with him. She states that he reassured her by saying, \"Don't worry about it. It's not a big deal\". Spears, who had not seen the video, says she allowed him to do so but became infuriated after watching it. She recalled that when she asked why he had made a video about her, he replied, \"Well, I got a controversial video.\" She stated that it was a great publicity stunt, commenting, \"So he got what he wanted. I think it looks like such a desperate attempt, personally.\" After the release of Spears' video for \"Toxic\" (2003), Jennifer Vineyard of MTV News said her video \"[made] \"Cry Me a River\" look like child's play\".\n\nIn 2013, \"Billboard\" editor Jason Lipshutz opined the clip was \"one of the more brilliant musical moments in pop music since the dawn of the century. The visual is JT's most controversial music video to date.\" He added, \"The \"Cry Me a River\" video served a dual purpose for Timberlake: to court controversy, and to make its star seem more grown-up.\" In 2018, \"Billboard\" critics named it the 24th \"greatest music video of the 21st century.\"\n\nTimberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" for the first time at the 13th annual \"Billboard\" Music Awards, held on December 9, 2002, at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. He was accompanied by a string section and a 20-member choir. He also performed the song on the Justified World Tour (2003–04), his first worldwide tour. The song was eighth on the set list of Justified/Stripped Tour (2003), his joint North American tour with Christina Aguilera. Timberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" on a promotional concert held at House of Blues in West Hollywood, California on June 17, 2003. He performed a rock-inspired version of the song on \"Saturday Night Live\" on October 11, 2003; and it was fourteenth on the set list of his second worldwide tour, FutureSex/LoveShow (2007).\n\nOn October 23, 2010, while performing at the annual charity gig \"Justin Timberlake and Friends\" in Las Vegas, Timberlake began the show with a slow and \"sultry\" performance of \"Cry Me a River\" and segued into a cover of Bill Withers' 1971 single \"Ain't No Sunshine\". He later resumed \"Cry Me a River\" before segueing into a cover of Drake's 2010 song \"Over\". Jillian Mapes of \"Billboard\" described the performance as \"completely lovely in an effortless sort of way.\" Timberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" at concert he held during the 2013 Super Bowl weekend in New Orleans. Timberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" in a medley with other of his songs at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards. After the performance he accepted a Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the ceremony. Timberlake included the single on the set list of his fifth worldwide concert tour, The 20/20 Experience World Tour (2013–15).\n\nThe song was first covered by Welsh alternative metal band Lostprophets, recorded in a BBC Radio One session. It appears as a b-side of the single Last Train Home, released in 2004. American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift performed a cover of \"Cry Me a River\" in Memphis, Tennessee, during the Speak Now World Tour (2011–12). Justin Bieber recorded a cover of the song together with Kanye West's 2007 single \"Stronger\", which he posted on his YouTube account. Canadian rock band The Cliks also covered the song for their 2007 album \"Snakehouse\". British singer Leona Lewis covered \"Cry Me a River\" during her debut concert tour The Labyrinth (2010). The \"Sheffield Star\" described the version as a \"beautifully, sitting quietly, almost a capella\". American indie pop duo Jack and White covered the song on their 2012 extended play \"Undercover\". Recording artist Kelly Clarkson covered the song on September 1, 2012, as a fan request during her 2012 Summer Tour with The Fray. In January 2013, American singer Selena Gomez performed an acoustic version of \"Cry Me a River\" at the UNICEF charity concert in New York City. In February 2015, Scottish synthpop band Chvrches performed a cover of \"Cry Me a River\" on BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge. The New Jersey alternative metal band 40 Below Summer performed a cover of the song in their 2015 album \"Transmission Infrared\".\n\nRosalía samples the chorus from \"Cry Me a River\" for her song \"Bagdad\" on her album \"El mal querer\" (2018), featuring a Barcelona children's choir. \"Billboard\" deemed the track \"a transcultural re-interpretation\" of \"Cry Me a River.\" Halsey's song \"Without Me\" contains an interpolation of the pre-chorus of \"Cry Me a River\".\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" marked the first collaboration between Timberlake and Timbaland, and its critical and commercial success started \"one of the most forward-thinking star-producer duos in pop music\", as described by \"Variety\"s author Andrew Barker. Alternative rock band Coldplay revealed that the single was an inspiration for the drumbeat of their song \"Lost!\". Rock singer Marilyn Manson cited it as one of the main songs that influenced him. In order to use the song in the 2017 film \"Lady Bird\" set in 2003, director Greta Gerwig sent a letter to Timberlake, \"Your album \"Justified\" was that year, and it owned that year.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Justified\", Jive Records.\n"}
{"id": "49853533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49853533", "title": "Dinamulag Festival", "text": "Dinamulag Festival\n\nThe Dinamulag Festival also known as the Zambales Mango Festival is an annual festival held in the province of Zambales in the Philippines to celebrate or encourage bountiful harvest of the province's mangoes. The festival was first held in 1999.\n\nMangoes are a primary crop of the province of Zambales. Mangoes harvest in the town of Palauig are mostly exported to other provinces and Metro Manila. The festival is held to celebrate bountiful harvest of mangoes in the provinces.\n\nMangoes cultivated in Zambales particularly the \"Dinamulag\" variety of Carabao mangoes were cited as the world's sweetest mangoes by Guinness World Records in 1995 and the country's sweetest mangoes by the Department of Agriculture in 2013.\n\nIn 2015, other events unrelated to the province's mangoes such as sports events were introduced while the province's fruit remain the centerpiece of the festival.\n\nThe 18th Dinamulag Festival was held on APRIL 4-8,2017 at \"IBA PEOPLE'S PARK\" in Iba, Zambales.\n\nOne of the highlights of the said festival was the Street Dancing Competition, which The Masinloc Street Dancers won. They also have the most titles with 7 on the said event.\n\nSome of the guest of the said event are Senator Teofisto \"TG\" Guingona, Chicser Group among others. Also came to the said festival are some local officials of Zambales like Iba Mayor Rundstedt Ebdane, Botolan Mayor Bing Maniquiz, Candelaria Mayor Napoleon Edquid, Board Member Renato Collado, Board Member Sancho Abasta Jr.\n"}
{"id": "8882453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8882453", "title": "Docking (animal)", "text": "Docking (animal)\n\nDocking is the intentional removal of part of an animal's tail or, sometimes, ears. The term cropping is more commonly used in reference to the cropping of ears, while \"docking\" more commonly—but not exclusively—refers to the tail. The term tailing is also commonly used. The term arises because the living flesh of the tail, from which the animal's tail hairs grow, commonly is known as the dock.\n\nMany breeds of sheep have their tails docked to reduce the buildup of faeces which can encourage fly strike. Also used for this purpose is mulesing. Docking also makes it easier to view a grown ewe's udders to detect potential problems.\n\nWhile tail docking is an effective preventive method in some cases, if it is not carried out correctly it may result in other problems such as ill thrift or rectal prolapse. In lambs, tail docking at the distal end of the caudal folds tends to minimize docking effects on incidence of rectal prolapse. Docking at that length has been recommended by the American Veterinary Medical Association. In the UK the law states that for sheep docked tails should at a minimum cover the anus in male lambs, and the vulva in female lambs. These minimum lengths are also recommended in Canada\n\nDepending on the animal and the culture, docking may be done by cutting (knife or other blade), searing (gas or electrically heated searing iron), or constriction methods, i.e. rubber ring elastration. The Canadian Veterinary Medical Association indicates that pain, stress, recovery time and complications associated with docking of livestock will be minimized by docking when animals are under one week of age. However, docking of lambs within 24 hours of birth is not recommended, as it may interfere with ingestion of colostrum and/or formation of the maternal bond. In the UK the law requires that docking on sheep using constriction methods must be performed within the first week of the animal's life. The UK Farm Animal Welfare Council has noted that this limitation can be problematic in management of hill flocks where normal practice is to handle lambs as little as possible during the first week \"to avoid mis-mothering, mis-adventure and injury.\"\n\nAs with other domesticated animals there is a long history of docking the tails of dogs. It is understood to date at least to the Roman Empire. The most popular reason for docking dog breeds is to prevent injury to working dogs. In hunting dogs, the tail is docked to prevent it from getting cut up as the dog wags its tail in the brush. This is contested by a wide range of groups and is sometimes considered a form of animal cruelty. This has led to the practice being outlawed and made illegal throughout many countries, in some of which dogs are no longer bred for work, or used as working animals.\n\nFor example, in United Kingdom tail docking was originally undertaken largely by dog breeders. However, in 1991, the UK government amended the Veterinary Surgeons Act (1966), prohibiting the docking of dogs' tails by lay persons from 1 July 1993. Only veterinary surgeons were, by law, allowed to dock. However, following the passage of the law, the Council of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons in November 1992, ruled docking to be unethical, \"unless for therapeutic or acceptable prophylactic reasons\". The requirement in which the Royal College considers prophylactic docking to be acceptable are so strict as to make the routine docking of puppies by veterinary surgeons extremely difficult. Vets who continue to dock risk disciplinary action, and can be removed from the professional register. Those found guilty of unlawful docking would face a fine of up to £20,000, up to 51 weeks imprisonment or both. They can only dock the tail of \"working\" dogs (in some specific cases) - e.g. hunting dogs that work in areas thick in brambles and heavy vegetation where the dog's tail can get caught and cause injury to the dog. Docking was banned in England and Wales by the Animal Welfare Act 2006 and in Scotland by the Animal Health and Welfare (Scotland) Act 2006.\n\nIn 1987 the European Convention for the Protection of Pet Animals, established by Council of Europe, prohibited docking for non-medical reasons, though signatory countries are free to opt out of this provision, and almost half of them have done so. Norway completely banned the practice in 1987. Other countries where docking is banned include Australia and the United Kingdom.\n\nOriginally, most docking was done for practical purposes. For example, a draft horse used for hauling large loads might have had its tail docked to prevent it from becoming entangled in tow ropes, farm machinery, or harness; without docking, it could be dangerous to the horse, painful if the tail were tangled, and inconvenient to the owner to tie up the horse's tail for every use.\n\nIn modern use, the term usually does not refer to tail amputation as it does with some dog breeds. However, historically, docking was performed on some horses, often as foals. The practice has been banned in some nations, but is still seen on some show and working draft horses in some places, and is practiced at some PMU operations.\n\nIn modern times, the term \"docked\" or \"docking\" in reference to the tail of a horse generally refers to the practice of cutting the hair of the tail skirt very short, just past the end of the natural dock of the tail. In particular, the tail is often cut short to keep it from being tangled in a harness.\n\nTail docking of dairy cows is prevalent in some regions. Some anecdotal reports have suggested that such docking may reduce SCC (somatic cell counts in milk) and occurrence of mastitis. However, a study examining such issues found no significant effect of docking on SCC or mastitis frequency or on four measures of cow cleanliness. Although it has been suggested that leptospirosis among dairy farm workers might be reduced by docking cows' tails, a study found that milkers' leptospiral titers were not related to tail docking. The American Veterinary Medical Association opposes \"routine tail docking of cattle.\" Similarly, the Canadian Veterinary Medical Association opposes docking tails of dairy cattle.\n\nCattle on large Australian cattle stations often have the tail brush (not the dock) cut shorter (banged) before their release; this \"bang-tail muster\" indicates those having been counted, treated, their current pregnancy status determined, etc.\n\nTail docking in the dairy industry is prohibited in Denmark, Germany, Scotland, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and some Australian\nstates, as well as California, Ohio, and Rhode Island. Several large organizations within the dairy industry are against tail docking because of the lack of scientific evidence supporting claims benefiting the practice.\nScientific studies have demonstrated that there are numerous animal welfare issues with this practice (such as distress, pain, increased activity in pain receptors in the tail stump, abnormal growths of nerve fibers, sensitivity to heat and cold, and clostridial diseases). Fortunately, there is an effective and humane alternative to tail docking, which is switch trimming.\n\nIn the case of domestic pigs, where commercially raised animals are kept in close quarters, tail docking is performed to prevent injury or to prevent animals from chewing or biting each other's tails.\n\n"}
{"id": "56124941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56124941", "title": "Eifel Literature Festival", "text": "Eifel Literature Festival\n\nThe Eifel Literatur Festival () is a volunteer-organized literature event held in the Eifel mountains in the German state of Rhineland-Palatinate every two years as part of the state's \"Cultural Summer\".\n\nThe aim of the festival is to raise the Eifel onto the European literature stage. The festival originated from a private initiative by Germanic scholar, Dr. Josef Zierden. In 1994, he inaugurated the Eifel Literature Festival in the town of Prüm, in the small cashier's room of a bank, as an accompanying programme for the presentation of his book \"The Eifel in Literature\". \n\nUntil 2001, the focus was on belletristic literature from or about the Eifel. Later the literary programme was expanded: the Eifel was to become a literary stage for authors outside the Eifel, for example, for Martin Walser, Mario Adorf and Siegfried Lenz in 2001.\n\nHaving taken place for a week in the autumn, from 1994 to 1998, its duration was extended to readings from May to November.\n\nIn 2006, the 7th Eifel Literature Festival went beyond the boundaries of the county of Bitburg-Prüm and recorded over 10,000 visitors at about 20 readings in the neighbouring counties of Daun (today Vulkaneifel), Bernkastel-Wittlich, Ahrweiler and Mayen-Koblenz as well as Euskirchen and Mayen-Koblenz in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\nThe eighth festival in 2008 covered all ten counties of the Eifel - all the way to North Rhine-Westphalia. Authors were also be invited as guests in the German-speaking Community of Belgium. The 2008 festival ran from 25 April to 14 November.\n\nThe weekly programme included 30 events at 18 venues with authors and recitators, from Martin Walser to Iris Berben, from Senta Berger to Father Anselm Grün, from Petra Gerster to Dirk Sager, Urs Widmer and Ingo Schulze to Roger Willemsen.\n\nWith around 15,000 visitors at 28 events, the 9th Eifel Literature Festival in 2010 was the most successful in its history With about 1,100 visitors to the monastery church of Himmerod Abbey, Father Anselm Grün set the record for the number of visitors. For the first time a festival journal was published in spring and autumn 2010: with many interviews, photo documentaries and background information on past and upcoming events. The magazine \"buchjournal\" ranked the festival among the twelve most important literary events of 2010.\n\nIn 2008, the 1st International Eifel Literature Prize was awarded, with 15,000 euros for the first prize and 3,000 euros for the 'advancement award' (\"Förderpreis\"). The international character of the literature prize is intended to reflect the cross-border character of the festival. The jury (Martin Lüdke, head of SWR Literature, \"Literatur im Foyer\", chairman; Sigrid Löffler, \"Literaturen\"; and Volker Hage, \"Der Spiegel\"\") chose British writer Alison Louise Kennedy (Glasgow), one of the most important contemporary voices in Great Britain, for the main prize. She awarded the advancement prize to Wolfgang Herrndorf (Berlin).\n\n\nAuthors who have been guests at the Eifel Literature Festival include: Mario Adorf, Simon Beckett, Klaus Bednarz, Iris Berben, Senta Berger, Peter Bichsel, Norbert Blüm, Tom Buhrow & Sabine Stamer, Michael Degen, Friedrich Christian Delius, Joachim C. Fest, Arved Fuchs, Sigfrid Gauch, Heiner Geißler, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, Petra Gerster, Ralph Giordano, Dietrich Grönemeyer, Anselm Grün, Gisbert Haefs, Volker Hage, Ulla Hahn, Petra Hammesfahr, Elke Heidenreich, Judith Hermann, Wolfgang Herrndorf, Corinne Hofmann, Tommy Jaud, Margot Käßmann, Wladimir Kaminer, Daniel Kehlmann, Walter Kempowski, A.L. Kennedy, Imre Kertész, Bodo Kirchhoff, Pavel Kohout, Sibylle Knauss, Ursula Krechel, Sabine Kuegler, Günter Kunert, Sarah Kuttner, Benjamin Lebert, Wolfgang Leonhard, Günter Lamprecht, Siegfried Lenz, Erich Loest, Martin Lüdke, Roger Manderscheid, Margriet de Moor, Martin Mosebach, Herta Müller, Sten Nadolny, Leoluca Orlando, Hanns-Josef Ortheil, Christoph Peters, Fritz Pleitgen, Ulrich Plenzdorf, Erika Pluhar, Richard David Precht, Christoph Ransmayr, Katja Riemann, Harry Rowohlt, Peter Rühmkorf, David Safier, Rüdiger Safranski, Dirk Sager, Frank Schätzing, Rafik Schami, Maximilian Schell, Éric-Emmanuel Schmitt, Peter Scholl-Latour, Bernd Schroeder, Rainer Maria Schröder, Ingo Schulze, Alice Schwarzer, Arnold Stadler, Martin Suter, Leonie Swann, Uwe Timm, Günter Wallraff, Martin Walser, Christine Westermann, Urs Widmer, Roger Willemsen, Gabriele Wohmann and Juli Zeh.\n\n"}
{"id": "35045427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35045427", "title": "Eistnaflug", "text": "Eistnaflug\n\nEistnaflug is a metal festival in Iceland that has taken place annually since the summer of 2005. Eistnaflug is an indoor festival situated in Neskaupstaður, a quaint little town located on the Norðfjörður fjord on the Eastern coast of Iceland, 700 km away from Reykjavik\n\nIt started out as a small one day metal festival on 27 August 2005 but has since grown into a three-day festival where metal, hardcore, punk, rock and indie bands share the stage.\n\nEistnaflug is held annually on the second weekend of July each year. The peaceful village of Neskaupstaður has about 1.400 inhabitants, but on the second weekend of July that number doubles. We are proud that the people of Neskaupstaður welcome us each year and that there has never been any trouble with the festival guests.\n\nThe line up usually consists of 30-40 bands, most of which are Icelandic. Foreign bands that have performed at the festival are Tyrant (SE), Napalm Death (UK), Actress (DE), Triptykon (CHE), Secrets of the moon (DE), Hamferð (FRO), The Monolith Deathcult (NL) and Cephalic Carnage (US). Domestic bands that have often played the festival include Sólstafir, Momentum, Innvortis, Saktmóðigur, Severed Crotch, Gone Postal, Carpe Noctem, Celestine and many more.\n\nMusically, Eistnaflug is also a remarkable melting pot, with a few selected, prime foreign acts stacking up against a massive selection of all the great things the Iceland music scene has to offer every year. There are no boundaries – from indie rock to hardcore to black metal, everything that’s good is accepted and embraced at Eistnaflug. Having featured international talent such as Napalm Death, Secrets Of The Moon, Triptykon or Cephalic Carnage in previous editions, Eistnaflug 2013 offers Portland’s notorious rockers Red Fang, Denmark’s sludgy post-metallers The Psyke Project, Faroe Islands Wacken Metal Battle-winning doom sensation Hamferð and iconic German thrashers Contradiction as the respectable foreign contingent descending upon Neskaupstaður this year, and they will be stacked up against the cream of the Icelandic metal crop. \n"}
{"id": "41949526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41949526", "title": "Formula 1430", "text": "Formula 1430\n\nThe Formula 1430 was founded in 1971 as the Formula Nacional. It was a junior formula racing series based in Spain.\n\nSpanish car manufacturer SEAT launched the Formula Nacional in 1971. In the same era the Formula Ford (Great Britain), Formula Blue (France), Formula Vee (Germany) and Formula 850 (Italy) were launched. Many notable Spanish racing car constructed committed to the new found series. Hispakart, Selex and Lynx are a few manufacturers to commit to the series. The first race of the series was run on April 4th, 1971 at Circuito del Jarama. After a lengthy battle Selex driver Paco Josa won the championship over Lynx driver Emilio Zapico. The following years were dominated by the Selex ST 3. The ST 3 won all races between 1972 and 1976. The ST 7, launched in 1978, was less successful. Selex lost its dominance with the introduction of this new car. The ST 7 would win two championships 1980 and 1981. In 1980 the championship was won by Enrique Llobell. The following year the championship was won by Enriques brother Jose Luis Llobell. As of 1982 foreign built cars were allowed in the series. Selex completely pulled out of the championship due to disappointing results. With SEAT pulling slowly pulling out of the series, the championship lost its notability and folded after the 1984 season.\n\nThe Formula 1430 is an open chassis formula. Every manufacturer based in Spain is allowed to design and build a Formula 1430 car. The only engine allowed is the SEAT 1430 engine. The engines performance is raised to 75hp. The cars use a gearbox coming out of a SEAT 600 or SEAT 850. Constructors were allowed to build a monocoque or a spaceframe chassis. Aerodynamic aids like a diffuser and wings were not allowed. Domestic produced Firestone Torino tyres were the spec tyres for the series. The car had a minimum weight of approximately 420kg. \n\n"}
{"id": "50179143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50179143", "title": "International Drone Racing Association", "text": "International Drone Racing Association\n\nThe International Drone Racing Association, Inc. (IDRA) is a professional racing organization that sanctions and governs multiple drone racing events. IDRA's major events and series' include the 2017 Challengers Cup, 2016 World Drone Prix, 2016 North America Cup, 2016 GiGA World Masters, and the 2015 California Cup.\n\nJustin Haggerty founded the company on 3 April 2015 to promote and build drone racing into a world renown sport. Early that summer, Co-Founder Charles Zablan joined the team and began preparing for the 2015 California Cup. \n\nIDRA began working with the United Arab Emirates government and Aerial Grand Prix in October, 2015 to co-found and host the World Drone Prix in Dubai. The event, supported by Crown Prince Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktou, was held at Skydive Dubai on 11 & 12 March 2016 for $1 Million in cash prizes.\n\nOn 7 April 2016, IDRA announced its merger with RotorSports (Drone Nationals and Drone Worlds), which would consolidate operations under the IDRA brand.\n\nOn 13 April 2016, IDRA and ESPN announced signing a three-year deal to broadcast drone races.\n\nOn 22 June 2016, IDRA terminated its merger with RotorSports, no longer sanctioning the 2016 U.S. Drone Nationals and 2016 Drone Worlds. The decision was made in order to protect the company from foreseen financial risks associated with RotorSports and the ESPN contract. The decision was later confirmed as the right course of action after the 2016 U.S. Drone Nationals and 2016 Drone Worlds was executed under budget, leaving ESPN to cancel the Drone Worlds broadcast after a mediocre production from Drone Nationals.\n\nOn 22 June 2016, IDRA announced partnership with Vuzix and Amimon to implement and help develop high-definition (HD) video receivers and compatible virtual reality (VR) goggles to drone racing.\n\nOn 6-7 August 2016, IDRA co-hosted, with the Korean Drone Racing Association (KDRA), the GiGA World Masters in Busan, South Korea. The event, sponsored by Korea Telecom, was broadcast on national television and enjoyed 50,000 spectators in its two days. \n\nOn 21 September 2016, IDRA hosted a Congressional Briefing in Washington, D.C. to announce their founding of the UAS STEM Alliance, a non-profit organization to promote STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) via drone technology and drone racing.\nOn 11-13 November 2016, IDRA was the Blast Off Sponsor for the first annual Drone Summit at Spaceport America, which included a speaking workshop, drone cinematography challenge, and drone racing event. IDRA's Founder & CEO, Justin Haggerty, was the Keynote Speaker for the Drone Summit.\n\nOn 2 December 2016, IDRA announced its semi-professional series the 2017 Challengers Cup on social media platforms.\n\nOn 26 January 2017, IDRA announced its professional series the 2017 Drone Racing Series on social media platforms. The Drone Racing Series, composed of 6 international races, will start in China and end with a finals in the Netherlands.\n\nAdditionally, on 26 January 2017, IDRA launched the first primary liability insurance ($1 Million Policy) for drone pilots. IDRA Members will receive worldwide coverage to fly recreationally, for practicing and training, and racing! In conjunction, IDRA also will offer event liability insurance ($2 Million Policy) to sanctioned race organizers around the world. IDRA's insurance service is another attempt to strengthen the growing drone community. To build the new insurance business, IDRA partnered with Avion Insurance, an insurance broker in Florida.\n\nOn 10 February 2017, IDRA announced, on social media, its 3YR agreement to distribute race content from the Drone Racing Series and Challengers Cup on Amazon Prime Instant Video.\n\nOn 02 March 2017, IDRA announced, on social media, a partnership with Dailymotion to distribute race content from the Drone Racing Series and Challengers Cup.\n"}
{"id": "31689932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31689932", "title": "Kaycee Nicole", "text": "Kaycee Nicole\n\nKaycee Nicole, aka Kaycee Nicole Swenson, was a fictitious persona played by an American woman named Debbie Swenson (born Deborah Marie Dickman 1960), in an early case of Münchausen by Internet. Between 1999 and when the hoax was discovered in 2001, Swenson, playing the role of Kaycee, represented herself on numerous websites as a teenager suffering from terminal leukemia. Kaycee was reported to have died on May 14, 2001, and her death was publicized on May 16; shortly thereafter, members of the online communities that had supported her unraveled the story and discovered that Kaycee had never actually existed. Debbie Swenson confessed on her blog to the hoax on May 20, 2001.\n\nIn 1998, Debbie Swenson's real daughter, Kelli Burke (born Kelli Jo Swenson in 1985), who was in middle school at the time in Gracemont, Oklahoma, created the online persona of \"Kaycee Nicole\" with a group of her friends. The group created a webpage for the nonexistent girl and used photos of a high school basketball player from their town to represent her, but do not seem to have played the role of Kaycee beyond that or given her an active persona. That came when Debbie Swenson discovered what the girls had done and, rather than forcibly discontinue the hoax, she adopted the persona and began playing the role of Kaycee. In August 1999, the Swenson family moved from Oklahoma to Kansas.\n\nAfter it came into Debbie Swenson's possession, the Kaycee Nicole persona appeared on CollegeClub.com in 1999, as a \"sunny blonde\" teenaged basketball star in Kansas who shared thoughts and photos with others on the website. She made friends easily with both users and staff at the site, even volunteering to help with administrative work and sending gifts to CollegeClub employees. \"Kaycee\" was interviewed by telephone by \"The New York Times\" in 2000, under the name \"Kaycee Swenson\". She described herself in the resultant article as a high school senior who was taking college courses and planned to start college full-time the next year.\n\nIn 2000, Kaycee revealed to an online friend of hers, Randall van der Woning, that she suffered from leukemia, which was then in remission. Shortly afterward, she told him that the cancer was back. Sympathetic, Van der Woning offered to set up and host a blog for her to chronicle her struggles; Kaycee accepted the offer and the two created \"Living Colours\" in August 2000.\n\nKaycee's blog recounted, in sometimes vivid detail, her struggles with the disease, including multiple hospitalizations. The near-daily entries were presented as having been written by Kaycee or, in cases where she was too weak or ill, by her \"mother\", Debbie. She maintained an upbeat writing style despite her apparent hardships – her first entry said, \n\"I'm beginning a new exciting journey ... into my survival. I want to win! I'll fight to the\nfinish!\" and readers of her blog became devoted to the inspirational young girl. Readership of the blog became widespread, with millions of readers visiting the site in the two years it was active and many readers recommending the blog to their own social networks\n\nIn April 2001, it was revealed that Kaycee's liver was failing. Concerned about losing a \"friend\" without ever having met her, Van der Woning insisted that Kaycee allow him to visit her; Kaycee told him that he was welcome to visit, but not until after she returned from a trip she would be taking to see the ocean.\n\nHowever, before Van der Woning could make his trip to see Kaycee, he received a call on May 15, 2001, from Kaycee's mother. Sobbing, Debbie informed him that Kaycee had died, unexpectedly, of an aneurysm the day before. News of Kaycee's death was immediately posted on her blog:\n\nThank you for the love, the joy, the laughter and the tears. We shall love you always and forever. Kaycee Nicole passed away May 14, 2001, at the age of 19. \n\nReaders of the blog mourned Kaycee's death, many posting obituaries short and long on their own blogs, and news of her loss became widespread and much-discussed throughout the internet.\n\nAfter Kaycee's 'death', mourners who requested an address to send condolence gifts, cards, or flowers to were told that, despite previous acceptance of gifts by Kaycee, there was no longer a post-office box mailing address for her in Newton, Kansas. Debbie Swenson also informed Van der Woning when she told him of her death that there had already been a memorial service and Kaycee had been cremated.\n\nOn May 17, blogger Saundra Mitchell posted an entry to her blog mocking people who faked illnesses on the internet. Though she did not initially name Kaycee Nicole, the next day she published another commentary which did explicitly name her and suggested that in fact, Kaycee Nicole had never existed. She cited the nearly impossible haste with which Kaycee had been interred, noting that even if Kaycee had not been autopsied – which was dependent upon the manner of her death and whether there was a doctor attending – the two days that Debbie claimed that gathering of mourners, memorial service, and cremation had been accomplished in was unlikely; Mitchell also noted a number of inconsistencies in the backstory about Kaycee's cancer. Mitchell, working off Kaycee's \"internet address\", traced the girl's location to Peabody, Kansas. She called around the town, asking if anyone knew of someone of Kaycee's description who had died recently. No one did.\n\nOn May 18, a user on the weblog Metafilter posted a thread entitled \"Is it possible that Kaycee did not exist?\", which posited, largely on the basis of Saundra Mitchell's writings, that Kaycee Nicole might have been a hoax. Commenters in the often-heated thread (even the creator of the thread stated that \"I mean, I want it NOT to be true. I hate the thought that a bunch of people are grieving over somebody who did not existi!\" ) made a number of observations about the story of Kaycee, among them that no one had ever met Kaycee in person – not even the internet denizens who had been closest to her – and that no obituary was available in a newspaper, anywhere, for a 19-year-old girl named Kaycee Nicole.\n\nAs the Metafilter thread progressed, users discovered that Kaycee's CollegeClub account was tied to the CollegeClub account of Debbie Swenson's teenaged daughter and that records showed that someone had logged into Kaycee's account days after she was supposed to have died. A user investigated the photographs that Kaycee had shared on her blog, identified a school mascot pictured, and traced it back to a particular high school, then traced the jersey number that \"Kaycee\" was wearing to an actual player. Investigation of the player showed that the only connection she had to Kaycee Nicole was that her family had once been acquainted with the Swenson family; she was not ill, was not named Kaycee Nicole, and not aware that her photo was being used by someone else.\n\nOn May 19, Debbie Swenson placed a call to her biggest supporter, Randall van der Woning. She told him that Kaycee had not actually been her own child, but rather a foster daughter. She requested that he keep Kaycee's identity secret. Van der Woning did as requested and kept the information to himself; however, this had the side effect of allowing the Metafilter investigation to continue. As more and more evidence mounted that the story of Kaycee had been cobbled together using misdirection and borrowed facts, Swenson emailed the truth to him, and he, in turn, posted it to the \"In Living Colours\" blog on May 20: Kaycee Nicole had never existed. \"I didn't know the reactions would be so strong\", Swenson said. \"I knew it was wrong and every day it ate at me and I couldn't take it.\" She now claimed that Kaycee was a composite of three people she had known with cancer, none of whom were her daughter.\n\nInternet anger at the hoax was swift, with Van der Woning and many other supporters disclaiming Kaycee and Debbie Swenson. The local police in Peabody, Kansas, were notified and soon handed off the case to the FBI as a possible fraud. The FBI declined to further investigate after its initial acceptance of the case, stating that it had not been able to find evidence that Debbie Swenson's accepting of gifts for \"Kaycee\" constituted a dollar amount above their threshold for financial crimes.\n\nSwenson was apologetic for the hoax but said that she believed the Kaycee character had also done some good. \"A lot of people have problems,\" she told \"The New York Times\". \"I know I helped a lot of people in a lot of different ways.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9941231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9941231", "title": "List of Neo-Pagan festivals and events", "text": "List of Neo-Pagan festivals and events\n\nThis is a list of events designed for, or largely attended by, members of Neopagan religions.\nWitches Full Moon Rituals and Party\n\nPagan Global Event links Litha, Summer Solstice, Kupala\n\n\nFriendly Pagans National Pagan Calendar of Events \n"}
{"id": "5671648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5671648", "title": "List of causes of death by rate", "text": "List of causes of death by rate\n\nThe following is a list of the causes of human deaths worldwide for the year 2002, arranged by their associated mortality rates. There were 57,029,000 deaths tabulated for that year. Some causes listed include deaths also included in more specific subordinate causes (as indicated by the \"Group\" column), and some causes are omitted, so the percentages do not sum to 100. According to the World Health Organization, about 58 million people died in 2005, using the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD). According to the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, 52.77 million people died in 2010.\n\nThe table below uses data from 2002 and is out of date. Data is now available for 2010.\n\n\"Note: Tinted backgrounds indicate items that also appear in the subsequent table. Percentage figures add to more than 100% because some deaths appear in both broadly-defined and narrowly defined categories; for example, Cardiovascular Deaths includes deaths from both Ischaemic Heart Disease and Stroke.\"\n\nMalnutrition can be identified as an underlying cause for shortened life. 70% of childhood deaths (age 0-4) are reportedly due to diarrheal illness, acute respiratory infection, malaria and immunizable disease. However, of these childhood deaths, 56% can be attributed to the effects of malnutrition as an underlying cause.\nThe effects of malnutrition include increased susceptibility to infection, musculature wasting, skeletal deformities and neurologic development delays. According to the World Health Organization, malnutrition is named as the biggest contributor to child mortality with 36 million deaths in 2005 related to malnutrition.\n\nTop causes of death, according to the World Health Organization report for the calendar year 2001:\n\nWith an average of 123.6 deaths per 100,000 from 2003 through 2010 the most dangerous occupation in the United States is the cell tower construction industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "3668235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3668235", "title": "List of songs recorded by Zecchino d'Oro", "text": "List of songs recorded by Zecchino d'Oro\n\nThe Zecchino d'Oro International Festival of Children's Song has been held every year since 1959, first as a national (Italian) event, and after 1976 as an international one. The 1964 songs were recorded for an LP titled \"The Little Dancing Chicken,\" (an English translation of \"Il Pulcino Ballerino,\" the award-winning song that year). The LP was released in the United States.\n\nColours: / \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22615157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22615157", "title": "List of structural failures and collapses", "text": "List of structural failures and collapses\n\nThis is a list of structural failures and collapses, including some aircraft, bridges, dams, and radio masts/towers.\n\n"}
{"id": "16381804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16381804", "title": "Ljubljana Opera House", "text": "Ljubljana Opera House\n\nThe Ljubljana Opera House (, or ) is an opera house in Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia. The seat of the national opera and ballet company, the Ljubljana Slovene National Theatre Opera and Ballet, it serves as the national opera building of the country. It stands at 1 Župančič Street () between the Slovenian Parliament building, on one hand, and the National Museum and the National Gallery, on the other hand.\n\nThe building was originally named the Provincial Theatre () and was built between 1890 and 1892 in the Neo-Renaissance style by the Czech architects Jan Vladimír Hráský and Anton Hruby. Before the construction of the German Theatre (the present Ljubljana National Drama Theatre (SNG) at 1 Erjavec Street) in 1911, the building served as a venue for productions in both Slovene and German, and afterwards only in Slovene.\n\nThe facade of the Opera House has Ionic columns supporting a pediment with a tympanum above the entrance and has two niches at the side adorned with allegorical statues of Tragedy and Comedy by the sculptor (1859–1935). \n"}
{"id": "11231759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11231759", "title": "Michelin Pilot Challenge", "text": "Michelin Pilot Challenge\n\nThe Michelin Pilot Challenge is a grand touring and touring car racing series run by the International Motor Sports Association. Originating from the Canadian Motorola Cup, the series was taken over by Grand-Am in 2001 to become the Grand-Am Cup following the demise of rival IMSA's Firehawk series of similar rules in the US. KONI became series sponsor for the start of the 2007 season when the series became known as the KONI Challenge Series, before renaming once more prior to the start of the 2009 season as the KONI Sports Car Challenge. The series name was once again changed for the 2010 season to Continental Tire Sports Car Challenge. In 2019, the series rebranded again after Michelin was selected to become the new official tire supplier of the series.\n\nThe Continental Challenge was the support series for Grand-Am's premier offering, the Rolex Sports Car Series. In 2014, the series became the support series for the United SportsCar Championship upon the merger of the Rolex Series and the American Le Mans Series. The series was renamed the IMSA Continental Tire Sports Car Challenge.\nIn traditional sports car racing format, the races are often run with both GS and ST classes on track simultaneously, which is known as a \"combined\" race. Occasionally the races will be run in \"split classes\", with separate races for both classes. This is especially common for shorter venues such as Lime Rock Park. Currently the races are 2 hours 30 minutes in length with a required driver change.\n\n\nThe series uses two classes in each race:\n\n\nAll vehicles have fewer modifications than most series, using a \"showroom stock\" format.\n\nThe format is reminiscent of the original Trans-Am Series, combining conventional sports cars and touring cars, though the Trans-Am Series usually had a single driver per car, unlike the Continental Challenge, which has two drivers per car. Some vehicles in the Continental Challenge have actually been painted to resemble the original Trans Am cars, such as the Boss 302 Mustangs of George Follmer and Parnelli Jones or the original Sunoco Camaro. Several vehicles in ST have also competed in the SCCA's Pirelli World Challenge touring car class.\n"}
{"id": "25245790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25245790", "title": "Motives for the September 11 attacks", "text": "Motives for the September 11 attacks\n\nThe September 11, 2001, attacks in the northeast United States were an organized terrorist act carried out by 19 hijackers, and organized by numerous members of al-Qaeda. Motives for the attacks were stated before and after the attacks in several sources, Osama bin Laden's declaration of a holy war against the United States, and a fatwā signed by bin Laden and others for the killing of Americans in 1998, are seen by investigators as evidence of his motivation. However, in an interview with Daily Ummat, Osama bin Laden rejected Al-Qaeda's involvement in the September 11 attacks.\n\nIn Osama Bin Laden's November 2002 \"Letter to America\", he explicitly stated that al-Qaeda's motives for their attacks include: Western support for attacking Muslims in Somalia, supporting Russian atrocities against Muslims in Chechnya, supporting the Indian oppression against Muslims in Kashmir, the Jewish aggression against Muslims in Lebanon, the presence of US troops in Saudi Arabia, US support of Israel, and sanctions against Iraq.\n\nIn the aftermath of 9/11, public discussion of the causes of terrorism was largely curtailed, which some commentators claimed was an effort to excuse and justify the killing of innocent civilians. Catchphrases – that terrorists were motivated by a hatred of freedom or by a fanaticism inherent to Islam – were prevalent. Arun Kundnani describes the atmosphere as one where \"terrorism became an ‘evil ideology’ that did not require further analysis.\" By 2004 however, the taboo was broken and it was only through the notion of \"radicalization\" that a discussion on the causes became possible again.\n\nBefore the attacks, Al-Qaeda issued proclamations that provide insight into the motivations for the attacks: one was the \"fatwā\" of August 1996, and a second was a shorter fatwa in February 1998. Both documents appeared initially in the Arabic-language London newspaper \"Al-Quds Al-Arabi\". Three years before the September 11 attacks, Al-Qaeda released a Fatwa, stating \"We -- with God's help -- call on every Muslim who believes in God and wishes to be rewarded to comply with God's order to kill the Americans and plunder their money wherever and whenever they find it. We also call on Muslim ulema, leaders, youths, and soldiers to launch the raid on Satan's U.S. troops and the devil's supporters allying with them, and to displace those who are behind them so that they may learn a lesson.\" The Fatwa also complains against the presence of the US in Saudi Arabia and support for Israel. After the attacks, bin Laden and al-Zawahiri have published dozens of video tapes and audio tapes, many describing the motivations for the attacks. Two particularly important publications were bin Laden's 2002 \"Letter to America\", and a 2004 video tape by bin Laden. In addition to direct pronouncements by bin Laden and Al-Qaeda, numerous political analysts have postulated motivations for the attacks.\n\nIn his November 2002 \"Letter to America\", Bin Laden described the United States' support of Israel as a motivation:\n\nThe expansion of Israel is one of the greatest crimes, and you are the leaders of its criminals. And of course there is no need to explain and prove the degree of American support for Israel. The creation of Israel is a crime which must be erased. Each and every person whose hands have become polluted in the contribution towards this crime must pay its price, and pay for it heavily.\n\nIn 2004 and 2010, Bin Laden again repeated the connection between the September 11 attacks and the support of Israel by the United States. Support of Israel was also mentioned before the attack in the 1998 Al-Qaeda fatwa:\n\n[T]he aim [of the United States] is also to serve the Jews' petty state and divert attention from its occupation of Jerusalem and murder of Muslims there. The best proof of this is their eagerness to destroy Iraq, the strongest neighboring Arab state, and their endeavor to fragment all the states of the region such as Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and Sudan into paper statelets and through their disunion and weakness to guarantee Israel's survival and the continuation of the brutal crusade occupation of the Peninsula.\n\nIn the above mentioned 2002 \"Letter To America\", Bin Laden laments the immoral behavior that has become the norm in the United States as a motivating factor in his decision to launch the attacks:\n\nThe second thing we call you to, is to stop your oppression, lies, immorality and debauchery that has spread among you. (a) We call you to be a people of manners, principles, honour, and purity; to reject the immoral acts of fornication, homosexuality, intoxicants, gambling's, and trading with interest.\n\nOn 6 August 1990, after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 661, which imposed economic sanctions on Iraq, providing for a full trade embargo, excluding medical supplies, food, and other items of humanitarian necessity (these to be determined by the Security Council sanctions committee). After the end of the Gulf War and after the Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait, the sanctions were linked to removal of weapons of mass destruction by Resolution 687.\n\nIn the 1998 fatwa, Al Qaeda identified the Iraq sanctions as a reason to kill Americans:\n\ndespite the great devastation inflicted on the Iraqi people by the crusader-Zionist alliance, and despite the huge number of those killed, which has exceeded 1 million... despite all this, the Americans are once against trying to repeat the horrific massacres, as though they are not content with the protracted blockade imposed after the ferocious war or the fragmentation and devastation...On that basis, and in compliance with Allah's order, we issue the following fatwa to all Muslims: The ruling to kill the Americans and their allies—civilians and military—is an individual duty for every Muslim...\n\nIn the 2004 Osama bin Laden video, Osama calls the sanctions \"the greatest mass slaughter of children mankind has ever known\".\n\nAfter the 1991 Gulf war, the US maintained a presence of 5,000 troops stationed in Saudi Arabia. One of the responsibilities of that force was Operation Southern Watch, which enforced the no-fly zones over southern Iraq set up after 1991, and the country's oil exports through the shipping lanes of the Persian Gulf are protected by the US Fifth Fleet, based in Bahrain.\n\nSince Saudi Arabia houses the holiest sites in Islam (Mecca and Medina), many Muslims were upset at the permanent military presence.\nThe continued presence of US troops after the Gulf War in Saudi Arabia was one of the stated motivations behind the September 11th attacks and the Khobar Towers bombing. Further, the date chosen for the 1998 United States embassy bombings (August 7) was eight years to the day that American troops were sent to Saudi Arabia. Bin Laden interpreted Muhammad as banning the \"permanent presence of infidels in Arabia\".\n\nIn 1996, Bin Laden issued a fatwa calling for American troops to get out of Saudi Arabia. In the 1998 fatwa, Al-Qaeda wrote: \"for over seven years the United States has been occupying the lands of Islam in the holiest of places, the Arabian Peninsula, plundering its riches, dictating to its rulers, humiliating its people, terrorizing its neighbors, and turning its bases in the Peninsula into a spearhead through which to fight the neighboring Muslim peoples.\" In the December 1999 interview with Rahimullah Yusufzai, bin Laden said he felt that Americans were \"too near to Mecca\" and considered this a provocation to the entire Muslim world.\n\nPolitical analysts have inferred some motives for the attacks that were not explicitly stated by Al-Qaeda, such as globalization and a desire to provoke the United States.\n\nElliot Neaman stated that the connections Walt and Mearsheimer and others, including many German intellectuals, make between 9/11 and Israel are ahistorical. He argues that the Palestinians themselves have often pointed to their betrayal by one Arab leader after another since the founding of the state of Israel, and further that bin Laden is no exception, as he never showed any concern for the Palestinian cause until he came under the influence of Ayman Al-Zawahir and decided to use the Palestinians as a means to gain the favor of militant Muslims. Al-Qaeda and Hamas continue to have a fraught relationship, and have been argued to have different goals in regard to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.\n\nDaniel Benjamin and Steven Simon, in their book, \"The Age of Sacred Terror\", argue that 9/11 terrorist attacks are purely religious. They are seen as \"a sacrament ... intended to restore to the universe a moral order that had been corrupted by the enemies of Islam.\" It is neither political or strategic but an \"act of redemption\" meant to \"humiliate and slaughter those who defied the hegemony of God.\"\n\nBernard Lewis is the best-known exponent of the idea of the \"humiliation\" of the Islamic world through globalization. In the 2004 book \"\", he argues animosity toward the West is best understood with the decline of the once powerful Ottoman Empire, compounded by the import of western ideas, as seen in Arab socialism, Arab liberalism and Arab secularism.\n\nDuring the past three centuries, the Islamic world has lost its dominance and its leadership, and has fallen behind both the modern West and the rapidly modernizing Orient. This widening gap poses increasingly acute problems, both practical and emotional, for which the rulers, thinkers, and rebels of Islam have not yet found effective answers.\n\nIn an essay titled \"The spirit of terrorism\", Jean Baudrillard described 9/11 as the first global event that \"questions the very process of globalization\".\n\nSome Middle East scholars—such as Michael Scott Doran and Peter Bergen—have argued that 9/11 was a strategic way to provoke America into a war that incites a pan-Islamist revolution. Doran argued that the attacks are best understood as being part of a religious conflict within the Muslim world. In an essay, Doran argued that Bin Laden's followers \"consider themselves an island of true believers surrounded by a sea of iniquity\". Doran further argued that bin Laden hoped that US retaliation would unite the faithful against the West, sparking revolutions in Arab nations and elsewhere, and that the Osama bin Laden videos were attempting to provoke a visceral reaction in the Middle East aimed at a violent reaction by Muslim citizens to increased US involvement in their region.\n\nBergen argued that the attacks were part of a plan to cause the United States to increase its military and cultural presence in the Middle East, thereby forcing Muslims to confront the idea of a non-Muslim government and establish conservative Islamic governments in the region.\n\nRobert Pape identified 315 incidents, all but 14 of which they classified as part of 18 different campaigns. These 18 shared two elements and all but one shared a third: 1) A foreign occupation; 2) by a democracy; 3) of a different religion. Mia Bloom interviewed relatives and acquaintances of suicide terrorists. Her conclusions largely support Pape's, suggesting that it is much more difficult to get people to volunteer for a suicide mission without such a foreign occupation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44278569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44278569", "title": "Museum Night (Flanders and the Netherlands)", "text": "Museum Night (Flanders and the Netherlands)\n\nMuseum Night () is an annual event in several cities in Flanders and the Netherlands. Museums will collaborate and people will be able to buy one ticket to access all the participating museums in a particular city.\n\nOne of the most popular events is Museum Night in Amsterdam , but other events are also held in cities like Almere, Antwerp, Breda, Brussels, The Hague, Delft, Ghent, Leiden, Ostend, Roermond, Rotterdam, Utrecht and many more.\n\nThe participating Amsterdam museums are yearly opened on the first Saturday of November from 7 pm until 2 am the next day. Besides the normal exhibitions in museums, activities are arranged, like artist performances and free guides. In some events, public transport can be freely used for people who bought a ticket.\n"}
{"id": "30238780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30238780", "title": "Musica Toscana", "text": "Musica Toscana\n\nMusica Toscana, Inc., was a nonprofit cultural, educational, and musicological organization located in Louisville, Kentucky, that promoted the musical heritage of the Tuscan region of Italy. It was founded in 1999 under the leadership of the musicologist Robert L. Weaver, a retired faculty member of the University of Louisville. Musica Toscana was headed by Margaret M. Guarnieri after 2007. As of 2012, the organization ceased operations. It maintained a reciprocal membership with the period instrument ensemble Auser Musici of Pisa, Italy.\n\nOne of the principal reasons for the creation of Musica Toscana was the acquisition in 1984 of the private music library of the Italian Ricasoli family by the Dwight Anderson Music Library of the University of Louisville. At the time, the Ricasoli collection was one of the largest private collections of eighteenth-century music remaining in the world. The collection originated with Baron Pietro Leopoldo Ricasoli in Florence and was once in the possession of Baron Bettino Ricasoli, a founding father of the modern Italian state and one of its first prime ministers.\n\nThe principal goal of Musica Toscana was to promote music written in Tuscany, performed in Tuscany, or written by Tuscan composers active outside of Tuscany that originated from the period 1590-1850, an era of political, culture, and economic decline in the region, but one of continued musical importance that saw the birth of opera in the 1590s and the invention of the piano a century later.\n\nMusica Toscana oversaw the publication of a series of scholarly and performing editions, the \"Monuments of Tuscan Music\", and sponsored concerts and lectures devoted to its repertory of interest, sometimes in collaboration with Bourbon Baroque. Only four of many planned volumes of the \"Monuments of Tuscan Music\" series appeared before the dissolution of the organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16085113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16085113", "title": "Naše novine", "text": "Naše novine\n\nNaše novine was a bi-monthly magazine from Subotica in Bačka. The magazine was being published during Austro-Hungarian administration, from 1907 to 1918.\n\n\"Naše novine\" was the official organ of Land's Christian Socialist Party (Zemaljska kršćansko-socijalna stranka). The magazine dealt with political, economical and social topics. It was printed in Croatian language.\n\nThe first edition was published on 4 December 1907. From 1908 the magazine was printed weekly. In 1918 the magazine ended publication.\n\nThe editors were Blaško Rajić, Josip Mamužić, Matija Čatalinac, Ivan Petreš Čudomil, Bela Mesaroš and Stipan Subotički.\n"}
{"id": "6531844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6531844", "title": "Origins of the Sri Lankan civil war", "text": "Origins of the Sri Lankan civil war\n\nThe origins of the Sri Lankan Civil War lie in the continuous political rancor between the majority Sinhalese and the minority Sri Lankan Tamils. Before and during the early part of colonial rule by Europeans, Sri Lanka was under the rule of three separate kingdoms. War and peace was a status quo between nations, unlike the present status quo of war crimes and terrorism between majorities and minorities. During the colonial rule by Portuguese and then the Dutch, the three sovereign states were ruled as separate entities. The final British colonial rule amalgamated the entire island into a single administrative entity after independence the minorities were handed over to the mercy of the majority who were warring parties before the period of the European colonisation. According to Jonathan Spencer, a social anthropologist from the School of Social and Political Studies of the University of Edinburgh, the war is an outcome of how modern ethnic identities have been made and re-made since the colonial period, with the political struggle between minority Tamils and the Sinhala-dominant government accompanied by rhetorical wars over archeological sites and place name etymologies, and the political use of the national past.\n\nA primary contributor to the development of political awareness amongst Tamils during the European colonial rule was the advent of Protestant missionaries on a large scale from 1814. Missionary activities by missionaries of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Methodists and Anglican churches led to a revival amongst Hindu Tamils who built their own schools, temples, societies and published literature to counter the missionary activities. The success of this effort led the Tamils to think confidently of themselves as a community and prepared the way for self-consciousness as a cultural, religious and linguisitic community in the mid-19th century.\n\nGreat Britain, which had come to control the whole of the island in 1815, instituted a legislative council in 1833 with three Europeans and one each for Sinhalese, Sri Lankan Tamils and Burghers. This council's primary requirement was to play an advisory role to the Governor. These positions eventually came to be elected. From the introduction of the advisory council to the Donoughmore Commission in 1931 until the Soulbury Commission in 1947, the main dispute between the Sinhalese and Tamils elites was over the question of representation and not on the structure of the government. The issue of power sharing was used by the nationalists of both communities to create an escalating inter-ethnic rivalry which has continually gained momentum ever since.\n\nThere was initially little tension amongst Sri Lanka's two largest ethnic groups, the Sinhalese and the Tamils, when Ponnambalam Arunachalam, a Tamil, was appointed representative of the Sinhalese as well the Tamils in the national legislative council. However, the British Governor William Manning actively encouraged the concept of \"communal representation\" and created the Colombo seat which alternated between the Tamils and the Sinhalese. Subsequently, the Donoughmore Commission strongly rejected communal representation, and brought in universal franchise. The decision was strongly opposed by the Tamil political leadership, who realized that they would be reduced to a minority in parliament, according to the proportion of the population they make up. G. G. Ponnambalam, a leader of the Tamil community, proposed to the Soulbury Commission that there should be 50–50 representation (50% for the Sinhalese, 50% for \"all\" other ethnic groups, including Tamils) in the proposed independent Ceylon – a proposal that was rejected. The Second World War served as an interregnum where the adroit politics of D. S. Senanayake successfully balancing the polarising tendencies of the Sinhala as well as Tamil nationalists.\nFollowing independence in 1948, G. G. Ponnambalam and the party he founded, the All Ceylon Tamil Congress (Tamil Congress), joined D. S. Senanayake's moderate, Western-oriented, United National Party Government. This Government pass the Ceylon Citizenship Act of 1948, which denied citizenship to Sri Lankans of Indian origin and resulted in Sri Lanka becoming a majoritanian state. Sri Lanka's government represented only the majority community, the Sinhalese community, and had marginalized the minorities, causing a \"severe degree of alienation\" among the minority communities. When this Act was passed, the Tamil Congress was strongly criticized by the opposition Marxist groups and the newly formed Sri Lankan Tamil nationalist Federal Party (FP). S. J. V. Chelvanayakam, the leader of this new party, contested the citizenship act before the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka, and then in the Privy council in England, on grounds of discrimination towards minorities, but he did not prevail in overturning it. The FP took two seats in the 1952 election, against the Tamil Congress' four, but in the 1956 election it became the dominant party in the Tamil districts and remained so for two decades. The FP's came to be known for its uncompromising stand on Tamil rights. In response to the parliamentary act that made Sinhala the sole official language in 1956, Federal MPs staged a non violent sit in (\"satyagraha\") protest, but it was broken up by a nationalist mob. The police and other state authorities present at the location failed to take action to stop the violence. The FP was cast as scapegoats and were briefly banned after the 1958 riots in which many were killed and thousands of Tamils forced to flee their homes.\n\nAnother point of conflict between the communities was state sponsored colonization schemes that had the effect of changing the demographic balance in the Eastern province in favor of majority Sinhalese that the Tamil nationalists considered to be their traditional homeland. It has been perhaps the most immediate cause of inter-communal violence.\n\nIn the 1970s importing Tamil-language films, books, magazines, journals, etc. from the cultural hub of Tamil Nadu, India was banned. Sri Lanka also banned local groups affiliated with groups such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Tamil Youth League. Foreign exchange for the long established practice of Tamil students going to India for university education was stopped. Equally, examinations for external degrees from the University of London were abolished. This had the effect of culturally cutting off the links between Tamil Sri Lankans and Tamils from India. The then government insisted that these measures were part of a general program of economic self-sufficiency as part of its socialist agenda and not targeted against the Tamil minority.\n\nIn 1973 the policy of standardization was implemented by the Sri Lankan government to what they believed was to rectify disparities created in university enrollment in Sri Lanka under British colonial rule. It was in essence an affirmative action scheme to assist geographically disadvantaged students to gain tertiary education. The resultant benefits enjoyed by Sinhalese students also meant a significant fall in the number of Tamil students within the Sri Lankan university student populace.\n\nIn 1973, the Federal Party decided to demand for a separate state. To further their nationalistic cause they merged with the other Tamil political parties to become the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) in 1975. On 1976, after the first National convention of the Tamil United Liberation Front, the Ceylon Tamils moved towards a morphed nationalism which meant that they were now unwilling to live within a confined single island entity. Chelvanayakam and the Federal Party had always campaigned for a unitary country and thought that partitioning of the country would be “suicidal” up until 1973. However policies by the various governments that was considered to be discriminatory by Tamil leadership modified the stand to Tamil Nationalism.\n\nSince 1948 when Sri Lanka became independent, successive governments have adopted policies that had the effect of net preference to the majority Sinhalese at the expense of the minority Sri Lankan Tamils. The governments adopted these policies in order to assist the Sinhalese community in such areas as education and public employment. But these policies severely curtailed the middle class Tamil youth, who found it more difficult during the 1970s and 1980s to enter a university or secure employment. These individuals belonging to this younger generation, often referred to by other Tamils as \"the boys\" (\"Podiyan\" in Tamil language) formed many militant organizations. The most important contributor to the strength of the militant groups was the Black July pogrom which was perceived have been an organized event in which over 1000 Sri Lankan Tamil civilians were killed prompting many youth to prefer the armed path of resistance.\n\nBy the end of 1987, they had fought not only the Sri Lankan security forces but also the Indian Peace Keeping Force. They also fought among each other, as well, with equal if not greater brutality. The main group: Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), a rebel group, decimated most of the others. They represented intergenerational tensions as well as caste and ideological differences. Except the LTTE, many of the remaining organizations have morphed into minor political parties within the Tamil National Alliance or as standalone political parties. Some also function as paramilitary groups within the Sri Lankan military.\n\nThere is a sizable population of Tamils in the Central Province, plantation laborers brought down from India by the British colonial authorities in the 19th and 20th centuries. These Indian Tamils (or Estate Tamils), as they are called, still work mainly in Sri Lanka’s tea plantations. They have been locked in poverty for generations and continue to experience poor living conditions. Although they speak dialects of the same language, they are usually considered a separate community from the Sri Lankan Tamils of the North and East.\n\nThe government of D.S. Senanayake passed legislation stripping the estate Tamils of their citizenship in 1949, leaving them stateless.\n\nThe effect was to tilt the island's political balance away from the Tamils. In 1948, at independence, the Tamils had 33% of the voting power in Parliament.. Upon the disenfranchisement of the estate Tamils, however, this proportion dropped to 20%. The Sinhalese could and did obtain more than a 2/3 majority in Parliament, making it impossible for Tamils to exercise an effective opposition to Sinhalese policies affecting them. The main reason for the imbalance was that several multi-member constituencies elected a Tamil member of Parliament in a majority Sinhala electorate. The idea in having multi-member constituencies was to prevent domination of minorities by a future nationalist government.\n\nNot content with stripping their citizenship, successive governments tried to remove the estate Tamils from the country entirely. In 1964, Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike signed an agreement with Indian Prime Minister L.B. Shastri. A second agreement was signed three years later with Indira Gandhi. These provided that 600,000 of the estate Tamils would be expelled and sent to India over a 15-year period, and 375,000 would be restored their Sri Lankan citizenship. Not all of the former group actually returned to India, and remained in Sri Lanka without the ability to vote, travel abroad, or participate fully in Sri Lankan life. It was not until 2003 that full citizenship rights were restored to the remaining Tamils in the hill country.\n\nThe detailed reports of the Kandyan Peasantry commission (1947), the Buddhist commission (1956), as well as statistics of preponderant admissions of Tamil speaking students to the university provided a basis for these Sinhala activists who ensured S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike won a landslide victory in 1956, campaigning on a strong Sinhala nationalist platform.\n\nEthnic conflict was aggravated by the Sinhala Official Language Act of 1956. General consensus existed that English should be replaced as the country's official language. In the Act, the Sri Lankan government replaced English with Sinhala which deprived the Tamils of their right to deal with government institutions in their language as well as limited their opportunity to join government service. By 1956 approximately 75% of the population maintained fluency in the Sinhala language, approximately 15% were proficient in Tamil and the remaining ethnic groups spoke mainly English including the Burghers and Muslims. Multi-linguism was not common-spread, although many Sri Lankans had knowledge of at least two of the three main languages.\n\nThe Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) government led by Solomon Bandaranaike was sworn into office on a platform that of helping the growing population of unemployed youth who were disenfranchised by the Sinhala Official Language policy. A majority of civil servants under colonial rule were Tamil whose positions benefited from free English-medium missionary schools in the north and east of the island. The Tamil Federal Party led a group of Tamil volunteers and staged a sit-down \"satyagraha\" (peaceful protest).\n\nThe Sinhala Official Language policy was gradually weakened by all subsequent governments and in 1987 Tamil was made an official language of Sri Lanka, alongside Sinhala. English has remained the de facto language of governance; government activity continues to be carried out in English, including the drafting of legislation.\n\nIn the 1958 riots, 150–200 Tamils were killed, thousands more were assaulted and Tamil property looted. Over 25,000 Tamil refugees were relocated to the North.\n\nImporting Tamil-language films, books, magazines, journals, etc. from the cultural hub of Tamil Nadu, India was banned. Sri Lanka also banned groups such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Tamil Youth League. Culturally, Tamil Sri Lankans were cut off from Tamil Nadu. Foreign exchange for the long established practice of Tamil students going to India for university education was stopped. Equally, examinations for external degrees from the University of London were abolished. The government insisted this was a part of a general program of economic self-sufficiency, part of its socialist agenda, however most of the Tamil population did not accept nor believe this.\n\nThe banning of Tamil language media importation by the government of Sri Lanka in 1970 was perceived by some minority Sri Lankan Tamil politicians as directed against their cultural survival. Importing Tamil language films, books, magazines, journals from Tamil Nadu, India were banned.\n\nSri Lanka also proscribed the local branch of DMK and the Tamil Youth League. Culturally, the minority Sri Lankan Tamil people felt cut off from Tamil Nadu. But some argue that it led to native Sri Lankan Tamil literature and media to thrive without competition from India.\n\nDuring the 1970s university admissions were standardized. This initiative took place to rectify disparities created in university enrollment during colonial rule.\n\nUnder the British, English was the state language and consequently greatly benefited English speakers. However, the majority of the Sri Lankan populace lived outside urban areas and did not belong to the social elite, and therefore did not enjoy the benefits of English-medium education. The issue was compounded further by the fact that in northern and eastern regions of the island, where a largely Tamil speaking populace resided, students had access to English-medium education through missionary schools regardless of their socio-economic status. This created a situation where the large proportion of students enrolled in universities were English speaking Tamils, particularly in professional courses such as medicine and engineering.\n\nThe government policy of standardization in essence was an affirmative action scheme to assist geographically disadvantaged students to gain tertiary education. The benefits enjoyed by Sinhalese students also meant a significant fall in the number of Tamil students within the university population.\n\nAt first, Tamil politicians pushed for a federal system through the Federal Party. This was met with suspicion and resistance from many Sinhalese. In the 1960s, the government of Sirimavo Bandaranaike proceeded to nationalize most missionary schools in the country, secularizing them and changing the language of instruction from English to Sinhala only. After this, it became rare for Sinhalese and Tamil children to attend school together. Unable to speak Sinhalese, it became increasingly difficult for Tamil youth to gain access to civil service jobs or attend universities, and unemployment rose.\n\nThe name of the country was changed from Ceylon to Sri Lanka in 1970, a name of Sanskrit origin that angered and alienated many Tamils.\n\nThe concept of a separate nation, Tamil Eelam, was proposed by the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) in 1976 . TULF was a coalition of parties who went on to campaign in the 1977 elections for an independent state for Tamils in Sri Lanka. They won most of the Tamil seats, but the government later banned them from Parliament for advocating an independent state.\n\nA mob went on rampage on the nights of May 31 to June 2 burning the market area of Jaffna, the office of the \"Tamil Newspaper\", the home of the member of Parliament for Jaffna, the Jaffna Public Library and killing four people. The destruction of the Jaffna Public Library was the incident which appeared to cause the most distress to the people of Jaffna. The 95,000 volumes of the Public Library destroyed by the fire included numerous culturally important and irreplaceable manuscripts. Witnesses reported the presence of uniformed police officers in the mob and their involvement in the deaths of four individuals.\n"}
{"id": "56124982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56124982", "title": "Penang Hot Air Balloon Fiesta", "text": "Penang Hot Air Balloon Fiesta\n\nThe Penang Hot Air Balloon Fiesta is an annual hot air balloon festival held within the city of George Town in Penang, Malaysia. The festival, organised by AKA Balloon Sdn Bhd, a Malaysian private limited firm, takes place every February at the city's Polo Ground.\n\nInaugurated in 2015, the two-day Penang Hot Air Balloon Fiesta typically features 15 hot air balloons, with the participating crew coming from various nations such as Malaysia, the Netherlands, Belgium and the United States. The previous edition of the festival in 2017 attracted as many as 170,000 visitors.\n\nThe Penang Hot Air Balloon Fiesta, the first hot air balloon festival in the State of Penang, was mooted to boost tourist arrivals into the city-state. The inaugural event, held at the Polo Ground on 21 and 22 February 2015, was timed to coincide with the Chinese New Year festivities.\n\nSince then, the event has grown considerably. Several on-site family-friendly activities have been added into the two-day event, including workshops, photography contests and kite flying. Smaller-scale preludes to the yearly event have been organised as well, such as a mini balloon fiesta at the Esplanade and a balloon display in Butterworth on the mainland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "283771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283771", "title": "Perfect crime", "text": "Perfect crime\n\nPerfect crime is a colloquial term used in law and fiction (especially crime fiction) to characterize crimes that are undetected, unattributed to an identifiable perpetrator, or otherwise unsolved or unsolvable as a kind of technical achievement on the part of the perpetrator. In certain contexts, the concept of perfect crime is limited to just undetected crimes; if an event is ever identified as a crime, some investigators say it cannot be called \"perfect\".\n\nA perfect crime should be distinguished from one that has merely not been solved yet or where everyday chance or procedural matters frustrate a conviction. There is an element that the crime is (or appears likely to be) \"unable\" to be solved.\n\nAs used by some criminologists and others who study criminal investigations (including mystery writers), a perfect crime goes unsolved not because of incompetence in the investigation, but because of the cleverness and skill of the criminal. In other words, the defining factor is the primary causative influence of the criminal's ability to avoid investigation and reprisal, and not so much the ability of the investigating authority to perform its duties.\n\nWould-be perfect crimes are a popular subject in crime fiction and movies. They include \"Rope\", \"Double Indemnity\", \"Strangers on a Train\", \"The Postman Always Rings Twice\", \"Witness for the Prosecution\", and \"Dial M for Murder\".\n\nA murder committed by somebody who had never before met the victim, has no criminal record, steals nothing, and tells no one might be a perfect crime. According to criminologists and scientists, this casual definition of perfect crime exists. Another possibility is that a crime might be committed in an area of high public traffic, where DNA from a wide variety of people is present, making the sifting of evidence akin to 'finding a needle in a haystack'.\n\nAn intentional killing in which the death is never identified as murder is an example of one of the more rigorous definitions of perfect crime. Other criminologists narrow the range to only those crimes that are not detected at all. By definition, it can never be known if such perfect crimes exist. Many \"close calls\" have been observed, however—enough to make investigators aware of the possibility of a perfect crime.\n\nIn 2005, Professor Brian C. Kalt of Michigan State University College of Law put forth an argument that the Vicinage Clause of the United States Constitution – requiring jury selection from the population of the state and court district where the crime is committed – may permit the commission of the \"perfect crime\" on the technical grounds that a jury trial could not be carried out. Since there are no residents in the portion of Yellowstone National Park that lies within the state of Idaho, and since the entire park has been placed within the jurisdiction of the Court for the District of Wyoming, there are no residents available to form a jury for crimes committed in this specific \"Venn diagram\" location.\n\nIn March 2009, a $6.8 million jewel theft in Germany was described as being close to a perfect crime, in that despite having DNA evidence (but no other evidence), the police were unable to bring the case to court since the DNA belonged to one of a pair of identical twins, and faced with denials by both, it could not be proven which of the two was the criminal. Other examples of one, or possibly both, identical twins avoiding punishment include juries unable to reach a verdict in a 2004 Boston rape trial, a 2005 Houston rape trial and a 2009 Malaysia drug-smuggling trial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2880062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2880062", "title": "Petty tyranny", "text": "Petty tyranny\n\nPetty tyranny (or petty authority or petty dictator or petty power) is authority exercised by a leader, usually one unchosen by the led, in a relatively limited or an intimate environment, such as that exercised by a fellow peer of a social group. It is a pejorative term, that carries with it a sense of authority that was gained, or is used, in an unfair or capricious manner.\n\nAshforth discussed potentially destructive sides of leadership and identified petty tyrants, i.e. leaders who exercise a tyrannical style of management, resulting in a climate of fear in the workplace. He proposed the following six characteristics to define petty tyranny:\n"}
{"id": "1348900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1348900", "title": "Saint Silvester Road Race", "text": "Saint Silvester Road Race\n\nThe Saint Silvester Road Race () is a long-distance running event, the oldest and most prestigious street race in Brazil.\n\nRegarded as the main international event in Latin American athletics, the Brazilian competition is held yearly in the city of São Paulo on December 31. This day is Saint Silvester's Day, as it is the day in which the Catholic saint, who was a Pope, died in the 4th century of the Christian Era.\n\nSão Paulo's race was originally known as a \"marathon\", although the course of the race, whose length has varied considerably over the years, was never that of a full marathon. Because of that, the organization eventually dropped the term \"marathon\", starting to refer to the event as a \"race\", \"international race\" or \"road race\". There was never an official effort on the part of the organization to address the change in the nomenclature, which causes many, including some media outlets, to continue using the term \"Saint Silvester Marathon\" when referring to the event. Its course is only long, less than half the length of a marathon but the race is made more difficult by the intense heat of the Brazilian summer and the geographical obstacles that have to be surmounted by the athletes.\n\nSeveral other places like Amadora, Porto and Volta à cidade do Funchal in Portugal (\"Corrida de São Silvestre\"), Calderara di Reno (\"Maratona di San Silvestro\") and Bolzano (\"BOclassic\") in Italy, and Madrid in Spain (\"San Silvestre Vallecana\"), organize yearly Saint Silvester road races or marathons every late December.\n\nCásper Líbero, a \"media millionaire\" of the early 20th century Brazil, is credited with originally coming up with the idea for the race. He used it as a means of promoting his newspaper. In 1928, the year of the race's 4th edition, he founded one of the first sports newspapers of the country, the \"Gazeta Esportiva\" (the \"Sportive Gazette\"), which then became the race's official organizer and sponsor. The race would be the main advertising element of this sports newspaper.\n\nThe race was held for the first time on December 31, 1925 and has not been interrupted or suspended even once during its history, not even for the duration of World War II.\n\nOriginally, it was intended for men only, and participation was restricted to citizens of the city of São Paulo. In the following years, runners from other parts of the country joined the race, but it was not until 1941 that a runner not from the city of São Paulo won the race: José Tibúrcio dos Santos, of Minas Gerais, another Brazilian state. At that time, the event was not yet open to foreign participation. That meant that athletes from other countries could not come in to participate, but foreigners residing in the city of São Paulo (immigrants) were free to enroll. Because of this, Italian Heitor Blasi was the only foreigner to have won the race before 1947.\n\nIn 1945 the field was opened so that foreign runners could participate. The first international race was restricted to invited runners from South America, but the success of the first two \"international events\" led race organizers to open the event to the rest of the world in 1947. That year marked the beginning of a 34-year-long period during which no Brazilian man won the event, until José João da Silva, from Pernambuco, won in 1980 (he would repeat the feat in 1985).\n\nThe event would remain a men-only affair until 1975, when the United Nations declared that year as the \"International Year of Women\". In commemoration of this, the race organizers held the women's race for the first time. The women's race started as an open event, and the first Brazilian victory would come only in its 20th edition (in 1995), when Carmem Oliveira won.\n\nStarting December 31, 1982, Rede Globo began to telecast the road race via satellite to the whole of Brazil, in partnership with TV Gazeta.\n\nSince 1993, a shorter race for children is held a few days before the main event (dubbed \"São Silvestrinha\", or \"Little Saint Silvester\" – a unisex event).\n\nUntil 1988, the race took place at the late night hour starting at 23:00, approaching the New Year's, but the year of 1989 - the year the race began to be recognized as an international running event - saw substantial changes in the race's format, in order to comply with the rules of the IAAF. The time of the race was altered for first afternoon (to 3:00 p.m. for women and 5:00 p.m. for men), the course direction was reversed, and men and women, who used to run together, had their races separated. In 1991, the length of the race was extended to 15,000 meters (the distance for the event used to vary almost yearly, usually between 6.5 km and 8.8 km). This variance needed to be corrected in order to meet IAAF marathon and road race regulations and requirements.\n\nFor the first race, in 1925, 60 people filled applications to participate, but only 48 actually showed up on the day of the race. Of these, only 37 were officially qualified, since the rules then required that all runners had to finish within 3 minutes of the winner in order to qualify in the final board.\n\nIn 2004, 13,000 men and 2,000 women participated in their respective events.\n\nAlthough the event had been open since 1945, it would become a noteworthy affair in the international calendar only in 1953, when the most famous runner of the time (and arguably of all time), Emil Zátopek, participated and won the race. In recent times, the foremost long distance runners of the last two decades (almost all of them, with the exception of Haile Gebrselassie of Ethiopia) have participated at least once in the event.\n\nThe principal winner of all times is now Paul Tergat, of Kenya, who has won the race 5 times (1995, 1996, 1998, 1999 and 2000). He also holds the record time for the present distance of 15 km, having won his very first race in São Paulo with a time of 43 minutes and 12 seconds.\n\n<div id=\"1\"> Brazilians won 18 times in the national era, and 11 times in the international era. \n<div id=\"2\"> Italy only won in the national era, with the Italo-Brazilian, Heitor Blasi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4373065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4373065", "title": "Signor–Lipps effect", "text": "Signor–Lipps effect\n\nThe Signor–Lipps effect is a paleontological principle proposed by Philip W. Signor and Jere H. Lipps which states that, since the fossil record of organisms is never complete, neither the first nor the last organism in a given taxon will be recorded as a fossil. The Signor–Lipps effect is often applied specifically to cases of the youngest known fossils of a taxon failing to represent the last appearance of an organism. The inverse, regarding the oldest known fossils failing to represent the first appearance of a taxon, is alternatively called the Jaanusson effect after researcher Valdar Jaanusson, or the Sppil–Rongis effect (\"Signor–Lipps\" spelled backwards).\nOne famous example is the coelacanth, which was thought to have become extinct in the very late Cretaceous – until a live specimen was caught in 1938. The animals known as \"Burgess Shale type fauna\" are best known from rocks of the Early and Middle Cambrian periods. Since 2006, though, a few fossils of similar animals have been found in rocks from the Ordovician, Silurian, and Early Devonian periods, in other words up to 100 million years after the Burgess Shale. The particular way in which such animals have been fossilized may depend on types of ocean chemistry that were present for limited periods of time. \n\nBut the Signor–Lipps effect is more important for the difficulties it raises in paleontology:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43722884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43722884", "title": "Stage17.tv", "text": "Stage17.tv\n\nStage17.tv is the first digital entertainment platform to offer curated, theatre-centric content to a global online community. With its unique focus on Broadway and the arts, Stage17 is pioneering the intersection between theatre and the digital source. Known as \"a hub of must see web series\" Stage17 is a new form of digital media with a demographic of 25-to-54-year-old men and women by using Broadway as a jumping off point. It can also be referred to as \"the newest intersection of Web, theatre, and independent story telling online.\" Stage17 produces its own original content and curates content from all over the internet, including popular web series like \"Wallflowers\".\n"}
{"id": "37753599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37753599", "title": "Strong (advertisement)", "text": "Strong (advertisement)\n\n\"Strong\" was a political advertisement issued by then-Texas Governor and current Secretary of Energy Rick Perry's presidential campaign in December 2011 for the 2012 Republican Party presidential primaries.\n\nThe ad was targeted to American Christian, socially conservative voters. It raised controversy for addressing gay people in the military and religion in public schools, largely due to Perry's disapproval of the former. \n\nThe video went viral and inspired a number of parodies. During the primaries, it became one of the most disliked videos on YouTube.\n\n"}
{"id": "54681911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54681911", "title": "Teatro Novissimo", "text": "Teatro Novissimo\n\nThe Teatro Novissimo was a theatre in Venice located in the Campo Santi Giovanni e Paolo with its entrance on the Calle de Mendicanti. It was the first theatre built in Venice specifically for the performance of opera. Because it was purpose-built, it had a wider stage than its existing competitors which allowed for the elaborate productions which became the Novissimo's hallmark. The theatre opened in the Carnival season of 1641 with the premiere of Sacrati's opera \"La finta pazza\". After its last production in 1645, the theatre was closed amidst mounting debts and was demolished in 1647.\n\nPublic commercial opera had begun in Venice in 1637. By the time the Teatro Novissimo was conceived and planned three years later, there were already three theatres staging operas in the city, Teatro San Cassiano, Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo, and Teatro San Moisè. The Novissimo (the word means \"Newest\" in English) would be unique in that it was purpose-built for staging opera and, unlike the other three, was built and owned by a consortium rather than a single noble family. The consortium consisted of the patrician Luigi Michiel and members of the Accademia degli Incogniti who included the librettists Giulio Strozzi, Giacomo Badoaro, and Giovanni Francesco Busenello.\n\nOn 30 May 1640 the consortium signed a contract with the Dominican friars of Santi Giovanni e Paolo allowing them to construct and operate a theatre on land adjacent to the monastery which at the time was occupied by a large shed. The contract stipulated that the new theatre would be only used for the performances of \"heroic\" operas, not comedies. Girolamo Lappoli, a businessman from Arezzo, was also involved in the project as the theatre's impresario and later claimed to have \"built\" the theatre. By October 1640, the composer Francesco Sacrati and the stage designer and architect Giacomo Torelli had joined the project along with the Venetian noblemen Gerolamo Landò, Giacomo Marcello, and Giacomo da Mosto who provided further financing. Torelli would not only create the sets and stage machinery, but also design the theatre itself. The stage, almost 11 metres wide, was able to accommodate Torelli's complex stage sets and machinery which would characterise the theatre's productions.\n\nThe Teatro Novissimo was inaugurated in the Carnival season of 1641 with the premiere of \"La finta pazza\" composed by Francesco Sacrati to a libretto by Giulio Strozzi with elaborate stage machinery by Giacomo Torelli. According to Ellen Rosand, it \"became the first and possibly the greatest operatic 'hit' of the century\". Unusually for the time, the complete libretto was published prior to the opening night, and the performances were also advertised through the writings of various members of the Incogniti. The libretto itself contained paeans to the opera's star singer Anna Renzi and the \"magical effects\" of its stage designs. \n\nFollowing the run of \"La finta pazza\" a 55-page book, \"Cannocchiale per la finta pazza\", written by another Incognito, Maiolino Bisaccioni, gave a detailed account of the opera's visual effects. The \"cannocchiale\" (\"telescope\") of the title refers to the book's stated purpose of providing a description of the visual effects not only for those who had been unable to attend, but also for those who had been seated far from the stage, implying that the Novissimo was probably a fairly large theatre. According to Rosand, the book also explicitly asserted for the first time the relationship between opera itself and \"the miraculous city of Venice\". The theme was continued in Bisaccioni's \"Apparati scenici per lo Teatro Novissimo di Venetia\". Printed in 1644, the text was illustrated with plates showing Torelli's set designs for the theatre's 1643 production of Sacrati's \"Venere gelosa\" and the 1644 production of Cavalli's \"Deidemia\".\n\nThe 1645 season, which saw the premiere of Rovetta's \"Ercole in Lidia\", proved to be the theatre's last. Debts had continued to mount and the friars were pressing for the return of their land. Girolamo Lappoli ceded the theatre to Maiolino Bisaccioni in May of that year. Several investors plus Giacomo Torelli, Paulo Morandi (the theatre's costume designer), and four singers, including Anna Renzi, sued Lappoli for unpaid debts and wages in the summer of 1645. The following year, Lappoli left Venice with his debts unpaid. The friars re-possessed the theatre and had it demolished in October 1647. In 1648 an equestrian school and stables were constructed on the site.\n\n\nLibretti printed for the premieres at the Teatro Novissimo:\n"}
{"id": "29988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29988", "title": "Tenochtitlan", "text": "Tenochtitlan\n\nTenochtitlan (), originally known as México-Tenochtitlán (, ), was a large Mexica city-state in what is now the center of Mexico City. Founded on June 20, 1325, the city was built on an island in what was then Lake Texcoco in the Valley of Mexico. The city was the capital of the expanding Aztec Empire in the 15th century until it was captured by the Spanish in 1521.\n\nAt its peak, it was the largest city in the Pre-Columbian Americas. It subsequently became a \"cabecera\" of the Viceroyalty of New Spain. Today, the ruins of Tenochtitlan are in the historic center of the Mexican capital.\n\nTenochtitlan was one of two Mexica \"āltēpetl\" (city-states) on the island, the other being Tlatelolco.\n\nTraditionally, the name Tenochtitlan was thought to come from Nahuatl (\"rock\") and (\"prickly pear\") and is often thought to mean, \"Among the prickly pears [growing among] rocks\". However, one attestation in the late 16th-century manuscript known as \"the Bancroft dialogues\" suggest the second vowel was short, so that the true etymology remains uncertain.\n\n covered an estimated , situated on the western side of the shallow Lake Texcoco.\n\nAt the time of Spanish conquests, Mexico City comprised both and . The city extended from north to south, from the north border of to the swamps, which by that time were gradually disappearing to the west; the city ended more or less at the present location of .\n\nThe city was connected to the mainland by bridges and causeways leading to the north, south, and west. The causeways were interrupted by bridges that allowed canoes and other water traffic to pass freely. The bridges could be pulled away, if necessary, to defend the city. The city was interlaced with a series of canals, so that all sections of the city could be visited either on foot or via canoe.\n\nLake Texcoco was the largest of five interconnected lakes. Since it formed in an endorheic basin, Lake was brackish. During the reign of Moctezuma I, the \"levee of \" was constructed, reputedly designed by . Estimated to be in length, the levee was completed circa 1453. The levee kept fresh spring-fed water in the waters around Tenochtitlan and kept the brackish waters beyond the dike, to the east.\n\nTwo double aqueducts, each more than long and made of terracotta, provided the city with fresh water from the springs at . This was intended mainly for cleaning and washing. For drinking, water from mountain springs was preferred. Most of the population liked to bathe twice a day; was said to take four baths a day. According to the context of Aztec culture in literature, the soap that they most likely used was the root of a plant called (\"Saponaria americana\"), and to clean their clothes they used the root of (\"Agave americana\"). Also, the upper classes and pregnant women washed themselves in a , similar to a sauna bath, which is still used in the south of Mexico. This was also popular in other Mesoamerican cultures.\n\nThe city was divided into four zones, or \"camps\"; each \"camp\" was divided into 20 districts (\"calpullis\", Nahuatl \"calpōlli\"); and each \"calpulli\", or 'big house', was crossed by streets or \"tlaxilcalli\". There were three main streets that crossed the city, each leading to one of the three causeways to the mainland of Tepeyac, Ixtapalpa, and Tlacopan. Bernal Díaz del Castillo reported that they were wide enough for ten horses. Surrounding the raised causeways were artificial floating gardens with canal waterways and gardens of plants, shrubs, and trees. The \"calpullis\" were divided by channels used for transportation, with wood bridges that were removed at night.\n\nThe earliest European images of the city were woodcuts published in Augsburg around 1522.\n\nEach \"calpulli\" (from Classical Nahuatl \"calpōlli\", Nahuatl pronunciation: [kaɬˈpoːlːi], meaning \"large house\") had its own \"tiyanquiztli\" (marketplace), but there was also a main marketplace in Tlatelolco – Tenochtitlan's sister city. Cortés estimated it was twice the size of the city of Salamanca with about 60,000 people trading daily. Bernardino de Sahagún provides a more conservative population estimate of 20,000 on ordinary days and 40,000 on feast days. There were also specialized markets in the other central Mexican cities.\n\nIn the center of the city were the public buildings, temples, and palaces. Inside a walled square, 500 meters to a side, was the ceremonial center. There were about 45 public buildings, including: the Templo Mayor, which was dedicated to the Aztec patron deity Huitzilopochtli and the Rain God Tlaloc; the temple of Quetzalcoatl; the \"tlachtli\" (ball game court) with the \"tzompantli\" or rack of skulls; the Sun Temple, which was dedicated to Tonatiuh; the Eagle's House, which was associated with warriors and the ancient power of rulers; the platforms for the gladiatorial sacrifice; and some minor temples.\n\nOutside was the palace of Moctezuma with 100 rooms, each with its own bath, for the lords and ambassadors of allies and conquered people. Also located nearby was the \"cuicalli\", or house of the songs, and the \"calmecac\".\n\nThe city had great symmetry. All constructions had to be approved by the \"calmimilocatl\", a functionary in charge of the city planning.\n\nThe palace of Montezuma II also had two houses or zoos, one for birds of prey and another for other birds, reptiles, and mammals. About 300 people were dedicated to the care of the animals.\n\nThere was also a botanical garden and an aquarium. The aquarium had ten ponds of salt water and ten ponds of fresh water, containing various fish and aquatic birds. Places like this also existed in Texcoco, Chapultepec, Huaxtepec (now called Oaxtepec), and Texcotzingo.\n\nTenochtitlan can be considered the most complex society in Mesoamerica in regard to social stratification. The complex system involved many social classes. The \"macehualtin\" were commoners who lived outside the island city of Tenochtitlan. The \"pipiltin\" were noblemen who were relatives of leaders and former leaders, and lived in the confines of the island. \"Cuauhipiltin\", or eagle nobles, were commoners who impressed the nobles with their martial prowess, and were treated as nobles. \"Teteuctin\" were the highest class, rulers of various parts of the empire, including the king. \"Tlacohtin\" were individuals who chose to enslave themselves to pay back a debt; they were not slaves forever and were not treated as badly as typical slaves seen in other ancient civilizations worldwide. Finally, the \"pochteca\" were merchants who traveled all of Mesoamerica trading. The membership of this class was based on heredity. \"Pochteca\" could become very rich because they did not pay taxes, but they had to sponsor the ritual feast of Xocotl Huetzi from the wealth that they obtained from their trade expeditions.\n\nStatus was displayed by location and type of house where a person lived. Ordinary people lived in houses made of reeds plastered with mud and roofed with thatch. People who were better off had houses of adobe brick with flat roofs. The wealthy had houses of stone masonry with flat roofs. They most likely made up the house complexes that were arranged around the inner court. The higher officials in Tenochtitlan lived in the great palace complexes that made up the city.\n\nAdding even more complexity to Aztec social stratification was the \"calpolli\". \"Calpolli\", meaning ‘big house’ is a group of families related by either kinship or proximity. These groups consist of both elite members of Aztec society and commoners. Elites provided commoners with arable land and nonagricultural occupations, and commoners performed services for chiefs and gave tribute.\n\nTenochtitlan was the capital of the Mexican civilization of the Mexica people, founded in 1325. The state religion of the Mexica civilization awaited the fulfillment of an ancient prophecy: the wandering tribes would find the destined site for a great city whose location would be signaled by an eagle with a snake in its beak perched atop a (Opuntia) cactus.\n\nThe Mexica saw this vision on what was then a small swampy island in Lake Texcoco, a vision that is now immortalized in Mexico's coat of arms and on the Mexican flag. Not deterred by the unfavourable terrain, they set about building their city, using the \"chinampa\" system (misnamed as \"floating gardens\") for agriculture and to dry and expand the island.\n\nA thriving culture developed, and the Mexica civilization came to dominate other tribes around Mexico. The small natural island was perpetually enlarged as Tenochtitlan grew to become the largest and most powerful city in Mesoamerica. Commercial routes were developed that brought goods from places as far as the Gulf of Mexico, the Pacific Ocean and perhaps even the Inca Empire.\n\nAfter a flood of Lake Texcoco, the city was rebuilt under the rule of Ahuitzotl in a style that made it one of the grandest ever in Mesoamerica.\n\nSpanish conquistador Hernán Cortés arrived in Tenochtitlan on November 8, 1519. With an estimated population between 200,000 and 300,000, many scholars believe Tenochtitlan to have been among the largest cities in the world at that time. Compared to the cities of Europe, only Paris, Venice and Constantinople might have rivaled it. It was five times the size of the London of Henry VIII. In a letter to the Spanish king, Cortés wrote that Tenochtitlan was as large as Seville or Córdoba. Cortes' men were in awe at the sight of the splendid city and many wondered if they were dreaming.\n\nAlthough some popular sources put the number as high as 350,000, the most common estimates of the population are of over 200,000 people. One of the few comprehensive academic surveys of Mesoamerican city and town sizes arrived at a population of 212,500 living on , It is also said that at one time, Moctezuma had rule over an empire of almost five million people in central and southern Mexico because he had extended his rule to surrounding territories to gain tribute and prisoners to sacrifice to the gods.\n\nWhen Cortés and his men arrived in Tenochtitlan, Moctezuma II, who precariously ruled over a large empire, chose to welcome Cortés as an honored guest, rather than risk a war which might quickly be joined by aggrieved indigenous people. Moctezuma may have feared that Cortés was the returning god Quetzalcoatl, because the Spanish arrival coincided with the close of an Aztec calendar cycle consistent with such a return. This claim is found in the Florentine Codex, among other early sources, and accepted as true in many later histories. However, some scholars doubt it.\n\nAs Cortés approached Tenochtitlan, the natives celebrated Toxcatl. At this event the most prominent warriors of altepetl would dance in front of a huge statue of Huitzilopochtli. The Spanish leader, Pedro de Alvarado, who was left in charge, worried that the natives planned a surprise attack. He captured three natives and tortured them until they said that this was indeed true. There was no proof, however, but Alvarado decided to attack first. During the festival, the Spaniards came heavily armed and closed off every exit from the courtyard so that no one would escape. This happened during their last days in Tenochtitlan.\n\nNobles lined each side of the city's main causeway, which extended about a league. Walking down the center came Moctezuma II, with two lords at his side, one his brother, the ruler of Iztapalapa. Cortés dismounted and was greeted by the ruler and his lords, but forbidden to touch him. Cortés gave him a necklace of crystals, placing it over his neck.\n\nThey were then brought to a large house that would serve as their home for their stay in the city. Once they were settled, Moctezuma himself sat down and spoke with Cortés. The great ruler declared that anything that they needed would be theirs to have. He was thrilled to have visitors of such stature. Although the Spaniards were seeking gold, Moctezuma expressed that he had very little of the sort, but all of it was to be given to Cortés if he desired it.\n\nSince arriving in Tenochtitlan, Cortés faced early trouble. Leaving a post in Vera Cruz, the officer left in charge received a letter from Qualpopoca, the leader of Almería, asking to become a vassal of the Spaniards. He requested that officials be sent to him so that he could confirm his submission. To reach the province, the officers would have to travel through hostile land. The officer in charge of Vera Cruz decided to send four officers to meet with Qualpopoca.\n\nWhen they arrived, they were captured and two were killed, the other two escaping through the woods. Upon their return to Vera Cruz, the officer in charge was infuriated, and led troops to storm Almería. Here they learned that Moctezuma was supposedly the one who ordered the officers executed. Back in Tenochtitlan, Cortés detained Moctezuma and questioned him. Though no serious conclusions were reached, this started the relationship between Moctezuma and the Spaniards on a bad note.\n\nCortés subsequently besieged Tenochtitlan for 75 days, causing a famine; directed the systematic destruction and leveling of the city; and began its rebuilding, despite opposition, with a central area designated for Spanish use (the \"traza\"). The outer Indian section, now dubbed \"San Juan Tenochtitlan\", continued to be governed by the previous indigenous elite and was divided into the same subdivisions as before. While the people of Tenochtitlan were celebrating the few Spaniards who were not able to escape and were killed, the city was in great ruins.\n\nThe people of Tenochtitlan were exposed to diseases. Someone who was exposed would not feel it for the first ten days, then the disease would spread throughout the body, causing many sores, pain in the body and high fever. People were weak to the point that they could not move, nor obtain food and water. They couldn't cook or bury the remaining dead bodies from the conquest. The population of the people of Tenochtitlan began to starve and weaken. The death toll rose steadily over the course of the next 60 days.\n\nCortés founded the Spanish capital of Mexico City on the ruins of Tenochtitlan. Despite the extensive damage to the built environment, the site retained symbolic power and legitimacy as the capital of the Aztec empire, which Cortés sought to appropriate. For a time this , the highest rank in the Spanish hierarchy of settlement designation, was called Mexico–Tenochtitlan. Charles Gibson devotes the final chapter of his classic work, \"The Aztecs Under Spanish Rule\", to what he called \"The City,\" with later historians building on his work. The Spaniards established a or town council, which had jurisdiction over the Spanish residents. The Spanish established a Europeans-only zone in the center of the city, an area of 13 blocks in each direction of the central plaza, which was the . Although many native residents died during the siege of Tenochtitlan, the indigenous still had a strong presence in the city, and were settled in two main areas of the island, designated San Juan Tenochtitlan and Santiago Tlatelolco, each with a municipal council that functioned the entire colonial period. San Juan Tenochtitlan was a Spanish administrative creation, which amalgamated four indigenous sections, with each losing territory to the Spanish . The Spanish laid out the streets of the in a checker board pattern, with straight streets and plazas at intervals, whereas the indigenous portions of the city were irregular in layout and built of modest materials. In the colonial period both San Juan Tenochtitlan and Santiago Tlatelolco retained jurisdiction over settlements on the mainland that they could draw on for labor and tribute demanded by the Spanish, but increasingly those subordinate settlements () were able to gain their autonomy with their own rulers and separate relationship with the Spanish rulers. Concern about the health of the indigenous population in early post-conquest Mexico–Tenochtilan led to the founding of a royal hospital for indigenous residents.\n\nThere are a number of colonial-era pictorial manuscripts dealing with Tenochtitlan–Tlatelolco, which shed light on litigation between Spaniards and indigenous over property. An account with information about the war of Tenochtitlan against its neighbor Tlatelolco in 1473 and the Spanish conquest in 1521 is the . Anthropologist Susan Kellogg has studied colonial-era inheritance patterns of Nahuas in Mexico City, using Nahuatl- and Spanish-language testaments.\n\nTenochtitlan's main temple complex, the Templo Mayor, was dismantled and the central district of the Spanish colonial city was constructed on top of it. The great temple was destroyed by the Spanish during the construction of a cathedral. The location of the Templo Mayor was rediscovered in the early 20th century, but major excavations did not take place until 1978–1982, after utility workers came across a massive stone disc depicting the nude dismembered body of the moon goddess Coyolxauhqui. The disc is in diameter, and is held at the Templo Mayor Museum.\nThe ruins, constructed over seven periods, were built on top of each other. The resulting weight of the structures caused them to sink into the sediment of Lake Texcoco; the ruins now rest at an angle instead of horizontally.\n\nMexico City's Zócalo, the Plaza de la Constitución, is located at the site of Tenochtitlan's original central plaza and market, and many of the original \"calzadas\" still correspond to modern city streets. The Aztec calendar stone was located in the ruins. This stone is in diameter and weighs over . It was once located half-way up the great pyramid. This sculpture was carved around 1470 under the rule of King Axayacatl, the predecessor of Tizoc, and is said to tell the history of the Mexicas and to prophesy the future.\n\nIn August 1987, archaeologists discovered a mix of 1,789 human bones below street level in Mexico City. The burial dates back to the 1480s and lies at the foot of the main temple in the sacred ceremonial precinct of the Aztec capital. The bones are from children, teenagers and adults. A complete skeleton of a young woman was also found at the site.\n"}
{"id": "1168199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168199", "title": "Theatre Royal, Newcastle", "text": "Theatre Royal, Newcastle\n\nThe Theatre Royal is a historic theatre, a Grade I listed building situated on Grey Street in Newcastle upon Tyne.\n\nThe theatre was designed by local architects John and Benjamin Green as part of Richard Grainger's grand design for the centre of Newcastle, and was opened on 20 February 1837 with a performance of \"The Merchant of Venice\". One of the first managers here was Thomas Ternan who employed his wife, Frances Ternan as the main actress.\n\nThe shareholders of the Proprietors` Committee appointed lessees to manage and programme the theatre. The longest running individual lessee, before Ltd companies, was Edward D Davis from 1845 to 1870 during which in 1867 the interior was redesigned by architect Charles J. Phipps. William Glover and George Francis, both of the Theatre Royal, Glasgow took over from 1871 to 1878; to be followed by Charles Bernard of the Gaiety Theatre, Glasgow until 1882. James Howard and Fred Wyndham of Edinburgh and Glasgow became lessees from 1883 to 1887. Due to their intention, carried out, of also leasing the Tyne Theatre and Opera House, the shareholder committee did not renew their lease of the Royal. \n\nInstead, Robert Arthur of Glasgow and now lessee of Her Majesty`s Theatre, Dundee took over in 1888. After the fire of 1899 he instructed architect Frank Matcham to totally redesign the interior, re-opening in 1901. The venues of Robert Arthur Theatres Ltd in Scotland and England, which had many shareholders in Tyneside, prospered until losses overwhelmed the company in 1911. At this point the Arthur shareholders, led by the family of Joseph Cowen MP, appointed a new chairman of the lessee company, Michael Simons, of Glasgow, who in 1895 had created Howard & Wyndham Ltd. \nFrom 1912 onwards the Theatre Royal Newcastle was an important part of the Howard & Wyndham group, led successfully by chairman Simons, followed by the Cruikshank family, whose King's Theatre, Edinburgh joined the group in 1928. Newcastle City Council took over ownership in 1967. \n\nNewcastle, Glasgow and Edinburgh formed a triangle of industry, commerce and entertainment business from the 1870s onwards. From 1962 and increasingly from the 1970s the interchange of shows and pantomimes was joined by tours each year of Scottish Opera and of Scottish Ballet. Opera North joined in.\nFollowing a performance of William Shakespeare's play \"Macbeth\", a huge fire destroyed the interior of the building in 1899. It had its interior redesigned by Frank Matcham and reopened on 31 December 1901. Externally, the building is exactly as it was when it was first built.\n\nIt underwent a major refurbishment and restoration in the latter part of the 1980s, reopening on 11 January 1988 with a performance of \"A Man For All Seasons\" starring Charlton Heston.\n\nThe Theatre Royal went dark on 14 March 2011 due to a major restoration of the auditorium, box office, bars and restaurant. The restoration restored the theatre to the original 1901 Frank Matcham Edwardian interior. The whole interior was stripped apart from the original plasterwork which was carefully preserved. The proscenium arch, tiers and boxes were gold leafed and the plasterwork restored. On all levels the seats were replaced with Edwardian-style theatre seats in keeping with the restoration. The amphitheatre which was removed during previous renovations was restored to offer more leg room and better views than the gallery. This took the theatre to five distinct seating areas, the stalls, grand circle, upper circle, amphitheatre and gallery. Wheelchair spaces were installed on levels which had previously been inaccessible. As well as the boxes near the stage, boxes at the rear of the grand and upper circles were also restored taking the total number of boxes up to ten. The stage lift and orchestra pit were replaced to offer better facilities for opera and musicals. A new ventilation system was put in place to improve comfort levels in the theatre. New frescos for the lobby and upper circle were commissioned and put in place. This £4.75m project introduced higher standards of comfort and improved energy. The Theatre Royal reopened on 12 September 2011 with Alan Bennett’s epic period drama \"The Madness of George III\"; George III was in fact the monarch who gave the Theatre Royal its charter.\n\nThe theatre currently hosts a variety of shows, including ballet, contemporary dance, drama, musicals and opera.The Christmas pantomime is one of the UK's most popular.\n\nAlmost all of the shows that come to the Theatre Royal are part of national British tours, and in a typical year the theatre will have 30 to 35 visiting shows. For the annual pantomime, and any visiting musicals and opera performances, there is a sizeable orchestra pit available which can seat 60 musicians if necessary. The stage itself is also of substantial size, and can house 50 singers, dancers, actors and musicians.\n\nNewcastle's original Theatre Royal opened on 21 January 1788. Its location on Mosley Street obstructed plans for the redevelopment of the city centre (as it was on the route of Grey Street), so it was demolished to make way for the present building. One of the theatre's most successful managers at this time was Stephen Kemble of the famous Kemble family, who managed the theatre from 1791 to 1806. The original theatre's final performance was on 25 June 1836.\n\nThe current theatre has a proscenium stage, and accommodates a variable orchestra pit on 2 lifts - which reduces the stall seating. The audience is seated on four levels: stalls (501), grand circle (252), upper circle (249) and gallery (247).\n\nProject A is a one-year actor training programme led by an artistic director and supported by leading industry specialists. Delivered from within the Theatre Royal over an academic year (3 terms) participants gain professional standard actor training culminating in a production term to be performed in the Studio Theatre and toured nationally.\n\nThe course started in September 2015 with the first year free for the successful actors. The programme is seen as an alternative to drama school and is expected to lift the actors involved into the industry.\n\nThe Royal Shakespeare Company have very strong ties to the theatre and are involved with the programme heavily in the second term.\n\n"}
{"id": "45450625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45450625", "title": "Thread Routes", "text": "Thread Routes\n\nThread Routes is a 16mm film series by artist Kimsooja.\n\nDivided into six chapters, \"Thread Routes\" takes place in six different cultural zones around the world. The artist considers her approach to this film as a 'visual poem' and a 'visual anthropology', in that it juxtaposes and presents structural similarities in performative elements of textile culture with the structures in nature, architecture, agriculture and gender relationships in different cultures. These non-descriptive and unnarrative documentary films were conceived after being inspired in Bruges, Belgium, in 2002, by the performative elements of traditional lace making, and the city's architectural structure.\n\nThe first chapter, completed in 2010, explores Peruvian weaving culture, and its tight alignment with its landscapes and historic archeological structures. This piece journeys throughout the country, from the Sacred Valley around Cusco and Machu Picchu to the Taquila Island villages, forming a non-linear timeline of the connection between people and their geographical environment.\n\nChapter II, which finished filming in the summer of 2011, focused on European lace making actions such as bobbin lace-making from Bruges (Belgium), Lepoglava and Pag (Croatia); industrial lace-making in Calais (France); needle point lace-making by nuns in a monastery in Hvar (Croatia) who use threads from dry aloe leaves; and traditional needlepoint on the small island of Burano (Italy). These scenes are set against representative European architecture such as the Duomo in Milan; the Eiffel Tower in Paris; and the Sedlec Ossuary in Kutna Hora (Czech Republic), which is decorated by human bones and skulls. Local vegetation and flowers overlap with scenes from La Alhambra in Granada (Spain) which, in its detailed and complex decorative Islamic architectural forms, conveys a spatial sensibility and a spiritual dimension that is mirrored in lace-making. The bold, masculine, and power-oriented monumental architectural forms are revealed as similar acts to the delicate, feminine, and ephemeral textile making.\n\nThe third chapter (2012) journeys to India and studies the traditions of dyeing, sewing, weaving, embroidery, tattoo and woodblock printing; juxtaposing them with the archeological structures and temporary housing structures of the nomadic communities in Gujara, as well as the Step Well and the Sun Temple in Ahmedabad.\n\nMost recently, Kimsooja filmed Chapter IV in China, where she encountered the specific weaving, dyeing and garment culture of the Miao minority in the Guizhou, Hainan and Yunnan provinces. These are depicted alongside elaborate silver adornment and paper making, as well as the ancient local housing structures in Fujian, the rice terraces of Yunnan and the landscapes of Guizhou and Hainan.\n\nCurrently in preproduction phase, \"Thread Routes - Chapter V\" will explore native American textile culture.\n\nThe first three chapters were presented at Guggenheim Bilbao between March and July 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "178621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178621", "title": "United Daughters of the Confederacy", "text": "United Daughters of the Confederacy\n\nThe United Daughters of the Confederacy (UDC) is an American hereditary association of Southern women established in 1894 in Nashville, Tennessee. The stated purposes of the organization includes the commemoration of Confederate soldiers and the funding of the erection of memorials to these men. The organization's treatment of the Confederacy, along with its promotion of the Lost Cause movement, is viewed by historians as advocacy of white supremacy.\n\nThe group was founded on September 10, 1894, by Caroline Meriwether Goodlett and Anna Davenport Raines as \"the National Association of the Daughters of the Confederacy\". The first chapter was formed in Nashville. The name was soon changed to \"United Daughters of the Confederacy\". Their stated intention was to \"tell of the glorious fight against the greatest odds a nation ever faced, that their hallowed memory should never die.\" Their primary activity was to support the construction of Confederate memorials. The UDC includes that members support U.S. troops and honor veterans of all U.S. wars.\n\nIn 1896, the organization established the Children of the Confederacy to impart similar values to younger generations through a mythical depiction of the Civil War and Confederacy. According to historian Kristina DuRocher, \"Like the KKK's children's groups, the UDC utilized the Children of the Confederacy to impart to the rising generations their own white-supremacist vision of the future.\" The UDC denies assertions that it promotes white supremacy.\n\nThe communications studies scholar W. Stuart Towns notes UDC's role \"in demanding textbooks for public schools that told the story of the war and the Confederacy from a definite southern point of view\". He adds that their work is one of the \"essential elements [of] perpetuating Confederate mythology\".\n\nThe UDC was incorporated on July 18, 1919. Its headquarters is located in the Memorial Building to the Women of the Confederacy, Richmond, Virginia.\n\nAcross the Southern United States, associations were founded after the Civil War, chiefly by women, to organize burials of Confederate soldiers, establish and care for permanent cemeteries, organize commemorative ceremonies, and sponsor impressive monuments as a permanent way of remembering the Confederate cause and tradition.\n\nThe UDC was influential primarily in the early twentieth century across the South, where its main role was to preserve and uphold the memory of the Confederate veterans, especially those husbands, sons, fathers and brothers who died in the Civil War. Memory and memorials became the central focus of the organization.\n\nHistorian Jacquelyn Dowd Hall notes that the UDC had a particular interest in the position of Southern (Confederate) women, with \"a commitment to bolstering vanquished and disheartened veterans and keeping the memory of the dead alive. But it was also committed to immortalizing the heroism of Confederate women, whose valor, its leaders believed, had been every bit as important as men's\". The UDC's methods were wide-ranging and ahead of their times:\n\nUDC leaders were determined to assert women's cultural authority over virtually every representation of the region's past. This they did by lobbying for state archives and museums, national historic sites, and historic highways; compiling genealogies; interviewing former soldiers; writing history textbooks; and erecting monuments, which now moved triumphantly from cemeteries into town centers. More than half a century before women's history and public history emerged as fields of inquiry and action, the UDC, with other women's associations, strove to etch women's accomplishments into the historical record and to take history to the people, from the nursery and the fireside to the schoolhouse and the public square.\n\n\"The number of women's clubs devoted to filiopietism and history was staggering\", says historian W. Fitzhugh Brundage, noting that women were much more likely to be involved in a variety of (historical) organizations than men, who devoted their energies to fraternal societies. Brundage notes that after women's suffrage came in 1920, the historical role of the women's organizations eroded.\n\nAfter 1900 the UDC became an umbrella organization coordinating local memorial groups. The UDC women specialized in sponsoring local memorials. After 1945, they were active in placing historical markers along Southern highways. The UDC has also been active in national causes during wartime. According to the organization, during World War I, it funded 70 hospital beds at the American Military Hospital on the Western front and contributed over US$82,000 for French and Belgian war orphans. The homefront campaign raised $24 million for war bonds and savings stamps. Members also donated $800,000 to the Red Cross. During World War II, they gave financial aid to student nurses. The UDC donated $50,000 for the construction of a Confederate memorial hall on the campus of Vanderbilt University in 1935. By August 2016, the university returned $1.2 million to the UDC after the board of trust, backed by anonymous donors, agreed to remove the word \"Confederate\" from the building.\n\nThe UDC encouraged women to publish their experiences in the war, beginning with biographies of major southern figures, such as Varina Davis's of her husband Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederacy. Later, women began adding more of their own experiences to the \"public discourse about the war\", in the form of memoirs, such as those published in the early 1900s by Sara Pryor, Virginia Clopton, Louise Wright and others. They also recommended structures for the memoirs. By the turn of the twentieth century, a dozen memoirs by southern women were published. These memoirs were part of the growing public memory about the antebellum years and the Lost Cause narrative, which critics have described as white supremacist, as they vigorously defended the Confederacy and its founding principles (which included the enslavement of African-Americans).\n\nThe Southern Cross of Honor was a postbellum honor presented by the United Daughters of the Confederacy to members of the United Confederate Veterans. The first Cross was bestowed on April 26, 1900. The UDC kept records of the descendants of Confederate soldiers and sailors who served in the U S Armed Forces during World War I.  In 1919, it was decided that a medal be created to honor them.  The first World War I Crosses of Military Service were awarded on November 22, 1923, with the first being placed on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington Cemetery. The Crosses of Military Service Awards has been expanded over the years to include the Spanish-American War (1930), the Philippine Insurrection Cross of Military Service (1930), the World War II Cross of Military Service, the Korean War Cross of Military Service (1952), the Vietnam Conflict Cross of Military Service (1966), and the Global War on Terror Cross of Military Service (2005).\n\nThe Southern Cross of Honor and the Cross of Military Service are the highest honors the UDC bestows. \"The UDC is the only patriotic organization in America that bestows such an award.\" Each Cross is presented to the recipient with the following words:  \"Fortes creantur fortibus – the brave beget the brave.\"\n\nDuring the first decades of their existence, the UDC focused on caring for Confederate soldiers and their widows. When the numbers of Confederate veterans began to dwindle, they focused on their remaining objectives.  Education of the descendants of those who served the Confederacy became one of the key interests of the organization. Some state divisions within the UDC built dormitories and sponsored scholarships, but there was no coordinated support for education by the national organization.  The divisions were responsible for scholarships and building dormitories for women.  At the 1907 General Convention, Caroline Meriwether Goodlett spoke of the shift in the UDC's focus.  As monuments were erected, she \"sat by… thinking that the monument fever would abate\". She believed that \"the most thoughtful and best educated women\" in the organization should have realized that the \"grandest monument (they) could build in the South would be an educated motherhood\".\n\nThe UDC combined education with support of the military during World War II by establishing a nurses' training fund. Each scholarship provided approximately $100 per year for a three-year nursing program.  When a scholarship was offered, local Chapters were encouraged to contact local schools to locate students who needed assistance to fund their education.\n\nIn addition, the UDC sponsors essay and poetry compositions, in which the participants are not to use the phrase \"Civil War\", \"War Between the States\" being the preferred term.\n\nThe Children of the Confederacy, also known as the CofC, is an auxiliary organization to the UDC. The official name is \"Children of the Confederacy of the United Daughters of the Confederacy\". It comprises children from birth through the time of the Children of the Confederacy Annual General Convention following their 18th birthday. All Children of the Confederacy chapters are sponsored by UDC chapters. Children are taught the \"Catechism on the History of the Confederate States of America, 1861-1865\", which claims that Northerners did away with slavery because the climate was unsuitable, that they had no intention of ever paying the South for its slaves after abolition, that slaves in the South were faithful to their owners, who were caring and gentle people: cruel slave owners existed only in the North.\n\nDuring the period 1880–1910, the UDC was one of many groups that celebrated Lost Cause mythology and presented \"a romanticized view of the slavery era\" in the United States. The UDC promoted white Southern solidarity, allowing white Southerners to refer to a mythical past in order to legitimize racial segregation and white supremacy. The UDC worked to \"define southern identity around images from an Old South that portrayed slavery as benign and slaves as happy and a Reconstruction that portrayed blacks as savage and immoral\". Historian James M. McPherson has said that the present-day UDC promotes a white supremacist and neo-Confederate agenda, saying \n\nI think I agree a hundred percent with Ed Sebesta, though, about the motives or the hidden agenda not too deeply hidden I think of such groups as the United Daughters of the Confederacy and the Sons of the Confederate Veterans. They are dedicated to celebrating the Confederacy and rather thinly veiled support for white supremacy. And I think that also is the again not very deeply hidden agenda of the Confederate flag issue in several Southern states.\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center considers the UDC as part of the Neo-Confederate movement that began in the early 1980s, which the Center states is \"a reactionary conservative ideology that has made inroads into the Republican Party from the political right, and overlaps with the views of white nationalists and other more radical extremist groups\".\nAs of August 2018 their website still stated that \"“Slaves, for the most part, were faithful and devoted. Most slaves were usually ready and willing to serve their masters.”\n\n\"Perhaps nothing illuminates the UDC's true nature more than its relationship with the Ku Klux Klan. Many commentators have said the UDC simply supported the Klan. That is not true. The UDC during Jim Crow venerated the Klan and elevated it to a nearly mythical status. It dealt in and preserved Klan artifacts and symbology. It even served as a sort of public relations agency for the terrorist group.\" UDC funded a now-vanished memorial to the Klan near Concord, North Carolina.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1321609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1321609", "title": "Vaisakhi", "text": "Vaisakhi\n\nVaisakhi (IAST: ), also known as Baisakhi, Vaishakhi, or Vasakhi is a historical and religious festival in Sikhism and Hinduism. It is usually celebrated on 13 or 14 April every year.\n\nVaisakhi marks the Sikh new year and commemorates the formation of Khalsa panth of warriors under Guru Gobind Singh in 1699. It is additionally a spring harvest festival for the Sikhs. \n\nVaisakhi observes major events in the history of Sikhism and the Indian subcontinent that happened in the Punjab region. The significance of Vaisakhi as a major Sikh festival marking the birth of Sikh order started after the persecution and execution of Guru Tegh Bahadur for refusing to convert to Islam under the orders of the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb. This triggered the coronation of the tenth Guru of Sikhism and the historic formation of Khalsa, both on the Vaisakhi day. Vaisakhi was also the day when colonial British empire officials committed the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on a gathering, an event influential to the Indian movement against colonial rule.\n\nOn Vaisakhi, Gurdwaras are decorated and hold kirtans, Sikhs visit and bathe in lakes or rivers before visiting local Gurdwaras, community fairs and \"nagar kirtan\" processions are held, and people gather to socialize and share festive foods. For many Hindus, the festival is their traditional solar new year, a harvest festival, an occasion to bathe in sacred rivers such as Ganges, Jhelum and Kaveri, visit temples, meet friends and party over festive foods. This festival in Hinduism is known by various regional names.\n\nVaisakhi is traditionally observed on 13 or 14 April, every year. The festival is important to both Sikhs and Hindus. The festival coincides with other new year festivals celebrated on the first day of Vaisakh in other regions of the Indian Subcontinent such as Pohela Boishakh, Bohag Bihu, Vishu, Puthandu among others.\n\nThe spelling varies with region. In Punjab region, \"Vaisakhi\" is common, but in the Doabi and Malwai dialects, speakers often substitute a \"b\" for a \"v\". The spelling used depends on the dialect of the writer.\n\nVaisakhi is one of the three traditionally Hindu festivals chosen by Guru Amar Das in which Sikhs were to congregate and celebrate together (the others being Maha Shivaratri and Diwali). The alternative view is that Guru Amar Das chose Maghi, instead of Maha Shivaratri.\n\nSubsequent events gave a new meaning to the festival which is, in part, a remembrance of the foundation of the Khalsa Sikh order which started after the ninth Guru Tegh Bahadur was persecuted and then beheaded under the orders of the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb, after he stood up for freedom of religious practice and refused to convert to Islam. The guru's martyrdom triggered the coronation of the tenth and last Guru of Sikhism, and the formation of the \"sant-sipahi\" group of Khalsa, both on the Vaisakhi day.\n\nThe Vaisakhi festival Khalsa tradition started in the year 1699, as it is on this day that the 10th Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh laid down the foundation of the Panth Khalsa, that is the Order of the Pure Ones, by baptizing Sikh warriors to defend religious freedoms. This gave rise to the Vaisakhi or Baisakhi festival being observed as a celebration of Khalsa panth formation and is also known as Khalsa Sirjana Divas and Khalsa Sajna Divas. The festival is celebrated on Vaisakhi day (typically 14 April), since 1699. The Birth of the Khalsa Panth was either on 13 April 1699 or 30 March 1699. Since 2003, the Sikh Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee named it Baisakh (Vaisakh), making the first day of the second month of Vaisakh according to its new Nanakshahi calendar.\n\nA special celebration takes place at Talwandi Sabo (where Guru Gobind Singh stayed for nine months and completed the recompilation of the Guru Granth Sahib), in the Gurudwara at Anandpur Sahib the birthplace of the Khalsa, and at the Golden Temple in Amritsar.\n\nVaisakhi has been the traditional Sikh New Year. According to the Khalsa sambat, the Khalsa calendar starts from the day of the creation of the Khalsa- 1 Vaisakh 1756 Bikrami (30 March 1699). The festival has been traditionally observed in the Punjab region.\n\nSikhs communities organise processions called \"nagar kirtan\" (literally, \"town hymn singing\"). These are led by five khalsa who are dressed up as \"Panj Pyaare\", and the processions through the streets. The people who march sing, make music, sing hymns from the Sikh texts. Major processions also carry a copy of the Guru Granth Sahib in reverence.\n\nVaisakhi is a harvest festival for people of the Punjab region. In the Punjab, Vaisakhi marks the ripening of the rabi harvest. Vaisakhi also marks the Punjabi new year. This day is observed as a thanksgiving day by farmers whereby farmers pay their tribute, thanking God for the abundant harvest and also praying for future prosperity. The harvest festival is celebrated by Sikhs and Punjabi Hindus. Historically, during the early 20th century, Vaisakhi was a sacred day for Sikhs and Hindus and a secular festival for all Muslims and non-Muslims including Punjabi Christians. In modern times, sometimes Christians participate in Baisakhi celebrations along with Sikhs and Hindus.\n\nAawat pauni is a tradition associated with harvesting, which involves people getting together to harvest the wheat. Drums are played while people work. At the end of the day, people sing dohay to the tunes of the drum.\n\nThe harvest festival is also characterized by the folk dance, Bhangra which traditionally is a harvest dance.\n\nFairs or \"Melas\" are held in many parts of Punjab, India to mark the new year and the harvesting season. Vaisakhi fairs take place in various places, including Jammu City, Kathua, Udhampur, Reasi and Samba, in the Pinjore complex near Chandigarh, in Himachal Pradesh cities of Rewalsar, Shimla, Mandi and Prashar Lakes.\nThe first day of Vaisakh marks the traditional solar new year and it is an ancient festival that predates the founding of Sikhism. The harvest is complete and crops ready to sell, representing a time of plenty for the farmers. Fairs and special thanksgiving pujas (prayers) are common in the Hindu tradition.\n\nThe first day of Vaisakh marks the solar new year. It is the New Year's Day for Hindus in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Uttrakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and other parts of India. However, this is not the universal new year for all Hindus. For some, such as those in and near Gujarat, the new year festivities coincide with the five day Diwali festival. For others, the new year falls on Ugadi, Gudi Padwa and Cheti Chand, which falls a few weeks earlier.\nIt is regionally known by many names among the Hindus, though the festivities and its significance is similar. It is celebrated by Hindus bathing in sacred rivers, as they believe that river goddess Ganges descended to earth on Vaisakhi. Some rivers considered particularly sacred include the Ganges, Jhelum and Kaveri. Hindus visit temples, meet friends and party over festive foods.\n\nVaisakhi coincides with the festival of 'Vishu' celebrated in Kerala a day after Vaisakhi. The festivities include fireworks, shopping for new clothes and interesting displays called 'Vishu Kani'. Hindus make arrangements of flowers, grains, fruits which friends and family visit to admire as \"lucky sight\" (\"Vishukkani\"). Giving gifts to friends and loved ones, as well as alms to the needy are a tradition of Kerala Hindus on this festive day.\n\nVaisakhi is celebrated as Pohela Boishakh in West Bengal and Bahag Bihu in Assam, but typically one or two days after Vaisakhi.\n\nThe following is a list of new year festivals:\n\nThe new year falls on or about the same day every year for many Buddhist communities in parts of South and Southeast Asia. This is likely an influence of their shared culture in the 1st millennium CE. Some examples include:\n\nThe Bikhoti Festival of Uttrakhand involves people taking a dip in holy rivers. A popular custom involves beating symbolic stones representing demons with sticks. The fair is celebrated in various major centres including Sealdah, Bageshwar and Dwarahat and involves much singing and dancing, accompanied by local drums and other instruments.\n\nVishu is the Hindu new year festival celebrated on the same day as Vaisakhi in the Indian state of Kerala, and falls on the first day of Malayali month called Medam. The festival is notable for its solemnity and the general lack of pomp and show that characterize other Hindu festivals of Kerala such as Onam.\n\nThe festival is marked by family time, preparing colorful auspicious items and viewing these as the first thing on the Vishu day. In particular, Malayali Hindus seek to view the golden blossoms of the Indian laburnum (\"Kani Konna\"), money or silver items (\"Vishukkaineetam\"), and rice. The day also attracts firework play by children, wearing new clothes (\"Puthukodi\") and the eating a special meal called \"Sadya\", which is a mix of salty, sweet, sour and bitter items. The Vishu arrangement typically includes an image of Vishnu, typically as Krishna. People also visit temples on the day.\n\nBohag Bihu or Rangali Bihu marks the beginning of the Assamese New Year on 13 April. It is celebrated for seven days Vishuva Sankranti (Mesha Sankranti) of the month of Vaisakh or locally 'Bohag' (Bhaskar Calendar). The three primary types of Bihu are Rongali Bihu, Kongali Bihu, and Bhogali Bihu. Each festival historically recognizes a different agricultural cycle of the paddy crops. During Rangali Bihu there are 7 pinnacle phases: 'Chot', 'Raati', 'Goru', 'Manuh', 'Kutum', 'Mela' and 'Chera'.\n\nMaha Vishuva Sankranti marks the Oriya new year in Odisha. Celebrations include various types of folk and classical dances, such as the Shiva-related Chhau dance.\n\nThe Bengali new year is celebrated as Pahela Baishakh on 14 April every year, and a festive Mangal Shobhajatra, started by students of Dhaka University in Bangladesh in 1989, is organized in West Bengal, Tripura and Bangladesh. This celebration was listed in 2016 by the UNESCO as a cultural heritage of humanity.\n\nThe festival is celebrated as a national holiday in Bangladesh. Also spelled Pohela Boishakh is also known as Nobo Barsho as it is the first day of the Bengali month of Bongabdo. Fairs are organised to celebrate the event which provide entertainment including the presentation of folk songs.\n\nPuthandu, also known as \"Puthuvarusham\" or \"Tamil New Year\", is the first day of the month \"Chithirai\" on the Tamil calendar.\n\nOn this day, Tamil people greet each other by saying \"Puttāṇṭu vāḻttukkaḷ!\" or \"Iṉiya puttāṇṭu nalvāḻttukkaḷ!\", which is equivalent to \"Happy new year\". The day is observed as a family time. Households clean up the house, prepare a tray with fruits, flowers and auspicious items, light up the family Puja altar and visit their local temples. People wear new clothes and youngster go to elders to pay respects and seek their blessings, then the family sits down to a vegetarian feast.\n\nIn the Mithal region of Bihar and Nepal, the new year is celebrated as Jurshital. It is traditional to use lotus leaves to serve sattu (powdered meal derived from grains of red gram and jau (Hordeum vulgare) and other ingredients) to the family members.\n\nPakistan has many sites that are of historic importance to the Sikh faith, such as the birth place of Guru Nanak. These sites attract pilgrims from India and abroad every year on Vaisakhi. Pakistan used to have many more Sikhs, but a vast majority moved to India during the 1947 India-Pakistan partition. Contemporary Pakistan has about 20,000 Sikhs in a total population of about 200 million Pakistanis, or about 0.01%. These Sikhs, and thousands more who arrive from other parts of the world for pilgrimage, observe Vaisakhi in Western Punjab (Pakistan) with festivities centered on the Panja Sahib complex in Hasan Abdal, Gurudwaras in Nankana Sahib, and in various historical sites in Lahore.\n\nAccording to Aziz-ud-din Ahmed, Lahore used to have Baisakhi Mela after the harvesting of the wheat crop in April. However, adds Ahmed, the city started losing its cultural vibrancy in 1970s after Zia-ul-Haq came to power, and in recent years \"the Pakistan Muslim League (N) government in Punjab banned kite flying through an official edict more under the pressure of those who want a puritanical version of Islam to be practiced in the name of religion than anything else\". Unlike the Indian state of Punjab that recognizes the Vaisakhi Sikh festival as an official holiday, the festival is not an official holiday in Punjab or Sindh provinces of Pakistan where Islamic holidays are officially recognized instead.\nIn the Province of British Columbia, large, local Sikh communities in the cities of Vancouver, Abbotsford, and Surrey hold their annual Vaisakhi celebrations in April, which include two Nagar Kirtan (parades). The Vancouver parade starts at Ross Street Temple and makes its way through the traditional Punjabi market in South Vancouver. One week later, the festival in Surrey is one of the largest such celebrations outside of India, having attracted over 200,000 people in 2014, over 350,000 in 2015, and approached 400,000 in 2016. The 2017 attendance in Surrey reportedly topped 400,000, causing organizers to consider future distribution of the festival over several days and local cities, particularly in areas of economic disadvantage which would benefit from the generous charitable efforts seen during Vaisakhi celebrations. Record attendance was again experienced in April, 2018 in the 20th annual Surrey Vaisakhi parade, with the RCMP officially estimating the crowd at over half a million people in a city with a 2016 census population of 517,887. Starting at the Gurdwara Dashmesh Darbar Temple (12885 85th Avenue in Surrey), the parade features a variety of floats, community groups, free food, live music and dancers and performers, and travels along 124th Street, turns left onto 75th Avenue, continues on 76th Avenue, onto 128th Street, then back to the Temple. Kelowna's annual Vaisakhi parade is held a week after Surrey's parade each year and begins and ends at the Sikh Temple on Rutland Road. Victoria's all-day Vaisakhi celebration features a parade that begins and ends at Gurdwara Singh Sabha, 470 Cecelia Road. The 2018 celebrations on 29 April will be the first held in Victoria in over 100 years.\n\nIn the Province of Alberta, the Edmonton Vaisakhi parade is held in May and travels between the Gurdwara Singh Sabha (4504 Millwoods Road S) & Gurdwara Millwoods (2606 Millwoods Road E) temples.\n\nIn the Province of Nova Scotia, the Halifax-based Maritime Sikh Society holds Vaisakhi celebrations in April featuring Shabad Kirtan performed by professional ragis (musicians).\n\nIn the Province of Ontario, the Toronto Vaisakhi Parade is held in April, starting at the Canadian National Exhibition grounds and traveling east to Toronto City Hall, finishing almost three hours later. Following the parade, dignitaries address the gathering until late afternoon. In the city of Malton, a three-hour Nagar Kirtan parade winds from Morning Star, Goreway, Derry Rd, & Airport Rd to Malton Gurdwara Sahib. In the city of Brampton, the Gurudwara Sikh Sangat temple and Gobind Sarvar Gurmat School hold Vaisakhi cultural events such as yoga, pagh (turban) tying, storytelling, and food fairs.\n\nIn the Province of Saskatchewan, the Saskatoon Vaisakhi parade is held in May, starting and ending at the Gurudwara Sahib Temple at 331 Lowe Road.\nThe United Kingdom has a large Sikh community originating from the Indian sub-continent, East Africa and Afghanistan. The largest concentrations of Sikhs in the UK are to be found in the West Midlands (especially Birmingham and Wolverhampton) and London. The Southall Nagar Kirtan is held on a Sunday a week or two before Vaisakhi. The Birmingham Nagar Kirtan is held in late April in association with Birmingham City Council, and is an annual event attracting thousands of people which commences with two separate nagar kirtans setting off from gurdwaras in the city and culminating in the Vaisakhi Mela at Handsworth Park.\nAmongst Sikh populations in the United States, there is usually a parade commemorating the Vaisakhi celebration. In Manhattan, New York City people come out to do \"Seva\" (selfless service) such as giving out free food, and completing any other labor that needs to be done. In Los Angeles, California, the local Sikh community consisting of many gurdwaras holds a full day Kirtan (spiritual music) program followed by a parade.\nThe Sikh community, a subgroup of the Malaysian Indian ethnic minority race, is an ethnoreligious minority in Malaysia, which is why Vaisakhi is not a public holiday. However, in line with the government's efforts to promote integration among the country's different ethnic and religious groups, the prime minister, Najib Razak has announced that beginning 2013, all government servants from the Sikh Malaysian Indian community will be given a day off on Vaisakhi Day. Vaisakhi 'open houses' are also held across the country during the day of the festival, or the closest weekend to it.\n\nThe spelling varies with region. In Punjab region, Vaisakhi is common, while in the Doabi and Malwai regions, it is common for speakers to substitute a \"B\" for a \"V\". Therefore, the spelling used is dependent on the dialect of the writer.\n"}
{"id": "49960664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49960664", "title": "Wedding of Prince Philippe and Mathilde d'Udekem d'Acoz", "text": "Wedding of Prince Philippe and Mathilde d'Udekem d'Acoz\n\nThe wedding of Prince Philippe, Duke of Brabant, and Mathilde d'Udekem d'Acoz took place on 4 December 1999 in Brussels, Belgium. The civil proceedings were conducted at Brussels Town Hall while the religious ceremony took place at the Cathedral of Saint Michel. The wedding has been described as the social event of the decade within Belgium and it was the last royal wedding of the second millennium.\n\nThe groom, then Philippe, Duke of Brabant, is the eldest son of King Albert II and Queen Paola. The bride, Mathilde d'Udekem d'Acoz is the daughter of Patrick d'Udekem d'Acoz, a Belgian nobleman and Anna Maria Komorowska, a descendant of Polish noble families such as the Princes Sapieha and Counts Komorowski. After the wedding, Mathilde became Duchess of Brabant and a Princess of Belgium on 8 November 1999 (published on 13 November 1999 and effective from 4 December 1999). In 2013 Philippe and Mathilde became the King and Queen of the Belgians. Mathilde is the first Belgian born queen in the country's history.\n\nThe first of the day's main events took place in the Gothic setting of Brussels Town Hall where Philippe and Mathilde contracted a civil marriage in the French, Flemish Dutch and German languages. Mathilde's bridal gown was designed by Edouard Vermeulen. Philippe wore the uniform of a Belgian Air Force colonel. Thereafter the couple traveled to the nearby Cathedral of Saint Michel to marry according to the rites of the Roman Catholic Church. An evening reception took place in the Chateau de Laeken, a royal residence.\n\nThe run up to the wedding was said to have led to widespread feelings of positive sentiment in Belgium, with the potential for greater unity between the country's Flemish-speaking north and French-speaking south. Around 50,000 people lined the streets of Brussels on the occasion of Philippe and Mathilde's wedding. As many as 200,000 people had been expected but the lower numbers were perhaps on account of the bitterly cold weather on the day. After the wedding some popular culture academics commented that the wedding had had a unifying effect on the Belgian people as well as marking a new phase of positivity in the country. The BBC however reported that academics and political commentators in Belgium deemed that the national rift was too great for the wedding to have much effect.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21576798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21576798", "title": "Wolf-baiting", "text": "Wolf-baiting\n\nWolf-baiting is a blood sport involving the baiting of wolves. \n\nHistorically, the baiting of wolves was more in the context of training dogs for wolf hunting than public entertainment. Wolves would sometimes be caught, either at the end of hunts, or in set traps, and would be set upon by the dogs, usually as a way of helping them master their fear of the animal. When training young or inexperienced dogs, the wolf would be hamstrung. Accounts as to how wolves react to being attacked by dogs vary, though John James Audubon wrote that young wolves generally show submissive behaviour, while older wolves fight savagely. \nOne of the earliest recorded incidents of wolf-baiting occurred during one of the Roman civil wars. The Dacians, hoping to take advantage of Rome's division, pressed their chieftain Scorlyo to launch an offensive. Scorlyo brought several dogs to the city square, which immediately began fighting one another. However, a captured wolf was brought in, to which the dogs ceased their fighting and attacked it. By this, Scorlyo intended to teach his people that whatever war a nation had within itself, it would always stand firm in attacking an outsider. However, wolves can be extremely dangerous opponents for dogs, even when outnumbered. Louis XIII of France once acquired an old wolf and set his best dogs on it three at a time. The wolf managed to kill twelve of them without sustaining any serious injury. The fighting styles of wolves and dogs differ significantly; while dogs typically limit themselves to attacking the head, neck and shoulder, wolves will make greater use of body blocks, and attack the extremities of their opponents. Theodore Roosevelt once wrote that he considered a large mastiff a match for a wolf only if the latter was a young or undersized Texas wolf, though he conceded that even if the dog was the heavier of the two, its teeth and claws would be very much smaller, weaker and its hide less tough.\n\n"}
{"id": "43609350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43609350", "title": "World Quality Day", "text": "World Quality Day\n\nWorld Quality Day is celebrated every year around the world in November. The day was designed to increase worldwide awareness of the important contribution that quality makes towards both organisational and national growth, and prosperity.\n\nWorld Quality Day takes place every year on the second Thursday of November. Businesses across the world take part in a variety of activities such as business-wide seminars, presentations, quizzes and competitions at their workplace. Events are usually organised by quality professionals based within organisations and are designed to spread the ‘importance of quality’ message to non-quality professionals.\n\nAccording to the Chartered Quality Institute (CQI), the responsibility of the quality professional can be defined through five main areas – governance, assurance, improvement, leadership and context.\n\nFor 2018, the theme is ‘Quality: A question of trust ’\n\n2018: Quality: A question of trust which focuses on reputation and trust.\n\n2017: Celebrating Everyday Leadership which focuses on Quality professionals at all levels displaying leadership behaviours.\n\n2016: Making operational governance count’ which focuses on the impact of failure and how it is putting the reputation of organisations in the private, public, and not-for-profit sectors under the spotlight like never before.\n\n2014: ‘Building a Quality World Together’ which focuses on the impact quality professionals make to an organisation.\n\n2013: ‘Making Collaboration Count’. Designed to reflect the importance of collaborating with colleagues, departments and partner organisations\n\n2012: ‘Quality: Delivering Competitive Advantage’. Derived from the belief that in order to survive during an economic downturn, organisations require a strong competitive advantage, and that quality management and its focus on improving efficiency and productivity can help organisations achieve this.\n\n2011: 'In Pursuit of Excellence’. Recognising that in order to succeed, organisations must continuously strive to improve.\n\n2010: 'Out of the Crisis'. Focused on what a fit organisation looks like and the role that quality management professionals play in facilitating fitness.\n\n2009 Organisations worldwide ran events or participated in one of the specially organised regional events.\n\n2008 Saw the first World Quality Day conference at the Imarsat Conference Centre in London and provided a forum for innovation, inspiration and creative ideas.\n\n"}
