{"id": "57887837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57887837", "title": "2017 YE5", "text": "2017 YE5\n\nThe binary asteroid was discovered in December 2017 by amateur astronomers Claudine Rinner and Michel Ory with observations provided by Cadi Ayyad University's Morocco Oukaimeden Sky Survey Telescope (observatory director, Benkhaldoun Zouhair), and the Mount Lemmon Survey. The asteroid was determined to be a near-equal mass binary asteroid using bistatic radar measurements from Goldstone, Arecibo Observatory and the Green Bank Observatory.\n\n"}
{"id": "16440850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16440850", "title": "3122 Florence", "text": "3122 Florence\n\n3122 Florence is a stony trinary asteroid of the Amor group. It is classified as a near-Earth object and potentially hazardous asteroid. It measures approximately 5 kilometers in diameter. It orbits the Sun at a distance of 1.0–2.5 AU once every 2 years and 4 months (859 days); the orbit has an eccentricity of 0.42 and an inclination of 22° with respect to the ecliptic. Florence has two moons.\n\nFlorence was discovered on 2 March 1981 by American astronomer Schelte J. \"Bobby\" Bus at Siding Spring Observatory. Its provisional designation was . It was named in honor of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing; the naming citation was published on 6 April, 1993 ().\n\nFlorence is classified as a potentially hazardous object because its minimum orbit intersection distance indicates that it has the potential to make close approaches to the Earth, and because measurements of its absolute magnitude suggest that it is large enough to create serious damage were it to impact.\n\nRadar observations during the 2017 flyby have shown that Florence has two moons. The inner of the two moons is estimated to have a diameter of 180 to 240 meters, the outer moon is between 300 and 360 meters across. Each moon is somewhat elongated, and both are tidally locked to the main body. They probably formed as loose material spun away from the main body as its rotation accelerated due to the YORP effect.\n\nThe inner moon's period orbiting Florence appears to be approximately 7 hours, while the outer moon completes a revolution in about 21 to 23 hours. The inner moon of Florence has the shortest orbital period of any of the moons of the 60 near-Earth asteroids known to have moons.\n\nFlorence is only the third known trinary asteroid in the near-Earth asteroid population, after and .\n\n from Earth, approximately eighteen times the average distance of the Moon. As seen from Earth, it brightened to apparent magnitude 8.5, and was visible in small telescopes for several nights as it moves south to north through the constellations Piscis Austrinus, Capricornus, Aquarius, and Delphinus. This was the asteroid's closest approach since 1890 and the closest until after 2500. Its previous flyby was on August 29, 1930, at a distance of 0.05239 AU and the next one will be on September 2, 2057, at 0.049952 AU.\n\nDuring the flyby, scientists studied Florence using the Arecibo Observatory and the Goldstone Deep Space Communications Complex, and discovered that it has two moons.\n\n"}
{"id": "37526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37526", "title": "433 Eros", "text": "433 Eros\n\nEros ( ; minor planet designation: 433 Eros), provisional designation , is a stony and elongated asteroid of the Amor group and the first discovered and second-largest near-Earth object with a mean-diameter of approximately 16.8 kilometers. Visited by the NEAR Shoemaker space probe in 1998, it became the first asteroid ever studied from orbit.\n\nThe eccentric asteroid was discovered by German astronomer Carl Gustav Witt at the Berlin Urania Observatory on 13 August 1898, and later named after Eros, a god from Greek mythology.\n\nEros was discovered on 13 August 1898, by Carl Gustav Witt at Berlin Urania Observatory and Auguste Charlois at Nice Observatory. Witt was taking a 2-hour exposure of Beta Aquarii to secure astrometric positions of asteroid 185 Eunike.\n\nDuring the opposition of 1900–1901, a worldwide program was launched to make parallax measurements of Eros to determine the solar parallax (or distance to the Sun), with the results published in 1910 by Arthur Hinks of Cambridge. A similar program was then carried out, during a closer approach, in 1930–1931 by Harold Spencer Jones. The value of the Astronomical Unit (roughly the Earth-Sun distance) obtained by this program was considered definitive until 1968, when radar and dynamical parallax methods started producing more precise measurements.\n\nEros was the first asteroid detected by the Arecibo Observatory's radar system.\n\nEros was one of the first asteroids visited by a spacecraft, the first one orbited, and the first one soft-landed on. NASA spacecraft NEAR Shoemaker entered orbit around Eros in 2000, and landed in 2001.\n\nEros is a Mars-crosser asteroid, the first known to come within the orbit of Mars. Objects in such an orbit can remain there for only a few hundred million years before the orbit is perturbed by gravitational interactions. Dynamical integrations suggest that Eros may evolve into an Earth-crosser within as short an interval as two million years, and has a roughly 50% chance of doing so over a time scale of 10–10 years. It is a potential Earth impactor, about five times larger than the impactor that created Chicxulub crater and led to the extinction of the dinosaurs.\n\nEros is named after the Greek god of love, Erōs. It is pronounced or sometimes . The rarely used adjectival form of the name is \"Erotian\" . Eros is also the first masculine name for an asteroid.\n\nThe NEAR Shoemaker probe visited Eros twice, first with a 1998 flyby, and then by orbiting it in 2000 when it extensively photographed its surface. On February 12, 2001, at the end of its mission, it landed on the asteroid's surface using its maneuvering jets.\n\nSurface gravity depends on the distance from a spot on the surface to the center of a body's mass. Eros's surface gravity varies greatly because Eros is not a sphere but an elongated peanut-shaped (or potato- or shoe-shaped) object. The daytime temperature on Eros can reach about at perihelion. Nighttime measurements fall near . Eros's density is 2.67 g/cm, about the same as the density of Earth's crust. It rotates once every 5.27 hours.\n\nNEAR scientists have found that most of the larger rocks strewn across Eros were ejected from a single crater in an impact approximately 1 billion years ago. (The crater involved was proposed to be named \"Shoemaker\", but is not recognized as such by the International Astronomical Union (IAU), and has been formally designated Charlois Regio.) This event may also be responsible for the 40 percent of the Erotian surface that is devoid of craters smaller than 0.5 kilometers across. It was originally thought that the debris thrown up by the collision filled in the smaller craters. An analysis of crater densities over the surface indicates that the areas with lower crater density are within 9 kilometers of the impact point. Some of the lower density areas were found on the opposite side of the asteroid but still within 9 kilometers.\n\nIt is theorized that seismic shockwaves propagated through the asteroid, shaking smaller craters into rubble. Since Eros is irregularly shaped, parts of the surface antipodal to the point of impact can be within 9 kilometres of the impact point (measured in a straight line through the asteroid) even though some intervening parts of the surface are more than 9 kilometres away in straight-line distance. A suitable analogy would be the distance from the top centre of a bun to the bottom centre as compared to the distance from the top centre to a point on the bun's circumference: top-to-bottom is a longer distance than top-to-periphery when measured along the surface but shorter than it in direct straight-line terms.\n\nCompression from the same impact is believed to have created the thrust fault Hinks Dorsum.\n\nData from the Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous spacecraft collected on Eros in December 1998 suggests that it could contain 20,000 billion kilograms of aluminum and similar amounts of metals that are rare on Earth, such as gold and platinum.\n\nOn January 31, 2012, Eros passed Earth at , about 70 times the distance to the Moon, with a visual magnitude of +8.1. During rare oppositions, every 81 years, such as in 1975 and 2056, Eros can reach a magnitude of +7.0, which is brighter than Neptune and brighter than any main-belt asteroid except 1 Ceres, 4 Vesta and, rarely, 2 Pallas and 7 Iris. Under this condition, the asteroid actually appears to stop, but unlike the normal condition for a body in heliocentric conjunction with Earth, its retrograde motion is very small. For example, in January and February 2137, it moves retrograde only 34 minutes in right ascension.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5692373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5692373", "title": "6AQ5", "text": "6AQ5\n\nThe 6AQ5 (Mullard–Philips tube designation EL90) is a miniature 7-pin (B7G) audio power output beam tetrode vacuum tube with ratings virtually identical to the 6V6 at 250V. It was commonly used as an output audio amplifier in tube TVs and radios. There are versions of this tube with extended ratings for industrial application which are designated as 6AQ5A (with controlled heater warm-up characteristic), and 6AQ5W/6005 or 6005W (shock and vibration resistant). \n\nA push–pull pair is capable of producing at least 10W audio output power in class AB1.\n\nOther close or equivalent tube types are: 6HG5, 6HR5, 6669, 6BM5, N727, CV1862 and the Tesla 6L31. The 6CM6, like the Russian 6P1P (6П1П), while electrically equivalent (up to 250 V anode voltage), have a 9 pin (B9A) base. Another similar, but not identical, amplifier pentode with a miniature 9-Pin base (B9A), used in consumer electronics was the 6M5.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30013713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30013713", "title": "Action off Charles Island", "text": "Action off Charles Island\n\nThe Action off Charles Island was a naval battle fought during the War of 1812 in the summer of 1813 off Charles Island in the Galapagos. An American squadron of three vessels attacked three British armed whalers, and captured them. The engagement was notable for being one of the few to occur in the Pacific Ocean during the war and involved United States Marine Lieutenant John M. Gamble, the first U.S. Marine to command an American warship.\n\nIn the War of 1812 between the United Kingdom and the United States, American Captain David Porter, in the thirty-six gun frigate , led a fleet of armed vessels in the South Pacific in a commerce raiding operation. At the time of the action, \"Essex\" was accompanied by two smaller vessels, recently captured from the British and classified as sloops-of-war by Captain Porter. They were the 10-gun of 338 tons burthen and the 8-gun of 280 tons burthen. Porter had sent the rest of his fleet to Valparaiso, Chile, to be sold while he and the remaining vessels patrolled for British whalers between Tumbes, Peru and the Galapagos.\n\nBecause Porter had entered the Pacific with no more than 350 American servicemen under his command, when he took prizes he could only place small skeleton crews in most of his ships. \"Georgiana\" had a complement of forty-two men under Mr. Adams, the \"Essex\"s chaplain, and \"Greenwich\" held only fourteen men under the command of Lieutenant Gamble, USMC.\n\nThere is some confusion as to the date of the battle; in later memoirs, Lieutenant Gamble recalled that it was fought on 12 or 13 July, while Captain Porter's memoir, and letters from Porter to Gamble, stated that it occurred on 14 July. Either way, at about 11:00 AM the Americans were sailing west from Tumbes, Peru, off Banks Bay (Bahia de Bancos) in the Galapagos, when they sighted three sets of sails on the horizon. Commodore Porter signaled his ships to prepare for action and a chase began. At the time, the majority of British ships cruising in the South Pacific were whalers sailing under letters of marque, legally permitting them to act as privateers should the opportunity arise.\n\nThe first British vessel Porter captured was the brig of ten guns. \"Charlton\" was sailing in the center of the three ships, and she surrendered to \"Essex\" without a fight as \"Greenwich\" and \"Georgiana\" went after .\n\n\"Seringapatam\" had made several whaling and sealing voyages to the South Atlantic and this area since 1800. She had a 41-man crew under the command of Captain William Stavers and was armed with fourteen 9-pounder guns. On this voyage she had captured one American whaler on the way to the whaling grounds.\n\nWhen escape seemed unlikely, \"Seringapatam\" changed course and appeared to be sailing to engage \"Greenwich\" but the latter came to a halt and waited for \"Georgiana\" to come up and provide assistance. At this point, as four men were transferred from \"Georgiana\" to \"Greenwich\", Captain Stavers chose to break off the attack and flee. Lieutenant Gamble closed the distance between the two ships and he first demanded that the British surrender. But when the Americans came within pistol range, \"Seringapatam\" raised her colors and fired a powerful broadside.\n\n\"Greenwich\" immediately returned fire with small arms and cannon, and for several moments the two vessels exchanged fire. American fire proved to be more accurate, and after taking heavy damage the British struck their colors and \"Greenwich\" ceased her firing. Just as Lieutenant Gamble was preparing to board the enemy, \"Seringapatam\" attempted another escape. Gamble ordered his men to resume shooting at the sails of the British vessel and eventually brought her to a halt. Meanwhile, \"Essex\" had finished pursuing the small 8-gun and captured her without difficulty. Captain Porter then assisted in chasing down \"Seringapatam\".\n\nAmerican sources make no mention of casualties on either side, though \"Greenwich\" sustained some damage and \"Seringapatam\" was crippled. Porter took 89 prisoners in all, and the American ships were already filled with captives, so the Americans disarmed \"Charlton\", loaded her with 48 of the prisoners, and sent her to Rio de Janeiro as a cartel with the prisoners under parole with orders to surrender to the first American authority they encountered. \"Lloyd's List\" reported that \"Essex\" had captured \"Seringapatam\", Stavers, master; \"New Zealander\", Donneman, master; and \"Charlton\", Halcrow, master.\n\nCaptain Stavers, when asked to surrender his privateer's commission, revealed that though he had applied for a letter of marque, he had not yet received one, but that it was probably waiting for him in Lima. Captain Porter announced that Stavers would be taken to the United States and be tried as a pirate, and ordered him and his crew to be put in irons. They were given more freedom after some liberated American whalers told Porter that the British had treated them well during their time as prisoners aboard \"Seringapatam\".\n\nThe American press declared \"Seringapatam\" to have been a formidable threat to American commerce in the Pacific, making Lieutenant Gamble famous, with the consequence that he received many letters of congratulations from naval officers. \"Seringapatam\" was found to have carried up to 30,000 dollars worth of armaments and provisions. Gamble was promoted to captain and died in 1836 as a lieutenant colonel. However, despite a petition to the U.S. Congress, he never received any prize money for the capture or his subsequent service. Following the engagement, Captain Porter made for Nuku Hiva in the Marquesas where he built America's first base in the Pacific and repaired his ships. He then sailed off, leaving \"Greenwich\", \"Seringapatam\", and another prize, , behind. It was after his departure that the \"Seringapatam\" Mutiny occurred. The mutineers and British prisoners-of-war recaptured \"Seringapatam\" and sailed her to Australia, from where she was returned to her owners. Gamble burned \"Greenwich\" before leaving Nuka Hiva in \"Sir Andrew Hammond\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53691736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53691736", "title": "Beth Aala", "text": "Beth Aala\n\nBeth Aala is a three-time award winning American documentary filmmaker and film producer.\n\nAala's parents emigrated from the Philippines to the United States, where she was born. She attended Elk Grove High School in Sacramento. Aala received a bachelor's degree from UC San Diego in both Visual Arts and Communication.\n\nAala is best known for her 2013 film, \",\" which she co-directed and produced with comedian Mike Myers.\n\nShe was the codirector, with Susan Froemke and John Hoffman, of the film \"Rancher, Farmer, Fisherman,\" which premiered at the Sundance film festival in 2017.\n\nIn 2005, Aala won an Emmy Award for co-producing \"I Have Tourette's but Tourette's Doesn't Have Me.\" She also received Emmys for producing in the \"Outstanding Children's Program\" category in 2008 and 2011.\n\nIn 2006, she won a Peabody Award for co-producing the film \"The Music in Me.\"\n"}
{"id": "344775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344775", "title": "Earthenware", "text": "Earthenware\n\nEarthenware is glazed or unglazed nonvitreous pottery that has normally been fired below 1200°C. Porcelain, bone china and stoneware, all fired at high enough temperatures to vitrify, are the main other important types of pottery.\n\nEarthenware comprisesmost building bricks, nearly all European pottery up to the seventeenth century, most of the wares of Egypt, Persia and the near East; Greek, Roman and Mediterranean, and some of the Chinese; and the fine earthenware which forms the greater part of our tableware today.Pit fired earthenware dates back to as early as 29,000–25,000 BC, and for millennia, only earthenware pottery was made, with stoneware gradually developing some 5,000 years ago, but then apparently disappearing for a few thousand years. Outside East Asia, porcelain was manufactured only from the 18th century AD, and then initially as an expensive luxury.\n\nAfter it is fired, earthenware is opaque and non-vitreous, soft and capable of being scratched with a knife. The Combined Nomenclature of the European Communities describes it as being made of selected clays sometimes mixed with feldspars and varying amounts of other minerals, and white or light-colored (i.e., slightly greyish, cream, or ivory).\n\nGenerally, earthenware bodies exhibit higher plasticity than most whiteware bodies and hence are easier to shape by RAM press, roller-head or potter's wheel than bone china or porcelain.\n\nDue to its porosity, earthenware, with a water absorption of 5-8%, must be glazed to be watertight. Earthenware has lower mechanical strength than bone china, porcelain or stoneware, and consequently articles are commonly made in thicker cross-section, although they are still more easily chipped.\n\nDarker-colored terracotta earthenware, typically orange or red due to a comparatively high content of iron oxide, are widely used for flower pots, tiles and some decorative and oven ware.\n\nA general body formulation for contemporary earthenware is 25% kaolin, 25% ball clay, 35% quartz and 15% feldspar.\nModern earthenware may be biscuit (or \"bisque\") fired to temperatures between and glost-fired (or \"glaze-fired\") to between , the usual practice in factories and some studio potteries. Some studio potters follow the reverse practice, with a low-temperature biscuit firing and a high-temperature glost firing. The firing schedule will be determined by the raw materials used and the desired characteristics of the finished ware.\n\nHistorically, such high temperatures were unattainable in most cultures and periods until modern times, though Chinese ceramics were far ahead of other cultures in this respect. Earthenware can be produced at firing temperatures as low as and many clays will not fire successfully above about . Much historical pottery was fired somewhere around , giving a wide margin of error where there was no precise way of measuring temperature, and very variable conditions within the kiln. \n\nAfter firing, most earthenware bodies will be colored white, buff or red. For red earthenware, the firing temperature affects the color of the clay body. Lower temperatures produce a typical red terracotta color; higher temperatures will make the clay brown or even black. Higher firing temperatures may cause earthenware to bloat.\n\nThere are several types of earthenware, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "661185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=661185", "title": "Ebisu (mythology)", "text": "Ebisu (mythology)\n\n, also transliterated or called or , is the Japanese god of fishermen and luck. He is one of the , and the only one of the seven to originate purely from Japan without any Hindu influence.\n\nIn medieval times, Ebisu's origin came to be tied together with that of \"Hiruko\" - the first child of Izanagi and Izanami, born without bones (or, in some stories, without arms and legs) due to his mother's transgression during the marriage ritual. Hiruko struggled to survive but, as he could not stand, he was cast into the sea in a boat of reeds before his third birthday. The story tells that Hiruko eventually washed ashore—possibly in —and was cared for by the Ainu . It is however believed that Ebisu first arose as a god among fishermen and that his origin as Hiruko was a much later conception, after the worship of him had spread to merchants and others. It is also theorized that he was originally a god known as \"Kotoronushi no Mikoto\", son of Ōkuninushi.\n\nThe weak child overcame many hardships, grew legs (and, presumably, the rest of his skeletal structure) at the age of three, and became the god Ebisu. He remains slightly crippled and deaf, but mirthful and auspicious nonetheless (hence the title, \"The laughing god\"). He is often depicted wearing a tall hat—the —holding a rod and a large red sea bream or sea bass. Jellyfish are also associated with the god and the fugu restaurants of Japan will often incorporate Ebisu in their motif.\n\nEbisu's festival is celebrated on the twentieth day of the tenth month, \"Kannazuki\" (the month without gods). While the other myriad of members of the Japanese pantheon gather at The Grand Shrine of Izumo, Ebisu does not hear the summons and is thus still available for worship.\n\nEbisu is frequently paired with Daikokuten, another of the seven gods of Fortune, in displays of the twin patrons by small shopkeepers. In some versions of the myth they are father and son (or master and apprentice). Also, these two are often joined by Fukurokuju as the \"Three Gods of Good Fortune\".\n\nAs a form of animal worshipping, Ebisu was often referred to marine megafaunas such as whales and whale sharks (hence being also called as \"Ebisu-Shark\") that bring mass of fish and protect fishermen.\n\nEbisu is depicted or parodied in a wide range of media, from artwork to costumed impersonations at local festivals and in commercial logos and advertisements. One of the most widely recognized product logos is in association with Yebisu beer, which was first brewed in 1890, and is currently brewed by Sapporo Brewery.\n\nEbisu is the basis of the name of the clothing brand Evisu.\n"}
{"id": "57731730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57731730", "title": "Ecological unit", "text": "Ecological unit\n\nEcological units, comprise concepts such as population, community, and - in particular - the ecosystem as the basic unit, which are at the basis of ecological theory and research. Two common traits can be identified across cultures:\n\n"}
{"id": "41362614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41362614", "title": "FIG World Rankings", "text": "FIG World Rankings\n\nThe FIG World Rankings is a system determining a list of the World's best gymnasts competing on the Artistic Gymnastics World Cup. A separate World ranking system is also used for Rhythmic Gymnastics.\n\nThroughout the year, there are Challenge and Challenger World Cups for CII (all-around) and CIII (events) formats. A win on each event is a maximum of 50 points for a World Cup competition and 30 points for a World Challenge Cup competition.\n\nNote: Only the top three scores counted per gymnast.\n\nNote: Only the top three scores counted per gymnast.\n"}
{"id": "37395302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37395302", "title": "Factorization of the mean", "text": "Factorization of the mean\n\nThree-dimensional model typically are unmanageable or demand huge computational efforts when applied to natural-scale geophysical mass flows, which can involve masses as large as formula_1 to formula_2 formula_3. One way to make the problem more tractable is to assume that flows are long (or wide) relative to their depth, and to use depth-averaging in the direction normal to the sliding surface. This dramatically reduces the complexity associated with the flow from three-dimension to virtually shallow flow so that the computational cost is very low.\n\nThis is achieved by using the concept of factorization of the mean. This is a very fundamental concept widely accepted and used in shallow flow modelling, including the shallow water flow, granular avalanches, debris flows, flash flood, tsunami and other type geophysical mass flows. It is assumed that the average of a product is approximated by the product of the averages. This simplification and approximation has great contributions in depth averaging the mass and momentum balance equations and associated expressions in mass flow modellings. This allows, for example, approximating the velocities by their means. This is mainly based on the observed phenomena that in smooth gravity- or pressure-driven geophysical and industrial mass flows, the momentum transfer in the direction normal to the main flow direction is negligible. Or in other words, the aspect ratio (typical flow depth divided by typical flow extent) is very small, or to say equivalently, the flow depth is much smaller than a typical wave length (long wave approximation).\n"}
{"id": "378436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378436", "title": "Foot washing", "text": "Foot washing\n\nMaundy (from the Vulgate of John 13:34 \"mandatum\" meaning \"command\"), or the Washing of the Feet, is a religious rite observed by various Christian denominations. The name is taken from the first few Latin words sung at the ceremony of the washing of the feet, \"Mandatum novum do vobis ut diligatis invicem sicut dilexi vos\" (\"I give you a new commandment, That ye love one another as I have loved you\") (), and from the Latin form of the commandment of Christ that we should imitate His loving humility in the washing of the feet (). The term \"mandatum\" (maundy), therefore, was applied to the rite of foot-washing on this day of the Christian Holy Week called Maundy Thursday.\n\nJohn 13:1–17 recounts Jesus' performance of this act. In verses 13:14–17, He instructs His disciples:\n\nMany denominations (including Anglicans, Lutherans, Methodists, Presbyterians, Mennonites, and Catholics) therefore observe the liturgical washing of the feet on Maundy Thursday of Holy Week. Moreover, for some denominations, foot-washing was an example, a pattern. Many groups throughout Church history and many modern denominations have practiced foot washing as a church ordinance including Adventists, Anabaptists, Baptists, and Pentecostals.\n\nThe origin of the word \"Maundy\" has at least two possibilities:\n\nThe root of this practice appears to be found in the hospitality customs of ancient civilizations, especially where sandals were the chief footwear. A host would provide water for guests to wash their feet, provide a servant to wash the feet of the guests or even serve the guests by washing their feet. This is mentioned in several places in the Old Testament of the Bible (e.g. Genesis ; ; ; ; I Samuel ; et al.), as well as other religious and historical documents. A typical Eastern host might bow, greet, and kiss his guest, then offer water to allow the guest to wash his feet or have servants do it. Though the wearing of sandals might necessitate washing the feet, the water was also offered as a courtesy even when shoes were worn.\n\nI Samuel is the first biblical passage where an honored person offers to wash feet as a sign of humility. In John 12, Mary of Bethany anointed Jesus' feet presumably in gratitude for raising her brother Lazarus from the dead, and in preparation for his death and burial. The Bible records washing of the saint's feet being practised by the primitive church in I Timothy perhaps in reference to piety, submission and/or humility. There are several names for this practice: \"maundy\", \"foot washing\", \"washing the saints' feet\", \"pedilavium\", and \"mandatum\".\n\nChristian denominations that observe foot washing do so on the basis of the authoritative example and command of Jesus as found in (NKJV):\n\nJesus demonstrates the custom of the time when he comments on the lack of hospitality in one Pharisees home by not providing water to wash his feet in Luke 7:44:\n\nThe rite of foot washing finds its roots in scripture. Even after the death of the apostles or the end of the Apostolic Age, the practice was continued.\n\nIt appears to have been practiced in the early centuries of post-apostolic Christianity, though the evidence is scant. For example, Tertullian (145–220) mentions the practice in his \"De Corona\", but gives no details as to who practiced it or how it was practiced. It was practiced by the Church at Milan (c. 380), is mentioned by the \"Council of Elvira\" (300), and is even referenced by Augustine (c. 400).\n\nObservance of foot washing at the time of baptism was maintained in Africa, Gaul, Germany, Milan, northern Italy, and Ireland.\n\nAccording to the \"Mennonite Encyclopedia\" \"St. Benedict's \"Rule\" (529) for the Benedictine Order prescribed hospitality feetwashing in addition to a communal feetwashing for humility\"; a statement confirmed by the Catholic Encyclopedia. It apparently was established in the Roman church, though not in connection with baptism, by the 8th century.\n\nThe Albigenses observed footwashing in connection with communion, and the Waldenses' custom was to wash the feet of visiting ministers.\n\nThere is some evidence that it was observed by the early Hussites; and the practice was a meaningful part of the 16th century radical reformation. Foot washing was often \"rediscovered\" or \"restored\" by Protestants in revivals of religion in which the participants tried to recreate the faith and practice of the apostolic era which they had abandoned or lost.\n\nIn Catholic Church, the ritual washing of feet is now associated with the Mass of the Lord's Supper, which celebrates in a special way the Last Supper of Jesus, before which he washed the feet of his twelve apostles.\n\nEvidence for the practice on this day goes back at least to the latter half of the 12th century, when \"the pope washed the feet of twelve sub-deacons after his Mass and of thirteen poor men after his dinner.\" From 1570 to 1955, the Roman Missal printed, after the text of the Holy Thursday Mass, a rite of washing of feet unconnected with the Mass. For many years Pius IX performed the foot washing in the sala over the portico of Saint Peter's, Rome.\n\nIn 1955 Pope Pius XII revised the ritual and inserted it into the Mass. Since then, the rite is celebrated after the homily that follows the reading of the gospel account of how Jesus washed the feet of his twelve apostles (). Some persons who have been selected – usually twelve, but the Roman Missal does not specify the number – are led to chairs prepared in a suitable place. The priest goes to each and, with the help of the ministers, pours water over each one's feet and dries them. There are some advocates of restricting this ritual to clergy or at least men.\n\nIn a notable break from the 1955 norms, Pope Francis washed the feet of two women and Muslims at a juvenile detention center in Rome 2013. In 2016 it was announced that the Roman Missal had been revised to permit women to have their feet washed on Maundy Thursday; previously it permitted only males to do so. In 2016 Catholic priests around the world washed both women’s and men’s feet on Holy Thursday \"their gesture of humility represented to many the progress of inclusion in the Catholic church.\"\n\nAt one time, most of the European monarchs also performed the Washing of Feet in their royal courts on Maundy Thursday, a practice continued by the Austro-Hungarian Emperor and the King of Spain up to the beginning of the 20th century (see Royal Maundy). In 1181 Roger de Moulins, Grand Master of the Knights Hospitaller issued a statute declaring, \"In Lent every Saturday, they are accustomed to celebrate maundy for thirteen poor persons, and to wash their feet, and to give to each a shirt and new breeches and new shoes, and to three chaplains, or to three clerics out of the thirteen, three deniers and to each of the others, two deniers\".\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches practice the ritual of the Washing of Feet on Holy and Great Thursday (Maundy Thursday) according to their ancient rites. The service may be performed either by a bishop, washing the feet of twelve priests; or by an Hegumen (Abbot) washing the feet of twelve members of the brotherhood of his monastery. The ceremony takes place at the end of the Divine Liturgy.\n\nAfter Holy Communion, and before the dismissal, the brethren all go in procession to the place where the Washing of Feet is to take place (it may be in the center of the nave, in the narthex, or a location outside). After a psalm and some troparia (hymns) an ektenia (litany) is recited, and the bishop or abbot reads a prayer. Then the deacon reads the account in the Gospel of John, while the clergy perform the roles of Christ and his apostles as each action is chanted by the deacon. The deacon stops when the dialogue between Jesus and Peter begins. The senior-ranking clergyman among those whose feet are being washed speaks the words of Peter, and the bishop or abbot speaks the words of Jesus. Then the bishop or abbot himself concludes the reading of the Gospel, after which he says another prayer and sprinkles all of those present with the water that was used for the foot washing. The procession then returns to the church and the final dismissal is given as normal.\n\nFoot washing rites are also observed in the Oriental Orthodox churches on Maundy Thursday.\n\nIn the Coptic Orthodox Church the service is performed by the parish priest. He blesses the water for the foot washing with the cross, just as he would for blessing holy water and he washes the feet of the entire congregation.\n\nIn the Syrian Orthodox Church, this service is performed by a bishop or priest. There will be some 12 selected men, both priests and the lay people, and the bishop or priest will wash and kiss the feet of those 12 men. It is not merely a dramatization of the past event. Further it is a prayer where the whole congregation prays to wash and cleanse them of their sins.\n\nFoot washing is observed by numerous Protestant and proto-Protestant groups, including Seventh-day Adventist, Pentecostal, and Pietistic groups, some Anabaptists, and several types of Southern Baptists.\nFoot washing rites are also practiced by many Anglican, Lutheran and Methodist churches, whereby foot washing is most often experienced in connection with Maundy Thursday services and, sometimes, at ordination services where the Bishop may wash the feet of those who are to be ordained. Though history shows that foot washing has at times been practiced in connection with baptism, and at times as a separate occasion, by far its most common practice has been in connection with the Lord's supper service. The Moravian Church practiced Foot Washing until 1818. There has been some revival of the practice as other liturgical churches have also rediscovered the practice.\n\nThe observance of \"washing the saints' feet\" is quite varied, but a typical service follows the partaking of unleavened bread and wine. Deacons (in many cases) place pans of water in front of pews that have been arranged for the service. The men and women participate in separate groups, men washing men's feet and women washing women's feet. Each member of the congregation takes a turn washing the feet of another member. Each foot is placed one at a time into the basin of water, is washed by cupping the hand and pouring water over the foot, and is dried with a long towel girded around the waist of the member performing the washing. Most of these services appear to be quite moving to the participants.\n\nAmong groups that do not observe foot washing as an ordinance or rite, the example of Jesus is usually held to be symbolic and didactic. Among these groups, foot washing is nevertheless sometimes literally practiced. First, some reserve it to be a practice of hospitality or a work of necessity. Secondly, some present it as a dramatic lesson acted out in front of the congregation.\n\nGroups descending from the 1708 Schwarzenau Brethren, such as the Grace Brethren, Church of the Brethren, Brethren Church, Old German Baptist Brethren, and the Dunkard Brethren regularly practice foot washing (generally called \"feetwashing\") as one of three ordinances that compose their Lovefeast, the others being the Eucharist and a fellowship meal. Historically related groups such as the Amish and most Mennonites also wash feet, tracing the practice to the 1632 Dordrecht Confession of Faith. For members, this practice promotes humility towards and care for others, resulting in a higher egalitarianism among members.\n\nMany Baptists observe the literal washing of feet as a third ordinance. The communion and foot washing service is practiced regularly by members of the Separate Baptists in Christ, General Association of Baptists, Free Will Baptists, Primitive Baptists, Union Baptists, Old Regular Baptist, Christian Baptist Church of God, and Brethren in Christ. Feet washing is also practiced as a third ordinance by many Southern Baptists, General Baptists, and Independent Baptists.\n\nIn the mid-1830s, Joseph Smith introduced the original temple rites of the Latter Day Saint movement in Kirtland, Ohio, which primarily involved foot washing, followed by speaking in tongues and visions. This foot washing took place exclusively among men, and was based upon the Old and New Testament. After Joseph Smith was initiated into the first three degrees of Freemasonry, this was adapted into the whole body \"Endowment\" ritual more similar to contemporary Mormon practice, which is nearly identical to Masonic temple rites, and does not specifically involve the feet.\n\nIn 1843, Smith included a foot washing element in the faith's second anointing ceremony in which elite married couples are anointed as heavenly monarchs and priests.\n\nThe True Jesus Church includes footwashing as a scriptural sacrament based on . Like the other two sacraments, namely Baptism and the Lord's Supper, members of the church believe that footwashing imparts salvific grace to the recipient—in this case, to have a part with Christ ().\n\nMost Church of God denominations also include footwashing in their Passover ceremony as instructed by Jesus in John 13:1–11.\n\nMost Seventh-day Adventist congregations schedule an opportunity for foot washing preceding each quarterly (four times a year) Communion service. As with their \"open\" Communion, all believers in attendance, not just members or pastors, are invited to share in the washing of feet with another: men with men, women with women, and frequently, spouse with spouse. This service is alternatively called the Ordinance of Foot-Washing or the Ordinance of Humility. Its primary purpose is to renew the cleansing that only comes from Christ, but secondarily to seek and celebrate reconciliation with another member before Communion/the Lord's Supper.\n\nA number of Jewish rabbis who disagree with the initiation custom of \"brit milah\", or circumcision of a male baby, instead have offered \"brit shalom\", or a multi-part naming ceremony which eschews circumcision. One portion of the ritual, \"Brit rechitzah\", involves the washing of the baby's feet.\n\n\n\nsee also\n\n"}
{"id": "12367938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12367938", "title": "Fraser Plateau and Basin complex (WWF ecoregion)", "text": "Fraser Plateau and Basin complex (WWF ecoregion)\n\nThe Fraser Plateau and Basin Complex is an ecoregion, as defined by the World Wildlife Fund. It encompasses the middle reaches of the watershed of the Fraser River as it traverses the northern part of the Interior Plateau of British Columbia. The WWF ecoregion is similar in description to two of the ecoregions within Environment Canada's \"Montane Cordillera Ecozone:\" \"The Fraser Basin\" and the \"Fraser Plateau.\" Much of the Fraser Plateau is underlain by volcanic rocks which have steep escarpments along rivers and creeks and almost flat upper surfaces.\n\nPhysiographically, the Fraser Basin is a section of the larger Northern Plateaus province, which in turn is part of the larger Intermontane Plateaus physiographic division.\n\n"}
{"id": "51143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51143", "title": "Giant-impact hypothesis", "text": "Giant-impact hypothesis\n\nThe giant-impact hypothesis, sometimes called the Big Splash, or the Theia Impact suggests that the Moon formed out of the debris left over from a collision between Earth and an astronomical body the size of Mars, approximately 4.5 billion years ago, in the Hadean eon; about 20 to 100 million years after the solar system coalesced. The colliding body is sometimes called Theia, from the name of the mythical Greek Titan who was the mother of Selene, the goddess of the Moon. Analysis of lunar rocks, published in a 2016 report, suggests that the impact may have been a direct hit, causing a thorough mixing of both parent bodies.\n\nThe giant impact hypothesis is currently the favored scientific hypothesis for the formation of the Moon. Supporting evidence includes:\n\n\nHowever, there remain several questions concerning the best current models of the giant-impact hypothesis. The energy of such a giant impact is predicted to have heated Earth to produce a global magma ocean, and evidence of the resultant planetary differentiation of the heavier material sinking into Earth's mantle has been documented. However, there is no self-consistent model that starts with the giant-impact event and follows the evolution of the debris into a single moon. Other remaining questions include when the Moon lost its share of volatile elements and why Venus—which experienced giant impacts during its formation—does not host a similar moon.\n\nIn 1898, George Darwin made the suggestion that the Earth and Moon were once a single body. Darwin's hypothesis was that a molten Moon had been spun from the Earth because of centrifugal forces, and this became the dominant academic explanation. Using Newtonian mechanics, he calculated that the Moon had orbited much more closely in the past and was drifting away from the Earth. This drifting was later confirmed by American and Soviet experiments, using laser ranging targets placed on the Moon.\n\nNonetheless, Darwin's calculations could not resolve the mechanics required to trace the Moon backward to the surface of the Earth. In 1946, Reginald Aldworth Daly of Harvard University challenged Darwin's explanation, adjusting it to postulate that the creation of the Moon was caused by an impact rather than centrifugal forces. Little attention was paid to Professor Daly's challenge until a conference on satellites in 1974, during which the idea was reintroduced and later published and discussed in \"Icarus\" in 1975 by Drs. William K. Hartmann and Donald R. Davis. Their models suggested that, at the end of the planet formation period, several satellite-sized bodies had formed that could collide with the planets or be captured. They proposed that one of these objects may have collided with the Earth, ejecting refractory, volatile-poor dust that could coalesce to form the Moon. This collision could potentially explain the unique geological and geochemical properties of the Moon.\n\nA similar approach was taken by Canadian astronomer Alastair G. W. Cameron and American astronomer William R. Ward, who suggested that the Moon was formed by the tangential impact upon Earth of a body the size of Mars. It is hypothesized that most of the outer silicates of the colliding body would be vaporized, whereas a metallic core would not. Hence, most of the collisional material sent into orbit would consist of silicates, leaving the coalescing Moon deficient in iron. The more volatile materials that were emitted during the collision probably would escape the Solar System, whereas silicates would tend to coalesce.\n\nThe name of the hypothesized protoplanet is derived from the mythical Greek titan Theia , who gave birth to the Moon goddess Selene. This designation was proposed initially by the English geochemist Alex N. Halliday in 2000 and has become accepted in the scientific community. According to modern theories of planet formation, Theia was part of a population of Mars-sized bodies that existed in the Solar System 4.5 billion years ago. One of the attractive features of the giant-impact hypothesis is that the formation of the Moon and Earth align; during the course of its formation, the Earth is thought to have experienced dozens of collisions with planet-sized bodies. The Moon-forming collision would have been only one such \"giant impact\" but certainly the last significant impactor event. The Late Heavy Bombardment by much smaller asteroids occurred later - approximately 3.9 billion years ago.\n\nAstronomers think the collision between Earth and Theia happened at about 4.4 to 4.45 bya; about 0.1 billion years after the Solar System began to form. In astronomical terms, the impact would have been of moderate velocity. Theia is thought to have struck the Earth at an oblique angle when the Earth was nearly fully formed. Computer simulations of this \"late-impact\" scenario suggest an impact angle of about 45° and an initial impactor velocity below 4 km/s. However, oxygen isotope abundance in lunar rock suggests \"vigorous mixing\" of Theia and Earth, indicating a steep impact angle. Theia's iron core would have sunk into the young Earth's core, and most of Theia's mantle accreted onto the Earth's mantle. However, a significant portion of the mantle material from both Theia and the Earth would have been ejected into orbit around the Earth (if ejected with velocities between orbital velocity and escape velocity) or into individual orbits around the sun (if ejected at higher velocities). The material in orbits around the Earth quickly coalesced into the Moon (possibly within less than a month, but in no more than a century). The material in orbits around the sun stayed on its Kepler orbits, which are stable in space, and was thus likely to hit the earth-moon system sometime later (because the Earth-Moon system's Kepler orbit around the sun also remains stable). Estimates based on computer simulations of such an event suggest that some twenty percent of the original mass of Theia would have ended up as an orbiting ring of debris around the Earth, and about half of this matter coalesced into the Moon.\nThe Earth would have gained significant amounts of angular momentum and mass from such a collision. Regardless of the speed and tilt of the Earth's rotation before the impact, it would have experienced a day some five hours long after the impact, and the Earth's equator and the Moon's orbit would have become coplanar.\n\nNot all of the ring material need have been swept up right away: the thickened crust of the Moon's far side suggests the possibility that a second moon about 1,000  km in diameter formed in a Lagrange point of the Moon. The smaller moon may have remained in orbit for tens of millions of years. As the two moons migrated outward from the Earth, solar tidal effects would have made the Lagrange orbit unstable, resulting in a slow-velocity collision that \"pancaked\" the smaller moon onto what is now the far side of the Moon, adding material to its crust.\nLunar magma cannot pierce through the thick crust of the far side, causing lesser lunar maria, while the near side has a thin crust displaying the large maria visible from Earth.\n\nIn 2001, a team at the Carnegie Institution of Washington reported that the rocks from the Apollo program carried an isotopic signature that was identical with rocks from Earth, and were different from almost all other bodies in the Solar System.\n\nIn 2014, a team in Germany reported that the Apollo samples had a slightly different isotopic signature from Earth rocks. The difference was slight, but statistically significant. One possible explanation is that Theia formed near the Earth.\n\nIn 2007, researchers from the California Institute of Technology showed that the likelihood of Theia having an identical isotopic signature as the Earth was very small (less than 1 percent). They proposed that in the aftermath of the giant impact, while the Earth and the proto-lunar disk were molten and vaporized, the two reservoirs were connected by a common silicate vapor atmosphere and that the Earth– Moon system became homogenized by convective stirring while the system existed in the form of a continuous fluid. Such an \"equilibration\" between the post-impact Earth and the proto-lunar disk is the only proposed scenario that explains the isotopic similarities of the Apollo rocks with rocks from the Earth's interior. For this scenario to be viable, however, the proto-lunar disk would have to endure for about 100 years. Work is ongoing to determine whether or not this is possible.\nFurther modelling of the transient structure has given rise to the concept of a synestia, a doughnut-shaped body that existed for a century before it cooled down and gave birth to the Earth and the moon.\n\nIndirect evidence for the giant impact scenario comes from rocks collected during the Apollo Moon landings, which show oxygen isotope ratios nearly identical to those of Earth. The highly anorthositic composition of the lunar crust, as well as the existence of KREEP-rich samples, suggest that a large portion of the Moon once was molten; and a giant impact scenario could easily have supplied the energy needed to form such a magma ocean. Several lines of evidence show that if the Moon has an iron-rich core, it must be a small one. In particular, the mean density, moment of inertia, rotational signature, and magnetic induction response of the Moon all suggest that the radius of its core is less than about 25% the radius of the Moon, in contrast to about 50% for most of the other terrestrial bodies. Appropriate impact conditions satisfying the angular momentum constraints of the Earth– Moon system yield a Moon formed mostly from the mantles of the Earth and the impactor, while the core of the impactor accretes to the Earth. It is noteworthy that the Earth has the highest density of all the planets in the Solar system; the absorption of the core of the impactor body explains this observation, given the proposed properties of the early Earth and Theia.\n\nComparison of the zinc isotopic composition of Lunar samples with that of Earth and Mars rocks provides further evidence for the impact hypothesis. Zinc is strongly fractionated when volatilized in planetary rocks, but not during normal igneous processes, so zinc abundance and isotopic composition can distinguish the two geological processes. Moon rocks contain more heavy isotopes of zinc, and overall less zinc, than corresponding igneous Earth or Mars rocks, which is consistent with zinc being depleted from the Moon through evaporation, as expected for the giant impact origin.\n\nCollisions between ejecta escaping Earth's gravity and asteroids would have left impact heating signatures in stony meteorites; analysis based on assuming the existence of this effect has been used to date the impact event to 4.47 billion years ago, in agreement with the date obtained by other means.\n\nWarm silica-rich dust and abundant SiO gas, products of high velocity (> 10  km/s) impacts between rocky bodies, have been detected by the Spitzer Space Telescope around the nearby (29 pc distant) young (~12 My old) star HD172555 in the Beta Pictoris moving group. A belt of warm dust in a zone between 0.25AU and 2AU from the young star HD 23514 in the Pleiades cluster appears similar to the predicted results of Theia's collision with the embryonic Earth, and has been interpreted as the result of planet-sized objects colliding with each other. A similar belt of warm dust was detected around the star BD +20°307 (HIP 8920, SAO 75016).\n\nThis lunar origin hypothesis has some difficulties that have yet to be resolved. For example, the giant-impact hypothesis implies that a surface magma ocean would have formed following the impact. Yet there is no evidence that the Earth ever had such a magma ocean and it is likely there exists material that has never been processed in a magma ocean.\n\nA number of compositional inconsistencies need to be addressed.\n\n\nIf the Moon was formed by such an impact, it is possible that other inner planets also may have been subjected to comparable impacts. A moon that formed around Venus by this process would have been unlikely to escape. If such a moon-forming event had occurred there, a possible explanation of why the planet does not have such a moon might be that a second collision occurred that countered the angular momentum from the first impact. Another possibility is that the strong tidal forces from the Sun would tend to destabilize the orbits of moons around close-in planets. For this reason, if Venus's slow rotation rate began early in its history, any satellites larger than a few kilometers in diameter would likely have spiraled inwards and collided with Venus.\n\nSimulations of the chaotic period of terrestrial planet formation suggest that impacts like those hypothesized to have formed the Moon were common. For typical terrestrial planets with a mass of 0.5 to 1 Earth masses, such an impact typically results in a single moon containing 4% of the host planet's mass. The inclination of the resulting moon's orbit is random, but this tilt affects the subsequent dynamic evolution of the system. For example, some orbits may cause the moon to spiral back into the planet. Likewise, the proximity of the planet to the star will also affect the orbital evolution. The net effect is that it is more likely for impact-generated moons to survive when they orbit more distant terrestrial planets and are aligned with the planetary orbit.\n\nIn 2004, Princeton University mathematician Edward Belbruno and astrophysicist J. Richard Gott III proposed that Theia coalesced at the or Lagrangian point relative to Earth (in about the same orbit and about 60° ahead or behind), similar to a trojan asteroid. Two-dimensional computer models suggest that the stability of Theia's proposed trojan orbit would have been affected when its growing mass exceeded a threshold of approximately 10% of the Earth's mass (the mass of Mars). In this scenario, gravitational perturbations by planetesimals caused Theia to depart from its stable Lagrangian location, and subsequent interactions with proto-Earth led to a collision between the two bodies.\n\nIn 2008, evidence was presented that suggests that the collision may have occurred later than the accepted value of 4.53 Gya, at approximately 4.48 Gya. A 2014 comparison of computer simulations with elemental abundance measurements in the Earth's mantle indicated that the collision occurred approximately 95 My after the formation of the Solar System.\n\nIt has been suggested that other significant objects may have been created by the impact, which could have remained in orbit between the Earth and Moon, stuck in Lagrangian points. Such objects may have stayed within the Earth–Moon system for as long as 100 million years, until the gravitational tugs of other planets destabilized the system enough to free the objects. A study published in 2011 suggested that a subsequent collision between the Moon and one of these smaller bodies caused the notable differences in physical characteristics between the two hemispheres of the Moon. This collision, simulations have supported, would have been at a low enough velocity so as not to form a crater; instead, the material from the smaller body would have spread out across the Moon (in what would become its far side), adding a thick layer of highlands crust. The resulting mass irregularities would subsequently produce a gravity gradient that resulted in tidal locking of the Moon so that today, only the near side remains visible from Earth. However, mapping by the GRAIL mission has apparently ruled out this scenario.\n\nThe giant-impact hypothesis fails to properly explain the similar composition of Earth and the Moon. Especially, the indistinguishable relation of oxygen isotopes cannot be explained by the classical form of this hypothesis. According to research on the subject that is based on new simulations at the University of Bern by physicist Andreas Reufer and his colleagues, Theia collided directly with Earth instead of barely swiping it. The collision speed may have been higher than originally assumed, and this higher velocity may have totally destroyed Theia. According to this modification, the composition of Theia is not so restricted, making a composition of up to 50% water ice possible.\n\nOther mechanisms that have been suggested at various times for the Moon's origin are that the Moon was spun off from the Earth's molten surface by centrifugal force; that it was formed elsewhere and was subsequently captured by the Earth's gravitational field; or that the Earth and the Moon formed at the same time and place from the same accretion disk. None of these hypotheses can account for the high angular momentum of the Earth-Moon system.\n\nAnother hypothesis attributes the formation of the Moon to the impact of a large asteroid with the Earth much later than previously thought, creating the satellite primarily from debris from Earth. In this hypothesis, the formation of the Moon occurs 60–140 million years after the formation of the Solar System. Previously, the age of the Moon had been thought to be 4.527 ± 0.010 billion years. The impact in this scenario would have created a magma ocean on Earth and the proto-Moon with both bodies sharing a common plasma metal vapor atmosphere. The shared metal vapor bridge would have allowed material from the Earth and proto-Moon to exchange and equilibrate into a more common composition.\n\nYet another hypothesis proposes that the Moon and the Earth have formed together instead of separately like the giant-impact hypothesis suggests. The new model, developed by Robin M. Canup, suggests that the Moon and the Earth have formed as a part of a massive collision of two planetary bodies, each larger than Mars, which then re-collided to form what we now call Earth. After the recollision, Earth was surrounded by a disk of material, which accreted to form the Moon. This hypothesis could explain facts that others do not.\n\nAcademic articles\n\nNon-academic books\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47201853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47201853", "title": "Glow switch starter", "text": "Glow switch starter\n\nA glow switch starter is a type of preheat starter used with fluorescent lamp. It is commonly filled with neon gas or argon gas and contains a bimetallic strip and a stationary electrode. The operating principle is simple, when current is applied, the gas inside ionizes and heats a bimetallic strip which in turn bends toward the stationary electrode thus shorting the starter between the electrodes of the fluorescent lamp After a second the starter's bimetallic strip will cool and open the circuit between the electrodes and the process repeats until the lamp has lit. One disadvantage of glow switch starters is that when the lamp is at the end of its life it will continuously blink on and off until the glow switch starter wears out or an electrode on the fluorescent lamp burns out.\n"}
{"id": "4041855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4041855", "title": "Indus Valley Desert", "text": "Indus Valley Desert\n\nThe Indus Valley Desert is an almost uninhabited desert ecoregion of northern Pakistan.\n\nThe Indus Valley desert covers an area of in northwestern Punjab Province between the Chenab and Indus rivers. The Indus Valley Desert is drier and less hospitable than the northwestern thorn scrub forests that surround it with temperatures ranging from freezing in winter to extremely hot (more than ) in summer with only of rainfall per year.\n\nThe desert vegetation is quite varied due to the variety of temperatures with Khejri shrubs being the characteristic species.\n\nThe desert is home to five large mammals: Indian wolf, striped hyena, caracal, Indian leopard and the urial (\"Ovis orientalis punjabensis\") along with many rodents and other mammals. Meanwhile, the 190 species of bird in the desert include the red-necked falcon.\n\nLike the nearby Thar Desert the Indus Valley desert has little farming or grazing due to its hard climate and therefore the natural habitats are almost intact. However hunting still goes on and is a threat to caracals, wolves and other mammals.\n"}
{"id": "158529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158529", "title": "Irish Social Season", "text": "Irish Social Season\n\nThe Irish Social Season was a period of aristocratic entertainment and social functions that stretched from January to St. Patrick's Day of a given year. During this period, the major and minor nobility left their country residences and lived in Georgian mansions in places like Rutland Square (now Parnell Square), Mountjoy Square, Merrion Square and Fitzwilliam Square in Dublin. Those with less financial means lived in (or in some cases rented) smaller properties in streets nearby.\n\nThe focal point of the Social Season was the move of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland (the King's representative) from his 'out of season' residence, the Viceregal Lodge (now Áras an Uachtaráin, the residence of the President of Ireland) to live in state in the Viceregal Apartments in Dublin Castle, where he and his wife hosted a series of levées, drawing rooms, banquets and balls in the Castle. \n\nThe period of the social season also coincided with the parliamentary sessions of the Irish House of Lords, which many of the peers in Dublin would be attending. However the Irish Parliament was abolished with the Act of Union which merged the Kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland in 1801. \n\nWith the abolition of the lord lieutenancy in 1922, the emergence of a new nationalist state (the Irish Free State) the same year, and the economic and social downturn that resulted from World War I, the Social Season dwindled and then died. Most of the aristocratic homes in Merrion Square and Fitzwilliam Square were sold and are now used as corporate offices. \n\nAmong the Irish peers who would reside in Dublin during the 'Social Season' were\n\n"}
{"id": "16142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16142", "title": "James Watt", "text": "James Watt\n\nJames Watt (; 30 January 1736 – 25 August 1819) was a Scottish inventor, mechanical engineer, and chemist who improved on Thomas Newcomen's 1712 Newcomen steam engine with his Watt steam engine in 1776, which was fundamental to the changes brought by the Industrial Revolution in both his native Great Britain and the rest of the world.\n\nWhile working as an instrument maker at the University of Glasgow, Watt became interested in the technology of steam engines. He realised that contemporary engine designs wasted a great deal of energy by repeatedly cooling and reheating the cylinder. Watt introduced a design enhancement, the separate condenser, which avoided this waste of energy and radically improved the power, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of steam engines. Eventually he adapted his engine to produce rotary motion, greatly broadening its use beyond pumping water.\n\nWatt attempted to commercialise his invention, but experienced great financial difficulties until he entered a partnership with Matthew Boulton in 1775. The new firm of Boulton and Watt was eventually highly successful and Watt became a wealthy man. In his retirement, Watt continued to develop new inventions though none was as significant as his steam engine work. He died in 1819 aged 83.\n\nHe developed the concept of horsepower, and the SI unit of power, the watt, was named after him.\n\nJames Watt was born on 19 January 1736 in Greenock, Renfrewshire, a seaport on the Firth of Clyde. His father was a shipwright, ship owner and contractor, and served as the town's chief baillie, while his mother, Agnes Muirhead, came from a distinguished family and was well educated. Both were Presbyterians and strong Covenanters. Watt's grandfather, Thomas Watt, was a mathematics teacher and baillie to the Baron of Cartsburn. Despite being raised by religious parents, he later became a deist.\n\nWatt did not attend school regularly; initially he was mostly schooled at home by his mother but later he attended Greenock Grammar School. He exhibited great manual dexterity, engineering skills and an aptitude for mathematics, while Latin and Greek failed to interest him. He is said to have suffered prolonged bouts of ill-health as a child.\n\nWhen he was eighteen, his mother died and his father's health began to fail. Watt travelled to London to study instrument-making for a year, then returned to Scotland, settling in the major commercial city of Glasgow intent on setting up his own instrument-making business. He made and repaired brass reflecting quadrants, parallel rulers, scales, parts for telescopes, and barometers, among other things. Because he had not served at least seven years as an apprentice, the Glasgow Guild of Hammermen (which had jurisdiction over any artisans using hammers) blocked his application, despite there being no other mathematical instrument makers in Scotland.\n\nWatt was saved from this impasse by the arrival from Jamaica of astronomical instruments bequeathed by Alexander Macfarlane to the University of Glasgow, instruments that required expert attention. Watt restored them to working order and was remunerated. These instruments were eventually installed in the Macfarlane Observatory. Subsequently three professors offered him the opportunity to set up a small workshop within the university. It was initiated in 1757 and two of the professors, the physicist and chemist Joseph Black as well as the famed Adam Smith, became Watt's friends.\n\nAt first he worked on maintaining and repairing scientific instruments used in the university, helping with demonstrations, and expanding the production of quadrants. In 1759 he formed a partnership with John Craig, an architect and businessman, to manufacture and sell a line of products including musical instruments and toys. This partnership lasted for the next six years, and employed up to sixteen workers. Craig died in 1765. One employee, Alex Gardner, eventually took over the business, which lasted into the twentieth century.\n\nIn 1764, Watt married his cousin Margaret (Peggy) Miller, with whom he had five children, two of whom lived to adulthood: James Jr. (1769–1848) and Margaret (1767–1796). His wife died in childbirth in 1772. In 1777 he was married again, to Ann MacGregor, daughter of a Glasgow dye-maker, with whom he had two children: Gregory (1777–1804), who became a geologist and mineralogist, and Janet (1779–1794). Ann died in 1832. Between 1777 and 1790 he lived in Regent Place, Birmingham.\n\nThere is a popular story that Watt was inspired to invent the steam engine by seeing a kettle boiling, the steam forcing the lid to rise and thus showing Watt the power of steam. This story is told in many forms; in some Watt is a young lad, in others he is older, sometimes it's his mother's kettle, sometimes his aunt's. James Watt of course did not actually \"invent\" the steam engine, as the story implies, but dramatically improved the efficiency of the existing Newcomen engine by adding a separate condenser. This is difficult to explain to someone not familiar with concepts of heat and thermal efficiency. It appears that the story of Watt and the kettle was created, possibly by Watt's son James Watt Jr., and persists because it is easy for children to understand and remember. In this light it can be seen as akin to the story of Isaac Newton, the falling apple and his discovery of gravity.\n\nAlthough it is often dismissed as a myth, like most good stories the story of James Watt and the kettle has a basis in fact. In trying to understand the thermodynamics of heat and steam James Watt carried out many laboratory experiments and his diaries record that in conducting these he used a kettle as a boiler to generate steam.\n\nIn 1759 Watt's friend, John Robison, called his attention to the use of steam as a source of motive power. The design of the Newcomen engine, in use for almost 50 years for pumping water from mines, had hardly changed from its first implementation. Watt began to experiment with steam, though he had never seen an operating steam engine. He tried constructing a model; it failed to work satisfactorily, but he continued his experiments and began to read everything he could about the subject. He came to realise the importance of latent heat—the thermal energy released or absorbed during a constant-temperature process—in understanding the engine, which, unknown to Watt, his friend Joseph Black had previously discovered some years before. Understanding of the steam engine was in a very primitive state, for the science of thermodynamics would not be formalised for nearly another 100 years.\n\nIn 1763, Watt was asked to repair a model Newcomen engine belonging to the university. Even after repair, the engine barely worked. After much experimentation, Watt demonstrated that about three-quarters of the thermal energy of the steam was being consumed in heating the engine cylinder on every cycle. This energy was wasted because later in the cycle cold water was injected into the cylinder to condense the steam to reduce its pressure. Thus by repeatedly heating and cooling the cylinder, the engine wasted most of its thermal energy rather than converting it into mechanical energy.\n\nWatt's critical insight, arrived at in May 1765, was to cause the steam to condense in a separate chamber apart from the piston, and to maintain the temperature of the cylinder at the same temperature as the injected steam by surrounding it with a \"steam jacket.\" Thus very little energy was absorbed by the cylinder on each cycle, making more available to perform useful work. Watt had a working model later that same year.\n\nDespite a potentially workable design, there were still substantial difficulties in constructing a full-scale engine. This required more capital, some of which came from Black. More substantial backing came from John Roebuck, the founder of the celebrated Carron Iron Works near Falkirk, with whom he now formed a partnership. Roebuck lived at Kinneil House in Bo'ness, during which time Watt worked at perfecting his steam engine in a cottage adjacent to the house. The shell of the cottage, and a very large part of one of his projects, still exist to the rear.\n\nThe principal difficulty was in machining the piston and cylinder. Iron workers of the day were more like blacksmiths than modern machinists, and were unable to produce the components with sufficient precision. Much capital was spent in pursuing a patent on Watt's invention. Strapped for resources, Watt was forced to take up employment—first as a surveyor, then as a civil engineer—for eight years.\n\nRoebuck went bankrupt, and Matthew Boulton, who owned the Soho Manufactory works near Birmingham, acquired his patent rights. An extension of the patent to 1800 was successfully obtained in 1775.\n\nThrough Boulton, Watt finally had access to some of the best iron workers in the world. The difficulty of the manufacture of a large cylinder with a tightly fitting piston was solved by John Wilkinson, who had developed precision boring techniques for cannon making at Bersham, near Wrexham, North Wales. Watt and Boulton formed a hugely successful partnership, Boulton and Watt, which lasted for the next twenty-five years.\n\nIn 1776, the first engines were installed and working in commercial enterprises. These first engines were used to power pumps and produced only reciprocating motion to move the pump rods at the bottom of the shaft. The design was commercially successful, and for the next five years Watt was very busy installing more engines, mostly in Cornwall for pumping water out of mines.\n\nThese early engines were not manufactured by Boulton and Watt, but were made by others according to drawings made by Watt, who served in the role of consulting engineer. The erection of the engine and its shakedown was supervised by Watt, at first, and then by men in the firm's employ. These were large machines. The first, for example, had a cylinder with a diameter of some 50 inches and an overall height of about 24 feet, and required the construction of a dedicated building to house it. Boulton and Watt charged an annual payment, equal to one third of the value of the coal saved in comparison to a Newcomen engine performing the same work.\n\nThe field of application for the invention was greatly widened when Boulton urged Watt to convert the reciprocating motion of the piston to produce rotational power for grinding, weaving and milling. Although a crank seemed the obvious solution to the conversion Watt and Boulton were stymied by a patent for this, whose holder, James Pickard, and associates proposed to cross-license the external condenser. Watt adamantly opposed this and they circumvented the patent by their sun and planet gear in 1781.\n\nOver the next six years, he made a number of other improvements and modifications to the steam engine. A double acting engine, in which the steam acted alternately on the two sides of the piston was one. He described methods for working the steam \"expansively\" (i.e., using steam at pressures well above atmospheric). A compound engine, which connected two or more engines was described. Two more patents were granted for these in 1781 and 1782. Numerous other improvements that made for easier manufacture and installation were continually implemented. One of these included the use of the steam indicator which produced an informative plot of the pressure in the cylinder against its volume, which he kept as a trade secret. Another important invention, one which Watt was most proud of, was the parallel motion which was essential in double-acting engines as it produced the straight line motion required for the cylinder rod and pump, from the connected rocking beam, whose end moves in a circular arc. This was patented in 1784. A throttle valve to control the power of the engine, and a centrifugal governor, patented in 1788, to keep it from \"running away\" were very important. These improvements taken together produced an engine which was up to five times as efficient in its use of fuel as the Newcomen engine.\n\nBecause of the danger of exploding boilers, which were in a very primitive stage of development, and the ongoing issues with leaks, Watt restricted his use of high pressure steam – all of his engines used steam at near atmospheric pressure.\n\nEdward Bull started constructing engines for Boulton and Watt in Cornwall in 1781. By 1792 he had started making engines of his own design, but which contained a separate condenser, and so infringed Watt's patents. Two brothers, Jabez Carter Hornblower and Jonathan Hornblower Jnr also started to build engines about the same time. Others began to modify Newcomen engines by adding a condenser, and the mine owners in Cornwall became convinced that Watt's patent could not be enforced. They started to withhold payments due to Boulton and Watt, which by 1795 had fallen. Of the total £21,000 (equivalent to £ as of ) owed, only £2,500 had been received. Watt was forced to go to court to enforce his claims.\n\nHe first sued Bull in 1793. The jury found for Watt, but the question of whether or not the original specification of the patent was valid was left to another trial. In the meantime, injunctions were issued against the infringers, forcing their payments of the royalties to be placed in escrow. The trial on determining the validity of the specifications which was held in the following year was inconclusive, but the injunctions remained in force and the infringers, except for Jonathan Hornblower, all began to settle their cases. Hornblower was soon brought to trial and the verdict of the four judges (in 1799) was decisively in favour of Watt. Their friend John Wilkinson, who had solved the problem of boring an accurate cylinder, was a particularly grievous case. He had erected about twenty engines without Boulton's and Watts' knowledge. They finally agreed to settle the infringement in 1796. Boulton and Watt never collected all that was owed them, but the disputes were all settled directly between the parties or through arbitration. These trials were extremely costly in both money and time, but ultimately were successful for the firm.\n\nBefore 1780 there was no good method for making copies of letters or drawings. The only method sometimes used was a mechanical one using linked multiple pens. Watt at first experimented with improving this method, but soon gave up on this approach because it was so cumbersome. He instead decided to try to physically transfer some ink from the front of the original to the back of another sheet, moistened with a solvent, and pressed to the original. The second sheet had to be thin, so that the ink could be seen through it when the copy was held up to the light, thus reproducing the original exactly.\n\nWatt started to develop the process in 1779, and made many experiments to formulate the ink, select the thin paper, to devise a method for wetting the special thin paper, and to make a press suitable for applying the correct pressure to effect the transfer. All of these required much experimentation, but he soon had enough success to patent the process a year later. Watt formed another partnership with Boulton (who provided financing) and James Keir (to manage the business) in a firm called James Watt and Co. The perfection of the invention required much more development work before it could be routinely used by others, but this was carried out over the next few years. Boulton and Watt gave up their shares to their sons in 1794. It became a commercial success and was widely used in offices even into the twentieth century.\n\nFrom an early age Watt was very interested in chemistry. In late 1786, while in Paris, he witnessed an experiment by Berthollet in which he reacted hydrochloric acid with manganese dioxide to produce chlorine. He had already found that an aqueous solution of chlorine could bleach textiles, and had published his findings, which aroused great interest among many potential rivals. When Watt returned to Britain, he began experiments along these lines with hopes of finding a commercially viable process. He discovered that a mixture of salt, manganese dioxide and sulphuric acid could produce chlorine, which Watt believed might be a cheaper method. He passed the chlorine into a weak solution of alkali, and obtained a turbid solution that appeared to have good bleaching properties. He soon communicated these results to James McGrigor, his father-in-law, who was a bleacher in Glasgow. Otherwise he tried to keep his method a secret.\n\nWith McGrigor and his wife Annie, he started to scale up the process, and in March 1788, McGrigor was able to bleach 1500 yards of cloth to his satisfaction. About this time Berthollet discovered the salt and sulphuric acid process, and published it so it became public knowledge. Many others began to experiment with improving the process, which still had many shortcomings, not the least of which was the problem of transporting the liquid product. Watt's rivals soon overtook him in developing the process, and he dropped out of the race. It was not until 1799, when Charles Tennant patented a process for producing solid bleaching powder (calcium hypochlorite) that it became a commercial success.\n\nBy 1794 Watt had been chosen by Thomas Beddoes to manufacture apparatus to produce, clean and store gases for use in the new Pneumatic Institution at Hotwells in Bristol. Watt continued to experiment with various gases for several years, but by 1797 the medical uses for the \"factitious airs\" had come to a dead end.\n\nWatt combined theoretical knowledge of science with the ability to apply it practically. Humphry Davy said of him \"Those who consider James Watt only as a great practical mechanic form a very erroneous idea of his character; he was equally distinguished as a natural philosopher and a chemist, and his inventions demonstrate his profound knowledge of those sciences, and that peculiar characteristic of genius, the union of them for practical application\".\n\nHe was greatly respected by other prominent men of the Industrial Revolution. He was an important member of the Lunar Society, and was a much sought-after conversationalist and companion, always interested in expanding his horizons. His personal relationships with his friends and partners were always congenial and long-lasting.\n\nWatt was a prolific correspondent. During his years in Cornwall, he wrote long letters to Boulton several times per week. He was averse to publishing his results in, for example, the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society however, and instead preferred to communicate his ideas in patents. He was an excellent draughtsman.\n\nHe was a rather poor businessman, and especially hated bargaining and negotiating terms with those who sought to use the steam engine. In a letter to William Small in 1772, Watt confessed that \"he would rather face a loaded cannon than settle an account or make a bargain.\" Until he retired, he was always much concerned about his financial affairs, and was something of a worrier. His health was often poor. He was subject to frequent nervous headaches and depression.\n\nAt first the partnership made the drawing and specifications for the engines, and supervised the work to erect it on the customers property. They produced almost none of the parts themselves. Watt did most of his work at his home in Harper's Hill in Birmingham, while Boulton worked at the Soho Manufactory. Gradually the partners began to actually manufacture more and more of the parts, and by 1795 they purchased a property about a mile away from the Soho manufactory, on the banks of the Birmingham Canal, to establish a new foundry for the manufacture of the engines. The Soho Foundry formally opened in 1796 at a time when Watt's sons, Gregory and James Jr. were heavily involved in the management of the enterprise. In 1800, the year of Watt's retirement, the firm made a total of forty-one engines.\n\nWatt retired in 1800, the same year that his fundamental patent and partnership with Boulton expired. The famous partnership was transferred to the men's sons, Matthew Robinson Boulton and James Watt Jr. . Longtime firm engineer William Murdoch was soon made a partner and the firm prospered.\n\nWatt continued to invent other things before and during his semi-retirement. Within his home in Handsworth, Staffordshire, Watt made use of a garret room as a workshop, and it was here that he worked on many of his inventions. Among other things, he invented and constructed several machines for copying sculptures and medallions which worked very well, but which he never patented. One of the first sculptures he produced with the machine was a small head of his old professor friend Adam Smith. He maintained his interest in civil engineering and was a consultant on several significant projects. He proposed, for example, a method for constructing a flexible pipe to be used for pumping water under the Clyde at Glasgow.\n\nHe and his second wife travelled to France and Germany, and he purchased an estate in mid-Wales at Doldowlod House, one mile south of Llanwrthwl, which he much improved.\n\nIn 1816 he took a trip on the paddle-steamer \"Comet\", a product of his inventions, to revisit his home town of Greenock.\n\nHe died on 25 August 1819 at his home \"Heathfield\" in Handsworth, Staffordshire (now part of Birmingham) at the age of 83. He was buried on 2 September in the graveyard of St Mary's Church, Handsworth. The church has since been extended and his grave is now inside the church.\n\nWilliam Murdoch joined Boulton and Watt in 1777. At first he worked in the pattern shop in Soho, but soon he was erecting engines in Cornwall. He became an important part of the firm and made many contributions to its success. A very able man, he made several important inventions on his own.\n\nJohn Griffiths, who wrote a biography of him in 1992, has argued that Watt's discouraging Murdoch from working with high pressure steam (Watt rightly believed that boilers of the time would be unsafe) on his steam road locomotive experiments delayed its development.\n\nWatt patented the application of the sun and planet gear to steam in 1781 and a steam locomotive in 1784, both of which have strong claims to have been invented by Murdoch. The patent was never contested by Murdoch, however, and Boulton and Watt's firm continued to use the sun and planet gear in their rotative engines, even long after the patent for the crank expired in 1794. Murdoch was made a partner of the firm in 1810, where he remained until his retirement 20 years later at the age of 76.\n\nJames Watt's improvements to the steam engine \"converted it from a prime mover of marginal efficiency into the mechanical workhorse of the Industrial Revolution\". The availability of efficient, reliable motive power made whole new classes of industry economically viable, and altered the economies of continents. In doing so it brought about immense social change, attracting millions of rural families to the towns and cities.\n\nOf Watt, the English novelist Aldous Huxley (1894–1963) wrote; \"To us, the moment 8:17 A.M. means something – something very important, if it happens to be the starting time of our daily train. To our ancestors, such an odd eccentric instant was without significance – did not even exist. In inventing the locomotive, Watt and Stephenson were part inventors of time.\"\n\nWatt was much honoured in his own time. In 1784 he was made a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and was elected as a member of the Batavian Society for Experimental Philosophy, of Rotterdam in 1787. In 1789 he was elected to the elite group, the Smeatonian Society of Civil Engineers. In 1806 he was conferred the honorary Doctor of Laws by the University of Glasgow. The French Academy elected him a Corresponding Member and he was made a Foreign Associate in 1814.\n\nThe watt is named after James Watt for his contributions to the development of the steam engine, and was adopted by the Second Congress of the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1889 and by the 11th General Conference on Weights and Measures in 1960 as the unit of power incorporated in the International System of Units (or \"SI\").\n\nOn 29 May 2009 the Bank of England announced that Boulton and Watt would appear on a new £50 note. The design is the first to feature a dual portrait on a Bank of England note, and presents the two industrialists side by side with images of Watt's steam engine and Boulton's Soho Manufactory. Quotes attributed to each of the men are inscribed on the note: \"I sell here, sir, what all the world desires to have—POWER\" (Boulton) and \"I can think of nothing else but this machine\" (Watt). The inclusion of Watt is the second time that a Scot has featured on a Bank of England note (the first was Adam Smith on the 2007 issue £20 note). In September 2011 it was announced that the notes would enter circulation on 2 November.\n\nIn 2011 he was one of seven inaugural inductees to the Scottish Engineering Hall of Fame.\n\nWatt was buried in the grounds of St. Mary's Church, Handsworth, in Birmingham. Later expansion of the church, over his grave, means that his tomb is now buried \"inside\" the church.\n\nThe garret room workshop that Watt used in his retirement was left, locked and untouched, until 1853, when it was first viewed by his biographer J. P. Muirhead. Thereafter, it was occasionally visited, but left untouched, as a kind of shrine. A proposal to have it transferred to the Patent Office came to nothing. When the house was due to be demolished in 1924, the room and all its contents were presented to the Science Museum, where it was recreated in its entirety. It remained on display for visitors for many years, but was walled-off when the gallery it was housed in closed. The workshop remained intact, and preserved, and in March 2011 was put on public display as part of a new permanent Science Museum exhibition, \"James Watt and our world\".\n\nThe approximate location of James Watt's birth in Greenock is commemorated by a statue. Several locations and street names in Greenock recall him, most notably the Watt Memorial Library, which was begun in 1816 with Watt's donation of scientific books, and developed as part of the Watt Institution by his son (which ultimately became the James Watt College). Taken over by the local authority in 1974, the library now also houses the local history collection and archives of Inverclyde, and is dominated by a large seated statue in the vestibule. Watt is additionally commemorated by statuary in George Square, Glasgow and Princes Street, Edinburgh, as well as several others in Birmingham, where he is also remembered by the Moonstones and a school is named in his honour.\n\nThe James Watt College has expanded from its original location to include campuses in Kilwinning (North Ayrshire), Finnart Street and The Waterfront in Greenock, and the Sports campus in Largs. Heriot-Watt University near Edinburgh was at one time the School of Arts of Edinburgh, founded in 1821 as the world's first Mechanics Institute, but to commemorate George Heriot, the 16th-century financier to King James, and James Watt, after Royal Charter the name was changed to Heriot-Watt University. Dozens of university and college buildings (chiefly of science and technology) are named after him. Matthew Boulton's home, Soho House, is now a museum, commemorating the work of both men. The University of Glasgow's Faculty of Engineering has its headquarters in the James Watt Building, which also houses the department of Mechanical Engineering and the department of Aerospace Engineering.\nThe huge painting \"James Watt contemplating the steam engine\" by James Eckford Lauder is now owned by the National Gallery of Scotland.\n\nThere is a statue of James Watt in Piccadilly Gardens, Manchester and City Square, Leeds.\n\nA colossal statue of Watt by Chantrey was placed in Westminster Abbey, and later was moved to St. Paul's Cathedral. On the cenotaph the inscription reads, in part, \"JAMES WATT ... ENLARGED THE RESOURCES OF HIS COUNTRY, INCREASED THE POWER OF MAN, AND ROSE TO AN EMINENT PLACE AMONG THE MOST ILLUSTRIOUS FOLLOWERS OF SCIENCE AND THE REAL BENEFACTORS OF THE WORLD.\"\n\nA bust of Watt is in the Hall of Heroes of the National Wallace Monument in Stirling.\n\nWatt was the sole inventor listed on his six patents:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49655931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49655931", "title": "Johan Eberhard von Schantz", "text": "Johan Eberhard von Schantz\n\nJohan Eberhard von Schantz (), born 29 October 1802 in Pori, died 3 January 1880 in St. Petersburg, was a Finnish-born admiral in the Russian Imperial Navy, ship designer and explorer.\n\nSchantz was born in the Western Finnish coastal town of Pori, which at the time was a part of Sweden, as the son of the lieutenant general Johan Eberhard von Schantz and Johanna Sofia Didron. In 1814 he enlisted the Russian merchant navy and later took chief mate classes in Vyborg. Schantz served 1821–1828 as a midshipman in the 26th naval equipage of the Baltic Fleet, 1828–1830 as a lieutenant in the 8th naval equipage, 1830–1832 in the 27th naval equipage and 1832 in the 5th naval equipage. During the Russo-Turkish War of 1828–29 Schantz served in the ship of the line \"Fère Champenoise\" which took part of the blockade of the Dardanelles. 1833–1838 he was the adjutant of the admiral Alexander Sergeyevich Menshikov.\n\n1834–1836 Schantz circumnavigated the globe as the commander of the Russian Imperial Navy ship \"America\". In 1835 he rediscovered the Wotho Atoll, originally discovered by the Spanish expedition of Ruy López de Villalobos in the 1540s. The atoll was later also known as \"Schantz Islands\".\n\n1841 Schantz sailed the frigate \"Kamchatka\" from New York City to Kronstadt and commanded the ship until 1847. He was promoted to counter admiral in 1848. In the 1850s Schantz designed several gunboats built in the Finnish docks of Pori, Turku and Helsinki. He also designed the frigate \"Rurik\" (1851) and the corvette \"Kalevala\" (1858), both built at the Turku Old Shipyard. During the Crimean War Schantz served in the Baltic Fleet. He was promoted to vice admiral in 1855 and admiral 1866. Schantz was a member of the Russian Board of Admiralty from February 1863 to his death.\n\nSchantz published his Swedish language memoirs with the pen name \"En gammal sjöman\" (The Old Sailor) in 1870–1871.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16125", "title": "John the Baptist", "text": "John the Baptist\n\nJohn the Baptist ( \"Yokhanan HaMatbil\", , \"Iōánnēs ho baptistḗs\" or Ἰωάννης ὁ βαπτίζων, \"Iōánnēs ho baptízōn\", , ; Late 1st century BC – 28–36 AD) was a Jewish itinerant preacher in the early first century AD. John is revered as a major religious figure in Christianity, Islam, the Bahá'í Faith, and Mandaeism. He is called a prophet by all of these faiths, and is honored as a saint in many Christian traditions. Other titles for John include John the Forerunner in Eastern Christianity and \"the prophet John\" (\"Yaḥyā\") in Islam. To clarify the meaning of \"Baptist\", he is sometimes alternatively called John the Baptizer.\n\nJohn used baptism as the central symbol or sacrament of his messianic movement. Most scholars agree that John baptized Jesus. Some scholars believe Jesus was a follower or disciple of John. The New Testament texts in which John is mentioned portray him as rejecting this idea, although several New Testament accounts report that some of Jesus' early followers had previously been followers of John. John the Baptist is also mentioned by the Jewish historian Josephus. Some scholars maintain that John was influenced by the semi-ascetic Essenes, who expected an apocalypse and practiced rituals corresponding strongly with baptism, although no direct evidence substantiates this.\n\nAccording to the New Testament, John anticipated a messianic figure greater than himself. Christians commonly refer to John as the precursor or forerunner of Jesus, since John announces Jesus' coming. John is also identified as the spiritual successor of the prophet Elijah. John was sentenced to death and subsequently beheaded by Herod Antipas sometime between 28 and 36 AD after John rebuked him for divorcing his wife, Phasaelis, and unlawfully taking Herodias, the wife of his brother Herod Philip I.\n\nJohn the Baptist is mentioned in all four canonical Gospels and the non-canonical Gospel of the Nazarenes. The Synoptic Gospels (Mark, Matthew and Luke) describe John baptising Jesus; in the Gospel of John this is implied in .\n\nThe Gospel of Mark introduces John as a fulfilment of a prophecy from the Book of Isaiah (in fact, a conflation of texts from Isaiah, Malachi and Exodus) about a messenger being sent ahead, and a voice crying out in the wilderness. John is described as wearing clothes of camel's hair, living on locusts and wild honey. John proclaims baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sin, and says another will come after him who will not baptize with water, but with the Holy Spirit.\n\nJesus comes to John, and is baptized by him in the river Jordan. The account describes how; as he emerges from the water, the heavens open and the Holy Spirit descends on him 'like a dove'. A voice from heaven then says, \"You are my Son, the Beloved; with you I am well pleased.\" ()\n\nLater in the gospel there is an account of John's death. It is introduced by an incident where the Tetrarch Herod Antipas, hearing stories about Jesus, imagines that this is John the Baptist raised from the dead. It then explains that John had rebuked Herod for marrying Herodias, the ex-wife of his brother (named here as Philip). Herodias demands his execution, but Herod, who 'liked to listen' to John, is reluctant to do so because he fears him, knowing he is a 'righteous and holy man'.\n\nThe account then describes how Herod's daughter Herodias (NRSV; other translations refer to the girl as the \"daughter of Herodias\") dances before Herod, who is pleased and offers her anything she asks for in return. When the girl asks her mother what she should request, she is told to demand the head of John the Baptist. Reluctantly, Herod orders the beheading of John, and his head is delivered to her, at her request, on a plate. John's disciples take the body away and bury it in a tomb.()\n\nThere are a number of difficulties with this passage. The Gospel wrongly identifies Antipas as 'King' and the ex-husband of Herodias is named as Philip, but he is known to have been called Herod. Although the wording clearly implies the girl was the daughter of Herodias, many texts describe her as \"Herod's daughter, Herodias\". Since these texts are early and significant and the reading is 'difficult', many scholars see this as the original version, corrected in later versions and in Matthew and Luke. Josephus says that Herodias had a daughter by the name of Salome.\n\nScholars have speculated about the origins of the story. Since it shows signs of having been composed in Aramaic, which Mark apparently did not speak, he is likely to have got it from a Palestinian source. There are a variety of opinions about how much actual historical material it contains, especially given the alleged factual errors. Many scholars have seen the story of John arrested, executed, and buried in a tomb as a conscious foreshadowing of the fate of Jesus.\nAs it is written in Isaiah the prophet,\n\"Behold, I send my messenger before your face,\nwho will prepare your way,\nthe voice of one crying in the wilderness:\n'Prepare the way of the Lord,\nmake his paths straight,'\"\n\nJohn appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair and wore a leather belt around his waist and ate locusts and wild honey. And he preached, saying, \"After me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.\"\n\nIn those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens being torn open and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, \"You are my beloved Son, with you I am well pleased.\"\n\n\nKing Herod heard of it, for Jesus' name had become known. Some said, \"John the Baptist has been raised from the dead. That is why these miraculous powers are at work in him.\" But others said, \"He is Elijah.\" And others said, \"He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of old.\" But when Herod heard of it, he said, \"John, whom I beheaded, has been raised.\" For it was Herod who had sent and seized John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because he had married her. For John had been saying to Herod, \"It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife.\" And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to put him to death. But she could not, for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and he kept him safe. When he heard him, he was greatly perplexed, and yet he heard him gladly.\n\nBut an opportunity came when Herod on his birthday gave a banquet for his nobles and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee. For when Herodias's daughter came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guests. And the king said to the girl, \"Ask me for whatever you wish, and I will give it to you.\" And he vowed to her, \"Whatever you ask me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom.\" And she went out and said to her mother, \"For what should I ask?\" And she said, \"The head of John the Baptist.\" And she came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, saying, \"I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.\" And the king was exceedingly sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he did not want to break his word to her. And immediately the king sent an executioner with orders to bring John's head. He went and beheaded him in the prison and brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother. When his disciples heard of it, they came and took his body and laid it in a tomb.\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew account begins with the same modified quotation from Isaiah, moving the Malachi and Exodus material to later in the text, where it is quoted by Jesus. The description of John is taken directly from Mark (\"clothing of camel's hair with a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey\"), along with the proclamation that one was coming who would baptise with the Holy Spirit \"and fire\".()\n\nUnlike Mark, Matthew describes John as critical of Pharisees and Sadducees and as preaching \"the kingdom of heaven is at hand\" and a \"coming judgment\".\n\nMatthew shortens the account of the beheading of John, and adds two elements: that Herod Antipas wants John dead, and that the death is reported to Jesus by his disciples. Matthew's approach is to shift the focus away from Herod and onto John as a prototype of Jesus. Where Mark has Herod killing John reluctantly and at Herodias' insistence, Matthew describes him as wanting John dead.\nIn those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea, \"Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.\" For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said,\n\n\"The voice of one crying in the wilderness:\n'Prepare the way of the Lord;\nmake his paths straight.'\"\n\nNow John wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.\n\nBut when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, \"You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not presume to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father,' for I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.\n\n\"I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.\"\n\nThen Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him. John would have prevented him, saying, \"I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?\" But Jesus answered him, \"Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.\" Then he consented. And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him; and behold, a voice from heaven said, \"This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.\"\n\n\nNow when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples and said to him, \"Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?\" And Jesus answered them, \"Go and tell John what you hear and see: the blind receive their sight and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.\"\n\nAs they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: \"What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in kings' houses. What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet. This is he of whom it is written,\n\n\"'Behold, I send my messenger before your face,\nwho will prepare your way before you.'\n\nTruly, I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force. For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John, and if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.\n\n\"But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates,\n\n\"'We played the flute for you, and you did not dance;\nwe sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.'\n\nFor John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, 'He has a demon.' The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, 'Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!' Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds.\"\n\n\nAt that time Herod the tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus, and he said to his servants, \"This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead; that is why these miraculous powers are at work in him.\" For Herod had seized John and bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because John had been saying to him, \"It is not lawful for you to have her.\" And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the people, because they held him to be a prophet. But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before the company and pleased Herod, so that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. Prompted by her mother, she said, \"Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter.\" And the king was sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he commanded it to be given. He sent and had John beheaded in the prison, and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. And his disciples came and took the body and buried it, and they went and told Jesus.\n\nThe Gospel of Luke adds an account of John's infancy, introducing him as the miraculous son of Zechariah, an old man, and his wife Elizabeth, who was past the menopause and therefore unable to have children. According to this account, the birth of John was foretold by the angel Gabriel to Zechariah, while he was performing his functions as a priest in the temple of Jerusalem. Since he is described as a priest of the course of Abijah and Elizabeth as one of the daughters of Aaron, this would make John a descendant of Aaron on both his father's and mother's side. On the basis of this account, the Catholic as well as the Anglican and Lutheran liturgical calendars placed the feast of the Nativity of John the Baptist on June 24, six months before Christmas.\n\nElizabeth is described as a \"relative\" of Mary, the mother of Jesus in . There is no mention of a family relationship between John and Jesus in the other Gospels, and Raymond E. Brown has described it as \"of dubious historicity\". Géza Vermes has called it \"artificial and undoubtedly Luke's creation\". The many similarities between the Gospel of Luke story of the birth of John and the Old Testament account of the birth of Samuel suggest that Luke's account of the annunciation and birth of Jesus are modeled on that of Samuel.\n\n\nUnique to the Gospel of Luke, John the Baptist explicitly teaches charity, baptizes tax-collectors, and advises soldiers.\n\nThe text briefly mentions that John is imprisoned and later beheaded by Herod, but the Gospel of Luke lacks the story of a step-daughter dancing for Herod and requesting John's head.\n\nThe Book of Acts portrays some disciples of John becoming followers of Jesus a development not reported by the gospels except for the early case of Andrew, Simon Peter's brother \nIn the reign of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, who belonged to the division called after Abijah. His wife, whose name was Elizabeth, was also a descendant of Aaron. They were both righteous people, who lived blameless lives, guiding their steps by all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord. But they had no child, Elizabeth being barren; and both of them were advanced in years.\n\nOne day, when Zechariah was officiating as priest before God, during the turn of his division, it fell to him by lot, in accordance with the practice among the priests, to go into the Temple of the Lord and burn incense; and, as it was the Hour of Incense, the people were all praying outside. And an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right of the Altar of Incense. Zechariah was startled at the sight and was awe-struck. But the angel said to him: \"Do not be afraid, Zechariah; your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, whom you will call by the name John. He will be to you a joy and a delight; and many will rejoice over his birth. For he will be great in the sight of the Lord; he will not drink any wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit from the very hour of his birth, and will reconcile many of the Israelites to the Lord their God. He will go before him in the spirit and with the power of Elijah, 'to reconcile fathers to their children' and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous, and so make ready for the Lord a people prepared for him.\"\n\n\"How can I be sure of this?\" Zechariah asked the angel. \"For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years.\"\n\n\"I am Gabriel,\" the angel answered, \"who stand in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news. And now you will be silent and unable to speak until the day when this takes place, because you did not believe what I said, though my words will be fulfilled in due course.\"\n\nMeanwhile, the people were watching for Zechariah, wondering at his remaining so long in the Temple. When he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision there. But Zechariah kept making signs to them, and remained dumb. And, as soon as his term of service was finished, he returned home. After this his wife, Elizabeth, became pregnant and lived in seclusion for five months. \"The Lord has done this for me,\" she said, \"he has shown me kindness and taken away the public disgrace of childlessness under which I have been living.\"\n\nSix months later the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a town in Galilee called Nazareth, to a maiden there who was engaged to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. Her name was Mary. Gabriel came into her presence and greeted her, saying: \"You have been shown great favor – the Lord is with you.\"\n\nMary was much disturbed at his words, and was wondering to herself what such a greeting could mean, when the angel spoke again: \"Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And now, you will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will give him the name Jesus. The child will be great and will be called 'Son of the Most High,' and the Lord God will give him the throne of his ancestor David, and he will reign over the descendants of Jacob for ever; And to his kingdom there will be no end.\"\n\n\"How can this be?\" Mary asked the angel. \"For I have no husband.\"\n\n\"The Holy Spirit will descend on you,\" answered the angel, \"and the Power of the Most High will overshadow you; and therefore the child will be called 'holy,' and 'Son of God.' And Elizabeth, your cousin, is herself also expecting a son in her old age; and it is now the sixth month with her, though she is called barren; for no promise from God will fail to be fulfilled.\"\n\n\"I am the servant of the Lord,\" exclaimed Mary; \"let it be with me as you have said.\" Then the angel left her.\n\nSoon after this Mary set out, and made her way quickly into the hill-country, to a town in Judah; and there she went into Zechariah's house and greeted Elizabeth. When Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the child moved within her, and Elizabeth herself was filled with the Holy Spirit, and cried aloud: \"Blessed are you among women, and blessed is your unborn child! But how have I this honor, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For, as soon as your greeting reached my ears, the child moved within me with delight! Happy indeed is she who believed that the promise which she received from the Lord would be fulfilled.\"\n\nAnd Mary said:\n\n\"My soul exalts the Lord,\nmy spirit delights in God my Savior;\nfor he has remembered his humble servant girl;\nAnd from this hour all ages will count me happy!\n\nGreat things has the Almighty done for me;\nAnd holy is his name.\nFrom age to age his mercy rests\nOn those who honor him.\n\nMighty are the deeds of his arm;\nHe scatters the proud with their own devices,\nhe casts down princes from their thrones,\nand the humble he uplifts,\nthe hungry he loads with gifts,\nand the rich he sends empty away.\n\nHe has stretched out his hand to his servant Israel,\nEver mindful of his mercy\nFor Abraham and his race for ever.\"\n\nMary stayed with Elizabeth about three months, and then returned to her home. When Elizabeth's time came, she gave birth to a son; and her neighbors and relations, hearing of the great goodness of the Lord to her, came to share her joy. A week later they met to circumcise the child, and were about to call him 'Zechariah' after his father, when his mother spoke up: \"No, he is to be called John.\"\n\n\"You have no relation of that name!\" they exclaimed; and they made signs to the child's father, to find out what he wished the child to be called. Asking for a writing-tablet, he wrote the words – 'His name is John.' Everyone was surprised; and immediately Zechariah recovered his voice and the use of his tongue, and began to bless God. All their neighbors were awe-struck at this; and throughout the hill-country of Judea the whole story was much talked about; and all who heard it kept it in mind, asking one another – \"What can this child be destined to become?\" For the Power of the Lord was with him.\n\nThen his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit, and, speaking under inspiration, said:\n\n\"Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel,\nWho has visited his people and wrought their deliverance,\nand has raised up for us the Strength of our salvation\nIn the house of his servant David –\n\nAs he promised by the lips of his holy prophets of old –\nsalvation from our enemies and from the hands of all who hate us,\nshowing mercy to our forefathers,\nAnd mindful of his sacred covenant.\n\nThis was the oath which he swore to our forefather Abraham –\nThat we should be rescued from the hands of our enemies,\nand should serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness,\nIn his presence all our days.\n\nAnd you, child, will be called prophet of the Most High,\nFor you will go before the Lord to make ready his way,\nto give his people the knowledge of salvation\nIn the forgiveness of their sins,\n\nthrough the tender mercy of our God,\nWhereby the Dawn will break on us from heaven,\nto give light to those who live in darkness and the shadow of death,\nAnd guide our feet into the way of peace.\"\n\nThe child grew and became strong in spirit; and he lived in the Wilds until the time came for his appearance before Israel.\n\n\nIn the fifteenth year of the reign of the Emperor Tiberius, when Pontius Pilate was Governor of Judea, Herod Ruler of Galilee, his brother Philip Ruler of the territory comprising Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias Ruler of Abilene, and when Annas and Caiaphas were high priests, a command from God came to John, the son of Zechariah, while he was in the wilderness. And John went through the whole district of the Jordan, proclaiming baptism on repentance, for the forgiveness of sins. This was in fulfillment of what is said in the writings of the prophet Isaiah –\n\n'The voice of one crying aloud in the wilderness:\n\"Make ready the way of the Lord,\nMake his paths straight.\nEvery chasm will be filled,\nEvery mountain and hill will be leveled,\nThe winding ways will be straightened,\nThe rough roads made smooth,\nand everyone will see the salvation of God.\"'\n\nAnd John said to the crowds that went to be baptized by him: \"You children of snakes! Who has prompted you to seek refuge from the coming judgment? Let your lives, then, prove your repentance; and do not begin to say among yourselves 'Abraham is our ancestor,' for I tell you that out of these stones God is able to raise descendants for Abraham! Already, indeed, the axe is lying at the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree that fails to bear good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.\"\n\n\"What are we to do then?\" the people asked. \"Let anyone who has two coats,\" answered John, \"share with the person who has none; and anyone who has food do the same.\"\n\nEven tax-gatherers came to be baptized, and said to John: \"Teacher, what are we to do?\"\n\n\"Do not collect more than you have authority to demand,\" John answered. And when some soldiers on active service asked \"And we – what are we to do?\" he said: \"Never use violence, or exact anything by false accusation; and be content with your pay.\"\n\nThen, while the people were in suspense, and were all debating with themselves whether John could be the Christ, John, addressing them all, said: \"I, indeed, baptize you with water; but there is coming one more powerful than I, and I am not fit even to unfasten his sandals. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. His winnowing-fan is in his hand so that he may clear his threshing-floor, and store the grain in his barn, but the chaff he will burn with a fire that cannot be put out.\"\n\nAnd so with many different appeals John told his good news to the people. But Prince Herod, being rebuked by John respecting Herodias, the wife of Herod's brother, and for all the evil things that he had done, crowned them all by shutting John up in prison. Now after the baptism of all the people, and when Jesus had been baptized and was still praying, the heavens opened, and the Holy Spirit came down on him in the form of a dove, and from the heavens came a voice – \"You are my dearly loved son; you bring me great joy.\"\n\n\"John's disciples,\" they said to Jesus, \"Often fast and say prayers, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, while yours are eating and drinking!\"\n\nAll these events were reported to John by his disciples. So he summoned two of them, and sent them to the Master to ask – \"Are you 'the coming one,' or are we to look for some one else?\"\n\nWhen these men found Jesus, they said: \"John the Baptist has sent us to you to ask – 'Are you 'the coming one,' or are we to look for somebody else?'\" At that very time Jesus had cured many people of diseases, afflictions, and wicked spirits, and had given many blind people their sight. So his answer to the question was: \"Go and report to John what you have witnessed and heard – the blind recover their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are made clean, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised to life, the good news is told to the poor. And blessed is the person who finds no hindrance in me.\"\n\nWhen John's messengers had left, Jesus, speaking to the crowds, began to say with reference to John: \"What did you go out into the wilderness to look at? A reed waving in the wind? If not, what did you go out to see? A man dressed in rich clothing? Why, those who are accustomed to fine clothes and luxury live in royal palaces. What then did you go to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and far more than a prophet. This is the man of whom scripture says –\n\n'I am sending my messenger ahead of you,\nand he will prepare your way before you.'\n\nThere is, I tell you, no one born of a woman who is greater than John; and yet the least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.\"\n\nThe fourth gospel describes John the Baptist as \"a man sent from God\" who \"was not the light\", but \"came as a witness, to bear witness to the light, so that through him everyone might believe\". John clearly denies being the Christ or Elijah or 'the prophet', instead describing himself as the \"voice of one crying in the wilderness\".\n\nUpon literary analysis, it is clear that John is the \"testifier and confessor \"par excellence\"\", particularly when compared to figures like Nicodemus.\n\nJesus's baptism is implied but not depicted. Unlike the other gospels, it is John himself who testifies to seeing \"the Spirit come down from heaven like a dove and rest on him\". John explicitly announces that Jesus is the one \"who baptizes with the Holy Spirit\" and John even professes a \"belief that he is the Son of God\" and \"the Lamb of God\".\n\nThe Gospel of John reports that Jesus' disciples were baptizing and that a debate broke out between some of the disciples of John and another Jew about purification. In this debate John argued that Jesus \"must become greater,\" while he (John) \"must become less\" (Latin Vulgate: ).\n\nThe Gospel of John then points out that Jesus' disciples were baptizing more people than John. Later, the Gospel relates that Jesus regarded John as \"a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light\".\nThere appeared a man sent from God, whose name was John; he came as a witness – to bear witness to the light so that through him everyone might believe. He was not the light, but he came to bear witness to the light.\n\nWhen the religious authorities in Jerusalem sent some Priests and Levites to ask John – \"Who are you?\", he told them clearly and simply: \"I am not the Christ.\"\n\n\"What then?\" they asked. \"Are you Elijah?\"\n\"No,\" he said, \"I am not.\"\n\"Are you 'the prophet'?\" He answered, \"No.\"\n\"Who then are you?\" they continued; \"tell us so that we have an answer to give to those who have sent us. What do you say about yourself?\"\n\"I,\" he answered, \"am – 'The voice of one crying aloud in the wilderness – \"make a straight road for the Lord\"', as the prophet Isaiah said.\"\nThese men had been sent from the Pharisees; and their next question was: \"Why then do you baptize, if you are not the Christ or Elijah or 'the prophet'?\" John's answer was – \"I baptize with water, but among you stands one whom you do not know; he is coming after me, yet I am not worthy even to unfasten his sandal.\" This happened at Bethany, across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.\n\nThe next day John saw Jesus coming towards him, and exclaimed: \"Here is the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! I was taking about him when I said 'After me there is coming a man who ranks ahead of me, because before I was born he already was.' I did not know who he was, but I have come baptizing with water to make him known to Israel.\"\n\nJohn also said: \"I saw the Spirit come down from heaven like a dove and rest on him. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water, he said to me 'He on whom you see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him – he it is who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.' This I have seen myself, and I have declared my belief that he is the Son of God.\" The next day, when John was standing with two of his disciples, he looked at Jesus as he passed and exclaimed: \"There is the Lamb of God!\" The two disciples heard him say this, and followed Jesus.\n\nJohn, also, was baptizing at Aenon near Salim, because there were many streams there; and people were constantly coming and being baptized. (For John had not yet been imprisoned). Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a fellow Jew on the subject of 'purification;' and the disciples came to John and said: \"Rabbi, the man who was with you on the other side of the Jordan, and to whom you have yourself borne testimony – he, also, is baptizing, and everybody is going to him.\" John's answer was – \"A person can gain nothing but what is given them from heaven. You are yourselves witnesses that I said 'I am not the Christ,' but 'I have been sent before him as a messenger.' It is the groom who has the bride; but the groom's friend, who stands by and listens to him, is filled with joy when he hears the groom's voice. This joy I have felt to the full. He must become greater, and I less.\"\n\nHe who comes from above is above all others; but a child of earth is earthly, and his teaching is earthly, too. He who comes from heaven is above all others. He states what he has seen and what he heard, and yet no one accepts his statement. They who did accept his statement confirm the fact that God is true. For he whom God sent as his messenger gives us God's own teaching, for God does not limit the gift of the Spirit. The Father loves his Son, and has put everything in his hands. The person who believes in the Son has eternal life, while a person who rejects the Son will not even see that life, but remains under 'God's displeasure.'\nSimon J. Joseph has argued that the Gospel demotes the historical John by painting him only as a prophetic forerunner to Jesus whereas his ministry actually complemented Jesus'.\n\nAlthough Mark's Gospel implies that the arrival of John the Baptist is the fulfilment of a prophecy from the Book of Isaiah, the words quoted (\"I will send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare your way – a voice of one calling in the wilderness, 'Prepare the way for the Lord, make straight paths for him.'\") are actually a composite of texts from Isaiah, Malachi and the Book of Exodus. (Matthew and Luke drop the first part of the reference.)\n\n\nThe gospels differ on the details of the Baptism. In Mark and Luke, Jesus himself sees the heavens open and hears a voice address him personally, saying, \"You are my dearly loved son; you bring me great joy\". They do not clarify whether others saw and heard these things. Although other incidents where the \"voice came out of heaven\" are recorded in which, for the sake of the crowds, it was heard audibly, John did say in his witness that he did see the spirit coming down \"out of heaven\". John 12:28–30, John 1:32\n\nIn Matthew, the voice from heaven does not address Jesus personally, saying instead \"This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased.\"\n\nIn the Gospel of John, John the Baptist himself sees the spirit descend as a dove, testifying about the experience as evidence of Jesus's status.\n\n\nJohn's knowledge of Jesus varies across gospels. In the Gospel of Mark, John preaches of a coming leader, but shows no signs of recognizing that Jesus is this leader. In Matthew, however, John immediately recognizes Jesus and John questions his own worthiness to baptize Jesus. In both Matthew and Luke, John later dispatches disciples to question Jesus about his status, asking \"Are you he who is to come, or shall we look for another?\"\nIn Luke, John is a familial relative of Jesus whose birth was foretold by Gabriel.\nIn the Gospel of John, John the Baptist himself sees the spirit descend like a dove and he explicitly preaches that Jesus is the Son of God.\n\n\nThe Gospels vary in their depiction of John's relationship to Elijah. Matthew and Mark describe John's attire in a way reminiscent of the description of Elijah in , who also wore a garment of hair and a leather belt. In Matthew, Jesus explicitly teaches that John is \"Elijah who was to come\" (Matt. 11:14 – see also Matt. 17:11–13); many Christian theologians have taken this to mean that John was Elijah's successor. In the Gospel of John, John the Baptist explicitly denies being Elijah. In the annunciation narrative in Luke, an angel appears to Zechariah, John's father, and tells him that John \"will turn many of the sons of Israel to the Lord their God,\" and that he will go forth \"in the spirit and power of Elijah ().\"\n\nAn account of John the Baptist is found in all extant manuscripts of the \"Antiquities of the Jews\" (book 18, chapter 5, 2) by Flavius Josephus (37–100):\n\nAccording to this passage, the execution of John was blamed for the defeat Herod suffered. Some have claimed that this passage indicates that John died near the time of the destruction of Herod's army in 36 AD. However, in a different passage, Josephus states that the end of Herod's marriage with Aretas' daughter (after which John was killed) was only the beginning of hostilities between Herod and Aretas, which later escalated into the battle.\n\nDivergences between the passage's presentation and the biblical accounts of John include baptism for those whose souls have already been \"purified beforehand by righteousness\" is for purification of the body, not general repentance of sin (Mark 1:4). Biblical scholar John Dominic Crossan differentiates between Josephus's account of John and Jesus, saying, \"John had a monopoly, but Jesus had a franchise.\" To get baptized, Crossan writes, you went only to John; to stop the movement one only needed to stop John (therefore his movement ended with his death). Jesus invited all to come and see how he and his companions had already accepted the government of God, entered it and were living it. Such a communal praxis was not just for himself, but could survive without him, unlike John's movement.\n\n records that \"his disciples came and took away [John's] body and buried it\". Theologian Joseph Benson refers to a belief that \"it seems that [the body] had been thrown over the prison walls, without burial, probably by order of Herodias.\n\nThe burial-place of John the Baptist was traditionally said to be at the Nabi Yahya Mosque (Saint John the Baptiste Mosque) in Sebastia in current Palestinian territories, and mention is made of his relics being honored there around the middle of the 4th century. The historians Rufinus and Theodoretus record that the shrine was desecrated under Julian the Apostate around 362, the bones being partly burned. A portion of the rescued relics were carried to Jerusalem, then to Alexandria, where on 27 May 395, they were laid in the basilica newly dedicated to the Forerunner on the former site of the temple of Serapis. The tomb at Sebaste continued, nevertheless, to be visited by pious pilgrims, and Saint Jerome bears witness to miracles being worked there.\n\nWhat became of the head of John the Baptist is difficult to determine. Nicephorus and Symeon Metaphrastes say that Herodias had it buried in the fortress of Machaerus (in accordance with Josephus). Other writers say that it was interred in Herod's palace at Jerusalem; there it was found during the reign of Constantine I, and thence secretly taken to Emesa where it was concealed, the place remaining unknown for years, until it was manifested by revelation in 453. However, the decapitation cloth of Saint John is kept at the Aachen Cathedral. The Coptic Christian Orthodox Church also claim to hold the relics of Saint John the Baptist. These are to be found in a monastery in Lower Egypt between Cairo and Alexandria. It is possible, with permission from the monks, to see the original tomb where the remains were found.\n\nAnother obscure claim relates to the town of Halifax in West Yorkshire, United Kingdom, where, as patron saint of the town, the Baptist's head appears on the official coat-of-arms. One legend (among others) bases the etymology of the town's place-name on \"halig\" (holy) and \"fax\" (face), claiming that a relic of the head, or face, of John the Baptist once existed in the town.\nAlso, in 2010, bones were discovered in the ruins of a Bulgarian church in the St. John the Forerunner Monastery (4th–17th centuries) on the Black Sea island of St. Ivan and two years later, after DNA and radio carbon testing proved the bones belonged to a Middle Eastern man who lived in the 1st century AD, scientists said that the remains could conceivably have belonged to John the Baptist. The remains, found in a reliquarium are presently kept in the Sts. Cyril and Methodius Cathedral in Sozopol.\n\nChristians believe that John the Baptist had a specific role ordained by God as forerunner or precursor of Jesus, who was the foretold Messiah. The New Testament Gospels speak of this role. In the role of John is referred to as being \"to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.\" In as \"...thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways\" and in as being \"To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins.\"\n\nThere are several passages within the Old Testament which are interpreted by Christians as being prophetic of John the Baptist in this role. These include a passage in the Book of Malachi () that refers to a prophet who would \"prepare the way of the Lord\":\n\nand also at the end of the next chapter in Malachi 4:5–6 where it says,\n\nThe Jews of Jesus' day expected Elijah to come before the Messiah; indeed, some present day Jews continue to await Elijah's coming as well, as in the Cup of Elijah the Prophet in the Passover Seder. This is why the disciples ask Jesus in , 'Why then say the scribes that Elias must first come?' The disciples are then told by Jesus that Elijah came in the person of John the Baptist,\n\nThese passages are applied to John in the Synoptic Gospels. But where Matthew specifically identifies John the Baptist as Elijah's spiritual successor (), the gospels of Mark and Luke are silent on the matter. The Gospel of John states that John the Baptist denied that he was Elijah.\n\nMany scholars believe there was contact between the early church in the Apostolic Age and what is called the \"Qumran-Essene community\". The Dead Sea Scrolls were found at Qumran, which the majority of historians and archaeologists identify as an Essene settlement.\nJohn the Baptist is thought to have been either an Essene or \"associated\" with the community at Khirbet Qumran. According to the Book of Acts, Paul met some \"disciples of John\" in Ephesus.\n\nDue to influence of Qumranic terminology and ideas in Paul's Epistle to the Ephesians, some scholars believe that the \"disciples\" mentioned in were disciples of John the Baptist. This view, which assumes that John was an Essene, is debated by scholars. While John the Baptist practiced baptism, the Essenes used ritual washing, also called ablution, as a form of spiritual purification.\n\nThe Catholic Church commemorates Saint John the Baptist on two feast days:\n\nSome Catholics have held to a belief that John the Baptist never sinned, although this has never been a point of doctrine and is not binding in belief upon any adherent as is the sinlessness of Mary. In her \"Treatise of Prayer\", Saint Catherine of Siena includes a brief altercation with the Devil regarding her fight due to the Devil attempting to lure her with vanity and flattery. Speaking in the first person, Catherine responds to the Devil with the following words:\n\nThe Eastern Catholic Churches and Eastern Orthodox faithful believe that John was the last of the Old Testament prophets, thus serving as a bridge between that period of revelation and the New Covenant. They also teach that, following his death, John descended into Hades and there once more preached that Jesus the Messiah was coming, so he was the Forerunner of Christ in death as he had been in life. Eastern Catholic and Orthodox churches will often have an icon of Saint John the Baptist in a place of honor on the iconostasis, and he is frequently mentioned during the Divine Services. Every Tuesday throughout the year is dedicated to his memory.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church remembers Saint John the Forerunner on six separate feast days, listed here in order in which they occur during the church year (which begins on September 1):\n\nIn addition to the above, 5 September is the commemoration of Zechariah and Elizabeth, Saint John's parents. The Russian Orthodox Church observes 12 October as the Transfer of the Right Hand of the Forerunner from Malta to Gatchina (1799).\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormon church) teaches that modern revelation confirms the biblical account of John and also makes known additional events in his ministry. According to this belief, John was \"ordained by the angel of God\" when he was eight days old \"to overthrow the kingdom of the Jews\" and to prepare a people for the Lord. Latter-day Saints also believe that \"he was baptized while yet in his childhood.\"\n\nJoseph Smith said: \"Let us come into New Testament times – so many are ever praising the Lord and His apostles. We will commence with John the Baptist. When Herod's edict went forth to destroy the young children, John was about six months older than Jesus, and came under this hellish edict, and Zecharias caused his mother to take him into the mountains, where he was raised on locusts and wild honey. When his father refused to disclose his hiding place, and being the officiating high priest at the Temple that year, was slain by Herod's order, between the porch and the altar, as Jesus said.\"\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ teaches that John the Baptist appeared on the banks of the Susquehanna River near Harmony Township, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania as a resurrected being to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery on May 15, 1829, and ordained them to the Aaronic Priesthood. According to the Church's dispensational view of religious history, John's ministry has operated in three dispensations: he was the last of the prophets under the law of Moses; he was the first of the New Testament prophets; and he was sent to confirm the Aaronic Priesthood in our day (the dispensation of the fulness of times). Latter-day Saints believe John's ministry was foretold by two prophets whose teachings are included in the Book of Mormon: Lehi and his son Nephi.\n\nIn Gnosticism, John the Baptist was a \"personification\" of the Old Testament prophet Elijah. Elijah did not know the True God (as opposed to the Abrahamic God), and thus had to be reincarnated in Gnostic theology. As predicted by the Old Testament prophet Malachi, Elijah must \"come first\" to herald the coming of Jesus Christ. Modern anthroposophy concurs with the idea that the Baptist was a reincarnation of Elijah, (cf. Mark 9:11–13), Matthew 11:13–14, Luke 7:27 although John the Baptist in the Gospel of John explicitly denies being linked to Elijah (John 1:21).\n\nAmong the early Judeo-Christian Gnostics the Ebionites held that John, along with Jesus and James the Just – all of whom they revered – were vegetarians. Epiphanius of Salamis records that this group had amended their Gospel of Matthew, known today as the Gospel of the Ebionites, to change where John eats \"locusts\" to read \"honey cakes\" or \"manna\".\n\nJohn the Baptist is considered the chief prophet of the Mandaeans, and plays a large part in some of their writings, including the Ginza Rba and the Draša D-Iahia (The Mandaean Book of John). They view John as the only true Messiah, and are opposed to Jesus. The Mandaean scriptures state: \"If the carpenter [Jesus] has joined together the god, who then has joined together the carpenter?\"\n"}
{"id": "57486697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57486697", "title": "Lawrence Kilham", "text": "Lawrence Kilham\n\nLawrence Kilham (10 August 1910, Brookline, Massachusetts – 21 September 2000), Lyme, New Hampshire was a physician, virologist, amateur ornithologist, and nature writer. He is credited as the discoverer of K virus (1952) and, with L. J. Olivier, Kilham rat virus (1959), the first protoparvovirus identified.\n\nKilham received his bachelor's degree in 1932 and his M.S. in biology in 1935 from Harvard University and then his M.D. in 1940 from Harvard Medical School. As an intern in Cleveland, Ohio, he married an intern, Jane K. Kilham (1912–1992). Early in WW II, husband and wife went to England, and after D-Day Lawrence Kilham served in field hospitals as a doctor in the Third Army under Patton. In 1945, Lawrence Kilham returned to graduate school to do research on virology and to teach epidemiology. He was a virology researcher rom 1949 to 1960 and in 1961 he became a professor at Dartmouth Medical School (Geisel School of Medicine), retiring there as professor emeritus in 1978.\n\nHe was elected a fellow of the American Ornithologists' Union in 1974. He was awarded the John Burroughs Medal in 1989 for his 1979 book \"On Watching Birds\".\n\nLawrence Kilham died at his home in Lyme, New Hampshire on 21 Sep 2000. He was predeceased by his wife and a son, Peter. He was survived by three sons, Benjamin, Michael, and Joshua, and a daughter, Phoebe.\n\n"}
{"id": "12664595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12664595", "title": "List of Arceuthobium species", "text": "List of Arceuthobium species\n\nRecently the number of species within the \"Arceuthobium\" has been reduced from 42 to 26. The structure of the subgenera and sections follows Nickrent \"et al.\" (2004) who resolved the phylogeny of the genus using nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences and chloroplast trnT-L-F sequences.\n\nMuch of the work in \"Arceuthobium\" systematics was undertaken and compiled by Hawksworth and Wiens\n\nThis section has the broadest range of host species, parasitizing 20 species of \"Pinus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3762065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3762065", "title": "List of Northern American nectar sources for honey bees", "text": "List of Northern American nectar sources for honey bees\n\nThe nectar resource in a given area depends on the kinds of flowering plants present and their blooming periods. Which kinds grow in an area depends on soil texture, soil pH, soil drainage, daily maximum and minimum temperatures, precipitation, extreme minimum winter temperature, and growing degree days. The plants listed below grow in USDA Hardiness zone 5. A good predictor for when a plant will bloom and produce nectar is a calculation of the growing degree days. Hopkins' Bioclimatic Law states that in North America east of the Rockies, a 130 m (400-foot) increase in elevation, a 4° change in latitude north (444.48 km), or a 10° change in longitude east (two thirds of a time zone) will cause a biological event to occur four days later in the spring or four days earlier in the fall.\nIn botany, the term phenology refers to the timing of flower emergence, sequence of bloom, fruiting, and leaf drop in autumn.\n\nThe classification in major or minor nectar source is very dependent on the agricultural use of the land. An agricultural crop such as canola or alfalfa may be a major or minor source depending on local plantings. Generally, the more diverse a forage area is, the better for a stationary apiary. Urban, suburban and areas not under cultivation provide more consistent warm-season nectar forage than areas that are heavily cultivated with only a few agricultural crops. The nectar sources from large cultivated fields of blooming apples, cherries, canola, melons, sunflowers, clover etc. benefit a bee keeper who is willing to travel with his hives throughout the season.\n\nHoneydew sources are not included in this listing.\n\n"}
{"id": "35889291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35889291", "title": "List of Ornithogalum species", "text": "List of Ornithogalum species\n\nThe genus Ornithogalum contains about 180 species .\n\nThe \"Ornithogalum\" genus is within the Ornithogaleae tribe of the Scilloideae subfamily, in the Asparagaceae family of the Asparagales order.\n"}
{"id": "6147773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6147773", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Mull, Coll and Tiree", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Mull, Coll and Tiree\n\nThe following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the Mull, Coll and Tiree Area of Search. For other areas, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "25318489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25318489", "title": "List of Superfund sites in Michigan", "text": "List of Superfund sites in Michigan\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in Michigan designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. These locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). \n\nThe NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. As of November 29, 2010, there were 67 Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in Michigan. Two additional sites are currently proposed for entry on the list. Seventeen sites have been cleaned up and removed from the list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4445525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4445525", "title": "List of U.S. National Historic Landmarks by state", "text": "List of U.S. National Historic Landmarks by state\n\nThe United States National Historic Landmark Program is designed to recognize and honor the nation's cultural and historical heritage. The program was formally inaugurated with a series of listings on October 9, 1960; as of February 16, 2017, there are 2,596 designated landmarks. A National Historic Landmark (NHL) is generally a building, district, object, site, or structure, that is officially recognized by the United States government for its national historical significance. A National Historic Landmark District (NHLD) is a historic district that is recognized as an NHL. Its geographic area may include contributing properties that are buildings, structures, sites or objects, and it may include non-contributing properties.\n\nThe program is administered by the National Park Service (NPS), a branch of the Department of the Interior. The National Park Service determines which properties meet NHL criteria and makes nomination recommendations after an owner notification process. The Secretary of the Interior reviews nominations and, based on a set of predetermined criteria, makes a decision on NHL designation or a determination of eligibility for designation. Both public and privately owned properties can be designated as NHLs. This designation provides indirect, partial protection of the historic integrity of the properties via tax incentives, grants, monitoring of threats, and other means. Owners may object to the nomination of the property as a NHL. When this is the case the Secretary of the Interior can only designate a site as eligible for designation.\n\nAll NHLs are also included on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP), a list of some 80,000 historic properties that the National Park Service deems to be worthy of recognition. The primary difference between a NHL and a NRHP listing is that the NHLs are determined to have national significance, while other NRHP properties are deemed significant at the local or state level.\n\nMost landmark designations are in one of the 50 states. New York is the state with the most (270), and New York City, with 114 designations, is the city with the largest number of designations. Of the states, North Dakota has the fewest designations with seven. Three cities (New York City, Philadelphia, and Boston) have enough listings to warrant lists separate from their respective states.\n\nA small number of designations have been made outside the 50 states. Most of these appear in United States possessions. The Virgin Islands have five listings, Puerto Rico has four, and island possessions in the South Pacific have six. Five listings are found in Pacific island nations with which the U.S. has established a free association agreement, and one listing, the American Legation in Tangier (the nation's first foreign public property), is found in the unaffiliated Kingdom of Morocco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55503807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55503807", "title": "List of countries banning fossil fuel vehicles", "text": "List of countries banning fossil fuel vehicles\n\nFrom 2005 an expanding list of countries have proposed and later decided to ban the future sale of passenger vehicles powered by so-called fossil fuels such as gasoline (\"gas\" or \"petrol\"), LPG and diesel. The intent to ban vehicles powered by fossil fuels is attractive to governments as it offers simpler target compliance compared with more encompassing phase-out of fossil fuels. Currently, the most up-to-date survey comes from the Center for Climate Protection entitled \"Survey of Global Activity to Phase Out Internal Combustion Engine Vehicles\"\n\nVarious reasons are cited for banning further sale of fossil fuelled vehicles, including energy independence, health risk due to emissions and processing, reduced carbon footprint, efficiency and other factors.\n\nReferences in mainstream media to these bans also use terms or phrases like \"banning gas cars\", \"banning ICE cars\" (Internal Combustion Engine), or \"banning petrol cars\".\n\nThe so-called \"banning\" of fossil fuels vehicles has a defined scope and is generally applied in the form of a legislated decision to restrict further sales or registration of new vehicles powered with specific fuels from a future date. At the date of implementation current vehicles would still be registrable. As at 2017, most bans are over 10-years into the future and are not yet legislated.\n\nTo meet future demand for EVs, auto manufacturers need to plan and gear up for the relevant changes to design and manufacturing processes. Normally, government calls for reduced vehicle emissions are met with resistance from the private sector. According to Winfried Hermann, transport minister for Stuttgart, \"We say, clean up your technology, they say it is impossible.\" Nevertheless, many automakers are now planning to sell most of their vehicle fleet in electric versions. According to Volvo’s CEO, the manufacturer aims for 50 percent of sales to be fully electric by 2025.\n\nOther companies including BMW and Renault have committed to significant increases in EV production in the next two years and plan on a full transition in the near future. The PSA Group, which owns Peugeot and Citroen, stated its intentions to electrify 80 percent of its fleet for production by 2023, and Toyota is manufacturing its first fully electrified Prius to meet California’s updated vehicle standards for 2020. Toyota also announced it will be adding more than 10 EV models by the early 2020s, and has partnered with Panasonic to develop a new EV battery. Companies that have already produced fully electrified cars, such as Nissan, are setting the pace by providing more variety to make EVs appealing to consumers with diverse needs. Aston Martin, Jaguar, and Land Rover, producers of luxury cars, have also spoken publicly about their company goals to move toward electrifying vehicles. German-owned makers of Rolls-Royce and Mini Cooper vehicles plan to bring 25 electric models to market by 2025, in line with the goals that several European countries have targeted for the end of new ICE vehicle sales. Additionally, they hope to stay ahead of shifting market demands and the impending European target goals by increasing research and development spending to 7 billion euros. The largest auto manufacturer in Europe, Volkswagen, has pledged 20 billion euros for its electric car program, and its luxury brand Porsche, in collaboration with Audi, will release 20 electrified models by 2025.\n\nFord Motors and General Motors are also taking the extra step to significantly invest in production efforts. In January 2018, the chairman of Ford announced that the company would more than double their investment in EV production, up to $11 billion, and have 40 models ready for production by 2022, addressing a wide variety of consumers’ aesthetic and logistical needs. Sixteen of the 40 models will function as fully electric cars. In the case of General Motors, one of the largest automotive manufacturers in the world, company leadership aims to produce 18 battery electric cars and fuel cell-powered vehicles by 2023, two of which will come out this year. The company has already opened its market for EVs in China, where General Motors reported selling more cars than it did in the United States in 2017. In the summer of 2017, “it started selling a two-seat EV there, for just $5,300.\" Pressure from regulators in China, Europe, and California to slash carbon emissions from fossil fuels is partially responsible for the shift in attitude at these major companies. Other influential forces include \"Tesla Inc.’s success in creating electric sedans and SUVs that inspire would-be owners to line up outside showrooms and flood the company with orders.\" Fiat-Chrysler claims to be \"going after Tesla,\" producing four electrified Maserati models by 2022.\n\nAutomotive manufacturers are not the only corporate presence that make a significant impact on EV adoption. Other industries that use predominantly fossil fuel-powered vehicles, such as trucking and transportation services, would send crucial market signals by demonstrating a greater willingness to use electric trucks and other emission-free technologies. A Council on Foreign Relations article describes major corporations acting as EV and green technology consumers as exhibiting \"corporate responsibility.\" The article also draws a parallel to the success of corporate and public commitment to investment in renewables. \"When large corporates [such as Google and Apple announcing their intent to run on 100 percent renewables] publicly committed to investing in renewables, states and cities competed to adopt clean energy policies to attract investment, leading corporates to invest billions in renewables across the country.\" A similar opportunity exists for clean cars. Ride-hailing, an industry entirely reliant on personal car ownership, has recognized the opportunity to incentivize and encourage EV adoption. Lyft, for example, has announced their intention to provide one billion rides per year in EVs. Uber, meanwhile, is incentivizing the switch to EVs by offering to pay more to participating drivers. In the logistics world, UPS is involved in an ongoing effort to electrify its entire London fleet (170 trucks), which includes developing a smart schedule for charging the trucks so that the grid remains stable. They are also moving to electrify 1,500 trucks in their New York fleet. While industries on both the supply and demand side of EV uptake have legacies of reliance on the fossil fuel industry to overcome, these big names have a prime opportunity to set a meaningful example for other companies as well as individuals. \n"}
{"id": "3271772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3271772", "title": "List of dark nebulae", "text": "List of dark nebulae\n\nThis is a list of dark nebulae (absorption nebulae), also called \"dark clouds\".\n\n\nSee also the references to names from other cultures at dark cloud constellations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46938209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46938209", "title": "List of mountain peaks of Oregon", "text": "List of mountain peaks of Oregon\n\nThis article comprises three sortable tables of major mountain peaks of the U.S. State of Oregon.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nOf the highest major summits of Oregon, five peaks exceed elevation and 24 peaks exceed elevation.\n\nOf the most prominent summits of Oregon, Mount Hood exceeds of topographic prominence. Four peaks are ultra-prominent summits with more than of topographic prominence and 12 peaks exceed of topographic prominence.\n\nOf the most isolated major summits of Oregon, Sacajawea Peak and Steens Mountain exceed of topographic isolation and Mount McLoughlin exceeds of topographic isolation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "602632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602632", "title": "List of rivers of India", "text": "List of rivers of India\n\nThis is a List of rivers of India starting with the Bay of Bengal west moving along the Indian coast southward to Kanyakumari, then northward along the Arabian Sea. Tributary rivers are listed hierarchically in upstream order: the lower in the list, the more upstream.\n\nThe major rivers of India are: \n\nThe remaining rivers are as follows:\n\n\nThe Meghna-Surma-Barak River System is located in India and Bangladesh.\n\n\n\n\nSix Major Rivers Of Odisha (AKA Gift Of Six Rivers)\n\nGodavari River in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh states\n\nMain Tributary rivers in Maharashtra are—Right side tributary:-\n-Left side tributary:-\nMain Tributary rivers in Karnataka\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following rivers are part of the Narmada River's basin:\n\n\n\n\n\nMandovi River, known as Mhadai in Western Ghats of Goa and Karnataka, has three sources: the Degao, the Nanevadichi Nhõi (nhõi means river in Konkani) and Gavali; the last two sources go dry in summer season. The main origin of the river, in the form of a spring, even during Summer season, is at Bavtyacho Dongor hills near Degao village in Khanapur Taluka of Belgaum Dist in Karnataka State.\n\nThe three streams confluence at the Kabnali village whereafter it is known as Mhadai, which has an easterly flow initially, then flows north and finally turns to the west on entering Goa. Mhadai River enters Goa between Krisnapur (Karnataka) and Kadval (Goa) villages. The tributaries of the Mhadai are the Nersa Nala, the Chapoli and Kapoli nala, the Bail Nala, the Volo Panshiro ( Karnataka), the Suko Panshiro, the Harparo, the Nanodyachi Nhõi, the Vellsachi Nhõi, the Valpoichi Nhõi, the Ghadghadyachi Nhõi, the Valvanti/ Volvot, the Divcholchi Nhõi, the Asnoddchi Nhõi, the Khandeaparchi Nhõi, the Mhapxechi Nhõi, Xinkerchi Nhõi etc. It is the longest River of Goa with a reported length of 105 km.\n\n\nThe rivers flowing through three coastal districts of Karnataka join Arabian sea.\n\nSee also : List of rivers of Kerala\n\nThe rivers flowing through three coastal districts of Kerala to join Arabian sea.\n\n\n!! Indian rivers\n\n\n\n\nKayadu river ( Start near Narsinamdev meets penganga near Sangam Chincholi)\n\n\n\nSee earlier section\n\n\nPrasad Society, Tilak Road, Pune 411 030, INDIA\n"}
{"id": "36721591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36721591", "title": "List of wadis of Libya", "text": "List of wadis of Libya\n\nThis is a list of wadis in Libya. This list is arranged by region from west to east, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n×Wadi Majer/ Zliten City\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9973332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9973332", "title": "Léon Emmanuel Monnet", "text": "Léon Emmanuel Monnet\n\nLéon Emmanuel Monnet (born 1952) is the Minister of Mines and Energy of Côte d'Ivoire and the mayor of Adzopé; he is a member of the Ivorian Popular Front (FPI).\n"}
{"id": "948580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=948580", "title": "Magnetic hysteresis", "text": "Magnetic hysteresis\n\nMagnetic hysteresis occurs when an external magnetic field is applied to a ferromagnet such as iron and the atomic dipoles align themselves with it. Even when the field is removed, part of the alignment will be retained: the material has become \"magnetized\". Once magnetized, the magnet will stay magnetized indefinitely. To demagnetize it requires heat or a magnetic field in the opposite direction. This is the effect that provides the element of memory in a hard disk drive.\n\nThe relationship between field strength and magnetization is not linear in such materials. If a magnet is demagnetized () and the relationship between and is plotted for increasing levels of field strength, follows the \"initial magnetization curve\". This curve increases rapidly at first and then approaches an asymptote called magnetic saturation. If the magnetic field is now reduced monotonically, follows a different curve. At zero field strength, the magnetization is offset from the origin by an amount called the remanence. If the relationship is plotted for all strengths of applied magnetic field the result is a hysteresis loop called the \"main loop\". The width of the middle section along the H axis is twice the coercivity of the material.\n\nA closer look at a magnetization curve generally reveals a series of small, random jumps in magnetization called Barkhausen jumps. This effect is due to crystallographic defects such as dislocations.\n\nMagnetic hysteresis loops are not exclusive to materials with ferromagnetic ordering. Other magnetic orderings, such as spin glass ordering, also exhibit this phenomenon.\n\nThe phenomenon of hysteresis in ferromagnetic materials is the result of two effects: rotation of magnetization and changes in size or number of magnetic domains. In general, the magnetization varies (in direction but not magnitude) across a magnet, but in sufficiently small magnets, it doesn't. In these single-domain magnets, the magnetization responds to a magnetic field by rotating. Single-domain magnets are used wherever a strong, stable magnetization is needed (for example, magnetic recording).\n\nLarger magnets are divided into regions called \"domains\". Within each domain, the magnetization does not vary; but between domains are relatively thin \"domain walls\" in which the direction of magnetization rotates from the direction of one domain to another. If the magnetic field changes, the walls move, changing the relative sizes of the domains. Because the domains are not magnetized in the same direction, the magnetic moment per unit volume is smaller than it would be in a single-domain magnet; but domain walls involve rotation of only a small part of the magnetization, so it is much easier to change the magnetic moment. The magnetization can also change by addition or subtraction of domains (called \"nucleation\" and \"denucleation\").\n\nThe most known empirical models in hysteresis are Preisach and Jiles-Atherton models. These models allow an accurate modeling of the hysteresis loop and are widely used in the industry. However, these models lose the connection with thermodynamics and the energy consistency is not ensured. Latest models rely on a consistent thermodynamic formulation. VINCH model is inspired by the kinematic hardening laws and by the thermodynamics of irreversible processes. In particular, in addition to provide an accurate modeling, the stored magnetic energy and the dissipated energy are known at all times. The obtained incremental formulation is variationally consistent; i.e., all internal variables follow from the minimization of a thermodynamic potential. That allows to obtain easily a vectorial model while Preisach and Jiles-Atherton are fundamentally scalar models.\n\nThere are a great variety of applications of the hysteresis in ferromagnets. Many of these make use of their ability to retain a memory, for example magnetic tape, hard disks, and credit cards. In these applications, \"hard\" magnets (high coercivity) like iron are desirable so the memory is not easily erased. \n\n\"Soft\" magnets (low coercivity) are used as cores in electromagnets. The nonlinear response of the magnetic moment to a magnetic field boosts the response of the coil wrapped around it. The low coercivity reduces that energy loss associated with hysteresis.\n\nMagnetic hysteresis material (soft nickel-iron rods) has been used in damping the angular motion of satellites in low earth orbit since the dawn of the space age.\n\n"}
{"id": "8335486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8335486", "title": "Maharishi Vastu Architecture", "text": "Maharishi Vastu Architecture\n\nMaharishi Vastu Architecture (MVA) is a set of architectural and planning principles assembled by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi based on \"ancient Sanskrit texts\". Maharishi Vastu Architecture is also called \"Maharishi Sthapatya Veda\", \"Fortune-Creating\" buildings and homes, and \"Maharishi Vedic architecture\".\n\nMVA has strict rules governing the orientation and proportions of a building. The most important factor is the entrance, which must be either due east or due north. The MVA architect also considers the slope and shape of the lot, exposure to the rising sun, location of nearby bodies of water and the other buildings or activities in the nearby environment. MVA emphasizes the use of natural or \"green\" building materials.\n\nMVA homes are marketed in the US by Maharishi Global Construction, LLC, and by MVA Homes in the UK, both arms of the Transcendental Meditation movement. Several communities around the world have been developed using MVA principles. The plans for Peace Tower, which would have been the world's tallest building, followed MVA specifications.\n\nAccording to Maharishi Global Construction (MGC) in Fairfield, Iowa, building a home according to the principles of MVA \"connects the individual intelligence of the occupant of the house to the cosmic intelligence of the universe\". Proponents of MVA say its basis is in the Vedas, 5,000-year-old Sanskrit texts that assert a connection between human health and building materials, orientation to the movements of the sun and spatial relationships. According to Lipman, Vedic architecture and feng shui have a common root, but MVA is more scientific, while feng shui has superstitious elements. Lipman says that MVA is derived from \"lost and misunderstood\" principles, natural law, \"whereby the entire universe is created: galaxies, planets, human beings\" along with buildings and cities.\n\nCraig Pearson, Executive Vice President of Maharishi University of Management (MUM), claims that spending time in buildings that follow these principles makes one smarter. Proponents claim that MVA homes have escaped wildfires that burned neighboring homes, and that businesses located in MVA office buildings have greater profit and lower absenteeism. Residents of MVA homes in Maharishi Vedic City, Iowa claim they felt vitality, calm and happiness when they moved into their Vedic houses. A mother claims that her boys are more orderly. Maharishi Mahesh Yogi has said, \"Living in a proper vastu can eliminate 60 to 80 percent of the problems we encounter in life.\" Peter Warburton, Raja of England, says that the practice of Maharishi’s Vedic peace technologies is more powerful with Vastu buildings. Yale University architecture professor Keller Easterling says that MVA is fueled by a desire to create outposts for broadcasting the Maharishi Effect.\n\nMaharishi Sthapatya Veda is considered to be an element of the Maharishi Vedic Approach to Health, and the main modality of MVAH for improving the immediate environment.\n\nAuspicious locations have water to the east or north. If water is in an inauspicious location then it can be balanced with fountains on the north side. Items in the nearby environment that generate electro-magnetic fields, such as high tension wires and microwave towers, are avoided. The slope, if any, should be towards the east, and there should be no obstructions that block the sun's first rays.\n\nThe principles of orientation in Maharishi Sthapatya Veda are based on the position of the sun, considered by MVA to be the most powerful natural influence on Earth. Aligning a structure with the rising sun (facing east) is considered by MVA adherents to be auspicious for the building's inhabitants and to be \"spiritually healthy.\" According to the principles of MVA, the other three cardinal directions also have their corresponding influences. For example, homes with entrances facing west invite \"poverty, lack of creativity and vitality,\" and \"anxiety, depression, bad luck and even criminal tendencies.\" According to the MVA official website, the north direction has the influence of prosperity and happiness and the south direction has the influence of negativity, problems and suffering. Proper orientation is also said to increase business productivity.\n\nWhen a house for a particular individual is being designed using MVA principles, the placement of the building and its rooms are carefully planned according to their intended usage and the influence of the sun as it moves throughout the day. Rooms are placed to \"take in the sun's light as it passes overhead.\" Windows and skylights are also used to allow as much natural sunlight as possible to enter the building. An aspect of MVA called \"Vastu Vidya\" determines the places in the building that are used for generating and storing natural elements like fire and water, heating and plumbing. Bathroom fixtures such as sinks and mirrors also have a particular placement according to MVA rules; Toilets have a particular direction depending on the Vastu design Kitchens and dining rooms should be on the east side, and offices on the west. commercial buildings are often designed as linear \"bar buildings\" to offer the most east-facing exposure.\n\nMVA says that symmetry is orderly and helps to coordinate the various aspects of a structure, and that there is an ideal proportion for every room in a home or office. Also, the length, width and elevation of the building are calculated using the ancient Vedic mathematical formulas and requires a level of construction precision to one-eighth of an inch.\n\nMVA planning and building takes into account the effects of the sun, moon, planets and stars, and also using the poles and the equator as reference points. Its measurements and proportions are said to be calculated in reference to proportions of the human physiology and the cosmos, and in harmony with nature.\n\nOne of the features of MVA design is the \"Brahmasthan\", whose literal translation is \"establish wholeness\". The \"Brahmasthan\" is a central space \"lit by a skylight\" that serves as a \"silent core\" and is \"never walked on\". The \"Brahmastan\" is said to act as the \"nucleus\" or axis point for the structure like the nucleus of a cell or an atom.\n\nOther features include a perimeter designation called a \"vastu\" fence. This boundary line may consist of shrubs or a metal, stone or wood fence. It is ideally about away from the front and back of the building and eight feet away from the sides. Another feature is a \"small, golden, roof ornament\" or cupola, called a \"kalash\", which one MVA architect says improves the connection between the residents and heaven. A defined plinth is another standard element. Color is also covered by MVA.\n\nThree \"special ceremonies\" performed on \"auspicious dates\" are recommended by MVA. These include a ground breaking, which is described as digging a precise square hole while facing east, adding organic fertilizer and \"sacred water\" from India, and making statements of goodwill and success for the new construction. The second ceremony is the laying of the cornerstone and the third is moving-in.\n\nMVA buildings should not contain any iron or steel. MVA emphasizes the use of natural or \"green\" building materials such as wood, bricks, adobe, rammed earth, clay, stucco and marble. Other natural fibers such as wood, paper, cotton and wool are used in the interior. The use of natural materials, along with spacious plots and layouts, mean that MVA homes can be expensive, according to the MGC sales director, Eloise Raymond.\n\nEike Hartmann is the Minister of Architecture for the Global Country of World Peace, the chair of the department of Maharishi Sthapatya Veda at Vedic University in the Netherlands, and designer of the Maharishi Tower of Invincibility on the campus of Maharishi University of Management USA. Jonathan Lipman is chief architect for Maharishi Global Construction (MGC) and adjunct faculty member at Maharishi University of Management. Lipman reports having designed \"hundreds of homes\" and office buildings including Tower II, the largest MVA building to date. Henry Clark (deceased) was an architect at MGC and the chief architect and planner for Maharishi Vedic City, Iowa.\n\nThe Maharishi Heaven on Earth Development Corp. (MHOED) announced in 1988 that it planned to build 50 \"Maharishi Cities of Immortals\" across the U.S. and Canada. The individual homes would be built using MVA specifications with non-toxic materials and natural ventilation. Its long-term goal is to \"reconstruct the entire world\".\n\nThe Maharishi Global Development Fund (MGDF) was founded in 1997 in New York City. It had an initial capital of $430 million, which grew by hundreds of millions, and the stated capacity to handle multiple projects in several counties worth billions of dollars. It has the goal of constructing buildings that reduce the world's problems. It is also concerned with building cities and countries. It was inaugurated on the top floor of the World Trade Center in 1997, and was a tenant on September 11, 2001.\n\nIn 1995, the MGDF purchased a vacant hotel in Hartford, Connecticut, for $1.5 million. After being vacant for more than 15 years, the building sold in 2011 for $500,000. Yale University architecture professor Keller Easterling compares Maharishi Global Development Fund to \"Arnold Palmer Golf Management\", a developer of golf courses, adding that both \"Arnold Palmer Golf Management\" and \"Transcendental Meditation\" are registered trademarks and thus \"ideologies and practices\" that are regarded as \"commercial products\". According to Easterling, both companies maintain a partial story which allows them to keep the \"brand amnesiacally refreshed\" and alter plans without explanation.\n\nThe Maharishi Global Construction L.L.C. (MGC) markets and guides the construction of MVA buildings. Based in Fairfield, Iowa, Doug Greenfield is its volunteer president, Lipman is its chief architect, Hartmann heads the legal department, and Clark is one of its architects. It offers consulting services to architects and builders, but not architectural services. It advised on $13 million in construction in 1999, and $90 million in 2003. By 2003, it reported having built hundreds of Vastu homes in the US. To reduce the cost of MVA homes, and to simplify compliance with the precise design constraints, MGC has begun to offer modular kits. MGC also offers a \"rectification service\" to bring existing buildings closer to MVA standards. Maharishi Global Construction L.L.C. officially dissolved in 2006.\n\nThe Maharishi's Global Reconstruction Program for Permanent World Peace entails replacing the existing cities and buildings of the world with plans and structures that follow MVA principles. The project is estimated by the Global Country of World Peace (GCWP) Finance Minister to cost $300 trillion. A goal of the MGDF is to achieve \"heaven on earth\". The Director of the Global Country of World Peace's Financial Capital, Paul Potter, said \"we hope to be able to rebuild the whole world to be fortune-oriented buildings, to be heaven on earth\".\n\nMVA principles were mandated in the platform of the Maharishi's \"Invincible India Party\" (Ajeya Bharat Party). In 1998, it called for an overhaul of building laws to require all new buildings to comply with MVA. One month after its 2001 founding, the Maharishi Vedic City, Iowa, the council passed a resolution saying that city planning should be in accord with MVA principles.\n\nA 2000 document from the Maharishi Global Development Fund outlines a proposed method for cities to transition to Vastu buildings. The first phase is \"controlling the expansion of the city by establishing a masterplan with parallel roads in east/west, north/south directions\". The second phase is \"construction of ideal villages and satellite towns around the city, free from pollution\". The third is \"starting to demolish congested areas in the city center, replacing them with beautiful gardens, parks and fountains\". The fourth is \"final stage of the expanded garden city, providing ideal living conditions, including a modern communication and transportation system\".\n\nThe Maharishi said that \"improperly oriented\" building should be demolished, including the White House and the U.N. Building. He is quoted as saying that national leaders should vacate inauspicious buildings immediately, \"as if an earthquake had hit them\". In 2001, he ordered numerous TM centers around the world to close due to inauspicious locations. In 2005, the Maharishi told \"everyone in the world to live and work in buildings constructed according to Sthapatya Veda or Vastu architecture\". He said then that he would no longer talk or deal with any member of the TM community unless they lived in Vastu structures.\n\nHe designated 2006 as the \"Year of Reconstruction for the Whole World to be Heaven on Earth\". The following year he included reconstruction in his seven-point plan for creating \"invincibility for every nation\". According to the Maharishi, \"All the problems of the world will go away with our Global Reconstruction Programme\". The elements of the world reconstruction program, as they appeared in movement newsletter in 2005, includes buildings such as:\n\nIn the decade prior to 2005, about $250 million was spent on the construction of Maharishi Sthapatya Veda buildings, according to the \"Rock Island Argus\". About a third of that construction took place in the town of Fairfield, Iowa.\n\nAccording to a 2005 article in the American Airlines magazine, \"American Way\", \"hundreds\" of homes using MVA principles have been built across the U.S.A. including Wyoming, Iowa, Texas, Kentucky, Florida, North Carolina and Maryland. The article says that \"a growing legion of architects and scholars believes that by using the principles of Vedic architecture,\" good health and fortune can be incorporated into a home or building. That same year, an article in \"Newsweek\" magazine reported that there had been $500 million in \"new Vedic construction\" during the prior ten-year period.\n\nA 2008 \"Washington Post\" article reports that there are MVA buildings in at least 14 states in the US.\n\nMVA principles were used for a $72 million, , nine-story office complex called \"Tower II\". Located at 2000 Towers Oaks Boulevard in Rockville, Maryland, the structure has been named the \"greenest building in Maryland\", achieving a \"platinum ranking\" in the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), rating system. The \"Fortune Creating Architectural/Vedic-designed office building\" was developed by Lerner Enterprises and the Tower Companies and designed by Jonathan Lipman. It was the subject of a Harvard Business School case study. The building is one of a handful of MVA structures in the Washington, D.C., area. Jeffrey Abramson, a partner in the family-owned Tower Companies, is a long-time TM practitioner and the chairman of the board of trustees of Maharishi University of Management. According to Abrahamson \"The human brain reacts to space\" and by using appropriate proportions a working space can be designed to enhance productivity.\n\nA warehouse and office was built according to MVA principles in Colorado Springs, Colorado, for Maharishi Ayur-Ved Products International Inc. (MAPI). MAPI imports and distributes Maharishi Ayurveda herbal supplements. Every detail of the building, including the placement of the desks, is intentional. There are no fluorescent lights, but windows and skylights are plentiful. When completed in 1997 at a cost of about $3 million, it was considered to be one of only 75 MVA buildings in the US.\n\nThe Maharishi Foundation purchased the former St. Ludwig College Franciscan monastery at Vlodrop in the Netherlands in 1984. In 1990, it became the Maharishi's headquarters and residence. Demolition of the monastery, which was declared a national monument, encountered resistance from local leaders. The Maharishi Foundation was enjoined from continuing and, despite lawsuits, it has not succeeded in getting rid of the large building. New buildings have been built around it. The main building is the Maharishi's palace. It is the largest wooden structure in the country and was built without using any nails, at \"vast expense\". About the building, the Maharishi is reported to have said that, \"the walls of this celebrated building\"...\"in no way enclose his unbounded cosmic awareness\". The building is a tourist attraction, though security is tight. As of 2006, about 50 followers of the Maharishi live on the property in temporary huts. A 2007 press release says that 12 Raja palaces have been constructed on the site.\n\nThe Maharishi hired Minoru Yamasaki, the architect of the World Trade Center towers, to design the world's tallest building. Called \"The Centre of India\" or the \"Vedic Vishwa Prashasan\", the 160-story, 2,222' (675.5m) tall building would have been considerably higher than the 1,483' Petronas Towers, then the tallest building in the world. The layered, pyramid-shaped building would be decorated ornately, with arches and columns, like a Hindu or Vedic temple. The base would be 339 meters square, about 11.5 hectares. Priced at $2.5bn, it would have been large enough to hold 60,000 or 100,000 meditators. The foundation stone was laid on November 6, 1998, at the Brahmasthan of India. The elaborate, three-hour ceremony was attended by dignitaries, including representatives from ten countries, and 2,000 local villagers. No specific completion date was given. As of 2010, the Indian tower was still described in news reports as an active project.\n\nIn May 1999, the Maharishi Global Development Fund announced that it would build a 1,630' (510m), 103-story tower in downtown Sao Paulo, Brazil. The 60/40 partnership with Brasilinvest, a private development company, had a budget of £1.65 billion or $2bn. The Maharishi Global Development Fund would provide $500 million directly and underwrite the rest of it. Proponents said it would improve a run-down area near city hall, dubbed \"cracktown\", and restore civic pride. Skeptics questioned the need for the office and commercial space, the carrying capacity of the infrastructure, its location in a flood plain, the Maharishi's finances, and the overall viability of such a large project.\n\nIts floor space, 1.3m sq m, would have been larger than the seven-building World Trade Center complex and almost twice as large as The Pentagon. When it was redesigned as a more conventional glass-sheathed skyscraper, one writer described it as a \"giant saltcellar\" with a hollow core. The project was slated to have a convention center, four hotels, a university, and apartments. It would have had a monorail stop and underground parking for 25–100,000 cars. Mario Garnero, head of Brasilinvest, said, \"This isn't just a building, it's a city.\" In October 1999, it was announced that the project had the support of the mayor and governor. The land cost, $122 millions, would be split between investors and the city. It was to be paired with another project, the Transworld Complex, that would have a conference center, a golf course, and a theme park on . Construction was predicted to begin January 2000. In November 2000, it was announced that the plan was being dropped due to government opposition.\n\nThe Peace Tower plan was moved to a property in The Colony, Texas, a suburb of Dallas, renamed \"Global Centre\", and rebudgeted at $3bn. The Federal Aviation Administration was concerned about the effect on air traffic and the project did not receive planning approval. The FBI investigated conflicts of interest allegations when the former mayor of the city was hired by the Maharishi's company.\n\nMaharishi Development Project's Peter Swan announced plans in August 2000 for a tower at a site next to Alexandra, Johannesburg, South Africa. The 270-hectare property had been sold to the project by the University of the Witwatersrand after it found the soil was unsuitable for housing. Towers were also proposed for each of the 24 time zones.\n\nMaharishi University of Management (MUM) is building new structures that follow MVA principles to replace 40 demolished buildings on their campus. Most of the buildings on campus are now compliant with some or all MVA principles, including Dreier Building (the first MVA building on campus), Argiro Student Center, and two Peace Palaces.\n\nThe Sustainable Learning Center (SLC), designed by Lipman, is being built to the highest LEED standards.\n\nIn 2000, the Maharishi announced plans to build Peace Palaces in the 3,000 largest cities around the world. The buildings would be built with MVA principles and would house \"dormitories, classrooms and shops\". As of 2007, Peace Palaces have been completed in at least four US locations, and land has been acquired in 52 other locations.\n\nThe Spiritual Centre in Nasu, the first MVA building in Japan, was designed like an ancient Japanese palace and is reported to be the country's largest wooden structure. Comprehensive Blood & Cancer Center (CBCC), a medical center, designed by Lipman, has been constructed in Bakersfield, California. Ravi Patel, the founder of the CBCC, is a trustee of the Maharishi University of Management.\n\nMaharishi Sthapatya Veda principles apply to communities and cities as well as individual buildings. Communities should have \"Bramasthans\" at their centers, just like homes. Ideal cities, according to plans drawn up by the Maharishi, are built in a grid pattern with gardens surrounding them. Cities with bad arrangements include Paris and New York, and it has been proposed that they be rebuilt on MVA standards. Communities built according to MVA principles are called \"Peace Colonies\". According to the movement's \"Maha Media\" news portal, a \"Maharishi Peace Colony\" is a \"community founded to help create invincibility for a nation, based on the principles of Maharishi's Vedic Science and its practical applications for living perfection in all areas of life—featuring homes and buildings for group practice of Yogic Flying—all built according to Vedic Architecture, Maharishi Sthapatya Veda.\"\n\nThe city plan and buildings of Maharishi Vedic City (MVC) are based on Maharishi Sthapatya Veda. The Maharishi Vedic City is the first settlement to be built entirely on Vedic principles. Easterling says that the city is an intentional community which epitomizes the idea that the personal and communal practice of TM brings a sense of well-being. As the center of the Global Country of World Peace, Easterling says that it reflects the GCWP's interest in achieving a \"benign form of global sovereignty\".\n\nIn addition to Maharishi Vedic City, there are several developments around Fairfield that are being built according to Maharishi Vastu design standards and the latest sustainability technologies.\n\nHeavenly Mountain is a development near Boone. The developers, Earl and David Kaplan, had purchased a total of by 1993 and developed a portion of the land between 1996 and 1998. Several years later, Kaplan \"sold most of the land for the Laurelmor development\".\n\nA part of the development became the Spiritual Center of America (SCA), a TM-related, non-profit, owned by Upper Blue Mountain Holdings LLC, which is reported to be controlled by Kaplan's extended family, took up and included a state-accredited university offering degrees in \"consciousness-based studies\". SCA became the home for the Purusha (men) and Mother Divine (women) groups which practice the TM and TM-Sidhi programs in monastic settings. The groups had separate campuses, built to MVA and Underwriters Laboratories codes. SCA failed to gain an exemption from county taxes after a 2003 state Supreme Court ruling that the facility did not qualify as an \"educational, scientific or charitable institution\".\n\nOne thousand acres (4 km²) were set aside for development as a luxury resort by the for-profit Heavenly Mountain, with over a hundred lots for sale. A 2006 article in the \"High Country Press\" reported that a premium on the home prices helped to fund the SCA. The project was controversial in the area until Kaplan reached out to the community. However, Kaplan, a Purusha group member who left the group to marry, broke away from the movement in 2004 and decided to develop the land commercially. The SCA was evicted in 2006. Some home buyers were upset about being evicted and filed lawsuits and as of 2006, 44 condos and homes were still occupied.\n\nAccording to a TM organization web site, the Mother Divine group had secured a residence and site for the Maharishi University of Enlightenment at the Heavenly Mountain location. The facilities, called East Campus, were described as rooms and suites for about 200 females, along with dining and lecture halls, totaling almost of indoor space. The purchase price was estimated by Bevan Morris, Prime Minister of the GWCP, to be one-seventh of the cost for new construction. The remaining 381 acres and 26 buildings of the Heavenly Mountain facility were sold for $6.35 million in 2011 to Blue Ridge Preservation Inc., who intend to work with the Art of Living Foundation and related groups.\n\nThe Maharishi Purusha Capital of the Western World is located on purchased by the Global Country of World Peace in 2009. This followed the Maharishi's call in 2007 to immediately establish a Purusha capital in the Blue Ridge Mountains, according to the Purusha website. It is in the Three Churches area of Hampshire County near Romney, West Virginia. The property will be designated a Global Capital and will include a palace for the Maharaja and residences for the Raja of Invincible America and the Prime Minister. Accommodations for 150–200 people, including 120 professional meditators, are being constructed. The Purusha website mentions the advantages of having as many as 800 \"administrators of Global Raam Raj\" so close to the nation's capital. The buildings are planned to be built to Vastu and LEED standards. The land cost $750,000 and the construction is budgeted to cost between $10 and $15 million. Bob LoPinto, the Raja of Potomac Vedic America (regional director), is overseeing the project. A nearby but separate medical center or spa is also being considered. An announcement on the Purusha Capital web site dated December 15, 2011 stated that \"today we received all of our occupancy permits and so the Maharishi Purusha Capital of the Western World is now officially open!\"\n\nThe Maharishi Garden Village is a 30-home settlement in Rendlesham, Suffolk. The movement had sought to purchase the former Bentwaters Air Force Base in 1995 for use as a campus but the deal, contingent on planning approval, fell through. The movement's MVA Homes won approval for a development plan on the former base for 30 homes and 24 apartments. On January 12, 2008, the Maharishi's birthday, construction of a 12-story Maharishi Tower of Invincibility was inaugurated on the site. In February 2008, MVA Homes submitted plans to build a £2 million, three-story, 33-bedroom Peace Palace in Rendlesham. It would be part of the 30-home, 24-apartment Maharishi Peace Colony. The plans were approved two months later, despite community concerns. The building will replace a center in Badingham that was used for 25 years. As of 2010, 26 homes had been built and sold, with the remaining 6 to be built in 2011.\n\nAccording to the TM movement, the \"auspicious\" Brahmasthan (center point) of India is near Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh. The site has MVA housing for thousands of pandits who perform Vedic chants. The MVA design is said to amplify the power of their peace-promoting rituals. The project is overseen by Girish Varma, one of the Maharishi's nephews. A series of \"parliaments\", including the \"Maharishi Parliament of World Peace in the field of culture and religion\", was held there in 2006, according to a movement press release. A documentary filmmaker sneaked into the facility in 2009 and found, in the words of \"Variety\", a \"ghost town\". In 2010, a press release announced plans for new residential and visitor facilities, including 30 western-style suites.\n\nThe Brahmasthan of America is near Smith Center, Kansas, the geographic center of the contiguous United States. The County Commission initially passed a development moratorium to block the project but changed their decision after being threatened with a federal lawsuit. In regard to the local opposition, Eric Michener, the project coordinator for the GCWP, told a reporter, \"I don't think we've run into this vibrant level of misunderstanding before\". The group failed to receive an endorsement from the county commission when it sought a $38 million tax-exempt bond from the state. One palace is near completion and several others are in various stages of progress. In April 2010, a local newspaper reported that there was no activity on the site.\n\nMandala Club was promoted in 2005 as a green development in Indian River County, Florida, that would be designed with Vedic principles. Three model homes were approved, out of a total of 90 planned, and the houses were estimated to cost $988,000 each. The property went into foreclosure and was sold in 2010.\n\nAfter hearing a presentation on MVA at the National Building Museum in 2005, a \"Washington Post\" reporter said that \"non-adherents\" may find the principles \"eccentric, to say the least,\" as houses not facing east or north are said by MVA adherents to be \"practically begging inauspicious forces to sweep in and wreak havoc.\" The reporter goes on to say that many architects would not \"quibble\" with other components of MVA such as \"balance and symmetry\", a vastu fence or wall and \"solar influenced\" placement of rooms in the home.\n\n\"Los Angeles Times\" travel writer Carina Chocano writes that Maharishi Vedic City \"displays all the architectural characteristics of a new exurban development: gaudy, oversize construction that has no stylistic relation to its environment but instead vaguely alludes to a theme-park version, someplace sort of magical and far away.\"\n\nOfficial site \n"}
{"id": "20224767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20224767", "title": "Marxism and religion", "text": "Marxism and religion\n\n19th century German philosopher Karl Marx, the founder and primary theorist of Marxism, had an antithetical and complex attitude to religion, viewing it primarily as \"the soul of soulless conditions\", the \"opium of the people\" that had been useful to the ruling classes since it gave the working classes false hope for millennia. At the same time, Marx saw religion as a form of protest by the working classes against their poor economic conditions and their alienation. In the Marxist–Leninist interpretation of Marxist theory, primarily developed by Georgian revolutionary and Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, religion is seen as retarding human development. Due to this, a number of Marxist–Leninist governments in the 20th century, such as the Soviet Union after Vladimir Lenin and the People's Republic of China under Mao Zedong, implemented rules introducing state atheism.\n\nKarl Marx's religious views have been the subject of much interpretation. He famously stated in \"Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right\": \n\nAccording to Howard Zinn, Marx \"saw religion, not just negatively as 'the opium of the people,' but positively as the 'sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, the soul of soulless conditions.' This helps us understand the mass appeal of the religious charlatans of the television screen, as well as the work of Liberation Theology in joining the soulfulness of religion to the energy of revolutionary movements in miserably poor countries\". Some recent scholarship has suggested that \"opium of the people\" is itself a dialectical metaphor, a \"protest\" and an \"expression\" of suffering.\n\nCertainly, Marx did not object to a spiritual life. Rather, he thought it was necessary. In the \"Wages of Labour\" (1844), Marx wrote: \"To develop in greater spiritual freedom, a people must break their bondage to their bodily needs—they must cease to be the slaves of the body. They must, above all, have time at their disposal for spiritual creative activity and spiritual enjoyment.\"\n\nVladimir Lenin was highly critical of religion, saying in his book \"Religion\": Atheism is a natural and inseparable part of Marxism, of the theory and practice of scientific socialism.\n\nIn \"The Attitude of the Workers’ Party to Religion\", he wrote: Religion is the opium of the people: this saying of Marx is the cornerstone of the entire ideology of Marxism about religion. All modern religions and churches, all and of every kind of religious organizations are always considered by Marxism as the organs of bourgeois reaction, used for the protection of the exploitation and the stupefaction of the working class.\n\nHowever, while Lenin was critical of religion, he also specifically made a point to not include it in \"Our Programme\" or his ideological goals by saying: But under no circumstances ought we to fall into the error of posing the religious question in an abstract, idealistic fashion, as an “intellectual” question unconnected with the class struggle, as is not infrequently done by the radical-democrats from among the bourgeoisie. It would be stupid to think that, in a society based on the endless oppression and coarsening of the worker masses, religious prejudices could be dispelled by purely propaganda methods. It would be bourgeois narrow-mindedness to forget that the yoke of religion that weighs upon mankind is merely a product and reflection of the economic yoke within society. No number of pamphlets and no amount of preaching can enlighten the proletariat, if it is not enlightened by its own struggle against the dark forces of capitalism. Unity in this really revolutionary struggle of the oppressed class for the creation of a paradise on earth is more important to us than unity of proletarian opinion on paradise in heaven.\n\nIn their influential book \"The ABC of Communism\", Nikolai Bukharin and Evgenii Preobrazhensky spoke out strongly against religion. \"Communism is incompatible with religious faith\", they wrote.\n\nHowever, importance was placed on secularism and non-violence towards the religious: But the campaign against the backwardness of the masses in this matter of religion, must be conducted with patience and considerateness, as well as with energy and perseverance. The credulous crowd is extremely sensitive to anything which hurts its feelings. To thrust atheism upon the masses, and in conjunction therewith to interfere forcibly with religious practices and to make mock of the objects of popular reverence, would not assist but would hinder the campaign against religion. If the church were to be persecuted, it would win sympathy among the masses, for persecution would remind them of the almost forgotten days when there was an association between religion and the defence of national freedom; it would strengthen the antisemitic movement; and in general it would mobilize all the vestiges of an ideology which is already beginning to die out.\n\nThe Soviet Union was an atheist state in which religion was largely discouraged and at times heavily persecuted. According to various Soviet and Western sources, over one-third of the country's people still professed religious belief (Christianity and Islam had the most believers). Christians belonged to various churches: Orthodox, which had the largest number of followers; Catholic; and Baptist and other Protestant denominations. The majority of the Islamic faithful were Sunni while Judaism also had many followers. Other religions, which were practiced by a relatively small number of believers, included Buddhism and Shamanism. However it should be noted that after 1941 in the stalin era , religious persecution was greatly reduced. To gather support from the masses during WW2 , the stalin government re-opened thousands of temples and extinguished the league of militant atheists. Atheist propaganda returned to a lesser extent during the Khruschev government, and continued in a less strict way during the Breszhnev years.\n\nThe role of religion in the daily lives of Soviet citizens varied greatly, but two-thirds of the Soviet population were irreligious. About half the people, including members of the ruling Communist Party and high-level government officials, professed atheism. For the majority of Soviet citizens, religion seemed irrelevant. Prior to its collapse in late 1991, official figures on religion in the Soviet Union were not available. State atheism in the Soviet Union was known as \"gosateizm\".\n\nAlbania was declared an atheist state by Enver Hoxha. Religion in Albania was subordinated in the interest of nationalism during periods of national revival, when it was identified as foreign predation to Albanian culture. During the late 19th century and also when Albania became a state, religions were suppressed in order to better unify Albanians. This nationalism was also used to justify the communist stance of state atheism between 1967 and 1991. This policy was mainly applied and felt within the borders of the present Albanian state, thus producing a nonreligious majority in the population.\n\nThe People's Republic of China was established in 1949 and for much of its early history maintained a hostile attitude toward religion which was seen as emblematic of feudalism and foreign colonialism. Houses of worship, including temples, mosques and churches, were converted into non-religious buildings for secular use. However, this attitude relaxed considerably in the late 1970s with the end of the Cultural Revolution. The 1978 Constitution of the People's Republic of China guaranteed \"freedom of religion\" with a number of restrictions. Since the mid-1990s, there has been a massive program to rebuild Buddhist and Taoist temples that were destroyed in the Cultural Revolution. However, the Communist Party of China still remains explicitly atheist and religion is heavily regulated, with only specific state-operated churches, mosques and temples being allowed for worship.\n\nPol Pot, leader of the Khmer Rouge regime, suppressed Cambodia’s Buddhist religion as monks were defrocked; temples and artifacts, including statues of the Buddha, were destroyed; and people praying or expressing other religious sentiments were often killed. The Christian and Muslim communities were among the most persecuted as well. The Roman Catholic cathedral of Phnom Penh was razed. The Khmer Rouge forced Muslims to eat pork, which they regard as an abomination. Many of those who refused were killed. Christian clergy and Muslim imams were executed.\n\nAfter the overthrow of the Khmer Rouge, a socialist state more reflective of the values shared by Vietnam and allies of the Soviet Union was established. Oppression of religious groups was nearly totally ended and relations between religious groups and the People's Republic of Kampuchea were much more neutral throughout its existence until the restoration of the monarchy a decade later.\n\nIn contrast with the brutal repression of the sangha undertaken in Cambodia, the Communist government of Laos has not sought to oppose or suppress Buddhism in Laos to any great degree, rather since the early days of the Pathet Lao communist officials have sought to use the influence and respect afforded to Buddhist clergy to achieve political goals while discouraging religious practices seen as detrimental to Marxist aims.\n\nStarting as early as the late 1950s, members of the Pathet Lao sought to encourage support for the communist cause by aligning members of the Lao sangha with the communist opposition. Though resisted by the Royal Lao Government, these efforts were fairly successful and resulted in increased support for the Pathet Lao, particularly in rural communities.\n\nThere are many similarities and differences between the schools of thought, but one of the most common things they share are the time frame within which both ideologies were founded as well as some social and economic perspective. A book by the Association for Bahai Studies was written as a dialogue between the two schools of thought. Analysis reveals that the Bahá'í Faith as both a doctrinal manifest and as a present-day emerging organised community is highly cooperative in nature with elements that correspond to various threads of Marxist thought, anarchist thought and more recent liberational thought innovations. Such elements include, for example, no clergy and themes that relate to mutualism, libertarian socialism and democratic confederalism.\n\nChristian communism can be seen as a radical form of Christian socialism. It is a theological and political theory based upon the view that the teachings of Jesus Christ compel Christians to support communism as the ideal social system. Although there is no universal agreement on the exact date when Christian communism was founded, many Christian communists assert that evidence from the Bible suggests that the first Christians, including the Apostles, created their own small communist society in the years following Jesus' death and resurrection. As such, many advocates of Christian communism argue that it was taught by Jesus and practiced by the Apostles themselves.\n\nIn \"\", Friedrich Engels draws a certain analogy between the sort of utopian communalism of some of the early Christian communities and the modern-day communist movement, the scientific communist movement representing the proletariat in this era and its world historic transformation of society. Engels noted both certain similarities and certain contrasts.\n\nIn the 1950s and the 1960s, liberation theology was the political praxis of Latin American theologians, such as Gustavo Gutiérrez of Peru, Leonardo Boff of Brazil, Juan Luis Segundo of Uruguay and Jon Sobrino of Spain, who made popular the phrase the \"Preferential option for the poor\". Consisting of a synthesis of Christian theology and Marxist socioeconomic analyses, liberation theology stresses social concern for the poor and advocates for liberation for oppressed peoples. In addition to being a theological matter, liberation theology was often tied to concrete political practice.\n\nWhile liberation theology was most influential in Latin America, it has also been developed in other parts of the world such as black theology in the United States and South Africa, Palestinian liberation theology, Dalit theology in India and Minjung theology in South Korea.\n\nFrom the 1940s through the 1960s, communists and Islamists sometimes joined forces in opposing colonialism and seeking national independence. The communist Tudeh Party of Iran was allied with the Islamists in their ultimately successful rebellion against the Shah Pahlavi in 1979, although after the Shah was overthrown the Islamists turned on their one-time allies. The People's Mujahedin of Iran, an exiled political party which opposes the Islamic Republic, once advocated communist ideals, but has since abandoned them.\n\nCommunist philosopher Mir-Said (Mirza) Sultan-Galiev, Joseph Stalin's protégé at the People's Commissariat for Nationalities (Narkomnats), wrote in \"The Life of Nationalities\", the Narkomnats' journal.\n\nDuring the Russian Civil War, Jews were seen as communist sympathizers and thousands were murdered in pogroms by the White Army. During the Red Scare in the United States in the 1950s, a representative of the American Jewish Committee assured the powerful House Committee on Un-American Activities that \"Judaism and communism are utterly incompatible\". On the other hand, some orthodox Jews, including a number of prominent religious figures, actively supported either anarchist or Marxist versions of communism. Examples include Rabbi Yehuda Ashlag, an outspoken libertarian communist, Russian revolutionary and territorialist leader Isaac Steinberg and Rabbi Abraham Bik, an American communist activist.\n\nBuddhism has been said to be compatible with communism given that both can be interpreted as atheistic and arguably share some similarities regarding their views of the world of nature and the relationship between matter and mind. Regardless, Buddhists have still been persecuted in some Communist states, notably China, Mongolia and Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge.\n\nMany supporters of the Viet Cong were Buddhists, strongly believing in the unification of Vietnam, with many opposing South Vietnam due to former President Ngo Dinh Diem's persecution of Buddhism during the early 1960s.\n\nThe current Dalai Lama Tenzin Gyatso speaks positively of Marxism despite the heavy persecution of the Tibetan people by the post-Mao Zedong and post-Cultural Revolution Chinese government.\n\nBecause of the perceived atheistic nature of communism, some have accused communism of persecuting religion. In addition, another criticism is that communism is in itself a religion.\n\nThroughout the Second Red Scare, the fear of the \"Godless communist\" rooted itself as an epithet and a warning to the United States in a changing global environment. As the perceived threat of the \"Godless communist\" and materialism to the American way of life grew, \"the choice between Americanism and Communism was vital, without room for compromise\".\n\n"}
{"id": "148607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148607", "title": "Møn", "text": "Møn\n\nMøn is an island in south-eastern Denmark. Until 1 January 2007, it was a municipality in its own right but it is now part of the municipality of Vordingborg, after merging with the former municipalities of Langebæk, Præstø, and Vordingborg. This has created a municipality with an area of and a total population of 46,307 (2005). It belongs to the Region Sjælland (\"Zealand Region\"). Møn is one of Denmark's most popular destinations for tourists with its white chalk cliffs, countryside, sandy beaches and the market town of Stege. In June 2017, UNESCO designated Møn as Denmark's first biosphere reserve, consisting of \"a series of islands and islets in the southern Baltic Sea, over approximately 45,118 hectares (131,890 acres). Its landscapes include woodlands, grasslands, meadows, wetlands, coastal areas, ponds and steep hills.\"\n\nMøn is located just off the south-eastern tip of Zealand from which it is separated by the waters of the \"Hølen\" strait between Kalvehave and the island of Nyord, at the northern end of Møn. Further south is Stege Bay. At the narrowest point between the two islands, the waters are referred to as Wolf Strait (\"Ulvsund\"), which is the primary strait separating Møn from Zealand.\n\nTo the southwest is Stubbekøbing on the island of Falster, which is separated from Møn by the Grønsund (Green Strait).\nThere are a number of islands in the waters off Møn, including Nyord and Bogø, the smaller island of Farø, as well as the islands of Langø, Tærø and Lilleø off the coast of Zealand. The island of Lindholm in Stege Bugt is state-owned, and is the location for the State Veterinary Institute for Virus Research (\"Statens Veterinære Institut for Virusforskning\").\n\nMøn is connected to Zealand at the town of Kalvehave by the Queen Alexandrine Bridge. The bridge opened for traffic on 30 May 1943, and is named after Queen Alexandrine, the Queen Consort of King Christian X. The bridge is long and considered to be one of Denmark's most attractive bridges.\n\nAt the south-western corner, Møn disconnects by causeway to the island of Bogø. From Bogø another causeway connects to the small island of Farø, which acts as the centre point for the Farø Bridges carrying the motorway between Zealand and Falster. The north Farø bridge has a span of , the south bridge a span of with a central span for shipping. The central span is supported by cables from two pylons which raise the bridge above sea level. The bridge was completed in 1984 and forms part of Euroroute E47 from Copenhagen (and Helsingborg) to Lübeck (and thence Hamburg and the south).\n\nAt the north-western tip of Møn there is a narrow bridge to the small island of Nyord.\n\nStege, the largest town on the island of Møn, is situated approximately at the centre point of the island at the mouth of Stege Nor, a lake which connects directly to the sea. The population is around 4,000. The town has a great deal of charm with historic buildings, a marina and several restaurants and cafes. Stege Church built in the Romanesque style dates from the early 13th century. The annual \"Stege Festival\" takes place every Tuesday in July, and the first Tuesday in August.\n\nMøn is known for its natural beauty, sandy beaches, fresco-decorated churches, Stone Age and Bronze Age passage graves and monuments, and Møns Klint (\"The White Cliffs of Møn\"), the island's most popular attraction.\n\nThe cliffs, c. 6 km long and up to 128 metres tall, are Denmark's highest, and support a unique set of natural habitats. Access to the narrow beach is via a flight of 500 steps from the parking area set within the beech forest behind the cliffs. The GeoCenter Møns Klint, a geological museum tracing the origins of Denmark and the formation of the cliffs opened there in May 2007. The combination of chalk in the subsoil with a dry local climate, and its agricultural use consisting primarily of cattle grazing, has created some of Denmark's richest meadowlands. The chalk was transported to Møn during the fourth, and most recent, major ice age.\nAnother attraction close to the cliffs is Liselund, the romantic summer residence erected in the 1790s by French nobleman Antoine de Bosc de la Calmette for his wife, Lise. The miniature thatched palace and grounds were designed by Andreas Kirkerup, one of the foremost landscape architects of the times. A larger house was constructed in the park in 1887 by Baron Fritz Rosenkrantz, which is now a hotel. The park is open to the public and includes the original thatched manor house, Swiss cottage, Chinese tea house and Norwegian log cabin. Calmette was also responsible for the park at Marienborg, to the west of Stege.\n\nAt the north-western corner of Møn is a narrow bridge to the island of Nyord. The small village on the island has a number of quaint cottages and farmhouses as well as a unique octagonal church and a small harbour. Nyord is an important habitat for geese, ducks and other wading birds. There is a bird-watching tower for the use of visitors.\nAt the south-western corner, Møn connects by causeway to the 5 by 7 km island of Bogø. The island has a preserved windmill, an old bording school and a summer ferry to Stubbekøbing.\nMøn has a number of interesting churches decorated with frescos. Fanefjord Church dates back to the 13th century, and has a set of recently restored frescos painted in 1450 by the Elmelunde Master. Frescos can also be seen in Elmelunde Church, the oldest church on the island, with parts dating from the start of the 12th century. Keldby Church has a unique altarpiece and is also richly decorated with frescos. Another interesting church is the one at Damsholte. It is one of the finest Rococo buildings in Denmark and the only village church built in the Rococo style.\n\nThe oldest and perhaps most impressive burial mound on Møn is Grønsalen near Fanefjord Church. The 100 m by 10 m barrow is from around 3500 BC. According to legend, it is the resting place of Chief Grønjæger (Greenranger) and his wife Queen Fane, after whom Grønsund and Fanefjord were named. There are also barrows at Raaby and Busemarke. There is also a 5,000-year-old round burial barrow at Sømarke, and others at Jættestue and Jordehøj. Kong Asgers Høj at Sprove is the largest gallery grave in Denmark, more than 4,000 years old. It has been fully excavated and can be visited inside. There is another round barrow at nearby Rundysse, and a further recently restored 9 metre long double passage gallery grave at Klekkende Høj from the Neolithic age c. 4,500 years old.\n\nThorsvang, Danmarks Samlermuseum is a museum of collectables arranged in a number of old shops typical of the early 20th century. It is located in the Lendemarke district of Stege.\n\nThere is a jewellery museum in the little village of Damme and near Keldbylille, there is a museum (Museumsgaarden) depicting life on a Møn farm as it was 100 years ago. There are also several art galleries and arts and crafts centres on the island.\n\nMøn also has a number of popular beach resorts, particularly in East Møn with Ulvshale to the north and Råbylille Strand, Klintholm Havn and Hårbølle on the south side of the island.\n\nThere is evidence that people lived in Denmark more than 100,000 years ago, but the area became covered with ice during the last ice age. People returned to Møn about 10,000 years ago during the Upper Paleolithic era. At that time the island was part of mainland Europe.\n\nDuring the Mesolithic era (6800-3900 BC) there is evidence from findings of small flint and bone tools that inhabitants of the island lived by hunting and fishing. The landscape was largely wooded, with hazel and increasingly oak and alder trees. From around 5400 BC reforestation was complete, forming an inaccessible forest and forcing out the last of the big animals such as aurochs and elk. Human habitations have been found along the eastern coast.\n\nThe Neolithic era, (3900-1700 BC) saw the start of cattle farming spreading inland from the coastal settlements. Flint axes were used, and trading occurred in flint, gold, copper and bronze. This era saw the start of barrow building for the dead, and settlements have been found at Rødkilde. Barrows became larger, longer and contained multiple burials. More than 100 large graves have been found on Møn. The period from 2400–1700 is known as Doltktiden, after the flint daggers which became common at that time. Bronze was also in use, imported from the south.\n\nAround 2000 BC, a new wave of people arrived on Møn, the Stridsøksekulturen (the battleaxe people). They brought with them goats, sheep and horses, and their trademark stone battleaxes. They used simpler graves with small round mounds.\n\nBronze became more common, hence the period 1700-500 BC became the Bronze Age and flint ceased to be used for tools. Large round mounds were used for burial, and more than 200 of these have been found on Møn. Each mound covered a single grave, containing a coffin made from a single split and hollowed oak tree. From 1000-500 BC, graves became smaller and cremation began to be practiced. Graves were encircled by a ring of stones. Fewer items were buried with the dead, as a result of changes in society which made grave robbing more likely.\n\nFrom 500 BC, iron began to be used in the Pre-Roman Iron Age. The climate became cooler and wetter, causing difficulties for agriculture. Few remains have been found from the period 500-0 BC, but Celtic culture became an influence.\n\nThe Roman Empire stopped short of Denmark, but from 0-400 AD in the Roman Iron Age there is evidence of imported Roman goods in silver, bronze and gold. Little has been found from the post-Roman Germanic Iron Age until about 800 AD. Two treasure hoards have been found on Møn from the Viking Age 800-1050.\n\nThe last recorded independent ruler of the island of Møn was Hemming, son of Sigvard Snogøje (Sigvard Snake-eye) in the early 10th century, who carried out raids on other territories. Møn itself was subject to raids, particularly Wends from Rügen and Fehmarn.\n\nFrom 900-1000 AD forests were steadily cleared and there was a profitable trade in grain with the Baltic countries. The relative wealth and large population of the island is indicated by the large number of churches built at that time. However, this wealth increased the likelihood of Vendian raids. This in turn led to the deliberate retention of some coastal forest areas as protection against raiders.\n\nThe construction of the castle of Stegeborg was around 1220 in timber, then rebuilt in brick by 1245, despite this being a relatively peaceful period. On the death of King Valdemar II in 1241, a dispute arose over the succession, which led to the island being raided by Lubeckers who took the part of one of the claimants, Knud Duke of Blekinge who was imprisoned by his brother Erik Plovpenning (king 1241-1250) in Stegeborg. The Lubeckers conquered Copenhagen, then Stege to release the Duke. These raids continued intermittently into the 16th century. The succession wars also led to further raids in 1260 when the island was seized by Prince Järmer of Rügen. The Germans gained rights to establish a trading outpost at Brøndhøj. A Norwegian, Alf Ellingsen, was also attracted by the island, defeating a defending fleet of 30 vessels to raid Møn and other islands during the reign of Erik Glipping (1259–1286). Glipping granted Stege a town charter, granting it sole rights to trade and tax certain commodities, which existed until 1857.\n\nFrom the middle of the 12th to the mid-17th century, Møn became a Danish crown property and was managed by a feudal lord. Its relative importance meant that appointments were made from the ranks of highest Danish nobility. The lord had responsibility for maintaining order and collecting taxes, hosting visits from royalty and important guests, and judging legal disputes. As a royal possession, the island was used as surety against loans made to the crown, and passed into various hands while debts remained unpaid. This gave the pledge holders the right to extract whatever revenue they could from the island while it remained pledged as security. Prince Witslav of Rügen held the island for 20 years from 1286, resulting in rebellions against him and further Norwegian raids.\n\nThe island, and Stege in particular, prospered in the 14th century from the results of herring fishing, reaching the height of its wealth around 1500. It adopted a coat of arms including three herrings, and the town defences were strengthened. Around 1430 a rampart, wall and moat were created around the town by Eric VII. Three towers were created at each of the main approach roads, of which only Møllerporten still survives. However, the fortifications were no defence against fire, which at one point destroyed the greater part of the town, or against the plague.\n\nIn 1447, King Christopher III granted the town rights to trade outside Møn, within the remainder of Denmark. In 1450, Christian I forbade farmers to trade goods outside of Denmark, with the result that they sailed directly to Germany to sell their goods, bypassing the town of Stege, which was starved of goods and revenue. In 1476, the town received confirmation of its historic rights and, in 1481, a further law forbade foreigners trading with farmers on Møn. This was reaffirmed by King Hans in 1507.\n\nIn 1510, the Lubeckers attacked Møn in retaliation for the trade sanctions, failing to take Stege but destroying the island's second largest town, Borre. The trade war continued, and in 1524 Frederick I again felt the need to repeat the ban on trade on Møn anywhere except in the town of Stege. In 1533, Frederick died leading again to a dispute over the crown. The townspeople sided with the previously deposed Christian II, but the castle was in the hands of Christian III. As a result, the castle was taken by deceit by townspeople and blown up. The four leaders were hanged, but the castle was not rebuilt. In 1538, Christian III once again repeated the trade ban, as the citizens of Stege still could not obtain sufficient food for the town.\n\nAt the start of the 16th century, around 2000 people lived in Stege. However, the herring fisheries were in decline and the town was taxed heavily to pay for continuing wars. Farmers began to sell goods to the harbour at Grønsund, and the island was again pledged against a debt. By 1582 Frederick II was obliged to cut taxes on the town and waive unpaid back taxes, as the town was effectively bankrupt. In 1583, trade with Germany was again banned. Christian IV granted land outside Stege to the town so that the inhabitants might grow food for themselves. In 1627, more land was granted.\n\nThe death of Christian IV in 1648 meant the end of the 30-year war, but his successor Frederick III commenced war against Sweden. Copenhagen was occupied and Swedes sought to invade Møn by walking across the ice from Zealand. This was prevented by the islanders, who maintained a three-mile long opening in the ice to stop the invasion force. However, in May 1659, 3,000 Swedes invaded from the island of Bogø against a force of 500 defenders. Stege was occupied, the town hall and 300 farms destroyed, the island looted and the harvest lost. At the end of the war, in 1660, the island's population was reduced to 670.\n\nFrederick III introduced direct rule, replacing feudal regions with counties and attempted to restore the economy. However, in 1664 Møn was again pledged against loans, this time to a Dutchman Gabriel Marselis. In 1684, the pledge was redeemed, at which time Stege was half in ruins, almost all the forests had been cut down and many farms had been abandoned. In 1685, four battalions of cavalry were sent to the island and stationed at Marienborg. To build barracks at Marienborg, their commander Colonel Von Plessen demolished damaged buildings in Stege to re-use their stone, including the town wall and two of the gate towers. The third was converted into a prison. In 1696, the further depredation of the island was discovered by the authorities, and Plessen was himself imprisoned. All taxes on the island were cancelled for two years.\n\nIn 1703, an attempt was made to found a navigation school in Stege. This failed, but generally the Danish economy was beginning to recover from the long period of wars. In 1769, Crown property on Møn was sold which allowed farmers to buy their own land and wealthy individuals to create estates and begin to settle on the island. In 1774, a major fire destroyed 112 properties in the northern part of Stege, but by 1782 there were four distilleries in the town, and by 1807, 18.\n\nIn 1733, Christian VI introduced a law compelling peasants to remain on the estate where they were born until the age of 36. This was to provide a fixed work force, but also aid military conscription. The law was abolished in 1788 by the then regent, later to become Frederick VI.\n\nBy 1789, the population of Stege had climbed to 791 with 7,000 people on the island. In 1797, Antoine de Calmette was placed in charge of the county, and was, for once, a respected leader.\n\nIn 1857, the town trade monopoly was finally abolished.\n\nAt the start of the 20th century about 14,000 people lived on the island. This figure then fell, but stabilised in the 1970s.\n\nTourism plays an important role in the local economy. One of the largest employers is Bisca, a manufacturer of cakes and biscuits headquartered in Stege. Møns Bank traces its history back to 1877. About one third of its customers live on the island. The old town hall in Stege was converted into a centre for entrepreneurship in 2008 and is now home to some 10 start-ups.\n\nIn June 2010, Møn hosted the 30th world vintage bicycle rally for the International Veteran Cycle Association. Some 150 enthusiasts from 17 countries visited the island with their historic pedal bicycles from 2 to 6 June. One of the challenges for the participants was to clock up between sunrise and sunset on velocipedes built between 1818 and 1960. Apart from countries across Europe, some participants came from as far as Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47487167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47487167", "title": "Optimism", "text": "Optimism\n\nOptimism is a mental attitude reflecting a belief or hope that the outcome of some specific endeavor, or outcomes in general, will be positive, favorable, and desirable. A common idiom used to illustrate optimism versus pessimism is a glass filled with water to the halfway point: an optimist is said to see the glass as half full, while a pessimist sees the glass as half empty.\n\nThe term derives from the Latin \"optimum\", meaning \"best\". Being optimistic, in the typical sense of the word, is defined as expecting the best possible outcome from any given situation. This is usually referred to in psychology as dispositional optimism. It thus reflects a belief that future conditions will work out for the best.\n\nTheories of optimism include dispositional models, and models of explanatory style. Methods to measure optimism have been developed within both theoretical systems, such as various forms of the Life Orientation Test, for the original definition of optimism, or the Attributional Style Questionnaire designed to test optimism in terms of explanatory style.\n\nVariation in optimism and pessimism is somewhat heritable and reflects biological trait systems to some degree. It is also influenced by environmental factors, including family environment, with some suggesting it can be learned. Optimism may also be linked to health.\n\nResearchers operationalize the term differently depending on their research. As with any trait characteristic, there are several ways to evaluate optimism, such as the Life Orientation Test (LOT).\n\nDispositional optimism and pessimism are typically assessed by asking people whether they expect future outcomes to be beneficial or negative (see below). The LOT returns separate optimism and pessimism scores for each individual. Behaviourally, these two scores correlate around r = 0.5. Optimistic scores on this scale predict better outcomes in relationships, higher social status, and reduced loss of well-being following adversity. Health preserving behaviors are associated with optimism while health-damaging behaviors are associated with pessimism.\n\nSome have argued that pessimism and optimism are ends of a single dimension, with any distinction between them reflecting factors such as social desirability. Confirmatory modelling, however, supports a two-dimensional model and the two dimensions predict different outcomes. Genetic modelling confirms this independence, showing that pessimism and optimism are inherited as independent traits, with the typical correlation between them emerging as a result of a general well-being factor and family environment influences.\n\nExplanatory style is distinct from dispositional theories of optimism. While related to life-orientation measures of optimism, attributional style theory suggests that dispositional optimism and pessimism are reflections of the ways people explain events, i.e., that attributions cause these dispositions . Measures of attributional style distinguish three dimensions among explanations for events: Whether these explanations draw on internal versus external causes; whether the causes are viewed as stable versus unstable; and whether explanations apply globally versus being situationally specific. In addition, the measures distinguish attributions for positive and for negative events.\n\nAn optimistic person attributes internal, stable, and global explanations to good things. Pessimistic explanations attribute these traits of stability, globality, and internality to negative events, such as difficulty in relationships. Models of Optimistic and Pessimistic attributions show that attributions themselves are a cognitive style – individuals who tend to focus on the global explanations do so for all types of events, and the styles correlate among each other. In addition to this, individuals vary in how optimistic their attributions are for good events, and on how pessimistic their attributions are for bad events, but these two traits of optimism and pessimism are un-correlated.\n\nThere is much debate about the relationship between explanatory style and optimism. Some researchers argue that optimism is simply the lay-term for what researchers know as explanatory style. More commonly, it is found that explanatory style is quite distinct from dispositional optimism, and the two should not be used interchangeably as they are marginally correlated at best. More research is required to \"bridge\" or further differentiate these concepts.\n\nAs with all psychological traits, differences in both dispositional optimism and pessimism and in attributional style are heritable. Both optimism and pessimism are strongly influenced by environmental factors, including family environment. It has been suggested that optimism may be indirectly inherited as a reflection of underlying heritable traits such as intelligence, temperament and alcoholism. Many theories assume optimism can be learned, and research supports a modest role of family-environment acting to raise (or lower) optimism and lower (or raise) neuroticism and pessimism.\n\nWork utilising brain imaging and biochemistry suggests that at a biological trait level, optimism and pessimism reflect brain systems specialised for the tasks of processing and incorporating beliefs regarding good and bad information respectively.\n\nThe Life Orientation Test (LOT) was designed by Scheier and Carver (1985) to assess dispositional optimism – expecting positive or negative outcomes, and is one of the more popular tests of optimism and pessimism. There are eight items and four filler items. Four are positive items (e.g. \"\"In uncertain times, I usually expect the best\") and four are negative items e.g. \"If something can go wrong for me, it will.\"\" The LOT has been revised twice—once by the original creators (LOT-R) and also by Chang, Maydeu-Olivares, and D'Zurilla as the Extended Life Orientation Test (ELOT). The Revised Life Orientation Test (LOT-R: Scheier, Carver, & Bridges, 1994) consists of 6 items, each scored on a 5-point scale from \"Strongly disagree\" to \"Strongly agree\".\n\nThis Attributional Style Questionnaire (ASQ: Peterson et al. 1982 ) is based on the explanatory style model of optimism. Subjects read a list of six positive and negative events (e.g. \"you have been looking for a job unsuccessfully for some time\"), and are asked to record a possible cause for the event. They then rate whether this is internal or external, stable or changeable, and global or local to the event. There are several modified versions of the ASQ including the Expanded Attributional Style Questionnaire (EASQ), the Content Analysis of Verbatim Explanations (CAVE), and the ASQ designed for testing the optimism of children.\n\nOptimism and health are correlated moderately. Optimism has been shown to explain between 5–10% of the variation in the likelihood of developing some health conditions (correlation coefficients between .20 and .30), notably including cardiovascular disease, stroke, and depression.\n\nThe relationship between optimism and health has also been studied with regards to physical symptoms, coping strategies and negative affect for those suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, and fibromyalgia.\n\nIt has been found that among individuals with these diseases, optimists are not more likely than pessimists to report pain alleviation due to coping strategies, despite differences in psychological well-being between the two groups. A meta-analysis has confirmed the assumption that optimism is related to psychological well-being: \"Put simply, optimists emerge from difficult circumstances with less distress than do pessimists.\" Furthermore, the correlation appears to be attributable to coping style: \"That is, optimists seem intent on facing problems head-on, taking active and constructive steps to solve their problems; pessimists are more likely to abandon their effort to attain their goals.\"\n\nOptimists may respond better to stress: pessimists have shown higher levels of cortisol (the \"stress hormone\") and trouble regulating cortisol in response to stressors. Another study by Scheier examined the recovery process for a number of patients that had undergone surgery. The study showed that optimism was a strong predictor of the rate of recovery. Optimists achieved faster results in \"behavioral milestones\" such as sitting in bed, walking around, etc. They also were rated by staff as having a more favorable physical recovery. In a 6-month later follow-up, it was found that optimists were quicker to resume normal activities.\n\nA number of studies have been done on optimism and psychological well-being. One study conducted by Aspinwall and Taylor (1990) assessed incoming freshmen on a range of personality factors such as optimism, self-esteem, locus of self-control, etc. It was found that freshmen who scored high on optimism before entering college were reported to have lower levels of psychological distress than their more pessimistic peers, while controlling for the other personality factors. Over time, the more optimistic students were less stressed, less lonely, and less depressed than their pessimistic counterparts. Thus, this study suggests a strong link between optimism and psychological well-being.\n\nIn addition low optimism may help explain the association between caregivers' anger and reduced sense of vitality.\n\nA recent meta-analysis of optimism supported past findings that optimism is positively correlated with life satisfaction, happiness, psychological and physical well-being and negatively correlated with depression and anxiety.\n\nSeeking to explain the correlation, researchers find that optimists choose healthier lifestyles. For example, optimists smoke less, are more physically active, consume more fruit, vegetables and whole-grain bread, and are more moderate in alcohol consumption.\n\nResearch to date has demonstrated that optimists are less likely to have certain diseases or develop certain diseases over time. By comparison, research has not yet been able to demonstrate the ability to change an individual's level of optimism through psychological interventions, and thereby alter the course of disease or likelihood for development of disease. Though in that same vein, an article by Mayo Clinic argues steps to change self-talk from negative to positive may shift individuals from a negative to a more positive/optimistic outlook. Strategies claimed to be of value include surrounding oneself with positive people, identifying areas of change, practicing positive self-talk, being open to humor, and following a healthy lifestyle.\n\nDistinct from a disposition to believe that things will work out, there is a philosophical idea that, perhaps in ways that may not be fully comprehended, the present moment is in an optimum state. This view that all of nature - past, present, and future - operates by laws of optimization along the lines of Hamilton's principle in the realm of physics is countered by views such as idealism, realism, and philosophical pessimism. Philosophers often link the concept of optimism with the name of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, who held that we live in the best of all possible worlds (\"le meilleur des mondes possibles\"), or that God created a physical universe that applies the laws of physics. \n\nLeibniz proposed that it was not in God's power to create a perfect world, but among possible worlds, he created the best. In one of his writings, he responded to the Blaise Pascal's philosophy of awe and desperation in the face of the infinite by claiming that infinity should be celebrated. While Pascal advocated for making man's rational aspirations more humble, Leibniz was optimistic about the capacity of human reason to further extend itself. This idea was famously mocked by Voltaire in his satirical novel \"Candide\" as baseless optimism of the sort exemplified by the beliefs of one of its characters Dr. Pangloss, which are the opposite of his fellow traveller Martin's pessimism and emphasis on free will. \nThe optimistic position is also called Panglossianism and became an adjective for excessive, even stupendous, optimism. The phrase \"panglossian pessimism\" has been used to describe the pessimistic position that, since this is the best of all possible worlds, it is impossible for anything to get any better. Conversely, philosophical pessimism might be associated with an optimistic long-term view because it implies that no change for the worse is possible. \n\nPhilosophical optimalism, as defined by Nicholas Rescher, holds that this universe exists because it is better than the alternatives. While this philosophy does not exclude the possibility of a deity, it also doesn't require one, and is compatible with atheism.\n\nPsychological optimalism, as defined by the positive psychologist Tal Ben-Shahar, means willingness to accept failure while remaining confident that success will follow, a positive attitude he contrasts with negative perfectionism. Perfectionism can be defined as a persistent compulsive drive toward unattainable goals and valuation based solely in terms of accomplishment. Perfectionists reject the realities and constraints of human ability. They cannot accept failures, delaying any ambitious and productive behavior in fear of failure again. This neuroticism can even lead to clinical depression and low productivity. As an alternative to negative perfectionism, Ben-Shahar suggests the adoption of optimalism. Optimalism allows for failure in pursuit of a goal, and expects that while the trend of activity is towards the positive, it is not necessary to always succeed while striving towards goals. This basis in reality prevents the optimalist from being overwhelmed in the face of failure.\n\nOptimalists accept failures and also learn from them, which encourages further pursuit of achievement. Dr. Tal Ben-Shahar believes that Optimalists and Perfectionists show distinct different motives. Optimalists tend to have more intrinsic, inward desires, with a motivation to learn, while perfectionists are highly motivated by a need to consistently prove themselves worthy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59044775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59044775", "title": "Parchmentising", "text": "Parchmentising\n\nParchmentising is a textile finishing treatment for cellulose fabric, mainly cotton and flax, which stiffens the fabric and imparts a degree of translucency.\n\nThe process was described in 1850 by John Mercer, who treated cotton with solutions of 110–125°Tw sulfuric acid, at room temperature, followed by washing. Mercer observed that the treated fabric was soft like fine wool when treated at 110°Tw, shrank and stiffened at 114°Tw, or shrank, stiffened, and became semi-transparent from 116–125°Tw. \nIn general, treating indefinitely with concentrations below 110°Tw (64%) only swells and shrinks the fabric, while higher concentrations produce the stiff, translucent parchment-like effect in a few seconds, with some loss of tensile strength.\n\nTextile makers have combined sulfuric acid treatment with other processes to achieve different effects. For example, Mercerising cotton fabric before acid treatment appears to make it more susceptible to treatment at lower concentrations of sulfuric acid. At about 106 °Tw the Mercerised lustre is removed and the fabric becomes fuller, softer, and more wool-like, similar to a crêpe. The parchmentising effect is still present at higher concentrations, and may be obtained as low as 107.5 °Tw with somewhat longer treatment, perhaps a few minutes. Acid and alkaline treatments are sometimes applied several times in alternation, and patterns may be created by locally applying a resist before or between treatments.\nAt every stage the treatment is stopped by washing and neutralizing the fabric. After acid treatment and washing, a heavy calender, sometimes heated, can be applied to the wet or dried fabric to vary its translucency.\n"}
{"id": "14637260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14637260", "title": "Quintana Roo Speleological Survey", "text": "Quintana Roo Speleological Survey\n\nThe Quintana Roo Speleological Survey (QRSS) was established in 1990 for the safe exploration, survey and cartography of the underwater and dry caves and cenotes of Quintana Roo, Mexico, supported by the National Speleological Society. \n\nThe survey principally acts as a data repository for explored sites within the state of Quintana Roo and distributes summary statistical tables through its webpage, which as of February, 2011 included 208 underwater cave systems with a total surveyed length of , and 50 caves above the water table with a total length of .\n\nThe geographical area for the data archived in the QRSS is essentially the whole of the state of Quintana Roo, which extends along the Caribbean coast of the Yucatán Peninsula, from Cancun and south to the capital of Chetumal situated on the border with Belize. The explosive urban and tourism based development within the Riviera Maya and the Costa Maya is leading to increasing and widespread environmental stresses. The documentation of the flooded and dry cave networks and cenotes provided by the QRSS is of fundamental importance in regional and site specific scale planning and management of development, water resources, waste disposal facilities, hazardous material handling site selection, and so forth. Certified cave divers may obtain an information package on underwater survey and cartography opportunities in Quintana Roo.\n\n"}
{"id": "11697705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11697705", "title": "Sacred Cenote", "text": "Sacred Cenote\n\nThe Sacred Cenote (, , \"sacred well\"; alternatively known as the \"Well of Sacrifice\") refers to a noted \"cenote\" at the pre-Columbian Maya archaeological site of Chichen Itza, in the northern Yucatán Peninsula. It is located to the north of Chichen Itza's civic precinct, to which it is connected by a \"sacbe\", or raised and paved pathway.\n\nAccording to post-Conquest sources (Maya and Spanish), pre-Columbian Maya sacrificed objects and human beings into the cenote as a form of worship to the Maya rain god Chaac. Edward Herbert Thompson dredged the Cenote Sagrado from 1904 to 1910, and recovered artifacts of gold, jade, pottery, and incense, as well as human remains. A study of human remains taken from the Cenote Sagrado found that they had wounds consistent with human sacrifice.\n\nThe northwestern Yucatán Peninsula is a limestone plain, with no rivers or streams, lakes or ponds. The region is pockmarked with natural sinkholes, called cenotes, which expose the water table to the surface. One of the most impressive of these is the Sacred Cenote, which is in diameter and surrounded by sheer cliffs that drop to the water table some below.\n\nAccording to ethnohistoric sources, the Sacred Cenote was a place of pilgrimage for ancient Maya people who would conduct sacrifices into it. As Friar Diego de Landa observed in 1566 after visiting Chichen Itza:\n\nMost of the major findings in the cenote were made under the supervision of Edward Herbert Thompson, who began dredging in 1904. Much of what is known about the dredging process is derived from Thompson’s personal notes. Thompson received money from Stephen Salisbury III to help him buy the Chichén Itzá excavation site and explore the cenote. Much of Thompson’s findings and research can be found at the Peabody Museum at Harvard University.\n\nA bucket attached to a pulley system was used to dredge the cenote. Much of the beginning work consisted of clearing debris and fallen trees on the top of the water. Leon Cole, a colleague of Thompson, once recorded in his journal, “they made ten hauls in the morning and six or eight in the afternoon.” People would search through the buckets of water looking for artifacts and categorizing them accordingly. Unfortunately, there were several reports of stolen artifacts that could never be found.\n\nThompson decided to take a break from dredging after Salisbury died. A host of problems, including the Mexican Revolution, and financial issues began to hinder the work effort and damage the morale of the workers. Thompson’s house in Mexico was also burned down, and one of the chests in which he kept his notes and data was destroyed in the fire. By 1923, Thompson was officially done working on the cenote.\n\nIn 1909, Thompson decided to dive in the cenote to explore the floors, assisted by two Greek divers from the Bahamas. He reported limited visibility due to the murky water, and many shifting rocks and trees made the dive hazardous. Thompson found a layer about thick of blue pigment that had settled on the ground of the cenote. He described the bottom as, “full of long narrow cracks, radiating from centers as if the glass bottom of a dish had been broken by a pointed instrument. We found down in the cracks and holes a grayish mud in which were imbedded the heavier gold objects, jades, and copper bells in numbers.” He later proudly proclaimed, “I have at last personally trod the bottom of the Cenote.”\n\nIn 1961, William Folan, a field director for the Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e Historia (INAH), helped launch another expedition into the cenote. Some of their notable discoveries included an inscribed, gold-sheathed bone, a large chert knife with a gold-sheathed wooden handle, and wooden ear flares with jade and turquoise mosaic.\n\nIn 1967-1968, Norman Scott and Román Piña Chán led another expedition. They tried two new methods that many people had suggested for a long time: emptying the water out of the cenote and clarifying the water. Both of these methods were only partially successful. Only about of water could be removed, and the water was only clarified for a short amount of time.\n\nArchaeological investigations support this as thousands of objects have been removed from the bottom of the cenote, including artifacts made from gold, jadeite, copal, pottery, flint, obsidian, shell, wood, rubber, cloth, as well as human skeletons.\n\nMany perishable objects were preserved by the cenote. Wooden objects which normally would have rotted were preserved in the water. A great variety of wooden objects have been found including weapons, scepters, idols, tools and jewelry. Jade was the largest category of objects found, followed by textiles. The presence of jade, gold and copper in the cenote offers proof of the importance of Chichén Itzá as a cultural city center.\n\nNone of these raw materials are native to the Yucatán, which indicates that they were valuable objects brought to Chichén Itzá from other places in Central America and then sacrificed as an act of worship. Pottery, stone, bone and shells were also found in the cenote. Archaeologists have found that many objects show evidence of being intentionally damaged before being thrown into the cenote, and have speculated that this intentional damage is meant to be analogous to “killing” the object as a sacrifice.\n\nCertain cenotes contain a large number of human remains, including both males and females, and young children/infants. According to archaeologist Guillermo de Anda of the University of Yucatán, evidence from Mayan mythology suggests that many young victims (most aged 6 to 12) were male. While the classical images of a female Mayan sacrifice being flung alive to drown in a cenote are pervasive, Guillermo de Anda's writings on the subject suggest that most sacrificial victims — juveniles who were either purchased or captured while their parents were working in the fields, warriors captured in battle, or elites captured during conflicts with neighboring clans — were usually (though not always) killed prior to being thrown into the cenote, and in many cases, dozens of miles from the cenotes in which their bodies were eventually deposited. He also notes that only a certain set of cenotes was used in this way, while others were reserved for domestic purposes (de Anda 2007). This suggests that Mayan religious officiants believed that only certain cenotes led to the underworld, and sacrifices placed in others would serve no purpose. It also suggests that the status of the victim as alive or dead was unimportant. The occasional appearance of human remains in non-sacrificial cenotes can be attributed to rare errors in judgement on the part of the shaman. The actual pattern by which a particular victim's remains became interred in which cenotes remains a subject of conjecture.\n\nThe Franciscan leader Diego de Landa reported that he witnessed live sacrifices being thrown into the cenote at Chichén Itzá. However, his account does not indicate the regularity of this behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28172", "title": "Saint Boniface", "text": "Saint Boniface\n\nSaint Boniface (; 675 – 5 June 754 AD), born Winfrid (also spelled Winifred, Wynfrith, Winfrith or Wynfryth) in the kingdom of Wessex in Anglo-Saxon England, was a leading figure in the Anglo-Saxon mission to the Germanic parts of the Frankish Empire during the 8th century. He organized Christianity in many parts of Germania and was made archbishop of Mainz by Pope Gregory III. He was martyred in Frisia in 754, along with 52 others, and his remains were returned to Fulda, where they rest in a sarcophagus which became a site of pilgrimage. Boniface's life and death as well as his work became widely known, there being a wealth of material available—a number of \"vitae\", especially the near-contemporary \"Vita Bonifatii auctore Willibaldi\", legal documents, possibly some sermons, and above all his correspondence. He became the patron saint of Germania, known as the \"Apostle of the Germans\".\n\nNorman F. Cantor notes the three roles Boniface played that made him \"one of the truly outstanding creators of the first Europe, as the apostle of Germania, the reformer of the Frankish church, and the chief fomentor of the alliance between the papacy and the Carolingian family.\" Through his efforts to reorganize and regulate the church of the Franks, he helped shape Western Christianity, and many of the dioceses he proposed remain today. After his martyrdom, he was quickly hailed as a saint in Fulda and other areas in Germania and in England. He is still venerated strongly today by German Catholics. Boniface is celebrated (and criticized) as a missionary; he is regarded as a unifier of Europe, and he is seen (mainly by Catholics) as a Germanic national figure.\n\nThe earliest Bonifacian \"vita\", Willibald's, does not mention his place of birth but says that at an early age he attended a monastery ruled by Abbot Wulfhard in \"escancastre\", or \"Examchester\", which seems to denote Exeter, and may have been one of many \"monasteriola\" built by local landowners and churchmen; nothing else is known of it outside the Bonifacian \"vitae\". This monastery is believed to have occupied the site of the Church of St Mary Major in the City of Exeter, demolished in 1971, next to which was later built Exeter Cathedral. Later tradition places his birth at Crediton, but the earliest mention of Crediton in connection to Boniface is from the early fourteenth century, in John Grandisson's \"Legenda Sanctorum: The Proper Lessons for Saints' Days according to the use of Exeter\". In one of his letters Boniface mentions he was \"born and reared...[in] the synod of London\", but he may have been speaking metaphorically.\n\nAccording to the \"vitae\", Winfrid was of a respected and prosperous family. Against his father's wishes he devoted himself at an early age to the monastic life. He received further theological training in the Benedictine monastery and minster of Nhutscelle (Nursling), not far from Winchester, which under the direction of abbot Winbert had grown into an industrious centre of learning in the tradition of Aldhelm. Winfrid taught in the abbey school and at the age of 30 became a priest; in this time, he wrote a Latin grammar, the \"Ars Grammatica\", besides a treatise on verse and some Aldhelm-inspired riddles. While little is known about Nursling outside of Boniface's \"vitae\", it seems clear that the library there was significant. In order to supply Boniface with the materials he needed, it would have contained works by Donatus, Priscian, Isidore, and many others. Around 716, when his abbot Wynberth of Nursling died, he was invited (or expected) to assume his position—it is possible that they were related, and the practice of hereditary right among the early Anglo-Saxons would affirm this. Winfrid, however, declined the position and in 716 set out on a missionary expedition to Frisia.\n\nBoniface first left for the continent in 716. He traveled to Utrecht, where Willibrord, the \"Apostle of the Frisians,\" had been working since the 690s. He spent a year with Willibrord, preaching in the countryside, but their efforts were frustrated by the war then being carried on between Charles Martel and Radbod, King of the Frisians. Willibrord fled to the abbey he had founded in Echternach (in modern-day Luxembourg) while Boniface returned to Nursling.\n\nBoniface returned to the continent the next year and went straight to Rome, where Pope Gregory II renamed him \"Boniface\", after the (legendary) fourth-century martyr Boniface of Tarsus, and appointed him missionary bishop for Germania—he became a bishop without a diocese for an area that lacked any church organization. He would never return to England, though he remained in correspondence with his countrymen and kinfolk throughout his life.\n\nAccording to the \"vitae\" Boniface felled the Donar Oak, Latinized by Willibald as \"Jupiter's oak,\" near the present-day town of Fritzlar in northern Hesse. According to his early biographer Willibald, Boniface started to chop the oak down, when suddenly a great wind, as if by miracle, blew the ancient oak over. When the god did not strike him down, the people were amazed and converted to Christianity. He built a chapel dedicated to Saint Peter from its wood at the site—the chapel was the beginning of the monastery in Fritzlar. This account from the \"vita\" is stylized to portray Boniface as a singular character who alone acts to root out paganism. Lutz von Padberg and others point out that what the \"vitae\" leave out is that the action was most likely well-prepared and widely publicized in advance for maximum effect, and that Boniface had little reason to fear for his personal safety since the Frankish fortified settlement of Büraburg was nearby. According to Willibald, Boniface later had a church with an attached monastery built in Fritzlar, on the site of the previously built chapel, according to tradition.\n\nThe support of the Frankish mayors of the palace (maior domos), and later the early Pippinid and Carolingian rulers, was essential for Boniface's work. Boniface had been under the protection of Charles Martel from 723 on. The Christian Frankish leaders desired to defeat their rival power, the non-Christian Saxons, and to incorporate the Saxon lands into their own growing empire. Boniface's campaign of destruction of indigenous Germanic pagan sites may have benefited the Franks in their campaign against the Saxons.\n\nIn 732, Boniface traveled again to Rome to report, and Pope Gregory III conferred upon him the pallium as archbishop with jurisdiction over Germany. Boniface again set out for what is now Germany, continued his mission, and used his authority to resolve the problems of many other Christians who had fallen out of contact with the regular hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church. During his third visit to Rome in 737–38, he was made papal legate for Germany.\n\nAfter Boniface's third trip to Rome, Charles Martel erected four dioceses in Bavaria (Salzburg, Regensburg, Freising, and Passau) and gave them to Boniface as archbishop and metropolitan over all Germany east of the Rhine. In 745, he was granted Mainz as metropolitan see. In 742, one of his disciples, Sturm (also known as Sturmi, or Sturmius), founded the abbey of Fulda not far from Boniface's earlier missionary outpost at Fritzlar. Although Sturm was the founding abbot of Fulda, Boniface was very involved in the foundation. The initial grant for the abbey was signed by Carloman, the son of Charles Martel, and a supporter of Boniface's reform efforts in the Frankish church. The saint himself explained to his old friend, Daniel of Winchester, that without the protection of Charles Martel he could \"neither administer his church, defend his clergy, nor prevent idolatry.\"\n\nAccording to German historian Gunther Wolf, the high point of Boniface's career was the Concilium Germanicum, organized by Carloman in an unknown location in April 743. Although Boniface was not able to safeguard the church from property seizures by the local nobility, he did achieve one goal, the adoption of stricter guidelines for the Frankish clergy, which often hailed directly from the nobility. After Carloman's resignation in 747 he maintained a sometimes turbulent relationship with the king of the Franks, Pepin; the claim that he would have crowned Pepin at Soissons in 751 is now generally discredited.\n\nBoniface balanced this support and attempted to maintain some independence, however, by attaining the support of the papacy and of the Agilolfing rulers of Bavaria. In Frankish, Hessian, and Thuringian territory, he established the dioceses of Würzburg, and Erfurt. By appointing his own followers as bishops, he was able to retain some independence from the Carolingians, who most likely were content to give him leeway as long as Christianity was imposed on the Saxons and other Germanic tribes.\n\nAccording to the \"vitae\", Boniface had never relinquished his hope of converting the Frisians, and in 754 he set out with a retinue for Frisia. He baptized a great number and summoned a general meeting for confirmation at a place not far from Dokkum, between Franeker and Groningen. Instead of his converts, however, a group of armed robbers appeared who slew the aged archbishop. The \"vitae\" mention that Boniface persuaded his (armed) comrades to lay down their arms: \"Cease fighting. Lay down your arms, for we are told in Scripture not to render evil for good but to overcome evil by good.\"\n\nHaving killed Boniface and his company, the Frisian bandits ransacked their possessions but found that the company's luggage did not contain the riches they had hoped for: \"they broke open the chests containing the books and found, to their dismay, that they held manuscripts instead of gold vessels, pages of sacred texts instead of silver plates.\" They attempted to destroy these books, the earliest \"vita\" already says, and this account underlies the status of the Ragyndrudis Codex, now held as a Bonifacian relic in Fulda, and supposedly one of three books found on the field by the Christians who inspected it afterward. Of those three books, the Ragyndrudis Codex shows incisions that could have been made by sword or axe; its story appears confirmed in the Utrecht hagiography, the \"Vita altera\", which reports that an eye-witness saw that the saint at the moment of death held up a gospel as spiritual protection. The story was later repeated by Otloh's \"vita\"; at that time, the Ragyndrudis Codex seems to have been firmly connected to the martyrdom.\n\nBoniface's remains were moved from the Frisian countryside to Utrecht, and then to Mainz, where sources contradict each other regarding the behavior of Lullus, Boniface's successor as archbishop of Mainz. According to Willibald's \"vita\" Lullus allowed the body to be moved to Fulda, while the (later) \"Vita Sturmi\", a hagiography of Sturm by Eigil of Fulda, Lullus attempted to block the move and keep the body in Mainz.\n\nHis remains were eventually buried in the abbey church of Fulda after resting for some time in Utrecht, and they are entombed within a shrine beneath the high altar of Fulda Cathedral, previously the abbey church.\n\nVeneration of Boniface in Fulda began immediately after his death; his grave was equipped with a decorative tomb around ten years after his burial, and the grave and relics became the center of the abbey. Fulda monks prayed for newly elected abbots at the grave site before greeting them, and every Monday the saint was remembered in prayer, the monks prostrating themselves and reciting Psalm 50. After the abbey church was rebuilt to become the Ratgar Basilica (dedicated 791), Boniface's remains were translated to a new grave: since the church had been enlarged, his grave, originally in the west, was now in the middle; his relics were moved to a new apse in 819. From then on Boniface, as patron of the abbey, was regarded as both spiritual intercessor for the monks and legal owner of the abbey and its possessions, and all donations to the abbey were done in his name. He was honored on the date of his martyrdom, 5 June (with a mass written by Alcuin), and (around the year 1000) with a mass dedicated to his appointment as bishop, on 1 December.\n\nWillibald's \"vita\" describes how a visitor on horseback come to the site of the martyrdom, and a hoof of his horse got stuck in the mire. When it was pulled loose, a well sprang up. By the time of the \"Vita altera Bonifatii\" (9th century), there was a church on the site, and the well had become a \"fountain of sweet water\" used to sanctify people. The \"Vita Liudgeri\", a hagiographical account of the work of Ludger, describes how Ludger himself had built the church, sharing duties with two other priests. According to James Palmer, the well was of great importance since the saint's body was hundreds of miles away; the physicality of the well allowed for an ongoing connection with the saint. In addition, Boniface signified Dokkum's and Frisia's \"connect[ion] to the rest of (Frankish) Christendom\".\n\nSaint Boniface's feast day is celebrated on 5 June in the Roman Catholic Church, the Lutheran Church, the Anglican Communion and the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nA famous statue of Saint Boniface stands on the grounds of Mainz Cathedral, seat of the archbishop of Mainz. A more modern rendition stands facing St. Peter's Church of Fritzlar.\n\nThe UK National Shrine is located at the Catholic church at Crediton, Devon, which has a bas-relief of the felling of Thor's Oak, by sculptor Kenneth Carter. The sculpture was unveiled by Princess Margaret in his native Crediton, located in Newcombes Meadow Park. There is also a series of paintings there by Timothy Moore. There are quite a few churches dedicated to St. Boniface in the United Kingdom: Bunbury, Cheshire; Chandler's Ford and Southampton Hampshire; Adler Street, London; Papa Westray, Orkney; St Budeaux, Plymouth (now demolished); Bonchurch, Isle of Wight; Cullompton, Devon.\n\nBishop George Errington founded St Boniface's Catholic College, Plymouth in 1856. The school celebrates Saint Boniface on 5 June each year.\n\nIn 1818, Father Norbert Provencher founded a mission on the east bank of the Red River in what was then Rupert's Land, building a log church and naming it after St. Boniface. The log church was consecrated as Saint Boniface Cathedral after Provencher was himself consecrated as a bishop and the diocese was formed. The community that grew around the cathedral eventually became the city of Saint Boniface, which merged into the city of Winnipeg in 1971. In 1844, four Grey Nuns arrived by canoe in Manitoba, and in 1871, built Western Canada's first hospital: St. Boniface Hospital, where the Assiniboine and Red Rivers meet. Today, St. Boniface Hospital is the second-largest hospital in Manitoba.\n\nSome traditions credit Saint Boniface with the invention of the Christmas tree. The \"vitae\" mention nothing of the sort. However, it is mentioned on a BBC-Devon website, in an account which places Geismar in Bavaria, and in a number of educational books, including \"St. Boniface and the Little Fir Tree\", \"The Brightest Star of All: Christmas Stories for the Family\", \"The American normal readers\". and a short story by Henry van Dyke, \"The First Christmas Tree\".\n\nThe earliest \"Life\" of Boniface was written by a certain Willibald, an Anglo-Saxon priest who came to Mainz after Boniface's death, around 765. Willibald's biography was widely dispersed; Levison lists some forty manuscripts. According to his lemma, a group of four manuscripts including Codex Monacensis 1086 are copies directly from the original.\n\nListed second in Levison's edition is the entry from a late ninth-century Fulda document: Boniface's status as a martyr is attested by his inclusion in the \"Fulda Martyrology\" which also lists, for instance, the date (1 November) of his translation in 819, when the Fulda Cathedral had been rebuilt. A \"Vita Bonifacii\" was written in Fulda in the ninth century, possibly by Candidus of Fulda, but is now lost.\n\nThe next \"vita\", chronologically, is the \"Vita altera Bonifatii auctore Radbodo\", which originates in the Bishopric of Utrecht, and was probably revised by Radboud of Utrecht (899–917). Mainly agreeing with Willibald, it adds an eye-witness who presumably saw the martyrdom at Dokkum. The \"Vita tertia Bonifatii\" likewise originates in Utrecht. It is dated between 917 (Radboud's death) and 1075, the year Adam of Bremen wrote his \"Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum\", which used the \"Vita tertia\".\n\nA later \"vita\", written by Otloh of St. Emmeram (1062–1066), is based on Willibald's and a number of other \"vitae\" as well as the correspondence, and also includes information from local traditions.\n\nBoniface engaged in regular correspondence with fellow churchmen all over Western Europe, including the three popes he worked with, and with some of his kinsmen back in England. Many of these letters contain questions about church reform and liturgical or doctrinal matters. In most cases, what remains is one half of the conversation, either the question or the answer. The correspondence as a whole gives evidence of Boniface's widespread connections; some of the letters also prove an intimate relationship especially with female correspondents.\n\nThere are 150 letters in what is generally called the Bonifatian correspondence, though not all them are by Boniface or addressed to him. They were assembled by order of archbishop Lullus, Boniface's successor in Mainz, and were initially organized into two parts, a section containing the papal correspondence and another with his private letters. They were reorganized in the eighth century, in a roughly chronological ordering. Otloh of St. Emmeram, who worked on a new \"vita\" of Boniface in the eleventh century, is credited with compiling the complete correspondence as we have it.\n\nThe correspondence was edited and published already in the seventeenth century, by Nicolaus Serarius. Stephan Alexander Würdtwein's 1789 edition, \"Epistolae S. Bonifacii Archiepiscopi Magontini\", was the basis for a number of (partial) translations in the nineteenth century. The first version to be published by Monumenta Germaniae Historica (MGH) was the edition by Ernst Dümmler (1892); the most authoritative version until today is Michael Tangl's 1912 \"Die Briefe des Heiligen Bonifatius, Nach der Ausgabe in den Monumenta Germaniae Historica\", published by MGH in 1916. This edition is the basis of Ephraim Emerton's selection and translation in English, \"The Letters of Saint Boniface\", first published in New York in 1940; it was republished most recently with a new introduction by Thomas F.X. Noble in 2000.\n\nSome fifteen preserved sermons are traditionally associated with Boniface, but that they were actually his is not generally accepted.\n\nEarly in his career, before he left for the continent, Boniface wrote the \"Ars Bonifacii\", a grammatical treatise presumably for his students in Nursling. Helmut Gneuss reports that one manuscript copy of the treatise originates from (the south of) England, mid-eighth century; it is now held in Marburg, in the Hessisches Staatsarchiv. He also wrote a treatise on verse, the \"Caesurae uersuum\", and a collection of riddles, the \"Enigmata\", influenced greatly by Aldhelm and containing many references to works of Vergil (the \"Aeneid\", the \"Georgics\", and the \"Eclogues\"). Three octosyllabic poems written in clearly Aldhelmian fashion (according to Andy Orchard) are preserved in his correspondence, all composed before he left for the continent.\n\nA letter by Boniface charging Aldebert and Clement with heresy is preserved in the records of the Roman Council of 745 that condemned the two. Boniface had an interest in the Irish canon law collection known as \"Collectio canonum Hibernensis\", and a late 8th/early 9th-century manuscript in Würzburg contains, besides a selection from the \"Hibernensis\", a list of rubrics that mention the heresies of Clemens and Aldebert. The relevant folios containing these rubrics were most likely copied in Mainz, Würzburg, or Fulda, all places associated with Boniface. Michael Glatthaar suggested that the rubrics should be seen as Boniface's contribution to the agenda for a synod.\n\nBoniface's death (and birth) has given rise to a number of noteworthy celebrations. The dates for some of these celebrations have undergone some changes: in 1805, 1855, and 1905 (and in England in 1955) anniversaries were calculated with Boniface's death dated in 755, the \"Mainz tradition\"; in Mainz, Michael Tangl's dating of the martyrdom in 754 was not accepted until after 1955. Celebrations in Germany centered on Fulda and Mainz, in the Netherlands on Dokkum and Utrecht, and in England on Crediton and Exeter.\n\nThe first German celebration on a fairly large scale was held in 1805 (the 1050th anniversary of his death), followed by a similar celebration in a number of towns in 1855; both of these were predominantly Catholic affairs, which emphasized the role of Boniface in German history. But if the celebrations were mostly Catholic, in the first part of the 19th century the respect for Boniface in general was an ecumenical affair, with both Protestants and Catholics praising Boniface as a founder of the German nation, in response to the German nationalism that arose after the Napoleonic era came to an end. The second part of the 19th century saw increased tension between Catholics and Protestants; for the latter, Martin Luther had become the model German, the founder of the modern nation, and he and Boniface were in direct competition for the honor. In 1905, when strife between Catholic and Protestant factions had eased (one Protestant church published a celebratory pamphlet, Gerhard Ficker's \"Bonifatius, der \"Apostel der Deutschen\"\"), there were modest celebrations and a publication for the occasion on historical aspects of Boniface and his work, the 1905 \"Festgabe\" by Gregor Richter and Carl Scherer. In all, the content of these early celebrations showed evidence of the continuing question about the meaning of Boniface for Germany, though the importance of Boniface in cities associated with him was without question.\n\nIn 1954, celebrations were widespread, in England, Germany, and the Netherlands, and a number of these celebrations were international affairs. Especially in Germany, these celebrations had a distinctly political note to them and often stressed Boniface as a kind of founder of Europe, such as when Konrad Adenauer, the (Catholic) German chancellor, addressed a crowd of 60,000 in Fulda, celebrating the feast day of the saint in a European context: \"Das, was wir in Europa gemeinsam haben, [ist] gemeinsamen Ursprungs\" (\"What we have in common in Europe comes from the same source\").\n\nWhen Pope John Paul II visited Germany in November 1980, he spent two days in Fulda (17 and 18 November). He celebrated mass in Fulda Cathedral with 30,000 gathered on the square in front of the building, and met with the German Bishops' Conference (held in Fulda since 1867). The pope next celebrated mass outside the cathedral, in front of an estimated crowd of 100,000, and hailed the importance of Boniface for German Christianity: \"Der heilige Bonifatius, Bischof und Märtyrer, \"bedeutet\" den 'Anfang' des Evangeliums und der Kirche in Eurem Land\" (\"The holy Boniface, bishop and martyr, \"signifies\" the beginning of the gospel and the church in your country\"). A photograph of the pope praying at Boniface's grave became the centerpiece of a prayer card distributed from the cathedral.\n\nIn 2004, anniversary celebrations were held throughout Northwestern Germany and Utrecht, and Fulda and Mainz—generating a great amount of academic and popular interest. The event occasioned a number of scholarly studies, esp. biographies (for instance, by Auke Jelsma in Dutch, Lutz von Padberg in German, and Klaas Bruinsma in Frisian), and a fictional completion of the Boniface correspondence (Lutterbach, \"Mit Axt und Evangelium\"). A German musical proved a great commercial success, and in the Netherlands an opera was staged.\n\nThe literature on the saint and his work is extensive. At the time of the various anniversaries, edited collections were published containing essays by some of the best-known scholars of the time, such as the 1954 collection \"Sankt Bonifatius: Gedenkgabe zum Zwölfhundertsten Todestag\" and the 2004 collection \"Bonifatius—Vom Angelsächsischen Missionar zum Apostel der Deutschen\". In the modern era, published a number of biographies and articles on the saint focusing on his missionary praxis and his relics. The most authoritative biography is still Theodor Schieffer's \"Winfrid-Bonifatius und die Christliche Grundlegung Europas\" (1954).\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3410731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3410731", "title": "Sharps waste", "text": "Sharps waste\n\nSharps waste is a form of biomedical waste composed of used \"sharps\", which includes any device or object used to puncture or lacerate the skin. Sharps waste is classified as biohazardous waste and must be carefully handled. Common medical materials treated as sharps waste are:\n\n\nIn addition to needles and blades, anything attached to them will also be considered sharps waste, such syringes and injection devices.\n\nBlades can include razors, scalpels, X-Acto knife, scissors, or any other medical items used for cutting in the medical setting, regardless of if they have been contaminated with biohazardous material. While glass and sharp plastic are considered sharps waste, their handling methods can vary.\n\nGlass items which have been contaminated with a biohazardous material will be treated with the same concern as needles and blades, even if unbroken. If glass is contaminated, it is still often treated as a sharp, because it can break during the disposal process. Contaminated plastic items which are not sharp can be disposed of in a biohazardous waste receptacle instead of a sharps container.\n\nAs a biohazardous material, injuries from sharps waste can pose a large public health concern. By penetrating the skin, it is possible for this waste to spread blood-borne pathogens. The spread of these pathogens is directly responsible for the transmission of blood-borne diseases, such as hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV), and HIV. Health care professionals expose themselves to the risk of transmission of these diseases when handling sharps waste. The large volume handled by health care professionals on a daily basis increases the chance that an injury may occur.\n\nThe general public can occasionally be at risk to injuries from sharps waste as well when improperly disposed of by injection drug users.\n\nA sharps container is a hard plastic container that is used to safely dispose of hypodermic needles and other sharp medical instruments, such as an IV catheters and disposable scalpels. Sharps containers may be single use which are disposed of with the waste inside, or reusable which are robotically emptied and sterilized before being returned for re-use.\n\nNeedles are dropped into the container through an opening in the top. Needles should never be pushed or forced into the container, as damage to the container and/or needlestick injuries may result. Sharps containers should not be filled above the indicated line, usually two-thirds full.\n\nIn North America, sharps containers are often red, and elsewhere are often yellow.\n\nAirports and large institutions commonly have sharps containers available in restrooms for safe disposal for users of injection drugs, such as insulin-dependent diabetics. People injecting drugs in their homes may substitute other hard-sided containers such as empty milk jugs for disposal of needles.\n\nExtreme care must be taken in the management and disposal of sharps waste. The goal in sharps waste management is to safely handle all materials until they can be properly disposed. The final step in the disposal of sharps waste is to dispose of them in an autoclave. A less common approach is to incinerate them; typically only chemotherapy sharps waste is incinerated. Steps must be taken along the way to minimize the risk of injury from this material, while maximizing the amount of sharps material disposed.\nHealth care workers are to minimize their interaction with sharps waste by disposing of it in a sealable container. Attempts by health care workers to disassemble sharps waste is kept to a minimum. Strict hospital protocols and government regulations ensure that hospital workers handle sharps waste safely and dispose of it effectively.\n\nSelf-locking and sealable sharps containers are made of plastic so that the sharps can not easily penetrate through the sides. Such units are designed so that the whole container can be disposed of with other biohazardous waste. Single use sharps containers of various sizes are sold throughout the world. Large medical facilities may have their own 'mini' autoclave in which these sharps containers are disposed of with other medical wastes. This minimizes the distance the containers have to travel and the number of people to come in contact with the sharps waste. Smaller clinics or offices without such facilities are required by federal regulations to hire the services of a company that specializes in transporting and properly disposing of the hazardous wastes.\n\nNIOSH found through results from focus groups that accommodation, functionality, accessibility, and visibility are four areas of high importance to be able to ensure safe discarding of sharps. The studies found it was important to have containers that are easy to use with little need for training to be able to use. The containers should be visible in any areas that sharps are used and be placed in such degree that spillage and injury will not be likely to occur with use.\n\nRecent legislation in France has stated that pharmaceutical companies supplying self injection medications are responsible for the disposal of spent needles. Previously popular needle clippers and caps are no longer acceptable as safety devices and either sharps box or needle destruction devices are required.\n\nDisposal methods vary by country and locale, but common methods of disposal are either by truck service or, in the United States, by disposal of sharps through the mail. Truck service involves trained personnel collecting sharps waste, and often medical waste, at the point of generation and hauling it away by truck to a destruction facility. Similarly, the mail-back sharps disposal method allows generators to ship sharps waste to the disposal facility directly through the U.S. mail in specially designed and approved shipping containers. Mail-back sharps disposal allows waste generators to dispose of smaller amounts of sharps more economically than if they were to hire out a truck service.\n\nWith more than sixteen billion injections administered annually worldwide, they are the largest contributor to sharps waste. For this reason many new technologies surrounding injections have been developed, mostly related to safety mechanisms. As these technologies have been developed governments have attempted to make them commonplace to ensure sharps waste safety. In 2000, the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act was passed, along with the 2001 Bloodborne Pathogens Standard.\n\nSafety syringes help reduce occurrences of accidental needlesticks. One of the most recent developments has been the auto-disable injection device. These injection devices automatically disable after a single use. This can be done by retracting the needle back into the syringe or rendering the syringe plunger inoperable. With the injection device now inoperable, it cannot be reused. Shielding the needle after the injection is another approach for safe management of sharps. These are hands free methods usually involving a hinging cap that can be pressed on a table to seal the needle. Another technology in sharps waste management relating to injections is the needle remover. Varying approaches can be taken with the main goal to separate the needle from the syringe. This allows the sharp needle to be quarantined and disposed of separate from the syringe. There is debate around the use of these devices as they involved in additional step in the handling of sharps waste.\n\nSharps waste is of great concern in developing and transitional regions of the world. Factors such as high disease prevalence and lack of health care professionals amplify the dangers involved with sharps waste, and the cost of newer disposal technology makes them unlikely to be used. \nAs with the rest of the world injection wastes make up the largest portion of sharps waste. However, injection use is much more prevalent in this world segment. One of the contributors to this increase is a larger emphasis placed on injections for therapeutic purposes. It has been estimated that 95% of all injections in developing regions are for therapeutic purposes. The average person has been estimated to receive up to 8.5 injections per year. Newly developed injection technologies are rarely used to provide these injections due to added costs. Therefore, the majority of injections are given with standard disposable syringes in developing regions.\n\nThe infrastructure of developing regions is not equipped to deal with this large volume of contaminated sharps waste. Contrary to the industrialized world, disposal incinerators and transportation networks are not always available. Cost restraints make the purchase of single use disposable containers unrealistic. Facilities are often overwhelmed with patients and understaffed with educated workers. Demand on these facilities can limit the emphasis or enforcement of waste disposal protocols. These factors leave a dangerous quantity of sharps waste in the environment. Contrasts between the industrialized and developing world segment can be seen in accidental needle stick injuries. These occur at a rate of .18 to .74 per person per year in industrialized nations and .93 to 4.68 per person per year in developing and transitional nations (Hutin, Hauri, Armstrong, 2003).\n\nImproper sharps management is a major factor involved in what is categorized as unsafe injections. Annually these account for 21 million, 2 million, and 260,000 of new HBV, HCV, and HIV infections annually. 40-65% of new HBV and HCV are due to percutaneous occupational exposure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53163128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53163128", "title": "Space-based measurements of carbon dioxide", "text": "Space-based measurements of carbon dioxide\n\nSpace-based measurements of carbon dioxide () are used to help answer questions about Earth's carbon cycle. There are a variety of active and planned instruments for measuring carbon dioxide in Earth's atmosphere from space. The first satellite mission designed to measure was the Interferometric Monitor for Greenhouse Gases (IMG) on board the ADEOS I satellite in 1996. This mission lasted less than a year. Since then, additional space-based measurements have begun, including those from two high-precision (better than 0.3% or 1 ppm) satellites (GOSAT and OCO-2). Different instrument designs may reflect different primary missions.\n\nThere are outstanding questions in carbon cycle science that satellite observations can help answer. The Earth system absorbs about half of all anthropogenic emissions. However, it is unclear exactly how this uptake is partitioned to different regions across the globe. It is also uncertain how different regions will behave in terms of flux under a different climate. For example, a forest may increase uptake due to the fertilization or β-effect, or it could release due to increased metabolism by microbes at higher temperatures. These questions are difficult to answer with historically spatially and temporally limited data sets.\n\nEven though satellite observations of are somewhat recent, they have been used for a number of different purposes, some of which are highlighted here.\n\nRemote sensing of trace gases has several challenges. Most techniques rely on observing infrared light reflected off Earth's surface. Because these instruments use spectroscopy, at each sounding footprint a spectrum is recorded—this means there is a significantly (about 1000×) more data to transfer than what would be required of just an RGB pixel. Changes in surface albedo and viewing angles may affect measurements, and satellites may employ different viewing modes over different locations; these may be accounted for in the algorithms used to convert raw into final measurements. As with other space-based instruments, space debris must be avoided to prevent damage.\n\nWater vapor can dilute other gases in air and thus change the amount of in a column above the surface of the Earth, so often column-average dry-air mole fractions (X) are reported instead. To calculate this, instruments may also measure O, which is diluted similarly to other gases, or the algorithms may account for water and surface pressure from other measurements. Clouds may interfere with accurate measurements so platforms may include instruments to measure clouds. Because of measurement imperfections and errors in fitting signals to obtain X, space-based observations may also be compared with ground-based observations such as those from the TCCON.\n\nThere have been other conceptual missions which have undergone initial evaluations but have not been chosen to become a part of space-based observing systems. These include:\n"}
{"id": "2187433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2187433", "title": "St. Thomas Mount", "text": "St. Thomas Mount\n\nSt. Thomas Mount (known in Modern Tamil as Parangimalai) is a small hillock in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India, near the neighbourhood of Guindy and very close to Chennai International Airport.\n\nThe ancient Syrian Christian community of India trace the origin of their church to St. Thomas the Apostle,From the 17th century, this part of Chennai was populated predominantly by Anglo-Indians The St. Thomas Garrison Church is at the foot of St Thomas Mount. St. Thomas Syro Malabar Catholic Church is located east of the shrine at North Silver Street, foot holds of the mountain shrine.\n\nThe neighbourhood is served by the St. Thomas Mount railway station, on the southern line of the Chennai Suburban Railway Network. Integration of the Metro and MRTS with the suburban station in the neighbourhood, is expected to make the suburb the city's largest transit hub after Chennai Central.\n\nIn the state assembly elections of 1967 and 1971, there was a constituency known as the Saint Thomas Mount.\n\nThe St. Thomas Mount block is a revenue block in the Chennai district of Tamil Nadu, India.\nThe following cities come under St Thomas Mount Panchayat Union:\n\n\nA shrine dedicated to \"Our Lady of Expectation\" (Mother Mary) was built in 1523 on top of the mount. The altar of this shrine was built on the spot where St. Thomas' death traditionally believed to have been occurred. At the northern foot of the mount, is a gateway of four impressive arches surmounted by a cross bearing the inscribed date 1547. A flight of 160 steps leads up to the summit of the mount. There are 14 stations of the cross erected on the way to the summit.\n\n"}
{"id": "2635354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2635354", "title": "Thomas Belt", "text": "Thomas Belt\n\nThomas Belt (1832 – 21 September 1878), an English geologist and naturalist, was born at Newcastle-on-Tyne in 1832, and educated in that city. He is remembered for his work on the geology of gold bearing minerals, glacial geology, and for his description of the mutualistic relationship between certain bullthorn \"Acacia\" species and their \"Pseudomyrmex\" ants.\n\nAs a youth Belt became actively interested in natural history through the Tyneside Naturalists Field Club. In 1852 he went to Australia and for about eight years worked at the gold-diggings, where he acquired a practical knowledge of ore deposits. In 1860 he proceeded to Nova Scotia to take charge of some gold-mines, and there met with a serious injury, which led to his return to England.\n\nIn 1861 Belt issued a separate work entitled \"Mineral Veins: an Enquiry into their Origin, founded on a Study of the Auriferous Quartz Veins of Australia\". Later on he was engaged for about three years at Dolgelly, another though small gold-mining region, and here he carefully investigated the rocks and fossils of the Lingula Flags, his observations being published in an important and now classic memoir in the \"Geological Magazine\" for 1867.\n\nIn the following year he was appointed to take charge of some mines in Nicaragua, where he passed four active and adventurous years the results being given in his \"The Naturalist in Nicaragua\"] (1874), a widely regarded work. In this volume the author expressed his views on the former presence of glaciers in that country.\n\nIn this book, he also first described the mutualistic relationship of certain Acacias and the ant we now know as \"Pseudomyrmex spinicola\". These are a species of red myrmecophyte-inhabiting neotropical ants which are found only in Nicaragua and Costa Rica. They live in the thorns of a tropical tree, \"Acacia collinsii\", feeding on nectaries along with the protein and lipid-rich pods produced by the plant for the ants and now known as Belsian bodies (or Beltian bodies) in honor of Belt.\n\nIn subsequent papers Belt dealt boldly with the phenomena of the glacial period in Britain and in various parts of the world.\n\nAfter many further expeditions to Russia, Siberia and Colorado, he was traveling to Colorado for a professional engagement when he fell suddenly ill and died in Denver, on 21 September 1878, at the age of 45. He was buried there in the Riverside Cemetery in Denver.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30494", "title": "Turbomolecular pump", "text": "Turbomolecular pump\n\nA turbomolecular pump is a type of vacuum pump, superficially similar to a turbopump, used to obtain and maintain high vacuum. These pumps work on the principle that gas molecules can be given momentum in a desired direction by repeated collision with a moving solid surface. In a turbomolecular pump, a rapidly spinning fan rotor 'hits' gas molecules from the inlet of the pump towards the exhaust in order to create or maintain a vacuum.\n\nMost turbomolecular pumps employ multiple stages, each consisting of a quickly rotating rotor blade and stationary stator blade pair. The system works like a compressor that puts energy into the gas, rather than taking it out. Gas captured by the upper stages is pushed into the lower stages and successively compressed to the level of the fore-vacuum (backing pump) pressure.\nAs the gas molecules enter through the inlet, the rotor, which has a number of angled blades, hits the molecules. Thus the mechanical energy of the blades is transferred to the gas molecules. With this newly acquired momentum, the gas molecules enter into the gas transfer holes in the stator. This leads them to the next stage where they again collide with the rotor surface, and this process is continued, finally leading them outwards through the exhaust.\n\nBecause of the relative motion of rotor and stator, molecules preferentially hit the lower side of the blades. Because the blade surface looks down, most of the scattered molecules will leave it downwards. The surface is rough, so no reflection will occur. A blade needs to be thick and stable for high pressure operation and as thin as possible and slightly bent for maximum compression. For high compression ratios the throat between adjacent rotor blades (as shown in the image) is pointing as much as possible in the forward direction. For high flow rates the blades are at 45° and reach close to the axis.\n\nBecause the compression of each stage is ~10, each stage closer to the outlet is considerably smaller than the preceding inlet stages. This has two consequences. The geometric progression tells us that infinite stages could ideally fit into a finite axial length. The finite length in this case is the full height of the housing as the bearings, the motor, and controller and some of the coolers can be installed inside on the axis. Radially, to grasp as much of the thin gas at the entrance, the inlet-side rotors would ideally have a larger radius, and correspondingly higher centrifugal force; ideal blades would get exponentially thinner towards their tips and carbon fibers should reinforce the aluminium blades. However, because the average speed of a blade affects pumping so much this is done by increasing the root diameter rather than the tip diameter where practical.\n\nThe performance of a turbomolecular pump is strongly related to the frequency of the rotor. As rpm increases, the rotor blades deflect more. To increase speed and reduce the deformation, stiffer materials and different blade designs have been suggested.\n\nTurbomolecular pumps must operate at very high speeds, and the friction heat buildup imposes design limitations. Some turbomolecular pumps use magnetic bearings to reduce friction and oil contamination. Because the magnetic bearings and the temperature cycles allow for only a limited clearance between rotor and stator, the blades at the high pressure stages are somewhat degenerated into a single helical foil each. Laminar flow cannot be used for pumping, because laminar turbines stall when not used at the designed flow. The pump can be cooled down to improve the compression, but should not be so cold as to condense ice on the blades.\nWhen a turbopump is stopped, the oil from the backing vacuum may backstream through the turbopump and contaminate the chamber. One way to prevent this is to introduce a laminar flow of nitrogen through the pump. The transition from vacuum to nitrogen and from a running to a still turbopump has to be synchronized precisely to avoid mechanical stress to the pump and overpressure at the exhaust. A thin membrane and a valve at the exhaust should be added to protect the turbopump from excessive back pressure (e.g. after a power failure or leaks in the backing vacuum).\n\nThe rotor is stabilized in all of its six degrees of freedom. One degree is governed by the electric motor. Minimally, this degree must be stabilized electronically (or by a diamagnetic material, which is too unstable to be used in a precision pump bearing). Another way (ignoring losses in magnetic cores at high frequencies) is to construct this bearing as an axis with a sphere at each end. These spheres are inside hollow static spheres. On the surface of each sphere is a checkerboard pattern of inwards and outwards going magnetic field lines. As the checkerboard pattern of the static spheres is rotated, the rotor rotates. In this construction no axis is made stable on the cost of making another axis unstable, but all axes are neutral and the electronic regulation is less stressed and will be more dynamically stable. Hall effect sensors can be used to sense the rotational position and the other degrees of freedom can be measured capacitively.\n\nAt atmospheric pressure, the mean free path of air is about 70 nm. A turbomolecular pump can work only if those molecules hit by the moving blades reach the stationary blades before colliding with other molecules on their way. To achieve that, the gap between moving blades and stationary blades must be close to or less than the mean free path. From a practical construction standpoint, a feasible gap between the blade sets is on the order of 1 mm, so a turbopump will stall (no net pumping) if exhausted directly to the atmosphere. Since the mean free path is inversely proportional to pressure, a turbopump will pump when the exhaust pressure is less than about where the mean free path is about 0.7 mm.\n\nMost turbopumps have a Holweck pump (or molecular drag pump) as their last stage to increase the maximum backing pressure (exhaust pressure) to about 1–10 mbar. Theoretically, a centrifugal pump, a side channel pump, or a regenerative pump could be used to back to atmospheric pressure directly, but currently there is no commercially available turbopump that exhausts directly to atmosphere. In most cases, the exhaust is connected to a mechanical backing pump (usually called roughing pump) that produces a pressure low enough for the turbomolecular pump to work efficiently. Typically, this backing pressure is below 0.1 mbar and commonly about 0.01 mbar. The backing pressure is rarely below 10 mbar (mean free path ≈ 70 mm) because the flow resistance of the vacuum pipe between the turbopump and the roughing pump becomes significant.\n\nThe turbomolecular pump can be a very versatile pump. It can generate many degrees of vacuum from intermediate vacuum (~10 Pa) up to ultra-high vacuum levels (~10 Pa).\n\nMultiple turbomolecular pumps in a lab or manufacturing-plant can be connected by tubes to a small backing pump. Automatic valves and diffusion pump like injection into a large buffer-tube in front of the backing pump prevents any overpressure from one pump to stall another pump.\n\nLaws of fluid dynamics do not provide good approximations for the behavior of individual, highly separated, non-interacting gas molecules, like those found in high vacuum environments. The maximum compression varies linearly with circumferential rotor speed. In order to obtain extremely low pressures down to 1 micropascal, rotation rates of 20,000 to 90,000 revolutions per minute are often necessary. Unfortunately, the compression ratio varies exponentially with the square root of the molecular weight of the gas. Thus, heavy molecules are pumped much more efficiently than light molecules. Most gases are heavy enough to be well pumped but it is difficult to pump hydrogen and helium efficiently.\n\nAn additional drawback stems from the high rotor speed of this type of pump: very high grade bearings are required, which increase the cost.\n\nBecause turbomolecular pumps only work in molecular flow conditions, a pure turbomolecular pump will require a very large backing pump to work effectively. Thus, many modern pumps have a molecular drag stage such as a Holweck or Gaede mechanism near the exhaust to reduce the size of backing pump required.\n\nMuch of recent turbo pump development has been focused on improvement of the effectiveness of the drag stages. As gas is removed from a pumped space, the lighter gases hydrogen and helium become a larger proportion of the remaining gas load. In recent years it has been demonstrated that the precise design of the surface geometry of the drag stages can have a marked effect on pumping of these light gases, improving compression ratios by up to two orders of magnitude for given pumping volume. As a result, it is possible to use much smaller backing pumps than would be required by pure turbomolecular pumps and/or design more compact turbomolecular pumps.\n\nThe turbomolecular pump was invented in 1958 by W. Becker, based on the older molecular drag pumps developed by Wolfgang Gaede in 1913, Fernand Holweck in 1923 and Manne Siegbahn in 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "316414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316414", "title": "Volcanic rock", "text": "Volcanic rock\n\nVolcanic rock (often shortened to volcanics in scientific contexts) is a rock formed from magma erupted from a volcano. In other words, it differs from other igneous rock by being of volcanic origin. Like all rock types, the concept of volcanic rock is artificial, and in nature volcanic rocks grade into hypabyssal and metamorphic rocks and constitute an important element of some sediments and sedimentary rocks. For these reasons, in geology, volcanics and shallow hypabyssal rocks are not always treated as distinct. In the context of Precambrian shield geology, the term \"volcanic\" is often applied to what are strictly metavolcanic rocks.\n\nVolcanic rocks are among the most common rock types on Earth's surface, particularly in the oceans. On land, they are very common at plate boundaries and in flood basalt provinces. It has been estimated that volcanic rocks cover about 8% of the Earth's current land surface.\n\nVolcanic rocks are usually fine-grained or aphanitic to glass in texture. They often contain clasts of other rocks and phenocrysts. Phenocrysts are crystals that are larger than the matrix and are identifiable with the unaided eye. Rhomb porphyry is an example with large rhomb shaped phenocrysts embedded in a very fine grained matrix.\n\nVolcanic rocks often have a vesicular texture caused by voids left by volatiles trapped in the molten lava. Pumice is a highly vesicular rock produced in explosive volcanic eruptions.\n\nMost modern petrologists classify igneous rocks, including volcanic rocks, \nby their chemistry when dealing with their origin. The fact that different mineralogies and textures may be developed from the same initial magmas has led petrologists to rely heavily on chemistry to look at a volcanic rock's origin.\n\nThe chemistry of volcanic rocks is dependent on two things: the initial composition of the primary magma and the subsequent differentiation. Differentiation of most volcanic rocks tends to increase the silica (SiO) content, mainly by crystal fractionation.\n\nThe initial composition of most volcanic rocks is basaltic, albeit small differences in initial compositions may result in multiple differentiation series. The most common of these series are tholeiitic, calc-alkaline, and alkaline.\n\nMost volcanic rocks share a number of common minerals. Differentiation of volcanic rocks tends to increase the silica (SiO) content mainly by fractional crystallization. Thus, more evolved volcanic rocks tend to be richer in minerals with a higher amount of silica such as phyllo and tectosilicates including the feldspars, quartz polymorphs and muscovite. While still dominated by silicates, more primitive volcanic rocks have mineral assemblages with less silica, such as olivine and the pyroxenes. Bowen's reaction series correctly predicts the order of formation of the most common minerals in volcanic rocks.\n\nOccasionally, a magma may pick up crystals that crystallized from another magma; these crystals are called xenocrysts. Diamonds found in kimberlites are rare but well-known xenocrysts; the kimberlites do not create the diamonds, but pick them up and transport them to the surface of the Earth.\n\nVolcanic rocks are named according to both their chemical composition and texture. Basalt is a very common volcanic rock with low silica content. Rhyolite is a volcanic rock with high silica content. Rhyolite has silica content similar to that of granite while basalt is compositionally equal to gabbro. Intermediate volcanic rocks include andesite, dacite, trachyte, and latite.\n\nPyroclastic rocks are the product of explosive volcanism. They are often felsic (high in silica). Pyroclastic rocks are often the result of volcanic debris, such as ash, bombs and tephra, and other volcanic ejecta. Examples of pyroclastic rocks are tuff and ignimbrite.\n\nShallow intrusions, which possess structure similar to volcanic rather than plutonic rocks, are also considered to be volcanic, shading into subvolcanic.\n\nThe terms lava stone and lava rock are more used by marketers than geologists, who would likely say \"volcanic rock\" (since lava is a molten liquid and rock is solid). \"Lava stone\" may describe anything from a friable silicic pumice to solid mafic flow basalt, and is sometimes used to describe rocks that were never lava, but look as if they were (such as sedimentary limestone with dissolution pitting). To convey anything about the physical or chemical properties of the rock, a more specific term should be used; a good supplier will know what sort of volcanic rock they are selling.\n\nThe sub-family of rocks that form from volcanic lava are called igneous volcanic rocks (to differentiate them from igneous rocks that form from magma below the surface, called igneous plutonic rocks).\n\nThe lavas of different volcanoes, when cooled and hardened, differ much in their appearance and composition. If a rhyolite lava-stream cools quickly, it can quickly freeze into a black glassy substance called obsidian. When filled with bubbles of gas, the same lava may form the spongy appearing pumice. Allowed to cool slowly, it forms a light-colored, uniformly solid rock called rhyolite.\n\nThe lavas, having cooled rapidly in contact with the air or water, are mostly finely crystalline or have at least fine-grained ground-mass representing that part of the viscous semi-crystalline lava flow that was still liquid at the moment of eruption. At this time they were exposed only to atmospheric pressure, and the steam and other gases, which they contained in great quantity were free to escape; many important modifications arise from this, the most striking being the frequent presence of numerous steam cavities (vesicular structure) often drawn out to elongated shapes subsequently filled up with minerals by infiltration (amygdaloidal structure).\n\nAs crystallization was going on while the mass was still creeping forward under the surface of the Earth, the latest formed minerals (in the ground-mass) are commonly arranged in subparallel winding lines that follow the direction of movement (fluxion or fluidal structure)—and larger early minerals that previously crystallized may show the same arrangement. Most lavas fall considerably below their original temperatures before emitted. In their behavior, they present a close analogy to hot solutions of salts in water, which, when they approach the saturation temperature, first deposit a crop of large, well-formed crystals (labile stage) and subsequently precipitate clouds of smaller less perfect crystalline particles (metastable stage).\n\nIn igneous rocks the first generation of crystals generally forms before the lava has emerged to the surface, that is to say, during the ascent from the subterranean depths to the crater of the volcano. It has frequently been verified by observation that freshly emitted lavas contain large crystals borne along in a molten, liquid mass. The large, well-formed, early crystals (phenocrysts) are said to be porphyritic; the smaller crystals of the surrounding matrix or ground-mass belong to the post-effusion stage. More rarely lavas are completely fused at the moment of ejection; they may then cool to form a non-porphyritic, finely crystalline rock, or if more rapidly chilled may in large part be non-crystalline or glassy (vitreous rocks such as obsidian, tachylyte, pitchstone).\n\nA common feature of glassy rocks is the presence of rounded bodies (spherulites), consisting of fine divergent fibres radiating from a center; they consist of imperfect crystals of feldspar, mixed with quartz or tridymite; similar bodies are often produced artificially in glasses that are allowed to cool slowly. Rarely these spherulites are hollow or consist of concentric shells with spaces between (lithophysae). Perlitic structure, also common in glasses, consists of the presence of concentric rounded cracks owing to contraction on cooling.\nThe phenocrysts or porphyritic minerals are not only larger than those of the ground-mass; as the matrix was still liquid when they formed they were free to take perfect crystalline shapes, without interference by the pressure of adjacent crystals. They seem to have grown rapidly, as they are often filled with enclosures of glassy or finely crystalline material like that of the ground-mass . Microscopic examination of the phenocrysts often reveals that they have had a complex history. Very frequently they show layers of different composition, indicated by variations in color or other optical properties; thus augite may be green in the center surrounded by various shades of brown; or they may be pale green centrally and darker green with strong pleochroism (aegirine) at the periphery.\n\nIn the feldspars the center is usually richer in calcium than the surrounding layers, and successive zones may often be noted, each less calcic than those within it. Phenocrysts of quartz (and of other minerals), instead of sharp, perfect crystalline faces, may show rounded corroded surfaces, with the points blunted and irregular tongue-like projections of the matrix into the substance of the crystal. It is clear that after the mineral had crystallized it was partly again dissolved or corroded at some period before the matrix solidified.\n\nCorroded phenocrysts of biotite and hornblende are very common in some lavas; they are surrounded by black rims of magnetite mixed with pale green augite. The hornblende or biotite substance has proved unstable at a certain stage of consolidation, and has been replaced by a paramorph of augite and magnetite, which may partially or completely substitute for the original crystal but still retains its characteristic outlines.\n\n"}
{"id": "674109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=674109", "title": "Zincite", "text": "Zincite\n\nZincite is the mineral form of zinc oxide (ZnO). Its crystal form is rare in nature; a notable exception to this is at the Franklin and Sterling Hill Mines in New Jersey, an area also famed for its many fluorescent minerals. It has a hexagonal crystal structure and a color that depends on the presence of impurities. The zincite found at the Franklin Furnace is red-colored, mostly due to iron and manganese dopants, and associated with willemite and franklinite.\nZincite crystals can be grown artificially, and synthetic zincite crystals are available as a by-product of zinc smelting. Synthetic crystals can be colorless or can range in color from dark red, orange, or yellow to light green. \nBoth natural and synthetic zincite crystals are significant for their early use as semiconductor crystal detectors in the early development of crystal radios before the advent of vacuum tubes. As an early radio detector it was used in conjunction with another mineral, galena, and this device was known as the cat's-whisker detector.\n\n\n"}
