{"id": "18597666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18597666", "title": "Andrzej Towiański", "text": "Andrzej Towiański\n\nAndrzej Tomasz Towiański (; January 1, 1799 – May 13, 1878) was a Polish philosopher and messianic religious leader.\n\nTowiański was born in Antoszwińce, a village near Vilnius, which after Partitions of Poland belonged to the Russian Empire. He was the charismatic leader of the Towiańskiite sect, known also as \"Koło Sprawy Bożej\" (the Circle of God's Cause). In 1839 he experienced a vision in which the Holy Ghost and the Virgin Mary urged him to act as a messenger of the Apocalypse. The Poles, the French—particularly Napoleon—and Jews were to play leading roles. Among those influenced by his thinking were the Polish Romantic poets Adam Mickiewicz, Juliusz Słowacki, and Seweryn Goszczyński.\n\nHis extraordinary influence on Mickiewicz, a leader of the Polish emigre community, was divisive, and some members of the community accused him of being a Russian agent.\n\nHe died in Zurich.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14389251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14389251", "title": "Animal rights in Colombia", "text": "Animal rights in Colombia\n\nAnimal rights in Colombia refers to topics related to Animal rights in Colombia. The Colombian constitution does not recognize animal rights. Law 84 of 1989 stipulates a statute to protect animals, with the exception of bullfighting and cock fights, which are considered to be part of the Culture of Colombia.\n\nDespite having a legislation against animal trafficking, Colombia is one of the major sources and routes for animal trafficking in the world. There are numerous non-governmental organizations working in Colombia on behalf of animal rights.\n\nThe Colombian Constitution does not officially establish an ethical duty of society to protect the environment, instead it does mention that people has the right to live in a healthy environment in chapter 3 about, Collective and Environmental rights. \n\nLaw 99 of 1993 established the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development but simply to guarantee service for humans. Animals were placed as belongings that served humans.\n\nIn 2014, Colombia received a D out of possible grades A,B,C,D,E,F,G on World Animal Protection's Animal Protection Index.\n\nLegal penalties of the interest of animal rights are stipulated in Law 599 of 2000 which ways that the illicit advantage taken of the renewable natural resources will be penalised. Trafficking, commercializing, taking advantage or benefiting of specimens, products or parts of the fauna or flora resources in danger will be penalized with between 2 and 5 years of prison and ten Colombian minimum monthly salaries. \n\nIn September 2003 a project or draft to reform Law 84 of 1989 did not pass in the Congress of Colombia. The reform proposed the imposition of legal penalties to those who did not abide by the law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5575882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5575882", "title": "Arnouphis", "text": "Arnouphis\n\nArnouphis or Harnuphis was an Egyptian who, according to Dio Cassius, saved the Roman legion XII Fulminata during a campaign against the Quadi in about AD 172 by calling up a rainstorm. Dio Cassius calls Arnouphis a \"magos\", originally a term for Zoroastrian priests. David Frankfurter says that Arnouphis was an Egyptian priest, but he was called a \"magos\" because Romans regarded priests from many Near Eastern cultures as fitting a single stereotype of exotic magicians.\n"}
{"id": "21590651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21590651", "title": "Bartholomew Des Bosses", "text": "Bartholomew Des Bosses\n\nBartholomew Des Bosses (29 August 1668, Chaineux; 17 April 1738, Cologne) was a Jesuit theologian and philosopher, known mainly for his voluminous correspondence with Leibniz.\n\nDes Bosses joined the Society of Jesus in 1686. In 1700 he taught at the Jesuit college in Emmerich, later moving to Hildesheim. He remained there until moving in 1710 to Cologne, taking up an appointment as professor of mathematics (and later moral philosophy) at the Jesuit college there. Apart from a stay in Paderborn in 1712 and 1713, he remained in Cologne for the rest of his life.\n\nDes Bosses met Leibniz sometime in 1705 and agreed to translate his Theodicee into Latin. Their correspondence continued until Leibniz's death in 1716. The letters contained a tentative elaboration of a new feature of Leibniz's philosophy known as the vinculum subtantiale (substantial bond).\n"}
{"id": "27142450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27142450", "title": "British Society of Aesthetics", "text": "British Society of Aesthetics\n\nThe British Society of Aesthetics (BSA) is a philosophical organization founded in 1960 to promote the study of aesthetics. The BSA sponsors national and regional conferences, and publishes the \"British Journal of Aesthetics\", \"Debates in Aesthetics\" (formerly \"The Postgraduate Journal of Aesthetics\"), as well as a newsletter. The organization also funds projects that promote the goals of the BSA.\n\n"}
{"id": "13691819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13691819", "title": "Chabad outreach", "text": "Chabad outreach\n\nChabad Hasidic outreach is a Kiruv phenomena, whereby Chabad Chasidim attempt to encourage Jews to adopt Orthodox Jewish observance.\n\nRabbi Yosef Yitzchok Schneersohn, 6th leader of the Chabad-Lubavitch branch of Hasidic Judaism, and then his successor, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson were responsible for focusing Chabad's activities on outreach. Each sent out large numbers of rabbinic emissaries, known as \"Shluchim\", to settle in places across the world for outreach purposes. The centers that these Shluchim established were termed \"Chabad houses.\" Rabbi Schneerson was a pioneer in the field of Orthodox Judaism outreach (\"Kiruv\").\n\nChabad has been active in reaching out to Jews through its synagogues, and various forms of more direct outreach efforts. The organization has been recognized as one of the leaders in using free holiday services to reach out across denominations.\n\nRabbi Yosef Yitzchok Schneersohn, had a core of dedicated Hasidim who maintained underground yeshivos and mikvehs, and provided shechitah and ritual circumcision services in the Soviet Union.\n\nChabad, with its dozens of Chabad Houses throughout the world, where yeshiva programs for Israelis, Russians, French, and Americans, reach out to thousands. Followers of Chabad can be seen attending to tefillin booths at the Western Wall and Ben Gurion International Airport as well as other public places, and distributing Shabbat candles on Fridays.\n\nChabad rabbis and their families are sent to teach college students, to build day schools, and to create youth camps. Many of these efforts are geared towards secular or less religious Jews. Additionally, unmarried rabbinical students spend weeks during the summer in locations that do not yet have a permanent Chabad presence, making housecalls, putting up mezuzot and teaching about Judaism. This is known as Merkos Shlichus.\n\nRabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson also initiated a Jewish children's movement, called Tzivos Hashem (lit. \"Army [of] God\"), for under bar/bat mitzvah-age children, to inspire them to increase in study of Torah and observance of mitzvot.\n\nRabbi Schneerson also encouraged the use of modern technology in outreach efforts such as Mitzva tanks, which are mobile homes that travel a city or country. The Chabad website, chabad.org, a pioneer of Jewish religious outreach on the Internet, was started by Rabbi Yosef Y. Kazen and developed by Rabbi D. Zirkind.\n\nIn June 1994, Rabbi Schneerson died with no successor. Since then, over two thousand couples have taken up communal leadership roles in outreach, bringing the estimated total number of \"Shluchim\" to over four thousand worldwide.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "56376127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56376127", "title": "Chinsō", "text": "Chinsō\n\nChinsō 頂相 (alternatively pronounced Chinzō) are commemorative portraits of Zen masters, a traditional form of East Asian art, specifically Zen art. They can be painted or sculpted and usually present a Zen master ceremonially dressed and seated upright in chair. Chinsō include realistic portraits of prominent Zen monks, possibly commissioned by them and painted while they were alive or shortly after they died, as well as depictions of famous Zen patriarchs from the pastcommissioned by his disciples.\n\nChinsō were believed to have been passed down by Zen masters to their disciples as a symbol of dharma transmission, and known to have been meant for use in rituals, especially to represent the deceased during memorial services, and as an icon for their followers. Before monks would die, they would sometimes write a simple poem in the upper part of their portrait called eulogy, or have another author or monk write an inscription at the top. In Japan many remaining sculptural Buddhist chinsō are made out of wood, which may explain why so few remain in China and Korea on account of the Huichang persecution when most wooden sculptures perished. Some of the oldest surviving chinsō of Chan masters were brought from China to Japan; about 12 of those are extant.\n\nChinsō flourished during the Song (960-1279) and Yuan (1279-1368) dynasties in China, and were introduced in Japan during the Kamakura period (1185-1333). They are considered historically significant because of their antiquity, preservation and artistic quality. There are about 70 known surviving chinsō from China and Japan from the thirteenth and sixteenth centuries that are designated “national treasures,” but about ten times that number have survived in Japanese museums and temple collections.\n\nChinsō emerged from mainstream traditions of Chinese portraiture during the Song dynasty (960-1279). Nothing visually distinguished them from other portraits done at the time of Chinese elite; the formal qualities were all the same. Chinsō are mainly understood to follow this basic formula: the monk is seated cross legged in a chair, feet hidden, with his shoes on a footstool in front of him, in a three quarter view, and ceremonially dressed with inner and outer robes and a kasaya or surplice draped over his left shoulder. The surplice is can be held together with an ornamental ring right over the monk’s heart. He usually holds something in his right hand, like a whisk, scepter, staff or bamboo. They follow the highest standard for painting at the time. As well as following the same basic formula of Chinese portraiture, chinsō assumed the characteristics of Chinese portraiture in general. These included private ownership, verse inscriptions, their role in social networks. Surviving chinsō also include many works created in Japan once Zen Buddhism was brought there from China.\nWhen Zen Buddhism was brought to Japan from China, the Chinese style of portraiture as well as these traditions surrounding chinsō, were brought with them. This realistic style was not typical in Japan and set chinsō apart from other portraits at the time in Japan because of their high degree of verisimilitude. Although most easily identifiable chinsō have the subject seated in a chair, in three quarter profile against a black background, with an inscription at the top, not all chinsō followed this rigid formula. The portraits of Japanese monks Mokuan Shuyu and Ikkyu Sojun represent this identifiable formula, but the alternative version of Ikkyu Sojun does not. Instead of being seated in three quarter view, the monk or patriarch could be shown frontally, or as a full figure, and could be in a circular frame instead of simply as a figure against a blank background. Less common are chinsō showing a monk in meditation in a landscape setting, where he could be either walking or sitting. Chinsō are usually inscribed at the top with a eulogy written in free verse, describing who the patriarch was, why it was made and possibly who wrote the eulogy and why. Some scholars distinguish chinsō from the soshizō 祖師像 category, which includes portraits of legendary patriarchs from the distant past, by checking whether or not the portrait is inscribed. It’s also important to note that the soshizō were not as realistic as the chinsō.\nChinsō, or dingxiang in Chinese, is a Chinese Buddhist neologism, and was originally a translation for the Sanskrit term uṣṇīṣa. The usnisa is the term coined for the fleshy protuberance on top of the Buddha’s head. In India it was said to be invisible because it is unable to be seen by living beings. During the Song dynasty in China, the term chinsō began being used for portraits of Zen monks as we know the term today. The existence of a protuberance on top of a Buddha’s head represented the fact he had reached enlightenment, similar to how chinsō were thought to prove enlightenment when passed down from a monk to his disciple. \n\nChinsō have been known to serve many purposes throughout their history. The category includes portraits commissioned by the Zen monks themselves and painted while they are alive or shortly after they had died, and portraits commissioned by famous Zen patriarchs’ disciples to be used for worship. Scholars have also concluded that they could have been used as certificates or proof of dharma transmission. By proof of dharma transmission, it is meant that the portraits were thought to have been passed down from Zen master to their disciples when they became enlightened, since dharma transmission is the recognition of the enlightenment in a monk’s successor and the passing down of lineage. This theory has since been questioned by scholars. Since the category of chinsō is so broad and includes portraits used for worship as well as portraits used to represent dharma transmission, the category could use stricter guidelines for classifying portrait as chinsō. The true function of chinsō is under questions by scholars for the purpose of clarifying the category.\n\nMore recently (since about 1994) it has come to the attention of scholars that chinsō were used in a mortuary context, rather than used to certify or authenticate dharma transmission. This was particularly the case in China. They were used after monks had died, meaning that they were used like other icons are: as a receptacle for a deity in a ritual context, like objects of worship in temples. An article by T. Griffith Foulk and Robert Sharf published in 1994 attempted to demystify this part of Zen culture by clarifying that chinsō did not serve as evidence of dharma transmission but are simply a category of Buddhist portraiture used in a mortuary context. Their inscriptions provide possible legitimization to lineage of transmission and possible affiliation, but are said to not have been given for the sole purpose of certifying enlightenment. This argument is supported by their claims that chinsō, unlike more important items for representing transmission like a monk’s robes, were passed out freely in China to “laymen, novices, merchants, and the like”. Their argument goes on to say chinsō could have just been part of the regular gift giving tradition. Different recipients of chinsō include designated dharma heirs associated with specific linages, another meaningful relation to the monk, who received the portrait as a gift or an anonymous person who received the portrait at a fundraiser (a “hauzshu” in Chinese). The purpose and usage of chinsō is still in question by scholars. \n\nSome dharma lineages have been heavily influenced by portraiture. For example, the Portrait of Chikotsu Dai’e established Chikotsu Dai’e 癡兀大慧 (1229-1312) as a disciple of the Chan monk Enni Ben’e 円爾弁円(1202-1280) because the inscription of the chinsō is similar to that of Enni Ben’en’s on his own portrait, and Enni’s is similar to that of his predecessor Wuzun Shifan 無準師範 (1178-1249), a Chinese Chan monk. The portrait of Wuzun Shih-fan was brought by his disciple Enni Ben’en to Japan in 1241 and is one of the oldest surviving chinsō. Chikotsu Dai’e’s portrait thus establishes the genealogical sequence of Wuzun Shih-fan to Enni and then to Chikotsu. Even though it is unclear if chinsō served as certificates of dharma transmission, throughout history they have been used to show a direct line of dharma transmission and lineage. The portraits of these three monks show a clear acknowledgment of enlightenment from one monk to his disciple, from Wuzun Shih-fan to Enni Ben’en to Chikotsu Dai’e. Although each monk may not have passed down their chinsō to his disciple as proof of transmission, we can undertsand the history of lineage as being shown through the passing down of the portraits.\n"}
{"id": "36897949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36897949", "title": "Choe Ik-hyeon", "text": "Choe Ik-hyeon\n\nChoi Ik-hyeon (Hangul:최익현, Hanja:崔益鉉, Pen name: Myonahm 1833-1906, also transliterated as Choi Ik-hyun) was a Korean Joseon Dynasty scholar, politician, philosopher, and general of the Korean Righteous Army guerrilla forces. He was a strong supporter of Neo-Confucianism and a very vocal nationalist, who defended Korean Sovereignty in the face of Japanese Imperialism.\n\nChoi Ik-hyeon was born in Pocheon city, Gyeonggi Province and passed the civil service examination in 1855, beginning his service under the 25th Joseon King, Cheoljong of Joseon, as a government official and administrator of various offices. He continued serving under the Heungseon Daewongun and later his son, King Gojong of the Korean Empire.\n\nIn 1872, 20-year-old Gojong son of regent Daewongun seemed ready to take the throne, but the Daewongun showed little inclination to give up his power. Junior minister Choi put out a fiery impeachment pointing out the Daewongun’s many wicked deeds such as the selling of political offices and positions, the unnecessary using of people’s taxes to reconstruct the Gyeongbokgung Palace, the closing of Confucian academies, and his unsuccessful attempts at preventing foreign ships from entering Korea.\n\nIronically, Choi’s ideology was very similar to that of the Daewongun, in that they were both highly anti-foreign. Nevertheless, Choi was severely disappointed with the actions of the Regent, and his political backing by the family of soon-to-be Queen Myeongseong also inspired his impeachment of the Regent.\n\nDaewongun's supporters banished Choi to Jeju Province Island but his initiation allowed others who were discontent to speak out against the Regent, as a result leading to the Daewongun's retirement to Yangju, and Choi was soon reinstated to office by King Gojong.\n\nIn 1876, King Gojong called his trusted advisers together previous to the signing of the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1876, a treaty which would open the doors of Korea to Japan, for advice. Choi led conservative gentry opposition to the Treaty, declaring that the Treaty would be harmful to the nation, in that it would lead to the influx of Western thought such as Catholicism, and the economic invasion of Korean markets by Japanese goods. As a result of his outspokenness against the Treaty, Choi was taken out of office by the Japanese soon after it was signed.\n\nThe signing of the Treaty and his subsequent banishment caused Choi to re-initiate traditional Uijong Jeoksa movements among the people to revive Confucian values and cast out western and Japanese ideas.\n\nDuring the period 1876-1894, Choi Ik-hyeon along with other conservative Yangban who had studied under Yi Hang-no, initiated anti-Japanese movements across the country with the purpose of ousting anything foreign from the country and reinstating traditional Confucian values. These movements were generally violent as they, Choi included, considered the Japanese as no better than the “western barbarians” for adopting their ways.\n\nAfter the murder of Queen Min in 1895, Japanese-backed Gabo Reformers forced the King to sign an edict decreeing that all Korean males must cut their topknot. Choi and other Confucian conservative officials were outraged, with Choi himself declaring that he would rather cut off his head before cutting his hair. Choi and his colleagues led armed resistance, known as Righteous Army among the countryside, attacking Japanese soldiers, merchants, and pro-Japanese Koreans known as Chinilpa.\n\nShortly following the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1905 which made Korea a Protectorate of Japan, then 70-year-old Ch’oe Ikhyon sent a letter to Emperor Gojong(Gojong declares his nation the Korean Empire in 1897 and establish himself as an Emperor) pleading for him to resist the Japanese incursions and shortly thereafter wrote, \"An Appeal to Arms\". Choi's \"An Appeal To Arms\" was a declaration written to the Korean people to take up arms against the invasion of the Japanese and to revitalize the spirit of the Righteous Army.\n\nChoi quickly gained 400 supporters and personally fought the Japanese initially in Taein, and later in Sunchang County in 1906. He was soon arrested, however, and was sent to Tsushima Island where he refused to eat the food given to him by the Japanese and died in exile 3 months later.\n\nChoi's efforts in encouraging armed resistance through the Righteous Army Movement would last well until 1911, years after he died, in no small part as a result of his instilling of nationalism and the hatred for Japan in his supporters. His works contained in Myunam Jip, would also be preserved by his disciples despite multiple purges of nationalistic books by Japanese officials.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2050705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2050705", "title": "Czech philosophy", "text": "Czech philosophy\n\nCzech philosophy, has often eschewed \"pure\" speculative philosophy, emerging rather in the course of intellectual debates in the fields of education (e.g. Jan Amos Komenský), art (e.g. Karel Teige), literature (e.g. Milan Kundera), and especially politics (e.g. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, Karel Kosík, Ivan Sviták, Václav Havel). \n\nCzech philosophers have also played a central role in the development of phenomenology, whose German-speaking founder Edmund Husserl was born in the Czech lands. Czechs Jan Patočka and Václav Bělohradský would later make important contributions to phenomenological thought.\n"}
{"id": "412326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412326", "title": "Democratic peace theory", "text": "Democratic peace theory\n\nDemocratic peace theory is a theory which posits that democracies are hesitant to engage in armed conflict with other identified democracies. In contrast to theories explaining war engagement, it is a \"theory of peace\" outlining motives that dissuade state-sponsored violence.\n\nSome theorists prefer terms such as \"mutual democratic pacifism\" or \"inter-democracy nonaggression hypothesis\" so as to clarify that a state of peace is not singular to democracies, but rather that it is easily sustained between democratic nations.\n\nAmong proponents of the democratic peace theory, several factors are held as motivating peace between democratic states:\n\nThose who dispute this theory often do so on grounds that it conflates correlation with causation, and that the academic definitions of 'democracy' and 'war' can be manipulated so as to manufacture an artificial trend.\n\nThough the democratic peace theory was not rigorously or scientifically studied until the 1960s, the basic principles of the concept had been argued as early as the 1700s in the works of philosopher Immanuel Kant and political theorist Thomas Paine. Kant foreshadowed the theory in his essay \"\" written in 1795, although he thought that a world with only constitutional republics was only one of several necessary conditions for a perpetual peace. Kant's theory was that a majority of the people would never vote to go to war, unless in self-defense. Therefore, if all nations were republics, it would end war, because there would be no aggressors. In earlier but less cited works, Thomas Paine made similar or stronger claims about the peaceful nature of republics. Paine wrote in \"Common Sense\" in 1776: \"The Republics of Europe are all (and we may say always) in peace.\" Paine argued that kings would go to war out of pride in situations where republics would not. French historian and social scientist Alexis de Tocqueville also argued, in \"Democracy in America\" (1835–1840), that democratic nations were less likely to wage war.\n\nDean Babst, a criminologist, was the first to do statistical research on this topic. His academic paper supporting the theory was published in 1964 in \"Wisconsin Sociologist\"; he published a slightly more popularized version, in 1972, in the trade journal \"Industrial Research\". Both versions initially received little attention.\n\nMelvin Small and J. David Singer (1976: 50–69) responded; they found an absence of wars between democratic states with two \"marginal exceptions\", but denied that this pattern had statistical significance. This paper was published in the \"Jerusalem Journal of International Relations\" which finally brought more widespread attention to the theory, and started the academic debate. A 1983 paper by political scientist Michael W. Doyle contributed further to popularizing the theory. Rudolph J. Rummel was another early researcher and drew considerable lay attention to the subject in his later works.\n\nMaoz & Abdolali (1989) extended the research to lesser conflicts than wars. Bremer (1992) and Maoz & Russett (1993) found the correlation between democracy and peacefulness remained significant after controlling for many possible confounding variables. This moved the theory into the mainstream of social science. Supporters of realism in international relations and others responded by raising many new objections. Other researchers attempted more systematic explanations of how democracy might cause peace (Köchler 1995), and of how democracy might also affect other aspects of foreign relations such as alliances and collaboration (Ray 2003).\n\nThere have been numerous further studies in the field since these pioneering works. Most studies have found some form of democratic peace exists, although neither methodological disputes nor doubtful cases are entirely resolved (Kinsella 2005).\n\nResearch on the democratic peace theory has to define \"democracy\" and \"peace\" (or, more often, \"war\").\n\nDemocracies have been defined differently by different theorists and researchers; this accounts for some of the variations in their findings. Some examples:\n\nSmall and Singer (1976) define democracy as a nation that (1) holds periodic elections in which the opposition parties are as free to run as government parties, (2) allows at least 10% of the adult population to vote, and (3) has a parliament that either controls or enjoys parity with the executive branch of the government.\n\nDoyle (1983) requires (1) that \"liberal regimes\" have market or private property economics, (2) they have policies that are internally sovereign, (3) they have citizens with juridical rights, and (4) they have representative governments. Either 30% of the adult males were able to vote or it was possible for every man to acquire voting rights as by attaining enough property. He allows greater power to hereditary monarchs than other researchers; for example, he counts the rule of Louis-Philippe of France as a liberal regime.\n\nRay (1995) requires that at least 50% of the adult population is allowed to vote and that there has been at least one peaceful, constitutional transfer of executive power from one independent political party to another by means of an election. This definition excludes long periods often viewed as democratic. For example, the United States until 1800, India from independence until 1979, and Japan until 1993 were all under one-party rule, and thus would not be counted under this definition (Ray 1995, p. 100).\n\nRummel (1997) states that \"By democracy is meant liberal democracy, where those who hold power are elected in competitive elections with a secret ballot and wide franchise (loosely understood as including at least 2/3 of adult males); where there is freedom of speech, religion, and organization; and a constitutional framework of law to which the government is subordinate and that guarantees equal rights.\"\n\nThe above definitions are binary, classifying nations into either democracies or non-democracies. Many researchers have instead used more finely grained scales. One example is the Polity data series which scores each state on two scales, one for democracy and one for autocracy, for each year since 1800; as well as several others. The use of the Polity Data has varied. Some researchers have done correlations between the democracy scale and belligerence; others have treated it as a binary classification by (as its maker does) calling all states with a high democracy score and a low autocracy score democracies; yet others have used the difference of the two scores, sometimes again making this into a binary classification (Gleditsch 1992).\n\nSeveral researchers have observed that many of the possible exceptions to the democratic peace have occurred when at least one of the involved democracies was very young. Many of them have therefore added a qualifier, typically stating that the peacefulness apply to democracies older than three years (Doyle 1983, Russett 1993, Rummel 1997, Weart 1998). Rummel (1997) argues that this is enough time for \"democratic procedures to be accepted, and democratic culture to settle in.\" Additionally, this may allow for other states to actually come to the recognition of the state as a democracy.\n\nMansfield and Snyder (2002, 2005), while agreeing that there have been no wars between mature liberal democracies, state that countries in transition to democracy are especially likely to be involved in wars. They find that democratizing countries are even more warlike than stable democracies, stable autocracies or even countries in transition towards autocracy. So, they suggest caution in eliminating these wars from the analysis, because this might hide a negative aspect of the process of democratization. A reanalysis of the earlier study's statistical results emphasizes that the above relationship between democratization and war can only be said to hold for those democratizing countries where the executive lacks sufficient power, independence, and institutional strength. A review cites several other studies finding that the increase in the risk of war in democratizing countries happens only if many or most of the surrounding nations are undemocratic. If wars between young democracies are included in the analysis, several studies and reviews still find enough evidence supporting the stronger claim that all democracies, whether young or established, go into war with one another less frequently (Ray 1998), (Ray 2003), , while some do not .\n\nQuantitative research on international wars usually define war as a military conflict with more than 1000 killed in battle in one year. This is the definition used in the Correlates of War Project which has also supplied the data for many studies on war. It turns out that most of the military conflicts in question fall clearly above or below this threshold (Ray 1995, p. 103).\n\nSome researchers have used different definitions. For example, Weart (1998) defines war as more than 200 battle deaths. Russett (1993, p. 50), when looking at Ancient Greece, only requires some real battle engagement, involving on both sides forces under state authorization.\n\nMilitarized Interstate Disputes (MIDs), in the Correlates of War Project classification, are lesser conflicts than wars. Such a conflict may be no more than military display of force with no battle deaths. MIDs and wars together are \"militarized interstate conflicts\" or MICs. MIDs include the conflicts that precede a war; so the difference between MIDs and MICs may be less than it appears.\n\nStatistical analysis and concerns about degrees of freedom are the primary reasons for using MID's instead of actual wars. Wars are relatively rare. An average ratio of 30 MIDs to one war provides a richer statistical environment for analysis.\n\nMost research is regarding the \"dyadic\" peace, that democracies do not fight one another. Very few researchers have supported the \"monadic\" peace, that democracies are more peaceful in general. There are some recent papers that find a slight monadic effect. Müller and Wolff (2004), in listing them, agree \"that democracies on average might be slightly, but not strongly, less warlike than other states,\" but general \"monadic explanations is neither necessary nor convincing.\" They note that democracies have varied greatly in their belligerence against non-democracies.\n\nSome scholars support the democratic peace on probabilistic grounds: since many wars have been fought since democracies first arose, we might expect a proportionate number of wars to have occurred between democracies, if democracies fought each other as freely as other pairs of states; but proponents of democratic peace theory claim that the number is much less than might be expected. However, opponents of the theory argue this is mistaken and claim there are numerous examples of wars between democracies.\n\nHistorically, cases commonly cited as exceptions include the Sicilian Expedition, the Spanish–American War, and more recently the Kargil War. Doyle (1983) cites the Paquisha War and the Lebanese air force's intervention in the Six-Day War. The total number of cases suggested in the literature is at least 50. The data set Bremer (1993) was using showed one exception, the French-Thai War of 1940; Gleditsch (1995) sees the (somewhat technical) state of war between Finland and UK during World War II, as a special case, which should probably be treated separately: an incidental state of war between democracies during large multi-polar wars (Gowa 1999; Maoz 1997, p. 165). However, the UK did bomb Finland, implying the war was not only on paper. Page Fortna (2004) discusses the 1974 Turkish invasion of Cyprus and the Kargil War as exceptions, finding the latter to be the most significant. However, the status of these countries as being truly democratic is a matter of debate. For instance, in Spain in 1898, two parties alternated in the government in a controlled process known as \"el turno pacífico\", and the caciques, powerful local figures, were used to manipulate election results, and as a result resentment of the system slowly built up over time and important nationalist movements as well as unions started to form. Similarly, the Turkish intervention in Cyprus occurred only after the Cypriot elected government was abolished in a coup sponsored by the military government of Greece.\n\nLimiting the theory to only truly stable and genuine democracies leads to a very restrictive set of highly prosperous nations with little incentive in armed conflict that might harm their economies, in which the theory might be expected to hold virtually by definition.\n\nOne advocate of the democratic peace explains that his reason to choose a definition of democracy sufficiently restrictive to exclude \"all\" wars between democracies are what \"might be disparagingly termed \"public relations\"\": students and politicians will be more impressed by such a claim than by claims that wars between democracies are less likely.\n\nOne problem with the research on wars is that, as the Realist Mearsheimer (1990, p. 50) put it, \"democracies have been few in number over the past two centuries, and thus there have been few opportunities where democracies were in a position to fight one another\". Democracies have been very rare until recently. Even looser definitions of democracy, such as Doyle's, find only a dozen democracies before the late nineteenth century, and many of them short-lived or with limited franchise (Doyle 1983), (Doyle 1997, p. 261). Freedom House finds no independent state with universal suffrage in 1900.\n\nWayman (1998), a supporter of the theory, states that \"If we rely solely on whether there has been an inter-democratic war, it is going to take many more decades of peace to build our confidence in the stability of the democratic peace\".\n\nMany researchers have reacted to this limitation by studying lesser conflicts instead, since they have been far more common. There have been many more MIDs than wars; the Correlates of War Project counts several thousand during the last two centuries. A review lists many studies that have reported that democratic pairs of states are less likely to be involved in MIDs than other pairs of states.\n\nAnother study finds that after both states have become democratic, there is a decreasing probability for MIDs within a year and this decreases almost to zero within five years.\n\nWhen examining the inter-liberal MIDs in more detail, one study finds that they are less likely to involve third parties, and that the target of the hostility is less likely to reciprocate, if the target reciprocates the response is usually proportional to the provocation, and the disputes are less likely to cause any loss of life. The most common action was \"Seizure of Material or Personnel\".\n\nStudies find that the probability that disputes between states will be resolved peacefully is positively affected by the degree of democracy exhibited by the lesser democratic state involved in that dispute. Disputes between democratic states are significantly shorter than disputes involving at least one undemocratic state. Democratic states are more likely to be amenable to third party mediation when they are involved in disputes with each other .\n\nIn international crises that include the threat or use of military force, one study finds that if the parties are democracies, then relative military strength has no effect on who wins. This is different from when nondemocracies are involved. These results are the same also if the conflicting parties are formal allies . Similarly, a study of the behavior of states that joined ongoing militarized disputes reports that power is important only to autocracies: democracies do not seem to base their alignment on the power of the sides in the dispute .\n\nAccording to a 2017 review study, \"there is enough evidence to conclude that democracy does cause peace at least between democracies, that the observed correlation between democracy and peace is not spurious.\"\n\nMost studies have looked only at who is involved in the conflicts and ignored the question of who initiated the conflict. In many conflicts both sides argue that the other side was initiator. Several researchers, as described in (Gleditsch, Christiansen & Hegre 2004), have argued that studying conflict initiation is of limited value, because existing data about conflict initiation may be especially unreliable. Even so, several studies have examined this. Reiter and Stam (2003) argue that autocracies initiate conflicts against democracies more frequently than democracies do against autocracies. Quackenbush and Rudy (2006), while confirming Reiter and Stam's results, find that democracies initiate wars against nondemocracies more frequently than nondemocracies do to each other. Several following studies (Peceny & Beer 2003), (Peceny & Butler 2004), (Lai & Slater 2006) have studied how different types of autocracies with different institutions vary regarding conflict initiation. Personalistic and military dictatorships may be particularly prone to conflict initiation, as compared to other types of autocracy such as one party states, but also more likely to be targeted in a war having other initiators.\n\nOne 2017 study found that democracies are no less likely to settle border disputes peacefully than non-democracies.\n\nMost of this article discusses research on relations between states. However, there is also evidence that democracies have less internal systematic violence. For instance, one study finds that the most democratic and the most authoritarian states have few civil wars, and intermediate regimes the most. The probability for a civil war is also increased by political change, regardless whether toward greater democracy or greater autocracy. Intermediate regimes continue to be the most prone to civil war, regardless of the time since the political change. In the long run, since intermediate regimes are less stable than autocracies, which in turn are less stable than democracies, durable democracy is the most probable end-point of the process of democratization . Abadie (2004) study finds that the most democratic nations have the least terrorism. Harff (2003) finds that genocide and politicide are rare in democracies. Rummel (1997) finds that the more democratic a regime, the less its democide. He finds that democide has killed six times as many people as battles.\n\nDavenport and Armstrong (2004) lists several other studies and states: \"Repeatedly, democratic political systems have been found to decrease political bans, censorship, torture, disappearances and mass killing, doing so in a linear fashion across diverse measurements, methodologies, time periods, countries, and contexts.\" It concludes: \"Across measures and methodological techniques, it is found that below a certain level, democracy has no impact on human rights violations, but above this level democracy influences repression in a negative and roughly linear manner.\" Davenport and Armstrong (2003) states that thirty years worth of statistical research has revealed that only two variables decrease human rights violations: political democracy and economic development.\n\nAbulof and Ogen add a caveat, focusing on the contemporary Middle East and North Africa (MENA). Statistically, a MENA democracy makes a country more prone to both the onset and incidence of civil war, and the more democratic a MENA state is, the more likely it is to experience violent intrastate strife. Moreover, anocracies do not seem to be predisposed to civil war, either worldwide or in MENA. Looking for causality beyond correlation, they suggest that democracy’s pacifying effect is partly mediated through societal subscription to self-determination and popular sovereignty. This may turn “democratizing nationalism” to a long-term prerequisite, not just an immediate hindrance, to peace and democracy.\n\nThese theories have traditionally been categorized into two groups: explanations that focus on democratic norms and explanations that focus on democratic\npolitical structures , . Note that they usually are meant to be explanations for little violence between democracies, not for a low level of internal violence in democracies.\n\nSeveral of these mechanisms may also apply to countries of similar systems. The book \"Never at War\" finds evidence for an oligarchic peace. One example is the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, in which the Sejm resisted and vetoed most royal proposals for war, like those of Władysław IV Vasa.\n\nOne example from the first group is that liberal democratic culture may make the leaders accustomed to negotiation and compromise , (Müller & Wolff 2004). Another that a belief in human rights may make people in democracies reluctant to go to war, especially against other democracies. The decline in colonialism, also by democracies, may be related to a change in perception of non-European peoples and their rights .\n\nBruce Russett (1993, p. 5–11, 35, 59–62, 73–4) also argues that the democratic culture affects the way leaders resolve conflicts. In addition, he holds that a social norm emerged toward the end of the nineteenth century; that democracies should not fight each other, which strengthened when the democratic culture and the degree of democracy increased, for example by widening the franchise. Increasing democratic stability allowed partners in foreign affairs to perceive a nation as reliably democratic. The alliances between democracies during the two World Wars and the Cold War also strengthened the norms. He sees less effective traces of this norm in Greek antiquity.\n\nHans Köchler (1995) relates the question of transnational democracy to empowering the individual citizen by involving him, through procedures of direct democracy, in a country's international affairs, and he calls for the restructuring of the United Nations Organization according to democratic norms. He refers in particular to the Swiss practice of participatory democracy.\n\nMousseau (2000, 2005) argues that it is market-oriented development that creates the norms and values that explain both democracy and the peace. In less developed countries individuals often depend on social networks that impose conformity to in-group norms and beliefs, and loyalty to group leaders. When jobs are plentiful on the market, in contrast, as in market-oriented developed countries, individuals depend on a strong state that enforces contracts equally. Cognitive routines emerge of abiding by state law rather than group leaders, and, as in contracts, tolerating differences among individuals. Voters in marketplace democracies thus accept only impartial ‘liberal’ governments, and constrain leaders to pursue their interests in securing equal access to global markets and in resisting those who distort such access with force. Marketplace democracies thus share common foreign policy interests in the supremacy—and predictability—of international law over brute power politics, and equal and open global trade over closed trade and imperial preferences. When disputes do originate between marketplace democracies, they are less likely than others to escalate to violence because both states, even the stronger one, perceive greater long-term interests in the supremacy of law over power politics.\n\nThe case for institutional constraints goes back to Kant (1795), who wrote:\n\nDemocracy thus gives influence to those most likely to be killed or wounded in wars, and their relatives and friends (and to those who pay the bulk of the war taxes) Russett (1993, p. 30). This monadic theory must, however, explain why democracies do attack non-democratic states. One explanation is that these democracies were threatened or otherwise were provoked by the non-democratic states. Doyle (1997, p. 272) argued that the absence of a monadic peace is only to be expected: the same ideologies that cause liberal states to be at peace with each other inspire idealistic wars with the illiberal, whether to defend oppressed foreign minorities or avenge countrymen settled abroad. Doyle also notes (p. 292) liberal states do conduct covert operations against each other; the covert nature of the operation, however, prevents the publicity otherwise characteristic of a free state from applying to the question\n\nStudies show that democratic states are more likely than autocratic states to win the wars. One explanation is that democracies, for internal political and economic reasons, have greater resources. This might mean that democratic leaders are unlikely to select other democratic states as targets because they perceive them to be particularly formidable opponents. One study finds that interstate wars have important impacts on the fate of political regimes, and that the probability that a political leader will fall from power in the wake of a lost war is particularly high in democratic states .\n\nAs described in , several studies have argued that liberal leaders face institutionalized constraints that impede their capacity to mobilize the state’s resources for war without the consent of a broad spectrum of interests. Survey results that compare the attitudes of citizens and elites in the Soviet successor states are consistent with this argument . Moreover, these constraints are readily apparent to other states and cannot be manipulated by leaders. Thus, democracies send credible signals to other states of an aversion to using force. These signals allow democratic states to avoid conflicts with one another, but they may attract aggression from nondemocratic states. Democracies may be pressured to respond to such aggression—perhaps even preemptively—through the use of force. Also as described in , studies have argued that when democratic leaders do choose to escalate international crises, their threats are taken as highly credible, since there must be a relatively large public opinion for these actions. In disputes between liberal states, the credibility of their bargaining signals allows them to negotiate a peaceful settlement before mobilization.\n\nAn explanation based on game theory similar to the last two above is that the participation of the public and the open debate send clear and reliable information regarding the intentions of democracies to other states. In contrast, it is difficult to know the intentions of nondemocratic leaders, what effect concessions will have, and if promises will be kept. Thus there will be mistrust and unwillingness to make concessions if at least one of the parties in a dispute is a nondemocracy .\n\nThe risk factors for certain types of state have, however, changed since Kant's time. In the quote above, Kant points to the lack of popular support for war – first that the populace will directly or indirectly suffer in the event of war – as a reason why republics will not tend to go to war. The number of American troops killed or maimed versus the number of Iraqi soldiers and civilians maimed and killed in the American-Iraqi conflict is indicative. This may explain the relatively great willingness of democratic states to attack weak opponents: the Iraq war was, initially at least, highly popular in the United States. The case of the Vietnam War might, nonetheless, indicate a tipping point where publics may no longer accept continuing attrition of their soldiers (even while remaining relatively indifferent to the much higher loss of life on the part of the populations attacked).\n\nColeman (2002) uses economic cost-benefit analysis to reach conclusions similar to Kant's. Coleman examines the polar cases of autocracy and liberal democracy. In both cases, the costs of war are assumed to be borne by the people. In autocracy, the autocrat receives the entire benefits of war, while in a liberal democracy the benefits are dispersed among the people. Since the net benefit to an autocrat exceeds the net benefit to a citizen of a liberal democracy, the autocrat is more likely to go to war. The disparity of benefits and costs can be so high that an autocrat can launch a welfare-destroying war when his net benefit exceeds the total cost of war. Contrarily, the net benefit of the same war to an individual in a liberal democracy can be negative so that he would not choose to go to war. This disincentive to war is increased between liberal democracies through their establishment of linkages, political and economic, that further raise the costs of war between them. Therefore, liberal democracies are less likely to go war, especially against each other. Coleman further distinguishes between offensive and defensive wars and finds that liberal democracies are less likely to fight defensive wars that may have already begun due to excessive discounting of future costs.\n\nThere are several logically distinguishable classes of criticism. Note that they usually apply to no wars or few MIDs between democracies, not to little systematic violence in established democracies. (But see List of wars between democracies.)\n\nOne study has argued that there have been as many wars between democracies as one would expect between any other couple of states. However, its authors include wars between young and dubious democracies, and very small wars.\n\nOthers , , state that, although there may be some evidence for democratic peace, the data sample or the time span may be too small to assess any definitive conclusions. For example, Gowa finds evidence for democratic peace to be insignificant before 1939, because of the too small number of democracies, and offers an alternate explanation for the following period (see the section on Realist Explanations). Gowa's use of statistics has been criticized, with several other studies and reviews finding different or opposing results , . However, this can be seen as the longest-lasting criticism to the theory; as noted earlier, also some supporters agree that the statistical sample for assessing its validity is limited or scarce, at least if only full-scale wars are considered.\n\nAccording to one study, which uses a rather restrictive definition of democracy and war, there were no wars between jointly democratic couples of states in the period from 1816 to 1992. Assuming a purely random distribution of wars between states, regardless of their democratic character, the predicted number of conflicts between democracies would be around ten. So, Ray argues that the evidence is statistically significant, but that it is still conceivable that, in the future, even a small number of inter-democratic wars would cancel out such evidence.\n\nDouglas M. Gibler and Andrew Owsiak in their study argued peace almost always comes before democracy and that states do not develop democracy until all border disputes have been settled. These studies indicate that there is strong evidence that peace causes democracy but little evidence that democracy causes peace. Azar Gat (2017) argues that it is not democracy in itself that leads to peace but other aspects of modernization, such as economic prosperity and lower population growth.\n\nThe hypothesis that peace causes democracy is supported by psychological and cultural theories. Christian Welzel's human empowerment theory posits that existential security leads to emancipative cultural values and support for a democratic political organization. This is in agreement with theories based on evolutionary psychology.\n\nSeveral studies fail to confirm that democracies are less likely to wage war than autocracies if wars against non-democracies are included.\n\nSome authors criticize the definition of democracy by arguing that states continually reinterpret other states' regime types as a consequence of their own objective interests and motives, such as economic and security concerns . For example, one study reports that Germany was considered a democratic state by Western opinion leaders at the end of the 19th century; yet in the years preceding World War I, when its relations with the United States, France and Britain started deteriorating, Germany was gradually reinterpreted as an autocratic state, in absence of any actual regime change. Shimmin moves a similar criticism regarding the western perception of Milosevic's Serbia between 1989 and 1999. Rummel replies to this criticism by stating that, in general, studies on democratic peace do not focus on other countries' perceptions of democracy; and in the specific case of Serbia, by arguing that the limited credit accorded by western democracies to Milosevic in the early '90s did not amount to a recognition of democracy, but only to the perception that possible alternative leaders could be even worse.\n\nSome democratic peace researchers have been criticized for \"post hoc\" reclassifying some specific conflicts as non-wars or political systems as non-democracies without checking and correcting the whole data set used similarly. Supporters and opponents of the democratic peace agree that this is bad use of statistics, even if a plausible case can be made for the correction (Bremer 1992), (Gleditsch 1995), (Gowa 1999). A military affairs columnist of the newspaper \"Asia Times\" has summarized the above criticism in a journalist's fashion describing the theory as subject to the no true Scotsman problem: exceptions are explained away as not being between \"real\" democracies or \"real\" wars.\n\nSome democratic peace researchers require that the executive result from a substantively contested election. This may be a restrictive definition: For example, the National Archives of the United States notes that \"For all intents and purposes, George Washington was unopposed for election as President, both in 1789 and 1792\". (Under the original provisions for the Electoral College, there was no distinction between votes for President and Vice-President: each elector was required to vote for two distinct candidates, with the runner-up to be Vice-President. Every elector cast one of his votes for Washington, John Adams received a majority of the other votes; there were several other candidates: so the election for Vice President was contested.)\n\nSpiro (1994) made several other criticisms of the statistical methods used. Russett (1995) and a series of papers described by Ray (2003) responded to this, for example with different methodology.\n\nSometimes the datasets used have also been criticized. For example, some authors have criticized the Correlates of War data for not including civilian deaths in the battle deaths count, especially in civil wars . Weeks and Cohen (2006) argue that most fishing disputes, which include no deaths and generally very limited threats of violence, should be excluded even from the list of military disputes. Gleditsch (2004) made several criticisms to the Correlates of War data set, and produced a revised set of data. Maoz and Russett (1993) made several criticisms to the Polity I and II data sets, which have mostly been addressed in later versions. These criticisms are generally considered minor issues.\n\nThe most comprehensive critique points out that \"democracy\" is rarely defined, never refers to substantive democracy, is unclear about causation, has been refuted in more than 100 studies, fails to account for some 200 deviant cases, and has been promoted ideologically to justify one country seeking to expand democracy abroad (Haas 2014). Most studies treat the complex concept of \"democracy\" is a bivariate variable rather than attempting to dimensionalize the concept. Studies also fail to take into account the fact that there are dozens of types of democracy, so the results are meaningless unless articulated to a particular type of democracy or claimed to be true for all types, such as consociational or economic democracy, with disparate datasets.\n\nThe peacefulness may have various limitations and qualifiers and may not actually mean very much in the real world.\n\nDemocratic peace researchers do in general not count as wars conflicts which do not kill a thousand on the battlefield; thus they exclude for example the bloodless Cod Wars. However, as noted earlier, research has also found a peacefulness between democracies when looking at lesser conflicts.\n\nDemocracies were involved in more colonial and imperialistic wars than other states during the 1816–1945 period. On the other hand, this relation disappears if controlling for factors like power and number of colonies. Liberal democracies have less of these wars than other states after 1945. This might be related to changes in the perception of non-European peoples, as embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Ravlo & Glieditsch 2000).\n\nRelated to this is the human rights violations committed against native people, sometimes by liberal democracies. One response is that many of the worst crimes were committed by nondemocracies, like in the European colonies before the nineteenth century, in King Leopold II of Belgium's privately owned Congo Free State, and in Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union. The United Kingdom abolished slavery in British territory in 1833, immediately after the Reform Act 1832 had significantly enlarged the franchise. (Of course, the abolition of the slave trade had been enacted in 1807; and many DPT supporters would deny that the UK was a liberal democracy in 1833 when examining interstate wars.)\n\nHermann and Kegley (1995) argue that interventions between democracies are more likely to happen than projected by an expected model. They further argue (1996) that democracies are more likely to intervene in other liberal states than against countries that are non-democracies. Finally, they argue that these interventions between democracies have been increasing over time and that the world can expect more of these interventions in the future. The methodology used has been criticized and more recent studies have found opposing results (Gleditsch, Christiansen & Hegre 2004).\n\nRummel argues that the continuing increase in democracy worldwide will soon lead to an end to wars and democide, possibly around or even before the middle of this century. The fall of Communism and the increase in the number of democratic states were accompanied by a sudden and dramatic decline in total warfare, interstate wars, ethnic wars, revolutionary wars, and the number of refugees and displaced persons. One report claims that the two main causes of this decline in warfare are the end of the Cold War itself and decolonization; but also claims that the three Kantian factors have contributed materially.\n\nEconomic historians Joel Mokyr and Hans-Joachim Voth argue that democratic states may have been more vulnerable to conquest because the rulers in those states were too heavily constrained. Absolutist rulers in other states could however operate more effectively.\n\nDemocratic peace theory is a well established research field with more than a hundred authors having published articles about it. Several peer-reviewed studies mention in their introduction that most researchers accept the theory as an empirical fact.\n\nImre Lakatos suggested that what he called a \"progressive research program\" is better than a \"degenerative\" one when it can explain the same phenomena as the \"degenerative\" one, but is also characterized by growth of its research field and the discovery of important novel facts. In contrast, the supporters of the \"degenerative\" program do not make important new empirical discoveries, but instead mostly apply adjustments to their theory in order to defend it from competitors. Some researchers argue that democratic peace theory is now the \"progressive\" program in international relations. According to these authors, the theory can explain the empirical phenomena previously explained by the earlier dominant research program, realism in international relations; in addition, the initial statement that democracies do not, or rarely, wage war on one another, has been followed by a rapidly growing literature on novel empirical regularities. , , .\n\nOther examples are several studies finding that democracies are more likely to ally with one another than with other states, forming alliances which are likely to last longer than alliances involving nondemocracies ; several studies including showing that democracies conduct diplomacy differently and in a more conciliatory way compared to nondemocracies; one study finding that democracies with proportional representation are in general more peaceful regardless of the nature of the other party involved in a relationship ; and another study reporting that proportional representation system and decentralized territorial autonomy is positively associated with lasting peace in postconflict societies .\n\nMany democracies become non-democratic by war, as being aggressed or as aggressor (quickly after a coup), sometimes the coup leader worked to provoke that war.\n\nSchmitt (1922) wrote on how to overrule a Constitution: \"Sovereign is he who decides on the exception.\"\n\nSchmitt (1927) again on the need for internal (and foreign) enemies because they are useful to persuade the people not to trust anyone more than the Leader: “As long as the state is a political entity this requirement for internal peace compels it in critical situations to decide also upon the domestic enemy. Every state provides, therefore, some kind of formula for the declaration of an internal enemy.” Whatever opposition will be pictured and intended as the actual foreign enemy's puppet.\n\nOne general criticism motivating research of different explanations is that actually the theory cannot claim that \"democracy causes peace\", because the evidence for democracies being, in general, more peaceful is very slight or non existent; it only can support the claim that \"\"joint\" democracy causes peace\". According to Rosato (2003), this casts doubts on whether democracy is actually the cause because, if so, a monadic effect would be expected.\n\nPerhaps the simplest explanation to such perceived anomaly (but not the one the Realist Rosato prefers, see the section on Realist explanations below) is that democracies are not peaceful to each other because they are democratic, but rather because they are \"similar\". This line of thought started with several independent observations of an \"Autocratic Peace\" effect, a reduced probability of war (obviously no author claims its absence) between states which are both non-democratic, or both highly so , , This has led to the hypothesis that democratic peace emerges as a particular case when analyzing a subset of states which are, in fact, similar . Or, that similarity in general does not solely affect the probability of war, but only coherence of strong political regimes such as full democracies and stark autocracies.\n\nAutocratic peace and the explanation based on political similarity is a relatively recent development, and opinions about its value are varied. Henderson (2002) builds a model considering political similarity, geographic distance and economic interdependence as its main variables, and concludes that democratic peace is a statistical artifact which disappears when the above variables are taken into account. Werner (2000) finds a conflict reducing effect from political similarity in general, but with democratic dyads being particularly peaceful, and noting some differences in behavior between democratic and autocratic dyads with respect to alliances and power evaluation. Beck, King and Zeng (2004) use neural networks to show two distinct low probability zones, corresponding to high democracy and high autocracy. Petersen (2004) uses a different statistical model and finds that autocratic peace is not statistically significant, and that the effect attributed to similarity is mostly driven by the pacifying effect of joint democracy. Ray (2005) similarly disputes the weight of the argument on logical grounds, claiming that statistical analysis on \"political similarity\" uses a main variable which is an extension of \"joint democracy\" by linguistic redefinition, and so it is expected that the war reducing effects are carried on in the new analysis. Bennett (2006) builds a direct statistical model based on a triadic classification of states into \"democratic\", \"autocratic\" and \"mixed\". He finds that autocratic dyads have a 35% reduced chance of going into any type of armed conflict with respect to a reference mixed dyad. Democratic dyads have a 55% reduced chance. This effect gets stronger when looking at more severe conflicts; for wars (more than 1000 battle deaths), he estimates democratic dyads to have an 82% lower risk than autocratic dyads. He concludes that autocratic peace exists, but democratic peace is clearly stronger. However, he finds no relevant pacifying effect of political similarity, except at the extremes of the scale.\n\nTo summarize a rather complex picture, there are no less than four possible stances on the value of this criticism:\n\nThe capitalist peace, or capitalist peace theory, posits that according to a given criteria for economic development (capitalism), developed economies have not engaged in war with each other, and rarely enter into low-level disputes. These theories have been proposed as an explanation for the democratic peace by accounting for both democracy and the peace among democratic nations. The exact nature of the causality depends upon both the proposed variable and the measure of the indicator for the concept used.\n\nA majority of researchers on the determinants of democracy agree that economic development is a primary factor which allows the formation of a stable and healthy democracy (Hegre, 2003; Weede, 2004). Thus, some researchers have argued that economic development also plays a factor in the establishment of peace.\n\nMousseau argues that a culture of contracting in advanced market-oriented economies may cause both democracy and peace (2000; 2002; 2003; 2005). These studies indicate that democracy, alone, is an unlikely cause of the democratic peace. A low level of market-oriented economic development may hinder development of liberal institutions and values. Hegre (2000) and Souva (2003) confirmed these expectations. Mousseau (2005) finds that democracy is a significant factor only when both democracies have levels of economic development well above the global median. In fact, the poorest 21% of the democracies studied, and the poorest 4–5% of current democracies, are significantly \"more\" likely than other kinds of countries to fight each other. Mousseau, Hegre & Oneal (2003) confirm that if at least one of the democracies involved has a very low level of economic development, democracy is ineffective in preventing war; however, they find that when also controlling for trade, 91% of all the democratic pairs had high enough development for the pacifying effect of democracy to be important during the 1885–1992 period and all in 1992. The difference in results of Mousseau (2005) and Mousseau, Hegre & Oneal (2003) may be due to sampling: Mousseau (2005) observed only neighboring states where poor countries actually can fight each other. In fact, fully 89% of militarized conflicts between less developed countries from 1920 and 2000 were among directly contiguous neighbors (Mousseau 2005:68–69). He argues that it is not likely that the results can be explained by trade: Because developed states have large economies, they do not have high levels of trade interdependence (2005:70 and footnote 5; Mousseau, Hegre & Oneal 2003:283). In fact, the correlation of developed democracy with trade interdependence is a scant 0.06 (Pearson's \"r\" – considered substantively no correlation by statisticians)(2005:77).\n\nBoth World Wars were fought between countries which can be considered economically developed. Mousseau argues that both Germany and Japan – like the USSR during the Cold War and Saudi Arabia today – had state-managed economies and thus lacked his market norms (Mousseau 2002–03:29). Hegre (2003) finds that democracy is correlated with civil peace only for developed countries, and for countries with high levels of literacy. Conversely, the risk of civil war decreases with development only for democratic countries.\n\nGartzke (2005) argues that economic freedom (a quite different concept from Mousseau's market norms) or financial dependence (2007) explains the developed democratic peace, and these countries may be weak on these dimensions too. Rummel (2005) criticizes Gartzke's methodology and argues that his results are invalid.\n\nSeveral studies find that democracy, more trade causing greater economic interdependence, and membership in more intergovernmental organizations reduce the risk of war. This is often called the Kantian peace theory since it is similar to Kant's earlier theory about a perpetual peace; it is often also called \"liberal peace\" theory, especially when one focuses on the effects of trade and democracy. (The theory that free trade can cause peace is quite old and referred to as Cobdenism.) Many researchers agree that these variables positively affect each other but each has a separate pacifying effect. For example, in countries exchanging a substantial amount of trade, economic interest groups may exist that oppose a reciprocal disruptive war, but in democracy such groups may have more power, and the political leaders be more likely to accept their requests. (Russett & Oneal 2001), , . Weede (2004) argues that the pacifying effect of free trade and economic interdependence may be more important than that of democracy, because the former affects peace both directly and indirectly, by producing economic development and ultimately, democracy. Weede also lists some other authors supporting this view. However, some recent studies find no effect from trade but only from democracy , .\n\nNone of the authors listed argues that free trade alone causes peace. Even so, the issue of whether free trade or democracy is more important in maintaining peace may have potentially significant practical consequences, for example on evaluating the effectiveness of applying economic sanctions and restrictions to autocratic countries.\n\nIt was Michael Doyle (1983, 1997) who reintroduced Kant's three articles into democratic peace theory. He argued that a pacific union of liberal states has been growing for the past two centuries. He denies that a pair of states will be peaceful simply because they are both liberal democracies; if that were enough, liberal states would not be aggressive towards weak non-liberal states (as the history of American relations with Mexico shows they are). Rather, liberal democracy is a necessary condition for international organization and hospitality (which are Kant's other two articles)—and all three are sufficient to produce peace. Other Kantians have not repeated Doyle's argument that all three in the triad must be present, instead stating that all three reduce the risk of war.\n\nImmanuel Wallerstein has argued that it is the global capitalist system that creates shared interests among the dominant parties, thus inhibiting potentially harmful belligerence.\n\nNegri and Hardt take a similar stance, arguing that the intertwined network of interests in the global capitalism leads to the decline of individual nation states, and the rise of a global \"Empire\" which has no outside, and no external enemies. As a result, they write, \"The era of imperialist, interimperialist, and anti-imperialist wars is over. (...) we have entered the era of minor and internal conflicts. Every imperial war is a civil war, a police action.\" (Hardt & Negri 2000).\n\nMany studies, as those discussed in , , , supporting the theory have controlled for many possible alternative causes of the peace. Examples of factors controlled for are geographic distance, geographic contiguity, power status, alliance ties, militarization, economic wealth and economic growth, power ratio, and political stability. These studies have often found very different results depending on methodology and included variables, which has caused criticism. It should be noted that DPT does not state democracy is the only thing affecting the risk of military conflict. Many of the mentioned studies have found that other factors are also important. However, a common thread in most results is an emphasis on the relationship between democracy and peace. \n\nSeveral studies have also controlled for the possibility of reverse causality from peace to democracy. For example, one study supports the theory of simultaneous causation, finding that dyads involved in wars are likely to experience a decrease in joint democracy, which in turn increases the probability of further war. So they argue that disputes between democratizing or democratic states should be resolved externally at a very early stage, in order to stabilize the system. Another study finds that peace does not spread democracy, but spreading democracy is likely to spread peace. A different kind of reverse causation lies in the suggestion that impending war could destroy or decrease democracy, because the preparation for war might include political restrictions, which may be the cause for the findings of democratic peace. However, this hypothesis has been statistically tested in a study whose authors find, depending on the definition of the pre-war period, no such effect or a very slight one. So, they find this explanation unlikely. Note also that this explanation would predict a monadic effect, although weaker than the dyadic one.\n\nWeart (1998) argues that the peacefulness appears and disappears rapidly when democracy appears and disappears. This in his view makes it unlikely that variables that change more slowly are the explanation. Weart, however, has been criticized for not offering any quantitative analysis supporting his claims (Ray, 2000).\n\nWars tend very strongly to be between neighboring states. Gleditsch (1995) showed that the average distance between democracies is about 8000 miles, the same as the average distance between all states. He believes that the effect of distance in preventing war, modified by the democratic peace, explains the incidence of war as fully as it can be explained.\n\nSupporters of realism in international relations in general argue that not democracy or its absence, but considerations and evaluations of power, cause peace or war. Specifically, many realist critics claim that the effect ascribed to democratic, or liberal, peace, is in fact due to alliance ties between democratic states which in turn are caused, one way or another, by realist factors.\n\nFor example, Farber and Gowa (1995) find evidence for peace between democracies to be statistically significant only in the period from 1945 on, and consider such peace an artifact of the Cold War, when the threat from the communist states forced democracies to ally with one another. Mearsheimer (1990) offers a similar analysis of the Anglo-American peace before 1945, caused by the German threat. Spiro (1994) finds several instances of wars between democracies, arguing that evidence in favor of the theory might be not so vast as other authors report, and claims that the remaining evidence consists of peace between allied states with shared objectives. He acknowledges that democratic states might have a somewhat greater tendency to ally with one another, and regards this as the only real effect of democratic peace. Rosato (2003) argues that most of the significant evidence for democratic peace has been observed after World War II; and that it has happened within a broad alliance, which can be identified with NATO and its satellite nations, imposed and maintained by American dominance (see Pax Americana). One of the main points in Rosato's argument is that, although never engaged in open war with another liberal democracy during the Cold War, the United States intervened openly or covertly in the political affairs of democratic states several times, for example in the Chilean coup of 1973, the 1953 coup in Iran and 1954 coup in Guatemala; in Rosato's view, these interventions show the United States' determination to maintain an \"imperial peace\".\n\nThe most direct counter arguments to such criticisms have been studies finding peace between democracies to be significant even when controlling for \"common interests\" as reflected in alliance ties , . Regarding specific issues, Ray (1998) objects that explanations based on the Cold War should predict that the Communist bloc would be at peace within itself also, but exceptions include the Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan, the Cambodian-Vietnamese War, and the Sino-Vietnamese War. Ray also argues that the external threat did not prevent conflicts in the Western bloc when at least one of the involved states was a nondemocracy, such as the Turkish Invasion of Cyprus (against Greek Junta supported Cypriot Greeks), the Falklands War, and the Football War. Also, one study notes that the explanation \"goes increasingly stale as the post-Cold War world accumulates an increasing number of peaceful dyad-years between democracies\". Rosato's argument about American dominance has also been criticized for not giving supporting statistical evidence (Slantchev, Alexandrova & Gartzke 2005).\n\nSome realist authors also criticize in detail the explanations first by supporters of democratic peace, pointing to supposed inconsistencies or weaknesses.\n\nRosato (2003) criticizes most explanations to how democracy might cause peace. Arguments based on normative constraints, he argues, are not consistent with the fact that democracies do go to war no less than other states, thus violating norms preventing war; for the same reason he refutes arguments based on the importance of public opinion. Regarding explanations based on greater accountability of leaders, he finds that historically autocratic leaders have been removed or punished more often than democratic leaders when they get involved in costly wars. Finally, he also criticizes the arguments that democracies treat each other with trust and respect even during crises; and that democracy might be slow to mobilize its composite and diverse groups and opinions, hindering the start of a war, drawing support from other authors. Another realist, Layne (1994), analyzes the crises and brinkmanship that took place between non-allied democratic great powers, during the relatively brief period when such existed. He finds no evidence either of institutional or cultural constraints against war; indeed, there was popular sentiment in favor of war on both sides. Instead, in all cases, one side concluded that it could not afford to risk that war at that time, and made the necessary concessions.\n\nRosato's objections have been criticized for claimed logical and methodological errors, and for being contradicted by existing statistical research (Kinsella 2005). Russett (1995) replies to Layne by re-examining some of the crises studied in his article, and reaching different conclusions; Russett argues that perceptions of democracy prevented escalation, or played a major role in doing so. Also, a recent study (Gelpi & Griesdorf 2001) finds that, while in general the outcome of international disputes is highly influenced by the contenders' relative military strength, this is not true if both contenders are democratic states; in this case the authors find the outcome of the crisis to be independent of the military capabilities of contenders, which is contrary to realist expectations. Finally, both the realist criticisms here described ignore new possible explanations, like the game-theoretic one discussed below.\n\nA different kind of realist criticism (see for a discussion) stresses the role of nuclear weapons in maintaining peace. In realist terms, this means that, in the case of disputes between nuclear powers, respective evaluation of power might be irrelevant because of Mutual assured destruction preventing both sides from foreseeing what could be reasonably called a \"victory\". The 1999 Kargil War between India and Pakistan has been cited as a counterexample to this argument (Page Fortna, 2004).\n\nSome supporters of the democratic peace do not deny that realist factors are also important (Russett 1995). Research supporting the theory has also shown that factors such as alliance ties and major power status influence interstate conflict behavior .\n\nThe democratic peace theory has been extremely divisive among political scientists. It is rooted in the idealist and classical liberalist traditions and is opposed to the previously dominant theory of realism. However, democratic peace theory has come to be more widely accepted and has in some democracies effected policy change. \n\nIn the United States, presidents from both major parties have expressed support for the theory. In his 1994 State of the Union address, then-President Bill Clinton, a member of the Democratic Party, said: \"Ultimately, the best strategy to ensure our security and to build a durable peace is to support the advance of democracy elsewhere. Democracies don't attack each other.\" In a 2004 press conference, then-President George W. Bush, a member of the Republican Party, said: \"And the reason why I'm so strong on democracy is democracies don't go to war with each other. And the reason why is the people of most societies don't like war, and they understand what war means... I've got great faith in democracies to promote peace. And that's why I'm such a strong believer that the way forward in the Middle East, the broader Middle East, is to promote democracy.\"\n\nIn a 1999 speech, Chris Patten, the then-European Commissioner for External Relations, said: \"Inevitable because the EU was formed partly to protect liberal values, so it is hardly surprising that we should think it appropriate to speak out. But it is also sensible for strategic reasons. Free societies tend not to fight one another or to be bad neighbours.\" The \"A Secure Europe in a Better World, European Security Strategy\" states: \"The best protection for our security is a world of well-governed democratic states.\" Tony Blair has also claimed the theory is correct.\n\nSome fear that the democratic peace theory may be used to justify wars against nondemocracies in order to bring lasting peace, in a \"democratic crusade\" (Chan 1997, p. 59). Woodrow Wilson in 1917 asked Congress to declare war against Imperial Germany, citing Germany's sinking of American ships due to unrestricted submarine warfare and the Zimmermann telegram, but also stating that \"A steadfast concert for peace can never be maintained except by a partnership of democratic nations\" and \"The world must be made safe for democracy.\" R. J. Rummel is a notable proponent of war for the purpose of spreading democracy, based on this theory.\n\nSome point out that the democratic peace theory has been used to justify the 2003 Iraq War, others argue that this justification was used only after the war had already started (Russett 2005). Furthermore, Weede (2004) has argued that the justification is extremely weak, because forcibly democratizing a country completely surrounded by non-democracies, most of which are full autocracies, as Iraq was, is at least as likely to increase the risk of war as it is to decrease it (some studies show that dyads formed by one democracy and one autocracy are the most warlike, and several find that the risk of war is greatly increased in democratizing countries surrounded by nondemocracies). According to Weede, if the United States and its allies wanted to adopt a rationale strategy of forced democratization based on democratic peace, which he still does not recommend, it would be best to start intervening in countries which border with at least one or two stable democracies, and expand gradually. Also, research shows that attempts to create democracies by using external force has often failed. Gleditsch, Christiansen and Hegre (2004) argue that forced democratization by interventionism may initially have partial success, but often create an unstable democratizing country, which can have dangerous consequences in the long run. Those attempts which had a permanent and stable success, like democratization in Austria, West Germany and Japan after World War II, mostly involved countries which had an advanced economic and social structure already, and implied a drastic change of the whole political culture. Supporting internal democratic movements and using diplomacy may be far more successful and less costly. Thus, the theory and related research, if they were correctly understood, may actually be an argument against a democratic crusade (Weart 1998), (Owen 2005), (Russett 2005).\n\nMichael Haas has written perhaps the most trenchant critique of a hidden normative agenda (Haas 1997). Among the points raised: Due to sampling manipulation, the research creates the impression that democracies can justifiably fight nondemocracies, snuff out budding democracies, or even impose democracy. And due to sloppy definitions, there is no concern that democracies continue undemocratic practices yet remain in the sample as if pristine democracies.\n\nThis criticism is confirmed by David Keen(2006) who finds that almost all historical attempts to impose democracy by violent means have failed.\n\nAccording to Azar Gat's \"War in Human Civilization\", there are several related and independent factors that contribute to democratic societies being more peaceful than other forms of governments:\n\nThere is significant debate over whether the lack of any major European general wars since 1945, is due to cooperation and integration of liberal-democratic European states themselves (as in the European Union or Franco-German cooperation), an enforced peace due to intervention of the Soviet Union and the United States until 1989 and the United States alone thereafter, or a combination of both.\n\nThe debate over this theory was thrust in the public eye, when the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the European Union, for its role in creating peace in Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1588860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1588860", "title": "Die Freien", "text": "Die Freien\n\nDie Freien (The Free) was a 19th-century circle of political philosophers in Germany, gathering for informal discussion over a period of a few years.\n\n\"Die Freien\" was the name given to the Berlin wing of the Young Hegelians, headed by Bruno Bauer.\n\nThe group was formed at the University of Berlin. Its leader, Bruno Bauer was a student who had attended Hegel’s lectures and was then asked to defend the position of the Old Hegelians against the claims of David Strauss’s \"Life of Jesus\". After reviewing the book however, Bauer was converted and became even more radical than Strauss, becoming an atheist and arguing that Christianity was not only historically baseless, but was also irrational and a barrier to progress.\n\nLater in his life he would disassociate himself from the group.\n\nAttendees included Max Stirner, Bruno Bauer, Arnold Ruge, Friedrich Engels, and Karl Marx, among others. Although not much is known about the group, with John Henry Mackay's biography of Max Stirner appearing to be the most authoritative source, involvement appears to have been a formative period for Marx and Engels (who wrote \"The Manifesto of the Communist Party\", \"Wage-Labour and Capital\" and \"The German Ideology\" shortly after involvement) and Stirner (who wrote \"The Ego And Its Own\" around the same time). Consequently, the overall influence of the group to modern political thought can be considered monumental. As a cartoon by Engels shows, their small meetings were also attended by a \"secret policeman\", reporting on their activities to the authorities. The members of \"Die Freien\" held widely diverging views, and met for the purpose of debate; they did not represent a unified political or ideological outlook, though most of them have subsequently been seen as Young Hegelians.\n\nThey usually met at Hippel's Wine Bar in central Berlin. According to John Henry Mackay's biography of Max Stirner, they were well known for using foul language, at one point resulting in Arnold Ruge chastising them before storming out. Reportedly there were many women involved with the group, although information only survives for Stirner's second wife, Marie Dähnhardt. Moreover, after the owner stopped lending them money to drink, they resorted to jokingly begging on the street. However, Mackay claims that they drank little and drunkenness was uncommon.\n\nThe Young Hegelians, or the Left Hegelians, were a group of followers of Hegelian philosophy. They differed from the Old Hegelians, or the Right Hegelians, in that the latter were orthodox followers who strived to keep Hegel’s philosophy intact. The Young Hegelians, in contrast, while adopting the main elements of the philosophy, such as the dialectic approach, were highly critical of others. Marx for instance would not accept that the state was the seat of universality and rationality, i.e. that it was inherently rational, and made it his goal to prove that the difference between civil society, which Hegel held to be the sphere where individual interest is pursued in conflict with the interests of others, and the state, where such conflicts are transcended, was in fact misplaced, the goal of the proletariat being in fact to abolish such differences.\n\nOther Young Hegelians had other qualms about Hegel’s Philosophy: David Strauss did not accept Hegel’s claims of Christian historicity renouncing any historical basis to Christianity in favour of its demythization, claiming that the stories found in the Bible should be understood as myths \"constructed not by individuals but by the earliest Christian communities in response to the teaching of Christ and the Messianic tradition which they had inherited from the Old Testament.\".\n"}
{"id": "212485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212485", "title": "Earth religion", "text": "Earth religion\n\nEarth religion is a term used mostly in the context of neopaganism.\n\nEarth-centered religion or nature worship is a system of religion based on the veneration of natural phenomena. It covers any religion that worships the earth, nature, or fertility deity, such as the various forms of goddess worship or matriarchal religion. Some find a connection between earth-worship and the Gaia hypothesis. Earth religions are also formulated to allow one to utilize the knowledge of preserving the earth.\n\nAccording to Marija Gimbutas, pre-Indo-European societies lived in small-scale, family-based communities that practiced matrilineal succession and goddess-centered religion where creation comes from the woman. She is the Divine Mother who can give life and take it away. In Irish mythology she is Danu, in Slavic mythology she is Mat Zemlya, and in other cultures she is Pachamama, Ninsun, Terra Mater, Nüwa, Matres or Shakti.\n\nIn the late 1800s, James Weir wrote an article describing the beginnings and aspects of early religious feeling. According to Boyer, early man was forced to locate food and shelter in order to survive, while constantly being directed by his instincts and senses. Because man's existence depended on nature, men began to form their religion and beliefs on and around nature itself. It is evident that man's first religion would have had to develop from the material world, he argues, because man relied heavily on his senses and what he could see, touch, and feel. In this sense, the worship of nature formed, allowing man to further depend on nature for survival.\n\nNeopagans have tried to make claims that religion started in ways that correspond to earth religion. In one of their published works, \"The Urantia Book\", another reason for this worship of nature came from a fear of the world around primitive man. His mind lacked the complex function of processing and sifting through complex ideas. As a result, man worshiped the very entity that surrounded him every day. That entity was nature. Man experienced the different natural phenomena around him, such as storms, vast deserts, and immense mountains. Among the very first parts of nature to be worshiped were rocks and hills, plants and trees, animals, the elements, heavenly bodies, and even man himself. As primitive man worked his way through nature worship, he eventually moved on to incorporate spirits into his worship. Although these claims may have some merit, they are nonetheless presented from a biased position that cannot be authenticated by traditional and reliable sources. Therefore, their claims can not be relied upon.\n\nThe origins of religion can be looked at through the lens of the function and processing of the human mind. Pascal Boyer suggests that, for the longest period of time, the brain was thought of as a simple organ of the body. However, he claims that the more information collected about the brain indicates that the brain is indeed not a \"blank slate.\" Humans do not just learn any information from the environment and surroundings around them. They have acquired sophisticated cognitive equipment that prepares them to analyze information in their culture and determine which information is relevant and how to apply it. Boyer states that \"having a normal human brain does not imply that you have religion. All it implies is that people can acquire it, which is very different.\" He suggests that religions started for the reasons of providing answers to humans, giving comfort, providing social order to society, and satisfying the need of the illusion-prone nature of the human mind. Ultimately, religion came into existence because of our need to answer questions and hold together our societal order.\n\nAn additional idea on the origins of religion comes not from man's cognitive development, but from the ape. Barbara J. King argues that human beings have an emotional connection with those around them, and that that desire for a connection came from their evolution from apes. The closest relative to the human species is the African ape. At birth, the ape begins negotiating with its mother about what it wants and needs in order to survive. The world the ape is born into is saturated with close family and friends. Because of this, emotions and relationships play a huge role in the ape's life. Its reactions and responses to one another are rooted and grounded in a sense of belongingness, which is derived from its dependence on the ape's mother and family. Belongingness is defined as \"mattering to someone who matters to you ... getting positive feelings from our relationships.\" This sense and desire for belongingness, which started in apes, only grew as the hominid (a human ancestor) diverged from the lineage of the ape, which occurred roughly six to seven million years ago.\n\nAs severe changes in the environment, physical evolutions in the human body (especially in the development of the human brain), and changes in social actions occurred, humans went beyond trying to simply form bonds and relationships of empathy with others. As their culture and society became more complex, they began using practices and various symbols to make sense of the natural and spiritual world around them. Instead of simply trying to find belongingness and empathy from the relationships with others, humans created and evolved God and spirits in order to fulfil that need and exploration. King argued that \"an earthly need for belonging led to human religious imagination and thus to the otherworldly realm of relating to God, gods, and spirits.\"\n\nThe term \"earth religion\" encompasses any religion that worships the earth, nature or fertility gods or goddesses. There is an array of groups and beliefs that fall under earth religion, such as paganism, which is a polytheistic, nature based religion; animism, which is the worldview that all living entities (plants, animals, and humans) possess a spirit; Wicca, who hold the concept of an earth mother goddess as well as practice ritual magic; and druidism, which equates divinity with the natural world.\n\nAnother perspective of earth religion to consider is pantheism, which takes a varied approach to the importance and purpose of the earth, and man's relationship with the planet. Several of their core statements deal with the connectivity humans share with the planet, declaring that \"all matter, energy, and life are an interconnected unity of which we are an inseparable part\" and \"we are an integral part of Nature, which we should cherish, revere and preserve in all its magnificent beauty and diversity. We should strive to live in harmony with Nature locally and globally\".\n\nThe earth also plays a vital role to many Voltaic peoples, many of whom \"consider the Earth to be Heaven’s wife\", such as the Konkomba of northern Ghana, whose economic, social and religious life is heavily influenced by the earth. It is also important to consider various Native American religions, such as Peyote Religion, Longhouse Religion, and Earth Lodge Religion.\n\nApril 22 was established as International Mother Earth Day by the United Nations in 2009, but many cultures around the world have been celebrating the Earth for thousands of years. Winter solstice and Summer solstice are celebrated with holidays like Yule and Dongzhi in the winter and Tiregān and Kupala in the summer.\n\nAnimism is practiced among the Bantu peoples of Sub-Saharan Africa. The Dahomey mythology has deities like Nana Buluku, Gleti, Mawu, Asase Yaa, Naa Nyonmo and Xevioso.\n\nIn Baltic mythology, the sun is a female deity, Saule, a mother or a bride, and Mēness is the moon, father or husband, their children being the stars. In Slavic mythology Mokosh and Mat Zemlya together with Perun head up the pantheon. Celebrations and rituals are centered on nature and harvest seasons. Dragobete is a traditional Romanian spring holiday that celebrates \"the day when the birds are betrothed.\"\n\nIn Hindu philosophy, the yoni is the creative power of nature and the origin of life. In Shaktism, the yoni is celebrated and worshipped during the Ambubachi Mela, an annual fertility festival which celebrates the Earth's menstruation.\n\nAlthough the idea of earth religion has been around for thousands of years, it did not fully show up in popular culture until the early 1990s. \"The X-Files\" was one of the first nationally broadcast television programs to air witchcraft and Wicca (types of earth religion) content. On average, Wiccans - those who practice Wicca - were more or less pleased with the way the show had portrayed their ideals and beliefs. However, they still found it to be a little \"sensationalistic\". That same year, the movie \"The Craft\" was released - also depicting the art of Wicca. Unfortunately, this cinematic feature was not as happily accepted as \"The X-Files\" had been.\n\nA few years later, programs showcasing the aforementioned religious practices - such as \"Charmed\" and \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" - became widely popular. Although \"Charmed\" focused mostly on witchcraft, the magic they practiced very closely resembled Wicca. Meanwhile, \"Buffy\" was one of the first shows to actually cast a Wiccan character. However, since the shows focus was primarily on vampires, the Wiccan was depicted as having supernatural powers, rather than being in-tuned with the Earth.\n\nOther movies and shows throughout the last few decades have also been placed under the genre of Earth Religion. Among them are two of director Hayao Miyazaki's most well known films - \"Princess Mononoke\" and \"My Neighbor Totoro\". Both movies present human interaction with land, animal, and other nature spirits. Speakers for Earth Religion have said that these interactions suggest overtones of Earth Religion themes.\n\nSome popular Disney movies have also been viewed as Earth Religion films. Among them are \"The Lion King\" and \"Brother Bear\". Those who practice Earth Religion view \"The Lion King\" as an Earth Religion film mainly for the \"interconnectedness\" and \"Circle of Life\" it shows between the animals, plants, and life in general. When that link is broken, viewers see chaos and despair spread throughout the once bountiful land. Congruently, \"Brother Bear\" portrays interactions and consequences when humans disobey or go against the animal and Earth spirits.\n\nOther earth religion movies include \"The 13th Warrior\", \"The Deceivers (film)\", \"Sorceress (1982 film)\", \"Anchoress (film)\", \"Eye of the Devil\", \"Agora (film)\", and \"The Wicker Man (1973 film)\". These movies all contain various aspects of earth religion and nature worship in general.\n\nMany religions have negative stereotypes of earth religion and neo-paganism in general. A common critique of the worship of nature and resources of \"Mother Earth\" is that the rights of nature and ecocide movements are inhibitors of human progress and development. This argument is fueled by the fact that those people socialized into 'western' world views believe the earth itself is not a living being. Wesley Smith believes this is “anti-humanism with the potential to do real harm to the human family.” According to Smith, earth worshipers are hindering large-scale development, and they are viewed as inhibitors of advancement.\n\nA lot of criticism of earth religion comes from the negative actions of a few people who have been chastised for their actions. One such negative representative of earth religion is Aleister Crowley. He is believed to be \"too preoccupied with awakening magical powers\" instead of putting the well-being of others in his coven. Crowley allegedly looked up to \"Old George\" Pickingill, who was another worshipper of nature who was viewed negatively. Critics regarded Pickingill as a Satanist and \"England’s most notorious Witch\".\n\nCrowley himself was \"allegedly expelled from the Craft because he was a pervert.\" He became aroused by torture and pain, and enjoyed being \"punished\" by women. This dramatically damaged Crowley’s public image, because of his lifestyle and actions. Many people regarded all followers of earth religion as perverted Satanists.\n\nFollowers of earth religion have suffered major opprobrium over the years for allegedly being Satanists. Some religious adherents can be prone to viewing religions other than their religion as being wrong sometimes because they perceive those religions as characteristic of their concept of Satan worship. To wit, Witchcraft, a common practice of Wiccans, is sometimes misinterpreted as Satan worship by members of these groups, as well as less-informed persons who may not be specifically religious but who may reside within the sphere-of-influence of pagan-critical religious adherents. From the Wiccan perspective, however, earth religion and Wicca lie outside of the phenomenological world that encompasses Satanism. An all-evil being does not exist within the religious perspective of western earth religions. Devotees worship and celebrate earth resources and earth-centric deities. Satanism and Wicca \"have entirely different beliefs about deity, different rules for ethical behavior, different expectations from their membership, different views of the universe, different seasonal days of celebration, etc.\"\n\nNeo-pagans, or earth religion followers, often claim to be unaffiliated with Satanism. Neo-pagans, Wiccans, and earth religion believers do not acknowledge the existence of a deity that conforms to the common Semitic sect religious concept of Satan. Satanism stems from Christianity, while earth religion stems from older religious concepts.\n\nSome earth religion adherents take issue with the religious harassment that is inherent in the social pressure that necessitates their having to distance themselves from the often non-uniform, Semitic sect religious concept of Satan worship. Having to define themselves as \"other\" from a religious concept that is not within their worldview implies a certain degree of outsider-facilitated, informal, but functional religious restriction that is based solely on the metaphysical and mythological religious beliefs of those outsiders. This is problematic because outsider initiated comparisons to Satanism with the intent of condemnation, even when easily refuted, can have the effect of social pressure on earth religion adherents to conform to outsider perception of acceptable customs, beliefs, and modes of religious behavior.\n\nTo illustrate, a problem could arise with the \"other\" than Satanism argument if an earth centered belief system adopted a holiday that a critic considered to be similar or identical to a holiday that Satanists celebrate. Satanists have historically been prone to adopting holidays that have origins in various pagan traditions, ostensibly because these traditional holidays are amongst the last known vestiges of traditional pre-Semitic religious practice in the west. Satanists are, perhaps irrationally, prone to interpreting non-Semitic holidays as anti-Christian and therefore as implicitly representative of their worldview. This is not surprising given the fact that this is, in fact, how many Christians interpret holidays such as Samhain. In spite of any flawed perceptions or rationale held by any other group, earth centered religion adherents do not recognize misinterpretation of their customs made by outside religious adherents or critics inclusive of Satan worshippers.\n\nOrganized Satan worship, as defined by and anchored in the Semitic worldview, is characterized by a relatively disorganized and often disparate series of movements and groups that mostly emerged in the mid-20th century. Thus, their adopted customs have varied, continue to vary, and therefore this moving target of beliefs and customs can not be justifiably nor continuously accounted for by earth centered religious adherents. Once a Satanist group adopts a holiday, social stigma may unjustifiably taint the holiday and anyone who observes it without discrimination as to whence and for what purpose it was originally celebrated. Given these facts, many earth centered religion devotees find comparisons to Satanism intrinsically oppressive in nature. This logic transfers to any and all religious customs to include prayer, magic, ceremony, and any unintentional similarity in deity characteristics (an example is the horned traditional entity Pan having similar physical characteristics to common horned depictions of Satan).\n\nThe issue is further complicated by the theory that the intra and extra-biblical mythology of Satan that is present throughout various Semitic sects may have originally evolved to figuratively demonize the heathen religions of other groups. Thus, the concept of Satan, or \"the adversary\", would have been representative of all non-Semitic religions and, by extension, the people who believed in them. Although, at times, the concept of the \"other\" as demonic has also been used to characterize competing Semitic sects. Amongst other purposes, such belief would have been extraordinarily useful during the psychological and physical process of cleansing Europe of traditional tribal beliefs in favor of Christianity. This possibility would account for the historical tendency of Christian authorities, for example, to deem most pagan customs carried out in the pagan religious context as demonic. By any modern standard, such current beliefs would violate western concepts of religious tolerance as well as be inimical to the preservation of what remains of the culture of long-persecuted religious groups.\n\nBecause of the vast diversity of religions that fall under the title of \"earth religion\" there is no consensus of beliefs. However, the ethical beliefs of most religions overlap. The most well-known ethical code is the Wiccan Rede. Many of those who practice an earth religion choose to be environmentally active. Some perform activities such as recycling or composting while others feel it to be more productive to try and support the earth spiritually. These six beliefs about ethics seem to be universal.\n\n\"An [if] it harm none, do what ye will.\" Commonly worded in modern English as \"if it doesn't harm anyone, do what you want.\" This maxim was first printed in 1964, after being spoken by the priestess Doreen Valiente in the mid-20th century, and governs most ethical belief of Wiccans and some Pagans. There is no consensus of beliefs but this rede provides a starting point for most people's interpretation of what is ethical. The rede clearly states to do no harm but what constitutes as harm and what level of self-interest is acceptable is negotiable. Many Wiccans reverse the phrase into \"Do what ye will an it harm none,\" meaning \"Do what you want if it doesn't harm anyone.\" The difference may not seem significant but it is. The first implies that it is good to do no harm but does not say that it is necessarily unethical to do so, the second implies that all forms of harm are unethical. The second phrase is nearly impossible to follow. This shift occurred when trying to better adapt the phrase into modern English as well as to stress the \"harmlessness\" of Wiccans. The true nature of the rede simply implies that there is personal responsibility for your actions. You may do as you wish but there is a karma reaction from every action. Even though this is the most well-known rede of practice, it does not mean that those that choose not to follow it are unethical. There are many other laws of practice that other groups follow.\n\nThe Threefold Law is the belief that for all actions there is always a cause and effect. For every action taken either the good or ill intention will be returned to the action taker threefold. This is why the Wiccan Rede is typically followed because of fear of the threefold return from that harmful action.\n\nThis term is what Emma Restall Orr calls reverence for the earth in her book \"Living with Honour: A Pagan Ethics\". She separates the term into three sections: courage, generosity and loyalty, or honesty, respect and responsibility. There is no evil force in Nature. Nothing exists beyond the natural, therefore it is up to the individual to choose to be ethical not because of divine judgment. All beings are connected by the earth and so all should be treated fairly. There is a responsibility toward the environment and a harmony should be found with nature.\n\nThe following was written by the Church of All Worlds in 1988 and was affirmed by the Pagan Ecumenical Conferences of Ancient Ways (California, May 27–30) and Pagan Spirit Gathering (Wisconsin, June 17). The Pagan Community Council of Ohio then presented it to the Northeast Council of W.I.C.C.A.\n\n\"We, the undersigned, as adherents of Pagan and Old and Neo-Pagan Earth Religions, including Wicca or Witchcraft, practice a variety of positive, life affirming faiths that are dedicated to healing, both of ourselves and of the Earth. As such, we do not advocate or condone any acts that victimize others, including those proscribed by law. As one of our most widely accepted precepts is the Wiccan Rede's injunction to \"harm none,\" we absolutely condemn the practices of child abuse, sexual abuse and any other form of abuse that does harm to the bodies, minds or spirits of the victims of such abuses. We recognize and revere the divinity of Nature in our Mother the Earth, and we conduct our rites of worship in a manner that is ethical, compassionate and constitutionally protected. We neither acknowledge or worship the Christian devil, \"Satan,\" who is not in our Pagan pantheons. We will not tolerate slander or libel against our Temples, clergy or Temple Assemblers and we are prepared to defend our civil rights with such legal action as we deem necessary and appropriate.\"\n"}
{"id": "380782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380782", "title": "Eckankar", "text": "Eckankar\n\nEckankar is a religious movement founded by Paul Twitchell in 1965. It is a non-profit religious group with members in over one hundred countries. The spiritual home is the Temple of Eck in Chanhassen, Minnesota. Eckankar is not affiliated with any other religious group.\n\nThe movement teaches simple spiritual exercises, such as singing \"Hu\", called \"a love song to God\", to experience the Light and Sound of God and recognize the presence of the Holy Spirit.\n\nThe word Eckankar is a transliteration of the phrase Ik Onkar, which is used in Sikhism. According to the Eckankar glossary, the term \"Eckankar\" means \"Co-Worker with God\". ECK is another word for the Holy Spirit, also known as the Audible Life Current, Life Force, or Light and Sound of God.\n\nEckankar's headquarters were originally in Las Vegas, Nevada. Under the leadership of Darwin Gross, the organization was moved to Menlo Park, California in 1975. In 1986, Harold Klemp moved the base of operations to Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\nThe leader of Eckankar is known as 'the Living ECK Master'. Some leaders, Twitchell and Klemp, for example, also hold the title \"Mahanta\" which refers to the inner aspect of the teacher. The leader functions as both an inner and outer guide for each member's individual spiritual progress. Twitchell (spiritual name: Peddar Zaskq) was the movement's spiritual leader until his death in late 1971. Gross (spiritual name: Dap Ren) succeeded him until October 22, 1981, when Klemp (spiritual name: Wah Z, pronounced Wah Zee) became the spiritual leader.\n\nSome scholars believe that Eckankar draws in part from the Sikh and Hindu religions, and the Sant Mat movement.\n\nOne of the basic tenets is that Soul (the true self) may be experienced separate from the physical body and in full consciousness travel freely in other planes of reality. Eckankar emphasizes personal spiritual experiences as the most natural way back to God. These are attained via Soul Travel shifting the awareness from the body to the inner planes of existence.\n\nCertain mantras or chants are used to facilitate spiritual growth. One important spiritual exercise of Eckankar is the singing or chanting of \"Hu\", and is viewed in Eckankar as a \"love song to God\". It is pronounced like the English word \"hue\" (or \"hyoo\") in a long, drawn-out breath and is sung for about half an hour. ECKists sing it alone or in groups. ECKists believe that singing Hu draws one closer in state of consciousness to the Divine Being and that it can expand awareness, help one experience divine love, heal broken hearts, offer solace in times of grief, and bring peace and calm. ECKists believe this practice allows the student to step back from the overwhelming input of the physical senses and emotions and regain Soul's spiritually higher viewpoint.\n\nDreams are regarded as important teaching tools, and members often keep dream journals to facilitate study. According to followers of Eckankar, dream travel often serves as the gateway to Soul Travel or the shifting of one's consciousness to ever-higher states of being.\n\nEckankar teaches that \"spiritual liberation\" in one's lifetime is available to all and that it is possible to achieve Self-Realization (the realization of oneself as Soul) and God-Realization (the realization of oneself as a spark of God) in one's lifetime. The membership card for Eckankar states: \"The aim and purpose of Eckankar has always been to take Soul by Its own path back to Its divine source.\"\n\nThe final spiritual goal of all ECKists is to become conscious \"Co-workers\" with God.\n\nThe \"Shariyat-Ki-Sugmad\", which means \"Way of the Eternal\", is the holy scripture of Eckankar. It comprises two books that tell of spiritual meaning and purpose as written by the Mahanta. There are also a series of Satsang writings, that are available with yearly membership in Eckankar. There are Satsang classes available to study discourses with others, as well as individually.\n\nSome of the key beliefs taught in the \"Shariyat-Ki-Sugmad\" include Soul Travel, karma, reincarnation, love, Light and Sound, and many other spiritual topics. ECKists believe Sugmad is the endless source from which all forms were created, and that the ECK, the Sound Current, flows out of Sugmad and into lower dimensions.\n\nPrimary to the teaching is the belief that one may experience the perspective of soul beyond the limits of the body. Also, the concepts of karma and reincarnation help to explain situations in life as the playing out of past causes.\nPrimary to the teaching, derived solidly from third party sources as explained above, is the belief that one may experience the perspective of soul beyond the limits of the body. Also, the concepts of karma and reincarnation help to explain situations in life as the playing out of past causes.\n\nThe beliefs that individuals are responsible for their own destiny and that their decisions determine their future are important concepts to Eckankar. Eckankar students meet in open public services and classes to discuss personal experiences, topics, books and discourses.\n\nEckankar emphasizes personal spiritual experiences as the most natural way back to God. These are attained via the Spiritual Exercises of ECK. Eckankar offers a Spiritual Exercise of the Week on its website.\n\nAn ECK Light and Sound service generally includes a HU Song and contemplation, a talk or panel discussion from members of the Eckankar Clergy, and often includes creative arts and group discussion. Eckankar hosts a Worldwide Seminar in October and a Springtime Seminar every year. Eckankar also hosts annual seminars in countries around the world. ECK seminars include speakers, creative arts, workshops, discussion groups and other activities.\n\nThe Eckankar \"EK\" symbol appears on the list of \"Available Emblems of Belief for Placement on Government Headstones and Markers\" by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. Sources estimate that there were around 50,000 followers in the 1990s.\n\nIn February 2018, Iranian agencies reported the execution of an Eckankar member for \"establishing fake institution\". Karim Zargar, the former Iran TV's channel one broadcast manager, general manager of IRIB's international section, head of the Faculty of Radio and Television, and owner and managing director of Film Reports magazine (Gozaresh-e-Film), was hanged at Rajai Shahr Prison. Marjan Davari, Mr. Zargar's former spouse, is also kept in prison and is sentenced to death for being a member of Eckankar. Ms. Davari's family has stated in the media and online that she is merely a researcher and a translator and is not a follower of Eckankar.\n\nThere are few personal requirements to be an ECKist; however, certain spiritual practices are recommended. Chief among these is daily practice of the \"Spiritual Exercises of ECK\" for 15–20 minutes. The most basic ECK spiritual exercise is singing the word \"Hu\". A wide variety of spiritual exercises are offered, and members are encouraged to create their own. There are no dietary requirements, taboos, or enforced ascetic practices. Eckankar does not require potential members to leave their current faith to join.\n\nThere are a number of ceremonies an ECKist can experience as part of the teaching, including a Consecration ceremony for initiating the young and infants, a Rite of Passage into adulthood (around age 13), a Wedding ceremony, and a Memorial service.\n\nECKists celebrate a spiritual new year on October 22. There is no organizational celebration of personal anniversaries, such as birthdays of the leaders.\n\nECKists believe contact with Divine Spirit, which they call the \"ECK\", can be made via the spiritual exercises of ECK and the guidance of the living ECK Master. It is held that the ECK Masters are here to serve all life irrespective of religious belief. The main Eckankar website includes a list of Masters. Writing in \"Introduction to New and Alternative Religions in America\", David Christopher Lane observes: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "28248415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28248415", "title": "Ecology Democracy Party", "text": "Ecology Democracy Party\n\nThe Ecology Democracy Party is a deep ecological political party in the U.S. state of Minnesota. Founded in 2010 by Ken Pentel, the party advocates a \"shift from a human-centered to an ecological view of the world.\"\n\nPentel was the Green Party of Minnesota candidate for Governor of Minnesota in 1998, 2002, and 2006. He has said his motivation for founding a new party was \"the lack of discipline and low expectations among the movements and organizations I have worked with.\"\n\nThe purpose of the Ecology Democracy Party is to restore a sustainable relationship with the Earth through education and grassroots organizing. The party attempts to offer guidance for necessary structural changes in the economy, the way we vote, and who influences our government. It attempts to accomplish these structural changes through three mandates:\n\n\nThe party advocates ecology, campaign finance reform, proportional representation, ending corporate personhood, holism, public funding of elections and establishing a tax-refundable Minnesota currency with zero interest.\n\nKen Pentel ran for Governor of Minnesota in 2010 and received 6,180 votes, or 0.29%.\n\nIn 2012 the party endorsed write-in candidate Andrew Schuler for U.S. Senate and ran Anthony Hilton for the State House, district 59B. Hilton received 1,423 votes, or 8.05%. It also ran Danene Provencher for Mound City Council, who received 26% of the vote.\n\nIn 2015 Schuler was endorsed as a candidate for Golden Valley City Council. He received 8.32% of the vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "155376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155376", "title": "Emanuel Bronner", "text": "Emanuel Bronner\n\nEmanuel Theodore Bronner (born , February 1, 1908 – March 7, 1997) was the maker of Dr. Bronner's Magic Soaps. He used product labels to promote his moral and religious ideas, including a belief in the goodness and unity of humanity.\n\nBronner was born in Heilbronn, Germany, to the Heilbronner family of soap makers. He emigrated to the United States in 1929, dropping \"Heil\" from his name because of its associations with Nazism. He became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1936. As the family was Jewish, he pleaded with his parents to emigrate with him for fear of the then-ascendant Nazi Party, but they refused. His last contact with his parents was in the form of a censored postcard saying, \"You were right. —Your loving father.\" His parents died in the Holocaust.\n\nHe started his business making products by hand, such as castile soap, in his home. The product labels are crowded with statements of Bronner's philosophy, which he called \"All-One-God-Faith\" and the \"Moral ABC\", both of which he included on the label of every soap bottle he produced. Many of Bronner's references came from Jewish and Christian sources, such as the Shema and the Beatitudes; others from writers such as Rudyard Kipling and Thomas Paine. On his labels he referred to the Jewish sage Hillel the Elder as \"Rabbi Hillel\" and to Jesus Christ as \"Rabbi Jesus.\" The labels became famous for their idiosyncratic style, including hyphens to join long strings of words and the liberal use of exclamation marks.\n\nIn 1946, while promoting his \"Moral ABC\" at the University of Chicago, Bronner was arrested for speaking without a permit, despite the fact he was invited to the campus to lecture by a local student group, and then committed to the Elgin Mental Health Center, a mental hospital in Elgin, Illinois, from which he escaped after shock treatments. Bronner believed those shock treatments brought about his eventual blindness.\n\nAfter moving his family several times, he settled in Escondido, California, where eventually his soap-making operation grew into a small factory. At his death in 1997, it produced more than a million bottles of soap and other products per year, but was still not mechanized. The firm has been the subject of many published articles and has supported many charitable causes.\n\nAfter Bronner's death, his family has continued to run the business. His grandson David Bronner is currently CEO. The family has said the labels he wrote will not change except when required by government regulations.\n\nHis life was the subject of a 2007 documentary film, \"Dr. Bronner's Magic Soapbox\", which premiered on the Sundance TV channel, on 3 July 2007.\n\nThe Sea Shepherd Conservation Society has a ship, the , donated by the soap company.\n\n"}
{"id": "19515374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19515374", "title": "Escalation hypothesis", "text": "Escalation hypothesis\n\nThe Escalation Hypothesis is a theory put forward by Geerat J. Vermeij. It states that organisms are in constant conflict with one another and therefore devote lots of resources to thwarting the adaptations evolution brings to all competing organisms as time advances. This is in contrast to adaptations evolution may bring that are unrelated to competition with other organisms such as adapting to ecological niches based upon other factors such as geology and climate. \n\nVermeij's extensive work with the characteristics of marine gastropod fossils informed his development of thoughts on escalation. One prediction of the Escalation Hypothesis is that individual species having fewer adaptations that enable them to compete with other life forms are more likely to survive a mass extinction event such as one of The Big Five. This is because there is more flexibility to fit into new ecological niches that arduous adaptations such as heavy shells or energy consuming venom production would hinder.\n\n"}
{"id": "3174740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174740", "title": "Eugene Kamenka", "text": "Eugene Kamenka\n\nEugene Kamenka (4 March 1928 – 19 January 1994) was an Australian political philosopher and Marxist scholar.\n\nKamenka was born in Cologne in 1928 and taken to Australia in 1937. He was educated at the Sydney Technical High School, and after interrupting his studies went to Jerusalem where he married his first wife Miriam Mizrachi and with her encouragement he returned to Sydney University to complete his degree and begin work on his later published thesis \"The Ethical Foundations of Marxism\" for the Australian national university, publ 1962. Professor John Anderson of Sydney University was a key influence in his early career. \n\nKamenka lectured in philosophy at the University of Singapore where he met his second wife, Alice Tay and lectured and researched in Europe, North America and most countries in Asia; he was a Professor and the Head of the History of Ideas Unit at the Institute of Advanced Studies of the Australian National University, and lived in Canberra. Together with his second wife, a professor of jurisprudence at Sydney University and scholar of comparative and Asian legal systems, he authored several works in philosophy of law and comparative law.\n\nHe died in Canberra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21870381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21870381", "title": "Explanatory power", "text": "Explanatory power\n\nExplanatory power is the ability of a hypothesis or theory to effectively explain the subject matter it pertains to. The opposite of explanatory power is \"explanatory impotence\".\n\nIn the past, various criteria or measures for explanatory power have been proposed. In particular, one hypothesis, theory, or explanation can be said to have more explanatory power than another about the same subject matter\n\n\nRecently, David Deutsch proposed that theorists should seek explanations that are \"hard to vary\".\n\nBy this expression he intends to state that a hard to vary explanation provides specific details which fit together so tightly that it is impossible to change any one detail without affecting the whole theory. \n\nPhilosopher and physicist David Deutsch offers a criterion for a good explanation that he says may be just as important to scientific progress as learning to reject appeals to authority, and adopting formal empiricism and falsifiability. To Deutsch, these aspects of a good explanation, and more, are contained in any theory that is specific and \"hard to vary\". He believes that this criterion helps eliminate \"bad explanations\" which continuously add justifications, and can otherwise avoid ever being truly falsified. An explanation that is hard to vary but does not survive a critical test can be considered falsified.\n\nDeutsch takes examples from Greek mythology. He describes how very specific, and even somewhat falsifiable theories were provided to explain how the gods' sadness caused the seasons. Alternatively, Deutsch points out, one could have just as easily explained the seasons as resulting from the gods' happiness - making it a bad explanation because it is so easy to arbitrarily change details. Without Deutsch's criterion, the 'Greek gods explanation' could have just kept adding justifications. This same criterion, of being \"hard to vary\", may be what makes the modern explanation for the seasons a good one: none of the details - about the earth rotating around the sun at a certain angle in a certain orbit - can be easily modified without changing the theory's coherence.\n\nIt can be argued that the criterion \"hard to vary\" is closely related to Occam's razor: both imply logical consistency and a minimum of assumptions.\n\nThe philosopher Karl Popper acknowledged it is logically possible to avoid falsification of a hypothesis by changing details to avoid any criticism, adopting the term an \"immunizing stratagem\" from Hans Albert. Popper argued that scientific hypotheses should be subjected to methodological testing to select for the strongest hypothesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "20926092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20926092", "title": "Fay-Cooper Cole", "text": "Fay-Cooper Cole\n\nFay-Cooper Cole (8 August 1881 – 3 September 1961) was a professor of anthropology and founder of the anthropology department at the University of Chicago and was a student of Franz Boas. Most famously, he was a witness for the defense for John Scopes at the Scopes Trial. Cole also played a central role in planning the anthropology exhibits for the 1933 Century of Progress World's Fair. He was elected a Member of the American Philosophical Society in 1941.\n\n\n\nRedman, Samuel J. Bone Rooms: From Scientific Racism to Human Prehistory in Museum (Cambridge: Harvard University Press). 2016.\n"}
{"id": "48993591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48993591", "title": "Flatpak", "text": "Flatpak\n\nFlatpak (formerly xdg-app) is a software utility for software deployment, package management, and application virtualization for Linux desktop computers. It provides a sandbox environment in which users can run applications in isolation from the rest of the system. Applications using Flatpak need permission from the user to control hardware devices or access the user's files.\n\nThe idea of using application containers in GNOME was first proposed in 2013 by Lennart Poettering, who published an article about it in 2014. Developed as part of the freedesktop.org project (formerly known as X Desktop Group or XDG), it was originally called \"xdg-app\".\n\n, some popular apps available as Flatpaks include Blender, Gimp, LibreOffice, Pitivi, KDE Applications, Linphone, and GNOME Recipes. There are also some unofficial Flatpaks such as development versions of Mozilla Firefox, Skype, and Spotify.\n\n"}
{"id": "52508709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52508709", "title": "Institute of Philosophy, Russian Academy of Sciences", "text": "Institute of Philosophy, Russian Academy of Sciences\n\nThe Institute of Philosophy was founded as the Institute of Scientific Philosophy in 1921 by Gustav Shpet, who was its first director until 1923. The philosophy department of the University of Moscow had been disbanded in the summer of 1921, however philosophers such as Semyon Frank and Ivan Ilyin attempted to set up temporary courses at the new institute. However, the Bolsheviks soon put a stop to this and Frank and Ilyin where amongst the deportees sent into exile on the philosophers' ships. Shpet's name was put forward for deportation but Anatoli Lunacharsky, the People's Commissar for Education, intervened and he was allowed to remain in Russia.\n"}
{"id": "3400637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3400637", "title": "Jean-Luc Marion", "text": "Jean-Luc Marion\n\nJean-Luc Marion (born 3 July 1946) is a French philosopher and Roman Catholic theologian. Marion is a former student of Jacques Derrida whose work is informed by patristic and mystical theology, phenomenology, and modern philosophy. Much of his academic work has dealt with Descartes and phenomenologists like Martin Heidegger and Edmund Husserl, but also religion. \"God Without Being\", for example, is concerned predominantly with an analysis of idolatry, a theme strongly linked in Marion's work with love and the gift, which is a concept also explored at length by Derrida.\n\nMarion was born in Meudon, Hauts-de-Seine, on 3 July 1946. He studied at the University of Nanterre (now the University Paris Ouest Nanterre La Défense) and the and then did graduate work in philosophy from the École Normale Supérieure in Paris, where he was taught by Jacques Derrida, Louis Althusser and Gilles Deleuze. At the same time, Marion's deep interest in theology was privately cultivated under the personal influence of theologians such as Louis Bouyer, Jean Daniélou, Henri de Lubac, and Hans Urs von Balthasar. From 1972 to 1980 he studied for his doctorate and worked as an assistant lecturer at the Sorbonne. After receiving his doctorate in 1980, he began teaching at the University of Poitiers.\n\nFrom there he moved to become the Director of Philosophy at the University Paris X – Nanterre, and in 1991 also took up the role of \"professeur invité\" at the Institut Catholique de Paris. In 1996 he became Director of Philosophy at the University of Paris IV (), where he still teaches.\n\nMarion became a visiting professor at the University of Chicago Divinity School in 1994. He was then appointed the John Nuveen Professor of the Philosophy of Religion and Theology there in 2004, a position he held until 2010. That year, he was appointed the Andrew Thomas Greeley and Grace McNichols Greeley Professor of Catholic Studies at the Divinity School, a position that had been vacated by the retirement of theologian David Tracy.\n\nOn 6 November 2008, Marion was elected as an \"immortel\" by the Académie française. Marion now occupies seat 4 an office previously held by Cardinal Lustiger.\n\nHis awards include:\n\nMarion's phenomenological work is set out in three volumes which together form a triptych or trilogy. \"Réduction et donation: Etudes sur Husserl, Heidegger et la phénoménologie\" (1989) is an historical study of the phenomenological method followed by Husserl and Heidegger, with a view towards suggesting future directions for phenomenological research. The unexpected reaction that \"Réduction et donation\" provoked called for clarification and full development. This was addressed in \"Étant donné: Essai d'une phénoménologie de la donation\" (1997), a more conceptual work investigating phenomenological givenness, the saturated phenomenon and the gifted—a rethinking of the subject. \"Du surcroît\" (2001) provides an in-depth description of saturated phenomena.\n\nMarion claims that he has attempted to \"radically reduce the whole phenomenological project beginning with the primacy in it of givenness\". What he describes as his one and only theme is the givenness that is required before phenomena can show themselves in consciousness—\"what \"shows itself\" first \"gives itself\". This is based on the argument that any and all attempts to lead phenomena back to immanence in consciousness, that is, to exercise the phenomenological reduction, necessarily results in showing that givenness is the \"sole horizon of phenomena\"\n\nMarion radicalizes this argument in the formulation, \"As much reduction, as much givenness\", and offers this as a new first principle of phenomenology, building on and challenging prior formulae of Husserl and Heidegger. The formulation common to both, Marion argues, \"So much appearance, so much Being\", adopted from Johann Friedrich Herbart, erroneously elevates \"appearing\" to the status of the \"sole face of Being\". In doing so, it leaves appearing itself undetermined, not subject to the reduction, and thus in a \"typically metaphysical situation\".\n\nThe Husserlian formulation, \"To the things themselves!\", is criticized on the basis that the things in question would remain what they are even without appearing to a subject—again circumventing the reduction or even without becoming phenomena. Appearing becomes merely a mode of access to objects, rendering the formulation inadequate as a first principle of phenomenology. A third formulation, Husserl's \"Principle of all Principles\", states \"that \"every primordial dator Intuition is a source of authority (Rechtsquelle) for knowledge\", that \"whatever presents itself in intuition...is simply to be accepted as it gives itself out to be\", though \"only within the limits in which it then presents itself\".\" Marion argues that while the Principle of all Principles places givenness as phenomenality's criterion and achievement, givenness still remains uninterrogated. Whereas it admits limits to intuition (\"as it gives itself..., though only within the limits in which it presents itself\"), \"givenness alone is absolute, free and without condition\"\n\nGivenness then is not reducible except to itself, and so is freed from the limits of any other authority, including intuition; a reduced given is either given or not given. \"As much reduction, as much givenness\" states that givenness is what the reduction accomplishes, and any reduced given is reduced to givenness. The more a phenomenon is reduced, the more it is given. Marion calls the formulation the last principle, equal to the first, that of the appearing itself.\n\nBy describing the structures of phenomena from the basis of givenness, Marion claims to have succeeded in describing certain phenomena that previous metaphysical and phenomenological approaches either ignore or exclude—givens that show themselves but which a thinking that does not go back to the given is powerless to receive. In all, three types of phenomena can be shown, according to the proportionality between what is given in intuition and what is intended:\n\n\nAccording to John D. Caputo, Marion \"is famous for the idea of what he calls the \"saturated phenomenon,\" which is inspired by his study of Christian Neoplatonic mystical theologians...[The idea that] there are phenomena of such overwhelming givenness or overflowing fulfillment that the intentional acts aimed at these phenomena are overrun, flooded—or saturated.\"\n\nThe fourth section of Marion's work \"Prolegomena to Charity\" is entitled \"The Intentionality of Love\" and primarily concerns intentionality and phenomenology. Influenced by (and dedicated to) the French philosopher Emmanuel Levinas, Marion explores the human idea of love and its lack of definition: \"We live with love as if we knew what it was about. But as soon as we try to define it, or at least approach it with concepts, it draws away from us.\" He begins by explaining the essence of consciousness and its \"lived experiences.\" Paradoxically, the consciousness concerns itself with objects transcendent and exterior to itself, objects irreducible to consciousness, but can only comprehend its 'interpretation' of the object; the reality of the object arises from consciousness alone. Thus the problem with love is that to love another is to love one's own idea of another, or the \"lived experiences\" that arise in the consciousness from the \"chance cause\" of another: \"I must, then, name this love \"my\" love, since it would not fascinate me as my idol if, first, it did not render to me, like an unseen mirror, the image of myself. Love, loved for itself, inevitably ends as self-love, in the phenomenological figure of self-idolatry.\" Marion believes intentionality is the solution to this problem, and explores the difference between the \"I\" who intentionally sees objects and the \"me\" who is intentionally seen by a counter-consciousness, another, whether the \"me\" likes it or not. Marion defines another by its invisibility; one can see objects through intentionality, but in the invisibility of the other, one is seen. Marion explains this invisibility using the pupil: \"Even for a gaze aiming objectively, the pupil remains a living refutation of objectivity, an irremediable denial of the object; here for the first time, in the very midst of the visible, there is nothing to see, except an invisible and untargetable void...my gaze, for the first time, sees an invisible gaze that sees it.\" Love, then, when freed from intentionality, is the weight of this other's invisible gaze upon one's own, the cross of one's own gaze and the other's and the \"unsubstitutability\" of the other. Love is to \"render oneself there in an unconditional surrender...no other gaze must respond to the ecstasy of \"this particular\" other exposed in his gaze.\" Perhaps in allusion to a theological argument, Marion concludes that this type of surrender \"requires faith.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36477851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36477851", "title": "Jeong Nan-jeong", "text": "Jeong Nan-jeong\n\nJeong Nan-jeong (hangul: 정난정; hanja: 鄭蘭貞, ? - November 13, 1565) was a Korean (Joseon Dynasty) politician and philosopher. She was a concubine and the 2nd wife of Yun Won-hyung, Prime minister and 13th King Myeongjong's uncle, and was close to her sister-in-law Queen Munjeong. She had Yun Won-hyung's first wife poisoned to death. In 1565, after the death of Queen Munjeong, both Jeong and Yun were exiled from the capital, and unable to make a political comeback, both committed suicide by poison (Jeong first, followed by her husband)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17315703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17315703", "title": "Jerusalem Colophon", "text": "Jerusalem Colophon\n\nThe Jerusalem Colophon is a colophon found in a number of New Testament manuscripts, including Λ (039), 20, 153, 157, 164, 215, 262, 300, 376, 428, 565, 566, 686, 718, 728, 748, 829, 899, 901, 922, 980, 1032, 1071, 1118, 1121, 1124, 1187, 1198, 1355, 1422, 1521, 1545, 1555, 1682, 2145, and 2245. The full version of the colophon is εὐαγγέλιον κατὰ Ματθαῖον ἐγράφη καὶ ὰντεβλήθη ἐκ τῶν Ἱεροσολύμοις παλαιῶν ἀντιγράφων τῶν ἐν τῷ Ἁγίῳ Ὃρει ἀποκειμένων ἐν στίχοις . κεφφ. .\n– that the manuscript (in this case the \"Gospel According to Matthew\") was \"copied and corrected from the ancient exemplars from Jerusalem preserved on the holy mountain\" (according to the majority of scholars, it was Mount Athos) in 2514 verses and 355 chapters. Usually the colophon is abbreviated in subsequent mentions in the same manuscript. The texts of the manuscripts that share the colophon are not necessarily textually related (though a surprising number belong to Group Λ (039), 164, 262, and perhaps some of the many manuscripts Wisse does not classify). In many cases the colophon was copied down from document to document independent of the text. The majority of these manuscripts are representative of the Byzantine text-type.\n\nThe meaning of the colophon was discussed by Kirsopp Lake. Lake holds that the \"Holy Mountain\" is Mount Sinai.\n\nAccording to Caspar René Gregory it would be possible that the manuscript Tischendorfianus III was written and corrected in Jerusalem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37221444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37221444", "title": "Jewish vegetarianism", "text": "Jewish vegetarianism\n\nJewish vegetarianism is the belief that following a vegetarian diet is demanded by the Torah or by other Jewish values. While classical Jewish law neither requires nor prohibits the consumption of meat, Jewish vegetarians often cite Jewish principles regarding animal welfare, environmental ethics, moral character, and health as reasons for adopting a vegetarian or vegan diet.\n\nGenesis 1:29 states \"And God said: Behold, I have given you every herb yielding seed which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree that has seed-yielding fruit—to you it shall be for food.\" Many scholars see the Torah as thereby pointing to vegetarianism as an ideal, as Adam and Eve did not partake of the flesh of animals as all humans and animals were originally commanded by God to only eat plants. According to some interpretations, God's original plan was for mankind to be vegetarian, and God only later gave permission for man to eat meat in a covenant with Noah (Genesis 9:1–17) as a temporary concession because of Man's weak nature. This concessionary view of meat-consumption is based on the scriptural analysis of several Rishonim.\n\nThe Torah gives precise details on how animals are to be sacrificed and slaughtered (\"shechita\"). According to Rabbis Shlomo Ephraim Luntschitz and Abraham Isaac Kook the complexity of these laws were intended to discourage the consumption of meat. \"Kashrut\" may also be designed to remind Jews of the magnitude of the task undertaken in killing a living being.\n\nSome writers assert that the Jewish prophet Isaiah was a vegetarian, on the basis of passages in the Book of Isaiah that extol nonviolence and reverence for life, such as Isaiah 1:11, 11:6-9, 65:25, and 66:3. Some of these writers refer to \"the vegetarian Isaiah\", \"the notorious vegetarian Isaiah\", and \"Isaiah, the vegetarian prophet\".\n\nThe pious Jewish youths Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego became vegan according to the Bible story found in Daniel 1:8-16. At Daniel's request, the four boys were subjected to a test; they were fed vegetables and water for ten days. At the end of the ten days, the four boys were in better condition than the other boys who ate a non-vegan diet. Consequently, they remained on the vegan diet after the test concluded.\n\nAccording to Clement of Alexandria, Matthew the Apostle was a vegetarian. Clement wrote: \"Matthew partook of seeds, and nuts, and vegetables, without flesh.\" James the brother of Jesus of Nazareth was said to have been vegetarian. As Eusebius puts it quoting Hegesippus: \"[James] drank no wine or other intoxicating liquor, nor did he eat flesh.\" Hegesippus also stated that James did not wear wool, but only linen.\n\nA number of ancient Jewish sects, including early Karaite sects, regarded the eating of meat as prohibited as long as Zion was in ruins and Israel in exile.\n\nA number of medieval scholars of Judaism, such as Joseph Albo and Isaac Arama, regard vegetarianism as a moral ideal, not out of a concern for animal welfare per se but out of a concern for the moral character of the slaughterer. Rabbeinu Asher ben Meshullam (twelfth century theologian and Talmudic scholar, son of Meshullam ben Jacob)) was said to have never tasted meat.\n\nWhile most modern-day Jews are not vegetarian, a number of prominent rabbis have advocated vegetarianism or veganism. In 2017, a statement by Jewish Veg encouraging veganism for all Jews was signed by notable rabbis including Jonathan Wittenberg, Daniel Sperber, David Wolpe, Nathan Lopes Cardozo, Kerry Olitzky, Shmuly Yanklowitz, Aryeh Cohen, Geoffrey Claussen, Rami M. Shapiro, David Rosen, Raysh Weiss, Elyse Goldstein, Shefa Gold, and Yonassan Gershom. Other notable rabbis who have promoted vegetarianism have included David Cohen (known as \"Ha-Nazir\"), Shlomo Goren, Irving Greenberg, Jeremy Gimpel, Asa Keisar, Jonathan Sacks, She'ar Yashuv Cohen, and Yitzhak HaLevi Herzog, Everett Gendler, Joseph Soloveitchik, and Abraham Isaac Kook. While Kook was not completely vegetarian, David Cohen wrote an influential essay, \"A Vision of Vegetarianism and Peace\" (first published in installments in 1903–04) summarizing Kook's ideas about the \"coming of the new society\" in which humankind becomes vegan.\n\nOther notable Jewish vegetarians include Shmuel Yosef Agnon, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Reuven Rivlin, Franz Kafka, Richard H. Schwartz, Jonathan Safran Foer, Aaron S. Gross, and Roberta Kalechofsky.\n\nThe first Jewish-vegetarian cookbook has been compiled by Fania Lewando and was first published in 1938 in Vilnius. An English translation was issued in 2015.\n\nA number of groups promote Jewish vegetarianism:\n\n\nJewish vegetarianism and veganism have become especially popular among Israeli Jews. In 2016, Israel was described as \"the most vegan country on Earth,\" as five percent of its population eschewed all animal products. That number had more than doubled since 2010, when only 2.6 percent of Israelis were either vegan or vegetarian. Veganism is particularly popular in the city of Tel Aviv, which has been described as the \"vegan capital of the world.\"\n\nInterest in veganism and vegetarianism has grown among Israel's diverse Jewish populations, including among secular Jews and Orthodox Jews. The Israeli rabbi Asa Keisar is a rare example of an Orthodox rabbi who has argued that eating meat and animal byproducts is no longer permitted according to Jewish sources, because of the cruelty inflicted on animals. It is more common for Orthodox rabbis to call on Jews to reduce their consumption of animal products, as when a consortium of 120 Orthodox rabbis scholars, and community leaders in Jerusalem, known as Beit Hillel, issued a paper calling on Jews to reduce meat consumption in order to alleviate animal suffering.\n\nThere are several religious and philosophical arguments used by modern Jewish vegetarians regarding the ethics of eating meat. According to some, vegetarianism is consistent with the sacred teachings and highest ideals of Judaism, including compassion, health, life, conservation of resources, tzedakah, kashrut, peace, and justice. In contrast, the mass production and consumption of meat and other animal products contradicts many Jewish values and teachings, gravely harming people, animals, communities, and the environment.\n\nOne \"mitzvah\" cited by vegetarians is \"tza'ar ba'alei hayyim\"; the injunction not to cause \"pain to living creatures.\" The laws of \"shechita\" are meant to prevent the suffering of animals. However, factory farming and high-speed mechanized kosher slaughterhouses have been criticized for failing to meet the essence of shechita. Jonathan Safran Foer narrated the short documentary film \"If This Is Kosher...\", which records what he considers abuses within the kosher meat industry.\n\nAnother mitzvah often cited by Jewish vegetarians is \"bal tashchit\"; the law which prohibits waste. They suggest that an omnivorous diet is wasteful, since it uses 5 times more grain, 10 times more water, 15 times more land and 20 times more energy when compared to a vegan diet.\n\nSome Jewish vegetarians also stress the commandment to maintain one's health and not harm oneself (\"venishmartem me'od lenafshoteichem\"), and point to\nresearch indicating that following a vegetarian diet promotes better health. Jewish vegetarians have also argued for environmental vegetarianism, pointing out that global warming, hunger and the depletion of natural resources can be lessened by a global shift to a vegetarian or vegan diet.\n\nSome Orthodox rabbis have argued that it is forbidden for an individual to become a vegetarian if they do so because they believe in animal rights, but have ruled that vegetarianism is allowed for pragmatic reasons (if kosher meat is expensive or hard to come by in their area), health concerns, or for reasons of personal taste (if someone finds meat unpalatable). Some believe that halakha encourages the eating of meat at the Sabbath and Festival meals; thus some Orthodox Jews who are otherwise vegetarian will nevertheless consume meat at these meals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "763619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763619", "title": "Johann Heinrich Abicht", "text": "Johann Heinrich Abicht\n\nJohann Heinrich Abicht (4 May 1762 – 28 April 1816) was a German philosopher.\n\nAbicht was born at (now part of Rudolstadt). His grandfather was teacher and organist in Wilmersdorf, Gehren, and his father was a teacher in Volkstedt. Johann Abicht himself finished the college in Rudolstadt and visited the University of Erlangen in 1781. In 1784 he became controller at the house of chief equerry von Schall in Öhringen. Abicht made his magister in 1786 and his doctor in philosophy in 1790. In the same year, he was appointed adjunct and then extraordinary professor in the philosophical faculty. He became regular professor in 1796. On 4 August 1804 he was appointed professor of logic and metaphysics at the newly reorganised university of Wilna. He died at Wilna, aged 53.\n\nHis philosophy is clearly influenced by Kant, later by Karl Leonhard Reinhold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49670559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49670559", "title": "Judicial system in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Judicial system in the United Arab Emirates\n\nThe legal system of the United Arab Emirates is based on the Constitution of the United Arab Emirates; this system is dual in nature as it has local and federal courts with a Supreme Court Based at Abu Dhabi.\n\nUnlike Britain and other countries where previous court judgments are regularly used as legal precedents, the UAE does not depend that much on precedents, although sometimes the judgments of higher courts can be applied by lower courts in similar cases.\n\nWhere legislative provisions do not cover a specific issue, the court will make a decision in accordance with Sharia law. Islamic jurisprudence is widely used in the construction and interpretation of the UAE law.\n\nPrior to the Union in 1971, the Trucial States were known as a protectorate of the British Empire established through a number of treaties. During that period, most disputes were handled by the rulers of the emirates, heads of local tribes, and unofficial judges following customary law. The primary source of law was Islam along with the unwritten social conventions or \"Urf\". Sharia judges specialized in family disputes whereas customary law judges handled criminal assaults and personal disputes. In the inland Bedouin communities, disputes usually related to livestock and water resources. Disputes in coastal cities were normally about trade and commercial relations, particularly related to the pearl trade.\n\nAfter the 1853 truce, disputes pertaining to pearl diving were handled directly by the British political resident in the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates’ Constitution, which came into effect on 2 December 1971, dedicates all its fifth Section for the Union legal system. Article 94 of the Constitution stipulates that “justice is the basis of authority”.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates is essentially a civil law jurisdiction that depends in the first place on Roman, French, Egyptian laws . However, the main source of the Emirati law is the Sharia law. International law is another source of Emirati law, in compliance with the UAE obligations signed in international conventions.\n\nBeing the highest judicial instance in the UAE does not mean that it applies to the seven Emirates, Dubai and Ras Al Khayma have their own local judicial system. Article 96 of the UAE Constitution reads as follows “The Supreme Court of the Union shall consist of a President and a number of Judges, not exceeding five in all, who shall be appointed by decree, issued by the President of the Union after approval by the Supreme Council ”.\n\nThe constitution also divides courts in the country into two types, federal courts and local courts. The president and the members of the Supreme Court can by no means be removed from their offices, except in the following cases: Death, resignation, completion of term or secondment, retirement, permanent disability that prevent a judge from undertaking their duties, disciplinary discharge and finally “appointment to other offices, with their agreement”. Any court has it jurisdiction, the judgments of the Emirati Supreme Court cover matters like Miscellaneous disputes raising between the Member Emirates, law constitutionality, constitution interpretation, interrogation of senior officials of the Union like Ministers, crimes threatening affecting the interests of the Union. Article 101 of the Emirati Constitution stipulates that “The judgements of the Supreme Court of the Union shall be final and binding upon all.”\n\nThe first President of the Union Supreme Court of the United Arab Emirates is H.E Judge Dr. Abdul Wahab Abdul (incumbent).\n\nAs their names suggests, Federal Courts are competent to consider all cases arising within the UAE territory, like disputes, domiciliary, transactions, etc. \"Furthermore, UAE courts have a kind of “emergency jurisdiction,” whereby a UAE court can determine preliminary applications for attachment of a defendant’s assets as well as urgent applications, even where the court would otherwise lack jurisdiction\" . Cases are commenced in Federal Courts when the complaint is filed with the Reconciliation and Settlement Committee. “The relevant reconciliation committee will attempt reconciliation, and refer complaints to the court only after resolution efforts have failed.”\n\nLocal courts (First Instance Court) in the UAE basically consider “cases, authentications and all urgent matters related to disputes among the people as well as the safeguard of their rights, security and safety. It also undertakes forcible judicial execution for execution deed stipulated by law, as well as executions by deputation or reference”.\n\nSharia Courts\n\nSharia courts focus on civil disputes in which the parties are Muslims. They depend on the juristic provisions provided for in the Quran the Hadith to render decisions. “The Sharia court may, at the federal level only (which, as mentioned earlier, excludes Dubai and Ras Al Khaimah), also hear appeals of certain criminal cases including rape, robbery, driving under the influence of alcohol and related crimes, which were originally tried in lower criminal courts.\"\n\nCivil Courts\n\nThe jurisdiction of civil courts is generic as they can consider urgent cases and petitions of all types, including petitions of attachments, orders of payment and complaints. A civil Court also \"deals with financial and corporeal rights and legal positions meant to protect by virtue of it, it does not includes commercial, realty, labor, personal status or endowment or inheritance cases\".\n\nThe DIFC Courts are an independent English language common law judiciary, with jurisdiction governing civil and commercial disputes nationally, regionally and worldwide. The Courts began operations in 2006.\n\nOriginally, the jurisdiction of the DIFC Courts was limited to the geographical area of the DIFC. On October 2011, the signing of Dubai Law No 16. allowed the DIFC Courts to hear any local or international cases and to resolve commercial disputes with the consent of all parties.\n\nEstablished in accordance with Abu Dhabi Law No (4) of 2013, ADGM Courts are broadly modelled on the English judicial system. The common law of England, including the principles and rules of Equity, apply and form part of the law of the Abu Dhabi Global Market. The Regulations for ADGM Courts were also drawn from Scots and Australian Federal law and have been tailored specifically to meet the requirements of ADGM Courts. The direct application of English law makes ADGM the first jurisdiction in the Middle East to adopt a similar approach to that of Singapore and Hong Kong.\n\nNeither DIFC nor ADGM courts have jurisdiction in criminal matters.\n\nDubai and Ras Al Khaimah have two independent legal systems. For instance, Dubai’s court system three stages: The Court of First Instance, the Court of Appeal, and the Court of Cassation. Generally speaking, Dubai and Ras Al Khaimah courts consider local disputes concerning property and domestic disputes. However, it can also enforce foreign judgments, arbitration awards, and awards from other tribunals such as the dispute resolution bodies within the Free Zones & Special Economic Zones. The legal systems of the two emirates are different from one another at several levels, but there is at least one important similarity which that of being independent from the federal system, and from the authority of the federal Supreme Court \n\nEstablished pursuant to Local Decree No.26 of 2013, the RDC has almost exclusive jurisdiction to settle disputes arising between landlords and tenants in Dubai, as per Dubai Law No.26 of 2007 Regulating Relationship between Landlords and Tenants in the Emirate of Dubai.\n\nThere are various Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanisms available for individuals and business in the UAE.\n\nArbitration has long been recognized as a dispute resolution mechanism in the region, and one that has been quoted in Islamic religious texts. There has been numerous initiatives in the UAE to build up a strong presence in international commercial arbitration, including the codification of modern arbitration rules in federal and other laws.\n\nFirst created in 1994 as the \"Centre for Commercial Conciliation and Arbitration\", the current DIAC is non-profit institution located in the Dubai Chamber of Commerce & Industry (DCCI).\n\nA joint venture between the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) and the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA). The arbitration rules for the Center are closely modeled on the LCIA’s own rules with some modifications.\n\nIICRA is an international, independent, non-profit organization supporting the Islamic finance industry. The center settles all financial and commercial disputes that arise between financial or business institutions that choose to apply the provisions of Islamic law, Sharia principles, in resolving disputes that arise between these institutions and their clients or between them and third parties through reconciliation or arbitration.\n\nUnder the UAE Federal Labor Law, all unresolved employment disputes must be lodged first at the Ministry of Labour office where a settlement is negotiated between employers and workers. If the negotiations fail, either party may take up the matter at court. Since there are no trade unions in the UAE, collective disputes are handled by a special committee composed of the Minister of Labour, a Supreme Court Judge, and one expert. In Dubai, individuals can also refer to a similar service provided by the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs as a first step before going to court. In 2015, a new department dedicated to resolving disputes between domestic helpers and sponsors has opened at the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs (GDRFA) branch in Al Aweer. The department, a sub-branch of the Follow up on Illegals and Foreigners Sector, handles complaints from domestic helpers in Dubai. \n\nIn Dubai, the General Department of Human Rights at Dubai Police receives individual and collective complaints filed by workers against their employers. Complaints would be related to living conditions, wages, and security and safety of labour accommodations and this service is accessible online. \n\nAs to civil servants in Dubai, employment complaints can be filed at the office of the Ruler of Dubai, which will attempt to find an agreement between the two parties. If it fails, it will issue the employee a letter addressed to the Dubai courts regarding the complaint. In 2015, the Crown Prince of Dubai has approved the establishment of the Dubai government staff central grievances committee. Members of the committee include a representative from the General Secretariat of the Executive Council of the Emirate of Dubai, the higher legislation committee and the department of human resources. \n\nDisputes that fall under the jurisdiction of the Centre are not registered at the courts unless they are submitted first and a referral is issued. Claims are handled by experienced mediators under the supervision of a judge. Once a settlement is reached, the legally enforceable agreement will be signed by the parties and attested by a judge.\n\nThe Family Guidance Department forms an essential part of the family court. All divorce applications are handled first through the department where experienced mediators work to resolve the issues between couples and family members.\n\nThe Commercial Compliance and Consumer Protection Sector in Dubai Economy aims at raising the awareness and by commercial commitment, providing a safe and encouraging economic environment for businesses and investors, and increasing the awareness and trust of the consumer in the Emirate of Dubai. The organizational units in the Commercial Compliance and Consumer Protection Sector work to provide services to the consumers, businesses and the intellectual property owners. The organizational units also organize the practice of economic activity in the Emirate through inspection visits to the markets and raise the awareness of consumers and businesses through workshops and different awareness programs.\n\nThe Consumer Protection Department is responsible for protecting the rights of the consumers and educating them about their rights and responsibilities by providing consumer complaints services, organizing workshops and awareness programs aiming at enabling consumers to comply with the consumer laws and to follow the proper instructions that may preserve and guarantee the rights of the consumer and the business.\nConsumer Complaints Department:\nThe Consumer Complaints Department receives complaints, inquiries and remarks of the consumers against the commercial establishments in the Emirate of Dubai. Complaints received by the staff of Dubai Economy, and considered in accordance with the consumer protection law, and the procedures in force at Department of Economic Development.\n\nDubai Consumer Application – download it from Play Store or App Store \nAligning with directions of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed, bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE, Ruler of Dubai, to provide government services with the best quality and time efficiency using the latest Artificial Intelligence systems. (SMART Protection), an artificial intelligence system that is the first of its kind in the world, has been developed to protect consumers and introduce them to their rights and obligations. The system uses the direct dialogue method to understand the details of the Complaint, process it, analyze the data and respond to the consumer with the applicable policies and laws in a simplified and immediate manner within a few minutes without human interaction by the specialists. At the end of the conversation, the consumer gets an enforceable letter to empower the consumers and enable them to communicate directly with the companies and obtain solutions. The system aims to increase consumers’ confidence in local markets by enabling them to solve consumer complaints in only 5 minutes and at high quality at any time, place and around the clock.\n\n• Call center 600545555 (solving problems in 4 working days) \n• Instagram :dubai_consumers\n• Twitter :dubai_consumers\n• Face Book dubai_consumers\n• We Chat :\n亲爱的消费者，微信号+971 55 954 0619请添加。\n謝謝你 歡迎來到迪拜\n\nMediation is one of the legal services provided by the Chamber. The value of mediation cases which were settled by the chamber during 2015 reached Dh18.3 million ($4.9 millions). The first mediation smart app in the Middle East was announced in 2015.\n\nThe Small Claims Tribunal (SCT) of the DIFC Courts, features a formal session of mediation as part of its procedure. Approximately 90% of applications before the SCT settle at the “consultation” phase which is a mandatory court–guided mediation session. Only if the parties are unable to reach a settlement will a judge of the DIFC Courts go on to hold a hearing and deliver a Court judgment. SCT proceedings are confidential and parties are not normally legally represented.\n\nSince early years following its independence, the UAE has tried to build its judicial framework. To achieve this goal, the UAE has worked on several levels. Training people who would be judges, lawyers, clerks and others was one very important level.\n\nThe Institute of Training and Judicial Studies (ITJS) based in Abu Dhabi was established in December 14, 1992. The Cabinet issued Resolution N 14 of 1992 that officially establishes this institute. In 2004, a federal law confirmed the federal status of the institute.\n\nInstitute of Training and Judicial Studies (ITJS) undertakes several missions:\n\nDubai Judicial Institute is a public institute established in 1996 by virtue of law No 1 of 1996, amended by law No 27 of 2009. This institute undertakes it’s the missions under the supervision the Cabinet of the Ruler of Dubai.\n\nAbu Dhabi Judicial Academy was established under Decision No (16) of 2007 issued by His Highness Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Chairman of the Judicial Department, the Academy is an institution of higher education and specialized training that trains the Judicial Authority members on all branches of law and judicial majors.\n\nThe DIFC Dispute Resolution Authority Academy (Academy of Law) was established in 2015 as an independent entity to provide quality services to the UAE legal community. Its core functions include training and regulating lawyers, publishing, hosting events for the legal community, and providing free legal advice for people in need. The academy offers comprehensive training to UAE legal professionals from all backgrounds and levels, from experienced English language Common Law practitioners through to newly qualified lawyers and those currently operating in the Arabic speaking civil system. The training faculty includes senior practicing barristers from Dubai and London with extensive experience of training advocates in England and other jurisdictions.\n\nEstablished in 2005, the UAE Branch of CIArb is part of the network of CIArb branches across the world. It offers arbitration related training, education (both in Arabic and English), as well as networking events for legal professionals and arbitrators.\n\nThe Initiatives aim at enhancing the capacities of individuals engaged in the judicial field, and motivating pioneering in legal work. The project consists of a number of programs including the moot court competition, legal scientific research competition, legal scholarships program, program for legal and judicial conferences, and the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) Courts Academy.\n"}
{"id": "2477280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2477280", "title": "Kasa (hat)", "text": "Kasa (hat)\n\nA is any one of several sorts of traditional Japanese hats. Some types are \"amigasa\", \"jingasa\", \"sandogasa\", \"sugegasa\", and \"takuhatsugasa\". Note that \"rendaku\" (\"sequential voicing\") causes \"kasa\" to change to \"gasa\" when it is preceded by another word specifying the type of hat: thus, (\"camp hat\"; helmet).\n\nAn \"amigasa\" is a straw hat of the type traditionally worn in some Japanese folk dances. Another kind of \"kasa\", the woven rice-straw \"takuhatsugasa\" worn by mendicant Buddhist monks, is made overlarge and in a bowl or mushroom shape. Unlike a rice farmer's hat, it does not come to a point, nor does it ride high on the head like a samurai's traveling hat. It is simply a big hat that covers the upper half to two thirds of the face, thereby helping to mask the identity of the monk and allowing him to travel undistracted by sights around him on his journey.\n\nThe samurai class in feudal Japan, as well as their retainers and footsoldiers (ashigaru), used several types of \"jingasa\" made from iron, copper, wood, paper, bamboo, or leather.\n\n\"Kasa\" shares its etymology with the Japanese word for \"umbrella\" (which is also pronounced \"kasa\", but written 傘).\nAlso known as \"San Pan\"\n\nHere is a list of several types of \"kasa\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4347101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4347101", "title": "Keith Donnellan", "text": "Keith Donnellan\n\nKeith Sedgwick Donnellan (; 25 June 1931 – 20 February 2015) was an American philosopher and Professor Emeritus of the UCLA department of Philosophy. He spent most of his career at UCLA but taught, before that, at Cornell, where he also earned his PhD. Donnellan contributed to the philosophy of language, most notably to the analysis of proper names and definite descriptions. For instance, Donnellan criticized Bertrand Russell's theory of definite descriptions for overlooking the distinction between referential and attributive use of definite descriptions.\n\nBy 1970, analytic philosophers widely accepted a view regarding the reference-relation that holds of proper names and that which they name which is known as \"descriptivism\" and attributed to Bertrand Russell. Descriptivism holds that ordinary proper names (e.g., 'Socrates', 'Richard Feynman', and 'Madagascar') may be paraphrased by definite descriptions (e.g., 'Plato's favorite philosopher', 'the man who devised the theory of quantum electrodynamics', and 'the largest island off the southeastern coast of Africa'). Saul Kripke gave a series of three lectures at Princeton University in 1970, later published as \"Naming and Necessity\", in which he argued against descriptivism and sketched the causal-historical theory of reference according to which each proper name necessarily designates a particular object and that the identity of the object so designated is determined by the history of the name's use. These lectures were highly influential and marked the decline of Descriptivism's popularity. Kripke's alternative view was, by his own account, not fully developed in his lectures. Donnellan's work on proper names is among the earliest and most influential developments of the causal-historical theory of reference.\n\n\"Reference and Definite Descriptions\" has been one of Donnellan's most influential essays. Written in response to the work of Bertrand Russell and P. F. Strawson in the area of definite descriptions, the essay develops a distinction between the \"referential use\" and the \"attributive use\" of a definite description. The attributive use most nearly reflects Russell's understanding of descriptions. When a person uses a description such as \"Smith's murderer\" attributively, they mean to pick out the individual that fits that description, whoever or whatever it is. The referential use, on the other hand, functions to pick out who or what a speaker is talking about, so that something can be said about that person or thing.\n\n"}
{"id": "12683001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12683001", "title": "Kirchliches Handlexikon", "text": "Kirchliches Handlexikon\n\nKirchliches Handlexikon: ein Nachschlagebuch über das Gesamtgebiet der Theologie und ihrer Hilfswissenschaften is a two-volume book published in parts in Munich in 1904-12. It was compiled \"unter Mitwirkung zahlreicher Fachgelehrten in Verbindung mit den Professoren Karl Hilgenreiner, Joh. B. Nisius, S.J., und Joseph Schlecht, hrsg. von Professor Michael Buchberger\". The publisher was Allgemeine Verlags-Gesellschaft m.b.H.\n\n"}
{"id": "1119073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1119073", "title": "Legitimating ideology", "text": "Legitimating ideology\n\nA legitimating ideology, a term used by sociologists C. Wright Mills and others, refers generally to any ideology which is used to legitimate the actions or policies of states. \n\nThe legitimating ideology employed may or may not have an apparent connection to the substance or form of the actions or policies being legitimated by the ideology. It is primarily a term used when making a critical analysis of religious institutions, and corporate and state actions and policies.\n"}
{"id": "25489999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25489999", "title": "List of Armenian scientists", "text": "List of Armenian scientists\n\nThis list comprises scientists who are Armenian.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "259980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=259980", "title": "List of ethicists", "text": "List of ethicists\n\nList of ethicists including religious or political figures recognized by those outside their tradition as having made major contributions to ideas about ethics, or raised major controversies by taking strong positions on previously unexplored problems.\n\nAll are known for an ethical work or problem, but a few are primarily authors or satirists, or known as a mediator, politician, futurist or scientist, rather than as an ethicist or philosopher. Some controversial figures are included, some of whom you may see as bad examples. A few are included because their names have become synonymous with certain ethical debates, but only if they personally elaborated an ethical theory justifying their actions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42372747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42372747", "title": "Manresa Spirituality Centre", "text": "Manresa Spirituality Centre\n\nManresa Spirituality Centre () or Villa Manresa is a centre for Ignatian spirituality in the Sainte-Foy area of Quebec City. It was founded in 1891 by the Society of Jesus originally on Chemin Sainte-Foy. In 1921, it moved close to Parc des Braves. It is now situated on Louis Fréchette next to St. Charles Garnier College ()\n\nThe original Jesuit college in Quebec (which the Jesuit Chapel was originally part of) was seized by British forces in 1776. In 1891, a Jesuit priest, Fr. Edward Désy bought Teviot House on Chemin Sainte-Foy and turned it into Villa Manresa. It was to provide local individual and group retreats in Ignatian spirituality.\n\nWith the influx of people in what previously a rural area, a new chapel was built next to Villa Manresa between 1893 and 1895. It was called Our Lady of the Way (Notre-Dame-du-Chemin). With the increased urbanization of the area, the chapel became a parish church in 1909. In 1911, an annex was created connecting Villa Manresa and the church together, so that the villa could also be used as a presbytery.\n\nIn 1921, the Jesuits left the presbytery and then the church. Both were given to the Archdiocese of Quebec. They moved Villa Manresa to a site neighbouring Parc des Braves. In 1930, construction work on a new, larger, Church of Our Lady of the Way on Avenue des Érables started, so previous church and villa/presbytery were sold to the Sisters of the Holy Family of Bordeaux in 1936. The old Teviot House was demolished and a hospital was built in its place. It was called St. Anne's Hospital. In 1980 it became Courchesne Hospital. In 1986, the first Our Lady of the Way Church was also demolished.\n\nWhile this happened the Villa Manresa near Parc des Braves continued to function until 1977.\n\nThe street names in the Sainte-Foy area refer to previous locations of Villa Manresa. There is an Avenue de Manrèse behind Courchesne Hospital. Edward Désy is remembered by Avenue Désy off Chemin Sainte-Foy. There is an Avenue Casot, which refers to Jean-Joseph Casot. The previous site of Villa Manresa near Parc des Braves is indicated by the apartment blocks collectively referred to as Manresa Gardens.\n\nIn 1976, the Villa Manresa became the Ignatian Spirituality Centre and moved from Parc des Braves to Rue Nicolas Pinel, next to Cégep de Sainte-Foy, to the north of the main campus of Laval University. It also expanded its program for human and spiritual education.\n\nIn 1995, the Ignatian Spirituality Centre adopted a new constitution, restructured its programs and was renamed the Manresa Spirituality Centre.\n\nIn 1999, the Church of Our Lady of the Way on Avenue des Érables was also demolished.\n\nIn 2009, the centre moved from Rue Nicolas Pinel to a former Jesuit residence next to St. Charles Garnier College.\n\nIn 1930, the Jesuits reopened the college that is currently next door to Villa Manresa. The college was inaugurated on 30 September 1935 as the Jesuit College of St. Charles Garnier.\n\nOn 24 August 1987, the Jesuits handed the college over to a separate governing body and it was renamed St. Charles Garnier College.\n\nIn 2009, the Manresa Spirituality Centre moved next door to the college, where it continues to operate.\n\nThe centre is named after the city of Manresa in Spain, where the founder of the Jesuits, Ignatius of Loyola stayed in solitude for a year. He wrote the Spiritual Exercises which are the basis of retreats made at the centre. It teaches people to be prayer guides and spiritual directors. It also offers retreats in daily life, publishes spirituality papers as well as spiritual and human guidance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3014490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3014490", "title": "Mikhail Veller", "text": "Mikhail Veller\n\nMikhail Iosifovich Veller (also sometimes Weller; , ) (born May 20, 1948) is a Russian writer of Ukrainian Jewish extraction. He holds a dual citizenship of Russia and Estonia.\n\nVeller was born in Kamianets-Podilskyi, Ukrainian SSR, Soviet Union (modern day Ukraine) in 1948. In 1972 he graduated with a degree in linguistics from Leningrad University. He worked as a children's summer camp counselor, a hunter in Taimyr, a shepherd in the Altai mountains, a logger, a journalist, a teacher, and more - around 30 professions in all.\n\nVeller's first book, a collection of short stories titled \"I Want To Be A Yard-Sweeper\", was published in Estonia in 1983, followed by \"Heart Breaker\" (1988), \"Technology of a Short Story\" (1989), and \"Rendezvous with a Celebrity\" (1990). \"A Novel of Upbringing\" and \"Adventures of Major Zvyagin\" (1991) became bestsellers, along with \"The Legends of Nevsky Prospect\" (1993). His book \"Everything about Life\" is a book about how the world works, why a no one ever has what they need, and why happiness is not achievable but should be sought (his later book \"Cassandra\" updates this philosophy). His mini-novel \"The Knife of Seryozha Dovlatov\" created a literary scandal. Hist latest bestseller, \"Courier from Pisa\" (2000), has had 11 editions.\n\nIn \"Everything about Life\" Veller repeated Ernest Hemingway's words: \"There are people who want to know everything and those who are sick of what they already know. The latter say nothing to prevent things from turning for the worse, while the former interfere in all, hoping to make things better\" (paraphrased). Veller proclaims himself to be with the former kind.\n\nVeller nurtures his world-view to the point that he publishes volumes with philosophical inclination. He invented \"energoevolutionism\". According to this theory the primordial energy released in the Big Bang is attached to material structures of ever increasing complexity, which in their turn decompose and release energy. These cycles continue at ever increasing speed. The human existence is entangled in this process and also increases the speed of revolution. Humankind thus is at the cutting edge of the evolution of the universe. The end of history is to arrive when post-humanity will assist the release of all energy in the matter, thereby causing a new cycle by the next BIg Bang event. Within the concept of energoevolution Veller addresses also aesthetics, sociology and psychology. Veller's philosophical essays achieved some attention in Russia and abroad, but also met with severe criticism from professional philosophers.\n\nVeller has lectured on modern Russian prose in the universities of Milan, Jerusalem and Copenhagen.\n\nIn his free time, Veller lives in Moscow but continues to work in Tallinn. His hobbies include target shooting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1692791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1692791", "title": "On the Soul", "text": "On the Soul\n\nOn the Soul (Greek , \"Peri Psychēs\"; Latin \"De Anima\") is a major treatise written by Aristotle c. 350 BC. Although its topic is the soul, it is not about spirituality but rather a work in what might best be described as biopsychology, a description of the subject of psychology within a biological framework. His discussion centres on the kinds of souls possessed by different kinds of living things, distinguished by their different operations. Thus plants have the capacity for nourishment and reproduction, the minimum that must be possessed by any kind of living organism. Lower animals have, in addition, the powers of sense-perception and self-motion (action). Humans have all these as well as intellect.\n\nAristotle holds that the soul (\"psyche\", ψυχή) is the \"form\", or \"essence\" of any living thing; it is not a distinct substance from the body that it is in. It is the possession of a soul (of a specific kind) that makes an organism an organism at all, and thus that the notion of a body without a soul, or of a soul in the wrong kind of body, is simply unintelligible. (He argues that some parts of the soul — the intellect — can exist without the body, but most cannot.) It is difficult to reconcile these points with the popular picture of a soul as a sort of spiritual substance \"inhabiting\" a body. Some commentators have suggested that Aristotle's term \"soul\" is better translated as \"life-force\".\n\nIn 1855, published a translation titled On the Vital Principle. George Henry Lewes, however, found this description also wanting.\n\nThe treatise is divided into three books, and each of the books is divided into chapters (five, twelve, and thirteen, respectively). The treatise is near-universally abbreviated “DA,” for “De anima,” and books and chapters generally referred to by Roman and Arabic numerals, respectively, along with corresponding Bekker numbers. (Thus, “DA I.1, 402a1” means “De anima, book I, chapter 1, Bekker page 402, Bekker column a [the column on the left side of the page], line number 1.)\n\nDA I.1 introduces the theme of the treatise; <br>DA I.2–5 provide a survey of Aristotle’s predecessors’ views about the soul\n\nDA II.1–3 gives Aristotle’s definition of soul and outlines his own study of it, which is then pursued as follows: <br>DA II.4 discusses nutrition and reproduction; <br>DA II.5–6 discuss sensation in general; <br>DA II.7–11 discuss each of the five senses (in the following order: sight, sound, smell, taste, and touch—one chapter for each); <br>DA II.12 again takes up the general question of sensation;\n\nDA III.1 argues there are no other senses than the five already mentioned; <br>DA III.2 discusses the problem of what it means to “sense sensing” (i.e., to “be aware” of sensation); <br>DA III.3 investigates the nature of imagination; <br>DA III.4–7 discuss thinking and the intellect, or mind; <br>DA III.8 articulates the definition and nature of soul; <br>DA III.9–10 discuss the movement of animals possessing all the senses; <br>DA III.11 discusses the movement of animals possessing only touch; <br>DA III.12–13 take up the question of what are the minimal constituents of having a soul and being alive.\n\nBook I contains a summary of Aristotle's method of investigation and a dialectical determination of the nature of the soul. He begins by conceding that attempting to define the soul is one of the most difficult questions in the world. But he proposes an ingenious method to tackle the question: just as we can come to know the properties and operations of something through scientific demonstration, i.e. a geometrical proof that a triangle has its interior angles equal to two right angles, since the principle of all scientific demonstration is the essence of the object, so too we can come to know the nature of a thing if we already know its properties and operations. It is like finding the middle term to a syllogism with a known conclusion. Therefore, we must seek out such operations of the soul to determine what kind of nature it has. From a consideration of the opinions of his predecessors, a soul, he concludes, will be that in virtue of which living things have life.\n\nBook II contains his scientific determination of the nature of the soul, an element of his biology. By dividing substance into its three meanings (matter, form, and what is composed of both), he shows that the soul must be the first actuality of a naturally organised body. This is its form or essence. It cannot be matter because the soul is that in virtue of which things have life, and matter is only being in potency. The rest of the book is divided into a determination of the nature of the nutritive and sensitive souls. (1) All species of living things, plant or animal, must be able to nourish themselves and reproduce others of the same kind. (2) All animals have, in addition to the nutritive power, sense-perception, and thus they all have at least the sense of touch, which he argues is presupposed by all other senses, and the ability to feel pleasure and pain, which is the simplest kind of perception. If they can feel pleasure and pain they also have desire. Some animals in addition have other senses (sight, hearing, taste), and some have more subtle versions of each (the ability to distinguish objects in a complex way, beyond mere pleasure and pain.) He discusses how these function. Some animals have in addition the powers of memory, imagination, and self-motion.\n\nBook III discusses the mind or rational soul, which belongs to humans alone. He argues that thinking is different from both sense-perception and imagination because the senses can never lie and imagination is a power to make something sensed appear again, while thinking can sometimes be false. And since the mind is able to think when it wishes, it must be divided into two faculties: one which contains all the mind's ideas which are able to be considered, and another which brings them into act, i.e. to be actually thinking about them. These are called the possible and agent intellect. The possible intellect is an \"unscribed tablet\" and the store-house of all concepts, i.e. universal ideas like \"triangle\", \"tree\", \"man\", \"red\", etc. When the mind wishes to think, the agent intellect recalls these ideas from the possible intellect and combines them to form thoughts. The agent intellect is also the faculty which abstracts the \"whatness\" or intelligibility of all sensed objects and stores them in the possible intellect. For example, when a student learns a proof for the Pythagorean theorem, his agent intellect abstracts the intelligibility of all the images his eye senses (and that are a result of the translation by imagination of sense perceptions into immaterial phantasmata), i.e. the triangles and squares in the diagrams, and stores the concepts that make up the proof in his possible intellect. When he wishes to recall the proof, say, for demonstration in class the next day, his agent intellect recalls the concepts and their relations from the possible intellect and formulates the statements that make up the arguments in the proof.\n\nThe argument for the existence of the agent intellect in Chapter V perhaps due to its concision has been interpreted in a variety of ways. One standard scholastic interpretation is given in the \"Commentary on De anima\" begun by Thomas Aquinas when he was regent at the \"studium provinciale\" at Santa Sabina in Rome, the forerunner of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\". Aquinas' commentary is based on the new translation of the text from the Greek completed by Aquinas' Dominican associate at Viterbo William of Moerbeke in 1267. The argument, as interpreted by St Thomas Aquinas, runs something like this: in every nature which is sometimes in potency and act, it is necessary to posit an agent or cause within that genus that, just like art in relation to its suffering matter, brings the object into act. But the soul is sometimes in potency and act. Therefore, the soul must have this difference. In other words, since the mind can move from not understanding to understanding and from knowing to thinking, there must be something to cause the mind to go from knowing nothing to knowing something, and from knowing something but not thinking about it to actually thinking about it.\n\nAristotle also argues that the mind (only the agent intellect) is immaterial, able to exist without the body, and immortal. His arguments are notoriously concise. This has caused much confusion over the centuries, causing a rivalry between different schools of interpretation, most notably, between the Arabian commentator Averroes and St Thomas Aquinas. One argument for its immaterial existence runs like this: if the mind were material, then it would have to possess a corresponding thinking-organ. And since all the senses have their corresponding sense-organs, thinking would then be like sensing. But sensing can never be false, and therefore thinking could never be false. And this is of course untrue. Therefore, Aristotle concludes, the mind is immaterial.\n\nPerhaps the most important but obscure argument in the whole book is Aristotle's demonstration of the immortality of the thinking part of the human soul, also in Chapter V. Taking a premise from his \"Physics\", that as a thing acts, so it is, he argues that since the mind acts with no bodily organ, it exists without the body. And if it exists apart from matter, it therefore cannot be corrupted. And therefore the human mind is immortal.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, Aristotelian texts became re-interpreted in terms of Neoplatonism. There is a paraphrase of \"De Anima\" which survives in the Arabic tradition which reflects such a Neoplatonic synthesis. The text was translated into Persian in the 13th century. It is likely based on a Greek original which is no longer extant, and which was further syncretised in the heterogeneous process of adoption into early Arabic literature.\n\nA later Arabic translation of \"De Anima\" into Arabic is due to Ishaq ibn Hunayn (d. 910). Ibn Zura (d. 1008) made a translation into Arabic from Syriac. The Arabic versions show a complicated history of mutual influence. Avicenna (d. 1037) wrote a commentary on \"De Anima\", which was translated into Latin by Michael Scotus. Averroes (d. 1198) used two Arabic translations, mostly relying on the one by Ishaq ibn Hunayn, but occasionally quoting the older one as an alternative. Zerahiah ben Shealtiel Ḥen translated Aristotle's \"De anima\" from Arabic into Hebrew in 1284. Both Averroes and Zerahiah used the translation by Ibn Zura.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29828807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29828807", "title": "Paddle board yoga", "text": "Paddle board yoga\n\nPaddle Board Yoga is the art performing of yoga while stand up paddle surfing (SUP) usually while the board is in calm water, such as a lake. The sport combines hatha yoga and vinyasa yoga asanas, or poses, with surfing. Practitioners may practice on the beach sand or in a swimming pool to gain the strength and flexibility (anatomy) required to maintain the balance and postures on fluid water such as the ocean or a lake. Practitioners can begin by moving through a sequence of yoga postures, or asana, while standing on a normal length surfboard or a specially designed stand up paddle board.\n\nThis emerging sport was also featured in the Falcon Guide published book, \"The Art of Stand Up Paddle\".\n\nYoga has its roots in India most likely developing around the sixth and fifth centuries BCE. Paddle boarding is said to have originated in Hawaii and just in the past century has yoga become popular in America.\n\nIn the short time it has been in existence, sup yoga has now grown to become an international community being taught at the Orange Bowl Paddle Championships and Wanderlust Festival.\n\nThere has been media coverage in publications such as \"Yoga Journal\" and Today.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "7502798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7502798", "title": "Peace war game", "text": "Peace war game\n\nPeace war game is an iterated game originally played in academic groups and by computer simulation for years to study possible strategies of cooperation and aggression. As peace makers became richer over time it became clear that making war had greater costs than initially anticipated. The only strategy that acquired wealth more rapidly was a \"Genghis Khan\", a constant aggressor making war continually to gain resources. This led to the development of the \"provokable nice guy\" strategy, a peace-maker until attacked. Multiple players continue to gain wealth cooperating with each other while bleeding the constant aggressor. The Hanseatic League for trade and mutual defense appears to have originated from just such concerns about seaborne raiders.\n\nThe peace war game is a variation of the iterated prisoner's dilemma in which the decisions (Cooperate, Defect) are replaced by (Peace, War). Strategies remain the same with reciprocal altruism, \"Tit for Tat\", or \"provokable nice guy\" as the best deterministic one. This strategy is simply to make peace on the first iteration of the game; after that, the player does what his opponent did on the previous move. A slightly better strategy is \"Tit for Tat with forgiveness\". When the opponent makes war, on the next move, the player sometimes makes peace anyway, with a small probability. This allows an escape from wasting cycles of retribution, a motivation similar to the Rule of Ko in the game of Go. \"Tit for Tat with forgiveness\" is best when miscommunication is introduced, when one's move is incorrectly reported to the opponent. A typical payoff matrix for two players (A, B) of one iteration of this game is:\nHere a player's resources have a value of 2, half of which must be spent to wage war. In this case, there exists a Nash equilibrium, a mutually best response for a single iteration, here (War, War), by definition heedless of consequences in later iterations. \"Provokable nice guy's\" optimality depends on iterations. How many are necessary is likely tied to the payoff matrix and probabilities of choosing. A subgame perfect version of this strategy is \"Contrite Tit-for-Tat\" which is to make peace unless one is in \"good standing\" and one's opponent is not. Good (\"standing\" assumed) means to make peace with good opponents, make peace when bad, or make war when good and opponent is not.\n\n"}
{"id": "14500570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14500570", "title": "Pragmatic maxim", "text": "Pragmatic maxim\n\nThe pragmatic maxim, also known as the maxim of pragmatism or the maxim of pragmaticism, is a maxim of logic formulated by Charles Sanders Peirce. Serving as a normative recommendation or a regulative principle in the normative science of logic, its function is to guide the conduct of thought toward the achievement of its purpose, advising on an optimal way of \"attaining clearness of apprehension\". Here is its original 1878 statement in English when it was not yet named:\n\nIt appears, then, that the rule for attaining the third grade of clearness of apprehension is as follows: Consider what effects, that might conceivably have practical bearings, we conceive the object of our conception to have. Then, our conception of these effects is the whole of our conception of the object.\n\nPeirce stated the pragmatic maxim in many different ways over the years, each of which adds its own bit of clarity or correction to their collective corpus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996191", "title": "R. R. Rockingham Gill", "text": "R. R. Rockingham Gill\n\nRichard Rowan Rockingham Gill, (born 1944, South Africa) was a lecturer of philosophy—in particular, logic—and is an author.\n\nRockingham Gill received a MA from the University of St Andrews and has published variously in the \"Journal of Symbolic Logic\", \"Archiv für mathematische Logik und Grundlagenforschung\" (Archive for Mathematical Logic and Basic Research) and other journals.\n\nHe lectured at the University of Wales, Lampeter and is also the former head of the Department of Philosophy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6903780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6903780", "title": "Rational animal", "text": "Rational animal\n\nThe term rational animal (Latin: \"animal rationale\" or \"animal rationabile\") refers to a classical definition of humanity or human nature, associated with Aristotelianism.\n\nWhile the Latin term itself originates in scholasticism, it reflects the Aristotelian view of man as a creature distinguished by a rational principle. In the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" I.13, Aristotle states that the human being has a rational principle (Greek: λόγον ἔχον), on top of the nutritive life shared with plants, and the instinctual life shared with other animals, i. e., the ability to carry out rationally formulated projects. That capacity for deliberative imagination was equally singled out as man's defining feature in \"De anima\" III.11. While seen by Aristotle as a universal human feature, the definition applied to wise and foolish alike, and did not in any way imply necessarily the \"making\" of rational choices, as opposed to the \"ability\" to make them.\n\nThe Neoplatonic philosopher Porphyry defined man as a \"mortal rational animal\", and also considered animals to have a (lesser) rationality of their own.\n\nThe definition of man as a rational animal was common in scholastical philosophy. Catholic Encyclopedia states that this definition means that \"in the system of classification and definition shown in the Arbor Porphyriana, man is a substance, corporeal, living, sentient, and rational\".\nIn Meditation II of \"Meditations on First Philosophy\", Descartes arrives at his famous \"I think, I exist\" claim. He then goes on to wonder \"What am I?\" He considers and rejects the scholastic concept of the \"rational animal\":\nShall I say 'a rational animal'? No; for then I should have to inquire what an animal is, what rationality is, and in this one question would lead me down the slope to other harder ones.\n\nFreud was as aware as any of the irrational forces at work in humankind, but he nevertheless resisted what he called too much “stress on the weakness of the ego in relation to the id and of our rational elements in the face of the daemonic forces within us”.\n\nNeo-Kantian philosopher Ernst Cassirer, in his work \"An Essay on Man\" (1944), altered Aristotle definition to label man as a \"symbolic animal\". This definition has been influential in the field of philosophical anthropology, where it has been reprised by Gilbert Durand, and has been echoed in the naturalist description of man as the compulsive communicator.\n\nSociologists in the tradition of Max Weber distinguish rational behavior (means-end oriented) from irrational, emotional or confused behavior, as well as from traditional-oriented behavior, but recognise the wide role of all the latter types in human life.\n\nEthnomethodology sees rational human behavior as representing perhaps 1/10 of the human condition, dependent on the 9/10ths of background assumptions which provide the frame for means-end decision making.\n\nBertrand Russell satirized the concept that man is rational, saying \"Man is a rational animal — so at least I have been told. Throughout a long life I have been looked diligently for evidence in favour of this statement, but so far I have not had the good fortune to come across it.\" The humor of his observation derives from an equivocation between describing mankind as rational (i.e., that all members of the species has the potential to think, whether that potential is realized or not) and describing an individual person as rational (i.e., the person actually can think well, avoid biases, make valid inferences, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "237526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237526", "title": "Satori", "text": "Satori\n\nIn the Zen Buddhist tradition, \"satori\" refers to the experience of \"kenshō\", \"seeing into one's true nature\". \"Ken\" means \"seeing,\" \"shō\" means \"nature\" or \"essence\".\n\n\"Satori\" and \"kenshō\" are commonly translated as enlightenment, a word that is also used to translate bodhi, prajna and buddhahood.\n\nD. T. Suzuki, a Japanese author of books and essays on Buddhism, Zen and Shin that were influential in the West, described \"... looking into one's nature or the opening of satori\"; and said \"This acquiring of a new point of view in our dealings with life and the world is popularly called by Japanese Zen students 'satori' (\"wu\" in Chinese). It is really another name for Enlightenment (\"\"Annuttara-samyak-sambodhi\"\")\".\n\n\"Satori\" is often used interchangeably with \"kenshō\". \"Kenshō\" refers to the perception of the Buddha-Nature or emptiness. According to some authors, \"kenshō\" is a brief glimpse, while \"satori\" is considered to be a deeper spiritual experience.\n\nDistinct from this first insight, daigo-tettei is used to refer to a \"deep\" or lasting realization of the nature of existence.\n\nAccording to D. T. Suzuki,\n\nThis view is typical of Rinzai, which emphasizes \"satori\". The Sōtō school rejects this emphasis, and instead emphasizes \"silent illumination\" through the practice of zazen.\n\n\"Satori\" is considered a \"first step\" or embarkation toward Buddhahood:\nThe student's mind must be prepared by rigorous study, with the use of koans, and the practice of meditation to concentrate the mind, under the guidance of a teacher. Koans are short anecdotes of verbal exchanges between teachers and students, typically of the Song dynasty, dealing with Buddhist teachings. The Rinzai-school utilizes classic collections of koans such as the Gateless Gate. The Gateless Gate was assembled by the early 13th-century Chinese Zen master Wumen Hui-k'ai (無門慧開).\n\nWumen struggled for six years with koan \"Zhaozhou’s dog\", assigned to him by Yuelin Shiguan (月林師觀; Japanese: Gatsurin Shikan) (1143–1217), before attaining \"kenshō\". After his understanding had been confirmed by Yuelin, Wumen wrote the following enlightenment poem:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1815969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1815969", "title": "Seven gifts of the Holy Spirit", "text": "Seven gifts of the Holy Spirit\n\nThe Seven gifts of the Holy Spirit are an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating from patristic authors, later elaborated by five intellectual virtues and four other groups of ethical characteristics. They are: wisdom, understanding, counsel, fortitude, knowledge, piety, and fear of the Lord.\n\nThe seven gifts are found in the Book of Isaiah , where the Biblical passage refers to the characteristics of a Messianic figure understood by Christians to be Jesus Christ empowered by the \"Spirit of the Lord\".\n\nIn the Hebrew Masoretic text the \"Spirit of the Lord\" is described with six characteristics (wisdom, understanding, counsel, might, knowledge, fear of the Lord), and then the last characteristic (fear of the Lord) is mentioned a second time.\n\nIn the Greek Septuagint the first mention of the fear of the Lord is translated as \"spirit of [...] godliness\" (\"πνεῦμα\" [...] \"εὐσεβείας\").\n\nThe seven Latin terms are then: \n\nThe \"Seven Gifts of the Holy Spirit\" is one of several works in Christian devotional literature which follow a scheme of seven. Others include the seven petitions of the Lord's Prayer, the beatitudes, the seven last words from the cross, the seven deadly sins, and the seven virtues.\n\nThe seven gifts were often represented as doves in medieval texts and especially figure in depictions of the Tree of Jesse which shows the Genealogy of Jesus. For Saint Thomas Aquinas, the dove signifies by its properties each gift of the Holy Spirit.\n\nAlthough the New Testament does not refer to Isaiah 11:1-2 regarding these gifts, Roman Catholicism teaches that initiates receive them at Baptism and that they are strengthened at Confirmation, so that one can proclaim the truths of the faith: \"The reception of the sacrament of Confirmation is necessary for the completion of baptismal grace.\" For \"by the sacrament of Confirmation, [the baptized] are more perfectly bound to the Church and are enriched with a special strength of the Holy Spirit. Hence they are, as true witnesses of Christ, more strictly obliged to spread and defend the faith by word and .\"\n\nAccording to the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", these gifts \"...complete and perfect the virtues of those who receive them.\"\n\n\nIn \"Summa Theologiae\" I.II, q. 68, a1, Saint Thomas Aquinas says that four of these gifts (wisdom, understanding, knowledge, and counsel) direct the intellect, while the other three gifts (fortitude, piety, and fear of the Lord) direct the will toward God.\n\nIn some respects, the gifts are similar to the virtues, but a key distinction is that the virtues operate under the impetus of human reason (prompted by grace), whereas the gifts operate under the impetus of the Holy Spirit; the former can be used when one wishes, but the latter, according to Aquinas, operate only when the Holy Spirit wishes. In the case of Fortitude, the gift has, in Latin and English, the same name as the virtue which it is related, to but from which it must be distinguished.\n\nIn \"Summa Theologiae\" II.II, Thomas Aquinas asserts the following correspondences between the seven Capital Virtues and the seven Gifts of the Holy Spirit:\n\nTo the virtue of temperance, no Gift is directly assigned; but the gift of fear can be taken as such, since fear drives somebody to restrict himself from forbidden pleasures.\n\nThe Rev. Brian Shanley contrasts the gifts to the virtues this way: \"What the gifts do over and above the theological virtues (which they presuppose) is dispose the agent to the special promptings of the Holy Spirit in actively exercising the life of the virtues; the gifts are necessary for the perfect operations of the virtues, especially in the face of our human weakness and in difficult situations.\"\n\nSaint Augustine drew a connection between the gifts of the Holy Spirit and the Beatitudes (Matt.5:3-12).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "395965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395965", "title": "Subtle body", "text": "Subtle body\n\nA subtle body is one of a series of psycho-spiritual constituents of living beings, according to various esoteric, occult, and mystical teachings. According to such beliefs each subtle body corresponds to a subtle plane of existence, in a hierarchy or great chain of being that culminates in the physical form.\n\nAccording to \"Bhagavad Gita\", one of the most sacred texts of Hinduism, the subtle body is composed of mind, intelligence and ego, which controls the gross physical body. It is also known in other different spiritual traditions: \"the most sacred body\" (\"wujud al-aqdas\") and \"true and genuine body\" (\"jism asli haqiqi\") in Sufism, \"the diamond body\" in Taoism and Vajrayana, \"the light body\" or \"rainbow body\" in Tibetan Buddhism, \"the body of bliss\" in Kriya Yoga, and \"the immortal body\" (\"soma athanaton\") in Hermeticism. The various attributes of the subtle body are frequently described in terms of often obscure symbolism: Tantra features references to the sun and moon as well as various Indian rivers and deities, while Taoist alchemy speaks of cauldrons and cinnabar fields.\n\nThe expression \"subtile body\" appears suddenly in English literature in about 1650, appears erratically until it ceased to be used by about 1840. At that time, the more common term \"subtle body\" comes into use. The latter expression gradually gains in currency through the nineteenth century, and begins a sharp increase in usage from about 1940 until the present time. Further research is needed to clarify the actual authors who used the phrase, and what they meant by it. But the word may have a connection with the Sanskrit Sūkṣma (subtle, unmanifest, dormant) Śarīra (body) which is described in the Vedas.\n\nThe Yogic, Tantric and other systems of Hinduism, Vajrayana Buddhism, as well as Chinese Taoist alchemy contain theories of subtle physiology having a number of focal points (chakras, acupuncture points) connected by a series of channels (nadis, meridians) that convey subtle breath (prana, vayu, ch'i, ki, lung).\n\nThese invisible channels and points are understood to determine the characteristics of the visible physical form. By understanding and mastering the subtlest levels of reality one gains mastery over the physical realm. Through practice of various breathing and visualization exercises one is able to manipulate and direct the flow of vital force, to achieve supernormal powers \"(\"Sanskrit: \"siddhis)\" and attain higher states of consciousness, immortality, or liberation.\n\nEarly mentions of subtle body (Sanskrit: \"sūkṣma śarīra\") concepts appear in the Upanishads, particularly the earliest known theory appears in the Taittiriya Upanishad's (circa 4th or 5th centuries BCE) theory of five bodies or selves. The Taittiriya differentiates between five increasingly subtle body/selves: \nThe Taittiriya also contains passages which suggests a theory of a subtle internal anatomy which includes the concept of a central channel (nadi). In later Vedic texts called samhitas and brahmanas one also finds a theory of five \"winds\" or \"breaths\" (\"vayus, pranas\"):\nA millennium later, these concepts were adapted and refined by various spiritual traditions. The similar concept of the is seen as the vehicle of consciousness in later Samkhya, Vedanta, and Yoga, and is propelled by past-life tendencies, or \"bhavas\". Linga can be translated as \"characteristic mark\" or \"impermanence\" and the term Sarira (Vedanta) as \"form\" or \"mold\". \"Karana\" or \"instrument\" is a synonymous term. In the Classical Samkhya system of Isvarakrsna (ca. 4th century CE), the \"Lińga\" is the characteristic mark of the transmigrating entity. It consists of twenty-five tattvas from eternal consciousness down to the five organs of sense, five of activity (\"buddindriya\" or \"jñānendriya\", and \"karmendriya\" respectively) and the five subtle elements that are the objects of sense (\"tanmatras\") The \"Samkhyakarika\" says:\n\nThe classical Vedanta tradition developed the theory of the five bodies into the theory of the koshas \"sheaths\" or \"coverings\" which surround and obscure the self (atman). In classical Vedanta these are seen as obstacles to realization and traditions like Shankara's Advaita Vedanta had little interest in working with the subtle body.\n\nIn Tantra traditions meanwhile (Shaiva Kaula and Buddhist yoga), the subtle body was seen in a more positive light, offering potential for yogic practices which could lead to liberation. Tantric traditions contain the most complex theories of the subtle body, with sophisticated descriptions of energy nadis (literally \"stream or river\", channels through which \"vayu\" and \"prana\" flows) and chakras (lit. \"circles\") which are points of focus where nadis meet. The main channels, shared by both Hindu and Buddhist systems, are the central (in Hindu systems: \"susumna\"; in Buddhist: \"avadhuti\"), left and right (in Hindu systems: \"ida\" and \"pingala\"; Buddhist: \"lalana\" and \"rasana\"). Further subsidiary channels are said to radiate outwards from the chakras, where the main channels meet. There are various chakra systems depending on the tantra; the \"Netra tantra\" describes six chakras, the \"Kaulajñana-nirnay\"a describes eight, and the \"Kubjikamata Tantra\" describes seven (the most widely known set of chakras).\n\nIn the 19th century, Indian subtle body terminology was adopted by the Theosophy of Madame Blavatsky.\n\nThe modern Indian spiritual teacher Meher Baba stated that the subtle body \"is the vehicle of desires and vital forces,\" He held that the subtle body is one of three bodies with which the soul must cease to identify in order to realize God.\n\nIn Buddhist Tantra, the subtle body is termed the ‘innate body’\n(\"nija-deha\") or the ‘uncommon means body’ (\"asadhdrana-upayadeha\"). It is also called \"sūkṣma śarīra\", rendered in Tibetan as \"traway-lu\" (transliterated \"phra ba’i lus\"). \n\nThe subtle body consists of thousands of subtle energy channels (nadis), which are conduits for energies or \"winds\" (lung or prana) and converge at chakras. \nAccording to Dagsay Tulku Rinpoche, there are three mains channels (\"nadis\"), central, left and right; \"their beginning point is located between a person's eyebrows. From there, they run upward to the crown chakra. The passage then parallels the spine, running through all seven chakras - the centers of subtle energy - and ending about two inches below the belly button.\" \n\nBuddhist tantras generally describe four or five chakras in the shape of a lotus with varying petals. For example, the Hevajra Tantra (8th century) states:In the Center [i.e. cakra] of Creation [at the sexual organ] a sixty-four petal lotus. In the Center of Essential Nature [at the heart] an eight petal lotus. In the Center of Enjoyment [at the throat] a sixteen petal lotus. In the Center of Great Bliss [at the top of the head] a thirty-two petal lotus.In contrast, the historically later Kalachakra tantra describes six chakras.\n\nIn Vajrayana Buddhism, liberation is achieved through subtle body processes during Completion Stage practices such as the Six yogas of Naropa.\n\nH. P. Blavatsky's Theosophical teaching represented the convergence of 19th century Western occultism, Eastern philosophy, religion, science, and mysticism. \"The Secret Doctrine\", and \"The Key to Theosophy\" combined the Vedantic concept of five koshas with Western esoteric traditions (particularly Neoplatonism). She refers to three subtle bodies:\n\n\nThe \"Linga Sharira\" is the invisible double of the human body, elsewhere referred to as the etheric body, doppelgänger or bioplasmic body and serves as a model or matrix of the physical body, which conforms to the shape, appearance and condition of his \"double\". The linga sarira can be separated or projected a limited distance from the body. When separated from the body it can be wounded by sharp objects. When it returns to the physical frame, the wound will be reflected in the physical counterpart, a phenomenon called \"repercussion\". At death, it is discarded together with the physical body and eventually disintegrates or decomposes.\n\nThe mayavi-rupa is dual in its functions, being:\n\"the vehicle both of thought and of the animal passions and desires, drawing at one and the same time from the lowest terrestrial manas (mind) and Kama, the element of desire\".\n\nThe higher part of this body, containing the spiritual elements gathered during life, merges after death entirely into the causal body; while the lower part, containing the animal elements, forms the Kama-rupa, the source of \"spooks\" or apparitions of the dead.\n\nTheosophy was further systematized in the writings of C.W. Leadbeater and Annie Besant. For example, they divided Blavatsky's dual mayavi-rupa into two different bodies: the emotional and the mental bodies. They also redefined some terms. The Linga Sarira (sometimes called astral body by Blavatsky) was denominated by Annie Besant as Etheric double. C.W. Leadbeater, regarding the emotional body as the seat of the kamic principle of Blavatsky's constitution, denominated it astral body. Therefore, the subtle bodies in a human being are:\n\n\nEach \"body\" has its own aura and set of chakras, and corresponds to a particular plane of existence.\n\nThe later Theosophical arrangement was taken up by Alice Bailey, and from there found its way (with variations) into the New Age worldview. It is also associated with the human aura observed through Kirlian photography and Kilner screens. The anthroposophical view of the human being found in Rudolf Steiner's Anthroposophical teachings usually referred to only the Etheric and Astral Bodies. However, Steiner also used a threefold classification of body, soul, and spirit as well as a sevenfold and a ninefold description.\n\nMax Heindel divided the subtle body into: Vital Body made of Ether, our instrument for specializing the vital energy of the sun, seen by clairvoyant vision to extend about an inch and a half outside the body; the Desire body, which is our emotional nature and pervades both the vital and dense bodies, seen by clairvoyant vision to extend about 16 inches outside our visible body, related to the Desire World; and the Mental body, which functions like a mirror, reflects the outer world and enables the Ego to transmit its commands as thought, word and action. The human being is seen as a threefold Spirit, possessing a Mind by which he governs the threefold Body that he transmutes into a threefold Soul. The Human Spirit aspect has emanated from itself the desire body to be transmuted into the Emotional Soul; the Life Spirit aspect has emanated from itself the vital body to be transmuted into the Intellectual Soul; the Divine Spirit aspect has emanated from itself the dense body to be transmuted into the Conscious Soul.\n\nSamael Aun Weor wrote extensively on the subtle vehicles, organizing them in accordance with the kabbalistic Tree of Life. The common person only contains the lunar vehicles of emotion (astral body), thought (mental body), and will (causal body), concentrations of the collective animalistic intelligence, the evolution of the Essence through the mineral, plant and animal kingdoms. Becoming human means to have a soul, a Solar Astral Body, Solar Mental Body and Solar Causal Body. These bodies are constructed through a form of Tantra called White tantrism.\n\nBarbara Brennan's account of the subtle bodies in her books \"Hands of Light\" and \"Light Emerging\" refers to the subtle bodies as \"layers\" in the \"Human Energy Field\" or aura. Causality proceeds downwards: each of the layers has its own characteristics and can have its own expression of disease, requiring individual healing. As with the Adyar arrangement, each body or aura also has its own complement of chakras, which interrelate to those in the other layers.\n\nMichal Levin describes the relationship between the energy bodies and the chakras in her book Meditation, Path to the Deepest Self.\n\nAn interesting variant on the concept of subtle bodies is found in both Alchemical Taoism and the \"Fourth Way\" teachings of Gurdjieff and Ouspensky, where it is said that one can create a subtle body, and hence achieve post-mortem immortality, through spiritual or yogic exercises. The \"soul\" then is not something one is born with, but something that one has to develop through esoteric practice.\n\nAccording to (Rosenthal, 1997) \"In Gurdjieff's cosmology our nature is tripartite and is composed of the physical (planetary), emotional (astral) and mental (spiritual) bodies; in each person one of these three bodies ultimately achieves dominance.\" The Fourth way as taught by Gurdjieff and Ouspensky is a philosophy of developing the divine body which is gained when one has complete understanding and self perfection. The ultimate task of the fourth way teachings is to harmoniously develop the four bodies into a single way.\n\nThe work of the \"Body of Light\" was part of English author and occultist Aleister Crowley's system of magick, saying in his \"Magick (Book 4)\" that it must be developed by rigid discipline, including rituals and the \"assumption of god-forms\", as well as by practice and experience.\n\nFrom Crowley's \"Magick Without Tears\" (Ch. 81):\n\n\"One passes through the veil of the exterior world (which, as in Yoga, but in another sense, becomes \"unreal\" by comparison as one passes beyond) one creates a subtle body (instrument is a better term) called the body of Light; this one develops and controls; it gains new powers as one progresses, usually by means of what is called \"initiation:\" finally, one carries on almost one's whole life in this Body of Light, and achieves in its own way the mastery of the Universe.\"\n\n\n\nOther topics\n\n"}
{"id": "40251468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40251468", "title": "The Three Rs", "text": "The Three Rs\n\nThe Three Rs (3Rs) in relation to science are guiding principles for more ethical use of animals in testing. They were first described by W. M. S. Russell and R. L. Burch in 1959. The 3Rs are: \n\nThe 3Rs have a broader scope than simply encouraging alternatives to animal testing, but aim to improve animal welfare and scientific quality where the use of animals cannot be avoided. In many countries, these 3Rs are now explicit in legislation governing animal use.\n\nIt is usual to capitalise the first letter of each of the three 'R' principles (i.e. 'Replacement' rather than 'replacement') to avoid ambiguity and clarify reference to the 3Rs principles.\n\nIn 1954, the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare (UFAW) decided to sponsor systematic research on the progress of humane techniques in the laboratory. In October of that year, William Russell, described as a brilliant young zoologist who happened to be also a psychologist and a classical scholar, and Rex Burch, a microbiologist, were appointed to inaugurate a systematic study of laboratory techniques in their ethical aspects. In 1956, they prepared a general report to the Federation's committees, and this report formed the nucleus of the book which was completed at the beginning of 1958. Over much of the period they worked with a special Consultative Committee, chaired by Professor P.B. Medawar.\n\nAs a contribution to the centenary of \"The Origin of Species\", the quotations at the head of each chapter are all from the works of Charles Darwin.\n\nA common misconception of the 3Rs is that they refer only to replacement; however, their scope is much broader.\n\nReplacement:\nIn the original book, the 3Rs were restricted, arbitrarily, to vertebrates. Russell and Burch discussed the possibility of suffering with reference to sentience. They used the term \"replacement technique\" for any scientific method using non-sentient material to replace methods which use conscious living vertebrates. This non-sentient material included higher plants, microorganisms, and the more degenerate metazoan endoparasites which, they argued, had nervous and sensory systems that were almost atrophied. They acknowledged that the arbitrary exclusion of invertebrates meant that in several contexts, these species could be considered as possible replacements for vertebrate subjects; they termed this \"comparative substitution\". Russell and Burch also considered levels of replacement. In \"relative replacement\", animals are still required, though during an experiment they are exposed, probably or certainly, to no distress at all. In \"absolute replacement\", animals are not required at all at any stage.\n\nReplacement strategies include:\nMore recent interpretations of the replacement principle suggest the preferred use of non-animal methods over animal methods whenever it is possible to achieve the same scientific aims, i.e. invertebrates are not considered suitable replacements for vertebrates. However, others such as the National Centre for Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs) advocate the use of some invertebrates in replacement studies.\n\nReduction: Reduction refers to methods which minimise the number of animals used per study. Russell and Burch suggested a reduction in the number of animals used could be achieved in several ways. One general way in which great reduction may occur is by the right choice of strategies in the planning and performance of whole lines of research. A second method is by controlling variation amongst the animals used in studies, and a third method is careful design and analysis of studies.\nWith the advent, development and availability of computers since the original 3Rs, large data-sets can be used in statistical analysis, thereby reducing the numbers of animals used. In some cases, by using previously published studies, the use of animals can be totally avoided by avoiding unnecessary replication. Modern imaging techniques in conjunction with new statistical analysis methods also allow reductions in the numbers of animals used, for example, by providing greater information per animal.\n\nRefinement: \nRussell and Burch wrote \"Suppose, for a particular purpose, we cannot use replacing techniques. Suppose it is agreed that we shall be using every device of theory and practice to reduce to a minimum the number of animals we have to employ. It is at this point that refinement starts, and its object is simply to reduce to an absolute minimum the amount of distress imposed on those animals that are still used.\" Amongst areas of experiments that can be refined are the procedure to be used, the appropriateness of the species (its suitability for the procedure and its responses to a laboratory environment in general). \nRefinements techniques may include: \n\nThe definition of Refinement has evolved from that provided by Russell and Burch. A newer definition is now commonly accepted, \"any approach which avoids or minimises the actual or potential pain, distress and other adverse effects experienced at any time during the life of the animals involved, and which enhances their wellbeing\". Refinement encompasses not only the direct harms associated with animal use, but the indirect, or contingent harms associated with breeding, transportation, housing and husbandry.\n\nSome have criticized the Three Rs for what they call \"ambiguities\" and tensions in the understanding and implementation of different prongs of the approach –Refinement, Reduction and Replacement. This is, in part, because different stakeholders (e.g. animal experimenters, institutional figures, policy makers, activists and the public) may interpret the Three Rs differently. The 3Rs principles do not address some issues, such as the ethics of using animals in research and focus instead on improving the humane use of animals which are used.\n\nOthers have noted that promotion of the 3Rs has failed to reduce the number of animals used in experiments. However, this may be the result of a misunderstanding of the definition of 'Reduction', not an absolute reduction in the number of animals used, but a reduction in the number of animals used per study. By its nature, it is difficult to estimate the number of animals not used in scientific procedures as a result of Replacement or Reduction techniques however, despite the rapid increases in medical research, animal numbers have not increased at the same rate.\n\nIn a review of dozens of articles involving mice in prolonged pain experiments, researchers found \"there were no references to the \"3Rs\"\" which in turn \"raise serious questions about whether the 3Rs' principles of Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement are being appropriately implemented by researchers and institutions\". The researchers continued, \"That the 3Rs or any of the 3Rs' components—Replace, Reduce, or Refine—were not mentioned in any of the... studies suggests that prolonged mouse pain researchers may be unaware of or indifferent to the 3Rs framework and that this aspect is not considered relevant in the peer review process of manuscripts for scientific journals... [T]he growing proportion of the number of studies...in this paper suggests that adherence to guidelines and/or animal use committee requirements is not translating into significant progress from a reduction or replacement perspective\". Following a review of the quality of experimental design in published journal articles, including the use of the 3Rs, it was found that the use and reporting of these principles was sporadic. As a result, the ARRIVE (Animal Research: Reporting of \"In Vivo\" Experiments) guidelines were developed and published in 2010. The ARRIVE guidelines present a 20-point list of items which must be reported in publications which have used animals in scientific research, including sample size calculations, explicit descriptions of the environmental enrichment employed and welfare-related assessments made during the study. Many journals now require authors to comply with the ARRIVE guidelines in the preparation of manuscripts. A follow-up review published in 2014 found that there were still low reporting levels of some elements, such as reporting of appropriate statistical methods and the avoidance of bias.\n\nIn a survey of scientists in Portugal who had recently undergone training in the Three Rs, researchers found that a \"surprisingly large number of researchers were unaware of the 3Rs principle, even those who had worked with animal models for over 10 years\" and that subsequent training in the Three Rs \"did not change perceptions on the current and future needs for animal use in research\", but did increase knowledge of the application of the 3Rs The authors found that the training they provided \"appear to have little influence on researchers' acceptance of replacement alternatives to animal use\".\n\nThe Home Office (UK) led the Inter-Departmental Group on Reduction, Refinement and Replacement, which aims to improve the application of the 3Rs and promote research into alternatives, reducing the need for toxicity testing through better sharing of data, and encouraging the validation and acceptance of alternatives. The Data Sharing Group drafted the Inter-Departmental Data Sharing Condordat published in August 2000 and was re-formed in June 2002 to consider the scope for the greater application of the 3Rs. Arising from the Government response to the report of the House of Lords Select Committee on animals in scientific procedures, the Group was asked to explore the scope for a UK centre for research into the 3Rs. The Group reported to Ministers that there was support for a body which would act as a means to better publicise and coordinate what is already done by way of research into the 3Rs. In May 2004, the NC3Rs was announced in the UK to act as a focal point for research into the 3Rs. Although the principles of the 3Rs were implicit in UK law under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act (1986), the Directive 2010/63/EU governing animal use within the European Union <ref name=\"2010/63/EU\">http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32010L0063&from=EN| Directive 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes</ref> makes the principles explicit and researchers must demonstrate the use of Replacement, Reduction and Refinement techniques in research involving animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "58074709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58074709", "title": "Thoditthalai Viluthandinar", "text": "Thoditthalai Viluthandinar\n\nThoditthalai Viluthandinar (Tamil: தொடித்தலை விழுத்தண்டினார்) was a poet of the Sangam period, to whom a sole verse of the Sangam literature has been attributed, in addition to verse 22 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\nThoditthalai Viluthandinar was came to be called so owing to the phrase \"Thoditthalai Vilutthandu\" used in the verse that he composed in Purananuru. This was the only verse that describes the boisterous acts of young men.\n\nThoditthalai Viluthandinar has written a sole Sangam verse, namely, verse 243 of the Purananuru, apart from verse 22 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\n"}
{"id": "26619048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26619048", "title": "Tom Campbell (philosopher)", "text": "Tom Campbell (philosopher)\n\nThomas (Tom) Douglas Campbell is a Scottish philosopher and jurist. He has held academic positions in Scotland and Australia, and is currently a professorial fellow of the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (CAPPE) in Canberra.\n\nCampbell studied mental philosophy at the University of Glasgow, graduating M.A. with first class honours in 1962, and received a Snell Exhibition to study theology at Balliol College, Oxford, graduating in 1964. He then returned to Glasgow to study for a Ph.D., with a thesis entitled, \"Adam Smith and the Sociology of Morals\", whilst lecturing in the university on social and political philosophy. His Ph.D. was awarded in 1969.\n\nCampbell left Glasgow in 1973 to become professor of philosophy at the recently established University of Stirling, returning in 1979 as professor of jurisprudence.\n\nIn 1990, Campbell left Scotland for Australia, to become professor of law at the Australian National University, serving as dean of the Faculty of Law from 1994 to 1997. He retired in 2001 and is currently a professorial fellow at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (CAPPE), a joint venture of the Australian National University, Charles Sturt University and University of Melbourne, and director of the Charles Sturt University Division of the centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "33825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33825", "title": "Wole Soyinka", "text": "Wole Soyinka\n\nAkinwande Oluwole Babatunde Soyinka (Yoruba: \"Akinwándé Oluwo̩lé Babátúndé S̩óyinká\" (born 13 July 1934), known as Wole Soyinka (), is a Nigerian playwright, poet and essayist. He was awarded the 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature, the first African to be honoured in that category.\n\nSoyinka was born into a Yoruba family in Abeokuta. After studying in Nigeria and the UK, he worked with the Royal Court Theatre in London. He went on to write plays that were produced in both countries, in theatres and on radio. He took an active role in Nigeria's political history and its struggle for independence from Great Britain. In 1965, he seized the Western Nigeria Broadcasting Service studio and broadcast a demand for the cancellation of the Western Nigeria Regional Elections. In 1967 during the Nigerian Civil War, he was arrested by the federal government of General Yakubu Gowon and put in solitary confinement for two years.\n\nSoyinka has been a strong critic of successive Nigerian governments, especially the country's many military dictators, as well as other political tyrannies, including the Mugabe regime in Zimbabwe. Much of his writing has been concerned with \"the oppressive boot and the irrelevance of the colour of the foot that wears it\". During the regime of General Sani Abacha (1993–98), Soyinka escaped from Nigeria on a motorcycle via the \"NADECO Route.\" Abacha later proclaimed a death sentence against him \"in absentia.\" With civilian rule restored to Nigeria in 1999, Soyinka returned to his nation.\n\nIn Nigeria, Soyinka was a Professor of Comparative Literature (1975 to 1999) at the Obafemi Awolowo University, then called the University of Ife. With civilian rule restored to Nigeria in 1999, he was made professor emeritus. While in the United States, he first taught at Cornell University as Goldwin Smith professor for African Studies and Theatre Arts from 1988-1991 and then at Emory University where in 1996 he was appointed Robert W. Woodruff Professor of the Arts. Soyinka has been a Professor of Creative Writing at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas and has served as scholar-in-residence at NYU’s Institute of African American Affairs and at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, California, US. He has also taught at the universities of Oxford, Harvard and Yale. Soyinka was also a Distinguished Scholar in Residence at Duke University in 2008.\n\nIn December 2017, he was awarded the Europe Theatre Prize in the \"Special Prize\" category awarded to someone who has “contributed to the realisation of cultural events that promote understanding and the exchange of knowledge between peoples”.\n\nA descendant of a Remo family of Isara-Remo, Soyinka was born the second of six children, in the city of Abẹokuta, Ogun State in Nigeria, at that time a British dominion. His father, Samuel Ayodele Soyinka (whom he called S.A. or \"Essay\"), was an Anglican minister and the headmaster of St. Peters School in Abẹokuta. Soyinka's mother, Grace Eniola Soyinka (whom he dubbed the \"Wild Christian\"), owned a shop in the nearby market. She was a political activist within the women's movement in the local community. She was also Anglican. As much of the community followed indigenous Yorùbá religious tradition, Soyinka grew up in a religious atmosphere of syncretism, with influences from both cultures. He was raised in a religious family, attending church services and singing in the choir from an early age; however Soyinka himself became an atheist later in life. His father's position enabled him to get electricity and radio at home.\nHe writes extensively about his childhood in one of his memoirs, \"\" (1981).\n\nHis mother was one of the most prominent members of the influential Ransome-Kuti family: she was the daughter of Rev. Canon J. J. Ransome-Kuti, and sister to Olusegun Azariah Ransome-Kuti, Oludotun Ransome-Kuti and sister in-law to Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti. Among Soyinka's cousins were the musician Fela Kuti, the human rights activist Beko Ransome-Kuti, politician Olikoye Ransome-Kuti and activist Yemisi Ransome-Kuti.\n\nIn 1940, after attending St. Peter's Primary School in Abeokuta, Soyinka went to Abeokuta Grammar School, where he won several prizes for literary composition. In 1946 he was accepted by Government College in Ibadan, at that time one of Nigeria's elite secondary schools.\n\nAfter finishing his course at Government College in 1952, he began studies at University College Ibadan (1952–54), affiliated with the University of London. He studied English literature, Greek, and Western history. Among his lecturers was Molly Mahood, a British literary scholar. In the year 1953–54, his second and last at University College, Soyinka began work on \"Keffi's Birthday Treat\", a short radio play for Nigerian Broadcasting Service that was broadcast in July 1954. While at university, Soyinka and six others founded the Pyrates Confraternity, an anti-corruption and justice-seeking student organisation, the first confraternity in Nigeria.\n\nLater in 1954, Soyinka relocated to England, where he continued his studies in English literature, under the supervision of his mentor Wilson Knight at the University of Leeds (1954–57). He met numerous young, gifted British writers. Before defending his B.A., Soyinka began publishing and worked as an editor for the satirical magazine \"The Eagle\". He wrote a column on academic life, often criticising his university peers.\n\nAfter graduating, Soyinka remained in Leeds with the intention of earning an M.A. degree. He intended to write new works combining European theatrical traditions with those of his Yorùbá cultural heritage. His first major play, \"The Swamp Dwellers\" (1958), was followed a year later by \"The Lion and the Jewel\", a comedy that attracted interest from several members of London's Royal Court Theatre. Encouraged, Soyinka moved to London, where he worked as a play reader for the Royal Court Theatre. During the same period, both of his plays were performed in Ibadan. They dealt with the uneasy relationship between progress and tradition in Nigeria.\n\nIn 1957, his play \"The Invention\" was the first of his works to be produced at the Royal Court Theatre. At that time his only published works were poems such as \"The Immigrant\" and \"My Next Door Neighbour\", which were published in the Nigerian magazine \"Black Orpheus\". This was founded in 1957 by the German scholar Ulli Beier, who had been teaching at the University of Ibadan since 1950.\n\nSoyinka received a Rockefeller Research Fellowship from University College in Ibadan, his alma mater, for research on African theatre, and he returned to Nigeria. After its fifth issue (November 1959), Soyinka replaced Jahnheinz Jahn to become coeditor for the literary periodical \"Black Orpheus\" (its name derived from a 1948 essay by Jean-Paul Sartre, \"Orphée Noir\", published as a preface to \"Anthologie de la nouvelle poésie nègre et malgache\", edited by Léopold Senghor). He produced his new satire, \"The Trials of Brother Jero\". His work \"A Dance of The Forest\" (1960), a biting criticism of Nigeria's political elites, won a contest that year as the official play for Nigerian Independence Day. On 1 October 1960, it premiered in Lagos as Nigeria celebrated its sovereignty. The play satirizes the fledgling nation by showing that the present is no more a golden age than was the past. Also in 1960, Soyinka established the \"Nineteen-Sixty Masks\", an amateur acting ensemble to which he devoted considerable time over the next few years.\n\nSoyinka wrote the first full-length play produced on Nigerian television. Entitled \"My Father’s Burden\" and directed by Segun Olusola, the play was featured on the Western Nigeria Television (WNTV) on 6 August 1960. Soyinka published works satirising the \"Emergency\" in the Western Region of Nigeria, as his Yorùbá homeland was increasingly occupied and controlled by the federal government. The political tensions arising from recent post-colonial independence eventually led to a military coup and civil war (1967–70).\n\nWith the Rockefeller grant, Soyinka bought a Land Rover, and he began travelling throughout the country as a researcher with the Department of English Language of the University College in Ibadan. In an essay of the time, he criticised Leopold Senghor's Négritude movement as a nostalgic and indiscriminate glorification of the black African past that ignores the potential benefits of modernisation. He is often quoted as having said, \"A tiger doesn't proclaim his tigritude, he pounces.\" But in fact, Soyinka wrote in a 1960 essay for the \"Horn\": \"the duiker will not paint 'duiker' on his beautiful back to proclaim his duikeritude; you’ll know him by his elegant leap.\" In \"Death and the King Horsemen\" he states: \"The elephant trails no tethering-rope; that king is not yet crowned who will peg an elephant.\"\n\nIn December 1962, Soyinka's essay \"Towards a True Theater\" was published. He began teaching with the Department of English Language at Obafemi Awolowo University in Ifẹ. He discussed current affairs with \"négrophiles,\" and on several occasions openly condemned government censorship. At the end of 1963, his first feature-length movie, \"Culture in Transition\", was released. In April 1964 \"The Interpreters\", \"a complex but also vividly documentary novel\", was published in London.\n\nThat December, together with scientists and men of theatre, Soyinka founded the Drama Association of Nigeria. In 1964 he also resigned his university post, as a protest against imposed pro-government behaviour by the authorities. A few months later, in 1965, he was arrested for the first time, charged with holding up a radio station at gunpoint (as described in his 2006 memoir \"You Must Set Forth at Dawn\") and replacing the tape of a recorded speech by the premier of Western Nigeria with a different tape containing accusations of election malpractice. Soyinka was released after a few months of confinement, as a result of protests by the international community of writers. This same year he wrote two more dramatic pieces: \"Before the Blackout\" and the comedy \"Kongi’s Harvest.\" He also wrote \"The Detainee\", a radio play for the BBC in London. His play \"The Road\" premiered in London at the Commonwealth Arts Festival, opening on 14 September 1965 at the Theatre Royal. At the end of the year, he was promoted to headmaster and senior lecturer in the Department of English Language at University of Lagos.\n\nSoyinka's political speeches at that time criticised the cult of personality and government corruption in African dictatorships. In April 1966, his play \"Kongi’s Harvest\" was produced in revival at the World Festival of Negro Arts in Dakar, Senegal. \"The Road\" was awarded the Grand Prix. In June 1965, he produced his play \"The Lion and The Jewel\" for Hampstead Theatre Club in London.\n\nAfter becoming chief of the Cathedral of Drama at the University of Ibadan, Soyinka became more politically active. Following the military coup of January 1966, he secretly and unofficially met with the military governor Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu in the Southeastern town of Enugu (August 1967), to try to avert civil war. As a result, he had to go into hiding.\nHe was imprisoned for 22 months as civil war ensued between the federal government and the Biafrans. Though refused materials such as books, pens, and paper, he still wrote a significant body of poems and notes criticising the Nigerian government.\n\nDespite his imprisonment, in September 1967, his play, \"The Lion and The Jewel,\" was produced in Accra. In November \"The Trials of Brother Jero\" and \"The Strong Breed\" were produced in the Greenwich Mews Theatre in New York. He also published a collection of his poetry, \"Idanre and Other Poems\". It was inspired by Soyinka's visit to the sanctuary of the Yorùbá deity Ogun, whom he regards as his \"companion\" deity, kindred spirit, and protector.\n\nIn 1968, the Negro Ensemble Company in New York produced \"Kongi’s Harvest\". While still imprisoned, Soyinka translated from Yoruba a fantastical novel by his compatriot D. O. Fagunwa, entitled \"\".\n\nIn October 1969, when the civil war came to an end, amnesty was proclaimed, and Soyinka and other political prisoners were freed. For the first few months after his release, Soyinka stayed at a friend's farm in southern France, where he sought solitude. He wrote \"The Bacchae of Euripides\" (1969), a reworking of the Pentheus myth. He soon published in London a book of poetry, \"Poems from Prison\". At the end of the year, he returned to his office as Headmaster of Cathedral of Drama in Ibadan.\n\nIn 1970, he produced the play \"Kongi’s Harvest\", while simultaneously adapting it as a film of the same title. In June 1970, he finished another play, called \"Madman and Specialists\". Together with the group of 15 actors of Ibadan University Theatre Art Company, he went on a trip to the United States, to the Eugene O'Neill Memorial Theatre Center in Waterford, Connecticut, where his latest play premiered. It gave them all experience with theatrical production in another English-speaking country.\n\nIn 1971, his poetry collection \"A Shuttle in the Crypt\" was published. \"Madmen and Specialists\" was produced in Ibadan that year. Soyinka travelled to Paris to take the lead role as Patrice Lumumba, the murdered first Prime Minister of the Republic of the Congo, in the production of his \"Murderous Angels\". His powerful autobiographical work \"The Man Died\" (1971), a collection of notes from prison, was also published.\n\nIn April 1971, concerned about the political situation in Nigeria, Soyinka resigned from his duties at the University in Ibadan, and began years of voluntary exile. In July in Paris, excerpts from his well-known play \"The Dance of The Forests\" were performed.\n\nIn 1972, he was awarded an Honoris Causa doctorate by the University of Leeds. Soon thereafter, his novel \"Season of Anomy\" (1972) and his \"Collected Plays\" (1972) were both published by Oxford University Press. In 1973 the National Theatre, London, commissioned and premiered the play \"The Bacchae of Euripides\". In 1973 his plays \"Camwood on the Leaves\" and \"Jero's Metamorphosis\" were first published. From 1973 to 1975, Soyinka spent time on scientific studies. He spent a year as a visiting fellow at Churchill College Cambridge University 1973-74 and wrote \"Death and the King's Horseman\", which had its first reading at Churchill College (which Dapo Ladimeji and Skip Gates attended), and gave a series of lectures at a number of European universities.\n\nIn 1974, his \"Collected Plays, Volume II\" was issued by Oxford University Press. In 1975 Soyinka was promoted to the position of editor for \"Transition\", a magazine based in the Ghanaian capital of Accra, where he moved for some time. He used his columns in \"Transition\" to criticise the \"negrophiles\" (for instance, his article \"Neo-Tarzanism: The Poetics of Pseudo-Transition\") and military regimes. He protested against the military junta of Idi Amin in Uganda. After the political turnover in Nigeria and the subversion of Gowon's military regime in 1975, Soyinka returned to his homeland and resumed his position at the Cathedral of Comparative Literature at the University of Ife.\n\nIn 1976, he published his poetry collection \"Ogun Abibiman\", as well as a collection of essays entitled \"Myth, Literature and the African World\". In these, Soyinka explores the genesis of mysticism in African theatre and, using examples from both European and African literature, compares and contrasts the cultures. He delivered a series of guest lectures at the Institute of African Studies at the University of Ghana in Legon. In October, the French version of \"The Dance of The Forests\" was performed in Dakar, while in Ife, his \"Death and The King’s Horseman\" premièred.\n\nIn 1977, \"Opera Wọnyọsi\", his adaptation of Bertolt Brecht's \"The Threepenny Opera\", was staged in Ibadan. In 1979 he both directed and acted in Jon Blair and Norman Fenton's drama \"The Biko Inquest\", a work based on the life of Steve Biko, a South African student and human rights activist who was beaten to death by apartheid police forces. In 1981 Soyinka published his autobiographical work \"\", which won a 1983 Anisfield-Wolf Book Award.\n\nSoyinka founded another theatrical group called the Guerrilla Unit. Its goal was to work with local communities in analysing their problems and to express some of their grievances in dramatic sketches. In 1983 his play \"Requiem for a Futurologist\" had its first performance at the University of Ife. In July, one of Soyinka's musical projects, the Unlimited Liability Company, issued a long-playing record entitled \"I Love My Country\", on which several prominent Nigerian musicians played songs composed by Soyinka. In 1984, he directed the film \"Blues for a Prodigal\"; his new play \"A Play of Giants\" was produced the same year.\n\nDuring the years 1975–84, Soyinka was also more politically active. At the University of Ife, his administrative duties included the security of public roads. He criticized the corruption in the government of the democratically elected President Shehu Shagari. When he was replaced by the general Muhammadu Buhari, Soyinka was often at odds with the military. In 1984, a Nigerian court banned his 1971 book \"The Man Died\". In 1985, his play \"Requiem for a Futurologist\" was published in London by André Deutsch.\n\nSoyinka was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1986, becoming the first African laureate. He was described as one \"who in a wide cultural perspective and with poetic overtones fashions the drama of existence\". Reed Way Dasenbrock writes that the award of the Nobel Prize in Literature to Soyinka is \"likely to prove quite controversial and thoroughly deserved\". He also notes that \"it is the first Nobel Prize awarded to an African writer or to any writer from the 'new literatures' in English that have emerged in the former colonies of the British Empire.\" His Nobel acceptance speech, \"This Past Must Address Its Present\", was devoted to South African freedom-fighter Nelson Mandela. Soyinka's speech was an outspoken criticism of apartheid and the politics of racial segregation imposed on the majority by the Nationalist South African government. In 1986, he received the Agip Prize for Literature.\n\nIn 1988, his collection of poems \"Mandela's Earth, and Other Poems\" was published, while in Nigeria another collection of essays entitled \"Art, Dialogue and Outrage: Essays on Literature and Culture\" appeared. In the same year, Soyinka accepted the position of Professor of African Studies and Theatre at Cornell University. In 1990, a third novel, inspired by his father's intellectual circle, \"Isara: A Voyage Around Essay\", appeared. In July 1991 the BBC African Service transmitted his radio play \"A Scourge of Hyacinths\", and the next year (1992) in Siena (Italy), his play \"From Zia with Love\" had its premiere. Both works are very bitter political parodies, based on events that took place in Nigeria in the 1980s. In 1993 Soyinka was awarded an honorary doctorate from Harvard University. The next year another part of his autobiography appeared: \"Ibadan: The Penkelemes Years (A Memoir: 1946–1965)\". The following year his play \"The Beatification of Area Boy\" was published. In October 1994, he was appointed UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador for the Promotion of African culture, human rights, freedom of expression, media and communication.\n\nIn November 1994, Soyinka fled from Nigeria through the border with Benin and then to the United States. In 1996 his book \"The Open Sore of a Continent: A Personal Narrative of the Nigerian Crisis\" was first published. In 1997 he was charged with treason by the government of General Sani Abacha. The International Parliament of Writers (IPW) was established in 1993 to provide support for writers victimized by persecution. Soyinka became the organization's second president from 1997 to 2000. In 1999 a new volume of poems by Soyinka, entitled \"Outsiders\", was released. That same year, a BBC-commissioned play called \"Document of Identity\" aired on BBC Radio 3, telling the lightly-fictionalized story of the problems his daughter's family encountered during a stopover in Britain when they fled Nigeria for the US in 1997; her baby was born prematurely in London and became a stateless person.\n\nHis play \"King Baabu\" premièred in Lagos in 2001, a political satire on the theme of African dictatorship. In 2002 a collection of his poems, \"Samarkand and Other Markets I Have Known\", was published by Methuen. In April 2006, his memoir \"You Must Set Forth at Dawn\" was published by Random House. In 2006 he cancelled his keynote speech for the annual S.E.A. Write Awards Ceremony in Bangkok to protest the Thai military's successful coup against the government.\n\nIn April 2007, Soyinka called for the cancellation of the Nigerian presidential elections held two weeks earlier, beset by widespread fraud and violence. In the wake of the Christmas Day (2009) bombing attempt on a flight to the US by a Nigerian student who had become radicalised in Britain, Soyinka questioned the United Kingdom's social logic that allows every religion to openly proselytise their faith, asserting that it is being abused by religious fundamentalists thereby turning England into a cesspit for the breeding of extremism. He supported the freedom of worship but warned against the consequence of the illogic of allowing religions to preach apocalyptic violence.\n\nIn August 2014, Soyinka delivered a recording of his speech \"From Chibok with Love\" to the World Humanist Congress in Oxford, hosted by the International Humanist and Ethical Union and the British Humanist Association. The Congress theme was \"Freedom of thought and expression: Forging a 21st Century Enlightenment\". He was awarded the 2014 International Humanist Award. He served as scholar-in-residence at NYU’s Institute of African American Affairs.\n\nSoyinka opposes allowing Fulani herdsmen the ability to graze their cattle on open land in southern, Christian-dominated Nigeria and believes these herdsmen should be declared terrorists to enable the restriction of their movements.\n\nSoyinka has been married three times and divorced twice. He has children from his three marriages. His first marriage was in 1958 to the late British writer, Barbara Dixon, whom he met at the University of Leeds in the 1950s. Barbara was the mother of his first son, Olaokun. His second marriage was in 1963 to Nigerian librarian Olaide Idowu, with whom he had three daughters, Moremi, Iyetade (deceased), Peyibomi, and a second son, Ilemakin. Soyinka married Folake Doherty in 1989.\n\nIn 2014, he revealed his battle with prostate cancer.\n\nThe Wole Soyinka Annual Lecture Series was founded in 1994 and \"is dedicated to honouring one of Nigeria and Africa’s most outstanding and enduring literary icons: Professor Wole Soyinka\". It is organised by the National Association of Seadogs (Pyrates Confraternity). Wole Soyinka with six other students founded the organisation in 1952 at the then University College Ibadan.\n\nIn 2011, the African Heritage Research Library and Cultural Centre built a writers' enclave in his honour. It is located in Adeyipo Village, Lagelu Local Government Area, Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria. The enclave includes a Writer-in-Residence Programme that enables writers to stay for a period of two, three or six months, engaging in serious creative writing. In 2013, he visited the Benin Moat as the representative of UNESCO in recognition of the Naija seven Wonders project. He is currently the consultant for the Lagos Black Heritage Festival, with the Lagos State deeming him as the only person who could bring out the aims and objectives of the Festival to the people.\n\nIn 2014, the collection \"Crucible of the Ages: Essays in Honour of Wole Soyinka at 80\", edited by Ivor Agyeman-Duah and Ogochwuku Promise, was published by Bookcraft in Nigeria and Ayebia Clarke Publishing in the UK, with tributes and contributions from Nadine Gordimer, Toni Morrison, Ama Ata Aidoo, Ngugi wa Thiong’o, Henry Louis Gates, Jr, Margaret Busby, Kwame Anthony Appiah, Ali Mazrui, Sefi Atta, and others.\n\nPlays\n\n\nNovels\n\n\nShort stories\n\n\nMemoirs\n\n\nPoetry collections\n\n\nEssays\n\n\nMovies\n\n\nTranslations\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4205520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4205520", "title": "World Conference against Racism 2001", "text": "World Conference against Racism 2001\n\nThe 2001 World Conference against Racism (WCAR), also known as Durban I, was held at the Durban International Convention Centre in Durban, South Africa, under UN auspices, from 31 August to 8 September 2001.\n\nThe conference covered several controversial issues, including redress for transatlantic slavery and the Second-class citizenry issue in Palestine-Israel. The language of the final Declaration and Programme of Action produced by the conference was strongly disputed in these areas, both in the preparatory meetings in the months that preceded the conference and during the conference itself.\n\nTwo delegations, the United States and Israel, withdrew from the conference over objections to a draft document equating Zionism with racism. The final Declaration and Programme of Action did not contain the text that the U.S. and Israel had objected to, that text having been voted out by delegates in the days after the U.S. and Israel withdrew.\n\nIn parallel to the conference, a separately held NGO Forum also produced a Declaration and Programme of its own, that was not an official Conference document, which contained language relating to Israel that the WCAR had voted to exclude from its Declaration, and which was criticized by then United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson and many others.\n\nThe NGO Forum ended in discord. Mary Robinson lost the support of the United States in her office of High Commissioner, and many of the potential political aftereffects of the conference were annulled by the September 11, 2001 attacks. The attacks took place just three days after the conference ended, entirely eclipsing it in the news, and significantly affecting international relations and politics. The conference was followed by the 2009 Durban II conference in Geneva, which was boycotted by ten western countries. A commemorative Durban III conference in September 2011 in New York has also drawn significant criticism and was boycotted by 14 western countries.\n\nThe conference was authorized by United Nations General Assembly Resolution #52/111. Prior to the conference various preparatory meetings (PrepComs) were held in order to identify conference themes and to create initial drafts of the Declaration and Programme of Action. These PrepComs encountered difficulties from the start.\n\nThe first problem was the question of what the conference theme was to be. The Western European states, along with the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, all wanted the conference objectives to be those given in the authorizing resolution. The Africa Group, the Latin American states, and the Caribbean states wanted the conference objectives to go beyond what was in the resolution, and include items dealing with regional, national, and international measures for compensation for colonialism and slavery.\n\nPrior to the conference, there were also four Regional Conferences, in Strasbourg, Santiago, Dakar, and Tehran.\n\nThe Durban Declaration and Programme of Action was adopted by the governmental delegates attending the Conference at the International Convention Centre.\n\nThe issue of Compensation for Colonialism and Slavery is addressed in ¶ 13, ¶ 14, ¶ 15, and ¶ 29 of the Declaration. It was one of the most controversial issues debated at the conference, one that had the potential to derail the entire conference. It was dealt with cleverly in the Declaration, containing rhetoric that satisfied the African bloc, without applying retroactively against the descendants of colonizers the principle of crimes against humanity and without establishing a clear responsibility for reparations on the parts of former colonial states.\n\nThe wording of the Declaration struck a delicate balance. Whilst acknowledging historic and contemporary practices of slavery and the slave trade as morally outrageous, and something that would be a crime against humanity today, it did not apply that legal principle to an era before the principle actually existed.\n\nOne of the contentious points at the conference related to the issue was that of apartheid. During the preparatory processes of the conference, South Africa stressed that it did not want to link compensation to apartheid. At the Tehran Regional Conference, a paragraph making such a link was inserted by Asian governments. This was deleted at the request of the South African delegation. Linking compensation to apartheid had the potential to polarize South African society, and produce the same effects as had the controversial land reform programmes in Zimbabwe. Domestic political pressures, and the aim of the South African government to foster reconciliation within the country, made South Africa's position difficult.\n\nThe issue of compensation was thus a complex one, that was exacerbated by the President of Senegal, Abdoulaye Wade, calling campaigns to demand compensation for colonialism and slavery \"childish\".\n\nThe earliest point at which the issue of compensation caused problems was during preparations in May 2001, when delegations came to the decision of where to place it on the agenda. At the time, the fourth item on the agenda, out of five items, was \"Provision of effective remedies, recourses, redress, compensatory, and other measures, at the national, regional, and international levels\". The European Union, represented by Portugal, wanted to place the entire language in brackets. The United States just wanted to place the word \"compensatory\" in brackets. The African Group, Armenia, and Cuba strongly objected to both proposals, with the African Group stating that if the topic were placed in brackets, they would move for the entire text to be placed in brackets also. In the end, the U.S. proposal was adopted, with the addition of a statement in the report indicating the different perspectives on the exact meaning of those brackets. Western European states discussed informally amongst themselves, outside of the formal preparatory proceedings, what measures and levels of non-cöoperation they might adopt if the issue of compensation gained momentum at Durban itself.\n\nBefore the conference, the debate over compensation was seen as dealing with the transatlantic slave trade, and the colonization of Africa by Europeans, thus pitting Western European states (including the former colonial powers of Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom) and the United States against the African Group. The African Group was supported by Asia, Latin America, and the Caribbean.\n\nPrior to the conference, on 2001-08-03, the African Group circulated a Non-Paper on the \"Injustices of the Past\", containing strong language but a generally moderate position. To this paper the E.U. responded, on 2001-08-08, with a Non-Paper of its own that addressed most, but not all, of the issues in the African Group's paper. The United States circulated a Non-Paper as well, but this turned out to be less helpful than the E.U. one.\n\nThe African Group circulated a second Non-Paper on 2001-09-03 that was substantially stronger than its earlier one, with language shifts from \"debt cancellation\" to \"immediate and unconditional cancellation of debt\", emphasis upon crimes against humanity, and calls for reparation (something which the earlier paper had not included in part because of a U.S. demand, made at a preparatory meeting in Geneva, that such language be excluded from the text).\n\nSeveral members of the African Group openly opposed calling for reparations. President Wade stated \"We still suffer the effects of slavery and colonialism, and that cannot be evaluated in monetary terms. I find that not only absurd, but insulting.\". Similarly, South Africa was more interested in devoting time and effort to more pragmatic ends, such as Western aid for the Millennium Africa Recovery Programme, which would be more palatable to the U.S. and the E.U.\n\nA consensus on the reparations issue was reached by late August. On 2001-08-24 President of the United States George W. Bush announced in a press conference that \"the reparations issue has been solved — at least the last information I had was that the issue has … looks like it has been resolved\", albeit that news media at the time failed to realize the significance of the comment. The U.S. walked out of the conference a few weeks later.\n\nDuring preparatory meetings in Geneva, text that linked Zionism to racism was placed in brackets, with the expectation that it would be replaced by text that referred to violations of the rights of Palestinians. The U.S. had already threatened to boycott the conference should the conference draft documents include text that could be in any way interpreted as linking Zionism to racism. Mary Robinson had also said that regional political conflicts should not be imposed upon the agenda of the conference. The Australian, the Canadian, and some European delegations shared the U.S. view.\n\nThe Arab position was stated by the Secretary General of the Arab League, Amr Moussa: \"Israel's racist actions against the Palestinian people have to be dealt with in an international conference that aims to eradicate racism. Arab countries are not expecting the Durban conference to be a venue for dealing with the Arab- Israeli peace process, but they certainly expect that the Israeli racist practices against the Palestinian people will not be overlooked.\"\n\nThe Arab delegates were not insistent upon language that specifically equated Zionism with racism. It had been suggested that they were trying to revive United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379 (issued 1975, annulled 1991) which stated that \"Zionism is a form of racism.\". Their position was that they were, rather, trying to underline that the actions being committed by Israel against Palestinians were racist.\n\nThis stance was in part influenced by the U.S. threat of boycott, which would have made it impractical to insist upon harsh language condemning Israel or equating the suffering of the Palestinians with that of holocaust victims. According to one Arab diplomat, no Arab state except for Syria had insisted upon any language linking Israel to racist practices.\n\nAt the start of the Geneva meeting, text had been presented that comprised six bracketed paragraphs dealing with \"Zionist racist practices\", including an appeal for Israel \"to revise its legislation based on racial or religious discrimination such as the law of return and all the policies of an occupying power which prevent the Palestinian refugees and displaced persons from returning to their homes and properties\", and a suggestion for the need \"to bring the foreign occupation of Jerusalem by Israel together with all its racist practices to an end\".\n\nBy the end of the meeting, all of this text had either been removed or toned down. One such phrase removed was a mention of \"holocausts\" suffered by other peoples, which had been seen as an affront to the memory of the Jewish victims of the Nazi holocaust. South African diplomats had already told Arab and Muslim countries that they would have to offer text that could describe the current situation without using such language as \"ethnic cleansing practices against Palestinians\".\n\nNonetheless, the United States, objecting to the remaining text, decided to send a low-level delegation, headed by Ambassador Michael Southwick, to the Conference, rather than have United States Secretary of State Colin Powell attend himself. German officials criticized this decision, and the United States Congressional Black Caucus urged him to attend. The Anti-Defamation League urged him to stay away.\n\nOn September 3, 2001, after four days of deadlocked negotiations that did not reach agreement on language, the United States and Israeli delegations withdrew from the conference. Both United States Secretary of State Colin Powell and Foreign Affairs Minister of Israel Shimon Peres stated that this was done with regret.\n\nThis decision was criticized by several people, including Jesse Jackson and President of South Africa Thabo Mbeki, both of whom stated their opinions that it had been a mistake by the United States to send a low-level delegation to the conference in the first place, and Amnesty International, which stated that the U.S. was \"letting down victims of racism\". Jackson had been involved in earlier attempts to create compromise language.\n\nThe low-level U.S. delegation had kept a low profile throughout conference proceedings until that point, with delegates working quietly in sub-committee meetings, without (unlike in earlier conferences) giving news briefings or off the record statements to journalists, to change the text of the draft declaration, to make it less forceful and less specific against Israel, and to bring it into line with U.S. foreign policy goals with respect to the International Criminal Court (see United States and the International Criminal Court) by removing language that strengthened the ICC.\n\nThe draft documents had stated \"deep concern\" at the \"increase of racist practices of Zionism and anti-Semitism\" and talked of the emergence of \"movements based on racism and discriminatory ideas, in particular the Zionist movement, which is based on racial superiority\". Alternative proposals, which the U.S. had supported, from Norway, acting as a mediator, and Canada were rejected by Israel.\n\nDespite Colin Powell's denunciation of the \"hateful language\" that \"singles out only one country in the world, Israel, for censure and abuse\" in the draft text and U.S. delegate Tom Lantos's statement that the conference had been \"wrecked by Arab and Islamic extremists\", some saw the U.S. delegation's withdrawal as not being entirely related to the language on Israel, but attributed it also, in part, to a reluctance on the part of the U.S. to address the issue of slavery.\n\nThe withdrawal of, the U.S. and Israel was taken as a warning by many delegates that there was a strong possibility of Canada and the E.U. states withdrawing as well if no compromise was reached. Several reports had the Europeans staying on solely in order to help South Africa salvage the Conference. After the withdrawal, senior conference officials became highly involved in the rewriting of the Declaration — something that critics maintained they should have also been doing before that point.\n\nIn the end, the Conference delegates voted to reject the language that implicitly accused Israel of racism, and the document actually published contained no such language.\n\nSeveral countries were unhappy with the final text's approach to the subject, but all for different reasons. Syria and Iran were unhappy because their demands for the language about racism and Israel had been rejected by the Conference, the latter continuing its insistence that Israel was a racist state. Australia was unhappy with the process, observing that \"far too much of the time at the conference [had been] consumed by bitter divisive exchanges on issues which have done nothing to advance the cause of combating racism\". Canada was also unhappy.\n\nThe language of the final text was carefully drafted for balance. The word \"diaspora\" is used four times, and solely to refer to the African Diaspora. The document is at pains to maintain a cohesive identity for everyone of African heritage as a victim of slavery, even including those who may have more European than African ancestors. The \"victim\" or \"victims\" of racism and slavery (the two words occurring 90 times in the document) are defined in only the most general geographic terms. The word \"Jewish\" is only used once, alongside \"Muslim\" and \"Arab\", and \"anti-Semitism\" is only used twice, once alongside its assumed counterpart of \"Islamophobia\" and once alongside \"anti-Arabism\". The difficulty that this generates is that it is politically impossible to act when the 219 calls for action in the Programme are couched in such generalities that only the \"countless human beings\" that the document explicitly talks of can be identified.\n\nSeparate from the actual Conference itself was an NGO Forum, held in the nearby Kingsmead Stadium in Durban, that ran from 2001-08-28 to 2001-09-01. This was a forum of 3,000 NGOs, attended by 8,000 representatives. It, too adopted a Declaration. However, this was not an official document of the WCAR and was not issued as such.\n\nThe Forum's proceedings were highly disorganized, with several NGO delegates walking out of the Forum, to the jeers of other delegates, and ending in discord; and the resultant declaration had 62 paragraphs of introduction, followed by a document that appeared to commentators as being the result of every lobby putting its pet aversions in. It described Israel as a \"racist, apartheid state\" that was guilty of \"racist crimes including war crimes, acts of genocide and ethnic cleansing\". The document was not intended to be presented to the Conference, although a copy of it was intended to be handed over, as a symbolic gesture, to the Conference secretary-general, Mary Robinson, at the conclusion of the Forum. Ms Robinson refused to accept the document, citing concerns over its language. In a later interview she said of the whole conference that \"there was horrible anti-Semitism present — particularly in some of the NGO discussions. A number people said they've never been so hurt or so harassed or been so blatantly faced with an anti-Semitism.\" The Palestinian Solidarity Committee of South Africa reportedly distributed copies of the antisemitic forgery \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\".\n\nCritics described the description of Israel as apartheid as the \"Durban Strategy\". They claim that this comparison was made with the intention of causing and encouraging divestment from and boycott of Israel.\n\nThe NGO Forum was attended by U.S. NGOs, with financial support from the Rockefeller Foundation, the MacArthur Foundation, and the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation. The Ford Foundation provided USD10 million in support to the WCAR and the NGO Forum. These NGOs provided research assistance at the Forum and helped to develop declarations and resolutions that dealt with the issue of compensation for slavery.\n\nThe resolutions adopted by the Forum dealing with reparations for slavery dealt only with the transatlantic slave trade, and did not mention the traffic in African slaves to Islamic lands in the Middle East. The Forum also called upon the United States to ratify all major human rights treaties that had already been ratified.\n\nOne such treaty was the UN Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD), which the U.S. had ratified in 1994, but (per the Supremacy Clause of Article Six of the United States Constitution, which does not permit treaties to override the Constitution) had attached a reservation that its ratification did not accept treaty requirements that were incompatible with the Constitution of the United States. The NGOs, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, demanded that U.S. drop its reservations and \"comply\" with the treaty. The U.S. Department of State had noted specifically that CERD's restrictions on freedom of speech and freedom of assembly were incompatible with the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The United States was far from the only such country to do so, however. Incompatibility of the treaty with national constitutions, including the freedoms of assembly and speech guaranteed by those constitutions, is also noted by Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, France, Guyana, Jamaica, Japan, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Switzerland, and Thailand. Several, including France, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malta, Monaco, Nepal, the United Kingdom, note that they consider the provisions of the treaty to be restricted by and subject to the freedoms of speech and assembly set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nOne commentator noted that in order to comply with the interpretation of CERD created by the NGOs at the Forum, the United States would have to \"turn its political and economic system, together with their underlying principles, upside down — abandoning the free speech guarantees of the Constitution, bypassing federalism, and ignoring the very concept of majority rule, since practically nothing in the NGO agenda is supported by the [U.S.] electorate\", stating that these NGOs were \"a new challenge to liberal democracy\" that contested the principles of individual rights, democratic representation, and national citizenship, along with contesting the very idea of a liberal democratic nation-state.\n\nOther NGO demands included demands for:\n\nTom Lantos assigns the blame for the withdrawal of the U.S. in part to the radicalism of many of the NGOs at the NGO Forum, to an inadequate response thereto by U.S.-based NGOs, and to the reluctance of the U.S.'s European allies to take a strong stand.\n\nThe Conference was largely overshadowed in the news and in international affairs by the September 11, 2001 attacks, which occurred 3 days after the Conference ended.\n\nAs a consequence of the Conference, the United States did not support the continuation of Mary Robinson as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, where once U.S. President Bill Clinton had called her a \"splendid choice\" for the post and the U.S. had considered her its favorite candidate for the job. She stepped down from the post in September 2002.\n\nMany faults were attributed to Ms Robinson, with cumulative effect on the U.S. position. Some people stated that she lacked mediation and bureaucratic experience, and thus was unable to resolve sensitive issues at the Conference. News reports attributed her differences with the U.S. to four things: First, her views on the Israel-Palestine conflict differed from U.S. policy. Second, the U.S. did not approve of the detached way in which she acted as secretary-general to the Conference. Third, she had openly criticized the U.S. on various matters including the treatment of prisoners at Camp X-Ray, the \"unsigning\" of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court by the U.S., and the administration of capital punishment in the United States. Fourth, she had opposed U.S. calls to reform the election process of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.\n\nTom Lantos himself did not assign sole or even primary blame to Robinson for the breakdown of U.S. relations with the conference. That he assigned to the NGOs, as aforementioned, and to the member states of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. Moreover, several people have defended Robinson's secretary-generalship of the conference.\n\nSeveral NGOs, including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, and the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, disassociated themselves from the language of the NGO Forum's Declaration that dealt with Israel and with Jews.\n\nIt seems unlikely to analysts that the United States will support another WCAR. However, the Declaration and Programme of Action did make provision for follow-up mechanisms. Mary Robinson stated in her closing address that the Conference was intended to be a beginning, not an end. Dr. Manning Marable, of Columbia University in New York, pointed out that one of the objectives of the Conference was to increase coordination in human rights activities, and to strengthen networks amongst those combating racism; and as such the actions of governments in response to the Conference are not the sole intended outcomes — actions by civil society and non-governmental agencies are also required.\n\nOne such follow up provision is for national governments to provide the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights with reports on their actions towards implementing the recommendations in the Programme of Action. Another is for the Secretary General of the United Nations to appoint an expert body with the remit of following up on implementation. A third is a call for the establishment of a database of practical means for addressing racism, racial discrimination, and related intolerance.\n\nA Permanent Memorial Trust Fund has also been established for the creation of a memorial at the New York United Nations site. The sculpture, to be titled the Permanent Memorial to the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade, or the UN Slavery Memorial, is set to be completed in 2012.\n\nBy resolution #2002/68 of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights an Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action was established, which held its first meeting in January 2003 and which meets on an annual basis.\n\nIn resolution #61/149 of the United Nations General Assembly, passed in 1996, a Durban Review Conference was called. The conference took place in 2009, however, a number of countries expressed concern as a result of the 2001 conference. Some countries, including Australia, Canada, Germany, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, and the United States, boycotted the conference. The Czech Republic discontinued its attendance on the first day, and twenty-three other European Union countries sent low-level delegations. In an 18 April 2009 speech, President Barack Obama announced the United States' boycott of the 2009 Durban Review Conference, reaffirming the country's opposition to language perceived as anti-Israel and anti-Western.\n\nUnited Kingdom and other European countries remain undecided. On 17 February 2009, Foreign Office Minister Lord Malloch-Brown said: \"If we can’t go forward now, we will withdraw. I was at the first conference. I have never seen such a disgraceful event in quite a long international life.\"\n\nThe Institute for Global Jewish Affairs was founded, in part, as a response to the perceived Anti-Semitism of the Durban conference.\n\nBernard-Henri Lévy credits the conference with being one of the inspirations for his book, \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
